The Chosen Path
Tahirih of Persia and Her
Search for God


By
Hussein Ahdieh
and
Hillary Chapman

The Chosen Path
Tahirih of Persia and Her Search for God

By Hussein Ahdieh & Hillary Chapman

Publisher: CreateSpace, an Amazon Company
Available through Amazon.com and other channels


Copyright © 2020 by Hussein Ahdieh.
All rights reserved.

Dedicated to junior youth
everywhere
who strive
for the betterment of the world

Tablet from the Bab concerning the station of Tahirih.
The Bab refers to Tahirih as a proof of God and as “the pure” and
“the truthful one.”

Table of Contents
Introduction ..................................................................................................... 1
Prologue ............................................................................................................ 4
Chapter 1 ~ Family ......................................................................................... 5
Chapter 2 ~ Marriage .................................................................................. 10
Chapter 3 ~ Karbila ..................................................................................... 12
Chapter 4 ~ Shaykhism ............................................................................... 14
Chapter 5  ~ The Promised One ............................................................... 17
Chapter 6 ~ Tahirih’s Dream ..................................................................... 20
Chapter 7 ~ Tahirih, the Pure One ........................................................... 23
Chapter 8 ~ Tahirih Unloosed ................................................................... 27
Chapter 9 ~ Murder ..................................................................................... 31
Chapter 10 ~ The Trial of the Bab ............................................................ 35
Chapter 11 ~ Badasht .................................................................................. 39
Chapter 12 ~ Taken Prisoner ..................................................................... 43
Chapter 13 ~ Martyrdom of the Bab ........................................................ 46
Chapter 14 ~ Martyrdom of Tahirih ......................................................... 49
Questions by Chapter for Further Thinking ............................................ 52
Endnotes ........................................................................................................ 56

The Chosen Path

Introduction
By Thomas Grant, Junior Youth From Atlanta

In 1817 a little girl was born who would change the world. Later in
her life, she would be called Tahirih, which means “The Pure One” in
Arabic. This name was given to her by the Blessed Beauty and the
Promised One of all ages, Baha'u'llah.
Tahirih was one of the eighteen “Letters of the Living”—the first
to recognize the Bab. The Bab means “The Gate” in Persian. The Bab
was the Trumpet Blast announcing Baha’u’llah’s Revelation.
God sends humanity Divine Messengers to teach mankind how to
develop spiritual qualities and how to contribute to the advancement of
society. These messengers are like a new springtime for the world.
These Manifestations have come by the names of Abraham, Krishna,
Zoroaster, Moses, Buddha, Jesus Christ, Muhammad and now the Bab
and Baha’u’llah. But when messengers come with a new message for a
new day, governments and religious leaders of the time are afraid of
losing their power and attack the new religion and its Manifestation
with all their might.
It was the same with the Bab and Baha’u’llah. The religious leaders
and the government of Persia (now Iran) were afraid of the new age
and teachings the Bab and Baha’u’llah brought. So, they used the full
extent of their power to extinguish the teachings of the Twin
Manifestations.
The Bab and Baha’u’llah suffered every day of their lives. Their
followers were tortured and killed because they would not recant their
faith.
The Bab Himself was also martyred in the city of Tabriz by a firing
squad of seven hundred and fifty guns in a public square. His last
words before the guns fired at Him and His young companion were
“Had you believed in Me, O Wayward generation, every one of you
would have followed the example of this youth, who stood in rank
above most of you, and willingly would have sacrificed himself in My
path. The day will come when you will have recognized Me; that day I
shall have ceased to be with you.”

The Chosen Path

The Bab’s body was shattered that day in Tabriz and after forty
years of exile, Baha’u’llah passed away peacefully many years later, but
to the present, Their Spirits live on. Today there are followers of The
Bab and Baha’u’llah all over the world known as Bahá'ís. The Bahá'í
Faith is currently the most widespread religion in the world after
Christianity.
In 1844, six years before the Bab’s martyrdom, when Tahirih was
twenty-seven years old, she recognized the Bab in a dream. In this
dream, she saw Him praying devoutly to God. Tahirih was confirmed
of His Station when she read some Writings revealed by the Bab and
recognized that they were the same words that she had heard the Bab
recite in her dream. Her brother-in-law also met and recognized the
Bab. He gave the Bab a letter from Tahirih in which she declared that
she was ready to accept the Bab’s truth and teachings. The Bab then
named her as one of his Letters of the Living.
Some years later during a conference of Babis (followers of the
Bab) in the town of Badasht, Tahirih entered the meeting without the
traditional veil which women were required to wear. Tahirih
proclaimed that it was a new day. Those present were stunned and
afraid of this act by Tahirih and the message she was announcing; that
men and women are created equal and that the Bab’s Teachings
represented a New Day in human history.
By reading the story of Tahirih, junior youth and youth will be
inspired to follow in her footsteps and contribute to the betterment of
society and advancement of civilization. Even though Tahirih’s
environment during her time was quite different from junior youth and
youth today, there are still valuable lessons that one can find in
Tahirih’s story to help us in our day to day lives. Society sees junior
youth as being self-absorbed, unresponsive, problematic and lost in the
transition between an adult and a child. But the Baha’i teachings
explain that this time in someone's life is vital and can shape their
future. It is a time where one’s spiritual understanding is the clearest
and a time that can be used to serve the world.
Tahirih was persecuted by many people, including her own family,
who tried to shake her of her belief. Even when her father-in-law and
husband attempted to kill her, she still stayed strong in her faith and
continued to spread the Words of God.

The Chosen Path

Tahirih became a famous Persian poet and wrote many poems that
talked about the teachings of God and her spiritual journey.
Tahirih would teach thousands of people about the Babi Faith and
its teachings of how all people were created equal. People would draw
to her like a spiritual magnet and their lives would be changed forever.
One day when Tahirih was under house arrest at the mayor’s house
in the city of Tehran, the mayor’s wife came to see her. She saw Tahirih
beautifully dressed as if she was ready to meet her Beloved. Tahirih
told the mayor’s wife that when she was killed, she would like to be
thrown into a pit and covered with earth and stones. Tahirih then
prayed and fasted.
After sunset, soldiers came to the mayor's house to take Tahirih
away. She came out dressed in her finest clothes, as if she was going to
an event with great importance. The soldiers brought her to a garden
outside the city and strangled her with a silk scarf. She was thrown into
a pit and covered with earth and stones. Before she was killed Tahirih
announced, “You can kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop
the emancipation of women.”
Tahirih’s story is an example for everyone—young and old—of
how nothing can shake one’s beliefs and a story of how one person
changed the world.



Thomas Grant, Atlanta, 2019
The authors would especially like to thank Linda Ahdieh Grant,
Tatiana Jordan, and Robert Hanevold for their valuable assistance, and
Simina Rahmatian for her artwork.

The Chosen Path

Prologue
Do you have dreams? What if you had a dream that was telling you
something important? Would you believe it? What if everyone else
disagreed with what you believed?
This is what happened to the young lady in this story.
She had studied the holy books of the past and had come to
understand on her own how God was truly working in the world. She
believed God was speaking again, this time through a young merchant
who claimed that he was the Messenger of God.
But very, very few people agreed with her. Most of her family
members did not and several of them were even very angry with her…
This young woman, though, had confidence in her own thoughts.
She used the intelligence God had given her and the education her
family had provided her.
When she tried to speak out about these new ideas, she faced
another huge challenge: she was a woman. Only men were allowed to
speak and teach in public.
Still, she persisted. She spoke in public from behind a curtain when
men were present. Everywhere she went, she challenged powerful men
to debates. She even stood up to the King and his ministers.
What do you think happened to her? Do you think she succeeded?

The Chosen Path

Chapter 1 ~ Family
Tahirih loved to walk freely through the large rooms of her family’s
house. Her favorite room was the library because it was filled with
books.
She loved to read. She was talented and eager to learn. She would
grow up to become a great writer and one of the leaders of a new
religion.
But this would not be easy. She would have to struggle and
persevere. Persia was still a traditional society. Women had to follow
strict rules which governed their lives. Men were the leaders in society.
Only they could be public figures and have a life outside of the home.
Women’s lives were spent within the family and the home.
If a woman needed to go outside to the market, for example, she
had to be covered in a chador, a large cloth that was usually black and
covered her head and body. Her face had to be hidden behind a veil,
which was a piece of thin material.
Wearing some form of veil was an ancient tradition in this part of
the world that continues to this day. Covering a woman’s face was
meant to preserve her honor. No man was allowed to see her face
except the men in her family and her husband. This was especially true
for women of noble birth. But these veils were also used to keep
women separate and under the control of men.
In the house, women had their own private area. The women could
relax there, take off their chadors and veils, and speak freely.
Men represented the house to the outside world. Only they could
act as a host when a male visitor came over. The guest would be
received in a special room which had the best rugs and furnishings. The
women could only come in and greet the visitor when a man of the
family was present.
Fortunately for Tahirih, her father wanted his daughters to be
educated. Tahirih attended the girls’ section of the school which he had
founded. Girls and boys were educated separately and were not allowed
to mix in school.
Most girls in Persia never got anything more than a basic education
if anything at all. Girls learned from their mothers what they needed to

The Chosen Path

know for life. Much of this learning had to do with their future
responsibilities in the home as wives and mothers. Girls who came
from privileged families would be able to study for more years.
Tahirih was from one such family. Her relatives all supported her
education. Several of her female relatives were well-educated. If her
mother and aunt had been men, they would have been considered as
knowledgeable as the most learned of mullas; the title mulla meant
‘priest’, someone who could lead the prayers in the mosque.
Tahirih studied Persian literature and poetry with her mother.
Persians had been writing great literature for more than 2,500 years.
Rumi, Ferdowsi, and Hafez were three of the most famous Persian
poets. There was a lot for Tahirih to read!
The men in her family taught her the Qur’an, religious law, Islamic
traditions, and various branches of philosophy, the study of knowledge.
The Qur’an is the Holy Book of Islam and contains 114 chapters of
different lengths, some are quite long while others are short. Tahirih
was able to memorize the entire Qur’an at an early age, an
accomplishment only the most able students could achieve.
Tahirih learned a great deal about the religion of Islam and its rich,
centuries-old traditions. It began over a thousand years before she was
born, when God chose Muhammad to be His Messenger.
The Prophet Muhammad came from a humble background. He
worked as a merchant leading camel caravans between towns. He
taught that everyone should worship the one God and perform five
duties: to say that there was only one God and Muhammad was His
Messenger, to pray five times a day, to give to the poor, to fast once a
year for forty days, and to make a pilgrimage to Mecca, the city near to
where God first spoke to Muhammad. Those to whom Muhammad
gave these Teachings spoke Arabic. The Arabic word for ‘God’ is
Allah.
The words God spoke to Muhammad were written down. They
were compiled into a book called the Qur’an, an Arabic word meaning
‘the Recitation’. There are also many stories about Muhammad and the
important things which he said and did which are called the Traditions,
or hadiths.

The Chosen Path

Islam became the religion of many different cultures and nations so
new laws were developed based on the Qur’an by great thinkers who
wrote books of Islamic Law and philosophy.
Tahirih was so bright that she ended up being a teacher for her
sisters as well. Her brother said later that she was by far the most
intelligent and able of the children in the family:
“We were all, her brothers and cousins, fearful to speak in her
presence, so much did her knowledge intimidate us, and if we
hazarded to put forward an opinion on a point of doctrine that
was in dispute, she would prove to us where we were going
wrong in a manner so clear, precise and magisterial that we
were thrown into confusion and withdrew.”1
Tahirih was the eldest of the seven daughters of her father Mulla
Salih who also had eight sons. He was able to have so many children
because he was permitted by law to have more than one wife. The
Qur’an allowed this because many women and children had been left
without protection when their men were killed in battle during the days
of the Prophet Muhammad. Since there weren’t enough men for
women, Muhammad allowed a man to take another woman as his wife
which protected her and her orphaned children. A Muslim could marry
up to four wives—men in that part of the world married more in those
days—only if he could treat of them all fairly. If he could not, he would
have to limit himself to one.
Tahirih’s father like her mother was highly educated. He had been
able to receive the title of mujtahid because he was a man. Women were
not allowed to be mujtahids.
A mujtahid was a religious judge. This was a highly respected
position in Persia. To achieve this position, a man had to study for
many years.
People came to them when they had serious disputes with each
other. The judges would hear their cases and render verdicts on them.
So their decisions could really affect people’s lives. Mujtahids could also
become wealthy: people paid them to hear their cases, students paid to
study with them, and villagers paid them rent to use land they owned.
Tahirih’s father and her two uncles, the eldest Mulla Taqi, and the
youngest, Mulla Ali, were all mujtahids.

The Chosen Path

The eldest uncle, Mull Taqi, was greedy for power and influence.
He had married one of the daughters of the king so he could become
close to him. In Qazvin he had gotten rich by entering into business
deals that were sometimes shady, by pocketing the proceeds from sales
of land that no longer had owners, and by charging for his services as a
judge even for matters for which payment was not usually required.
Though he had become one of the richest clerics in the kingdom this
way, 2 he was not well-liked because of these practices.
Mullah Salih did not seek power. Instead he was interested in
developing his school which attracted hundreds of students.
The youngest brother, Mullah Ali, taught at this school and was
interested in mystical philosophy. Mysticism is the belief that one can
be united with God through meditation and contemplation. Ali could
be an ascetic, meaning very strict with himself about his spiritual
practices such as prayer and study, to the point where he was rumored
to chain himself to a wall so he could stay awake and study.3
Tahirih showed so much talent that her father wished she had been
born a boy so that she could have been a mujtahid and his successor.
These men would play very important roles in her life: one would
try to destroy her while others would introduce her to new, forbidden
knowledge.

The Chosen Path


Tahirih Studying with her Sister and Mother at Their Home in Qazvin.
Painting by Simina Rahmatian

The Chosen Path

Chapter 2 ~ Marriage
When Tahirih was a teenager, her family decided she would be
married to her cousin, Mulla Muhammad, the son of her uncle Taqi.
In those days, parents arranged the marriages of their children.
Young people did not go out on dates together, hold hands, kiss, or
give each other presents. This would have been considered highly
inappropriate. A boy and a girl only really got to know each other after
they were married.
Though people did love one another, the needs of the family were
considered much more important than a person’s romantic feelings.
What was important was that the bride or groom come from a ‘good’
family—one with a good reputation and which was known to have
good morals and possess some wealth and land.
Parents tried to find the best match for their child. They hoped that
with a good match, their own family’s social and economic situation
would improve.
If parents were poor it was much harder to make a good match for
marriage. The parents of a girl had to pay a dowry—money or property
which a bride brought into a marriage—and the smaller of a dowry the
family could give the bride for her marriage, the less other families
would want their sons to marry her. The dowry was meant as a form of
security for the bride as she went into her new marriage but, usually,
the husband simply took it for his and his own family’s use.
When a child was born, many special prayers were offered.
Camphor, a white substance found in oils, might be burned, and
sometimes a note with a quotation from the Qur’an used as a
talisman—a special object used to bring good luck—might be pinned
to the baby’s clothing. These and other traditions were done to protect
the child from evil spirits and harm.
Back in those days, there were no vaccinations because these had
not been discovered yet. Babies and young children died of all kinds of
illnesses and diseases for which we have medicines today—measles,
flus, mumps, and many others. A significant percentage of young
children died. Childbirth was dangerous for the mothers as well
because they could catch infections from which they died.

The Chosen Path

The child was named on a special day on which the men of the
family gathered with the local mulla and decided on a name. Then the
mulla went to see the new mother. Before he entered her room, all the
clothing related to women had to be removed, and the mother fully
covered. The baby was placed in the mulla’s arms, and he recited the
chosen name several times and prayed. Once the men left, the women
could relax and enjoy themselves by singing, dancing, and playing
games.
Families preferred boys because they were much more privileged in
the society; female children were loved as well but not valued as much
and sometimes even seen as a burden such as in the case of the dowry.
If a married couple had a baby girl, her life was already mapped
out.
Very rarely did a little girl have the opportunity to learn even basic
reading, writing, and religion.4 Most of her learning happened in the
home by observing and assisting older women who taught them the
home skills they would need to be someone’s wife. By the time a girl
was a teenager, she was considered ready to be married.
Tahirih was blessed because her father and mother both wanted
her to be well-educated and were able to provide her with an excellent
education. But they also followed the custom of marriage and arranged
to have their daughter married to her cousin.
Tahirih would go on to have three children with her husband, but
they would not have a happy marriage. Tahirih had a different destiny
than other girls. She would not follow her husband, her father, or
traditions and customs. She would follow God.

The Chosen Path

Chapter 3 ~ Karbila
Tahirih and her husband Mulla Muhammad moved to the holy city
of Karbila so that he could continue his studies to become a mujtahid.
They joined a caravan and travelled west by road from their city of
Qazvin to Karbila. In those days, people travelled in large groups called
caravans because there were many dangers on the road such as bandits
who might rob them of any coins, jewels, or other precious items.
Tahirih and her caravan passed under the snowy peaks of the
Zagros Mountains which separated the Kingdom of Persia from the
Turkish Ottoman Empire. Ottomans were Turkish people who ran an
empire that included many of today’s countries in the Middle East such
as Turkey, Iraq, Syria, Israel and others.
Tahirih and her caravan came out of the mountains and down into
the flat and hot Mesopotamian plain where Karbila sat between the
Euphrates River to the east and the lake of salt to the west. Karbila was
a holy city for Muslims, especially for the Shi’a, one of the two major
branches of Islam.
After the death of the Prophet Muhammad, the religion of Islam
gradually split into two major branches: Shi’a and Sunni. The Shi’a
followed the authority of holy men, Imams, whom they believed were
guided by God and were descendants of the Prophet Muhammad.
Sunnis followed the authority of the caliph, the political ruler.
Imam Husayn was the third Imam, a divinely-guided holy man who
spoke out against rulers whom he believed were unjust. This cost him
his life. At the Battle of Karbila, in 680 AD, troops sent by the caliph
massacred Husayn and seventy of his companions. His death is still
commemorated every year by Shi’a Muslims who go out into the street
on that day and cry and wail and beat themselves in memory of his
suffering. A magnificent golden-domed mosque was built over his
grave.
Karbila became a thriving city. Countless numbers of Muslims had
come there over the centuries to pray at his grave. Many stayed there
because they wanted to be buried near him, believing this would help
their souls in the afterlife.

The Chosen Path

The young couple spent most of the next thirteen years in Karbila.
Tahirih gave birth to two sons, Ibrahim and Isma’il, and a daughter,
Zaynab. Her life was unfolding in a typical way for a young woman of
her social class.
Tahirih, though, was not typical. She liked to do something that
would lead her to dangerous knowledge: she liked to read books.
Powerful men in her family would oppose her. Powerful men in
the Kingdom would oppose her.
But many women and men would also follow her, hungry for this
dangerous knowledge.


Tahirih with her own young children in Karbala.
Painting by Simina Rahmatian

The Chosen Path

Chapter 4 ~ Shaykhism
Tahirih and her family moved back home to Qazvin after her
husband completed his studies.
It was there, in her cousin’s library, that Tahirih first encountered
the dangerous knowledge: Shaykhism, a new way of thinking about the
Qur’an and Islam.
Shaykhism was founded by Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa’i, an Islamic
philosopher who also studied astronomy, medicine, mathematics, and
music. He taught that to truly understand the Qur’an, a person had to
look at the deeper meaning of its words. When most clerics read the
Holy Book, they only used the literal, or every day, usual meaning of
words. They did not have a mystical, or spiritual, understanding. 5
Shaykh Ahmad believed that certain passages in the Qur’an had to
be read mystically to understand their true meaning: that God was
going to send a Promised One soon who would save Islam.
He did not like what he saw in religion. Clerics had become corrupt
and narrow-minded, unable to understand the real meaning of the
Qur’an, and were not teaching people true religion but only what
served their own self-interests.
He began to meditate for long periods of time. He had powerful
dreams of the Prophet Muhammad and the Imams.6
Shaykh Ahmad travelled, taught, and wrote constantly, attracting
many students to him. He wrote about one-hundred and thirty-two
books and essays, answering many questions that were put to him. the
ideas he taught included:
• God was transcendent—beyond the comprehension of human
beings. Human beings were limited to this world so they could
not know God in His Essence, meaning as He truly was.
Humans were created, but God had not been created. He was
Self-Sufficient.
• Human beings could only know God through His attributes as
they were existed in this world: wisdom, loving-kindness,
generosity…but these attributes were according to the
understanding of human beings and were not the Essence of
God.

The Chosen Path

• Because they were dependent, and God was independent,
human beings could not come to know God through their own
efforts, so God sent Prophets to guide them towards God.
Prophets expressed God’s Will to human beings in ways they
could understand.
• Human reason and religion should agree. Shaykh Ahmad
interpreted certain verses of the Qur’an mystically because their
literal meaning did not make sense—they were not reasonable.
One example was the widespread belief among Muslims that
after death, the human body would be recomposed and come
alive again—the dead would be physically resurrected. Shaykh
Ahmad taught that the ‘body’ that continued was the soul, not
the physical body.
• He did not interpret the Day of Judgment according to
tradition as the day when the world would end, and everyone
would be judged. Instead, he believed that day would be when
the Promised One of Islam would appear. This would be the
beginning of a new time. People would be judged by whether
they recognized God’s Manifestation in His new form. Shaykh
Ahmad taught that this time was coming soon, so he wanted to
prepare his students to recognize Him.7
Shaykh Ahmad’s teachings created great excitement among his
students. When he passed away, his students were guided by his
successor, Siyyid Kazim.
Tahirih read the writings of the Shaykhis and became more and
more convinced that they were true. Soon she was a devoted follower
of the Shaykhi teaching. But this became a major problem.
Her husband, Mulla Muhammad, and his father, Mulla Taqi, were
totally opposed to the Shaykhi teachings. Taqi, who was ambitious and
thirsted for greater and greater wealth, sided with the more traditional
view of Islam and thought that by opposing Shaykh Ahmad, he could
increase his own prestige among traditional Muslims who were the
majority. He went so far as to issue an edict calling Shaykh Ahmad an
‘infidel’8—an unbeliever—which was shocking because Ahmad was a
respected Islamic scholar even though he had unusual views. 9
In this debate, her father, Mulla Salih, acted as a peacekeeper. Her
younger uncle, Mullah Ali, came to agree with the Shaykhi teachings.

The Chosen Path

Her marriage now became much more strained. She was willing to
follow her beliefs whether her husband approved of them or not, and
he was not willing to allow this or to change his own ideas. Tahirih had
to move out of their home and back into her father’s house.
She decided to go and find Siyyid Kazim in the city of Karbila. She
left on her journey with her sister, daughter, and others.
Her husband kept their two sons with him. She would remain
forever separated from her sons who would grow up to be important
Shi’a clerics. But when her sons were mentioned in future history
books about important Shi’a figures of this period, they were listed as
sons of ‘al-Qurat ul-Ayn’, meaning Tahirih, showing the great respect
in which she came to be held.

The Chosen Path

Chapter 5  ~ The Promised One
A young Shaykhi cleric was making his way towards the gate of the
city of Shiraz, unaware that he was about to walk out onto the stage of
world history.
He had come to Shiraz because he believed that the Promised One
of Islam had appeared in the world and that he had to go out and seek
him.
After his teacher’s passing, this young cleric, Mulla Husayn, had
secluded himself in one of the oldest mosques in the Islamic world,
because his teacher had told him to purify himself before beginning his
quest. So he prayed and fasted for forty days and forty nights, and
when he was ready, he arose and went out on his search.
Mulla Husayn’s prayers led him to Shiraz. To enter Shiraz in those
days, one had to pass through a gate, a beautiful large structure where
people met up with one another.
Mulla Husayn arrived in Shiraz on a hot and sunny afternoon. He
sent his companions ahead to find a place to stay for the night.
Then a young man walked up to him and greeted him with great
warmth. He had a gentle manner and refined appearance. He wore a
green turban which indicated that he was a siyyid, a descendant of the
Prophet Muhammad. His name was Siyyid Ali Muhammad. Mulla
Husayn thought to himself that this young man must be a fellow
Shaykhi who had come out to greet him.
Evening was approaching. Siyyid Ali Muhammad invited him to his
home for dinner. He told Mulla Husayn not to worry about his
companions who had gone ahead: “Commit them to the care of God;
He will surely protect and watch over them.”
Mulla Husayn followed the young man to his house.
They walked through streets lined by walls on both sides—house in
the Middle East faced inward and did not have windows looking out
onto the street. They arrived at a wooden door. A servant opened it,
and the two stepped into a refreshing little courtyard which had a pool
of water and an orange tree. They climbed up the stairs to the upper
room.

The Chosen Path

After praying, Siyyid Ali Muhammad asked Mulla Husayn what he
was seeking. Mulla Husayn answered that his teacher had told him that
the Promised One of the age had come and that he must go out and
find him. He listed several of the signs of the Promised One.
Siyyid Ali Muhammad asserted: “Behold, all these signs are
manifest in Me.”
Mulla Husayn was shocked by this answer. He quickly tried to
come up with arguments about to why this was impossible. He showed
the young siyyid a theological essay he had written. Siyyid Ali
Muhammad quickly looked over Mulla Husayn’s complex points about
the Promised One in the Qur’an. He then revealed the deeper
meanings that Mulla Husayn had not understood. The young man
spoke with great power and authority, not at all like someone his age.
Out of the blue, the young siyyid then offered to write a
commentary on the Qur’anic chapter about Joseph, the son of Jacob.
Mulla Husayn was stunned by this offer because his teacher had told
him that only the Promised One would be capable of doing this.
The words flowed quickly from the young siyyid:
“The overpowering effect of the manner in which He wrote
was heightened by the gentle intonation of His voice which
accompanied His writing. Not for one moment did He
interrupt the flow of the verses which streamed from His
pen.…I sat enraptured by the magic of His voice and the
sweeping force of His revelation.”
Mulla Husayn knew that he had found the object of his quest: the
Promised One of God, the Renewer of the world!
Siyyid Ali Muhammad proclaimed to him:
“O thou who art the first to believe in Me! Verily I say, I am
the Báb, the Gate of God, and thou art the Bábu’l-Báb, the gate
of that Gate. Eighteen souls must, in the beginning,
spontaneously and of their own accord, accept Me, and
recognize the truth of My Revelation. Unwarned and uninvited,
each of these must seek independently to find Me….”10
Mulla Husayn remembered how the revelation hit him:
“…I felt possessed of such courage and power that were the
world, all its peoples and its potentates, to rise against me, I
would, alone and undaunted, withstand their onslaught. The

The Chosen Path

universe seemed but a handful of dust in my grasp. I seemed to
be the voice of Gabriel personified, calling unto all mankind:
`Awake, for, lo! the morning Light has broken. Arise, for His
Cause is made manifest. The portal of His grace is open wide;
enter therein, O peoples of the world! For He Who is your
Promised One is come!'"”11
At dawn, May 23rd, 1844, Mulla Husayn stepped back out into the
street, a man who was changed by “a sense of gladness and strength.”
Over that summer of 1844, one seeker after another found the
Bab. Among them was the extraordinary woman who became one of
his foremost disciples: Tahirih of Qazvin.

The Chosen Path

Chapter 6 ~ Tahirih’s Dream
By early 1844 when the Bab declared Himself, Tahirih was living in
the city of Karbila which was holy to Shi’a Muslims because the third
Imam, Husayn, was buried there. The city was also a center for the
study of the Islamic religion.
Tahirih’s father, Mulla Salih, hoped that by allowing his daughter to
go on this journey to the holy city, she would lose interest in the radical
Shaykhi ideas. Her husband felt humiliated that he had a such a strong-
headed wife who would choose different beliefs than his own and act
so independently. Her uncle actively preached and taught against the
Shaykhis.
Tahirih made the journey to Karbila with her sister and brother-in-
law in the hope of studying with Siyyid Kazim, the leader of the
Shaykhis. Unfortunately, Siyyid Kazim passed away before Tahirih
arrived in Karbila.12
His widow was greatly impressed by her and invited her to stay in
her home. The widow’s love for Tahirih aroused the interest of other
women. 13
Soon Tahirih was giving classes in Siyyid Kazim’s widow’s home
which attracted both men and women who wanted to hear this
extraordinary woman.14 Her reputation as a spiritual visionary spread
throughout the friendship networks of the women who attended her
classes.
Women, though, were not supposed to be teachers of religion.
That was a man’s job. Still, there were many men interested in what she
was teaching. When they came, she spoke from behind a curtain
because in this society it would have been inappropriate for her to
show her face and speak in public in front of men.

The Chosen Path


Tahirih Teaching Women and Girls by Simina Rahmatian

Siyyid Kazim told the Shaykhis to go and find the Promised One of
the Age. But after the death of Siyyid Kazim, many Shaykhis didn’t do
this. It was more comfortable for them just to study and teach. But
Tahirih knew that she must actively go out and seek the Promised One.
She really believed He was here.
Several other Shaykhis also set out on the same quest as Mulla
Husayn. Tahirih’s brother-in-law, Mulla Muhammad Ali Qazvini was
one of them. She gave him a letter she had written for the Promised
One. She instructed her brother-in-law to give it to the Promised if he
found Him15 and:

The Chosen Path

“Say to Him, from me, the effulgence of Thy face flashed forth,
and the rays of Thy visage rose high. Then speak the word,
“Am I not your Lord?” and “Thou art, Thou art!” we will all
reply.”16
In this poem, she wrote joyfully about the arrival of the new day:
“Wake up, sleeper! Your lover’s come for you!
Rouse yourself, brush those cobwebs from your hair…”17
Then one night in the summer of 1844, Tahirih had a dream18 in
which she saw a young siyyid dressed in black with a green turban on
his head, and his hands raised up in prayer.19 He spoke words that
stayed with her even after she had woken up.
Around the time she had this dream, her brother-in-law found the
goal of his quest: the Bab, the Promised One. He gave Him Tahirih’s
letter. The Bab read it and immediately declared her to be one of his
apostles.
The Bab gave her the title of “Letter of the Living.”1 The Letters of
the Living were His eighteen chief disciples who would carry his
message out to the people. Tahirih was the only one of them who was
a woman. They were the Letters because they were formed by the
Primal Point, the Bab—like a Pen which forms letters on a page.
Tahirih became confirmed in her faith when she read a copy of the
text revealed by the Bab on the night of His declaration to Mulla
Husayn.2 Tahirih recognized immediately that these words were the
same as those she had heard in her dream. She was now certain she had
found the object of her spiritual search—the Promised One of the age
foretold by her Shaykhi spiritual teachers.20



1 Tahirih’s brothers-in-law, Mirza Muhammad Ali Qazvini and Mirza Hadi Qazvini,
sons of Haji Mirza Abdu’l-Vahhab, her father-in-law/uncle, and Taqi’s main rival in
Qazvin, were Letters of the Living ( Nabíl-i-Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers,
Translated by Shoghi Effendi, (London, UK: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1953), 55)
2 Mulla Ali Bastami (H. M. Balyuzi, The Bab, (Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1973)
26-758); the text was the "Ahsanu'l-Qisas" (“The Best of Stories”) the
commentary on the Surih of Joseph revealed by the Bab (‘Abdu’l-Baha,
Memorials of the Faithful (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i publishing Trust, 1971), 191)

The Chosen Path

Chapter 7 ~ Tahirih, the Pure One
Eighteen souls came on their own through dreams and study and
personal encounters with the Bab to believe that He was the Promised
One.
In October 1844, the Bab boarded a boat bound for Mecca. Five
times a day Muslims prayed facing the direction of this holiest city in
Islam where the Prophet Muhammad was born. He was going there to
proclaim that the time of fulfillment of Islam had arrived and to make
His pilgrimage.
He crossed the sea from Persia to Arabia. In Mecca, he stood up
next to the Kaba’a, the holiest shrine in Islam, and proclaimed His
message but his words fell on deaf ears. He then prayed intensely at the
tomb of Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam whose time He was
fulfilling.
In Karbila, Tahirih saw it as her duty to teach others about the
Bab’s message and to remove any doubts about his claims.
She wrote a poem about how those with insight must try to help
others develop their inner vision such that they can see God in
whatever form He makes himself manifest.21
“He’s come! He’s here to tear our veils away
He’s here! He’s come to show us God today…”22
She translated the Bab’s Writings from Arabic into Persian so that
her countrymen could read them. She knew both languages well.
Tahirih taught the Bab’s message boldly and publicly. She wrote
long letters to all the leading clerics of Karbila explaining the true
station of the Bab. She told them to stop trying to prevent the spread
of His teachings. This was astonishing because she was a woman
attempting to teach prominent men who viewed women as inferior
beings without souls.
Tahirih also needed to educate the Babis. Most Babis did not fully
understand the claims of the Bab. They believed that the Bab would
purify Islam so that the religion would return to its former glory. But
they were sure there would be no new Revelations from God because
they had been taught that Muhammad was the last Manifestation of
God.

The Chosen Path

Tahirih, though, had studied the Bab’s Writings carefully, and had
come to understand that in every age God would send a new
Manifestation of God and that the Bab was the bringer of the new
Divine Revelation—not just the reformer of Islam.
For most Muslim clerics and Shaykhis, and many Babis, this was
much too radical a claim.
Still, she continued to speak out and teach. She faced her
opponents courageously and taught what she believed to be true.
From 1844 to1847, many people—men and women---came to
learn from her. A group of students developed around her. They
spread the ideas she taught. She had high standards for her group of
students: they had to keep good habits around her such as not smoking
or swearing.
Tahirih lost an important protector in early 1846, when Siyyid
Kazim’s widow passed away.23 Attacks on Tahirih mounted, so she
moved to the nearby town of Kazimayn.24
Once she moved there, she was free to teach again and drew large
crowds.25 She challenged the prominent mullahs to a public debate, but
they declined probably because they were intimidated by her
brilliance.26 Instead, conservative clerics spread rumors about her to try
to turn the Babis of Kazimayn against her.27
Rumors spread about people can really harm a person. Even if the
rumor is not true, when people hear it about another, they can’t get out
of their heads, and it gives them a bad impression of that person.
Rumors also harm the spiritual life of those who spread them because
they are hurting someone else.
The rumors spread about Tahirih had their intended effect because
Persia was a deeply conservative society, so such rumors shocked
people. The Babis of Kazimayn decided to write to the Bab directly
about Tahirih’s teaching and activities.28
In those days, the mail took a long time to reach its destination
because it had to go by horse. By the time the Bab’s reply arrived,
Tahirih had already left Kazimayn.29
His answer was read to a gathering of Babis. The Bab supported
Tahirih’s understanding of his teachings. He Bab called her the ‘Pure
One’ which is what ‘Tahirih’ means, and He even regarded her as the
leader of the Babis of that whole region!

The Chosen Path

Through all of these intense attacks, Tahirih’s love for the Bab
remained constant. She had a deep desire for reunion with God which
she expresses in this, her most famous poem:

“If ever I should behold you
face to face,
eye to eye,
I would be bold to recount
My heart’s plaint
point by point,
Verse by verse.

Like Saba the east wind,
I have searched everywhere
for your countenance
from house to house,
door to door,
alley to alley,
from quarter to quarter.

Bereft of your visage,
my two eyes have wept
such bloody tears,
Tigris after Tigris,
stream upon stream,
spring after spring,
brook upon brook.

Your bloom-like mouth,
your face enveloped
with ambergris hair,
blossom to blossom,
flower to flower,
tulip to tulip,
fragrance to fragrance;

Your perfect brow,
your eyes, your beauty spot
have preyed on the bird of my heart,
sense to sense

The Chosen Path

and heart to heart,
feeling to feeling
and mood to mood.

My desperate heart
has knitted your love
to the very fabric of my being,
string by string,
thread by thread,
warp by warp,
and woof by woof.

Táhirih has searched
every layer of her heart
but found only you there,
sheet by sheet,
fold by fold,
cover by cover
over and over again.”30

The Chosen Path

Chapter 8 ~ Tahirih Unloosed
The false rumors about Tahirih had reached her father back in
Qazvin. She wrote imploringly to him:
“I plead with you! This humblest of people is your daughter.
You know her, and she has been brought up and educated
under your supervision. If she had, or has, a worldly love, that
could not have remained a secret to you. If you want to inquire
into her affairs, God who holds the scale and is the remover of
veils would testify for her.”31
Tahirih’s mission was to teach about the coming of the Promised
One, but this always met with great opposition. She even challenged
her father on this:
“Dear Father! So many times when I visit the holy shrine of the
Imam, may peace be upon him, in the flood of my tears I pity
you and pray for you that perhaps you may be saved…If you
fail to recognize the cause, there will be no benefit for you in all
your acts of devotion.”32
Back in Karbila, opposition to Tahirih grew fiercer. She was placed
under house arrest.33
Tahirih defended herself by saying that all she wanted was an open
debate with religious authorities so that the truth of the teachings could
be established.34 But no one took her up on her offer, possibly fearing
that her great knowledge would prove the claims about the Bab to be
true.
Finally, she left Karbila for Baghdad. On the way out, angry
residents—stoked by clerics—threw stones at her.35
Tahirih arrived in Baghdad sometime in early 1847 and immediately
began to teach publicly in the house that was provided to her.36 She had
translated important works by the Bab and used all of these for her
classes.37
Her influence continued to spread. The chief judge of Baghdad
summoned Tahirih to an interview. He found her to be innocent of
heresy,38 but he wanted to be sure of this. So, he sent her to be

The Chosen Path

interviewed by Shaykh Alusi, a cleric who had previously tried and
banished another of the Bab’s Letters of the Living.
Alusi was also very impressed by Tahirih. Not only did he not find
her to be a heretic, but he was interested in her claims.
Later in his life, Shaykh Alusi remembered his interview with
Tahirih:
“Verily, I saw in her such a degree of merit and
accomplishment as I rarely saw in men. She was a wise and
decent woman who was unique in virtue and chastity … there
is no doubt about her knowledge.”39
Tahirih also taught Persian Jews about the Bab. Jews had been
living in Persia for over four thousand years, since before the time of
Islam. A Jewish doctor, Hakim Masih, who was accompanying the
King of Persia on a trip, attended a gathering of Muslim clerics in
Baghdad. They were debating with a woman who spoke from behind a
curtain. This was Tahirih. Her arguments were so logical and expressed
with such force and clarity that he became a believer.
Since he had never heard of the Bab, he thought that this woman
was herself the Promised One. He was able to hear Tahirih speak three
more times before he had to resume his journey with the Shah. When
he returned to Tihran, he treated a Babi prisoner who taught him about
Tahirih and the Bab. Through Masih’s subsequent teaching, many Jews
became Babis.
The Ottoman Turkish authorities decided that her teaching,
combined with her popularity, constituted a threat and would make
tensions between the Sunni Muslims, who were Arabs and Turks, and
the Shi’a Muslims, who were mostly Persian, much worse. Since
Tahirih was Persian, they ordered her to be sent back to Qazvin in
Persia.
A representative of her family arrived in Baghdad to bring her
back. He observed in a letter to Tahirih’s father that “The entire
nobility and the ‘ulama of Baghdad greatly respect her and confer on
her highest praises.”40
Tahirih left Baghdad around March 1847, accompanied by
Ottoman officials, about thirty of her followers, and her female
companions.

The Chosen Path

The journey through the mountains took about three months. All
along the way, she taught fearlessly about the appearance of a new
revelation from God and met with both resistance and acceptance.41
In the village of Karand, hundreds of excited people swore
allegiance to Tahirih. The hearts of these rural people were open and
not jaded like those of city people. They said they were willing to serve
as her personal army which she, of course, declined. In these villages of
Western Iran, many people followed a religion called Ahl-e Haqq,
which taught that God made Himself known through successive
manifestations so her message of a new manifestation of God may
have appealed to them.42
Tahirih and her group arrived in Kirmanshah, on the Western
border of Persia.43 Many of the people in this city also followed the
Ahl-e Haqq religion. Tahirih spent forty days there during which she
met with the governor, his wife, and other prominent citizens.44
Her presence and teaching excited the people. She challenged the
religious leaders to a public debate45 which worried the chief mujtahid.
He asked the governor to have her and her followers thrown out of
town. The governor replied that she had offered to have a public
debate and to have both parties pray to God asking Him to show
which party was in the wrong.46 The chief mujtahid rejected both of
these options, most likely because they were too risky with a person as
talented as Tahirih.
An enemy of the governor then organized a physical attack on
Tahirih and her companions. The companions were beaten, and their
goods were stolen.47 She and a few of her closest companions were put
into a coach and sent out of the city into the desert without any
provisions.48 Tahirih wrote to the governor describing how they had
been treated. He found out that the clerics were behind all of this and
ordered the mayor to return all their belongings.49
Next, Tahirih stopped in the important city of Hamadan. With the
help of the prominent women of the city, she challenged the religious
leaders to a debate. She wanted them to follow certain rules: the debate
must be on prophecies about the Promised One and the participants
must refrain from bad language and smoking. The smoking of water
pipes, even opium, was common at religious debates, but she insisted
on certain rules of purity just as the Bab had. ‘Purity’ in religion is the
idea that your mind, body, and habits are all clean—that your clothes

The Chosen Path

are not soiled, that your mind is not filled with evil thoughts, that you
don’t curse when speaking, and that you don’t smoke or take drugs or
alcohol. Cleanliness is an attribute God.
In the debate, she explained the basic Babi doctrines that divine
revelation was ongoing and progressive, that the Bab was giving a new
teaching for a new age, and that the Babis were its recipients. The
clerics chose as their spokesperson a great Sufi mystic. Sufis believed
that the source of human suffering was disconnection from the Creator
and that all human beings had the potential to be re-united with Him.
While the Sufi mystic treated her and her ideas respectfully, another
mujtahid verbally attacked her. He was rebuked by the governor who
then closed the debate.50
Soon Tahirih’s teaching in Hamadan was bringing more Jewish
people into the new Faith. Jews had lived in Persia for thousands of
years. People of the various religions in Persian, though, did not mix
socially and very rarely inter-married. A person almost never converted
to another religion as this would have created great problems with the
family and community who would have seen this as abandoning
tradition.
In April 1847, Mulla Lazar, son of the leading rabbi of Hamadan,
hosted Tahirih in his home. His father became concerned that her
presence in a Jewish home might bring on anti-Jewish violence.51 So
the daughter of the late King offered to hosted Tahirih.52 News of
Tahirih’s teaching in Hamadan travelled through the networks of
highly educated women.
For her safety, Tahirih was moved to a village owned by the
Turkish noblewomen of Hamadan, and then she left for Qazvin with
her relatives.53

The Chosen Path

Chapter 9 ~ Murder
After three years away, Tahirih arrived back in her hometown of
Qazvin in July 1847. Her family was deeply divided by the Bab’s claims,
and she was returning to Qazvin as one of the acknowledged leaders of
the Babi Faith.54
The Writings of the Bab had arrived there before Tahirih’s return.
Some people enthusiastically became Babis. Others rejected the new
teachings such as Tahirih’s uncle, Mulla Taqi, who stepped up his
attacks on the Babis.
Her family held a council on her first night back. Her father told
her that if she had been born a man and declared herself to be the Bab,
he would have believed her, but he couldn’t understand her devotion
to this “Shirazi lad” as he referred to the Bab.55 He wanted more than
anything to keep peace in the family. She responded to her father that
she had come to her faith through thoughtful study and prayer. She
assured him that she knew what she was doing. Her uncle Taqi flew
into a fury when she said this. He cursed the Bab and then struck her.
She warned him that she saw his mouth filled with blood.56
Tahirih moved to her brother’s house where she held classes for
women.57 She was also in constant correspondence with the Bab who
was imprisoned in the remote stone fortress of Mahku.
Her estranged husband sent her a message telling her to return to
their home. She replied that he had rejected the religion of God. She
could have changed his unbelief into belief, she said, if had he stood by
her, but he hadn’t. Now, she was casting him out of her life forever
and divorcing him. This angered her husband and his father, Mulla
Taqi. They set about to undermine her and the Babis in every way.58
Babis were insulted in public and humiliated by having their
turbans unwound and used to drag them around. Rumors were spread
about Tahirih’s family. Her uncle Taqi was especially angry about this
because this was his family as well and all of this affected their
reputation. He became even more aggressive in his attacks on Babis.5960
Her father did not believe these rumors and denied them. Still, they
ashamed him.

The Chosen Path

Public reputation in Persian society was very important. If a person
had been insulted or slandered, they could not simply let it go. It had to
be made right and the reputation restored. It would have been
intolerable for a person or family---especially a prominent one—to
allow their name to be besmirched.
But Tahirih’s father could never escape the humiliation. Years later,
he had to leave Qazvin for Iraq because of this, where he died.61
In his anger, Mulla Taqi denounced the new teachings from the
pulpit in the mosque. He insulted the founder of Shaykhism, Shaykh
Ahmad, still a respected figure.62 This angered a sincere young Shaykhi
so much that he resolved to kill Taqi.
The young man entered the mosque in the evening. At sunrise, he
crept out from his hiding place and stabbed Taqi while he performed
his dawn prayers.63 He fled up to the roof leaving Taqi’s bloody body
on the mosque floor. People rushed into the mosque.64
The authorities went out searching for Babis to arrest.65 The
attacker was bothered by this, so he gave himself up to the governor.
He was brought to the death bed of Taqi who identified him.66
The shocking murder of a high-ranking cleric like Mulla Taqi gave
the enemies of Tahirih the perfect pretext with which to destroy the
Babi community of Qazvin. Her husband, Mulla Muhammad, and his
associates rounded up prominent Babis. Homes of Babis were raided
and ransacked.3
Women were also attacked.67 A mob forced Tahirih and her maid4
out of her father’s house. The governor interrogated Tahirih who
defended herself eloquently. The governor then threatened to brand
them when news arrived that the killer had turned himself in.5

3 Haji Siyyid Asad’ullah and his son Mihdi’s house was ransacked; he was a faithful
believer whose daughter was a sister-in-law to Tahirih (Root, Táhirih, the Pure,
75). Mulla Mushin known as the ‘Babi killer’, and government agents raided the
homes of known Babis (Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 54).
4 Katiya (Amanat, Qurrat al-‘Ayn, 137).
5 According to Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, and Root, (Táhirih, the Pure, 74),
Tahirih’s maid was about to be branded. According to Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 74,
they were saved when Tahirih turned in prayer towards Mahku where the Bab
was imprisoned.

The Chosen Path

There was no evidence that Tahirih had played any role in this
crime, so she was released into house arrest in her father’s home.
Her husband and one of her cousins plotted to poison her food.68
Tahirih did not eat the household food in case it had been poisoned.69
No one was allowed to visit her except a faithful friend6 who made
excuses like washing Tahirih’s clothes, so she could bring her news and
food.
Though Tahirih’s innocence made it impossible for her husband to
punish her, he was able to destroy several of the leading Babis of
Qazvin. These were the first public executions of the followers of the
new faith in Persia and included the first Babi—one of Tahirih’s Arab
followers—to be killed on Persian soil.70 The killings were carried out
with great cruelty by mobs in the streets who were incited by clerics.
Tahirih challenged the unjust actions of her estranged husband,
Mulla Muhammad, who had now succeeded his father as the leading
cleric of Qazvin. She sent him a message from the Qur’an which stated
that only unbelievers rejected God’s light when it appeared. She wrote
that if she was not delivered from him in nine days, this would be a
sign that she had been wrong:
“‘Fain would they put out God’s light with their mouths; but
God only desireth to perfect His light, albeit the infidels abhor
it.’ (Qur’an, 9:33). If my Cause be the Cause of Truth, if the
Lord whom I worship be none other than the one true God,
He will, ere nine days have elapsed, deliver me from the yoke of
your tyranny. Should He fail to achieve my deliverance, you are
free to act as you desire. You will have irrevocably established
the falsity of my belief.”71
Mulla Muhammad ignored the message.
Mirza Husayn Ali, the prominent Babi leader, decided that the time
had come to rescue Tahirih from the violence in Qazvin unleashed by
her husband who sought revenge on her. The wife of one of his trusted
friends7 disguised herself as a beggar woman and took a sealed letter to

6 Khatun Jan the eldest daughter of Haji Asad’u’llah (Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 75).
7 Balyuzi, The Bab, 167. ’Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 199, calls him
“Hadi Qazvini.” husband of Khatun Jan; according to Samandar, quoted in Root,
Táhirih, the Pure, 75, Khatun Jan was the eldest daughter of Haji Asadullah, of the
Farhadi family. She was the one who secretly visited Tahirih. This Hadi had left

The Chosen Path

the house where Tahirih was being kept prisoner.72 Soon, Tahirih was
secretly taken away to another location.8
When her captors realized she had escaped, they searched for her
everywhere.
Tahirih and two companions were brought to the city wall, near a
gate where three fast horses were waiting for them. They rode ninety
miles to Tihran through the cold October night, taking a back road to
avoid detection.73 They stopped at a shrine a couple of miles to the
west of the capital.74 Tahirih and her group were able to rest in the
garden, while a messenger went into town to let Mirza Husayn Ali
know they had arrived.9



Qazvin before the agitation but was sent back there by Baha'u'llah to rescue
Tahirih.
8 His name was Hasan Najar (Root, Tahirih, The Pure, Iran’s Greatest Woman, 10;
Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 83).
9 According to Samandar, 58, Tahirih rested while Aqa Hadi went into the city and
told Karbala’i Hasan Tajere Qazvini that Tahirih had arrived. Karbala’i Hasan
Tajere Qazvini came out to the garden of Imam Zadi where she was staying. Quli
didn’t know him and hit him but Tahirih told him to stop. She brought fruits out
and shared the food with him.

The Chosen Path

Chapter 10 ~ The Trial of the Bab
The Bab’s influence spread throughout Persia. Thousands of
people were eager to hear that God was speaking again. Even if they
weren’t sure of what the Bab was claiming, they were drawn to the
excitement of a spiritual renewal.
What the Bab was claiming, though, really mattered.
If he was claiming to be an inspired teacher of the Qur’an, that was
okay. There had been many distinguished scholars and mystics whom
people had followed.
But if he was claiming to be the bringer of a new Revelation from
God like Muhammad, that was heresy. Heresy was to teach ideas that
were against official religious doctrine and, in that time, it was a crime
that could be punished by death.
Because of the Bab’s growing popularity, the authorities decided
that he had to be put in a prison far away from anyone. They chose the
fortress of Mahku, a stone fort located in the far northwest of Persia
on the border with Russia. Its four large towers stood up on a rock
mountain looking down over a valley.
A lone path connected the gate of the fort to the town at the foot
of the mountain. The people of this area were Kurds who followed the
Sunni form of Islam. When the local farmers went out to their fields in
the morning, they often stopped to look up at the stone fortress
hoping to receive a blessing from the holy man being kept within it.
Gradually the Bab’s spirituality changed the warden and the guards.
The warden had a vision that the Bab was walking outside the walls of
the fortress. After this, he allowed visitors to come in and see the
Bab.75 His influence spread.
The Bab transformed Mahku from a remote prison fortress into a
center of spiritual attraction.
A bitterly cold winter took hold of this region. From his dark and
cold stone room,76 the Bab began to reveal his Holy book, the Bayan
(the ‘Utterance’). This was the new Book of God, and He was a new
Manifestation of God.
The Prime Minister read reports about the Bab’s growing influence
on the hearts of the local people. So, in April 1848, the Prime Minister

The Chosen Path

had the Bab moved south to the prison fortress of Chihriq located in
an even more remote Kurdish region.
The rules there were supposed to be even stricter. The Bab referred
to Chihriq as the “Grievous Mountain.” But the isolation could not
stop the spread of the Bab’s spiritual power. Soon the officer in charge
of the prison fortress allowed people to come and meet this Holy
figure. One man walked all the way from India to meet the Bab after
seeing Him in a dream!77
Back in Tehran, the authorities decided that it was time to put the
Bab on trial.
The most prominent clerics and the crown prince of Persia
gathered in Tabriz, the main city of the region where the Bab was being
held a prisoner. News of His coming spread
All along the road to Tabriz, people flocked to see the Bab. Stories
were told of miracles that occurred in His Presence.78
The clerics wanted to know exactly who the Bab was claiming to
be. The Bab entered and without being asked, sat in the seat of honor.
When questioned about his claim, He answered:
“I am, I am, I am, the Promised One! I am the One whose
name you
have for a thousand years invoked, at whose
mention you have risen, whose advent you have longed to
witness, and the hour of whose Revelation you have prayed
God to hasten.”79
This was an astounding thing for a man to claim. How could this
young man from Shiraz be the Promised One of Islam? He was not a
learned man, after all, like the assembled clerics. He had no signs of
power, like a King had, no army or riches. He was a prisoner in a
remote area of the Kingdom.
The Bab’s claim angered several of the clerics. They wanted to
embarrass this youth who was making such a preposterous claim. They
wanted Him to prove that He was the Promised One. The Bab answered
that His own word was the “…most convincing truth of the Mission of
the Prophet of God.”80
A cleric asked Him to describe the trial in the style of the language
of the Qur’an. If the Bab was the Promised One of God, He should be
able to speak in the same language of Revelation as Muhammad had
done in the Holy Book. But the Bab spoke an unconventional form of

The Chosen Path

Arabic. As he started to answer the request, a cleric cut him off by
saying He had made some grammar mistakes.
At that point the Bab uttered the Qur’anic verse:
“Far be the glory of thy Lord, the Lord of all greatness, from
what they impute to Him, and peace be upon His Apostles!”81
He got up and walked out of the trial. The clerics then argued
among themselves. The trial ended in confusion.
A religious decree was issued condemning the Bab to death. It was
not carried out, though, because the authorities were afraid that he
would become even more popular as a martyr.
Instead, he was whipped like a common criminal. But news of the
trial’s proceedings spread throughout Tabriz, and the reputation of the
Bab grew. The authorities took him away and isolated him back in the
mountain fortress of Chihriq.82
Meanwhile, Tahirih had been rescued from the violence in Qazvin.
Because of her uncle’s murder, his son, who was her former husband,
began violent persecutions against the Babis.
Mirza Husayn Ali had her taken away by night and brought her to
Tehran. Tahirih sensed that he had very great spiritual capacity, and he
was admired and respected by everyone and came from a distinguished
family.
Protected by Mirza Husayn Ali, Tahirih spent time in hiding in his
home in Tihran. Her voice, though, was becoming stronger and even
more unafraid.
One evening in Tihran, Vahid, who had given up his position as
one of Persia’s highest-ranking clerics by becoming a Babi, was visiting
the home of Mirza Husayn Ali. Tahirih listened to Vahid speaking
about signs and prophecies in the Qur’an. Suddenly, she interrupted
Vahid:
“Let deeds, not words, testify to thy faith, if thou art a man of
true learning. Cease idly repeating the traditions of the past, for
the day of service, of steadfast action, is come. Now is the time
to show forth the true signs of God, to rend asunder the veils
of idle fancy, to promote the Word of God, and to sacrifice
ourselves in His path. Let deeds, not words, be our adorning.”83

The Chosen Path

Tahirih felt a great sense of urgency about proclaiming that the Bab
was the Promised One of God.


Tahirih and Vahid by Simina Rahmatian

The Chosen Path

Chapter 11 ~ Badasht
Mirza Husayn Ali organized a gathering of Babis at the village of
Badasht in the province of Khorasan.
Tahirih and her personal servant10 rode through Tihran’s northern
gate. They had to be careful because the city’s gatekeepers were on the
alert for any woman without a pass.
Seven or eight miles outside of the city, they came to a large house
in the middle of an orchard at the foot of the mountains whose owner
had abandoned it. Its elderly caretaker was there and agreed to look
after the two women as they prepared for the long journey east.
For this kind of long ride overland, people had to make sure they
had enough food, money, and protection. A person couldn’t just ride
off and hope to make the long journey safely as there were no police
and the only rest areas were in large towns which had caravanserai, a
type of inn. Most importantly, travelers could bring their horses and
camels into them and have them fed. There were also rooms—usually
quite dirty---for people to sleep in—but there were no beds.
Tahirih and her group took the main east-west highway across
Persia. With no trees, dust from all the other travelers riding donkeys,
horses, and camels filled the air.84
They rode until they reached a town that was at the juncture of the
roads that went east and north to the sea. Tahirih’s destination—the
village of Badasht--was to the South. This area had been a resort for
the nobility because it had flowing water and trees. There were several
small gardens with a large open area in the middle where the Babis
could gather to meet.85
Mirza Husayn Ali rented three gardens. One was for himself,
another for Quddus, and a third for Tahirih; other believers pitched
their tents near them.86 Each garden had a large tent with mats and
carpets. There was a stream which ran through the great open field, the
fruits trees were in bloom, and great mountains could be seen on the
horizon.87
Eighty-one Babis gathered at Badasht in the beginning of the
summer of 1848.88

10 Her name was Qanitih (Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 205).

The Chosen Path

To prepare for this gathering, the Bab and Mirza Husayn Ali had
corresponded frequently.89 The Bab had revealed His Holy Book, the
Bayan just the winter before so the Babis did not know it well. In those
days you had to have a physical copy of a book to read it and things
travelled much more slowly than today.
The main purpose of this gathering was to determine the true
nature of the Bab’s Revelation. The Babis did not all have the same
understanding of the Claims of the Bab.
Was he announcing a new Revelation or was he the promised
reformer of Islam?
If this was a new Revelation, what were its teachings and who were its
leaders?
Some believed that the Bab was the fulfillment of Islam while
others thought that He was a complete break with the past---a new
Messenger from God like Muhammad.
Tahirih believed that Bab had brought a new revelation. Islamic
Law was now replaced with a new law and a new teaching. For many
Babis this was very radical—maybe too much. All their relatives and
ancestors going as far back in time as they could remember had been
raised according to the Law of the Qur’an. It was unimaginable—and
even frightening---to think that that had all changed.
One day, Mirza Husayn Ali was ill in His tent. Quddus and other
believers came to meet with Him. They were speaking with Him when
Tahirih entered their gathering.
Looking up at her they were shocked because she was not wearing
the traditional veil without her veil. She proclaimed to the gathering
that “the Trumpet is sounding! The great Trump is blown! The
universal Advent is now proclaimed!”90 These were words from the
Qur’an and the Book of Isaiah. On the new Day of God, a trumpet
blast would be heard and would announce it. In ancient towns a
trumpet would sound when there were important announcements or
news that everyone had to hear.
She, Tahirih, a woman, was that trumpet blast.91
Shoghi Effendi later wrote about this event:
“A little over four years had elapsed since the birth of the Báb's
Revelation when the trumpet-blast announcing the formal
extinction of the old, and the inauguration of the new

The Chosen Path

Dispensation was sounded. … The trumpeter was a lone
woman, the noblest of her sex in that Dispensation, whom
even some of her co-religionists pronounced a heretic. The call
she sounded was the death-knell of the twelve hundred year old
law of Islám.”92
The Babis were shocked by this. They regarded Tahirih as being
the same as Fatimih, Muhammad’s daughter, whom they considered to
be holy. This was a conservative society, so to look upon a woman’s
face was considered scandalous. To look upon the face of a holy
woman was blasphemous.
When they saw Tahirih unveiled and proclaiming the New Day
some of the Babis there may have remembered the Islamic tradition in
which Fatimih appears unveiled on the Day of Judgement. They may
have realized that the time had come.93
Many of those who witnessed this were shocked; one Babi even cut
his own throat as a gesture of atonement for having looked on the face
of such a holy person.94
Tahirih was shattering the boundaries of appropriate female
behavior. She was driven by powerful spiritual forces which she
believed had been released into the world because of the Bab’s
revelation. Being a woman was not a limitation for her, but a source of
power. In this poem, she celebrates her own strength as a woman:
“Just let the wind untie my perfumed hair,
my net would capture every wild gazelle.
Just let me paint my flashing eyes with black,
and I would turn the day as dark as hell.
Yearning, each dawn, to see my dazzling face,
the heaven lifts its golden looking-glass….”95
The Babis all looked to Mirza Husayn Ali for guidance. He told
them to read this Surih of the Inevitable from the Qur’an:
“When the Day that must come shall have come
suddenly…Day that shall abase! Day that shall exalt….”96
That Day had come.
Even in all the commotion, Tahirih appeared radiant and peaceful.
She spoke about this new time using Qur’anic language.

The Chosen Path

She declared herself to be the word of this revelation:
“I am the word that the Qa’im will utter, the word that shall
put to flight the chiefs and nobles of the earth.”97
And she encouraged those assembled to celebrate this day:
“This day is the day of festivity and universal rejoicing, the day
on which the fetters of the past are burst asunder. Let those
who have shared in this great achievement arise and embrace
each other.”98
Tahirih’s actions divided the Babis. Some now doubted the truth of
the Bab, and a few even left the Faith.99
It was Mirza Husayn Ali’s wisdom which held the Babis together.
He guided them to a new understanding of the Bab’s revelation.
Though no written record survives of Badasht, the Babis came to
understand that the Bab’s revelation was a new Revelation.
Now, every day at Badasht, another law of Islam was abolished,100
followed by a vigorous discussion among the Babis. Mirza Husayn Ali
steered the course of these events.101 He was able to create unity among
the Babis.
On each of the twenty-two days at Badasht, He revealed one tablet
which was chanted aloud. He gave new names to individual Babis. He
was now ‘Baha’, meaning ‘Glory’ or ‘Glorious One’; there was no
objection to him having this title because of the respect in which he
was held by the other Babis. Tahirih was now known by this name
which the Bab had called her and meant the “Pure One”; prior to that
she had been known by other names, such as “Qurratu’l-Ayn.”
meaning the ‘solace of the eyes’.102 In tablets to his followers, the Bab
used the new names they had been given at Badasht.103
After Badasht, the Babis went back out into the world greatly
changed. They were leaping into the unknown.
What if you began a new life in which everything you believed had
changed?

The Chosen Path

Chapter 12 ~ Taken Prisoner
After Badasht, Tahirih, Quddus, Jinab-i-Baha, and others travelled
north along a river through a high mountain pass into a valley which
went all the way to the Caspian Sea.
Tahirih composed and chanted poems aloud in praise of the new
day. The sound of her voice echoed in the valley.104
Tahirih spent the next year and a half under the protection of
Jinab-i-Baha in the province of Mazindaran where his family owned
land and homes in the district of Nur.
The province of Mazindaran was full of green valleys and flowers.
The Alborz Mountains rose up in the southern part of the province
and dropped dramatically into the coastal plain of the Caspian Sea. This
was a beautiful region of Persia.
Jinab-i-Baha’s father, Mirza Buzurg owned several villages and
homes in Nur, where he had built a large mansion in the village of
Takur. The villagers had seen Jinab-i-Baha grow up there as a boy and
respected the whole family.
Takur sat in a dramatic setting. Mountain peaks soared north of the
village and the Nur River valley opened to the south, the river flowing
through a canyon with a sheer rock cliff.
Mirza Buzurg’s large house dominated the village of simple stone
and brick homes with rocky lanes meandering between them. The arch
above the two-story mansion had an inscription: "When thou enterest
the sacred abode of the Beloved, say: “I am at thy command. This is
the home of Love; enter with reverence. This is holy ground; remove
thy shoes when thou enterest here.”"105
From his ancestral village, Jinab-i-Baha guided the affairs of the
dynamic new religion.
In the summer of 1848, Mulla Husayn led a group of Babis across
Persia to proclaim the message of the Bab.106 By the time he reached
Mazindaran, he had over three-hundred people with him.107
As they neared the town of Barfurush, a large and angry crowd
confronted them believing that the Babis would destroy Islam. Soldiers
treacherously attacked the Babis as they were leaving.

The Chosen Path

Mulla Husayn led the Babis to a local shrine dedicated to a holy
man named Shaykh Tabarsi. There, the Babis built a simple fort and set
up camp.108
While they were building the fort, the Babis were frequently
attacked by local people. Quddus joined them several days later. This
brought great joy to the Babis. He was greatly revered by them; Mulla
Husayn even called himself Quddus’ “lowly servant.” Then the Babis
gathered together to chant the Writings of the Bab.109
The leading cleric in the region wrote a letter of alarm to the new
King of Persia, Nasir al-din Shah, warning him that there was a
rebellion taking place and that troops were needed. Though the Babis
were untrained, they were determined and had faith. They were able to
repulse the attacks of the professional soldiers.
Army reinforcements arrived and surrounded the fort. Despite the
overwhelming odds in favor of the army, the standoff continued
through that winter of 1848-9. Mulla Husayn led several charges which
terrified the soldiers. In one of the charges, he was killed. With
inspiration from Quddus, the grieving Babis managed to continue their
struggle.
The food supplies dwindled. The Babis were hungry and cold. The
cannons were constantly firing at them. But they did not give up.
Finally, officials used a trick. They lured the Babis out by swearing
an oath on a Qur’an that they were guaranteed their safe passage.
People back then took oaths very seriously especially one made on the
Holy Book.
Quddus responded faithfully to the oath. The Babis marched out.
They were immediately seized and massacred except for a few who
were taken as slaves.
Quddus was spared only so that he could be brought back to his
hometown of Barfurush where he suffered an appallingly cruel
martyrdom. A street mob made knife cuts in his body and filled the
wounds with lit candles. In his dying moments he asked for forgiveness
for his tormentors.110
When she heard about the events at Tabarsi, Tahirih wanted to
disguise herself as a man and join the others, but Jinab-i-Baha
discouraged her from going.111

The Chosen Path

Tahirih spent 1849 under his protection living in various towns and
villages in Mazindaran. The Prime Minister of Persia considered
Tahirih a wanted Babi rebel, and near the year’s end, government
agents found her in a farmhouse and killed her host on the spot.112
She was taken back to Tihran as a prisoner to begin the last phase
of her life.

The Chosen Path

Chapter 13 ~ Martyrdom of the Bab
In January 1850, Tahirih was brought to Tihran as a prisoner.
This sprawling capital city of over one hundred thousand people
lay on a flat plain. The foothills of the Alborz Mountains rose up in the
north. Long paths connected it to the villages and countryside. The
palace of the king, government buildings, and the major bazaars were
built in the foothills north of the city.
The wealthy also constructed their mansions with private gardens
up in the foothills where the weather was mild and where they were in
closer proximity to the royal family. Jinab-i-Baha’s father had an estate
there named ‘the abode of the birds’.
The vast majority of people lived in the south part of Tihran. That
section of the city was a jumble of small buildings and uneven and
mostly unpaved streets and alleys. The poor lived in crowded streets
that stunk of animal and human waste. It smelled especially bad during
the hot and dusty summer months. Though Jinab-i-Baha was wealthy,
he and his new wife spent much time serving the poor in south
Tihran.113
Tahirih was soon summoned to an interview with the Prime
Minister and the King.114 The King must have been very impressed by
her, because he may have offered to make her one of his wives. She
rejected the King’s offer.
Tahirih was placed under house arrest in the home of the mayor of
Tihran.115 Because of the respect in which she was held, she was
allowed to visit certain other homes.116
The wife of the Mayor became devoted to Tahirih, and many of the
aristocratic women of Tihran came over to learn from her.117
One of those women was a prominent poet, Shams-i-Jahan, the
grand-daughter of a former King of Persia.118 She arrived at the
Mayor’s house, stepped into the inner courtyard and crossed over to
the building where Tahirih was being held on the second floor. She
said a prayer asking God that if Tahirih’s teachings were true, she
would be allowed to see her. Then a second-floor window opened.
Tahirih appeared in it “like a brilliant sun” and called down to her.
Overcome with emotion, the princess began to cry. Tahirih smiled. The

The Chosen Path

princess asked her about her imprisonment. Tahirih answered that it
was because she proclaimed the truth. The princess understood that
this “truth” was the teachings of the young Siyyid from Shiraz.
Suddenly, their conversation was cut off by guards. The princess had to
leave but longed to continue their talk on these spiritual questions.119
Tahirih generated excitement among the prominent women of the
capital.
One evening, a wedding feast was held in the Mayor’s house for his
son. Decorations hung everywhere. Singers and musicians were
brought in. Princesses and wives of important government officials
came dressed in all of their finery. The celebration got under way with
music playing and food being served. The women sent a message to
the mayor—men and women were separated from one another—
asking that he allow Tahirih to come and speak to them.
Tahirih entered with great dignity and spoke with such power that
the women forgot the wedding. She moved them to tears as she
recounted her trials and tribulations and then comforted them with
humorous stories. She finished by walking among them chanting her
poems. After this night, even the maids and helpers in the home
became deeply attached to Tahirih.120
But it was around this time that Tahirih would be dealt a blow that
would break her heart.
The authorities had determined that the time had come to destroy
the Babi Faith which was only becoming more and more popular. This
undermined the power of the clergy.
The Bab may well have known that his own days were coming to
an end.
He wrote letters of instruction to important disciples, calling on
them to carry out specific missions. He sent a locked coffer to his most
important disciple, Jinab-i-Baha, which contained letters, seals, pens
and pen-cases, and rings.
In those days, letters were written in beautiful calligraphy,
decorative handwriting that is like drawing letters and was greatly
respected among Persians. Pens or brushes were dipped in ink to create
the beautiful script. When a letter was finished, it would be closed with
wax on which a person pressed their seal to show that it was from
them.

The Chosen Path

The Bab wrote in a refined calligraphy. His letters were small and
graceful. He wrote one message on a scroll of delicate blue paper which
was made up of 500 verses with 360 derivations of the word ‘Baha’
written in the form of a pentacle, a five-pointed star in a circle.121
In fact, the authorities had decided that the time had come to
execute the Bab. They believed that by killing the person who was the
head of the Faith and its prophet, the Faith would die. The death
warrant was signed.
On July 9th, 1850, the Bab, the young man who had caused a
spiritual revolution, was executed by a firing squad in Tabriz along with
a young Babi who had begged to ascend with him.
The Bab had once described himself this way:
“I am the Mystic Fane, which the Hand of Omnipotence hath
reared. I am the Lamp which the Finger of God hath lit within
its niche and caused to shine with deathless splendor. I am the
Flame of that supernal Light that glowed upon Sinai in the
gladsome Spot, and lay concealed in the midst of the Burning
Bush.”122
Tahirih wrote this poem which shows how she must have felt
during this painful period. Here, she returns to a theme often expressed
with great power in her poetry—separation from the Beloved:
“…Lift me, love, on the wings of my desire
Lift me to you, to safety in your fire
Only take me up, away from this place
Set me down in the place that is no place
Yet keep me close to you, far from strife,
since in this empty world, I have no life ”123
Soon, the time came when Tahirih would join her Beloved.

The Chosen Path

Chapter 14 ~ Martyrdom of Tahirih
On August 15th, 1852, several Babis attempted to kill the King of
Persia while he was out for a ride. Jinab-i-Baha had warned them in the
strongest terms not to take such an action. Taking revenge was against
the teachings of the Bab. But they did not listen.
The men had pulled him off his horse and shot at him. The gun
was so poorly made that it malfunctioned. The King was not badly
hurt, but the attack traumatized him. He unleashed a great persecution
of the Babis throughout his kingdom.
Jinab-i-Baha was taken on foot and in chains down to the capital
under a broiling sun and past the shouts and jeers of onlookers on the
road. The people of Tihran were in a frenzy.124
The authorities also turned on Tahirih who had been under house
arrest in Tihran.
Two important clerics were chosen to question her.125 They
concluded that her views were heretical, and they sentenced to death.126
One day, the wife of the mayor came up to her room to see her.
The fragrance of perfume filled the air. Tahirih told her that she was
going to meet her beloved—the time of her martyrdom was coming
soon. When that time came, she wished her body to be placed in the
ground and covered over. The wife of the mayor became filled with
anxiety upon hearing this; she had grown to truly love her guest.
Tahirih instructed her not to allow anyone else into her room
because she wanted to fast and pray now. The wife of the mayor, in
fear over the loss of the woman she loved, went repeatedly up to her
room to listen for sounds. She could hear Tahirih chanting.
Three hours after sunset, soldiers cleared the streets around the
mayor’s house. No one must witness them taking Tahirih out. They
were ordered to fire on anyone who approached.
At four hours after sunset, soldiers arrived at the door of the
mayor’s house and demanded that Tahirih come with them. The
frightened mayor’s wife approached her room trembling. Tahirih
emerged dressed in her finest clothes, veiled and perfumed as if she
was going to an event of the greatest importance.

The Chosen Path

Before going downstairs, she gave the mayor’s wife the key to a
chest of her belongings and told her that these objects were to help her
to remember her gladness at the hour of martyrdom. Tahirih asked that
the son of the mayor accompany her to make sure that the soldiers did
not handle her body and to act as a go-between for her.
Downstairs, the soldiers waited with a horse for the prisoner. A
cloak was put over her for a disguise.
They rode through the dark streets until they reached the Ilkhani
garden outside the gate of the city. There, an army officer and his
soldiers were drinking. The son approached the officer who ordered
that Tahirih be executed. The son went with two men and gave them
her handkerchief to be used for this purpose.
Among her last public words, she issued this powerful prediction:
“You can kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the
emancipation of women.”127
The men strangled her. Then the mayor’s son and several others
lowered her body into an empty well and covered it with stones and
dirt. Everyone dispersed.128
Behind them, they left the body of one of the most extraordinary
women in the spiritual and cultural history of Persia.
The Baha’i history, God Passes By, wrote that she had followed
“…the path she chose for herself, and from which she never swerved
from the moment of her conversion to the hour of her death.”129
Back at the mayor’s mansion, his wife leaned over the chest
containing the few items Tahirih had left behind in this world:
“…as I stood beside her chest, wondering what could have
induced so great a woman to forsake all the riches and honours
with which she had been surrounded and to identify herself
with the cause of an obscure youth from Shiraz. What could
have been the secret, I thought to myself, of the power that
tore her away from her home and kindred, that sustained her
throughout her stormy career, end eventually carried her to her
grave? Could that force, I pondered, be of God? Could the
hand of the Almighty have guided her destiny and steered her
course amidst the perils of her life?”130
But, to Tahirih, this death was life itself, separation from her
Beloved was the real death. Her death meant reunion with him.

The Chosen Path

Martyrdom was the last gift she could give to express her love for the
Bab:
“I will lay my head in the dust before your face.
My idol, this is the holy law I embrace.
…No life flows from my soul, my tomb brings no ending.
To be with you is life, and separation death.
As I lay dying, your lips moved to speak a word
Of care, and that is the one thing that gives me breath.”131

The Chosen Path

Questions by Chapter for Further Thinking
Chapter 1:
1) What does the word persevere mean? Is it good to persevere?
Why or why not? Is there something in which you would like to
persevere?
2) What is the Holy Book of Islam?
3) How was Tahirih’s family different from other families in her
society?
4) Is education important? Why or why not? Is it important for
both boys and girls to be educated? Why or why not?
Chapter 2:
1) How did people become married in Tahirih’s time? How is
different from today?
2) What is a dowry? Why were these paid?
Chapter 3:
1) Who was the Imam Husayn? Why is he important in Islamic
history?
2) Who are the Imams?
3) Who is the head of the Christian religion? Who is the head of
the Baha’i Faith?
Chapter 4:
1) What is Shaykhism and who was its founder?

The Chosen Path

2) What is reason? Give several examples of a person using
‘reason’. Can a person have religious beliefs and be reasonable?
Why or why not?
3) How did the men in her family react to the Shaykhi teachings?
Chapter 5:
1) Mullah Husayn was on a search. Whom was he seeking? What
does it mean to seek?
2) What convinced Mullah Husayn that the Bab was the Promised
One? What did the Bab tell Mullah Husayn would happen
next?
Chapter 6:
1) What did Tahirih see in her dream? How did she become a
follower of the Bab?
2) What title was she given by the Bab?
3) Do you believe dreams having meaning? Why or why not?
Chapter 7:
1) What is a rumor? Why is it harmful to spread them? Can you
give an example?
2) Why is backbiting wrong? What can you do if you hear
someone backbiting?
3) In response to the rumors about Tahirih, how did the Bab
describe her?
Chapter 8:

The Chosen Path

1) How can religion divide people? Give examples. How can
religion unite people? Give examples. Why does religion
sometimes divide people?
2) Why were Tahirih’s offers of public debate always rejected?
Chapter 9:
1) What is persecution? Why is wrong? For what reasons are some
groups of people persecuted? Can you think of examples of
famous persecutions?
2) How did Tahirih react to the persecutions of the Babis? What
would you have done?
Chapter 10:
1) How did the Bab’s presence at Mah-Ku and Chihriq affect the
local people? Why do you think the Bab had this effect?
2) What is the Holy Book revealed by the Bab? What is the Holy
Book of Islam? Of Christianity? What is a ‘Holy Book’ and
what makes it special compared to other books?
Chapter 11:
1) Who organized the Conference at Badasht?
2) Why was the Conference of Badasht held?
3) What did the Babis decide?
4) What is the significance of Tahirih removing her veil?

The Chosen Path


Chapter 12:
1) Why were the Babis under attack at Fort Tabarsi?
2) Why was Mullah Husayn leading a group of Babis across the
country?
3) What does it mean to ‘proclaim a message’?
Chapter 13:
1) What effect did Tahirih have on the women of Tihran? Why do
you think she had this effect?
2) Why was the Bab put to death?
3) What are several of the phrases Shoghi Effendi uses to describe
the Bab?
Chapter 14:
1) Does religion allow violence? Have people committed violence
in the name of religion? Why? Can you think of examples?
2) Was Tahirih frightened of dying? Why or why not?
3) What some words or phrases you would use to describe
Tahirih? Why did you choose those?

The Chosen Path

Endnotes

1 Nabil-i-Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers: Nabil's Narrative of the Early Days of
theBahá'í Revelation, Translated by Shoghi Effendi (Wilmette, IL: Baha'i
Publishing Trust,1932), 84 f. 1.
2 Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, the Making of the Babi Movement in
Iran, 1844-1850 (Ithaca, NY: Cornell U. Press, 1989), 318.
3 Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fádil-i Mázandarání. Zuhúr al-Haqq, Volumes 1–4. Tihrán,
Iran: Bahá’í Publishing

Trust, 1973. 306.
4 Afsaneh Najmabadi, “EDUCATION xxv. WOMEN’S EDUCATION IN THE
QAJAR PERIOD,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater,
accessed October 18, 2013,
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/education-xxv-womens-education-in-the-
qajar-period.
5 Vahid Rafati, The Development of Shaykhi Thought in Shi’i Islam (PhD
Dissertation, UCLA, 1979, unpublished), 9.
6 Ibid., 42.
7 106-122.
8 Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
196.
9 Moojan Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations of a Qazvin
family.” Iranian Studies  volume 36, # 3 (2003): 317-337. 323.
10 The above quotations and information are taken from Zarandi, 39-45.
11 Ibid., 65.
12 ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Memorials of the Faithful. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i publishing Trust,
1971. 192.
13 Zarandi, 193.
14 Mázandarání, 313.
15 Balyuzi, H. M.. The Bab. Oxford: George Ronald, 1973. 26.
16 Zarandi, 56.
17 Amin Banani, and Jascha Kessler. A portrait in poetry. Edited by Anthony Lee.
Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2004. 75.
18 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 190.
19 Ibid, 193.
20 193.
21 John Hatcher and Amrollah Hemmat. The Poetry of Tahirih. Oxford:
George Ronald, 2002. 40.
22 Banani and Kessler, 51.

The Chosen Path


23 Abbas Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn: The Remover of the Veil.” In Tahirih
in history: Perspectives on Qurrat al-‘Ayn from East and West, edited by
Sabir Afaqi, 113-158. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2004. 149 f. 35.
24 Ibid., 118.
25 Mandarání, vol. 3, 252.
26 Nosratollah Mohammad Hoseini. Hadrat-i-Tahirih. Dundas, Ontario, Canada:
Association for

Baha'i Studies in Persian, 2000. 200.
27 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 124.
28 Balyuzi, 163.
29 According to Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 151 f. 77, the Bab’s reply came
in mid-1261 AH.
30 Hatcher and Hemmat, 102-3.
31 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn,” 126.
32 Ibid., 126, all the quotations in the paragraph.
33 Zarandi, 278.
34 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 125-6, f. 86.
35 Root, Martha. Táhirih, the pure. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1981. 61.
36 Balyuzi, 162.
37 Ibid., 163.
38 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 127.
39 Ibid., 127.
40 127.
41 130.
42 130.
43 Root, 64.
44 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 130.
45 Ibid., 130.
46 130.
47 Balyuzi, 164.
48 Root, 64.
49 Ibid., 64.
50 Mandarání, v. 3, 310.
51 Mehrdad Amanat, Jewish Identities in Iran: Resistance and Conversion to Islam
and the Baha’i Faith (I.B. Taurus: NY, NY 2011), 95.
52 Ibid., 235 n. 28.
53 165.
54 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 133.
55 Root, 69.
56 Ibid., 70.
57 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 197.

The Chosen Path


58 Zarandi, 195.
59 Ibid., 195-6.
60 196.
61 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 333.
62 Zarandi, 196.
63 Ibid., 197.
64 197.
65 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 198.
66 Zarandi, 197.
67 Samandar, 54.
68 Hoseini, 238.
69 Samandar quoted in Root, Táhirih the pure, 74-75.
70 Balyuzi, 166.
71 Zarandi, 203.
72 Ibid. 203.
73 Root, 76.
74 Ibid., 76.
75 Zarandi, 173-4.
76 Ibid., 176.
77 219-221.
78 226-7.
79 229.
80 230.
81 231.
82 232-233.
83 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 200.
84 David S. Ruhe, Robe of Light, the Prophetic Years of the Supreme
Prophet Baha’u’llah 1917-1852 (Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1994) 83-4.
85 Root, 81.
86 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 200.
87 200.
88 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 211.
89 Shoghi Effendi, 31.
90 The Qur’an, Surah 74:8 and 6:73, quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of
the Faithful, 201.
91 Shoghi Effendi, 33-4.
92 Ibid., 33-34.
93 32.
94 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 213.

The Chosen Path


95 Banani and Kessler, 49.
96 The Qur’an, Surah 56, quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 201.
97 Zarandi, 213.
98 214.
99 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 201.
100 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 211.
101 Shoghi Effendi, 31-2.
102 Hoseini, 176.
103 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 211.
104 Ruhe, 91.
105 Ibid., 40-1.
106 Zarandi, 235-7.
107 Moojan Momen, The Social Basis of the Babi Upheavals in Iran (1848-1853):
A Preliminary
Analysis (United States of America: Int. J. Middle East Stud. 15,
1983, 157-183). 161.
108 Zarandi, 237-48.
109 Ibid., 250-257.
110 259-298.
111 Root, 88.
112 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 157 f. 179.
113 Ruhe, 24, 50-2.
114 Root, 95-96.
115 Shoghi Effendi, 74.
116 Ruhe, footnote, 111.
117 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 202.
118 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 143 f. 179.
119 Jinab-i-Avarih, Star of the West vol. 14, No 12 (1924): 359-360.
120 Abdu’l-Baha, 202.
121 Shoghi Effendi, 69.
122 The Bab, Selections from the Writings of the Bab, (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982) 74.
123 Banani and Kessler, 92-93.
124 Ruhe, 146-7.
125 Shoghi Effendi, 74.
126 Ibid., 74.
127 75.
128 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, 203-204.
129 Shoghi Effendi, 76-7.
130 Zarandi, 458-9.
131 Banani and Kessler, 73.

The Chosen Path
