Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book I I

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfá n re p re s e n t the views of their authors.
Re p roductions from this compilation are permitted prov i d e d
that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central St re e t
Evanston, IL 60201
U S A
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3502
E-mail: iayman@usbnc.org
Lights of ‘Irf á n
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Se m i n a r s
Book Tw o
Sp o n s o red by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fu n d
158 B.E. 2001 C.E.
Copyright© 2001, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fu n d
Pre p a red by Trey & Lynne Ya n c y
t e x a s e m b a s s y @ e a rt h l i n k . n e t

Lights of ‘Irf á n
I
mmerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may unravel its secrets,
and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its depths. Take heed that
ye do not vacillate in your determination to embrace the truth of this Cause — a Cause
t h rough which the potentialities of the might of God have been revealed, and His
sovereignty established.
— B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 326

Lights of ‘Irf á n

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Table of Contents
Preface  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i i i
Pe rce p ti on Into Faith: A Rad i cal Dis con tinuity Wi t h in Unity
Will i am Bar n e s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
An Intro duc ti on to the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al (Dis course of The Te mpl e)
Moh am ad Ghasem Bayat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
The Firm Cord of Serv i t ude
T h eo Cop e  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
The Hum an Inte ll ec t: A Bahá’í -in s pired Pe rs p ec tive
Adr i an John Dav is  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
The Pe r fect Man and the Man i fe s tati on of God
Y.A. Ioann e s yan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
The Mys tic Cup: The Essenti al Mys ti cal Nat ure of the Bahá’í Fa i t h
L e Roy Jon e s  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
A Short Poem by “Darvís h” Mu ˙ amm ad, Bahá’u’ lláh :
Sáqí az ghayb -i baqá bur qa‘ bar a fk an az ‘idhár
An Intro duc ti on and Three Ve rsi ons of Prov isi on al English Tran s l ati on s
Frank l in D. Lewis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
The Tablet of Unity (L aw ˙ -i It ti˙ád)—A Prov isi on al Tran s l ati on
Mo ojan Mom e n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Comm e n tary on the Qur ánic Ve rses Conce r n in g
the Ove r t hrow of the By z an tin e s: The Stages of the Soul
Mo ojan Mom e n  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
“W h at I Want to Say is Wordl e s s”: Mys ti cal Lan g u age, Re ve l ati on and Schol ars h i p
I s m ael Ve l a s co . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Ke ys to the Proper Unde rs tand ing of Islám in The Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh
Br i an A. Wi t t m an  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
E lucid ati on s
“Poin t” and “L e t te r” in the Wr i tin gs of the Bá b
Muh amm ad Afn an  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149
i

Lights of ‘Irf á n
i i

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Pre f a c e
‘I
r f án* Colloqu i um compl e ted its eighth year of ac tiv i ties in the year 2000. Dur ing these eight years
a total of 32 sessi ons of the colloqu i um we re held in Europe and North America. ‘I r f án colloqu i a
and semin ars are held separately in the English and Pe rsi an lan g u age s. Dur ing the year 2000 a total
of 103 pre s e n tati ons on var i ous a s p ec ts of the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh and on topics re l ated to fund a-
m e n tal pr inci ples of the Bahá’í be l i efs or comparative studies of re l i gi ons we re made at these gat h e r in gs.
The main a ims and obj ec tives of ‘I r f án Colloqu i um ac tiv i ties and semin ars are to promote be t te r
unde rs tand ing of the fund am e n tal pr inci ples of the Bahá’í be l i efs, sys te m atic and deeper study of the
B ahá’í holy te xts, and comparative studies of world re l i gi ons in re l ati on to the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
Since its ince p ti on in 1993, ‘I r f án Colloqu i um has been supp or ted mainly by the Haj Me hd i
A r j m and** Me mor i al Fund, which is adm in is te red through the Bahá’í Nati on al Cente r’s Off i ce of the
Trea surer in the United State s. In 1998 a schol arship fund don ated in memory of Nadia Sa ad at*** was in i-
ti ated to facil i tate the par ti ci pati on of youth and people from fin anci ally less pr iv il eged coun t r i e s.
Li g h ts of ‘I r f án, Book II con ta ins te xts of pap e rs pre s e n ted at the ‘I r f án Colloquia and Semin ars in
the year 2000 that we re received for publ i cati on by the end of that year. Four of the pap e rs in this vol-
ume we re pre s e n ted at the ‘I r f án Semin ar and deal with the Bahá’í holy te xts: “An Intro duc ti on to the
Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al (Dis course of the Te mpl e)” by Moh amm ad Ghasem Bayat; “Tablet of Unity (L aw ˙ -i-
It ti˙ád)—A Prov isi on al Tran s l ati on” by Mo ojan Momen; “A Short Poem by “Darvís h” Mu ˙ amm ad ,
B ahá’u’ lláh: Sáqí az ghayb -i-b a qá bur qa’ bar a fk an az ‘idhár” by Frank Lewis; and “‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s
C omm e n tary on the Qur ánic Ve rses Conce r n ing the Ove r t hrow of the By z an tin e: The Stages of the
S oul” by Mo ojan Mom e n .
A second group of pap e rs are re l ated to var i ous topics deal ing with mys ti cism and the Bahá’í Fa i t h :
“The Mys tic Cup: The Essenti al Mys ti cal Nat ure of the Bahá’í Fa i t h” by LeRoy Jones; “‘W h at I Want to
Say is Wordl e s s’: Mys ti cal Lan g u age, Re ve l ati on and Schol ars h i p” by Ismael Ve l a s co; “The Firm Cord of
S e rv i t ude” by Theo Cope; and “The Hum an Inte ll ec t: A Bahá’í -I n s pired Pe rs p ec tive” by Adr i an John
Dav is.
The last three pap e rs deal with var i ous subj ec ts re l ated to the pr inci ples of Bahá’í be l i efs and the
Fa i t h’s re l ati onship with other world re l i gi on s: “The Chain of Proph ec y: Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on as a
T h eory of Re l ativ i t y” by Za id Lundbe rg; “Pe rce p ti on Into Faith: A Rad i cal Dis con tinuity Wi t h in Unity”
by Will i am Barnes; and “Ke ys to the Proper Unde rs tand ing of Islám in The Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh”
by Br i an Wi t t m an .
Beginn ing with this volume a new sec ti on, ti t l ed ELUCI DATIONS has been added, con ta in ing in for-
m ati on and expl an atory notes and comm e n ts. The first item publ is h ed in this sec ti on is “‘Poin ts’ and
‘L e t te rs’ in the Wr i tin gs of the Báb” by Muh amm ad Afn an. We lo ok forward to receiv ing add i ti on al sub-
m is si ons for this sec ti on in the fut ure.
These pap e rs present the views and unde rs tand in gs of their aut h ors. The te xts of the pap e rs are pub-
l is h ed as prov ided by the aut h ors without further ed i ting; therefore, they do not follow the same styl e s
or schol arly approac h e s. They are publ is h ed in this volume accord ing to the alph abe ti cal order of the
n ames of the aut h ors. Ab s t rac ts of all the pre s e n tati ons made at the colloquia and semin ars are publ is h ed
in separate book l e ts.
I raj Ay m an
C h i cago, March 2001
* ‘I r f án is a Pe rsi an-A rabic word refe r r ing to mys ti cal, theolo gi cal, and spir i t u al reco g n i ti on and knowl ed ge.
** Haj Me hdi Arjmand (1861-1941) was a dis tin g u is h ed Bahá’í schol ar of the Bibl i cal studies and a prom inent teacher of the
B ahá’í Faith in Iran .
*** Nadia Sa ad at (1956-1994) was a young Bahá’í de e ply de voted to studies in the Bahá’í Faith and promoti on of the Bahá’í
teac h in gs.
i i i

Lights of ‘Irf á n

Pe rception Into Fa i t h
Perception Into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity Within Unity
by William Barnes
A
n yone fam il i ar with the New Te s tament synop tic Gospels knows that diffe re nces over the life and
ge n ealo gy of Chr ist exist in their accoun ts. One cur i ous example of this is their treatment of the
e ve n ts taking pl ace around the cruci f ixi on of Jesu s. All four menti on that two other ind iv idu al s
we re strung up with Him, one to either side. John simply menti ons them, except to re p ort that late in
the a fte r no on they had their legs broken so they might not lin ger in to the follow ing day and have their
g roans spoil eve ryb o d y’s Sabb ath. Mat t h e w, fa i t h ful to the earlier penn ed account of Mark, re p or ts the
add i ti on al pi ece of bi o g raphy that these two ind iv idu als we re thieves, and goes on to in form us that ,
bl ind to the last, these unre p e n tant souls went to their death jeering Chr is t. But Luke has a diffe re n t
ve rsi on of wh at tran s pired be tween these three dying figure s. Luke says that one thief truly reco g n iz ed
C hr ist and a s ked that Chr ist re m e mber him when He came in to His heave nly kin gdom. His re ward for
t h is since re eleve n t h-h our re quest is Chr is t’s prom ise that the thief shall have ete r n al life alon gside Chr is t
in parad is e.
Such a wide var i ance is, I think, a re sult not of sloppy re p or ting of the fac ts, but of the diffe re n t
m ean in gs that the write rs or compil e rs of each gospel wis h ed to bring out of the eve n ts of the day. The
mo dern ske p ti cal te mper te nds to think that the accoun ts of Matthew or Mark prob ably have the essen-
ti al fac ts of the story right. If such fac ts are the real in te rest of the cruci f ixi on, then Luke, or wh o e ve r
w rote the gospel with his name at tac h ed to it, is ea sily dis m is s ed as just another propagand ist for a lot
of hok um ab out an a fte rl i fe. Yet Luke may have been te ll ing another kind of story. His ve rsi on mean s
to get reade rs to lo ok past a poor car p e n ter to see a Being so lov ing that even His own death agonies do
not stop the flow of compa s si on to ot h e rs, and that in the life and ac ti on of such a Being re sides the ke y
to eve rl a s ting life for all .
Maybe Chr ist did miraculously walk out of His tomb, but to give life to another at the moment of lo s-
ing His own is the real miracle and the real message of His mis si on. To ob ta in this eve rl a s ting exis te nce
p eople must, like the thief, see past the expir ing body call ed Jesus to the ete r n al Chr ist shin ing in
unc h an geable spl e ndor. To see Him as he saw Himself is the nece s sary re qu irement to be with Him. The
t h i ef redeems himself and his wh ole sor ry exis te nce in this single, fin al act of re voluti on ary perce p ti on,
and by this act this soci al misfit became an exe mpl ar, not only of eve ry man’s search for true life but
also of God’s delight in be s tow ing that life to wh om e ver since rely asks for it, at any moment and unde r
any set of circum s tances, no mat ter wh at the life lived to that mom e n t. Any dis cu s si on of the life- a ff ir m-
ing mis si on of the Prophet and His Words must make stories like this the cor n e rs tone of its arg um e n t.
Being one of the ce n t ral myths ab out hum an i t y, Luke’s account te lls us ab out more than one man. It
e xpl i cates the race.
Human Natures
The Holy Books te ll us that the hum an being is a doubl e-n at ured creat ure, wh e re the word nat ure
de notes the an im ating and organ izing power be h ind a reco g n iz able form of its e l f. Thus if the ind iv id-
u al is two nat ures he has two for m s. As far as this life is conce r n ed hum an bein gs are comp o s ed of a
body or outer for m, which comes forth from ear t h, and a soul or inner form which is sent forth from
e te r n i t y.1 Each re t urns in some form to its or i gin al hom e l and at deat h .

Lights of ‘Irf á n
But though double nat ured, eve ry ind iv idu al is, nevertheless, one enti t y: a unity struc t ured as a kind
of pol ar i t y — we’ ll re t urn to this word. Thus, as all the re l i gi ons te ll us, the hum an self is really two selve s
in re l ati on. One part is the an im al self, call ed the ego, the self bu ild ing up around and conce r n ing its e l f
with bodily exp e r i e nces and mate r i al life. The other is the spir i t u al self, the expre s si ons of the aware-
ness of ete r n i t y.
The an im al spirit incar n ate in the ego is the or i gin ator of eve ry t h ing selfis h, nar row and beastly in
m an. He nce the ego is not a par ti cul arly happy, fr i e ndly or ge n e rous fe llow. He is, in fact, wh at is mean t
by the trad i ti on al de si g n ati ons of Luci fe r, the light-b r in ger rising at the dawn of eve ry life to lead way-
fare rs a s t ray in to the path of self-love.
A nd as another name for this exec rable creat ure ind i cates, the ego is not really one pers on ality but a
“ l egi on” of “multi ple ide n ti ties born of pa s si on and de sire:”3 a raucous pande mon i um of con te n ti ous, con-
t rad i c tory, scream ing monke ys which give the app earance of eman ating from a single in te ll i ge nce and
h old ing to gether for some ove r-r id ing purpose only because they are a s s o ci ated with an obj ect exis tin g
w i t h in con ve n ti on ally known lim i ts of space and time, nam e l y, the body. He is the te nde ncy to self-w ill ,
c h aos and de s t r uc ti on: defe n sive, fre tful, sulky and murde rou s. He sees the world as an an archic scram-
ble a fter mate r i al com fort and security which can only be ob ta in ed either by those strong enough to
impose their will up on ot h e rs, or by those who live in strict accord ance with the strong man’s wis h e s.
In his largest form he is the Leviat h an of Hobbes and the Bible, and he is hu ge only because his mate r i-
al app e ti tes are in sati abl e. In his smallest form he is a wh in in g, wh e edl in g, hypochondr i ac pl ay ing on his
supp o s ed helplessness to get ot h e rs sympat h i e s. In either incar n ati on his concern is chiefly with hinde r-
ing ot h e rs fre edom and purpose to maxim ize his ow n .
In any form this satanic self is ob v i ously not wh at re l i gi ous scripture means by man’s true self, that
part of eve ry pers on sa id to be made in the im age and likeness of God. This second part of man is call ed
the ete r n al self and it, to o, can be sa id to have two par ts: an ind iv idu al i t y, or soul, metaph or i cally inh ab-
i ted by a greater creative spirit, call ed Hol y. Thus ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says that “m an has a soul in which dwe ll s
the div ine spir i t.”4 “The div ine a s p ect or spir i t u al nat ure ,” He says, “con sis ts of the breat hs of the Hol y
Spir i t.”5 These “b reat hs of the Holy Spir i t” are, in their broadest sense, Re ve l ati on from God. If this
d iv ine spirit is like the ocean, the ind iv idu al souls are like its wave s. We cannot conceive of an ocean
w i t h out waves, and we cannot conceive of waves inde p e ndently of the ocean .
The div ine spirit an im ating man’s ete r n al self is, accord ing to Bahá’í teac h in gs, the source of all nobl e
t h ou g h ts and emoti on, selfless ac ts and great visi on s. This ete r n al self is the te nde ncy in hum an bein gs
toward in teg rating and har mon izing the chaos of ego de sires in to un i f i ed, de ve loping pat te r n s. He is the
urge toward in f in i t y, all hum an a s pirati ons to be God-l ike in thought and ac ti on .
The ete r n al self is exube rant, selfless, a lover of fre edom, especi ally for ot h e rs, and is un i f i ed within
h imself toward this end for his own fre edom is guaran te ed in this effor t. He is conce r n ed with ete r n al
l i fe and spir i t u al ideal s. He is hu ge because he con ta ins all thin gs within him s e l f.6
The ete r n al world is mostly hidden and re l i gi on is meant to in form hum anity ab out it. The ete r n al self
is, to o, mostly hidden and the lives and words of the Proph e ts are meant to bring it to perce p ti on. Satan,
the ego, bein g, in ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s words, “the pro duct of hum an minds and of in s tinc tive te nde nci e s
toward error”7 is the doub ter of eternity and nobil i t y. The Bible calls him, cor rec t l y, the “accu s e r,”8 and
the Bahá’í Wr i tin gs “the bl am e r,”9 because he poin ts the fin ger at ot h e rs to pre vent his own and pr i or
sins being noti ced, and to pre vent ot h e rs from being in s pired by nobil i t y.
The ego is the first self we are aware of because we are first aware of mate r i al de sire s. Once estab-
l is h ed in the soul he loathes re nouncing his pr iv il eged posi ti on to man’s ete r n al self, who should right-
fully sit there. The drama of hum an life is to decide which of these two selves will get the upper hand .
T h is drama is pl ayed out by ac tors who have rad i cally diffe rent ideas ab out the nat ure of the pl ay its e l f.
T hus the Ma s ter state s: “In man there are two nat ures; his spir i t u al or higher nat ure and his mate r i al or
lower nat ure. In one he approaches God, in the other he lives for the world alon e. Signs of both of these
n at ures are to be found in men.”

Pe rception Into Fa i t h
The ego opposes the ete r n al self not because it is created evil, but because it can’t see ete r n i t y. It is a
te mp oral selfhood bound by te mp oral con s t ra in ts of thought and pa s si on. To such a pers on ality mate r-
i al com fort and power are the only thin gs it makes any sense pursu ing in a life dom in ated by the thou g h t
of imp e nd ing extinc ti on, in a world call ed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá “t h is van is h ing world, this death in life.”
I ncapable by himself of exp e r i e ncing an y t h ing other than the world and its laws, the ego thinks ete r n i-
ty is all a silly pi ece of im agin ati on ste mm ing from fr u s t rated hopes in life. He works to keep hum an
v isi on con f in ed within the cramp ed, glo omy vault of space and tim e. In such ways he becomes in
B ahá’u’ lláh’s words the “Ev il One” that “hinde reth the rise and ob s t r uc teth the spir i t u al pro g ress of the
c h ildren of men.”
As the emb o d iment of rad i cally opp o sing spir i t u al cond i ti ons, the hum an soul is in the paradoxi cal
p o si ti on of being as close to and as far away from God as it is possible for any creat ure to be. ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá puts it this way:
Man is in the highest deg ree of mate r i al i t y, and at the beginn ing of spir i t u al i t y — t h at is to say,
he is the end of imp e r fec ti on and the beginn ing of perfec ti on. He is at the last deg ree of dark-
ness, and at the beginn ing of light; that is why it has been sa id that the cond i ti on of man is at
the end of night and the beginn ing of day, mean ing that he is the sum of all the deg rees of
imp e r fec ti on, and that he possesses the deg rees of perfec ti on. He has the an im al side as we ll a s
the an gelic side, and the a im of the educator is to so tra in hum an souls that their an gelic a s p ec t
m ay ove rcome their an im al side. Then if the div ine power in man, which is his essenti al per-
fec ti on, ove rcomes the satanic powe r, which is ab s olute imp e r fec ti on, he becomes the mo s t
e xce llent among creat ure; but if the satanic power ove rcome the div ine powe r, he becomes the
lowest of the creat ure s. That is why he is the end of imp e r fec ti on and the beginn ing of perfec-
ti on. Not in any other of the species in the world of exis te nce is there such a diffe re nce, con-
t rast, con t rad i c ti on and opp o si ti on as in the species of man .13
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá is not say ing here that within man is a graded moral con tinuum stre tc h ing from compl e te
d arkness to total light in which the “e nd of imp e r fec ti on and the beginn ing of perfec ti on” are con ti g u-
ous poin ts. This would make man sin g l e-n at ured and uncon s ci ous like the an im al. He is say ing that man
is created morally doubl e-n at ured, and that “the end of imp e r fec ti on” and “the beginn ing of perfec ti on”
are pol ar and hierarc h i cal opp o si tes of light and dark struc t ur ing hum an nat ure. That is, they do not
form a compl e m e n tary pol ar i t y, but a con t rad i c tory on e.14 Light and dark are symb ols for ab s olute con-
d i ti ons of exis te nce, and though they stand in a kind of conj unc ti on in thought there can never be an y
t ran sfor m ati on al conn ec ti on be tween and un i ting them.
Spir i t u ally we live in both cond i ti ons at once. Movement is toward one or the other pure cond i ti on .
But this movement is like the rising movement from the world of sleep to the world of wakefulness and
the setting dec l ine of wakefulness to sleep. That is, one world simply and compl e tely re pl aces anot h e r.
T h e re is no brid ge. It is not a movement be tween si tes on the same pl ane of exis te nce, like the move-
ment be tween the bedro om in which one awakens and the ki tchen wh e re one pre pares break fa s t. The two
worlds of the soul express a rad i cal on tolo gi cal separati on, which cannot on these pre m ises be pap e red
over by any epis te molo gy of bein g. They are in “con t rast, con t rad i c ti on and opp o si ti on .”
T h e re is ab s olutely not h ing posi tive ab out being in “the highest deg ree of mate r i al i t y.” This is
“ab s olute imp e r fec ti on .” This is Satan the ego, the “lowest of creat ure s” because he in te n ti on ally com-
m i ts evil and con s ci ously leads ot h e rs to do the sam e. The “sum of the deg rees of imp e r fec ti on” is its
f in al deg re e. This is not the palest light of daw n, but the “last deg ree of darkn e s s ,” “the end of night”
or ultim ate moral bl ac kn e s s.
T h e re is eve ry t h ing posi tive ab out being the “beginn ing of spir i t u al i t y.” This is to be the “beginn in g
of light,” its or i gin and highest point from which all spir i t u al light in creati on eman ate s. The “begin-
n ing of perfec ti on” means to be the highest being in creati on because one latently “possesses the deg re e s
of perfec ti on .” This is “the beginn ing of day.”
Spir i t u all y, “light does not un i te itself with darkn e s s.”
15 T h is can only mean that, to o, darkness wan ts
no part of light. All ac ti on within the soul is therefore ap o cal y p tic. It is life or deat h .
16 A ll or not h in g.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
T h e re is no bot h /and, only ei t h e r/or at this level. Whoever is not with me is aga inst me, says the Chr is t.
T h e re can be no fe nce si t te rs. The luke warm are the most exec rabl e. Those with “lifeless hear ts” can neve r
approach Him. The gradu al is ts have no pl ace.
In an ap o cal y p tic world a pers on can be the incar n ati on of Satan his wh ole life, but on the cross of
e xtinc ti on he may see the Light, act and win ete r n al life. Like w ise a pers on may have been the incar n a-
ti on of pi ous de voti on yet, as Bahá’u’ lláh warns, “at the hour of his soul’s a s ce n si on, been so chan ged a s
to fall in to the nethermost fire.”
17 Because chan ge is all or not h ing at all in an ap o calypse, spir i t u all y
the smallest is the same as the large s t. He nce ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá a s s e r ts that: “For no veil is greater than ego-
tism and no mat ter how thin the cove r ing may be, yet will it fin ally veil man entirely and pre vent him
from receiv ing his por ti on of the ete r n al boun t y.”
18 A nd Chr ist can te ll His dis ci ples of worke rs in a field
wh e re the last to ar r ive at the end of the day get the same pay as the first to work at the crack of daw n .
Good Deeds Not Enough
The ap o cal y p tic on tolo gy of the Holy Books is the source of the Proph e ts con tinu ally poin ting to the
workin gs of the uncom for table ethical pr inci ple that good ac ti ons perfor m ed without knowl ed ge of
G o d — which do e s n’t mean ac ting solely with an eye to heave nly re ward, but with the unde rs tand ing that
r i g h teous ac ts are a pra ise of God and flow out from the promp tin gs of an ete r n al Self—such good ac ts ,
h owe ver pra is e worthy and helpful they may be, “cannot be the cause of ete r n al sal vati on” and “e n t rance
in to the Kin gdom of God”20 because they do not bring ab out a con s ci ous perce p ti on of ete r n i t y.21
An act done without this dim e n si on of awareness is not a perfect act, and one must be perfect “a s
your Father which is in heaven is perfec t”22 if one is to enter ete r n i t y. Now perfec ti on for hum an i t y, wh at-
e ver the moral ph ilo s oph e rs te ll us, can never mean without ethical bl e m ish. If being sta inless is the cri-
teria we are all going to be roa s ted, so we might as we ll get on enj oy ing wh at time we have here. Nei t h e r
can perfec ti on mean to do as we ll as God do e s. Not being God all hum an ac ts are by def in i ti on imp e r-
fec t. He re, the mec h an i cal workin gs of an ind i ffe rent, ab s t ract moral law would also autom ati cally dis-
patch eve ryone to hell .
But perfec ti on is some sense must be ac h i e vable since Chr ist sa id we are to be perfec t. A key to the
wh ole que s ti on lies in the word hol iness, which is wh ol e n e s s. A perfect act is a compl e ted on e. This do e s
not mean an act end ing in tim e. It means any act pred i cated up on the perce p ti on of ete r n i t y.
Eve ry kind of perce p ti on is through a facult y, sight through the eyes, hear ing through the ears ,
ab s t ract knowl ed ge through the in te ll ec t. The perce p t u al faculty through which hum an bein gs perceive
e ternity is the hum an heart, which do e s n’t mean the throbbing organ in the middle of the chest but the
s e n si tive receiver at the ce n ter of bein g. The heart is the conn ec ti on with eternity because Bahá’u’ lláh
says it is the “s eat of the re ve l ati on of the inner mys teries of God.”23
When Bahá’u’ lláh says, “O ur mis si on is to seize and possess the hear ts of men,”
24 He means His
Re ve l ati on will throw open “the do ors of the hear ts of men, which in reality are the do ors of heave n”
so that latent spir i t u al powe rs and perce p ti ons may awake n, enabl ing the soul to see ete r n al thin gs and
t h in gs ete r n all y, and to do ete r n ally effec tive ac ti on s.
The Man i fe s tati ons have all been chiefly conce r n ed with de ve loping this faculty of fa i t h, for fa i t h
which means knowl ed ge of God or the reco g n i ti on of His Man i fe s tati on and obed i e nce to His laws ,
de p e nds up on its healthy func ti on in g. Hum ankind has mostly ignored Them, and this fa ilure to perceive
wh at the Man i fe s tati ons we re te ll ing us ab out our true Self has cau s ed a dec l ine in the power of this fac-
ulty to perceive, and this causes man to lose faith in him s e l f.
The age- old dis pute over sal vati on by faith or works alone is fall aci ous since it ove rlo oks the fact that
faith is an inner act, a form of perce p ti on. Both faith and works are nece s sary for sal vati on, but faith is
f irst as a precond i ti on for spir i t u al work s. “By faith is meant, first, con s ci ous knowl ed ge, and second ,
the prac ti ce of good de ed s ,” says ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
28 “D e eds are second ary to faith in Him and ce r ti t ude in
H is Real i t y,” says the Báb.
29 O uter works are nece s sary as an expre s si on and de mon s t rati on, that is a com-
pl e ting and perfec tin g, of inner faith. It is faith that in s pires de eds, wh ile de eds real ize fa i t h .

Pe rception Into Fa i t h
Sal vati on by works alone says that, ideall y, good works must lead up to faith and then lead out from it.
T h is is true, but not in the sense of the moral con tinuum with the middle point separating the least evil
act from the least good on e. The soul, as we saw, is not on a moral con tinuum .
30 It is a conj unc ti on of
rad i cally opp o sing cond i ti ons of bein g, one te nd ing “towards moral subl imity and in te ll ec t u al perfec-
ti on, wh ile the other turneth to be s ti al deg rad ati on and car n al imp e r fec ti on s.”
31 The soul’s move m e n ts
are ap o cal y p tic. Faith is, in i ti all y, not a tran sfor m ing but a tran s muting ac t.
32 It redeems and compl e te s
those imp e r fect ac ts lead ing up to it and in forms those ac ts lead ing out from it. It compl e tes life by
rec reating and re n e w ing it, making it holy or wh ole, chan ging becom ing in to a form of bein g.
B ahá’u’ lláh state s: “W h o s o e ver ac knowl ed ged His truth and tur n ed un to Him, his good works out-
wei g h ed his mis de eds, and all his sins we re re m i t ted and forgiven. Thereby is the truth of these word s
conce r n ing Him made man i fe s t: ‘Sw i ft is He in rec kon in g.’ Thus God turneth in iquity in to righteou s-
ness, we re ye to explore the realms of div ine knowl ed ge, and fat h om the mys teries of His wis dom .”
Faith may come at any mom e n t. He nce there can be no criti cal mass of accumul ated good work s ,
which by sheer weight will autom ati cally swing open heave n’s do ors. If ete r n al life could be won this way,
then we may rightly re volt aga inst heave n’s ways when a pat h e ti cally wrong ind iv idu al like the thief win s
the grand pr ize simply through the lud i c rously good for t une of accide n tally being in the right pl ace at
the right time and say ing just the right thin g. But more than this, sal vati on by works alone makes the
Proph e ts and Their Me s sage ir re l e vant to re n e w ing and runn ing hum an soci e t y.
W h at makes an ac ti on hol y, or compl e te and perfect, is not, fin all y, any qu ality which the doer brin gs
to the ac ti on, such as purity of in te n ti on or eff i ci e ncy of executi on. What makes an ac ti on holy is God’s
acce p tance of it.34 For if we knew how to perform holy ac ti ons and did them, then God Himself would
become ir re l e vant for spir i t u al growth and ind iv idu al sal vati on .
Hol iness, or compl e ti on by div ine acce p tance, is wh at separates an act of faith from a merely go o d
ac t. Seeking div ine acce p tance is the essenti al a s p ect mis sing from good de eds perfor m ed by follow in g
“a mere co de of laws” whether soci e t y’s or on e’s ow n, since Bahá’u’ lláh says “all thin gs are de p e nde n t
up on His Will, and the worth of all ac ts is cond i ti on ed up on His acce p tance and pl ea sure.”35
To say de eds lead up to faith is therefore tec hn i cally mis l ead in g. One at ta ins faith by op e n ing a new
ce n ter of perce p t u al aware n e s s. And the perce p ti on which opens eternity to view was stated by Chr is t:
“W h o s o e ver will save his life shall lose it; and wh o s o e ver will lose his life for My sake shall find it.”36
I n i ti all y, faith is a conn ec ti on of love not effor t. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says:
For fa i t h, which is life ete r n al, is a sign of boun t y, and not the re sult of justi ce. The fl ame of
the fire of love, in this world of earth and wate r, comes through the power of at t rac ti on and not
by effort and striv in g. Nevertheless, by effort and pers e ve rance, knowl ed ge, sci e nce and ot h e r
p e r fec ti ons can be ac qu ired; but only the light of the Div ine Beauty can tran s p ort and move the
s pir i ts through the force of at t rac ti on .37
Of course any hum an i tar i an de ed is meritor i ous and is worthy of re s p ect and re ward. “For eve ry ac t
p e r for m ed there shall be a recompense accord ing to the estim ate of God,” says Bahá’u’ lláh .38 But ac ts car-
r i ed out with no real thought taken for the soul’s upl i ft express no con s ci ous spir i t u al i t y — t h at is, they
e xpress no at t rac ti on for God, only a form of soci all y- cond i ti on ed con s ci e nce. Thus even an in f inity of
movement toward “go o d” along the hor iz on tal soci al axis of good and evil ga ins one not a mill im e te r
of ve r ti cal lift toward ete r n i t y.39 Fur t h e r, the nearly perfect is as far away as the grossly imp e r fec t ,
because both are part of a diffe rent in te r n al order of being and aware n e s s. Any at tac hment to this world
is the lim i ting ego at work, and even at tac hment to the improvement of this world alone is a form of
t h is at tac hm e n t. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá puts the pr inci ple this way:
The found ati on of success and sal vati on is the knowl ed ge of God, and the re sults of the knowl-
ed ge of God are the good ac ti ons which are the fr u i ts of faith. If man has not this knowl ed ge ,
he will be separated from God, and when this separati on exis ts, good ac ti ons will not have com-
pl e te effec t …the found ati on is to know God, and the good ac ti ons re sult from this knowl ed ge.
(G)ood ac ti ons alone, without the knowl ed ge of God, cannot be the cause of ete r n al sal vati on,
e ve rl a s ting success, and pro s p e r i t y, and entrance in to the Kin gdom of God.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The thief on the cross perfor m ed the one rede mp tive act an ind iv idu al must perform to ga in ete r n i t y.
He saw Reality and gave himself over to it.
41 In this act he pur i f i ed (i .e., made hol y) his entire exis te nce
because he at ta in ed the real purpose of eve ry hum an life. He reco g n iz ed that since the Prophet sees de e p-
est in to Real i t y, His Me s sage alone def ines the good. He def ines the good as seeing as He does and seek-
ing a fter eternity or the Kin gdom of God, all other thin gs “s h all be added un to you” once this searc h
ge ts up in ear n e s t. It is to enable eve ry seeking soul to find the Kin gdom of God within him that the
Proph e ts come in to the world .
He nce we re t urn to the hill of Cal vary wh e re the thief finds that Chr is t’s prom ise of ete r n al life fol-
lows imm ed i ately up on his just awake n ed perce p ti on of eternity emb o d i ed in Him, as it did just as sud-
de nly up on Pe te r’s dec l arati on of the Sonship of Chr is t. Some kind of re voluti on ary leap is ind i cated in
t h is story, and it is wor t h wh ile in qu ir ing in to wh at happ e n ed within the soul of that thief in that hol y
mom e n t. This will prov ide us with some compre h e n si on of the nat ure of faith and with some unde r-
s tand ing of spir i t u al growth and re sur rec ti on. To o, we shall find that the con t rad i c tory pol ar opp o si ti on
t h at con s ti t utes hum an nat ure and that div ided the ethical ac ti on also div ides in to levels of perce p ti on .
The Revolutionary Leap
Eve ry hum an being is born in to a dying world, and for as long as he ide n tifies himself with that world
and its lim i tati ons he, to o, is a dying form of life, capable only of de l ay ing but not ove rcom ing the pull
of nat ure toward extinc ti on. To live ete r n ally the ind iv idu al must be gran ted the gi ft of fa i t h, for the
Ma s ter te lls us that the “m ean ing of ete r n al life is the gi ft of the Holy Spir i t.”42 It is ob ta in ing the powe r
of true visi on. This is a visi on, howe ver incompl e te, not of the fut ure but of Reality—the kind of exp e-
r i e nce we mean when we say thin gs like “the veil lifted” or “the scales fe ll from my eye s.” So far as per-
ceiv ing eternity is conce r n ed, Bahá’u’ lláh in forms us that “none dis cerneth in this day save those wh o
h ave been gran ted visi on by this subl ime Beaut y.”43
The Bahá’í Wr i tin gs call ente r ing in to con s ci ous commun i on with the Holy Spirit ente r ing in to the
s pirit of faith. Being a conn ec ti on be tween two sentient spir i ts, howe ver rad i cally diffe rent in essence ,
fa i t h, then, is a higher way of perce p ti on and know in g, not a bot tomless mental ab yss in to which on e
must bl indly plummet so that Prov ide nce can de mon s t rate its ability to re s cue hum an bein gs from their
worst su i cid al te nde nci e s. Faith is a spir i t u al re sur rec ti on or move in to a larger mental exis te nce. Fa i t h
e xpands not de m ands the in te ll ec t u al powe rs of the soul. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says some ext raord in ary thin gs
ab out souls in this state of exis te nce:
The fourth deg ree of spirit is the heave nly spir i t; it is the spirit of faith and the bounty of God;
it comes from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and by the div ine power it becomes the cause of
e te r n al life. It is the power which makes the ear t hly man heave nl y, and the imp e r fect man per-
fec t. It makes the impure to be pure, the silent eloque n t; it purifies and sanc tifies those made
cap tive by car n al de sires; it makes the ignorant wis e.44
In another pl ace He de s c r ibed this state more full y:
But the spirit of faith which is of the Kin gdom con sis ts of the all- compre h e nd ing grace and the
p e r fect at ta inment and the power of sanc tity and the div ine efful ge nce from the Sun of Tr ut h
on lum inous light-s e e king essences from the pre s e nce of the div ine Unity. And by this Spirit is
the life of the spirit of man, when it is for ti f i ed thereb y, as Chr ist saith: ‘T h at which is born of
the Spirit is Spir i t.’ And this Spirit hath both re s ti t uti on and re t ur n, in a s much as it con sis ts of
the Light of God and the uncond i ti on ed grace. So, hav ing regard to this state and stati on, Chr is t
announced that John the Bap tist was Elias, who was to come before Chr is t. And the likeness of
t h is stati on is as that of lamps kindl ed: for these in re s p ect to their glasses and oil-h olde rs are
d i ffe rent, but in re s p ect to their light, One, and in re s p ect to their lum in ati on, One; nay, eac h
one is ide n ti cal with the ot h e r, without imputati on of plural i t y, or dive rsity or multi pl i city or
s e parate n e s s. This is the Tr uth and be yond Tr uth there is only error.
The spir i t u ally un e nl i g h te n ed hum an spirit, He says, “con sis ts of the rati on al, or lo gi cal, rea s on in g
facult y, which appre h e nds ge n e ral ideas and thin gs in te ll i gible and perce p tibl e.”
46 is part of the world and

Pe rception Into Fa i t h
l ives for it unless the spirit of faith is awake n ed and perce p ti ons of the reality of eternity are op e n ed .
T h is occurs only when the soul volun tar ily sur re nde rs itself to the Prophet and His Me s sage.
In the spirit of faith knowl ed ge is a direct perce p ti on of real i ties, wh at trad i ti on al ph ilo s oph e rs call ed
knowl ed ge of thin gs, not knowl ed ge ab out thin gs.
47 With direct perce p ti on there is no need of lo gi cal or
rati on al arg um e n ts, neither exp e r iment nor hypot h e sis is re qu ired .
48 For these in re l ati on to direct per-
ce p ti on are themselves veils of knowl ed ge, and not knowl ed ge its e l f. In direct perce p ti on the ind iv idu al
sees be h ind an expir ing body of thin gs call ed the mate r i al world to perceive their re veal ed forms stand-
ing within it. Compre h e n si on becomes appre h e n si on, because knowl ed ge is no lon ger conce p t u al but
e xis te n ti al, that is, a permanent part of on e’s exis te nce. Epis te molo gi call y, creati on is no lon ger pure l y
obj ec tive, i.e., an alien body of obj ec ts con fron ting the in qu ir ing in te ll i ge nce. But neither are these
obj ec ts purely subj ec tive. In fa i t h, creati on and rea s on form an ide n ti t y — two par ts of one unm ed i ated
un i t y, which is the basis of true unde rs tand in g.
The soul in the spirit of faith is a liv ing powe r. Such a soul, Chr ist sa id, was “a son of God” like Him,
t h ough to an incalcul ably lesser deg re e. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says: “The stati on which he who hath truly reco g-
n iz ed this Re ve l ati on will at ta in is the same as the one ord a in ed for such proph e ts of the house of Israe l
as are not regarded as Man i fe s tati ons ‘e ndowed with con s tanc y.’”49 A nd Bahá’u’ lláh says: “O My Servan t!
Obey Me and I shall make thee like un to Mys e l f. I say ‘Be ,’ and it is, and thou shalt say ‘Be ,’ and it shall
be.”50 Such souls, the Book of Re ve l ati on te lls us, “m ay have right to the tree of life.”51
Yet the soul that passes from the hum an spirit in to the spirit of faith unde rgoes no chan ge of nat ure
or alte rati on of essence. It re m a ins unc h an ged in its fund am e n tal real i t y, yet exp e r i e nces a tre m e ndou s
and conce n t rated in fu si on of powe r. This causes the ind iv idu al to re s e mble a fis si on ing atom, the inr u s h-
ing force kno c king him out of his establ is h ed orbit of exp e r i e nce in to another and larger one, tran s-
for m ing his ways of thought, perce p ti on and be h av i or and ac ting as the aut h ority for later ac ts and state-
m e n ts. He becomes a sate ll i te of a Greater Selfhood, orbi ting the Man i fe s tati on of God.52
In this new con f i g urati on of the psyche, wh at has occur red is not that a new ce n ter has come in to
bein g, but that the soul has come in to awareness of the ce n ter of itself that has al ways be e n, the Powe r
t h at is dr iv ing it. The exp e r i e nce of hav ing touc h ed on e’s essenti al hum an i t y, the in f in i te Selfh o o d
B ahá’u’ lláh says is “s tand ing within thee,”53 is usu ally de s c r ibed as an ec s ta s y, a word car ry ing ove r ton e s
of both conn ec tedness and separati on. It un i tes the ind iv idu al within himself and with the hum anity of
all, but div ides him from his fe llow bein gs who have not had this exp e r i e nce. Yet the aut h e n tic exp e r i-
e nce of eternity does not div ide the soul from his society by a qu ixotic withdrawal in to a pr ivate utopi a .
No, he joins wh at Sa int Au g u s tine call ed the Common wealth of the Sa in ts, for at its highest in te n si t y
the true re l i gi ous exp e r i e nce teaches or shows to the soul not just the reality of him s e l f, but real hum an-
ity as a kin gdom of power and glory of which fa i t h ful souls are its real membe rs and the Proph e ts its
real kin gs. This exp e r i e nce pre pares the soul, is its in i ti ati on, for a spir i t u al world wh e re souls “s h all
a s s o ci ate and commune in tim ately one with anot h e r, and shall be so closely a s s o ci ated in their live s ,
t h eir a s pirati ons, their a im and striv in gs as to be even as one soul .”54
Eve ry hum an being is born in to the world at birth and borne out of it by death. The def in ing a im of
the hum an spirit is the urge toward tran s ce nde nce. This urge is ful f ill ed by a sac r i f i ci al offe r ing of self,
which means the de l ibe rate at te mpt to make sac red some part of on e’s life, a tur n ing of pa s si on in to com-
pa s si on. What the soul has sac r i f i ced of its life is wh at re t urns to eternity at death. The ultim ate act of
t h is kind is to sac r i f i ce on e’s entire self; that is, to make on e’s entire life sac red, as the thief did. Onl y
in this act does the soul tran s ce nd all hum an lim i tati ons and ac h i e ve real ete r n al life, which is the onl y
kind of life that the Holy Books reco g n iz e.55 It is this perce p ti on that both brin gs and begins fa i t h .
Note s
1) “It is man i fest that be yond this mate r i al body, man is endowed with another real i t y, which is the world of exe mpl ars con-
s ti t uting the heave nly body of man ...T h is other and inner reality is call ed the heave nly body, the ethereal form which cor-
re s p onds to this body.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, 1982. The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, pp.
464–465.) The hum an soul, says Bahá’u’ lláh, “is, in its e l f, a te s timony that beareth witness to the exis te nce of a world
t h at is con tin gent, as we ll as to the reality of a world that hath neither beginn ing nor end .” (B ahá’u’ lláh, 1976. G l ean in gs
from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. Second Re v is ed Ed i ti on. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, pp. 161–162 .)

Lights of ‘Irf á n
2) “He truly is the false daw n, though be l i e v ing himself to be the true on e.” (B ahá’u’ lláh, 1969. Epistle to the Son of the
Wol f. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, p. 146) and “Satan, by which we mean the nat ural inc l in ati ons of the lowe r
n at ure. This lower nat ure in man is symb ol iz ed as Satan—the evil ego within us, not an evil pers on ality outside.” (‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá. Promul gati on. p. 287) And ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a ins the protean nat ure of “Satan” when he says: “E ndeavor to the
ut most to protect yours e l ves, because Satan app ears in diffe rent robes and app eals to eve ryone accord ing to each pers on’s
own way, un til he becomes like un to him (satan), then he will leave him alon e.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Star of the We s t, Vol. 13
#1 p. 20.
3) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, 1978. S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre, p. 76.
4) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, 1969. Par is Talk s. Eleventh Br i tish Ed i ti on. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, p. 25.
5) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Promul gati on, p. 41.
6) “Do all ye can to become wh olly weary of self, and bind yours e l ves to that Coun te n ance of Spl e ndours; and once ye have
reac h ed such hei g h ts of serv i t ude, ye will find, gat h e red within your shadow, all created thin gs.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S e l ec ti on s,
pp. 76–77)
7) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Promul gati on, p. 230.
8) The Book of Re ve l ati on 12:10.
9) “Be of them wh om the tumult of the world, howe ver much it may agi tate them in the path of their Creator, can neve r
sadde n, whose purpose the bl ame of the bl amer will never defeat.” (B ahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 281) “Supply me, then, with
wh at Thou hast written down for Thy chosen ones among Thy creat ures, wh om neither the bl ame of the bl am e r, nor the
c l amour of the in f idel, nor the estran gement of such as have withdrawn from Thee, hath de te r red from tur n ing toward s
T h e e.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Báb, Bahá’u’ lláh, 1967. B ahá’í Praye rs: A Selec ti on. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, #54 p. 59.
10) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Par is Talk s, p. 60.
11) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S e l ec ti on s, p. 176.
12) Bahá’u’ lláh, 1978. Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh Re veal ed After the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre, p. 87.
13) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, 1981. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, pp. 235 –236.
14) A compl e m e n tary pol arity is like that of hum an i t y, wh e re the compl e m e n ts, male and fe m ale, exist on the same pl an e ,
w i t h in the same Kin gdom. Compl e m e n ts work to gether and are at t rac ted to each ot h e r. As we say, “opp o si tes at t rac t.” In
a con t rad i c tory pol ar i t y, the “p ol e s” do not exist on the same pl ane, but are from diffe rent, i.e., higher and lowe r,
Kin gdoms of spir i t. They do not work to ge t h e r, but aga inst one anot h e r; each works to ove rcome the ot h e r. He re opp o-
si tes repel. Tran sfor m ati on is the cond i ti on of mor tality and the ete r n al does not become mor tal and vice-ve rsa. In anot h-
er pl ace ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá state s: “For the inner reality of man is a de m arcati on line be tween the shadow and the light, a pl ace
wh e re the two seas meet; it is the lowest point on the arc of de s cent and therefore is capable of ga in ing all the grade s
ab ove.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá quoted in B ahá’í Educati on: A Compil ati on. 1987. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, p. 23.)
15) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 170.
16) See, for example, Deute ronomy 30: 15 –19.
17) Bahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 266.
18) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Star of the We s t, Vol. 10, No. 3, p. 27.
19) Matthew 20:16
20) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 238.
21) The Bahá’í Wr i tin gs call this seeing with the eyes of God. See, for example, Bahá’u’ lláh, 1971. The Hidden Word s.
Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t. #44 Arabi c .
22) Matthew 5: 48.
23) Bahá’u’ lláh. The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, p. 192 .
24) Bahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 212 .
25) Bahá’u’ lláh. Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 173.
26) “The first duty pre s c r ibed by God for His servan ts is the reco g n i ti on of Him Who is the Day Spr ing of His Re ve l ati on
and the Foun ta in of His laws, Who re pre s e n teth the Godh ead in both the Kin gdom of His Cause and the world of cre-
ati on. Whoso ac h i e veth this duty hath at ta in ed un to all good; and whoso is de pr ived thereof, hath gone a s t ray, thou g h
he be the aut h or of eve ry righteous de ed. It be h oveth eve ry one who reacheth this most subl ime stati on, this summit of
t ran s ce ndent glory, to ob s e rve eve ry ord in ance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These tw in duties are in s e para-
bl e. Neither is acce p table without the ot h e r.” (B ahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, pp. 330–331) This two -fold obl i gati on is, in real i t y,
the two a s p ec ts of be l i ef. For out from the act of reco g n i ti on flow soci ally rede e m ing ac ts, the greatest of which is ge t-
ting ot h e rs to see Real i t y.
27) “Graci ous God! It was in te nded that at the time of the man i fe s tati on of the One true God the faculty of reco g n izin g
H im would have been de ve lop ed and mat ured and would have reac h ed its culm in ati on. Howe ve r, it is now clearly de mon-
s t rated that in the disbe l i e ve rs this faculty hath re m a in ed unde ve lop ed and hat h, inde ed, dege n e rated .” (B ahá’u’ lláh .
Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 52–53.
28) The Div ine Art of Liv in g: Selec ti ons from the Bahá’í Wr i tin gs. 1986. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, p. 61.
29) Báb. 1976. S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of the Bá b. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre, p. 133.
30) The works alone arg ument is really a works first arg um e n t. It grows from a dei f i cati on of soci e t y. It hin ges on the be l i ef
t h at the soci al law of right and wrong is a perfect im age of the life and death dichotomy of the soul. It is n’t. Eve r. Deed s
w i t h out faith move the soul along the right or left side of the axi al midp oint of soci al moral i t y. But a fter faith de ed s
re vol ve the soul toward the ce n ter of bein g, so that by effort souls perfect the perfect state. In purely spir i t u al terms the

Pe rception Into Fa i t h
p oint is not to perform enough good de eds to purchase a ti c ket to ete r n i t y, but to get free of the compul sive tyranny of
the soci al law that al ways crucifies the proph e ts.
“The first and fore most duty pre s c r ibed un to men, next to reco g n i ti on of Him Who is the Ete r n al Tr ut h, is the duty of
s tead fastness in His Cau s e. Cleave thou un to it, and be of them whose minds are fir mly fixed and grounded in God. No
act, howe ver meritor i ous, did or can ever compare un to it. It is the king of all ac ts, and to this thy Lord, the All-H i g h e s t ,
the Mo s t-Powe r ful, will te s ti f y...” (B ahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 290)
31) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S e l ec ti on s, p. 288.
32) Tran sfor m ati on is chan ging the form of a thing in to som e t h ing else in the same kin gdom of exis te nce. Tran s muting is
c h an ging the nat ure of the thin g. That is, there is tran sfor m ati on within cond i ti ons of exis te nce, but not be tween them.
A pro g re s sive tran sfor m ati on within a cond i ti on or Kin gdom of exis te nce re veals more compl e xity within the possibil i-
ties (qu al i ti e s) of de ve lopment of that cond i ti on, but no number of tran sfor m ati ons adds up to a tran s mutati on. A tran s-
mutati on re veals qu al i ties that cannot be man i fe s ted within the possibil i ties of a lower cond i ti on. The lower is not evil ,
but simply con s t ra in ed by inh e rent lim i tati ons from man i fe s ting the qu al i ties of the higher. Tran s mutati on is a diffe r-
e nce of not, not of deg re e. It is the kind of thing Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to when he says that the “task of con ve r ting satan i c
s t rength in to heave nly power is one that We have been emp owe red to accompl is h .” (B ahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 200)
33) Bahá’u’ lláh. The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, pp. 113–114.
34) “Man’s ac ti ons are acce p table a fter his hav ing reco g n iz ed (the Man i fe s tati on).” (B ahá’u’ lláh. Epistle to the Son of the
Wol f, p. 61) In one clear in s tance Bahá’u’ lláh writes, “For the doin gs of men are all de p e ndent up on Thy good pl ea sure ,
and are cond i ti on ed by Thy be h e s t. Shouldst Thou regard him who hath broken the fast as one who hath ob s e rved it, suc h
a man would be rec kon ed among them who from eternity hath been ke e ping the fa s t. And shouldst Thou dec ree that he
who hath ob s e rved the fast hath broken it, that pers on would be numbe red with such as have cau s ed the Robe of Thy
Re ve l ati on to be sta in ed with dust, and been far re moved from the crys tal wate rs of this liv ing Foun ta in ...the exce ll e nce
of all thin gs is de p e ndent up on Thy bidd ing and Thy word, and the vir t ue of eve ry act is cond i ti on ed by Thy leave and
the good pl ea sure of Thy will, and may reco g n ize that the reins of men’s doin gs are within the grasp of Thine acce p tance
and Thy comm andm e n t.” (B ahá’í Praye rs. 1991 ed i ti on. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t. pp. 262–263.)
35) Bahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 293.
36) Matthew 16 :25
37) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 130
38) Bahá’u’ lláh. Tabl e ts, p. 189. In another pl ace, Bahá’u’ lláh says: “He, ve r il y, will pay the doer of good, whether man or
wom an, his due recompense, wert thou to follow wh at hath been sent un to thee by Him Who is the All-K now in g, the
A ll-I n for m ed .” (B ahá’u’ lláh. Epistle, pp. 60– 61)
39) See ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, pp. 300–305.
40) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 238.
41) “K now thou that faith is of two kind s. The first is obj ec tive faith that is expre s s ed by the outer man, obed i e nce of the
l imbs and senses. The other faith is subj ec tive, the uncon s ci ous obed i e nce to the will of God. There is no doubt that, in
the day of a Man i fe s tati on such as Chr ist, all con tin gent bein gs possessed subj ec tive faith and had uncon s ci ous obed i-
e nce to His Hol iness Chr is t.
“For all par ts of the creati on al world are of one wh ol e. Chr ist the Man i fe s tor refl ec ting the div ine sun re pre s e n ted the
wh ol e. All the par ts are sub ord in ate and obedient to the wh ol e.... This cond i ti on of uncon s ci ous obed i e nce con s ti t ute s
subj ec tive faith. But the dis ce r n ing faith that con sis ts of true knowl ed ge of God and the compre h e n si on of the div in e
words, of such faith there is ve ry little in any age. That is why His Hol iness Chr ist sa id to His followe rs, ‘Many are call ed
but few are chosen.’” (B ahá’í World Faith: Selec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. 1969. Wilm e t te:
B ahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t. p. 364) Faith is reco g n i ti on of the Man i fe s tati on .
42) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 242 .
43) Bahá’u’ lláh. The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. 1992. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre, p. 61, para. 116) “Visi on,” sa id Bahá’u’ lláh, “ac te t h
as the agent and guide for true knowl ed ge. Inde ed in the estim ati on of men of wis dom ke e nness of unde rs tand ing is due
to ke e nness of visi on .” (B ahá’u’ lláh. Tabl e ts, p. 35.)
44) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, pp. 144–145.
45) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. B ahá’í World Fa i t h, p. 372 .
46) Ibid., p. 370.
47) Plato, for example makes this dis tinc ti on in The Re public. Con side r, to o, Bahá’u’ lláh’s war n ing to schol ars: “K nowl ed ge
is a light which God ca s teth in to the heart of wh om s o e ver He willeth. It is this kind of knowl ed ge which is and hath eve r
been pra is e wor t h y, and not the lim i ted knowl ed ge that hath spr ung forth from veil ed and ob s cured mind s. This lim i ted
knowl ed ge they even stealt h ily bor row one from the ot h e r, and va inly pr ide themselves therein !” (B ahá’u’ lláh. Ki t á b -i-
ˆqán, p. 46.)
48) “As to thy que s ti on regard ing dis coveries made by the soul a fter it hath put off its hum an form: ce r ta inl y, that world is
a world of perce p ti ons and dis coveries, for the in te r p o s ed veil will be lifted away and the hum an spirit will gaze up on
s ouls that are ab ove, be low, and on a par with it. It is sim il ar to the cond i ti on of the hum an being in the womb, wh e re
the eyes are veil ed, and all thin gs are hidden away from him. Once he is born out of the ute r ine world and ente reth this
l i fe, he findeth it, in re l ati on to that of the womb, to be a pl ace of perce p ti ons and dis coveries, and he ob s e rveth all
t h in gs through his outer eye. In the same way, once he hath de par teth this life, he will be h old, in that world, wh a s o e ve r
was hidden from him here: but he will lo ok up on and compre h e nd all thin gs with his inner eye.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S e l ec ti on s,
pp. 170–171)

Lights of ‘Irf á n
49) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá quoted in Shoghi Effe ndi. The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh. 1969 impre s si on. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h in g
Tr u s t. p. 111.
50) The Book of Re ve l ati on 22:14.
51) “Just as the conce p ti on of faith hath exis ted from the beginn ing that hath no beginn in g, and will endure till the end
t h at hath no end, in like mann e r, will the true be l i e ver ete r n ally live and endure. His spirit will eve rl a s tingly circle round
the Will of God. He will last as long as God, Him s e l f, will last.” (B ahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 141.)
53) Bahá’u’ lláh. The Hidden Words #13 Arabi c .
54) Bahá’u’ lláh. G l ean in gs, p. 169 –170.
55) “(W) h o s o e ver in eve ry dis p e n sati on is born of the Spirit and is qu i c ke n ed by the breath of the Man i fe s tati on of
Hol iness, he ve r ily is of those that have at ta in ed un to ‘l i fe’ and ‘re sur rec ti on’ and have ente red in to the ‘parad is e’ of the
love of God. And wh o s o e ver is not of them, is conde mn ed to ‘deat h’ and ‘de pr ivati on,’ to the ‘f ire’ of unbe l i ef, and to
the ‘w rath of God.’” (B ahá’u’ lláh. Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 118.) And: “Ob s e rve: those who in app earance we re ph ysi cally al ive ,
C hr ist con side red dead; for life is ete r n al life, and exis te nce is the real exis te nce. Where ver in the Holy Books they speak
of ra ising the dead, the mean ing is that the dead we re bl e s s ed with ete r n al life.” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s,
pp. 101–102 .)
1 0

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal
(Discourse of The Temple)
by Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
Background Information
S
ú rat u’ l-Hayk al (Dis course of the Te mpl e) is one of the most chall e n gin g1 works of Bahá’u’ lláh; it wa s
f irst re veal ed in Adr i anople, and later re veal ed aga in in ‘Akká with minor diffe re nce s. Up on
B ahá’u’ lláh’s comm and His tabl e ts to four kin gs and mon arc hs of His age and to Pope Pius IX we re
added to this Sú r ih and tran s c r ibed in the form of a pentacle, or five-p oin ted star.2 A review of these
tabl e ts and their messages re qu ires an in- depth an al ysis that is outside the scope of this ar ti c l e. A sepa-
rate ar ticle will be de voted to an expl an ati on of these tabl e ts. Some of the stimul ating a s p ec ts of this
tablet, the si g n i f i cances of its title and the five-p oin ted star refe r red to earl i e r, will be dis cu s s ed in this
ar ti c l e.
The be loved Gu ard i an inc luded tran s l ati ons of ext rac ts from this tablet in God Passes By,
3 T h e
Prom is ed Day Is Com e,
4 and The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh,
5 alt h ough it has not been for m ally tran s-
l ated in to English in its entire t y. Therefore, Anton Hadd ad’s unoff i ci al tran s l ati on
6 w ill be used in this
ar ticle to con vey some conce p ts. Unless taken from the publ is h ed works of the be loved Gu ard i an, these
pa s sages will be regarded as prov isi on al, and any de v i ati on from Hadd ad’s tran s l ati on will be de noted by
pare n t h e s e s.
The Title of the Súrih and its Significance
The op e n ing pa s sage of the tablet names the Sú r ih, and also re veals that the Te mple refe rs to the per-
s on of Mírzá Óu say n-‘A lí, Bahá’u’ lláh, as God’s Man i fe s tati on of His Names and the Sign of His re m e m-
b rances on earth for this age:
T h is is the Sú r ih of the Te mple (W h om) God has made the Mir ror of His Names be tween the
earth and heaven and the sign of His re m e mb rances among the people of the world .7
T h is Te mple is the ph ysi cal pers on of Bahá’u’ lláh, as con f ir m ed by many other pa s sages in the te xt of
the tabl e t. For example, the tablet con ta ins an address by the Most Great Spirit to the pers on of His
Man i fe s tati on on ear t h, clearly in te nd ing Bahá’u’ lláh :
O Thou Te mpl e! We have made Thee a mir ror for the Kin gdom of the Names to speak of My
D om in i on among all the creat ures and summon all the people to My meeting and Beauty and to
be a Gu ide to My ob v i ous and upright Path. We have elevated Thy Name among the servan ts a s
a Boun t y, and ador n ed Thee with the emb roide red Garment of Myself and cast up on Thee My
Word to use the Aut h ority in the Kin gdom as it pl easeth Thee and to do wh at Thou willeth. We
h ave ord a in ed to Thee the good of the heaven and earth so that no good will be gran ted to an y-
one unless he ente rs Thy shadow, as a comm and on the part of Thy Lord, the Lear n ed, the
I n for m ed. And We have given the rod of comm and and the div in ati on of aut h ority to enabl e
Thee to dis tin g u ish the wis dom of eve ry que s ti on. We have shown forth from Thy breast the sea s
of Knowl ed ge and Re ve l ati on in the ce l eb rati on of Thy Lord, the Me rci ful, in order that Thou
1 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
s h ouldst pra ise and be of the thank ful. We have chosen Thee from amon gst My creat ures and
m ade Thee the Man i fe s tati on of My Soul to wh om s o e ver is in the heaven and earth. Send Thou
forth by a permis si on on Our part, speaking mir rors and high lette rs to te ll of Thy dom in i on
and power and to ind i cate Thy might and greatness and be the man i fe s tati ons of Thy Nam e s
among all the creat ure s. We have made Thee the or i gin of the mir rors and their or i gin ator just
as We have or i gin ated them from Thee the first tim e....
T h is pa s sage expl a ins that the Most Great Spirit has created His Man i fe s tati on, has chosen Him to be
the Man i fe s tati on of His Soul and a Mir ror for the Kin gdom of His Names amon gst His creat ure s.
T hrou g h out the Sú r ih the Most Great Spirit addresses the Te mple and the limbs and organs of this Te mpl e
and the lette rs which make up the word Hayk al (H, Y, K, and L), making a prom ise that each will becom e
the pro ge n i tor of a new race of men to serve His Cau s e. These pa s sages de mon s t rate the all egor i cal and
s y mb olic nat ure of these pronounce m e n ts. This subj ect will be dis cu s s ed in de ta il later in this ar ti c l e.
T h e re is another si g n i f i cant a s p ect in the title of this Sú r ih, which is, outwardl y, a refe re nce to
J e r u salem and the Te mple of Solomon in Jerusal e m, and in wardl y, a refe re nce to His Man i fe s tati on s. The
follow ing statement in re l ati on to this title app ears in the te xt of this Tablet and is in te r pre ted by the
Gu ard i an as a refe re nce to Old Te s tament proph ec y:
…The most imp or tant of His Tabl e ts, addre s s ed to ind iv idu al sove reigns, Bahá’u’ lláh orde red to
be written in the form of a pentacle, symb ol izing the te mple of man, … and ind i cate their direc t
a s s o ci ati on with the proph ecy of the Old Te s tam e n t:
T hus have We bu ilt the Te mple with the hands of power and might, could ye but know it. This
is the Te mple prom is ed to you in the Book. Draw nigh un to it. This is that which prof i teth you ,
could ye but compre h e nd it. Be fa ir, O peoples of the earth! Which is prefe rable, this, or a te m-
ple which is bu ilt of clay? Set your faces towards it. Thus have ye been comm anded by God, the
He lp in Pe r il, the Self-Sub sis tin g. Follow ye His bidd in g, and pra ise ye your God, your Lord, for
t h at which He hath be s towed up on you. He, ve r il y, is the Tr uth. No God is there but He. He
re vealeth wh at He pl ea s e t h, through His words ‘Be and it is’.9
A lt h ough at first glance this pa s sage app ears to refer to the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al itself as the prom is ed
Te mple, the Te mple is ac t u ally a refe re nce to the pers on of God’s Man i fe s tati on for this age, Bahá’u’ lláh
H im s e l f, and not just the Tabl e t.
Old Te s tament proph ecies ab out the rebu ild ing of the Te mple can be found in Zec h ar i ah. Accord in g
to the te xt in this book, the prophet Zec h ar i ah received the Word of God dur ing the reign of Dar i u s
(521–486 BCE), the Pe rsi an Kin g, ab out the time when the Jews had been libe rated from Bab ylon by Kin g
Cyrus (580–529 BCE), and some had re t ur n ed home from their exil e. The words of Zec h ar i ah imply that
the re-bu ild ing of the Te mple and Jerusalem was incompl e te, and fur t h e r more, the re t urn of the Jews to
the Holy Land was still only a prom is e. Chronolo gi cal in for m ati on on the eve n ts that led to the de s t r uc-
ti on of the Te mple and its recon s t r uc ti on, and the words of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá on the ful f illment of the
proph ecies of Daniel regard ing the rebu ild ing of the Te mple and the city of Jerusalem can be found in
App e nd i ces I and II, re s p ec tive l y.
Z ec h ar i ah de s c r ibes, firs t l y, God’s wrath aga inst the Jews as evide nced by the de s t r uc ti on of their
Te mple and their exile from Israel, and, secondl y, the prom ise of the re t urn of the Lord’s favor and their
pro s p e r i t y. It de mon s t rates the in te r pl ay of symb olic and ac t u al pl aces, people, names and conce p ts. The
fre quent in te rc h an ge of phrases refe r r ing to the ph ysi cal and symb olic Te mple of Jerusalem and the ph ys-
i cal and spir i t u al sove reignty of the nati on and its Delive rer is qu i te beauti ful to see. For example, the
b o ok inc ludes the follow ing proph ecy ab out the entry of the King in to Jerusal e m :
Rej oi ce great l y, O dau g h ter of Zi on; shout, O dau g h ter of Jerusalem: be h old, thy King com e t h
un to thee: he is just, and hav ing sal vati on; lowl y, and rid ing up on an ass, and up on a colt the
foal of an a s s.
1 2

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
S ome five hundred years later this proph ecy was in te r pre ted by the Gospel write rs (Matthew 21:1-5) a s
refe r r ing to His Hol iness Jesus Chr is t’s last visit to Jerusal e m .
The Old Te s tament Book of Ezra is a chronolo gy of ed i c ts and dec rees by the Pe rsi an Ac h ae m e n id
kin gs (Cyrus, Darius, and Artaxe r xe s) conce r n ing the libe rati on of the Jews, their re t urn to the Hol y
L and, and prov isi ons for the rebu ild ing of their Te mple, its beauti f i cati on and decorati on .
12 T h e s e
accoun ts de s c r ibe the lite ral ful f illment of the proph eci e s. Howe ve r, the ar r ival of Jesus Chr ist in
J e r u salem as a lowly ind iv idu al and the rej ec ti on of Him and His Cause followed by a second de s t r uc-
ti on of the Jewish Te mple and the city of Jerusalem and 2000 years of new exile for the Jewish peopl e.
T h e refore, in the con te xt of Zec h ar i ah, the lasting Te mple ac t u ally refe rs to the Pe rs on of Jesus and
not the peris h able bu ild ing of the Te mple of Solomon. Inte re s tingly enou g h, even at the time of the
Te mpl e’s apparent grandeur, Jesus comm e n ted that the Jerusalem Te mple was being forsaken by God and
l a id wa s te. In other words, the people and their leade rs had rej ec ted Him Who was the true Te mpl e.
O Jerusal e m, Jerusal e m, thou that killest the proph e ts, and stones them which are sent un to
thee, how often would I have gat h e red thy children to ge t h e r, even as a hen gat h e reth her chick-
ens under her win gs, and ye would not! Be h old, your house is left un to you de s ol ate. For I say
un to you, Ye shall not see me hencefor t h, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the nam e
of the Lord .13
T h is dec l arati on clearly and un ambi g uously shows that that the real liv ing Te mple was Jesus Chr is t
and not that awe-in s pir ing bu ild ing in Jerusalem. Jesus further clar i f i ed this theme in an s wer to Jewis h
l eade rs que s ti on ing His aut h ority to clear the Te mple of merc h an ts.
J e sus an s we red and sa id un to them, Destroy this te mple, and in three days I will ra ise it up. Then
sa id the Jews, Forty and six years was this te mple in bu ild in g, and wilt thou rear it up in thre e
d ays? But he spake of the te mple of his body.14
The Book of Re ve l ati on makes the mean ing of the te mple even clearer by proph e s y ing the de s ce n si on
of a New Jerusalem made of pure gold and preci ous stones with no te mple in side and no need for the
light of the sun and the mo on, the sove reign Lord and the Lamb being its te mple and giv ing it its light:
21:2  And I John saw the holy ci t y, new Jerusal e m, com ing down from God out of heave n, pre-
pared as a bride ador n ed for her hu sb and .
21:3  And I heard a great voi ce out of heaven say in g, Be h old, the tabe r n acle of God is with men,
and he will dwe ll with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them,
and be their God.
21:6  And he sa id un to me, It is don e. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginn ing and the end. I will
give un to him that is at h irst of the foun ta in of the water of life fre e l y.
21:10  And he car r i ed me away in the spirit to a great and high moun ta in, and shewed me that
g reat ci t y, the holy Jerusal e m, de s ce nd ing out of heaven from God,
21:11  Hav ing the glory of God: and her light was like un to a stone most preci ous, even like a
jasper stone, clear as crys tal ;
21:12  And had a wall great and high, and had twe l ve gates, and at the gates twe l ve an gels, and
n ames written thereon, which are the names of the twe l ve tribes of the children of Israe l :
21:18  And the bu ild ing of the wall of it was of ja s p e r: and the city was pure gold, like un to clear
g l a s s.
21:19  And the found ati ons of the wall of the city we re gar n is h ed with all manner of preci ous ston e s.
The first found ati on was ja s p e r; the second, sapph ire; the third, a chalcedon y; the four t h, an emerald ;
1 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
21:20  The fift h, sardon y x; the sixt h, sardius; the seve n t h, chrys ol y te; the ei g h t h, be ryl; the
n in t h, a topaz; the te n t h, a chrys opra sus; the eleve n t h, a jacin t h; the twe l ft h, an am e t h ys t.
21:21  And the twe l ve gates we re twe l ve pearl s: eve ry seve ral gate was of one pearl: and the stre e t
of the city was pure gold, as it we re tran s parent glass.
21:22  And I saw no te mple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the te mple of it.
21:23  And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the mo on, to shine in it: for the glory of
God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.
21:25  And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there shall be no night there.15
John saw no te mple in the New Jerusal e m, since he knew the Lord and the Lamb to be its te mpl e. The
“Holy of Hol i e s” and the Qibl ih (Point of Adorati on) for the Bahá’ís in this Dis p e n sati on was Bahá’u’ lláh
dur ing His ear t hly life, and His shr ine a fter His pa s sin g. In the Tablet of Carmel, regarded by the
Gu ard i an as the Char ter of the Bahá’í dis p e n sati on, Bahá’u’ lláh states that He is the City of God and the
ce l e s ti al Ka aba de s ce nded from heave n .
Call out to Zi on, O Carmel, and announce the joy ful tid in gs: He that was hidden from mor tal
e yes is com e! His all- con que r ing sove reignty is man i fe s t; His all- e ncompa s sing spl e ndour is
re veal ed. Be ware lest thou hesi tate or halt. Ha s ten forth and circum ambul ate the City of God
t h at hath de s ce nded from heave n, the ce l e s ti al Ka aba round which have circ l ed in adorati on the
favoured of God, the pure in heart, and the company of the most exalted an ge l s.16
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a in ed the flour is h ing and posi ti on of honor of Jerusalem in His life time when He
s tated :
The Holy Ci t y, is now beginn ing to become pro s p e rous, populous and flour is h in g. Anyone wh o
saw Jerusalem sixty years ago, and who sees it now, will reco g n ize how populous and flour is h-
ing it has become, and how it is aga in honored .
He in te r pre ted the symb olic mean ing of “Holy Ci t y” or “New Jerusal e m” as the outward form of the
“Cause of God” and the “ Holy of Hol i e s” as the spir i t u al basis of “the Cause of God”:
W h at is meant by the term Holy of Holies is that spir i t u al Law which will never be mo d i f i ed ,
alte red or ab ro gated; and the Holy City means the mate r i al Law which may be ab ro gated; and
t h is mate r i al Law, which is de s c r ibed as the Holy Ci t y, was to be tro dden under fo ot for twe l ve
hundred and sixty years.18
B ahá’u’ lláh takes up this theme in the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al and chall e n ges the Jews, Chr is ti ans and the
Moslems to regard Him as the lasting Te mple and not that bu ilt of clay:
T hus have We bu ilt the Te mple with the hands of power and might, could ye but know it. This
is the Te mple prom is ed to you in the Book. Draw nigh un to it. This is that which prof i teth you ,
could ye but compre h e nd it. Be fa ir, O peoples of the earth! Which is prefe rable, this, or a te m-
ple which is bu ilt of clay? Set your faces towards it. Thus have ye been comm anded by God, the
He lp in Pe r il, the Self-Sub sis tin g. Follow ye His bidd in g, and pra ise ye your God, your Lord, for
t h at which He hath be s towed up on you. He, ve r il y, is the Tr uth. No God is there but He. He
re vealeth wh at He pl ea s e t h, through His words ‘Be and it is.’19
Z ec h ar i ah also makes a refe re nce to “the man whose name is ‘The Branc h’ who shall bu ild the Te mpl e
of the Lord”:
T hus speaketh the Lord of Ho s ts say in g, be h old the man whose name is THE BR ANCH; and he
s h all grow up out of his pl ace, and he shall bu ild the te mple of the Lord … and they that are far
off shall come and bu ild in the te mple of the Lord .20
1 4

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ful f ill ed this prom ise both ph ysi cally and spir i t u all y. He is the “C e n ter of the Cove n an t”
of the “L ord of Ho s ts ,” bu ilt the ed i f i ce of the Cause of God, and ph ysi cally con s t r uc ted the Bahá’í
S hr in e s. Those who we re ‘far off’ have come and have been bu ild ing the Te mple of the Lord .
The Jewish people rej ec ted Jesus and refu s ed to ab andon their ph ysi cal Te mpl e. In the pro cess, sadl y,
they lost bot h, their te mple and their Delive re r, and su ffe red 2000 years of crue lty at the hands of ot h e r
n ati on s. The words “T h is is the Te mple prom is ed to you in the Book. Draw nigh un to it. This is that
which prof i teth you, could ye but compre h e nd it. Be fa ir, O peoples of the earth! Which is prefe rabl e ,
t h is, or a te mple which is bu ilt of clay? ”
21 are Bahá’u’ lláh’s comm e n ts on the fate of former ge n e rati on s.
Fur t h e r more, with His Com in g, the prom ises and hopes of the Jewish people for the rega in ing of
t h eir sove reignty and nati onhood have once more been ful f ill ed. What still re m a ins unreal iz ed, thou g h,
are the prom ises of peace and unity for the Jewish people, their nei g hb ors and the world, and the real-
iz ati on of a maj e s tic stati on for the Holy Land .
A lmost 700 years a fter the de s t r uc ti on of the Te mple and the City by the Rom ans, the Moslems con-
que red Jerusalem and bu ilt their Holy Mo sques (circa. 691–701 AD) within the si te of the Inn e r
Sanc t u ary of the Te mple ruin s. Aga inst that bac kdrop, can there be peace in Jerusalem wh ile the Mu s l im s
and the Jews each claim the same part of the inner sanc t u ary of the Te mple of Solomon? Through this
struggle over sove rei g n t y, the Jews, Chr is ti ans, and Mu s l ims may reco g n ize Bahá’u’ lláh as their true
Te mple, and His Cause and Teac h in gs as their true “Holy of Hol i e s” and “Holy Ci t y.” Then, through His
teac h in gs on pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, they could ac h i e ve that peace prom is ed in their re s p ec tive
S c r i p t ure s.
Structure and Summary of the Main Themes
T h is Tablet con sis ts of a series of for m al addresses and dialo g ues, rich in symb ol is m, parables, and
refe re nces to the Scriptures of the pa s t. This lite rary style with its mean in gful and symb olic lan g u age
m akes this Tablet one of the most chall e n ging and most beauti ful works of Bahá’u’ lláh; and with its wide
ran ge of theolo gi cal topics, it can be regarded as a comp e nd i um to the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán .
The Sú r ih opens with a series of suppl i cati ons and words of grati t ude from Mírzá Óu say n-‘A lí to the
Most Great Spirit Which has brought exis te nce in to being and is the source of life and guid ance to all .
He offe rs His grati t ude for the cal am i ties that He has su ffe red. This expre s si on of con tentment with the
Will of the Lord is followed by the app earance of the Ma id of Heaven who poin ts to Him and dec l are s
H im to the world as the “Be loved of All ,” the “Beauty of God and His Sove rei g n t y,” and the “Mys te ry of
God and His Cau s e.”
The Most Great Spirit addresses His chosen Servant, the Pe rs on of Bahá’u’ lláh, Who has been made
the Man i fe s tati on of all of His at t r ibutes, with words of encouragement and prom ises of supp or t. The
Most Great Spirit de s c r ibes the aut h ority and majesty that Bahá’u’ lláh possesses on earth and in heav-
en. Through Bahá’u’ lláh He will ra ise up a new race of man who will a s sist Him and His Cau s e. He then
addresses each of the limbs and organs of His servan t— H is eyes, ears, chest, heart, feet, hands, ton g ue
and eve ry letter of His Te mple (H, Y, K, L), and prom ises that through them He will create people with
pure hear ts, minds, strong fa i t h, courage, and stead fastness to promote His Cau s e.
The Most Great Spirit addresses the people of the Bayán, hum ankind, and the leade rs of re l i gi ons and
in v i tes them to reco g n ize this Youth as their Delive rer and their Refu ge. He warns them of the con s e-
que nces of their dis obed i e nce.
B ahá’u’ lláh re s p onds to the Most Great Spirit with dec l arati ons of loyalt y, obed i e nce, and read iness to
sac r i f i ce His life in His path. He then addresses the people with chall e n ges and prom ise of a s sis tance
s h ould they reco g n ize the truth of His Word s. Fur t h e r more, Bahá’u’ lláh gives a short but mov ing and
effec tive account of the way in which He ra is ed His hal f-b rot h e r, educated him, given him a title and ele-
vated his rank amon gst men, and yet how he arose aga inst Him and even made at te mp ts on His life. The
mighty Words of this Tablet prov ide a further in sight in to the re l ati onship be tween the Most Great Spir i t
and His Man i fe s tati on on ear t h, which will be dis cu s s ed in greater de ta il in this ar ti c l e.
1 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A Selection from the Main Themes of the Súratu’l-Haykal
Since the themes and topics which app ear in this Tablet are too num e rous to cover in any de p t h, som e
h i g hl i g h ts of a few of the main themes are offe red here.
Identity and Relationship of Central Figures in this Tablet
T hrough His grace, the Man i fe s tati on of God on earth for this day has chosen to con vey a few of His
m any Stati ons in mea sures appropr i ate to us. This is one of the rea s ons for His use of rich and symb ol-
ic lan g u age.
The pr inci pal Sp eaker in this Tablet ide n tifies Himself as the Most Great Spirit Who is the Firs t
Creati on of God, refe r red to elsewh e re as the Pr im al Will, His Light, etc. It is this Most Great Spir i t
Who is the Creator of heaven and earth and all there was, is and ever will be. He is that same Spirit that
has an im ated all of the Me s s e n ge rs of the past, and it is through this Spirit and His posi ti on that the
unity of all the other Man i fe s tati ons of God can be unde rs tood. This refe re nce in the Gospel of John is
in te nded for Him :
In the beginn ing was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The sam e
was in the beginn ing with God. All thin gs we re made by him; and without him was not any thin g
m ade that was made.22
B a s ed on this Tablet and on in te r pre tati ons from ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the expre s si on “and the Word was God”
is unde rs tood to mean that He was the Word of God. For the first two ce n t uries of the Chr is ti an era ,
the mean ing of this pa s sage was hotly deb ated. With the spread of Chr is ti anity within the Rom an Empire
and the con ve rsi on and sub s e quent supp ort of Emp e ror Con s tan tine, and follow ing the Council of
N i caea in 358 A.D., the “Word” came to be regarded as a part of the Tr in i t y.23
We learn in this Tablet that this Most Great Spirit creates the ph ysi cal being of His Man i fe s tati ons for
e ve ry age and, through Them, educates, nour ishes, and guides mankind towards Him s e l f. His
Man i fe s tati ons are, therefore, true mir rors of His own at t r ibutes, qu al i ties, names, beaut y, maj e s t y, and
g lory. Depend ing on the re qu ire m e n ts of the age, each man i fe s ts as many of His qu al i ties as He de e m s
n ece s sary for that age. Our re l ati onship with His Man i fe s tati on is, therefore, in eve ry a s p ect, ide n ti cal
to our re l ati onship with Him s e l f.
In this sense, His Mir rors are perfect ind iv idu als on earth who rule in His Nam e. These
Man i fe s tati ons have two Stati on s. In the Kin gdom of His Cause, they are all one and the same, and in
the world of man they are diffe rent pers ons separated by time and pl ace. These are the tw in Stati ons of
the Man i fe s tati ons of God, refe r red to in the op e n ing pa s sages of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s:
In the Name of Him Who is the Supreme Ruler over all that hath been and all that is to be. The
f irst duty pre s c r ibed by God for His servan ts is the reco g n i ti on of Him Who is the Days pr in g
of His Re ve l ati on and the Foun ta in of His laws, Who re pre s e n teth the Godh ead in both the
Kin gdom of His Cause and the world of creati on .
The “Kin gdom of the Cau s e” is the dwe ll in g-pl ace of the Most Great Spirit, an in te r m ed i ary world
be tween man and the Essence of All Essences and the Hidden of the Hidden. Both are unknowable and
unreac h able to man. Howe ve r, the Man i fe s tati ons of the Most Great Spirit re present Him in both the
world of man and the Kin gdom of the Cau s e. Therefore, man’s ultim ate goal is the reco g n i ti on of His
Man i fe s tati on for each age.
Refe re nces to “T h is Servan t ,” “T h is Yout h,” This Wron ged One” and sim il ar titles in this Tablet refe r
to the pers on of the Man i fe s tati on for this age, Mírzá Óu say n-‘A lí, Bahá’u’ lláh .
Man i fe s tati ons of God have many stati on s. In The Four Vall e ys25 B ahá’u’ lláh gran ts us with a lim i ted
knowl ed ge of four of His stati ons and at t r ibutes, i.e., His Self, His Wis dom, His Love, and His Spir i t.
Sim il arl y, there are other a s p ec ts and stati ons of the Man i fe s tati ons of Him, which can only be de s c r ibed
in symb olic te r m s. In this category fall such creati ons as the Holy Spirit refe r red to abund antly in the
Gospels, Qur’án, and the Bahá’í writin gs, the Angel Gabriel as refe r red to in the Qur’án, and the Ma id s
1 6

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
of Heaven refe r red to in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Wr i tin gs, inc lud ing the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al. These diffe rent stati on s
are all linked to gether by bonds of love, a ffec ti on, adm irati on, loyalty and sac r i f i ce. To unde rs tand this
we may recall the words of Jesus, as a Man i fe s tati on of His age, when He dec l ared that all sins and bl a s-
phemies aga inst His pers on will be forgive n, but not those aga inst the Holy Spir i t.
26 When His Hol in e s s ,
the Báb, dec l ared Himself ready to sac r i f i ce His life, this was the Path He in te nded. We are all a s ked to
follow the example of the love of His Man i fe s tati ons for Him .
Refe re nces to the Stati on of Jesus in the Gospels can be unde rs tood in terms of these man i fold
Stati ons of a Man i fe s tati on of God, such as when He dec l ared that “I and My Father are on e ,”
27 “My meat
is to do the will of him that sent me, and to fin ish his work,”
28 and “no man can come to me, except the
Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will ra ise him up at the last day.”
29 C hr is te ndom has strug-
g l ed for millenia with these Gospel pa s sages and, in the end, has created the concept of the Tr in i t y,
alt h ough this has never re s ol ved its soul-s earc h in g.
The Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al also addresses Bahá’u’ lláh by other titles, such as the Supreme Pe n, the Pen of
Ete r n i t y, the Supreme Word, the Blessed Beaut y, the Ancient Beaut y, the Sun of Ete r n i t y, all of which can
be unde rs tood in light of the given expl an ati on s.
Words of Might
With Bahá’u’ lláh’s grace, we are now be t ter able to unde rs tand the Words of former Me s s e n ge rs of
God, as they re l ate to Their ph ysi cal Bein gs and Div ine Stati ons, such as when Jesus dec l ines to be call ed
“Good Ma s te r”30 and yet later states that “My Father and I are One.”31
B ahá’u’ lláh makes num e rous state m e n ts ab out His Aut h or i t y, His Names and At t r ibutes refl ec ting His
Stati on as one with His Most Great Spir i t. An example of such a statement, tran s l ated by the Be loved
Gu ard i an, will su ff i ce.
Naught is seen in My te mple but the Te mple of God, and in My Beauty is His Beaut y, and in My
being but His Bein g, and My self but His Self, and in My movement but His Movement, and in
My ac qu i e s ce nce but His Ac qu i e s ce nce, and in My pen but His Pe n, the Mi g h t y, the All-Pra is ed .
T h e re hath not been in My soul but the Tr ut h, and in Myself naught could be seen but God.32
B ahá’u’ lláh, in the Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, in addre s sing a Mu s l im Shaykh who had dis m is s ed
H is div in i t y, de s c r ibes the du al stati ons of God’s Man i fe s tati on s.33 He quotes seve ral examples from the
S c r i p t ures, and expl a ins their mean in gs, conc lud ing with these re m arks ab out His pers on :
O Shaykh! This stati on is the stati on in which one dieth to himself and liveth in God. Div in i t y,
wh e n e ver I menti on it, ind i cateth My compl e te and ab s olute self- efface m e n t. This is the stati on
in which I have no con t rol over mine own weal or woe nor over my life nor over my re sur rec-
ti on .
O Shaykh! How do the div ines of this age account for the efful gent glory which the Sadrah of
U t te rance hath shed up on the Son of ‘I mr án (Mo s e s) on the Sinai of Div ine knowl ed ge? He
(Mo s e s) hearke n ed un to the Word which the Bur n ing Bush had ut te red, and acce p ted it;
W h at expl an ati on can they give conce r n ing that which the Seal of the Proph e ts (Muh amm ad)—
m ay the souls of all else but Him be offe red up for His sake — h ath sa id ?: “Ye, ve r il y, shall be h old
your Lord as ye be h old the full mo on on its four teenth night.”
The Comm ander of the Fa i t h ful (ˆm ám ‘A lí )— p eace be up on him — moreove r, saith in the
K hutbiy-i-Tut ú nj í yy ih: “A n ti ci pate ye the Re ve l ati on of Him Who con ve rs ed with Moses from the
Bur n ing Bush on Sin a i .”
O Shaykh! No breeze can compare with the breezes of Div ine Re ve l ati on, wh ilst the Word wh i c h
is ut te red by God shineth and flasheth as the sun am idst the books of men. Happy the man that
h ath dis cove red it, and reco g n iz ed it, and sa id: “Pra is ed be Thou, Who art the Desire of the
world, and thanks be to Thee, O We ll-Be loved of the hear ts of such as are de voted to Thee!”
1 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Men have fa il ed to perceive Our purpose in the refe re nces We have made to Div inity and
G o dhood. We re they to appre h e nd it, they would ar ise from their pl aces, and cry out: “We, ve r-
il y, ask pardon of God!” The Seal of the Proph e ts— m ay the souls of all else but Him be offe red
up for His sake —saith: “Man i fold are Our re l ati onships with God. At one time, We are He
H im s e l f, and He is We Ours e l f. At another He is that He is, and We are that We are.”
By the righteousness of God! Idle fancies have deb ar red men from the Hor iz on of Certi t ude, and
va in im agin in gs withh e ld them from the Choi ce Seal ed Win e. In truth I say, and for the sake of
God I dec l are: This Servant, this Wron ged One, is ab a s h ed to claim for Himself any exis te nce
wh ate ve r, how much more those exalted grades of bein g! Eve ry man of dis ce r nment, wh ile walk-
ing up on the ear t h, feeleth inde ed ab a s h ed, in a s much as he is fully aware that the thing wh i c h
is the source of his pro s p e r i t y, his wealt h, his might, his exaltati on, his ad vancement and powe r
is, as ord a in ed by God, the ve ry earth which is tro dden be n eath the feet of all men. There can
be no doubt that wh o e ver is co g n iz ant of this trut h, is clean s ed and sanc ti f i ed from all pr ide ,
ar ro gance, and va in g lory. Whate ver hath been sa id hath come from God. Unto this, He, ve r il y,
h ath borne, and beareth now, witness, and He, in trut h, is the All-K now in g, the All-I n for m ed .
With these expl an ati ons, we are able to compre h e nd the words of His Man i fe s tati on s.
The Significance of the Words of the Maiden of Heaven
As menti on ed earl i e r, the Ma iden of Heaven quoted in the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al is, in real i t y, another sta-
ti on of this Man i fe s tati on of the Most Great Spir i t. Therefore, the si g n i f i cance of this epis o de is, a s
de s c r ibed in the Words of the Ma ide n, in for m ing mankind ab out the stati on of this Be loved of All .
The be loved Gu ard i an has tran s l ated this enc h an ting pa s sage and, in par ti cul ar, states that the Ma ide n
s y mb ol izes the “Most Great Spir i t.”
In His Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al (the Sú r ih of the Te mpl e) He thus de s c r ibes those breat hless mom e n ts
when the Ma ide n, symb ol izing the “Most Great Spir i t” pro c l a im ed His mis si on to the entire cre-
ati on :
W h ile engul fed in tribul ati ons I heard a most wondrous, a most sweet voi ce, call ing ab ove My
h ead. Tur n ing My face, I be h e ld a Ma iden—the emb o d iment of the re m e mb rance of the name of
My Lord —su s p e nded in the a ir before Me. So rej oi ced was she in her ve ry soul that her coun te-
n ance shone with the or n ament of the go o d- pl ea sure of God, and her cheeks glowed with the
brightness of the All-Me rci ful. Be tw ixt earth and heaven she was ra ising a call which cap tivated
the hear ts and minds of men. She was impar ting to both My in ward and outer being tid in gs
which rej oi ced My soul, and the souls of God’s honored servan ts. Poin ting with her fin ger un to
My head, she addre s s ed all who are in heaven and all who are on ear t h, say in g: “By God! This is
the Be s t-Be loved of the Worlds, and yet ye compre h e nd not. This is the Beauty of God amon gs t
you, and the power of His sove reignty within you, could ye but unde rs tand. This is the Mys te ry
of God and His Trea sure, the Cause of God and His glory un to all who are in the kin gdoms of
Re ve l ati on and of creati on, if ye be of them that perceive.34
The pr inci pal func ti on of this encoun ter and the role of the Ma iden is to dec l are to the world that the
Be s t-Be loved of all has com e. Compare this encoun ter and the words of this Ma ide n, to those ut te red by
a dove at the comm e ncement of Jesus Chr is t’s Mis si on a fter His encoun ter with John the Bap tis t.
A nd Jesus, when he was bap tiz ed, went up stra i g h tway out of the wate r: and lo, the heavens we re
op e n ed un to him, and he saw the Spirit of God de s ce nd ing like a dove, and lighting up on him :
A nd lo a voi ce from heaven say in g, This is my be loved Son, in wh om I am we ll pl ea s ed .
It is note worthy that Bahá’u’ lláh calls this Ma iden “the emb o d iment of the re m e mb rance of the nam e
of My Lord”
36 and that the Gospel of Matthew de s c r ibes this dove as “the Spirit of God de s ce nd ing like
a dove.”
37 A lt h ough employ ing diffe rent symb ols, both de s c r i p ti ons con vey the same idea. Also note that
the “Spirit of God” is a title used in the Islámic and Bahá’í scriptures for Jesus Chr is t.
1 8

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
The symb ol of the Ma iden app ears multi ple times in this Tablet, and, on each occa si on, the Ma ide n
m akes a diffe rent but equ ally effec tive dec l arati on ab out Bahá’u’ lláh’s stati on to hum an i t y, for exampl e:
O Houri of Parad is e! Come out of the chambe rs of the Garden and say to the inh abi tan ts of the
un ive rse, “By God, He hath app eared, the Be loved of the world, the Inte nded of the Knowe rs ,
the Wors h i pp ed of wh om s o e ver is in the heaven and the earth and the adored of the Anci e n ts
and Mo de r n s. Be ware of hesi tating to accept this Beaut y, a fter the Ruler of Might, Power and
G lory hath app eared .”
The Most Great Spirit on these occa si ons, on Moun ts Sinai and Har ra, by the banks of the Rive r
Jord an, and in the Sí yáh- C hál, made the dec l arati on of the stati on of His Man i fe s tati ons to mankind .
A lt h ough the Most Great Spir i t’s Man i fe s tati ons in the hum an world exist from their conce p ti on, Their
Mis si ons and Stati ons are dec l ared at specific times in their lives, so as to prov ide a ph ysi cal expl an a-
ti on that people can ea sily unde rs tand. Therefore, the app earance of the Bur n ing Bush to Moses, the Hol y
Spirit in the form of a dove to Jesus, Muh amm ad’s dialo g ue with the Angel Gabriel, the Báb’s dream of
w i t n e s sing the mar t y rdom of the ˆm ám Hu say n, and Bahá’u’ lláh’s visi on of the Ma iden are all symb ol i c
and should be unde rs tood as suc h .
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a ins why some pa s sages in the Scriptures imply as though these Holy Souls are
app oin ted as Man i fe s tati on of the All Me rci ful at a specific stage in their live s.39
We come to the expl an ati on of the words of Bahá’u’ lláh when He says: “O kin g! I was but a man
l ike ot h e rs, asleep up on My couc h, when lo, the breezes of the All- G lor i ous we re wa fted ove r
Me, and taught Me the knowl ed ge of all that hath been. This thing is not from Me, but from
One Who is Almighty and All-K now in g.” This is the state of man i fe s tati on: it is not sensible; it
is an in te ll ec t u al real i t y, exe mpt and fre ed from time, from past, present and fut ure; it is an
e xpl an ati on, a sim ile, a metaph or and is not to be acce p ted lite rall y; it is not a state that can be
compre h e nded by man. Sleeping and waking is pa s sing from one state to anot h e r. Sleeping is the
cond i ti on of repose, and wakefulness is the cond i ti on of move m e n t. Sleeping is the state of
sil e nce; wakefulness is the state of speech. Sleeping is the state of mys te ry; wakefulness is the
s tate of man i fe s tati on .
For example, it is a Pe rsi an and Arabic expre s si on to say that the earth was a s l e e p, and the spr in g
came, and it awoke; or the earth was dead, and the spr ing came, and it re v ived. These expre s-
si ons are metaph ors, all egories, mys tic expl an ati ons in the world of si g n i f i cati on .
Br i efl y, the Holy Man i fe s tati ons have ever be e n, and ever will be, Lum inous Real i ties; no chan ge
or var i ati on takes pl ace in Their essence. Before dec l ar ing Their man i fe s tati on, They are sil e n t
and quiet like a sleeper, and a fter Their man i fe s tati on, They speak and are illum in ated, like on e
who is awake.40
The Reason for Man’s Ignorance of the Lord’s Grace
H is grace sur rounds us all throu g h out our live s. In spi te of this, the que s ti on regard ing man’s lack of
awareness of His pre s e nce has al ways been a s ked. Bahá’u’ lláh in this Sú r ih an s we rs this dil e mma usin g
an alo gies from eve ryd ay life. He states that mankind’s life and exis te nce de p e nd on His Grace as muc h
as leaves de p e nd on ro ots and fish de p e nd on wate r:
Not h ing can move be tween the heaven and earth without My permis si on and no soul can a s ce nd
to the Kin gdom without My Comm and; but My creat ures veil ed themselves from My power and
aut h ority and we re of those who are neg l i ge n t. Say, not h ing can be seen in My Man i fe s tati on but
the Man i fe s tati on of God nor in My power but the power of God, we re ye of those who know!
Say, the maxim of My creat ures is like n ed un to that of the leaves of a tree they app ear and fe e l
t h e m s e l ves inde p e ndent but of their ro ot they are neg l ec tful. Thus we prop ounded a prove rb
un to Our servan ts, the wise, perh aps they will elevate themselves from the vege table deg ree and
at ta in the stati on of accompl is hment in this con f ir m ed and val id mat te r. Say, they are like n ed
1 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
2 0
un to a wh ale in the wate r; ve r ily the water is its source of life but it inde ed does not know that
the source of life is from the Pre s e nce of the Preci ous, the Wise; it is veil ed from it to such an
e xtent that if a s ked ab out the water and its qu al i ties, it does not know. Thus We prop ound
prove rbs; perh aps the people will ad vance to the Kobla (Man i fe s ted God) of wh om s o e ver is in
the heaven and ear t h .
A Reference to Mírzá Ya˙yá and Addresses to Bábí Communities
B ahá’u’ lláh makes a short but mov ing and effec tive refe re nce to His hal f-b rot h e r, Mírzá Ya˙yá and his
opp o si ti on to the Cau s e. Con side r ing the time at which this Tablet was re veal ed, this refe re nce in the
Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al had an imp or tant impact on the tran sfor m ati on and succe s sful con ve rsi on of the Bábí
commun i ties to His Cau s e.
B ahá’u’ lláh states His love and de voti on to the tra in ing of His hal f-b rot h e r, his app ointment and pro-
tec ti on, and speaks of Mírzá Ya˙yá’s ag g re s si on, opp o si ti on, and at te mp ts on His life.
O thou Coun te n ance of Unity! Shouldst thou find them [those wh om God will make app ear on
earth and by them He elevateth His menti on, spreadeth His traces, con f irmeth His Word and
promul gateth His Signs in spi te of those who de n i ed and con t rad i c ted, and we re of those wh o
Abj ured His Word s], and be able to meet them, re l ate thou to them that which this Page is re l at-
ing to thee from the stories of Himself and wh at has befallen Him that they may peruse that
which was written in a pre s e rved tabl e t. Te ll them the news of this Page and how He was smit-
ten with misfor t une and inj uries in order that they may re m e mber My cal am i ties and be of those
who compre h e nd. Then menti on to them that, ve r ily We have chosen one of our brot h e rs and
s h owed to him a small drop of the high sea of sci e nce, and clot h ed him with the garment of on e
Name of the Names, and elevated him to a rank wh e reby eve ry one rose to pra ise him, and pro-
tec ted him from the inj ury of the owner of inj uries in such a manner that the powe r ful fa il ed
to a ffect him. Ve r ily We we re before the faces of wh om s o e ver is in the heaven and earth in the
d ays when all the servan ts arose to kill Me, and ve r ily We we re among them ut te r ing the men-
ti on of God and His pra ise and su s ta in ing His mat ter un til the Word of God became a s ce r ta in ed
amon gst His creat ures, His Traces famous, His Power High, and His Dom in i on Spread, and to
t h is the noble servan ts will bear witness. Ve r ily when my brother saw that the mat ter becam e
notor i ous he found in himself pr ide and de lu si on, and accord ingly went forth from be h ind the
veils and fought with Mys e l f, dis puted My signs, fal si f i ed My pro of, and de n i ed My traces; but
the be lly of the gre edy was not satisf i ed un til he de sired to eat My flesh and dr ink My blo o d .
To this, the servan ts will bear witness who fl ed in to exile with God, also the servan ts who are
n ear (to God). In this he con sulted one of My servan ts and in s ti gated him to ac qu i e s ce nce (to that
de ed). But lo! God a s sis ted Me with the hosts of the Seen and the Unseen and pre s e rved Me with
the truth and cau s ed to de s ce nd up on Me that which pre ve n ted him from accompl is h ing that
which he de sired, and stopp ed the cra ftiness of those who de n i ed the signs of the Me rci ful; we re
they not inde ed people of cunn ing and decei t?
When that which his mind had enti ced him to do became div ul ged and the exiles we re co g n iz an t
of his wile, the noise of tumult was ra is ed by these people, who at ta in ed to such a deg ree as to
become known almost throu g h out the ci t y; then We pre ve n ted them and be s towed up on them
the word of pati e nce that they should inde ed be of those who forbear.
By God who is the only God and there is no God but He! Ve r ily We we re patient and truly We
comm anded the servan ts to prac ti ce endurance and forbearance. We went out from amon gs t
those people and settled in another house in order that the fire of violent hat red might be
que nc h ed in his breast and he be of those who are guided. We did not obj ect to him, neither did
We see him a fter that; We sat in the house wa i ting for the bounty of God, the Protec tor, the Self-
e xis te n t. Ve r ily when he knew that the mat ter had become notor i ous, he to ok the pen of lies and
w rote to the servan ts at t r ibuting all that which he comm i t ted, to My Beaut y, the Oppre s s ed, the
One, for the purpose of creating dis cord among the servan ts, and sow ing hat red in the brea s ts
of those who be l i e ved in God, the Preci ous, the be loved .

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
By the life of Him in whose hand My soul is, We we re a s ton is h ed at his deceit and all the cre-
ati on of both the Seen and Unseen we re a s ton is h ed by him. Notw i t hs tand ing that which was in
h is heart ab ated not un til he comm i t ted that which the pen dare not write, and by which he
de s t royed My re ve re nce; the re ve re nce of God, the Mi g h t y, the Preci ous, the Pra is e wor t h y. We re
I to menti on that which he did, such de eds could not be ful f ill ed and classi f i ed even we re all the
s eas of the earth reduced to ink and all the thin gs of the earth tran sfor m ed in to pens. Thus do
We dictate that which has befallen Mys e l f; we re ye of those who know.
Unity within the Cause and the tran sfor m ati on and con ve rsi on of the Bábí be l i e ve rs to His Faith at
t h at point in time we re so imp or tant that a large number of mov ing addresses in this Tablet are direc t-
ed to the Bábí commun i ties and their leade rs. The themes of the addresses in the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al recall
to mind the con tent of the Ki t á b -i-Bádí which to gether we re widely circul ated and eage rly read by the
be l i e ve rs, brin ging ab out a maj or tran sfor m ati on of the newly born Bahá’í commun i ti e s. Examples of
such addresses are num e rous in this Sú r ih :
O People of el-Be yan! Should ye not a s sist Him, God will a s sist Him by the hosts of earth and
h eaven and those of the Unseen, through His Comm and which is “Be” and it is! And He will
s e nd forth by His Will ce r ta in people who are unknown to an yone but Him s e l f, the Protec tor,
the Self- e xis tent, and purify them from the stra in of sur m ise and pa s si on, and elevate them to
the rank of sanc ti t y, and by them He will cause to app ear the traces of the Glory of His Kin gdom
on earth: thus was it dec re ed on the part of God, the Mi g h t y, the Be loved .
O People of El-B ayán! Do ye deny the One for whose meeting ye we re created, and still ye are of
those who sit in your pl ace and rej oi ce? Do ye obj ect to Him, the one hair of whose head is ,
before God, be t ter than all there is in heaven and earth and still do ye scoff at Him ?
O People of El-B ayán! Show forth that which ye have, that I may know by wh at pro of ye have
be l i e ved in the man i fe s tati on of the Comm and of God in the past, and to d ay by wh at evide nce
do ye magnify yours e l ve s?
By the One who hath created Me from the Light of His Beaut y, I have never found among the
n eg l ec tful, one of such neg l i ge nce, or among the ignorant, one of such ignorance, as ye are. Ye
take as an evide nce for your be l i ef in God, the Tabl e ts which ye have in your possessi on, but
when the Signs came down and the Lamp gave Light, ye de n i ed the One through whose Pen all
m at te rs we re dec re ed in a Pre s e rved Tabl e t. Do ye read the signs and deny their Origin ator and
Re veal e r? Thus hath God seiz ed (de pr ived) your sight as a pun is hment for your ac ti ons; we re ye
of those who perceive: Do ye write the ve rses at eve n tide and daw n, and from the One wh o
cau s ed them to de s ce nd ye conceal yours e l ve s? And to d ay the Supreme Assembly will see you in
the mis c h i ef of your de eds and disavow you wh ilst ye are of those who do not hear; and the on e
w ill a s k, and then anot h e r: “W h at do these ignorant people say, and in wh at vale do they re s t?
Do they close their eyes, wh ile yet they see?” By God, O people, the inh abi tan ts of the Ci ties of
Names, became perpl e xed by your ac ti ons, and still in the bar ren valley ye are be w ilde red, and
do not conceive.43
Names, Titles and Stations were Created by Bahá’u’lláh
Names, titles and stati ons for all we re created by Him and should not become veils be tween Him and
those who search a fter Him. This theme runs through a number of Tabl e ts and maj or works of
B ahá’u’ lláh such as the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán and is re p eated in this Sú r ih with sim il ar force and clar i t y. The
pre m ise is that the Most Great Spirit at var i ous times in man’s his tory has man i fe s ted His Names and
At t r ibutes in a chosen pure soul, con fe r r ing on each a specific name and ti t l e. Each of these
Dis p e n sati ons has chosen to name a succe s s or and a s sign titles to the people of their age. They have nom-
in ated pl aces of worship and elevated the ranks of their chosen people and pl aces ab ove all ot h e rs.
E xamples of these names and titles are Moses, Jesus Chr ist, Moh amm ad and the Báb for proph e ts ;
Haron, Pe te r, ‘A lí, and Ya˙yá for app oin tees; Jerusal e m, Mecca, synago g ues, churches, te mples and
2 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
mo sques for pl aces of wors h i p; and the Torah, Gospels, Qur’án, and Bayán for Scripture s. It re m a ins for
e ve ry man to reco g n ize the Aut h or of these app oin t m e n ts, and not to let at tac hment to any of these
de ter him from reco g n izing Him in His New Name and Title wh e n e ver and wh e re ver He chooses to man-
i fest Himself aga in .
B ahá’u’ lláh refe rs to this common theme and poin ts to the status of two pl aces of honor and wors h i p,
the ‘A l-A qsá Mo sque in Jerusalem and the Black Stone in the House of Mecca, and asks a novel que s ti on
ab out the source of honor for these pl ace s.
Ve r ily should we take a hand ful of dust and emb roider it with the emb roide red garment of the
Names, we are inde ed able and this is a bounty on my part up on it and not accord ing to its
de s e r ts. Thus hath it de s ce nded of a truth from the Pre s e nce of the ab o de of the Omn is ci e n t.
L o ok to the Blac k s tone of Ca aba, Mecca, which God hath made the obj ect of pil g r im age to the
p eople; is this bounty from the stone its e l f? No, by My Soul !
A nd is this glory from its e l f? No, by Mys e l f, which the knowl ed ge of eve ry lear n ed and wise man
fa il ed to compre h e nd. Aga in lo ok to the Ma s jid el-A k sa (a mo sque bu ilt up on the si te of the
Te mple of Jerusal e m) and ot h e rs which we have made pl aces of circuit to the people of all side s
and regi ons; such honor is not to be at t r ibuted un to them, but un to Our Man i fe s tati ons wh i c h
we have made the rising pl aces of Our Re ve l ati on among the servan ts, we re ye of those wh o
know. Ve r ily there is wis dom in all this which no one knoweth but God. Ask that God may poin t
out un to you that which He will e t h, ve r ily He is the Omn is ci e n t.44
He then comm ands man to purify his heart and soul from all at tac hm e n ts, love, and hate, in order to
sanc tify himself for His reco g n i ti on :
O peopl e! Cut yours e l ves from the world and its gold, and do not lo ok to those who de n i ed God
and a s s o ci ated other thin gs with Him; but lo ok to the hor iz on of the Re ve l ati on (Be yan) for the
purpose of ce l eb rating your Lord, the Me rci ful. This is wh at God hath will ed, bl e s s ed are those
who know.
Say, O peopl e! We have comm anded you in the tabl e ts to sanc tify yours e l ves on that occa si on of
the App earance, from all the names, and that which was created in earth and heave n, in orde r
t h at the tran sf i g urati on of the Sun of Tr uth from the hor iz on of the will of your Lord the
Powe r ful, the Great, be pr in ted up on your soul s. Also, we have comm anded you to purify your
h ear ts from the love and de te s tati on of those who are up on the ear t h, lest an y t h ing will pre ve n t
you from one direc ti on and enforce you to anot h e r, and this is of my greatest ad v i ce un to you
in a pers pi cuous Tabl e t. He who adh e reth to either the one or the other ve r ily he cannot know
the Comm and as it is, un to this will bear witness eve ry just and in for m ed on e. Ye have forgot-
ten the Prom ise of God, and viol ated His Cove n ant in such a manner that ye tur n ed away from
the One by whose App earance the eyes of the Unitar i ans we re con s ol ed. Purify your sight from
the hidden and the veil ed, then lo ok to the evide nces of the Proph e ts and Me s s e n ge rs, that ye
m ay know the Mat ter of God in these days wh e rein the Prom is ed One hath come with great sov-
e rei g n t y.
Fear God and de pr ive not yours e l ves from the Risin g-P l ace of the signs; this is that wh e reby you
w ill be prof i ted; ve r ily your Lord is the Ri c h, and He is su ff i cient for all the world. Ve r ily He
e ve rl a s tingly was, and there was not h ing be side Him .
He makes de tac hment from names His greatest ad v i ce to man :
We have comm anded you to purify your hear ts from the love and de te s tati on of those who are
up on the ear t h, lest an y t h ing will pre vent you from one direc ti on and enforce you to anot h e r,
and this is of my greatest ad v i ce un to you in a pers pi cuous Tabl e t. He who adh e reth to ei t h e r
2 2

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
the one or the other ve r ily he cannot know the Comm and as it is, un to this will bear witness
e ve ry just and in for m ed on e. Ye have forgot ten the Prom ise of God, and viol ated His Cove n an t
in such a manner that ye tur n ed away from the One by whose App earance the eyes of the
U n i tar i ans we re con s ol ed. Purify your sight from the hidden and the veil ed, then lo ok to the evi-
de nces of the Proph e ts and Me s s e n ge rs, that ye may know the Mat ter of God in these days wh e re-
in the Prom is ed One hath come with great sove rei g n t y.
Fear God and de pr ive not yours e l ves from the Risin g-P l ace of the signs; this is that wh e reby you
w ill be prof i ted; ve r ily your Lord is the Ri c h, and He is su ff i cient for all the world. Ve r ily He
e ve rl a s tingly was, and there was not h ing be side Him.
Teachings Enshrined Within This Súrih
T h is Tablet also con ta ins a great number of the teac h in gs of the Faith on a variety of subj ec ts. Som e
e xamples of these teac h in gs are briefly de s c r ibed be low:
i) Man’s happiness lies in his sub m is si on to the Will of his Lord. There is neither refu ge nor sav i or for
h im except his Lord’s grace.
i i) Strict avoid ance of any mis re pre s e n tati on or chan ges to the Words of the Scripture s.
i i i) All the mean ing and wis dom of the Scriptures of the past are conn ec ted to this mighty Ocean of
Re ve l ati on and all that was prom is ed in the past is ful f ill ed in this lofty Word that has daw n ed from the
Abhá hor iz on .
iv) Blo o d s h ed in the path of the Lord is forbidden. The promoti on and promul gati on of the Cause of
God are only acce p table through the force of rea s on and pure de ed s.
v) The Words of God do not re s e mble the words of man, as His Words are the king of Words, as the
Man i fe s tati on of God is the King of the age.
v i) Pure hear ts, minds, and sight are needed for one to reco g n ize Him in His new man i fe s tati on .
v i i) Ab s tin e nce from all has been forbidde n, but one should neither de pr ive oneself from wh at is law-
ful nor exert hardship on on e s e l f.
Appendix I—History of Jerusalem
14th Century BCE The name Jerusalem app ear in diplom atic cor re s p onde nce as Ur u sal im in the
A m arna Lette r.
1010–970 BCE
The reign of King Dav id
King Dav id establ ishes Jerusalem as the capi tal of the United Kin gdom of Israe l .
970–931
The reign of King Solomon
King Solomon comm e nces con s t r uc ti on of the First Te mpl e.
The Div isi on of the Kin gdom in to Israel and Jud ah .
A s s y r i ans con quer the Northern Kin gdom of Israel and pl ace ten of the twe l ve tribe s
of Israel in slave ry and eve n t u ally dis p e rse them.
B ab ylon i ans cap t ure Jerusal e m .
T h ird in va si on of Nebuc h adn e z z ar, and the de s t r uc ti on of Jerusal e m, its Te mple and
the exile of the Jews to Bab ylon .
Fall of Bab ylon .
The edict of Cy r u s
The re t urn of ab out 50,000 Jews from Bab ylon by edict of Cy r u s.
Work begins on rebu ild ing of the Te mpl e
2 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
C ompl e ti on and re- ded i cati on of the Second Te mple (The 6th year of the reign of
Dar i u s)
E z ra the Scribe comes from Bab ylon — L aw re v ived .
N e h e m i ah app oin ted gove r nor of Judea by Artaxe r xes, re t urns from Bab ylon —
rebu ilds the city wall s.
A l e xander the Great defeats Darius and cap t ures Jerusal e m .
Egy p ti an Ptolemy cap t ures Jerusal e m .
S e l eucid kin g, Anti o c hus IV Epi ph anes (175 –163) out l aws Jud a ism and on Dece mbe r
25 t h, profanes the Te mpl e.
Jud ah Maccabee cap t ures Jerusalem and re s tores the Te mpl e.
G e n e ral Pompey cap t ures Jerusalem for Rom e.
Rome app oin ts He rod King of Judea (rei g n ed 40–A . D. 4)
King He rod cap t ures Jerusal e m .
He rod star ts ac t u al rebu ild ing of the Te mpl e.
A lt h ough not compl e te un til A.D. 63, Te mple is ded i cated .
B.C.E. to C.E./A . D.
Cr uci f ixi on of Jesus Chr is t
41–44
Ag r i ppa, king of Judea bu ild new city wall (The Third Wall)
Te mple compl e ted
66–73
The great Re volt—The war of the Jews aga inst the Rom an s.
Fall of Jerusalem and the de s t r uc ti on of the second Te mple by Ti t u s.
132–135
B ar Ko c hb a’s war of fre edom — J e r u salem the Jewish Capi tal .
E mp e ror Hadr i an’s total de s t r uc ti on of Jerusalem. Rebu ild ing of new walls and new
city re n am ed Aelia Capi tol ina. Jews not allowed in Jerusal e m .
Queen Helena, mother of Emp e ror Con s tan tine the Great, visi ts Jerusal e m, de te r-
m ines lo cati ons of eve n ts a s s o ci ated with the last days of Jesus, and causes the
c hurches to be bu ilt to comm e morate them.
E mpress Eudo cia permits Jews to live in Jerusal e m .
Six years a fter Moh amm ed’s deat h, the Cal i ph Omar ente rs Jerusalem and Jews are
re- adm i t ted to Jerusal e m .
D ome of the Rock compl e ted by Cal i ph Abd al-Mal ik
The con s t r uc ti on of the al-A qsa mo sque compl e ted by cal i ph al-Wal id .
Cr u sade rs, led by Godfrey de Bou illon, cap t ure Jerusalem follow ing Pope Urb an’s
call in 1096. Bald w in I dec l ared King of Jerusal e m .
Kurd ish ge n e ral Sal ad in cap t ures Jerusalem. He permits Jews and Mu s l ims to re t ur n
and settle in the ci t y.
Ri c h ard the Li on Heart fa ils to cap t ure Jerusalem. Treaty with Sal ad in permittin g
C hr is ti ans to worship at their Holy si te s.
City walls raz ed by Sultan Mal ik- al-Mu at tam .
K h awar iz m i an Turks cap t ure Jerusal e m .
Mam e luk Sultan defeats the Ayy ubids and rule Jerusal e m .
2 4

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
The Mam e luk of Egypt cap t ure Jerusal e m .
Rabbi Moshe Ben Nahm an ar r ives from Spa in, re v ives the Jewish con g regati on and
e s tabl ishes synago g ue and ce n ter of lear n in g.
The Black Plag ue hits Jerusal e m .
O t tom ans effect peaceful takeover of Jerusal e m .
1537–1541
U n wall ed since 1219, Sultan Sul eim an (“The Mag n i f i ce n t”) rebu ilds the city wall s
inc lud ing the present day 7 gates and the Tower of Dav id, the Dam a s cus gate in
1542 .
First con sul ate (Br i tis h) op e n ed in Jerusal e m .
First Jewish settlement outside walls of the ci t y.
Br i tish con quest and General All e nb y’s entry in to Jerusal e m .
Br i tish Mand ate ends and the State of Israel pro c l a im ed .
I s rael dec l ares Jerusalem as its capi tal .
I s rael cap t ures the Old City and reun i tes Jerusal e m .
Appendix II—Some of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Interpretations
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s in te r pre tati on of some chap te rs of the Old Te s tam e n ts books of Daniel and Isa i ah, and
the New Te s tament Re ve l ati on of St. John recorded in S ome Answe red Que s ti on s prov ides the basis for
unde rs tand ing the symb ol ism of these book s. Few re l ated sec ti ons from S ome Answe red Que s ti on s t h at
prov ide dates and eve n ts sur round ing the fate of Jerusalem and its Te mple as has been proph e si ed in the
Bible and their ful f illment in the Bahá’í Faith are re pro duced here (SAQ, pp. 40–55) :
To conc lude: in the Book of Daniel, from the rebu ild ing of Jerusalem to the mar t y rdom of
C hr ist, seventy weeks are app oin ted; for by the mar t y rdom of Chr ist the sac r i f i ce is accom-
pl is h ed and the altar de s t royed. This is a proph ecy of the man i fe s tati on of Chr is t. These seve n-
ty weeks begin with the re s torati on and the rebu ild ing of Jerusal e m, conce r n ing which four
ed i c ts we re is sued by three kin gs.
The first was is sued by Cyrus in the year 536 B.C.; this is recorded in the first chap ter of the
B o ok of Ezra. The second edict, with refe re nce to the rebu ild ing of Jerusal e m, is that of Dar i u s
of Pe rsia in the year 519 B.C.; this is recorded in the sixth chap ter of Ezra. The third is that of
A r taxe r xes in the seventh year of his rei g n — t h at is, in 457 B.C.; this is recorded in the seve n t h
c h ap ter of Ezra. The fourth is that of Artaxe r xes in the year 444 B.C.; this is recorded in the
s econd chap ter of Nehemiah .
But Daniel refe rs especi ally to the third edict, which was is sued in the year 457 B.C. Seve n t y
weeks make four hundred and ninety days. Each day, accord ing to the te xt of the Holy Book, is
a year. For in the Bible it is sa id: “The day of the Lord is one year.” Therefore, four hundred and
n inety days are four hundred and ninety years. The third edict of Artaxe r xes was is sued four
hundred and fift y-s e ven years before the birth of Chr ist, and Chr ist when He was mar t y red and
a s ce nded was thir t y-t hree years of age. When you add thir t y-t hree to four hundred and fift y-
s e ve n, the re sult is four hundred and nin e t y, which is the time announced by Daniel for the man-
i fe s tati on of Chr is t.
But in the twe n t y-f i fth ve rse of the ninth chap ter of the Book of Daniel this is expre s s ed in
another mann e r, as seven weeks and sixt y-two weeks; and apparently this diffe rs from the firs t
say in g. Many have re m a in ed perpl e xed at these diffe re nces, try ing to reconcile these two state-
m e n ts. How can seventy weeks be right in one pl ace, and sixt y-two weeks and seven weeks in
anot h e r? These two say in gs do not accord .
2 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
But Daniel menti ons two date s. One of these dates begins with the comm and of Artaxe r xes to
E z ra to rebu ild Jerusalem: this is the seventy weeks which came to an end with the a s ce n si on of
C hr ist, when by His mar t y rdom the sac r i f i ce and obl ati on cea s ed .
The second period, which is found in the twe n t y-sixth ve rse, means that a fter the te r m in ati on of
the rebu ild ing of Jerusalem un til the a s ce n si on of Chr ist, there will be sixt y-two we e k s: the
s e ven weeks are the durati on of the rebu ild ing of Jerusal e m, which to ok for t y-n ine years. When
you add these seven weeks to the sixt y-two weeks, it makes sixt y-n ine weeks, and in the last we e k
(69-70) the a s ce n si on of Chr ist to ok pl ace. These seventy weeks are thus compl e ted, and there is
no con t rad i c ti on .
Now that the man i fe s tati on of Chr ist has been proved by the proph ecies of Daniel, let us prove
the man i fe s tati ons of Bahá’u’ lláh and of the Báb. Up to the present we have only menti on ed
rati on al pro ofs; now we shall speak of trad i ti on al pro ofs.
In the eighth chap ter of the Book of Daniel, ve rse thir te e n, it is sa id: “Then I heard one sa in t
s p eakin g, and another sa int sa id un to that ce r ta in sa int which spake, How long shall be the
v isi on conce r n ing the daily sac r i f i ce, and the tran sg re s si on of de s ol ati on, to give both the sanc-
t u ary and the host to be tro dden under fo ot?” Then he an s we red (v. 14): “U n to two thou sand and
t hree hundred days; then shall the sanc t u ary be clean s ed”; (v. 17) “But he sa id un to me ... at the
time of the end shall be the visi on .” That is to say, how long will this misfor t une, this ruin, this
abasement and deg rad ati on last? mean in g, when will be the dawn of the Man i fe s tati on? Then he
an s we red, “Two thou sand and three hundred days; then shall the sanc t u ary be clean s ed .” Br i efl y,
the pur p ort of this pa s sage is that he app oin ts two thou sand three hundred years, for in the te xt
of the Bible each day is a year. Then from the date of the is su ing of the edict of Artaxe r xes to
rebu ild Jerusalem un til the day of the birth of Chr ist there are 456 years, and from the birth of
C hr ist un til the day of the man i fe s tati on of the Báb t h e re are 1844 years. When you add 456
years to this number it makes 2300 years. That is to say, the ful f illment of the visi on of Dan i e l
to ok pl ace in the year A.D. 1844, and this is the year of the Báb’s man i fe s tati on accord ing to the
ac t u al te xt of the Book of Daniel. Con sider how clearly he de te r m ines the year of man i fe s tati on ;
t h e re could be no clearer proph ecy for a man i fe s tati on than this.
In Mat t h e w, chap ter 24, ve rse 3, Chr ist clearly says that wh at Daniel meant by this proph ecy wa s
the date of the man i fe s tati on, and this is the ve rs e: “As He sat up on the mount of Ol ives, the
d is ci ples came un to Him pr ivate l y, say in g, Te ll us, when shall these thin gs be? and wh at shall be
the sign of Thy com in g, and of the end of the world?” One of the expl an ati ons He gave them in
re ply was this (v. 15): “When ye therefore shall see the ab om in ati on of de s ol ati on, spoken of by
Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy pl ace, (whoso reade t h, let him unde rs tand).” In this an s we r
He refe r red them to the eighth chap ter of the Book of Daniel, say ing that eve ryone who reads it
w ill unde rs tand that it is this time that is spoken of. Con sider how clearly the man i fe s tati on of
the Báb is spoken of in the Old Te s tament and in the Gospel.
To conc lude, let us now expl a in the date of the man i fe s tati on of Bahá’u’ lláh from the Bibl e. The
d ate of Bahá’u’ lláh is calcul ated accord ing to lun ar years from the mis si on and the Hejira of
Muh amm ad; for in the re l i gi on of Muh amm ad the lun ar year is in use, as also it is the lun ar year
which is employed conce r n ing all comm ands of wors h i p.
In Daniel, chap ter 12, ve rse 6, it is sa id: “A nd one sa id to the man clot h ed in lin e n, which wa s
up on the wate rs of the rive r, How long shall it be to the end of these wonde rs? And I heard the
m an clot h ed in lin e n, which was up on the wate rs of the rive r, when he held up his right hand and
h is left hand un to heave n, and sware by Him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a time, tim e s ,
and a hal f; and that when He shall have accompl is h ed to scat ter the power of the holy peopl e ,
all these thin gs shall be fin is h ed .”
2 6

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
As I have already expl a in ed the si g n i f i cati on of one day, it is not nece s sary to expl a in it fur t h e r;
but we will say briefly that each day of the Father coun ts as a year, and in each year there are
twe l ve mon t hs. Thus three years and a half make for t y-two mon t hs, and for t y-two mon t hs are
twe l ve hundred and sixty days. The Báb, the precurs or of Bahá’u’ lláh, app eared in the year 1260
from the Hejira of Muh amm ad, by the rec kon ing of Islám .
Afte rward, in ve rse 11, it is sa id: “A nd from the time that the daily sac r i f i ce shall be taken away,
and the ab om in ati on that maketh de s ol ati on be set up, there shall be a thou sand two hundred
and ninety days. Blessed is he that wa i te t h, and cometh to the thou sand three hundred and five
and thirty days.”
The beginn ing of this lun ar rec kon ing is from the day of the pro c l am ati on of the proph e t h o o d
of Muh amm ad in the coun t ry of Hijáz; and that was three years a fter His mis si on, because in
the beginn ing the prophethood of Muh amm ad was kept sec ret, and no one knew it save
K h adíjah and Ibn Naw fal. After three years it was announced. And Bahá’u’ lláh, in the year 1290
from the pro c l am ati on of the mis si on of Muh amm ad, cau s ed His man i fe s tati on to be know n .
Commentary on the Eleventh Chapter of St. John
In the beginn ing of the eleventh chap ter of the Re ve l ati on of St. John it is sa id :
“A nd there was given me a re ed like un to a rod: and the an gel stood, say in g, Rise, and mea sure
the te mple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein .
“But the court which is without the te mple leave out, and mea sure it not; for it is given un to the
G e n til e s: and the holy city shall they tread under fo ot forty and two mon t hs.”
T h is re ed is a Pe r fect Man Who is like n ed to a re ed, and the manner of its likeness is this: wh e n
the in te r i or of a re ed is empty and free from all mat te r, it will pro duce beauti ful melodies; and
as the sound and melodies do not come from the re ed, but from the flute pl ayer who blows up on
it, so the sanc ti f i ed heart of that bl e s s ed Being is free and emp ti ed from all save God, pure and
e xe mpt from the at tac hm e n ts of all hum an cond i ti ons, and is the compan i on of the Div in e
Spir i t. Whate ver He ut te rs is not from Him s e l f, but from the real flute pl aye r, and it is a div in e
in s pirati on. That is why He is like n ed to a re ed; and that re ed is like a ro d — t h at is to say, it is
the helper of eve ry imp otent one, and the supp ort of hum an bein gs. It is the rod of the Div in e
S h e ph e rd by which He guards His flock and leads them ab out the pa s t ures of the Kin gdom .
Then it is sa id: “The an gel stood, say in g, Rise, and mea sure the te mple of God, and the altar,
and them that worship therein”— t h at is to say, compare and mea sure: mea sur ing is the dis cove ry
of prop or ti on. Thus the an gel sa id: compare the te mple of God and the altar and them that are
pray ing therein — t h at is to say, in ve s ti gate wh at is their true cond i ti on and dis cover in wh at
deg ree and state they are, and wh at cond i ti ons, perfec ti ons, be h av i or and at t r ibutes they pos-
sess; and make yourself co g n iz ant of the mys teries of those holy souls who dwe ll in the Holy of
Holies in purity and sanc ti t y.
“But the court which is without the te mple leave out, and mea sure it not; for it is given un to the
G e n til e s.”
In the beginn ing of the seventh ce n t ury a fter Chr ist, when Jerusalem was con que red, the Hol y
of Holies was outwardly pre s e rved — t h at is to say, the house which Solomon bu ilt; but outside the
Holy of Holies the outer court was taken and given to the Gentil e s. “A nd the holy city shall they
t read under fo ot forty and two mon t hs”— t h at is to say, the Gentiles shall govern and con t rol
J e r u salem forty and two mon t hs, si g n i f y ing twe l ve hundred and sixty days; and as each day si g-
nifies a year, by this rec kon ing it becomes twe l ve hundred and sixty years, which is the durati on
2 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of the cycle of the Qur’án. For in the te xts of the Holy Book, each day is a year; as it is sa id in
the fourth chap ter of Ezekiel, ve rse 6: “T h ou shalt bear the in iquity of the house of Jud ah for t y
d ays: I have app oin ted thee each day for a year.”
T h is proph e sies the durati on of the Dis p e n sati on of Islám when Jerusalem was tro dden unde r
fo ot, which means that it lost its glory — but the Holy of Holies was pre s e rved, guarded and
re s p ec ted — un til the year 1260. This twe l ve hundred and sixty years is a proph ecy of the man i-
fe s tati on of the Báb, the “G ate” of Bahá’u’ lláh, which to ok pl ace in the year 1260 of the Hejira
of Muh amm ad, and as the period of twe l ve hundred and sixty years has expired, Jerusal e m, the
Holy Ci t y, is now beginn ing to become pro s p e rous, populous and flour is h in g. Anyone who saw
J e r u salem sixty years ago, and who sees it now, will reco g n ize how populous and flour is h ing it
has become, and how it is aga in honored .
T h is is the outward mean ing of these ve rses of the Re ve l ati on of St. John; but they have anot h-
er expl an ati on and a symb olic sense, which is as follows: the Law of God is div ided in to two
par ts. One is the fund am e n tal basis which compr ises all spir i t u al thin gs— t h at is to say, it refe rs
to the spir i t u al vir t ues and div ine qu al i ties; this does not chan ge nor alte r: it is the Holy of
Holies, which is the essence of the Law of Ad am, Noah, Ab rah am, Moses, Chr ist, Muh amm ad ,
the Báb, and Bahá’u’ lláh, and which lasts and is establ is h ed in all the proph e tic cyc l e s. It will
n e ver be ab ro gated, for it is spir i t u al and not mate r i al trut h; it is fa i t h, knowl ed ge, ce r ti t ude ,
j u s ti ce, pi e t y, righteousness, trustwor t h iness, love of God, be n e vol e nce, pur i t y, de tac hm e n t ,
hum il i t y, meekness, pati e nce and con s tanc y. It shows mercy to the poor, defe nds the oppre s s ed ,
gives to the wre tc h ed and upl i fts the fall e n .
These div ine qu al i ties, these ete r n al comm andm e n ts, will never be ab ol is h ed; nay, they will last
and re m a in establ is h ed fore ver and eve r. These vir t ues of hum anity will be re n e wed in each of
the diffe rent cycles; for at the end of eve ry cycle the spir i t u al Law of God—that is to say, the
hum an vir t ue s—d isapp ears, and only the form sub sis ts.
T hus among the Jews, at the end of the cycle of Moses, which coincides with the Chr is ti an man-
i fe s tati on, the Law of God disapp eared, only a form without spirit re m a in in g. The Holy of
Holies de par ted from among them, but the outer court of Jerusal e m — which is the expre s si on
u s ed for the form of the re l i gi on — fe ll in to the hands of the Gentil e s. In the same way, the fun-
d am e n tal pr inci ples of the re l i gi on of Chr ist, which are the greatest vir t ues of hum an i t y, have
d isapp eared; and its form has re m a in ed in the hands of the clergy and the pr i e s ts. Like w ise, the
found ati on of the re l i gi on of Muh amm ad has disapp eared, but its form re m a ins in the hands of
the off i ci al `ul am á.
These found ati ons of the Re l i gi on of God, which are spir i t u al and which are the vir t ues of
hum an i t y, cannot be ab ro gated; they are ir re movable and ete r n al, and are re n e wed in the cyc l e
of eve ry Proph e t.
The second part of the Re l i gi on of God, which refe rs to the mate r i al world, and which compr is-
es fa s tin g, praye r, forms of wors h i p, mar r i age and divorce, the ab ol i ti on of slave ry, legal pro ce s s-
es, tran sac ti ons, inde mn i ties for murde r, viol e nce, theft and inj ur i e s— t h is part of the Law of
God, which refe rs to mate r i al thin gs, is mo d i f i ed and alte red in each proph e tic cycle in accor-
d ance with the nece s si ties of the tim e s.
Br i efl y, wh at is meant by the term Holy of Holies is that spir i t u al Law which will never be mo d-
i f i ed, alte red or ab ro gated; and the Holy City means the mate r i al Law which may be ab ro gated ;
and this mate r i al Law, which is de s c r ibed as the Holy Ci t y, was to be tro dden under fo ot for
twe l ve hundred and sixty years.
2 8

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
“A nd I will give power un to my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thou sand two hundred
and thre e-s core days, clot h ed in sac kc lot h .” These two witnesses are Muh amm ad the Me s s e n ge r
of God, and ‘A lí, son of Abú Tál ib.
In the Qur’án it is sa id that God addre s s ed Muh amm ad, the Me s s e n ger of God, say in g: “We made
You a Witness, a He rald of good news, and a War n e r”— t h at is to say, We have establ is h ed Thee
as the witness, the giver of good tid in gs, and as One brin ging the wrath of God. The mean in g
of “a witness” is one by whose te s timony thin gs may be ve r i f i ed. The comm ands of these two
witnesses we re to be perfor m ed for twe l ve hundred and sixty days, each day si g n i f y ing a year.
Now, Muh amm ad was the ro ot, and `A lí the branc h, like Moses and Jo s hua. It is sa id they “are
c lot h ed in sac kc lot h,” mean ing that they, appare n t l y, we re to be clot h ed in old ra iment, not in
new ra im e n t; in other words, in the beginn ing they would possess no spl e ndor in the eyes of the
p eople, nor would their Cause app ear new; for Muh amm ad’s spir i t u al Law cor re s p onds to that
of Chr ist in the Gospel, and most of His laws re l ating to mate r i al thin gs cor re s p ond to those
of the Pe n tateuch. This is the mean ing of the old ra im e n t.
Then it is sa id: “These are the two ol ive trees, and the two candl e s ticks stand ing before the God
of the ear t h .” These two souls are like n ed to ol ive trees because at that time all lamps we re light-
ed by ol ive oil. The mean ing is two pers ons from wh om that spirit of the wis dom of God, wh i c h
is the cause of the illum in ati on of the world, app ears. These lights of God we re to rad i ate and
s h ine; therefore, they are like n ed to two candl e s ti c k s: the candl e s tick is the ab o de of the light,
and from it the light shines forth. In the same way the light of guid ance would shine and rad i-
ate from these illum in ed soul s.
Then it is sa id: “They are stand ing before God,” mean ing that they are stand ing in the serv i ce
of God, and educating the creat ures of God, such as the barb arous nom ad Arab tribes of the
A rabi an penin sula, wh om they educated in such a way that in those days they reac h ed the high-
est deg ree of civ il iz ati on, and their fame and re nown became world w ide …
The people for fei ted all that these two pers ons had establ is h ed, which was the found ati on of the
L aw of God, and de s t royed the vir t ues of the world of hum an i t y, which are the div ine gi fts and
the spirit of this re l i gi on, to such a deg ree that trut h fulness, justi ce, love, un i on, pur i t y, sanc-
ti t y, de tac hment and all the div ine qu al i ties de par ted from among them. In the re l i gi on onl y
praye rs and fa s ting persis ted; this cond i ti on lasted for twe l ve hundred and sixty years, which is
the durati on of the cycle of the Fur qán. It was as if these two pers ons we re dead, and their bod-
ies we re re m a in ing without spir i t.
“A nd a fter three days and a half the spirit of life from God ente red in to them, and they sto o d
up on their fe e t; and great fear fe ll up on them that saw them.” Three days and a hal f, as we before
e xpl a in ed, is twe l ve hundred and sixty years. Those two pers ons whose bodies we re lying spir i t-
less are the teac h in gs and the law that Muh amm ad establ is h ed and `A lí promoted, from wh i c h,
h owe ve r, the reality had de par ted and only the form re m a in ed. The spirit came aga in in to them
m eans that those found ati ons and teac h in gs we re aga in establ is h ed. In other words, the spir i t u-
ality of the Re l i gi on of God had been chan ged in to mate r i al i t y, and vir t ues in to vices; the love
of God had been chan ged in to hat red, enl i g h te nment in to darkness, div ine qu al i ties in to satan-
ic ones, justi ce in to tyrann y, mercy in to enm i t y, sincerity in to hypocris y, guid ance in to error,
and purity in to sensu al i t y. Then a fter three days and a hal f, which by the te r m inolo gy of the
Holy Books is twe l ve hundred and sixty years, these div ine teac h in gs, heave nly vir t ues, perfec-
ti ons and spir i t u al boun ties we re aga in re n e wed by the app earance of the Báb and the de voti on
of Jin á b -i-Quddú s.
The holy breezes we re diffu s ed, the light of truth shone for t h, the sea s on of the life-giv in g
s pr ing came, and the morn of guid ance daw n ed. These two lifeless bodies aga in became liv in g,
2 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
and these two great on e s—one the Founder and the other the promote r—arose and we re like two
candl e s ticks, for they illum in ed the world with the light of trut h .
Appendix III—The Council of Nicea and The Birth of Trinity
T h e re are diffe rent views on the impl i cati ons of this Council. Three diffe rent pre s e n tati ons of this
subj ect are quoted here:
1) The Council of Nicea - In June 325 the council op e n ed and con tinued for two mon t hs, with
C on s tan tine at te nd in g. The bis h ops mo d i f i ed an exis ting cre ed to fit their pur p o s e s. The cre ed, with
s ome chan ges made at a later fourth ce n t ury council, is still given to d ay in many churc h e s. The Nice n e
Cre ed, as it came to be call ed, takes elab orate care by re p eating seve ral redund ancies to ide n tify the Son
with the Father rather than with the creati on :
“We be l i e ve in one God, the Father Alm i g h t y, maker of all thin gs visible and in v isible; and in on e
L ord Jesus Chr ist, the Son of God, the onl y-begot ten of his Fat h e r, of the sub s tance of the Fat h e r, God
of God, Light of Light, ve ry God of ve ry God, begot te n, not made, being of one sub s tance with the
Fat h e r. By wh om all thin gs we re made...W h o...was incar n ate and was made hum an … .”
O nly two bis h ops, along with Arius, refu s ed to sign the cre ed. Con s tan tine ban is h ed them from the
e mpire, wh ile the other bis h ops went on to ce l eb rate their unity in a great feast at the imp e r i al pal ace.
The cre ed is much more than an a ff ir m ati on of Jesu s’ div in i t y. It is also an a ff ir m ati on of our sepa-
rati on from God and Chr is t. It takes great pa ins to de s c r ibe Jesus as God in order to deny that he is par t
of God’s creati on. He is “begot te n, not made ,” therefore totally separate from us, the created bein gs. As
s c h ol ar George Leon ard Pre s ti ge writes, the Nicene Cre ed’s de s c r i p ti on of Jesus te lls us “t h at the Son of
God bears no re s e mbl ance to the...c reat ure s.”
The de s c r i p ti on of Jesus as the only Son of God is car r i ed forward in the Ap o s t l e s’ Cre ed, which is
u s ed in many Prote s tant churches to d ay. It read s: “I be l i e ve in God, the Father Alm i g h t y... I be l i e ve in
J e sus Chr ist, his only Son, our Lord .” But even that lan g u age —call ing Jesus God’s only Son —denies that
we can ever at ta in the sonship that Jesus did .
C hr is ti ans may be in te re s ted to know that many schol ars an al y zing the Bible now be l i e ve that Jesu s
n e ver claim ed to be the only Son of God. This was a later de ve lopment based on a misin te r pre tati on of
the gospel of John .
T h e re is further evide nce to su g gest that Jesus be l i e ved all people could ac h i e ve the goal of becom in g
S ons of God. But the churches, by re ta in ing these cre eds, re m a in in bond age to Con s tan tine and his
t hree hundred bis h op s.
S ome of the bis h ops who at te nded the council we re uncom for table with the council’s def in i ti on of the
S on and thought they might have gone too far. But the emp e ror, in a letter sent to the bis h ops who we re
not in at te nd ance at Nicea, re qu ired that they accept “t h is truly Div ine inj unc ti on .”
C on s tan tine sa id that since the council’s decisi on had been “de te r m in ed in the holy a s s e mblies of the
bis h op s” the Church off i ci als must regard it as “ind i cative of the Div ine will .”
The Rom an god Con s tan tine had spoken. Clearl y, he had conc luded that the or t h o dox posi ti on wa s
more conducive to a strong and un i f i ed Church than the Arian posi ti on and that it therefore must be
uph e ld .
C on s tan tine also to ok the opp or t unity to in au g urate the first sys te m atic gove r nment pers ecuti on of
d is sident Chr is ti an s. He is sued an edict aga inst “here ti c s ,” call ing them “hate rs and enemies of truth and
l i fe, in leag ue with de s t r uc ti on .”
Even though he had beg un his reign with an edict of re l i gi ous tol e rati on, he now forb ade the here ti c s
(mostly Arian s) to a s s e mble in any public or pr ivate pl ace, inc lud ing pr ivate homes, and orde red that they
be de pr ived of “e ve ry gat h e r ing point for [t h eir] sup e rs ti ti ous meetin gs ,” inc lud ing “all the houses of
praye r.” These we re to be given to the or t h o dox Churc h .
3 0

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
T h e re, here ti cal teac h e rs we re forced to flee and many of their stude n ts we re co e rced back in to the
or t h o dox fold. The emp e ror also orde red a search for their books, which we re to be con f is cated and
de s t royed. Hid ing the works of Arius car r i ed a seve re penalty—the death sente nce.
N i cea, nevertheless, marked the beginn ing of the end of the conce p ts of both pre e xis te nce, reincar-
n ati on, and sal vati on through un i on with God in Chr is ti an do c t r in e. It to ok another two hundred years
for the ideas to be expun ged .
S ource: http://www. n eardeat h e xp e r i e nce
The Council of Nicea
When Con s tan tine defeated Emp e ror Li cinius in 323 A.D. he ended the pers ecuti ons aga inst the
C hr is ti an church. Shortly a fte rwards Chr is ti ans faced a trouble from within: the Arian con t rove rs y
began and threate n ed to div ide the church. The problem began in Alexandria, it star ted as a deb ate
be tween the bis h op Alexander and the pre sb y ter (pa s tor, or pr i e s t) Arius.
Arius prop o s ed that if the Father begat the Son, the lat ter must have had a beginn in g, that there wa s
a time when he was not, and that his sub s tance was from not h ing like the rest of creati on. The Council
of Nicea, a gat h e r ing sim il ar to the one de s c r ibed in Ac ts 15: 4–22, conde mn ed the be l i efs of Arius and
w rote the first ve rsi on of the now famous cre ed pro c l a im ing that the Son was “one in being with the
Fat h e r” by use of the Greek word “homo ou si u s.”
How Controversial was the Arian Controversy?
T h e re we re some three hundred bis h ops gat h e red at the Council of Nicea from all around the world .
Eu s ebius lis ts many of them and their coun t ry of or i gin in his writin gs. It should be re m e mbe red that
m any of those present had, because of the recent pers ecuti ons, su ffe red and had faced threat of death for
t h eir faith. These we re not wis h y-washy men. It might also be re m arked, that they we re ext remely sensi-
tive to de ta ils of do c t r in e. As evide nce of this, the second maj or concern of the Council of Nicea wa s
to address the hotly deb ated que s ti on of wh at the proper day was to ce l eb rate the re sur rec ti on .
The bis h ops of the Council stopp ed their ears on hear ing the words of Arius and imm ed i ately rej ec t-
ed his teac h ing as dis tant and alien from the be l i ef of the Church. They tore to pi eces a letter of Eu s ebi u s
of Nicom edia con ta in ing Arius’ teac h in g, as we ll as an Arian con fe s si on of faith (see the app e nd ix on
the Council of Nicea in Baker Book Hou s e’s, “Eu s ebi u s’ Ecc l e si a s ti cal His tory” ).
O r i gin ally seve n teen of those bis h ops gat h e red at the council we re un w ill ing to sign the Cre ed penn ed
by the Council, and all but three of these we re con v inced to sign by the end. It is thus apparent that the
A r i ans we re a dis tinct minority among the bis h op s. Initi ally there was some re sis tance to the Nice n e
Cre ed, not because of wh at it sa id but because of how it sa id it. Many obj ec ted to the use of the word
“ h omo ou si a s” in an off i ci al do cument because it was not used in Scripture, de s pi te their ag reement with
the mean ing it con ve yed .
The Council in te r ro gated Arius using Scripture, only to find that he had a new way of in te r pre tin g
e ve ry ve rse they brought before him. Fin all y, they used the arg ument that Arius’ view had to be wron g
because it was new. At h an a sius says, “But conce r n ing mat te rs of fa i t h, they [the bis h ops a s s e mbl ed at
N i cea] did not write: ‘It has been decided ,’ but ‘T hus the Cat h olic Church be l i e ve s.’ And thereup on con-
fe s s ed how they be l i e ved. This they did to show that their jud gement was not of more recent or i gin, but
was in fact of Ap o s tolic tim e s...” (Faith of the Early Fat h e rs, Volume 1, p. 338). In this regard al s o,
At h an a sius a s kes rh e tor i call y, “... how many fat h e rs [in other words, the writin gs of the early Chr is ti an s]
can you ci te for your phra s e s?” (I bid., p. 325)
It must be conc luded, then, that the con t rove rsy was be tween a great maj ority who held the be l i ef that
the do c t r ine expre s s ed by the Nicene Cre ed was ancient and Ap o s tolic, and a minority who be l i e ved that
A r i u s’ new in te r pre tati on of the faith was cor rec t.
3 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Word Homoousious
The Nicene Cre ed in t ro duced the word “homo ou si ou s” or “con sub s tan ti al” mean ing “of one sub-
s tance.” This word was not in ve n ted at the Council. Eu s ebius writes that some of the “most lear n ed and
d is tin g u is h ed of the ancient bis h ops had made use of con sub s tan ti al in treating of the div inity of the
Father and the Son” (See do cument E in the App e nd ix, Bake r). We do not have the sources that Eu s ebi u s
must have had regard ing the use of this word. To d ay, the only source is Origen who used the word in wh at
seems the or t h o dox way (Joh annes Qu a s t re n, “Pat rolo gy,” Volume 2, p. 78). Howe ve r, this phrase of
Eu s ebius stands as a witness to the exis te nce of wider use.
The bis h ops a s s e mbl ed at Nicea we re careful to expl a in how they used the word, and wh at it mean t.
T h is is because it had been misu s ed by Paul of Samo s ta. Regard ing this unor t h o dox usage, St. Hil ary and
St. Basil say that it was sa id to be “unfit to de s c r ibe the re l ati on be tween the Father and the Son” at a
council that met in Antioch (I bid., p. 14). Apparently Paul of Samo s ta appl i ed the word in a manner that
impl i ed div isi on of nat ure, as seve ral coins are from the same metal (B ake r, p. 21).
The Role of Constantine
The con t rove rsy greatly agi tated Emp e ror Con s tan tine, and he sent a letter to Arius and Alexander in
an at te mpt to persu ade them to lay a side their diffe re nce s. He wrote, “T h is con te n ti on has not ar is e n
re s p ec ting any imp or tant comm and of the law, nor has any new opin i on been in t ro duced with regard to
the worship of God; but you both ente r ta in the same sentim e n ts, so that you may join in one commu-
n i on. It is thought to be not only indecorous, but alto gether unl aw ful, that so num e rous a people of God
s h ould be gove r n ed and direc ted at your pl ea sure, wh ile you are thus emulously con te nd ing with eac h
ot h e r, and qu ar re ll ing ab out small and ve ry trifl ing mat te rs.”
It has been su g ge s ted that because Con s tan tine refe r red to the is sue as “t r i fl in g” that he did not real-
ly unde rs tand it. St ran ge l y, it is recorded in a letter by Eu s ebius of Cae sarea that the Emp e ror su g ge s ted
the key word “homo ou si ou s” that app ears in the Nicene Cre ed. He says the Emp e ror expl a in ed the te r m
as we ll, show ing its diffe re nce from the here ti cal usage by Paul of Samo s ta. It has been specul ated that
the Emp e ror made his su g ge s ti on at the promp ting of Ho sius of Cordova, the Emp e ror’s ad v is or and a
m an who was pers ecuted under Maxim i an .
C on s tan tine did pl ay an imp or tant role at the Council. Eu s ebius of Cae sarea re p or ts that he pl ayed an
key part in calm in g, con v incin g, and brin ging all to ag reement on con te s ted poin ts. The account of
Eu s ebius fa irly glows in regard to the Emp e ror, and he is por t rayed as a key figure. It is nowh e re su g-
ge s ted, howe ve r, that he was permitted to vote with the bis h ops nor that he used any form of force to
ob ta in an outcom e.
It may be that the eloque nce and glory of the Emp e ror had sway with some, howe ver it should be
re m e mbe red that he did eve n t u ally (years a fter the Council) supp ort the Arian par t y. A few years a fte r
the Council of Nicea, Arius dis cove red a new way to in te r pret the word “homo ou si u s” that ag re ed with
h is do c t r in e s. He then a s ked to be readm i t ted to commun i on, but the Church refu s ed. Arius then
app eal ed to the Emp e ror. Emp e ror Con s tan tin e’s favor i te sis te r, Con s tan tia, on her deat hbed, implored
C on s tan tine to supp ort Arius and he did so. A date was set for the forcing of the Church to readm i t
Arius, but wh ile he was wa i ting for Con s tan tine to ar r ive Arius stopp ed to re l ive himself and his bow-
els burst and he died. (See A r i ans of the 4th Century, Chap ter III, Sec ti on II by John He nry Newman .)
It is hard to im agine how a man who had supp o s edly arg ued with eloque nce for the Nicene Cre ed and
who supp o s edly for mul ated the key phrase and expl a in ed it would simply ab andon it for a mere sub m is-
si on to the words and not the mean ing of the Cre ed. It is also hard to im agine how the account of
Eu s ebius can be reconcil ed to the Emp e ror’s apparent fa ilure to grasp the is sue apparent in his lette r. It
is also hard to im agine how a man who had been such a humble servant of the Church at Nicea would
at te mpt to force the Church to accept his decisi ons at this later date. It seems rea s on able on these
g rounds to suppose that Eu s ebius of Cae sarea wrote a less than accurate account de si g n ed to give cred i t
and fl at te ry to the emp e ror.
Nor was Con s tan tine the last emp e ror to side with the Arian s. At h an a sius writes conce r n ing this in
“The Monk s’ His tory of Arian Impi e t y” (A . D. 358) say in g, “When did a decisi on of the Church receive
3 2

S ú r a t u’l - Ha y k a l
i ts aut h ority from the emp e ror?” and “n e ver did the fat h e rs seek the consent of the emp e ror for them
[council ar dec rees of the Churc h], nor did the emp e ror busy himself in the Churc h .” He goes on to say
t h at the here tics banded with the emp e ror. (See Faith of the Early Fat h e rs, Volume I, by Will i am Jurge n s.)
The Church was will ing to accept the help of an emp e ror, to lis ten to wh at he had to say, but not to
accept the rule of an emp e ror in mat te rs of faith. Howe ver one de s c r ibes the role of Con s tan tine at the
C ouncil of Nicea, it must be re m e mbe red that the Cre ed of Nicea expre s s ed wh at the great maj ority of
bis h ops at the council found to be trad i ti on al, Bibl i cal, and or t h o dox of the Chr is ti an fa i t h, a faith in
which they be l i e ved so fir mly that they we re will ing to die for it.
S ource: <h t t p ://www.columbi a .edu>
The First Council of Nicea in 325 C.E.
The path to Nicea was paved by the a ffa irs of state. We have seen how Li cinius, co - e mp e ror in the ea s t ,
t r i ed to deal with Church con fl i c ts, especi ally those in vol v ing Arian ism. But there we re other mat te rs
to be dis cu s s ed. The Emp e ror Con s tan tine now tried a new tac k, the concill i ar on e. Thereby he op e n ed
a long trad i ti on for the Churc h .
The Work of the Council
U n for t un ately we do not have the te xt of the letter from Con s tan tine, which con voked the Council of
N i cea. Eu s ebius te lls us that the emp e ror sent each bis h op a ve ry re s p ec tful letter re que s ting that he com e
to Nicea. Since it was an imp e r i al re quest it was diff i cult to dis regard. Nevertheless, not all sees we re
re pre s e n ted by their bis h op s. Rome, for in s tance, sent de l egates to re present the Pop e.
Trad i ti ons differ as to the number of bis h ops who ac t u ally at te nded. The one most commonly acce p t-
ed is 318. Apparently all par ts of the empire we re re pre s e n ted, inc lud ing Pe rsia. Ho sius of Cordova
(Spa in) was the most senior bis h op present, alt h ough those from the ap o s tolic sees of Jerusalem and
A l e xandria we re the most emin e n t.
We are not sure whether the Council ac t u ally op e n ed on May 20 or June 19, 325. Accord ing to
Eu s ebius the emp e ror not only con voked the council. He pre sided, app ear ing regal in golden at tire cov-
e red with jewe l s. The emp e ror re m a in ed as honorary pre sident wh ile the bis h ops rul ed over the ac t u al
deb ate s. Qu i te ob v i ously the maj or con flict was over Arian ism. At the end of the council a cre ed wa s
rati f i ed, one which forms the an tecedent to the statement of faith usu ally call ed the Nicene Cre ed. (T h e
N i cene Cre ed which is used in worship to d ay was am e nded later and is be t ter call ed the Nice n e-
C on s tan tinople Cre ed .)
The Ecthesis or Creedal Statement of the Synod at Nicea
We be l i e ve in one God, the Father Alm i g h t y, Creator of all thin gs visible and in v isible; and in on e
L ord Jesus Chr ist, the Son of God, only begot ten of the Fat h e r, that is, of the sub s tance of the Fat h e r,
God of God, light of light, ve ry God of ve ry God, begot te n, not made, being of the same sub s tance with
the Fat h e r, by wh om all thin gs we re made in heaven and on ear t h, who for us men and for our sal vati on
came down from heave n, was incar n ate, was made man, su ffe red, rose aga in the third day, a s ce nded in to
the heavens, and He will come to jud ge the liv ing and the dead. And in the Holy Ghost. Those who say,
“T h e re was a time and He was not, and He was not before He was begot te n, and He was made of not h-
ing (He was created), or who say that He is of another hyposta sis, or of another sub s tance (t h an the
Fat h e r’s), or that the Son of God is created, that He is mutable, or subj ect to chan ge ,” The Cat h ol i c
C hurch an at h e m atiz e s.
When the bis h ops in at te nd ance si g n ed the cre ed they hop ed that mat te rs we re fin ally put to re s t. Suc h
was not the ca s e. Arian is m, which this cre ed clearly conde mns, recur red aga in and aga in. While the ot h e r
m at te rs decided at the council did not form part of the cre ed, we still possess the syno d i cal (sent to the
d i o ceses from syno d s) lette rs and the Canons of Nicea. These show that the emp e ror and the Church used
t h is event to at te mpt a settlement for a number of ve xing is sue s.
S ource: <h t t p ://www. s e wan e e.edu>
3 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Note s
1) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, 1938, p. 109: “In the Sú rat u’ l-Hayk al ,
one of the most chall e n ging works of Bahá’u’ lláh . …”
2) Shoghi Effe nd i, The Prom is ed Day is Com e, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, 1939, re v. edn. 1963, pp. 47–48: “T h e
most imp or tant of His Tabl e ts, addre s s ed to ind iv idu al sove reigns, Bahá’u’ lláh orde red to be written in the form of a
p e n tacle, symb ol izing the te mple of man … .”
3) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, 1944, pp. 101–102 .
4) Shoghi Effe nd i, The Prom is ed Day is Com e, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, 1939, re v. edn. 1963, pp. 47–48.
5) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, 1938, p. 109 –110; p. 117; pp.
138 –139; and p. 169.
6) Tran s l ati on by Anton Hadd ad, Copyright, 1900, by Bahá’ís Supply and Publ is h ing Board of Chicago, Holl is ter Brot h e rs ,
Pr in te rs and Engrave rs, Chicago.
7) Ibid
8) Ibid .
9) Ibid .
10) Zec h ar i ah 9:9.
11) Matthew 21:1–5.
12) Re l e vant pa s sages of Ezra: 5:13, 6:15, 7:8, 7:13, 7:20, 7:27, 9:9
13) Matthew 23 :37–39.
14) John 2:19 –21.
15) Re ve l ati on 21:2–27.
16) Tablet of Car m e l
17) See App e nd ix II.
18) Ibid .
19) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1944, pp. 101–102 .
20) .Z ec h ar i ah 6:12 .
21) Tran s l ati on by Anton Hadd ad, Copyright, 1900, by Bahá’ís Supply and Publ is h ing Board of Chicago, Holl is ter Brot h e rs ,
Pr in te rs and Engrave rs, Chicago.
22) John 1:1–3.
23) See App e nd ix III.
24) Ki t á b -I-A qd a s, op e n ing pa s sage.
25) The Four Vall e ys.
26) Matthew 12:31–32
27) John 10:30.
28) John 4:34.
29) John 6:44.
30) Matthew 19:16–17.
31) John 10:30.
32) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 98.
33) Bahá’u’ lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, pp. 41–44.
34) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 97–98.
35) Matthew 3:16–17.
36) Look at fo ot note 33.
37) Matthew 3:16.
38) Anton Hadd ad, p. 59.
39) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 85.
40) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 98.
41) Bahá’í Scriptures, Horace Holl e y, p. 218.
42) Anton Hadd ad, p. 16–18.
43) Anton Hadd ad, p. 4–5.
44) Anton Hadd ad, p. 52–53.
45) Anton Hadd ad, p. 53–54.
46) Anton Hadd ad, p. 54.
3 4

The Fi rm Cord of Se rv i t u d e
The Firm Cord of Servitude
by Theo Cope
T
he idea of mys ti cis m, wh at the word means, how we envisi on it, wh at exp e r i e nce the word
de s c r ibes, is unde rs tood in a myriad of mann e rs. Pe rs ons who in ve s ti gate or grasp to unde rs tand
the field or exp e r i e nce call ed “m ys ti cis m” real ize the compl e xity and his tory in vol ved. Like all
ideas, mys ti cism seems to have a strongly emoti on al comp onent that is inh e rent in its dynamic. Man y
b o oks have been written on the topic of mys ti cal exp e r i e nce from ph ilo s oph i cal, neurolo gi cal, soci olo g-
i cal, his tor i cal, psyc h olo gi cal, and of course re l i gi ous pers p ec tive s. In the direc tives offe red by
B ahá’u’ lláh, when one con side rs any unde r takin g, one needs ask the que s ti on: Is the study I am to unde r-
take one that will be be n ef i ci al to hum an i t y, or will it begin and end in mere words that cannot be
proven? To refl ect up on the study of mys ti cism implies muc h; to at te mpt to re-v isi on it in light of cur-
rent sci e n tific methodolo gies de m ands much. Of wh at value is another con fe re nce, or another view on
m ys ti cis m ?
Pe rh aps we can re s tate this que s ti on and by so doing re- orient our idea s. A “prac ti cal mys ti cis m” that
does not lead to a s ce tic liv ing is one that con t r ibutes to “an ever ad vancing civ il iz ati on .” We note that
in the early days of Islam, mys tics establ is h ed many soci al in s ti t uti ons and we re ve ry ac tive in soci al
refor m, yet later dege n e rated in to a s ce tic styl e s. So, let us ask in s tead: “Do we have the psyc h olo gi cal
to ols nece s sary to begin a re-v isi on of the ph e nomena refe r red to as mys ti cis m, and conn ect it with dail y
l i fe?” The an s wer to this must be an uncond i ti on al “Ye s!” A beginn ing re-v isi on is wh e re we will fo cu s
our at te n ti on. Re-v isi on enta ils a re-fo cu sing and a re-ideatin g, a re-fram ing and a re-t h inkin g. Vi e wed
p s yc h olo gi call y, it is inh e rently valu able to recon sider this dom a in of hum an exp e r i e nce, for hum an i t y
must emb ark more con s ci ously up on its mand ated journey towards mat ur i t y. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in forms us that
those who wish to teach the Bahá’í Faith “... must be emb o d i ed spirit, (and) pers on i f i ed in te ll ec t” as we ll
as “incar n ate light and pers on i f i ed spir i t.”1 Mys ti cism has here tofore been con side red the dom a in of a
fe w, or the re sult of a s ce tic prac ti ces, or def in ed by encoun ter with God, or Nat ure. The permutati on s
up on this theme are var i ed. We are now given to know that all of us are to be and live as emb o d i ed spir-
it and incar n ate light; this is an emb o d i ed approach to mys ti cis m, con t rary to the dom in ant manner of
e xpre s si on of exp e r i e nce that has often been forged in the crucible of a s ce tic and mon a s tic prac ti ce s.
T h is work is an in t ro duc tory pi ece, to present some ve ry basic ideas offe red by the late Sw iss psy-
c h olo gist, Carl Jung (1875 –1961), that may enable us to approach an unde rs tand ing of mys ti cal ideas from
a psyc h olo gi cal view, wh ile not lim i ting our unde rs tand ing to psyc h olo gy. It is in te nded to serve as a cat-
al yst, a peti ti on in a sense, for ot h e rs to join a serious dialo g ue of the value of Jun g’s ideas for approac h-
ing a spir i t u al psyc h olo gy.
Ideas ab out mys ti cis m, it is pur p or ted, have been con s t ra in ed by their his tor i cal ance s tors. Eve ry
t h ought or idea has at tac h ed to it a his tory, a ge n ealo gy. When one in ve s ti gates the in flue nces of these
ge n ealo gies in the thought and writin gs of anot h e r, it is easy to in te r pret these writin gs accord ing to the
known ge n ealo gies of the in ve s ti gator. If one knows Sufi thought in de p t h, Chr is ti an mys ti cal thou g h t ,
or Buddh ist, Chán (Z e n), Hindu, or Jewis h, etc., it is likely that one will read pa s sages in the Bahá’í
Wr i tin gs and see in them views that in some cases clarifies some misunde rs tand in gs (such as un i on with
God, fan á’ ), and in ot h e rs verify the posi ti ons ar ti cul ated before. What would happen if we rad i cally re-
v isi on these ideas in light of psyc h olo gi cal approac h e s? Would we thereby som e h ow de n i g rate wh at mys-
ti cism is ab out? Would we be reducing mys ti cal exp e r i e nce to psyc h olo gi cal exp e r i e nce s? Would it be an
a ffront to the cheris h ed ideas we hold ab out mys tic exp e r i e nce? We must here assert un e qu ivo cally that
the re s p onse is “No!” All we do if we explore these mys ti cal claims in the light of psyc h olo gy is to re t ur n
3 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
3 6
these exp e r i e nces and im agin al creati ons to their proper pl aces, in the hum an psyche—the soul —as used
p s yc h olo gi call y. In this way we bring these within the realm of dail y, emb o d i ed exp e r i e nce, that is with-
in the realm of psyc h olo gy.
T h is work takes an approach from Jun gi an psyc h olo gy, the Bahá’í and Sufi teac h in gs, in the hopes of
prov id ing ideas and methods we can use to re-t h ink mys ti cism in light of the spirit of the age, as we ll
as the mand ate for an essenti al har mony of sci e nce and re l i gi on imp o s ed up on the followe rs of
B ahá’u’ lláh’s teac h in gs. It will not encompass the dom a ins of a sci e n tific de l im i tati on on the topic, and
as such will not fo cus on neurobi olo gi cal de te r m in an ts, nor the ge n e tic, nor bi o c h e m i cal con side rati on s.
T h is being sa id, an ac knowl ed gement is made ab out the value of these approaches, yet the need to cre-
ate a dialo g ue with the work of Carl Jung and his succe s s ors is one thrust of this work. Howe ve r, an y
s ci e n tific approach which at te mp ts to reduce “m ys tic exp e r i e nce” to a bi olo gi cal found ati on must be seen
as that: reduc ti on is tic. Like w ise, to reduce these exp e r i e nces to “m e rely psyc h olo gi cal ,” with the cur re n t
unde rs tand ing of psyc h olo gy, is reduc ti on is tic. Both of these approaches will be avoided in this work.
The hum an reality is far too complex to ente r ta in any noti ons of reduc ti on is m .
The concept of “m ys tic exp e r i e nce” needs some imm ed i ate clar i f i cati on, and an op e rati on al def in i ti on
for our pur p o s e s. This def in i ti on will be seen to have lim i ts imp o s ed up on it, and may be con t rove rsi al
t h e reb y. Yet, to pl ace a lim i tati on up on the in te r pre tati on of exp e r i e nce is not unu su al, in fact it is the
only way hum anity has ava il able to unde rs tand. This lim i ting by def in ing is akin to wh at the Cheshire
Cat expresses in A l i ce in Wonde rl and: a word means exactly wh at I say it mean s. Each ind iv idu al’s exp e-
r i e nce is lim i ted by the par ti cul ar world-v i e w, that is, the We ltan s c h auun g one espou s e s. Thus, for on e
who adh e res to a strictly Jun gi an view of mys tic exp e r i e nce, one may in te r pret such an exp e r i e nce a s
or i gin ating in the coll ec tive uncon s ci ous and conc lude that it is the exp e r i e nce of an arc h e t y pal com-
pl e x. On the other hand, for one who is lim i ted by a strictly Su f is tic view, or any We s tern or Ea s te r n
t h eis tic view, it is likely that such in te r pre tati on will be of “un i on with God,” “un i on with the Logo s ,”
“e xis te n ti al mon is m,” “un i on with the Self” wh e re “my At m an is Brahm an,” etc. There are many diffe r-
ent ways this can be viewed and has been done so by many aut h ors in this field. Me n ti on is made here
to highlight how on e’s view colors on e’s unde rs tand ing of exp e r i e nce. It “fram e s” it, so to speak.
E xp e r i e nce is one thin g, in te r pre tati on of it is qu i te anot h e r. This seems to be the a s s e r ti on of
B ahá’u’ lláh in the S e ven Vall e ys as we ll when He expre s s e s: “...t h at all the var i ati ons which the way fare r
in the stages of his journey be h oldeth in the realms of bein g, pro ce ed from his own visi on .”2
The limit we shall pl ace up on “m ys tic exp e r i e nce” in this cur rent work goes be yond these at ti t udes and
con side rati on of We ltan s c h auun ge n. The de par t ure point we shall emb race finds its ground ing in the
B ahá’í Wr i tin gs:
For wh ats o e ver can be conceived by man is a reality that hath lim i tati ons and is not unl im i ted ;
it is circum s c r ibed, not all- e mb racin g. It can be compre h e nded by man, and is con t roll ed by
h im. Sim il arly it is ce r ta in that all hum an conce p ti ons are con tin gent, not ab s olute; that they
h ave a mental exis te nce, not a mate r i al on e. Moreove r, diffe re n ti ati on of stages in the con tin-
gent world is an ob s tacle to unde rs tand in g. How then can the con tin gent conceive the Real i t y
of the ab s olute? As pre v i ously menti on ed, diffe re n ti ati on of stages in the con tin gent pl ane is an
ob s tacle to unde rs tand in g.3
O Salm an! All that the sages and mys tics have sa id or written have never exce eded, nor can they
e ver hope to exce ed, the lim i tati ons to which man’s fin i te mind hath been strictly subj ec ted. To
wh ate ver hei g h ts the mind of the most exalted of men may soar, howe ver great the de p t hs wh i c h
the de tac h ed and unde rs tand ing heart can penetrate, such mind and heart can never tran s ce nd
t h at which is the creat ure of their own conce p ti ons and the pro duct of their own thou g h ts. The
m ed i tati ons of the profoundest thinke r, the de voti ons of the holiest of sa in ts, the highest
e xpre s si ons of pra ise from either hum an pen or ton g ue, are but a refl ec ti on of that which hat h
been created within themselves, through the re ve l ati on of the Lord, their God. Whoever pon-
de reth this truth in his heart will read ily admit that there are ce r ta in lim i ts which no hum an
being can possibly tran sg re s s.4

The Fi rm Cord of Se rv i t u d e
These two pa s sages will serve as the fo cal poin ts of our med i tati on. Inde ed, this will be a med i tati on,
for we pursue it in the te mple hum il i t y, seeking to re-t h ink wh at mys ti cism refe rs to.
Let us def ine mys ti cis m, then, as an exp e r i e nce of ec s ta s y, wh e re ec s tasy follows its lin g u is tic ro ots:
“to stand outside of.” Mys tic exp e r i e nce has trad i ti on ally been def in ed as un i on with God, with Nat ure ,
or with the higher Self in the ind iv idu al. For our purposes we shall refer to it as a manner of un i on, the
e mb o d iment of spir i t u al qu al i ties and at t r ibute s. Thus mys ti cism becomes “an emb o d i ed approach to life
t h at exp e r i e nces the profound mys te ry of creati on, and the symb olic man i fe s tati ons of the psyche, the
s oul, and perceives and lives with the be l i ef that all exis te nce is a refl ec ti on of the Unknowable Essence
we call God.” This def in i ti on compels one to “s tand outside” the nor m al views of daily mund ane and bi o-
lo gi cally or i e n ted life. In this def in i ti on, it is the perce p ti on and its concom i tant effec ts up on life s t yl e
t h at becomes the fo cu s.
T h is paper proposes that un til the ad vent of psyc h olo gi cal approaches to hum an exp e r i e nce, wh at has
h e re tofore been in te r pre ted to be mys tic un i on with the Dei t y, or Brahm an, is, in fact, a profound real-
iz ati on of the ind iv idu al div ine Self, and a pro g re s sive emb o d iment of the charac te r is tics of this Self.
T h is prop o sal is based up on many pa s sages from the Bahá’í Wr i tin gs. Be sides those ci ted ab ove, we find :
In this conn ec ti on, He Who is the ete r n al Kin g — m ay the souls of all that dwe ll within the mys-
tic Tabe r n acle be a sac r i f i ce un to Him — h ath spoken: ‘He hath known God who hath known him-
s e l f.’
... From that which hath been sa id it becometh evident that all thin gs, in their inmost real i t y, te s-
tify to the re ve l ati on of the names and at t r ibutes of God within them. Each accord ing to its
capaci t y, ind i cate t h, and is expre s sive of, the knowl ed ge of God.5
In one of His Tabl e ts, Bahá’u’ lláh in forms us that, “...the pr im ary in tent of know ing the self in this
s tati on is the knowl ed ge of the Self of God in eve ry era and age. For the pre- e xis tent essence and the
o cean of reality is exalted ab ove the knowl ed ge of all else but Him. Therefore, the in sight at ta in ed by
all the mys tics ac t u ally hath refe re nce to their in sight in to the Man i fe s tati ons of His Cau s e.”6
I n te rwoven in to the core of our bein g, our psyche, is wh at Jung call ed the “God arc h e t y p e.”
The heritage of this “He hath known God who hath known him s e l f” is we ll known in Chr is ti an and
I s l amic circles, and we find it menti on ed first in the works of “Clement of Alexandria [wh o] says in the
Paed ago g u s (III, 1): ‘T h e refore, as it seems, it is the greatest of all dis ci pl ines to know on e s e l f; for wh e n
a man knows him s e l f, he knows God.”
7 Clement lived from 150–215 A.D. Many have misunde rs tood Jun g
to be reduc ti on is tic or a metaph ysi cal thinker by prop o sing this concept, ove rlo oking that he was al ways
s p eaking as a psyc h olo gist, not a metaph ysi ci an. He a s s e r ted, in a manner that app ears to be har mon i ou s
with comm e n ts by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, “I am therefore of the opin i on that, in ge n e ral, psychic energy or libido
c reates the God-im age by making use of arc h e t y pal pat terns, and that man in con s e que nce worships the
p s ychic force ac tive within him as som e t h ing div in e. We thus ar r ive at the obj ec ti on able conc lu si on that ,
from the psyc h olo gi cal point of view, the God-im age is a real but subj ec tive ph e nom e non .”
8 Many find
it obj ec ti on able that Jung could assert such a thin g, and he even ac knowl ed ged this since it flies in the
face of our lon g- c h e r is h ed a s sump ti on that we could exp e r i e nce God in the de p t hs of our bein g. It is
imp or tant to note that Jung was speaking psyc h olo gi call y, not metaph ysi call y. Jung knew the con t ro-
ve rsy that would erupt when he or an yone a s s e r ted that our im age or exp e r i e nce of “G o d” is created by
p s ychic energy. In part this is because our noti ons of the psyche are far too lim i ted, and even “s oul” is
a pers on al con s t r uc t. Let’s compare this psyc h olo gi cal view with a pa s sage from the Ma s te r:
Accord ingly all these at t r ibutes, names, pra ises and eulo gies apply to the Places of
Man i fe s tati on; and all that we im agine and suppose be side them is mere im agin ati on, for we
h ave no means of compre h e nd ing that which is in v isible and in acce s sibl e. This is why it is sa id :
‘A ll that you have dis tin g u is h ed through the illu si on of your im agin ati on in your subtle mental
im ages is but a creati on like un to yours e l f, and re t urns to you .’
It is clear that if we wish to im agine the Reality of Div in i t y, this im agin ati on is the sur round-
3 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
ed, and we are the sur round ing one; and it is sure that the one who sur rounds is greater than the
sur rounded. From this it is ce r ta in and evident that if we im agine a Div ine Reality outside of
the Holy Man i fe s tati ons, it is pure im agin ati on, for there is no way to approach the Reality of
Div inity which is not cut off to us, and all that we im agine is mere supp o si ti on .
T h e refore, refl ect that diffe rent peoples of the world are re vol v ing around im agin ati ons and are
wors h i p e rs of the idols of thou g h ts and conj ec t ure s. They are not aware of this; they con side r
t h eir im agin ati ons to be the Reality which is withdrawn from all compre h e n si on and pur i f i ed
from all de s c r i p ti on s. They regard themselves as the people of Unity, and the ot h e rs as wor-
s h i p e rs of idols; but idols at least have a min e ral exis te nce, wh ile the idols of thou g h ts and the
im agin ati ons of man are but fancies; they have not even min e ral exis te nce. ‘Take heed ye wh o
are endued with dis ce r nm e n t.’
We here learn as we ll that the soul creates “subtle mental im age s” and that wh ate ver we may im agin e ,
or im agine that we exp e r i e nce, be yond the Man i fe s tati ons, is “pure im agin ati on .” To one ve rs ed in Shi’i te
I s l amic (N eoP l aton i c) ph ilo s ophy of the Ishra qi stra in, and has a sense of the de ve lopment of “im agin a-
ti on / kh ayal ,” im agin ati on as creative is exalted as the faculty of mys tic knowl ed ge par exce ll e nce. In
B ahá’í thought, howe ve r, we note a cauti ous at ti t ude towards these im agin al creati on s. We note this a s
we ll in Bahá’u’ lláh’s “C omm e n tary on ‘He who knows himself knows his Lord’”: “T h e refore, the in si g h t
at ta in ed by all the mys tics ac t u ally hath refe re nce to their in sight in to the Man i fe s tati ons of His
Cau s e.”10 These names and at t r ibutes, those “t h at we recount of the Div ine Essence, ...h ave de r ived from
the exis te nce and ob s e rvati on of bein gs, and it is not that we have compre h e nded the essence and per-
fec ti on of God.”11 In this pa s sage we are given to see that even these names and at t r ibutes are our cate-
gories, de r ived from our ob s e rvati on of created bein gs, at t r ibuted to the cosmic orde r; psyc h olo gi call y
we could say that they are proj ec ted in to the co s mos, or perceived by the hum an psyc h e.
The power of the soul, the psyche, to create has often been ove rlo oked in works on mys ti cism in the
We s t. In Islamic mys ti cis m, it has been often a ce n t ral conce r n, especi ally in the Ishra qi trad i ti on wh e re
im agin ati on became “im agin al ,” under the exege tic work of He nry Corbin. Yet, to assert in any mys ti-
cal heritage that the soul creates a “God arc h e t y p e” is an athema; as much an a ffront as it is to or t h o dox
re l i gi ous views that the soul can exp e r i e nce un i on with God. In We s tern mys ti cal trad i ti ons, it is cate-
gor i cally a s s e r ted that the soul exp e r i e nces some sort of un i on with God. This is in part de te r m in ed and
cond i ti on ed by the NeoP l atonic or mon is tic heritage and a s s e r ti on that “like can be known and exp e r i-
e nced by like” of Plotinu s. Thus, since the hum an reality is like that of God, we can have such an exp e-
r i e nce. But perh aps it is im agin ati on ...but wh at a power im agin ati on is! Let us not belittle it.
T h e re exist many works on im agin ati on, and in the NeoP l atonic trad i ti on im agin ati on is lauded as a
faculty of immense pote n ti al i t y. In Islam beginn ing with Av i ce nna, de ve lop ed by succe s sive Islam i c
ph ilo s oph e rs, cultivated by Suhrawardi and the Ishra qi trad i ti on, and bear ing fruit in many minds and
h ear ts, notably Ibn ‘A rabi, Mulla Íadra, and eve n t u ally S haykh A˙m ad al-A˙ sa’í, im agin ati on tran s ce nd s
the psyc h olo gi cal heritage prop o s ed by Aris totle in D e A n im a, and pro g resses in to on tolo gy in the noti on
of ‘al am al-m i t h al, the “world of sim il i t ude s/e xe mpl ars” also refe r red to as ‘al am al-kh ayal, the “world of
im agin ati on,” or hur qal ya. This is we ll known in Ishara qi mys ti cal thought, de l in eated by Faz lur
Rahm an, He nry Corbin, and many other comm e n tators.
W h at is not we ll known is how this concept becomes “We s te r n iz ed” and re t ur n ed to its im agin al-p s y-
c h olo gi cal heritage in the heart of James Hillm an and his brand of arc h e t y pal psyc h olo gy. In many of
H illm an’s works, he addresses the noti on of the im agin al ego, seeking to espouse an approach to psy-
c h olo gy that enl ivens it with arc h e t y pal pers on i f i cati on s. Thus we find him expre s sing the cur re n t
unde rs tand ing of psyc h olo gy towards the psyche, adop ting its habi t u al du al ism ab out “real i t y”:
First, the word means the totality of exis ting mate r i al obj ec ts or the sum of cond i ti ons of the exte r-
n al world. Reality is public, obj ec tive, soci al, and usu ally ph ysi cal. Second there is a psychic real i t y, not
e xte nded in space, the realm of pr ivate exp e r i e nce that is in te r i or, wis h ful, im agin ati on al. Hav ing div id-
ed psychic reality from hard or exte r n al real i t y, psyc h olo gy elab orates var i ous theories to conn ect the two
orde rs to ge t h e r, since the div isi on is wor r is ome inde ed. It means that psychic reality is conceived to be
3 8

The Fi rm Cord of Se rv i t u d e
n either public, obj ec tive, nor ph ysi cal, wh ile exte r n al real i t y, the sum of exis ting mate r i al obj ec ts and
cond i ti ons, is conceived to be ut te rly de void of soul. As the soul is without world, so the world is with-
out soul .
To pursue mys ti cism in an is ol ated environment, in an a s ce tic mil i eu, serves to separate this ec s tati c
l iv ing with a soci ally lived exis te nce. Inte r i or exp e r i e nce; this is wh at mys ti cism has been thought to be
ab out. But it is more than this, it is ab out life as lived in the exte r i or world and a means of real izin g
t h at exte r i or and in te r i or are illu s ory conce p ts to the psyc h e. The psyche exp e r i e nces, using outer and
inner faculties and pro ce s s e s. An emb o d i ed mys ti cis m, a re t urn of soul to the world, and our hear ts to
the world of soul, is Hillm an’s pa s si on ate que s t. He would not call it mys ti cis m, howe ve r, for it is psy-
c h olo gy to him. Ps yc h olo gy, as a “s ci e nce of the soul”, wh e re soul is tran s l ated from the Greek p s yc h e, is
H illm an’s jour n e y, and was that of Jun g. While Jung approac h ed psyc h olo gy from a tran s-n ati on al ,
t ran s- cult ural and tran s-h is tor i cal stance, Hillm an does al s o, but finds his ro ots most de e ply nour is h ed
by Corbin’s hermeneutics of Sufi thought, as we ll as Greek mytholo gy. Our world is ill because we have
lost our ro ots. As Shoghi Effe ndi re m arked: we cannot separate the hum an heart from the environm e n t
around it.
13 When we begin to con te mpl ate how it is that mys ti cism is a prac ti cal endeavor, to be emb o d-
i ed and soci al iz ed through ac ti on bal anced with con te mpl ati on, then we strip it of its a s ce tic heritage
and re t urn soul to the world by in fu sing the world with new ideas ab out soul. In so doin g, we are enabl ed
to ove rcome the concept of inner and outer exp e r i e nce and real ize most profoundly that it is the soul
t h at exp e r i e nce s. If our thou g h ts are tur n ed towards the body and mate r i al real i t y, or if they are tur n ed
towards the hei g h ts of spir i t u al con te mpl ati on, the at te n ti on diffe rs, but it is the soul that exp e r i e nce s
in both. Inner and outer become adj ec tival terms de s c r ibing the fo cus of con s ci ous at te n ti on .
None of this is new, none of it un ique. The problem with a psyc h olo gi cal approach to mys ti cism has
been due to its being pr im ar ily a “s ci e nce without soul ,” a psyc h oph ysi olo gy that exam ines the minuti-
ae of ph ysi olo gi cal, neurolo gi cal, co g n i tive, be h av i or is tic expre s si ons of the psyc h e. And most often the
p s yche is conceived to be a mere epi ph e nom e non of bra in func ti on in g. This is all ve ry unde rs tand abl e
given psyc h olo gy’s young heritage and being comp e ll ed in to an empir i cal stance by the cur re n ts of the
tim e. But the cur re n ts have chan ged, and it is no coincide nce that psyc h olo gy began burgeon ing with the
Ad vent of the Re ve l ati on of the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh .
It is our idea s ab out mys ti cism that are being call ed in to que s ti on, that need re-v isi on in g. Impl i ed in
t h is is the power of the idea, and an yone who knows Greek ph ilo s oph i cal heritage knows the si g n i f i cance
of the Ideas in Plato, the Eido s. Ideas exist before our visi on in g, are wh at we see with, how we see, and
wh at we see. If we chan ge our ideas ab out som e t h in g, we chan ge not only how we see, but also wh at we
can see. There is, howe ve r, no firm pro of of the exis te nce of these Platonic Ideas, and even Aris totle is
known to have que s ti on ed their on tolo gi cal exis te nce. Let an example su ff i ce: oppre s si on. This is an idea
we ob s e rve with. We see hum an in te rac ti ons and people striv ing to dis cern truth. In some in te rac ti on s
we see eve n ts, and these eve n ts we def ine as oppre s sive. Eve n ts are eve n ts, the idea of oppre s si on give s
us a diffe rent in te r pre tati on of the eve n t. As Bahá’u’ lláh says, “W h at ‘oppre s si on’ is more grievous than
t h at a soul seeking the trut h, and wis h ing to at ta in un to the knowl ed ge of God, should know not wh e re
to go for it and from wh om to seek it? ”14 Being un able to find truth is not often con side red as oppre s-
sive, but we are given to know that it is a grievous oppre s si on. Oppre s si on is first an idea, it enables us
to see life’s eve n ts diffe re n t l y; when we see an idea an e w, we see with new ideas and see new real i ties that
our old ideas could not emb race.
Mys ti cism is such an idea. In the Bahá’í cor pus, the noti on of wah∂ at al-w ujúd is compl e x, and var i e s
with the con te xt. Thus an idea supp or ting a mon is tic view, in the “realm of the at t r ibute s” is pre s e n ted ,
wh ile it is clear that any idea of exis te n ti al mon is m, and un i on with the Essence of God, as has be e n
a s s e r ted by many mys tics, is not supp or ted. The compl e xity of the subj ect and the length of this ar ti c l e
does not permit a fuller dis cu s si on. In the S e ven Vall e ys we learn that in the “Valley of Tr ue Poverty and
Ab s olute Not h in g n e s s” “...the way farer leaveth be h ind him the stages of the ‘oneness of Being and
Man i fe s tati on’ and reacheth a oneness that is sanc ti f i ed ab ove these two stati on s.”15 Mo ojan Mom e n
w rote ab out such a dichotomy in an ar ticle “Re l ativ ism: A Basis for Bahá’í Me taph ysi c s ,” but his view
was not psyc h olo gi cal16 W h at we are de l in eating here is. As suc h, in ke e ping with the de m ands of the
3 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
p s yche (and re m e mber that psyche is used as soul, but in its psyc h olo gi cal sense), we are seeking exp e r i-
e nces and ways of unde rs tand ing exp e r i e nce s. Ps yche exis ts for exp e r i e nces, and these som e times are not
in the hei g h ts of ec s ta s y, but the vall e ys; there are seve n, and four more. Spirit pulls psyche up toward s
the dis e mb o d i ed hei g h ts of its dom a in, seeking its refl ec ti on in the fiery Sun; psyche yearns to wallow
in the wate rs, seeking its refl ec ti on in wh at is be low; and we are both. Ps yche is in tim ately conn ec ted
with the body and earth. The Man i fe s tati on brin gs teac h in gs and ideas that a s sist the spirit in tran s-
for m ing the psyche from its prop e n sity to stay in the “de p t hs” to a com fort in the “hei g h ts.” Let us not
con s t r ue this lite rall y.
If we strip mys ti cism of its exc lu sive metaph ysi cal ove r tones, and its abstruse on tolo gi cal and epis te-
molo gi cal a s s e r ti ons, we are left with a diffe rent sort of mys te ry. And inde ed, “m ys te ry minded” mys ti-
cism is acce s sible to us all, illum in ating our hear ts and minds with a co s mos that is full of the Light of
G lory and the Glory of God. In this mys te ry we dis cern that all exis te nce is a refl ec ti on of this Li g h t ,
t h at each a s p ect of creati on is a “si g n”; eve ry Name of God por te nds mys teries that ge n e rate, su s ta in and
an im ate creati on .
17 The soul is such a si g n .
18 The lo gos of the soul, psyc h olo gy, lost its way on the pat h
of explor ing psyche because it to ok psyche to be the mind, since the “s ci e nce of mental pro ce s s e s” wa s
more am e n able to its de ve lopm e n tal mil i eu than a sci e nce of the soul. We can lo ok to Gal il eo as on e
s ource of the beginn in gs of this loss, and his mat h e m atiz ati on of nat ure that re ve rbe rated throu g h out
the West and cap tivated the minds of man y; though these we re mostly men. Women likely would have
n e ver exc luded the body and world. Descar tes, Locke, Mill, Hum e. These names have a his tory and
impac ted his tory in a way that perpetuated the empir i cal explorati on of the world, that fo s te red the div i-
si on be tween psyche and ph ysics and comp e ll ed psyc h olo gy to become psyc h oph ysi c s.
19 S oul becam e
reduced, min im iz ed, exil ed; a mere epi ph e nom e non of the mac h ine un ive rs e. Our ideas became more
conc re tely div ided be tween inner and outer real i t y; we have yet to fully learn that “the world of exis te nce
is a single world, alt h ough its stati ons are var i ous and dis tinc t.”
20 S oul also became min im iz ed thorou g h
time and the burgeon ing de ve lopment of ind iv idu al ego aware n e s s: m y s oul, and your s oul; possessive ,
p e rs on al, a pauper in the co s mo s. No lon ger a micro cosm within the mac ro cosm eve n .
T h is has chan ged, and qu an t um ideas have in s ti gated a re voluti on on many fron ts. We know now of
multive rses and many Big Ban gs, not just one an y more. We know that on the qu an t um level mat ter is
s pirit, that the ph ysi cal un ive rse is in con tinu al flux, com ing in to and going out of exis te nce; the illu-
si on is that it is a stable conc re te exis te nce. But soul, ever patient with hum an foll y, bides its tim e. It
e xis ts as it al ways has, it is our ideas that have gone a s t ray. Yet, this is part of soul’s un fold in g, let us
not forget this. A song once sang “You don’t know wh at you have till it’s gon e ,” and our loss of soul is
sadly noti ced in our lives; its loss has promp ted us to approach it in new ways. It is not soul that wa s
lost, but our awareness and emb o d i ed acce p tance of it.
Ps yc h olo gy, from the heart and find in gs of Carl Jun g, proffe rs to us a manner of approac h ing psyc h e
aga in, but in a more mat ure mann e r; and in a manner that imbues it with mys te ry. The mys te ry that Jun g
de l in eated is succinctly cap t ured in two dom in ant psyc h olo gi cal at ti t ude types, the ext ravert and the
in t rove r t. Br i efl y, the ext ravert is charac te r iz ed by bein g: obj ect or i e n ted; nom in al is tic; prone to sensa-
ti on and a ffec tiv i t y; empathic; conc re te; fo cu s ed on the ind iv idu al element— par ti cul ars; plural is ti c ;
e mpir i cally guided; “rom an ti c .” The in t rovert is charac te r iz ed by being idea or i e n ted; real is tic; lo gi cal ;
ideal is tic; fo cu s ed on ideas and sim il ar i ti e s— un ive rsals; mon is tic; do g m atic; “c l a s si c .”21 No one exis ts a s
a “pure” type, but there is fre quently one type that dom in ate s. If we use these two types to in ve s ti gate
m any of the claims of mys tics of all ages we will imm ed i ately noti ce why it is that there has exis ted the
p e rsis te nce of such deb ates and haran g ues as have charac te r iz ed most such a s s e r ti ons of mys tic un i on
with God.
On the one hand, we know of the wah∂ at al-w ujúd and of wah∂ at a s h-s hudúd. Mo ojan Momen expre s s-
es it thu s l y: “T h is is the con t rove rsy be tween two posi ti ons conce r n ing the nat ure of the re l ati on s h i p
be tween God and His creati on. These two posi ti ons exis ted from the earliest days of Islam and eve n t u-
ally became known as Wah∂ at al-Wujúd (e xis te n ti al un i t y, oneness of bein g) and Wah∂ at a s h-S huhúd
(unity in app earance onl y). The former was the posi ti on taken by the followe rs of Ibn al-‘A rabí (d. 638
A . H . /1240) and was more common among those inc l in ed towards Su f ism and mys ti cal ph ilo s oph y. The
4 0

The Fi rm Cord of Se rv i t u d e
l at ter was the posi ti on commonly taken by jur is ts and was given its name by Shaykh A˙m ad Sirh indí (971
A . H . /1563–1034 A.H.—1034/1624–5) in the 17th ce n t ury.”
22 The former sees and in te r pre ts mys tic exp e-
r i e nce and theo s oph i cal specul ative thought in an in t rove r ted mann e r, and the lat ter in an ext rave r ted
on e. Like w ise, we note that there exis ts a deb ate as to the on tolo gi cal reality of the “realm” of ‘al am- al-
m i t h al, with the followe rs of Ibn ‘A rabí seeing it as an on tolo gi cally exis tent realm, wh ile Sirh indí and
h is followe rs viewed it as a realm of “s e ein g” not bein g.
23 With these two typolo gies, the fe lt need for
arg um e n tati on ab out who is “cor rec t” is unde r m in ed. It is even as Bahá’u’ lláh expresses in many Tabl e ts ,
notably the “Tablet of the Uncomp ounded Real i t y,” as we ll as “C omm e n tary on a Ve rse of Rumi (for
Salm an),” that both are right, and both are wron g. This is the posi ti on taken by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as we ll in
H is “C omm e n tary on the Islamic Trad i ti on: I was a Hidden Trea sure” wh e re He expre s s e s:
T hus some of the mys tic knowe rs who have a s ce nded to the Heaven of mean in gs have reco g n is ed
forms, real i ties and pote n ti al i ties as pre- e xis tent and unor i gin ated. And some of those in for m ed
of the path of knowl ed ge and wis dom con sider qu idd i ties and real i ties to be or i gin ated and cre-
ated. And this servant has given the exp o si ti ons and evide nces of both par ties in the cleare s t
p o s sible manner in this treatis e. But to this servant all these exp o si ti ons and que s ti ons, stati on s
and states are compl e te in their own stati on without defect or fl aw. For alt h ough the obj ec t
being viewed is the same, nevertheless the viewpoin ts and stati ons of these mys tic knowe rs is
d i ffe re n t. Each viewpoint, with re s p ect to the pers on who is in that stati on is perfect and com-
pl e te. Know thou, O lover of the All- G lor i ous Beaut y, that diffe re nces be tween the state m e n ts of
the sa in ts is on account of diffe re nces in the efful ge nces of the Names of the Ab s olute and var i-
ati ons in Their pl aces of man i fe s tati on .
T h is theme of viewpoin ts being de p e ndent up on the way farer is stated in the S e ven Vall e ys as we ll ,
and is wh at we find in our op e n ing pa s sages of med i tati on. Thus it can be seen how Jung enables us to
d is cern this clearly as an essenti al comp onent of on e’s psyc h olo gi cal makeup. A reco g n i ti on of these
t y p olo gies permits us to henceforth dispense with any such arg um e n tati ons and haran g ues, and in s tead
begin to approach the profound mys te ry of the God-im age created in the soul, by the soul, and in accor-
d ance with ind iv idu al psyc h olo gi cal or i e n tati on s. This is a ve ry simpl i f i ed pre s e n tati on of this compl e x
is sue from a psyc h olo gi cal approac h, given briefly here to ind i cate one manner of seeing this lengthy his-
tor i cal deb ate. As an in t ro duc tory work, we cannot de l ve de e p e r.
I nde ed, the mys te ry of the soul’s creati ons is wh at mys ti cism is ab out. Since we have been guided by
B ahá’í teac h in gs to accept humbly and de e ply the lim i tati ons imp o s ed up on us as created real i ties, lim i-
tati ons that free us in mann e rs that we are only beginn ing to unde rs tand, perh aps it is time that we take
s e r i ously the fact that the soul creates and that one can “n e ver tran s ce nd that which is the creat ure of
t h eir own conce p ti ons and the pro duct of their own thou g h ts....” This is a profound mys te ry, worthy of
our pursuit and emb o d im e n t. The Gu ard i an charac te r iz ed the pote n ti al i ties thu s l y: “Who can visu al iz e
the realms which the hum an spirit, vital iz ed by the out p our ing light of Bah a’u’ ll ah, shin ing in the pl e n-
i t ude of its glory, will dis cove r? ”25 These realms lay enfolded within us, at te s ted by Bahá’u’ lláh’s a ff ir-
m ati on, “S ome have de s c r ibed him as the ‘lesser world ,’ wh e n, in real i t y, he should be regarded as the
‘g reater world .’ The pote n ti al i ties inh e rent in the stati on of man, the full mea sure of his de s tiny on ear t h,
the inn ate exce ll e nce of his real i t y, must all be man i fe s ted in this prom is ed Day of God.”26 A nd
Like w ise, refl ect up on the perfec ti on of man’s creati on, and that all these pl anes and states are
folded up and hidden away within him. Dost thou rec kon thyself only a puny form When with-
in thee the un ive rse is folded ?27
We know that full knowl ed ge of the Self, ind iv idu ally speakin g, is imp o s sible, and it is no great jump
to real ize the imp o s sibility of know ing the Self of God, the Man i fe s tati on, or the “n ames and at t r ibut-
e s.” If we persist, as witnessed in all pre v i ous re l i gi ous dis p e n sati ons, with arg um e n tati ons ab out the
“cor rec t” unde rs tand ing of the re l ati onship with God to creati on, we not only fa il to unde rs tand the clear
admon i ti ons of the Fa i t h, but also fa il to grasp the power of the soul. On the for m e r, we come to lear n
in Bahá’í thought that all we can even refer to refe rs to the Man i fe s tati ons of God, and not to the
4 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
U nknowable Essence. This is expre s s ed clearly in the Tabl e ts menti on ed ab ove, as we ll as in S om e
A n s we red Que s ti on s, a pa s sage ci ted pre v i ously al s o. Yet, even this, we are given to compre h e nd, is
refl ec ted in our bein g.
But we ask God to ac qu a int the people with their own selves, so that they might avoid tre s-
pa s sing be yond their bounds and their stati on, and might speak of God by means of this mo s t
g reat menti on and might a id God with all their limbs and membe rs. Thus might they becom e
s tand ards stream ing be tween the heavens and the earth. Dwe ll, O people, in the shadow of God,
then pers e ve re in your seats of honor by means of the mys te r i ous peace of God and his sere n e
d i g n i t y. Hold firm to the cord of serv i t ude.
The stati on of the Man i fe s tati on is be yond our capability to fat h om, thus we need to fo cus on the
hum an psyche and heart, therein seeing these refl ec ti on s. We need to compre h e nd and embody the impl i-
cati ons of clearly de m arcated stati ons in exis te nce. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá menti ons three such stati ons, refe r r in g
to them as cond i ti ons, as being lim i ted to “s e rv i t ude, prophethood and Dei t y”29 The clear admon i ti on s
e nj oin ing us to refra in from such deb ates is expre s s ed in many pl aces, and we note in the “C omm e n tary
on a Ve rse of Rum i” Bahá’u’ lláh statin g:
But, Salm an, the pen of the All-Me rci ful says, ‘To d ay, those who a ff irm and those who de n y
these ut te rances are on the same leve l .’ For the sun of reality is itself re s pl e ndent and is shin in g
from the hor iz on of the heave n s. All those who busy themselves with such say in gs are, of cours e ,
de pr ived of mys ti cal in sight in to the beauty of the Compa s si on ate. The pr ime time for in ve s ti-
gating illu si ons is the time when no div ine guid ance is pre s e n t. To d ay is the spr in g time of
un veil ing and at ta inm e n t. Roam, O people, in the garden of re vealment and dis c lo sure, and for-
sake illu si on s. Thus are you comm anded by the pen of God, the Gu ard i an, the Ete r n al. All
b ranches of knowl ed ge we re set forth only for the sake of establ is h ing that which is val id. Now,
pra ise be to God that the sun of the obj ect of knowl ed ge has daw n ed ab ove the hor iz on of the
s ky of ete r n i t y, and the mo on of val idity is shin ing in the heavens of comm and. Sanc tify your
h eart from all allu si ons and gaze with your outward eyes toward the days tar of mean in gs in the
h oly and spir i t u al fir m am e n t. Note we ll His efful ge nce of names and at t r ibutes in wh at is ot h e r
t h an He, so that you might at ta in to all knowl ed ge, and to its or i gin, mine, and we ll s pr in g.30
T h is is also wh at we find in His “Tablet of the Uncomp ounded Real i t y,” and the Ma s te r’s
“C omm e n tary.” “Hold firm to the cord of serv i t ude ,” impels us and emb oldens us to explore the mys te ry
of the soul .
By taking a psyc h olo gi cal pers p ec tive, that adumb rated by Carl Jung and his “p s yc h olo gy with the psy-
c h e ,” we are enabl ed to begin an approach to the profound mys te ry of the soul and our re l ati onship to
our Self, and the mys te r i ous workin gs of creative libid in al energi e s.31 In so doin g, we shall begin an
e xplorati on as promoted by the Bahá’í Wr i tin gs, and accord ing to the stati on of being hum an, that of
s e rv i t ude. This explorati on will be to the man i fe s tati ons and creati ons of the psyche, the soul, and the
m ys te ry of such a real i t y. In this way, we may come to grasp one in tent be h ind this inj unc ti on: “To tran s-
g ress the lim i ts of on e’s own rank and stati on is, in no wise, permis sibl e. The in tegrity of eve ry rank and
s tati on must needs be pre s e rved. By this is meant that eve ry created thing should be viewed in the light
of the stati on it hath been ord a in ed to occupy.”32 Eve ry created thin g, and this inc ludes the creati ons of
the psyche; “To wh ate ver hei g h ts the mind of the most exalted of men may soar, howe ver great the de p t hs
which the de tac h ed and unde rs tand ing heart can penetrate, such mind and heart can never tran s ce nd that
which is the creat ure of their own conce p ti ons and the pro duct of their own thou g h ts.” What a profound
m ys te ry! What a su i table endeavor for mys ti cis m !
In clo sin g, let us ponder some pa s sages from Bahá’u’ lláh, lo oking anew at them, seeing in them pro-
found psyc h olo gi cal a s s e r ti ons of the most serious imp or t. By a s s e r ting they are psyc h olo gi cal state-
m e n ts implies only that they are at lea s t p s yc h olo gi cal, and psyc h olo gy puts them within the grasp of
e ve ry pers on’s exp e r i e nce:
As a token of His merc y, howe ve r, and as a pro of of His lov in g-kindness, He hath man i fe s ted
4 2

The Fi rm Cord of Se rv i t u d e
un to men the Day Stars of His div ine guid ance, the Sy mb ols of His div ine un i t y, and hat h
ord a in ed the knowl ed ge of these sanc ti f i ed Bein gs to be ide n ti cal with the knowl ed ge of His ow n
S e l f. Whoso reco g n izeth them hath reco g n iz ed God. Whoso hearkeneth to their call, hath hear-
ke n ed to the Voi ce of God, and whoso te s tifieth to the truth of their Re ve l ati on, hath te s ti f i ed
to the truth of God Him s e l f.
W h ate ver duty Thou hast pre s c r ibed un to Thy servan ts of extoll ing to the ut most Thy maj e s t y
and glory is but a token of Thy grace un to them, that they may be enabl ed to a s ce nd un to the
s tati on con fe r red up on their own inmost bein g, the stati on of the knowl ed ge of their ow n
s e l ve s.
O My servan ts! Could ye appre h e nd with wh at wonde rs of My mun i f i ce nce and bounty I have
w ill ed to entrust your souls, ye would, of a trut h, rid yours e l ves of at tac hment to all created
t h in gs, and would ga in a true knowl ed ge of your own selve s—a knowl ed ge which is the same a s
the compre h e n si on of Mine own Bein g. Ye would find yours e l ves inde p e ndent of all else but Me ,
and would perceive, with your inner and outer eye, and as man i fest as the re ve l ati on of My efful-
gent Name, the seas of My lov in g-kindness and bounty mov ing within you .35
To wh ate ver extent they who seek to rise to the highest stati ons of mys tic knowl ed ge may a s ce nd
or to wh ate ver high stati on in the deg rees of ce r ti t ude they that hold fast to the Div ine un i t y
m ay climb, they are only read ing the lette rs of the book of their souls (c f. Qur’án 17:14), onl y
at ta in ing the sign that is reful gent, de p o si ted, incor p orated, and conceal ed within the real i ti e s
of their own inner being and only re vol v ing around the ce n t res of the circles of their own essen-
ti al nat ure s. And as for the stages that are ab ove their worlds and be yond their at ta inment, they
are not able to seek in for m ati on ab out them nor to unde rs tand them.36
Sure l y, if we ponder Clement of Alexandr i a’s statement that “when a man knows himself he knows
G o d ,” we real ize the profound imp or tance of self-knowl ed ge, no mat ter how lim i ted. We are a lim i ted
c reati on, and yet this lim i tati on is vast and expan sive. Inde ed, the “f irm cord of serv i t ude” is wh at we
ob s e rve in the emb o d i ed life of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the Bahá’í Exe mpl ar.
Note s
1) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Tabl e ts of the Div ine Plan, re v. ed. (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1977), p. 48; p. 18.
2) Bahá’u’ lláh, The Seven Vall e ys and the Four Vall e ys (SV), tran s. Gail, M. re v. ed. (Wilm e t te, Ill.: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t ,
1952), p. 18.
3) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Tablet to August Fore l, or i gin al te xt publ is h ed in Pe rsi an in 1992, this te xt from REF ER pro g ram, p. 15, it
is taken from The Bahá’í World, Vol. XV, pp. 37–43.
4) Bahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, tran s. Effe nd i, S., 2nd re v. ed., (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Trust, 1976), pp. 317–318.
5) ibid., p. 178.
6) Bahá’u’ lláh, Comm e n tary on “He who Knows Himself Knows His Lord ,” prov. tran s. by J.R. Cole, from B ahá’u’ lláh,
Maj mu‘ih-yi Matbu‘ih-yi Alvah-i Mub arakih, ed. Muh y i’d-Din Sab r i, (Wilm e t te, Ill.: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1978), pp.
346–361.
7) Ci ted in Jun g, Carl, Ai on, C oll ec ted Work s 9i i, (CW) ed s. Read, Sir H., Fordh am, M., Adl e r, G., Mc Gu ire, Wm., tran s.
Hull, R. F. C. (New Jers e y: Pr ince ton Unive rsity Press, Boll in gen Series XX); par. 347.
8) Jun g, CW 5, par. 129.
9) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, (SAQ), tran s. Laura Clifford-B ar n e y. 3rd ed., (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Tr u s t), 1981, p. 149.
10) Bahá’u’ lláh’s “C omm e n tary on a Ve rse of Rum i,” prov isi on al tran s l ati on by J. Col e.
11) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Tablet to August Fore l, p. 25.
12) Hillm an, Jam e s. A n ima Mundi: The Re t urn of the Soul to the World, (Te xa s: Spr ing Publ i cati ons, 1992), p. 95.
13) This is found in the compil ati on on the Environm e n t. Due to my lo cati on, I do not have access to this do cument, thu s
t h is may not be ve rb atim .
14) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán: The Book of Certi t ude, tran s. Effe nd i, S., 2nd ed., (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h in g
Trust, 1970), p. 31.
15) SV, op. ci t., p. 39.
4 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
16) Mom e n, M. “Re l ativ ism: A Basis for Bahá’í Me taph ysi c s ,” in St udies in the Bábi and Bahá’í Re l i gi ons Vol. 5, (L o s
A n ge l e s: Kal im at Pre s s), 1988, pp. 185 –217.
17) See G l ean in gs, sec ti on LXXIV.
18) G l ean in gs, sec ti on LXXXI I .
19) This is dis cu s s ed in the aut h or’s work, Summon ing the Courage: Jun gi an Ps yc h olo gy, Spir i t u al Ps yc h olo gy and the Bahá’í
Teac h in gs, written as a thesis for the Gradu ate Fe llowship Di ploma at Landegg Acade m y; unpubl is h ed .
20) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, tran s., Gail, M. (Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre), 1978, p. 193.
21) These have been de ve lop ed further in the aut h or’s other works as it impin ges up on epis te molo gi e s. The rom an ti c-vs.-
c l a s sic, as we ll as nom in al is t-vs.-real ist are ph ilo s oph i cal and cult ural or i e n tati on s. For a fuller dis cu s si on of these in the
works of Jun g, see his Ps yc h olo gi cal Types, in the C oll ec ted Work s Vol. 6; see also Cope, T., Re-T h inkin g, Re-Visi on in g,
Re-P l acin g: From Plotinus to Bahá’u’ lláh in a Jung Way, for t h com in g, Feb r u ary 2001, UK: George Ron ald Pre s s.
22) Intro duc ti on to Bahá’u’ lláh’s “Tablet of the Uncomp ounded Real i t y” (L aw˙ Basít al-Ha q íqa); prov. tran s. by M. Mom e n
of te xt found in I q tid ár á t, no date, no pl ace of publ i cati on, pp. 105 –116; 1999.
23) This is dis cu s s ed by F. Rahm an in his ar ticle, “D ream, Imagin ati on, and ‘A l am al’m i t h al ,” in Von Gr un eb aum, G. E.,
and Ca illois, R. ed s., The Dream and Hum an Soci e ti e s, (Los Ange l e s: Unive rsity of Cal i fornia Press, 1966), pp. 409 –416.
24) “‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Comm e n tary on the Islamic Trad i ti on: ‘I was a Hidde n
Trea sure ,’” in B ahá’í St udies Bull e tin, Vol. 3:4, (D ec. 1985), tran s. Mom e n, M., pp. 4– 64, emph a sis added .
25) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Selec ted Lette rs, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1955), p.
206.
26) G l ean in gs, p. 340.
27) SV, p. 34.
28) Bahá’u’ lláh’s “C omm e n tary on a Ve rse of Rum i,” prov isi on al tran s l ati on by J. Col e. This can be found on the World
Wide Web at: http://www-p e rs on al .um i c h .edu / ~ j rcol e/.
29) SAQ, p. 230.
30) see fn. 28.
31) It is vital to unde rs tand that the Jun gi an and Freud i an use of “libido” are dis sim il ar. Jung uses it in the manner of an
“e n e rgic conce p t” not re s t r i c ted like Freud was wont to do. See Jun g, “The St r uc t ure and Dy n amics of the Ps yc h e ,” CW
8, pars. 1–130.
32) G l ean in gs, p. 188.
33) ibid., pp. 49 –50.
34) ibid., pp. 3–4.
35) ibid., pp. 326–327.
36) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Mak atib ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Vol. 1, pp. 62–102, prov isi on al tran s. Mom e n, M., 2000.
4 4

The Human In t e l l e c t
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
by Adrian John Davis
“T hrough this faculty man ente rs in to the ve ry Kin gdom of God.”
Introduction
T
he term in te ll ec t has been used ve ry loosely in psyc h olo gy, from being equ ivalent to eve ry t h in g
rati on al to being a generic term cove r ing co g n i tive pro cesses as a wh ol e. Even in eve ryd ay lan g u age
we hear the term used in a loose co g n i tive way to de note people who are in te ll i gent, such as, “He
has a fine in te ll ec t.” In this ar ticle, howe ve r, I wish to show that the term in te ll ec t de notes two facul-
ties of the hum an bein g. For in s tance, in the Bahá’í writin gs, wh ile the term in te ll ec t is also used in con-
n ec ti on with the rati on al power of Man, it also de notes a spir i t u al facult y, which tran s ce nds such men-
tal faculti e s. Thus, in ge n e ral usage, the term has two diffe rent mean in gs alt h ough un for t un ately they are
fre quently in te rc h an ged, with the second de notati on being sub sum ed and lost under the first mean in g,
cau sing a blur r ing and veil ing of the Inte ll ec t’s higher exalted nat ure.
In this ar ticle then, a fter an his tor i cal account of refe re nces to I n te ll ec t2 in Gre e k, Jewis h, and Islam i c
ph ilo s ophy and theolo gy, to gether with an expl an ati on of the link be tween I n te ll ec t and the proph e ti c
ability of the Man i fe s tati ons of God, I shall present an account of I n te ll ec t from a Bahá’í pers p ec tive ,
and from that conc lude that there are two sources of knowl ed ge. I shall then expl a in wh at the pur p o s e
of hav ing such a faculty should be, and out l ine the two essenti al cond i ti ons for its use. Fin all y, I shall
t ry to ind i cate how the I n te ll ec t is to be used via med i tati on and the employment of the im agin ati on in
g u ided im age ry.
Intellect as Reason and as a Spiritual Faculty
T h e re are many de s c r i p ti ons of Man’s in te ll ect as equ ivalent to rea s on, such as that found in the fol-
low ing pa s sage by Bahá’u’ lláh wh e re in te ll ec t is group ed with compre h e n si on, “We beg them not to
de p e nd up on their in te ll ect, their compre h e n si on and lear n in g, nor to con te nd with the Re vealer of
ce l e s ti al and in f in i te knowl ed ge.”
3 Howe ve r, the or i gin of this type of in te ll ec t is also ac knowl ed ged and
de s c r ibed as hav ing a spir i t u al cause, making it a sup e r n at ural or metaph ysi cal ph e nom e non rather than
a ph ysi cal one, as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá states, “…w i t h out the Holy Spirit he would have no in te ll ec t. …”
4 and “A ll
the powe rs and at t r ibutes of man are hum an and hered i tary in or i gin —outcomes of nat ure’s pro ce s s e s—
e xcept the in te ll ect, which is sup e r n at ural .”
5 A nd in a re m ark able pa s sage, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá gives us fur t h e r
in sight in to the spir i t u al reality of I n te ll ec t wh e re he talks of three real i ties in the hum an bein g, nam e-
l y, ph ysi cal, rati on al, and spir i t u al, the ph ysi cal reality being in common with an im als, the rati on al real-
ity being re s p on sible for ob s e rv ing the mys teries of sci e nce, and the third reality of Man being in s pired
by the Holy Spirit and allow ing visi on ac ross time to occur, as we ll as being that which be s tows ete r n al
l i fe, “Man is endowed with an outer or ph ysi cal real i t y. It be lon gs to the mate r i al realm, the an im al kin g-
dom, because it has spr ung from the mate r i al world. This an im al is tic reality of man he shares in com-
mon with the an im al s. The hum an body is like an im als subj ect to nat ure’s laws. But man is endowed with
4 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
a second real i t y, the rati on al or in te ll ec t u al real i t y; and the in te ll ec t u al reality of man predom in ates ove r
n at ure. All these sci e nces which we enj oy we re the hidden and recond i te sec re ts of nat ure, unknowabl e
to nat ure, but man was enabl ed to dis cover these mys teries, and out of the pl ane of the unseen he
b rought them in to the pl ane of the seen. Yet there is a third reality in man, the spir i t u al real i t y. Throu g h
i ts med i um one dis cove rs spir i t u al re ve l ati ons, a ce l e s ti al faculty which is in f in i te as regards the in te l-
l ec t u al as we ll as ph ysi cal realm s. That power is con fe r red up on man through the breath of the Hol y
Spir i t. It is an ete r n al real i t y, an inde s t r uc tible real i t y, a reality be lon ging to the div ine, sup e r n at ural
kin gdom; a reality wh e reby the world is illum in ed, a reality which gran ts un to man ete r n al life. This
t h ird, spir i t u al reality it is which dis cove rs past eve n ts and lo oks along the vis tas of the fut ure. It is the
ray of the Sun of Real i t y. The spir i t u al world is enl i g h te n ed through it, the wh ole of the Kin gdom is
being illum in ed by it. It enj oys the world of beati t ude, a world which had not beginn ing and which shall
h ave no end .”
6 It is this third spir i t u al reality of Man which refe rs to the second use of I n te ll ec t ab ove.
The History of Intellect
In the his tory of ph ilo s oph y, the do c t r ine of in te ll ec t has a dis tin g u is h ed ped i g re e. In chap ter 5 of
B o ok III of the De Anim a (1986), Aris totle (384–322 BC) drew a two -tier dis tinc ti on be tween ac tive and
pa s sive in te ll ec t, of which the comm e n tator Laws on-Tanc red says, “…the pa s sive in te ll ect seems to
e mb race those a s p ec ts of thinking which…seem most conn ec ted with mor tality and the ac tive in te ll ec t
to emb race the re m a inde r” (p. 93). Of this lat ter div isi on, Aris totle de s c r ibed it as “in te ll ect from with-
out” and “s e l f- c reating thinkin g” (ibid, p. 95), and that to par ti ci pate in this God-l ike ac tiv i t y, Laws on-
Tanc red ob s e rves, was “to som e h ow come to par ti ci pate in its immor tal i t y” (ibid, p. 96). Inde ed, in Book
L ambda of the “Me taph ysi c s ,” Aris totle says that the noblest ac tivity is con te mpl ati on, an ac tivity of
in te ll ec t, which God is doing con tinuou s l y, wh ile in the “N i c h om ac h ean Et h i c s ,” Aris totle arg ues that
the highest happiness for Man is this con te mpl ative life.
The Jewish schol ar Moses Ma imon ides (1135 –1204) de votes seve ral chap te rs of his Gu ide for the
Pe r pl e xed to an exam in ati on of the faculty of I n te ll ec t. He de s c r ibes such a faculty as un ique to Man,
d is tin g u is h ing him from the an im als by giv ing him access to a source of knowl ed ge be yond the senses
and making him akin to God, “As man’s dis tinc ti on con sis ts in a property which no other creat ure on
earth possesses, viz., in te ll ec t u al perce p ti on, in the exe rcise of which he does not employ his senses, nor
move his hand or his fo ot, this perce p ti on has been compared …to the Div ine perce p ti on, which re qu ire s
no cor p oreal organ. On this account…he is sa id to have been made in the form and likeness of the
A lm i g h t y…” (Ch. 1, p.14). This property is not a ph ysi cal one, “…it is not a power inh e rent in the body,
but a power which is ab s olutely separate from the body, and is from without brought in to con tact with
the body” (Ch. 72, p.119). Fur t h e r more, it is this div ine in flue nce “…which enables us to think, and give s
us the var i ous deg rees of in te ll i ge nce” (Ch. 37, p. 227). For in s tance, in a pers on in wh om the div in e
in flue nce reaches their the lo gi cal but not the im agin ative faculty one sees “the cond i ti on of wise men
or ph ilo s oph e rs”; if it reaches both the lo gi cal and im agin ative faculties then “t h is is the case with
proph e ts”; and if it reaches the im agin ative but not the rati on al faculty then one has “s tate s m an, law-
give rs …” (ibid, p. 228).
Mu s l im schol ars such as Al-Farabi (878 –950 AD) and Av i ce nna (I b n-Sinna, 980–1037 AD) also wrote of
I n te ll ec t. In an illum in ating book by Rahm an (1958), we learn that Al-Farabi also de s c r ibed Man as pos-
s e s sing a two -tier in te ll ec t u al struc t ure, nam e l y, the hum an in te ll ec t and the ac tive in te ll i ge nce. The
f irst of these is div ided in to p ote n ti al in te ll ec t which can become ac t u al in te ll ec t when the knowl ed ge
of Forms (as taught by Plato) has star ted to ac t u al ize (p. 11) in it, and ac qu ired in te ll ec t, when the ac t u-
al in te ll ec t con te mpl ates itself as a Form (p. 12); the second div isi on compr ises the Holy Ghost, and the
t ran s ce nde n tal in te ll i ge nce ( p. 14). Of this second div isi on Al-Farabi, like Ma imon ides, also sa id that
I n te ll ec t “comes in to us from outside and is not a part of our mind” (p. 13).
As for Av i ce nna, he regards the I n te ll ect as a faculty “which is already ‘in for m ed’ with the forms of
ac t u al un ive rsal in te ll i gibl e s …” (p. 33); he also sees it as a “s e l f-knowl ed ge” of the soul (p. 15). Like Al-
Farabi, Av i ce nna also regards the beginn ing of in te ll ect as p ote n ti al in te ll ec t, which is “an imm ate r i al
and immor tal sub s tance” and that its ac t u al iz ati on also occurs when “m an conceives the pr im ary ge n e r-
4 6

The Human In t e l l e c t
al trut hs” (p. 14). Av i ce nna be l i e ves that this pro cess marks the beginn ing of ac t u al in te ll ec t ( p. 15),
alt h ough unl ike Al-Farabi’s view, this conceiv ing is not an ab s t rac ti on but a re sult of the direct eman a-
ti ons of the Ac tive Inte ll i ge nce (p. 15). Now when the p ote n ti al in te ll ec t is able to op e rate fully without
any sensory input we then have the ac qu ired in te ll ec t ( pp. 14–15). Av i ce nna also de s c r ibes the ac qu ired
in te ll ec t as a creative facult y, which is a man i fe s tati on of the Ac tive Inte ll i ge nce ( p. 19). After ac qu ired
in te ll ec t the proph e tic in te ll ec t is reac h ed, which is directly in for m ed by the Ac tive Inte ll i ge nce ( p. 20).
The Active Intellect of the Prophet
Ma imon ides has con t r ibuted si g n i f i cantly to the elucid ati on of the re l ati onship of in te ll ect to the
o ccur re nce of proph ec y. He, like Av i ce nna, de s c r ibes proph ecy as an “e m an ati on” from God via the
m ed i um of the Ac tive Inte ll ect, “in the first in s tance to man’s rati on al facult y, and then to his im agin a-
tive facult y; it is the highest deg ree and greatest perfec ti on man can at ta in; it con sis ts in the most per-
fect de ve lopment of the im agin ative facult y” (Ch. 36, p. 225).
Regard ing this proph e tic in te ll ec t, which ord in ary mor tals do not possess, Rahm an says of the
prophet that He is “… a pers on of ext raord in ary in te ll ec t u al endowment such that, by means of it, he is
able to know all thin gs by himself without help of in s t r uc ti on by an exte r n al source” (p. 30). ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá also te lls us that the Man i fe s tati ons of God permanently possess a higher faculty in add i ti on to the
rati on al soul: this faculty is a “un ive rsal div ine mind ,” which is “a con s ci ous powe r, not a power of in ve s-
ti gati on and of re s earc h,” and that such a power “is the speci al at t r ibute of the Holy Man i fe s tati ons and
of the Daw n in g-P l aces of Prophethood; a ray of this light falls up on the mir rors of the hear ts of the
r i g h teou s.”8 T hus, we as ord in ary hum an bein gs, alt h ough not Man i fe s tati ons of God, are capable of
receiv ing rays of this div ine light and being illum in ated with knowl ed ge of a higher deg ree, given ce r-
ta in cond i ti ons (see be low), alt h ough for most people most of the time con s ci ousness is “rece p tive, not
c reative” (Rahm an, p. 35).
The Bahá’í View of Intellect
The Bahá’í writin gs view the hum an being as an essenti ally rati on al rather than ph ysi cal bein g, this
fact making him sup e r i or to the ph ysi cal creati on, “The reality of man is his thought, not his mate r i al
b o d y. The thought force and the an im al force are par t n e rs. Alt h ough man is part of the an im al creati on,
he possesses a power of thought sup e r i or to all other created bein gs.”9 In the Bahá’í writin gs this
“p owe r” of thought is the m ind, which is regarded as a comp o si te of four powe rs viz. im agin ati on,
t h ought, compre h e n si on, and memory: “Man has…spir i t u al powe rs: im agin ati on, which conceives thin gs ;
t h ought, which refl ec ts up on real i ties; compre h e n si on, which compre h e nds real i ties; memory, wh i c h
re ta ins wh ate ver man im agines, thinks and compre h e nd s.”10 Of these, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says that, “G o d’s
g reatest gi ft to man is that of in te ll ect, or unde rs tand in g.”11
But Man possesses more than m ind—he also has the latent capacity of in te ll ec t, the third reality give n
ab ove. Let us lo ok at this capacity more clo s e l y. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says of this third real i t y, “T h is is a powe r
which encompasses all thin gs, compre h e nds their real i ties, dis cove rs all the hidden mys teries of bein gs ,
and through this knowl ed ge con t rols them: it even perceives thin gs which do not exist outwardl y; that is
to say, in te ll ec t u al real i ties which are not sensible, and which have no outward exis te nce, because they
are in v isible; so it compre h e nds the mind, the spirit, the qu al i ties, the charac te rs, the love and sor row
of man, which are in te ll ec t u al real i ti e s.”12 ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá also con tinues that the capacity of the mind for
s ci e n tific, ar tis tic, legal, and in ve n tive endeavours all ultim ately de r ive from this third real i t y:
“Moreove r, these exis ting sci e nces, ar ts, laws, and endless in ve n ti ons of man at one time we re in v isibl e ,
m ys te r i ous, and hidden sec re ts; it is only the all- e ncompa s sing hum an power which has dis cove red and
b rought them out from the pl ane of the in v isible to the pl ane of the visibl e.”13 T h is I n te ll ec t is thus a
kind of “inner perce p ti on or in si g h t”14 prov id ing “in t u i tive knowl ed ge”15 inc lud ing a “knowl ed ge of
bein g,”16 t h at is, God “…has given us…inner visi on by which we may perceive the glory of God... and the
inner hear ing wh e rewith we may hear the voi ce of our Creator.”17
4 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Two Sources of Knowledge
The possibility of “inner perce p ti on” or “in t u i tive knowl ed ge” means that two sources of knowl ed ge
are ava il able to Man, that is, it is possible for the mind to know and unde rs tand thin gs both with and
w i t h out the help of the senses, as in dreams, “…t h is immor tal hum an soul is endowed with two means of
p e rce p ti on: One is effec ted through in s t r um e n tal i t y; the ot h e r, inde p e nde n t l y. For in s tance, the soul sees
t hrough the in s t r um e n tality of the eye, hears with the ear, smells through the no s t r ils and grasps obj ec ts
with the hand s. These are the ac ti ons or op e rati ons of the soul through in s t r um e n ts. But in the world of
dreams the soul sees when the eyes are clo s ed. The man is seemingly dead, lies there as dead; the ears do
not hear, yet he hears. The body lies there, but he—that is, the soul — t ravels, sees, ob s e rve s. All the
in s t r um e n ts of the body are in ac tive, all the func ti ons seemingly useless. Notw i t hs tand ing this, there is
an imm ed i ate and viv id perce p ti on by the soul. Exhil arati on is exp e r i e nced. The soul jour n e ys, per-
ceives, senses.”
18 T hus the soul knows thin gs in two ways, “t hrough in s t r um e n ts and organ s” and with-
out them.
19 These in s t r um e n ts are on the one hand the senses and the bra in, that is, “sense perce p ti on,”
and “rea s on able perce p ti on” or “in te ll ec ti on,” re s p ec tive l y,
20 wh ile on the other hand the non-in s t r u-
m e n tal way of know ing is by “in sight, the power of inner perce p ti on,”
21 or “in t u i tive knowl ed ge.”
22 I
be l i e ve that the second reality of I n te ll ec t e xpl a ins the exis te nce of the source of knowl ed ge without
in s t r um e n ts and organ s.
The Purpose of Intellect
W h at is the purpose of the I n te ll ec t? Why should Man possess such a facult y? There are two re l ated
rea s ons for the be s towal of this capacity to Man :
(a) for the “awake n ing of the con s ci ous soul of man to perceive the reality of Div in i t y”23 and
(b) the means to “the at ta inment un to His un fa il ing guid ance.”24
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has given us a clear his tor i cal example of the use of the I n te ll ect with regard to the ab ove
purposes, that is, of prov id ing evide nce both for the “reality of Div in i t y” and “un fa il ing guid ance ,”
which I shall quote in full since it is so fa s cin atin g: “Ab out one thou sand years ago a society was for m ed
in Pe rsia call ed the Society of the Fr i e nds, who gat h e red to gether for silent commun i on with the
A lm i g h t y. They div ided Div ine ph ilo s ophy in to two par ts: one kind is that of which the knowl ed ge can
be ac qu ired through lec t ures and study in schools and coll ege s. The second kind of ph ilo s ophy was that
of the Illum in ati, or followe rs of the inner light. The schools of this ph ilo s ophy we re held in sil e nce.
Med i tatin g, and tur n ing their faces to the Source of Light, from that ce n t ral Light the mys teries of the
Kin gdom we re refl ec ted in the hear ts of these peopl e. All the Div ine problems we re sol ved by this powe r
of illum in ati on. This Society of Fr i e nds inc rea s ed greatly in Pe rsia, and up to the present time their soci-
e ties exis t. Many books and epistles we re written by their leade rs. When they a s s e mble in their meetin g-
h ouse they sit silently and con te mpl ate; their leader opens with a ce r ta in prop o si ti on, and says to the
a s s e mbly ‘You must med i tate on this probl e m .’ Then, fre eing their minds from eve ry t h ing else, they si t
and refl ect, and before long the an s wer is re veal ed to them. Many abstruse div ine que s ti ons are sol ved
by this illum in ati on. Some of the great que s ti ons un fold ing from the rays of the Sun of Reality up on the
m ind of man are: the problem of the reality of the spirit of man; of the birth of the spir i t; of its bir t h
from this world in to the world of God; the que s ti on of the inner life of the spirit and of its fate a fter its
a s ce n si on from the body. They also med i tate up on the sci e n tific que s ti ons of the day, and these are like-
w ise sol ved. These people, who are call ed ‘Followe rs of the inner light,’ at ta in to a sup e rl ative deg ree of
p owe r, and are entirely fre ed from bl ind dogmas and im i tati on s. Men rely on the state m e n ts of these
p eopl e: by themselve s— w i t h in themselve s—they sol ve all mys te r i e s. If they find a soluti on with the a s sis-
tance of the inner light, they accept it, and a fte rwards they dec l are it: ot h e rw ise they would con sider it
a mat ter of bl ind im i tati on. They go so far as to refl ect up on the essenti al nat ure of the Div in i t y, of the
Div ine re ve l ati on, of the man i fe s tati on of the Deity in this world. All the div ine and sci e n tific que s ti on s
are sol ved by them through the power of the spir i t.”25
Conditions for the Use of Intellect
Two essenti al cond i ti ons are nece s sary when wis h ing to employ the I n te ll ec t:
4 8

The Human In t e l l e c t
(i) “P urity of hear t ,” which then leads to knowl ed ge and unde rs tand in g, as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá makes clear, “T h e
unde rs tand ing of His words and the compre h e n si on of the ut te rances of the Birds of Heaven are in no
w ise de p e ndent up on hum an lear n in g. They de p e nd solely up on purity of heart, chastity of soul, and
fre edom of spir i t.”
26 I nde ed, the spir i t u al path has al ways re qu ired purity of heart so that fur t h e r
pro g ress in knowl ed ge and unde rs tand ing may occur.
(i i) Faith in God’s Man i fe s tati on in order to receive “the breat hs of the Holy Spir i t”
27 with which to pol-
ish the mir ror of the heart, “…the hum an spirit, unless a s sis ted by the spirit of fa i t h, does not becom e
ac qu a in ted with div ine sec re ts and the heave nly real i ti e s. It is like a mir ror wh i c h, alt h ough clear, pol-
is h ed and brill i ant, is still in need of light. Until a ray of the sun refl ec ts up on it, it cannot dis cove r
the heave nly sec re ts.
28 ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a ins the rea s on for this te nde ncy of Man to be avar i ci ous and
gives hope that there is a means to ove rcome it, “Man possesses two kinds of su s ce p tibil i ti e s: the nat-
ural emoti ons, which are like dust up on the mir ror, and spir i t u al su s ce p tibil i ties, which are merci ful
and heave nly charac te r is ti c s. There is a power which purifies the mir ror from dust and tran sforms its
refl ec ti on in to in tense brill i ancy and rad i ance so that spir i t u al su s ce p tibil i ties may chasten the hear ts
and heave nly be s towals sanc tify them. What is the dust which ob s cures the mir ror? It is at tac hm e n t
to the world, avar i ce, envy, love of luxury and com fort, hau g h tiness and self- de sire; this is the du s t
which pre ve n ts refl ec ti on of the rays of the Sun of Reality in the mir ror. The nat ural emoti ons are
bl am e worthy and are like rust which de pr ives the heart of the boun ties of God.”
Now since “By faith is meant, first, con s ci ous knowl ed ge, and second, the prac ti ce of good de ed s ,”30
to ac qu ire faith one must know and be l i e ve in the Man i fe s tati on of God.31 T h e refore, one must know
t h at Bahá’u’ lláh is that Man i fe s tati on for this time and is therefore essenti al for acce s sing the I n te ll ec t,
Who is “the Source of Li g h t” at this time in hum an his tory.
Meditation and Intellect
Now how does one prac ti ce using the I n te ll ec t? The an s wer is med i tati on, as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a in ed
ab ove, and here, “T hrough the faculty of med i tati on man at ta ins to ete r n al life; through it he receive s
the breath of the Holy Spir i t—the be s towal of the Spirit is given in refl ec ti on and med i tati on. The spir-
it of man is itself in for m ed and stre n g t h e n ed dur ing med i tati on; through it a ffa irs of which man kn e w
not h ing are un folded before his view. Through it he receives Div ine in s pirati on, through it he receive s
h eave nly food. Med i tati on is the key for op e n ing the do ors of mys te r i e s.”32
But how should one med i tate? Shoghi Effe ndi has sa id, “As to med i tati on: This also is a field in wh i c h
the ind iv idu al is fre e. There are no set forms of med i tati on pre s c r ibed in the teac h in gs, no pl an as suc h,
for inner de ve lopm e n t …the manner of doing the lat ter is left entirely to the ind iv idu al ,”33 alt h ough he
also sa id, “…they should guard aga inst sup e rs ti ti ons or fo ol ish ideas cre e ping in to it.”34
Howe ve r, from wh at ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has sa id, we can give some guide l ines on how to med i tate effec tive-
l y. At the outset we must be clear that as the I n te ll ec t and m ind are both diffe rent and so they cannot
b oth func ti on simultan eou s l y, “…the sign of the in te ll ect is con te mpl ati on and the sign of con te mpl ati on
is sil e nce, because it is imp o s sible for a man to do two thin gs at one time—he cannot both speak and
m ed i tate. It is an axi om atic fact that wh ile you med i tate you are speaking with your own spir i t.”35 In this
regard, a pers on who med i tates must ab s t ract himself from the outside world, “In that state man ab s t rac ts
h im s e l f: in that state man withdraws himself from all outside obj ec ts; in that subj ec tive mood he is
imm e rs ed in the ocean of spir i t u al life and can un fold the sec re ts of thin gs-in-t h e m s e l ve s. To illu s t rate
t h is, think of man as endowed with two kinds of si g h t; when the power of in sight is being used the out-
ward power of visi on does not see. This faculty of med i tati on frees man from the an im al nat ure, dis-
cerns the reality of thin gs, puts man in touch with God.”36
Fur t h e r more, know ing that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says “…e ve ry great Cause in this world of exis te nce finde t h
v isible expre s si on through three mean s: first, in te n ti on; second, con f ir m ati on; third, ac ti on,”
37 wh e n
e mb arking up on the use of I n te ll ect one must first check on e’s motive s. This is because on e’s motive s
w ill in flue nce wh at one endeavors to in ve s ti gate, with the heart refl ec ting accord ingly wh at one is in te r-
e s ted in, “… if the faculty of med i tati on is bat h ed in the inner light and charac te r iz ed with div ine at t r ibute s ,
4 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
the re sults will be con f ir m ed. The med i tative faculty is akin to the mir ror; if you put it before ear t hl y
obj ec ts it will refl ect them. Therefore if the spirit of man is con te mpl ating ear t hly subj ec ts he will be
in for m ed of these. But if you turn the mir ror of your spir i ts heave n wards, the heave nly con s te ll ati on s
and the rays of the Sun of Reality will be refl ec ted in your hear ts, and the vir t ues of the Kin gdom will
be ob ta in ed. Therefore let us keep this faculty rightly direc ted — t ur n ing it to the heave nly Sun and not
to ear t hly obj ec ts—so that we may dis cover the sec re ts of the Kin gdom, and compre h e nd the all egor i e s
of the Bible and the mys teries of the spir i t. May we inde ed become mir rors refl ec ting the heave nly real-
i ties, and may we become so pure as to refl ect the stars of heave n .”
S econdl y, one should begin (and end) with the “con f ir m ati on” of a praye r, which ensures on e’s guid ance
and protec ti on. In this regard, one must conn ect with the liv ing Man i fe s tati on of God in the liv ing re l i-
gi on, which in this day is Bahá’u’ lláh, as Shoghi Effe ndi ind i cated, “T hrough med i tati on do ors of de e p-
er knowl ed ge and in s pirati on may be op e n ed. Nat urall y, if one med i tates as a Bahá’í he is conn ec ted with
the Source....”
39 T hus one should use the praye rs of Bahá’u’ lláh .
A nd thirdl y, one should put in to ac ti on wh at one has lear n ed from on e’s inner in sight if one wan ts to
ac h i e ve an y t h in g, for as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says, “The at ta inment of any obj ect is cond i ti on ed up on knowl-
ed ge, vol i ti on and ac ti on .”4 0
Fin all y, I be l i e ve that to use the I n te ll ect we must employ one of the powe rs of the mind, nam e l y, the
faculty of im agin ati on, as a vehicle, so to speak, to travel to the spir i t u al world .41 B ahá’u’ lláh te lls us
t h at, “… ke e nness of unde rs tand ing is due to ke e nness of visi on,”42 t h at is, to de ve lop on e’s power of
v isi on is the same as de ve loping on e’s power of im agin ati on. My justi f i cati on for this is illu s t rated by
Rahm an’s (op. ci t.) re s earch on the pro cess of re ve l ati on which showed that “The ce n t ral pr inci ple on
which the Mu s l im ph ilo s oph e rs found their expl an ati on of the inn e r, psyc h olo gi cal pro cesses of tec hn i-
cal re ve l ati on is that the im agin ative faculty re pre s e n ts in the form of par ti cul ar, sensible im ages and
ve rb al mo des, the un ive rsal simple truth gra s p ed by the proph e t’s in te ll ec t” (p. 36). Rahm an also ci te s
Av i ce nna who sa id that the I n te ll ect func ti ons in terms of symb ols, “It is not imp o s sible that when a
m an’s im agin ative power reaches ext reme perfec ti on so that he receives in his waking life from the Ac tive
I n te ll i ge nce a knowl ed ge of present and fut ure fac ts or of their sensible symb ols and also receives the
s y mb ols of imm ate r i al in te ll i gibles and of the higher mate r i al exis te n ts and, inde ed, sees all these—it is
not imp o s sible that he becomes a prophet giv ing news of the Div ine Realm, thanks to the in te ll i gibl e s
he has received. This is the highest deg ree of perfec ti on a man can reach with his im agin ative powe rs”
( pp. 37–38).
I nde ed, Aris totle in Book III of De Anim a compares the use of I n te ll ect to that of perce p ti on, with
im ages pl ay ing “the part of perce p ts” (Ch. 7), and that “wh e n e ver one is con te mpl atin g, it is some im age
t h at one is con te mpl ating; for the im ages are like the sense data without mat te r” (ibid., Ch. 8)43 T hu s
Ma imon ides (op. ci t.) sa id that wh ile “Part of the func ti ons of the im agin ative faculty is …to re ta in impre s-
si ons by the senses…. The pr inci pal and highest func ti on is perfor m ed when the senses are at re s t … for
then it receives, to some extent, div ine in s pirati on in the mea sure it is pred is p o s ed for this in flu-
e nce … such a pers on will undoub tedly perceive not h ing but thin gs ve ry ext raord in ary and div ine, and see
not h ing but God and His an ge l s. His knowl ed ge will only inc lude that which is real knowl ed ge, and his
t h ought will only be direc ted to such ge n e ral pr inci ples as would te nd to improve the soci al re l ati on s
be tween man and man” (Ch. 36, pp. 225 –226).
T hus, if the prophet has to use the im agin ative faculty to bring spir i t u al trut hs to this world, then we
can re ve rse the pro cess and use the same im agin ative faculty to re t urn to the spir i t u al world. Now how
does the im agin ative faculty work in prac ti ce? This is to be ac h i e ved through g u ided im age ry, wh i c h
works by using med i tative scripts and appropr i ate symb ols which visu al ize jour n e ys to the inner world
wh e re an s we rs are found to que s ti ons that are put to the Inte ll ect, as the membe rs of the Illum in ati did
as re l ated ab ove, that is, “In that state of mind you put ce r ta in que s ti ons to your spirit and the spir i t
an s we rs: the light breaks forth and the reality is re veal ed .”44 The re sults are evidently ve ry powe r ful, a s
Av i ce nna ind i cates, “Ve r il y! God has ove rwh e lm ing majesty and greatness; wh at I have witnessed is
s om e t h ing wonde r ful not to be found in the entire ran ge of exis te nce” (Rahm an, p. 37).
5 0

The Human In t e l l e c t
Conclusion
In this ar ticle I have tried to de mon s t rate that in add i ti on to a lo gi cal employment, the concept of
I n te ll ect adm i ts of a nobler endeavor, namely spir i t u al perce p ti on. I have tried to prove this by refe re nce
to seve ral dis tin g u is h ed his tor i cal sources and by arg um e n ts found in the newest of the world’s fa i t hs ,
the Bahá’í re l i gi on. Fur t h e r more, this in te ll ec t u al perce p ti on is to be used to perceive div inity and
receive guid ance—the highest expre s si on of this being proph ecy—the cond i ti ons for such use being an
e xalted stand ard of pers on al morality and faith in God’s Man i fe s tati on. Fin all y, I have in t ro duced the
reader to some pre l im in ary re m arks ab out the tec hn iques of med i tati on and guided im age ry when usin g
the noble faculty of the I n te ll ec t.
Note s
1) Par is Talk s, p. 175.
2) In this ar ticle I shall refer to the rati on al faculty as in te ll ect and to the spir i t u al faculty as I n te ll ec t.
3) The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 248; hear also The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 40,
p. 254, p. 352, p. 356, p. 358, and p. 422 .
4) Par is Talk s, p. 59. I n te ll ect is also compared to a light, the source of which is div ine, “T h is light of the in te ll ect is the
highest light that exis ts, for it is born of the Light Div in e.” Par is Talk s, p. 69; hear also p. 25.
5) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 49, hear also The Reality of Man, p. 46, and Par is Talk s, p. 71. This is why “…
g rowth and de ve lopment de p e nd on on e’s powe rs of in te ll ect and rea s on, not on on e’s age or length of days.” S e l ec ti on s
from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 142 .
6) Found ati ons of World Unity, p. 51. One is strongly re m inded of Plato’s Theory of Forms in this pa s sage. Hear also T h e
Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, pp. 63–4.
7) The third Century Rom an neo -P l aton ist, Plotinus, also dis courses in de ta il on I n te ll ect in ‘The Enn ead s’.
8) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 208, p. 151, and p. 218 re s p ec tive l y; hear also Ma imon ides (ibid., Ch. 38, p. 230). Savi (1989)
has poin ted out that the imp or tance of the Man i fe s tati on in this regard is that Their direct access to div ine knowl ed ge
is a protec ti on for Man so that, “he may not be deceived by his own mind, in its prop o sing obj ec ts of love.” (p. 165).
9) Par is Talk s, p. 17.
10) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 210.
11) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 210.
12) B ahá’í World Fa i t h, p. 304.
13) B ahá’í World Fa i t h, p. 304. This ability to draw out trut hs from in v isible realms we usu ally a s c r ibe to people of ge n i u s.
14) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 325.
15) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 208.
16) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 157.
17) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 90.
18) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 416; this is so since God “…has given us mate r i al gi fts and spir i t u al graces, oute r
sight to view the lights of the sun and inner visi on by which we may perceive the glory of God.” B ahá’í World Fa i t h, p.
267. This re s ol ves the trad i ti on al dichotomy that has long exis ted be tween Empir i cism and Rati on al ism as the two
s ources of knowl ed ge. Hear also The Seven Vall e ys, pp. 32–33, wh e re dreams are signs “so that ph ilo s oph e rs may not
deny the mys teries of the life be yond … .” as we ll as the Katha Upan is h ad, Part 2. Thus it app ears that dur ing sleep, wh e n
the mind is dor m ant and re s ting from its prac ti cal needs, and all sensory impre s si ons have stopp ed, the I n te ll ect is ye t
fully ac tive, as Rahm an quotes from Av i ce nna, “W h e n … in sleep, the soul withdraws from the sensible world and no
lon ger performs this func ti on for the mind, it a s sumes its proper func ti on fre e l y.” (p. 37).
19) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 227.
20) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 357 and p. 417.
21) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 325.
22) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 157.
23) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 142 .
24) B ahá’í Educati on, p. 12 .
25) Par is Talk s, pp. 173–4.
26 The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 211; hear also The Hidden Word s, Arabic 1, and Ma imon ides, Ch. 34, p. 47, as we ll as Ch. 36, pp.
226–227.
27) Ibid., p. 142 .
28) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, pp. 208 –209.
29) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 244; hear also p. 329, and B ahá’í World Fa i t h, p. 367.
30) B ahá’í World Fa i t h, p. 383; hear also The Hidden Word s, Pe rsi an 1, as we ll as S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 130 and pp.
144–145.
5 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
31) Bahá’u’ lláh has told us that the knowl ed ge of God is ide n ti cal with the knowl ed ge of the Man i fe s tati on, “The essence of
be l i ef in div ine unity con sis teth in regard ing Him Who is the Man i fe s tati on of God and Him Who is the in v isible, the
in acce s sible, the unknowable Essence as one and the sam e.” G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, CXXXIX, p.
303; hear also II, p. 5, the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 142, Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 156, S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of the Báb,
p. 77, pp. 82– 83, p. 86, pp. 88 – 89, and p. 158, and S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 222 .
32) Par is Talk s, p. 175. In the same pa s sage it is also sa id that “You cannot apply the name ‘m an’ to any being void of this
faculty of med i tati on; without it he would be a mere an im al, lower than the bea s ts…. Fur t h e r more, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says of
the be n ef i ts of med i tati on, “T h is faculty brin gs forth from the in v isible pl ane the sci e nces and ar ts. Through the med i-
tative faculty in ve n ti ons are made possible, colo s sal unde r takin gs are car r i ed out; through it gove r nm e n ts can run
s mo ot hl y. Through this faculty man ente rs in to the ve ry Kin gdom of God.” Par is Talk s, p. 175.
33) Direc tives from the Gu ard i an, p. 35.
34) Direc tives from the Gu ard i an, p. 47.
35) Par is Talk s, p. 174.
36) Par is Talk s, p. 175.
37) Quoted in Peace, p. 13.
38) Par is Talk s, pp. 175 –176. Her one is strongly re m inded of Plato’s use of dial ec tic to perceive and study the Forms, a s
found in P h aedr u s, 276, and Protagora s, 323.
39) Direc tives from the Gu ard i an, p. 47. An in te re s ting pro cedure for the use of prayer for sol v ing problems is given in A
S e l ec ti on: Bahá’í Praye rs, pp. 126–7, in which the praye rs of the Man i fe s tati on are to be used since “they have the great-
est powe r.”
40) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 157.
41) Such as the concept of the Me rk ab ah or the Char i ot employed in Kabb al ah’s med i tati on s.
42) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 35.
43) Howe ve r, Aris totle con tinues that the thou g h ts of the I n te ll ect are not the same as im ages, “Is it not be t ter to say that
n either they nor the ot h e rs are im ages, but that they cannot occur without im age s?” (ibid .)
44) Par is Talk s, pp. 174-175. Such scripts can be de si g n ed incor p orating appropr i ate plots and symb ol s.
Bibl i o g raph y
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1945). Found ati ons of World Unity. Wilm e t te, Ill.: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1971). The Reality of Man. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1978). S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1979). Par is Talk s. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1982). The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace. Wilm e t te, Ill.: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1987). S ome Answe red Que s ti on s. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. B ahá’í World Fa i t h.
A r is totle, (1986). De Anim a. Pe n g u in .
Bá b, The. (1982) S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of the Bá b. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre.
B ahá’u’ lláh, (1975). The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
B ahá’u’ lláh, (1978). G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
B ahá’u’ lláh, (1978). The Seven Vall e ys and the Four Vall e ys. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
B ahá’u’ lláh, (1982). The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
B ahá’u’ lláh, (1988). Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh. Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t.
B ahá’u’ lláh, (1992). The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Centre.
Ma imon ides, M., (1956). The Gu ide for the Pe r pl e xed. Dove r.
P l ato, (1973). P h aedr u s. Pe n g u in .
P l ato, (1956). Protagora s. Pe n g u in .
P lotinus, (1991). The Enn ead s. Pe n g u in .
Rahm an, F., (1958). Proph ecy in Islam. London .
Sav i, J., (1989). The Ete r n al Quest for God. Oxford: George Ron ald Publ is h e rs.
(1965). The Upan is h ad s. Pe n g u in .
5 2

The Pe rfect Ma n
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
by Y.A. Io a n n e s y a n
‘A
bdu’ l-B ahá menti ons a Pe r fect Man seve ral tim e s. In his “C omm e n tary on the 11th Chap ter of
the Re ve l ati on of St. John” He says, “In the beginn ing of the eleventh chap ter of the Re ve l ati on
of St. John it is sa id: ‘A nd there was given me a re ed like un to a rod: and the an gel stood, say-
in g, Rise, and mea sure the te mple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein. But the cour t
which is without the te mple leave out, and mea sure it not; for it is given un to the Gentil e s: and the hol y
city shall they tread under fo ot forty and two mon t hs.’” Then ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá goes on to expl a in: “T h is re ed
is a Pe r fect Man Who is like n ed to a re ed, and the manner of its likeness is this: when the in te r i or of a
re ed is empty and free from all mat te r, it will pro duce beauti ful melodies; and as the sound and melo d i e s
do not come from the re ed, but from the flute pl ayer who blows up on it, so the sanc ti f i ed heart of that
bl e s s ed Being is free and emp ti ed from all save God, pure and exe mpt from the at tac hm e n ts of all hum an
cond i ti ons, and is the compan i on of the Div ine Spir i t. Whate ver He ut te rs is not from Him s e l f, but from
the real flute pl aye r, and it is a div ine in s pirati on. That is why He is like n ed to a re ed; and that re ed is
l ike a ro d — t h at is to say, it is the helper of eve ry imp otent one, and the supp ort of hum an bein gs. It is
the rod of the Div ine Sheph e rd by which He guards His flock and leads them ab out the pa s t ures of the
Kin gdom” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 45].1 “T h e refore, it cannot be sa id there was a
time when man was not. All that we can say is that this te r re s t r i al globe at one time did not exist, and
at its beginn ing man did not app ear up on it. But from the beginn ing which has to beginn in g, to the end
which has no end, a Pe r fect Man i fe s tati on al ways exis ts. This Man of Whom we speak is not eve ry man ;
we mean the Pe r fect Man [ibid, 196]. In another in s tance ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’ menti ons the Pe r fect Man in Par is
Talk s: “To man is given the speci al gi ft of the in te ll ect by which he is able to receive a larger share of
the light Div in e. The Pe r fect Man is as a pol is h ed mir ror refl ec ting the Sun of Tr ut h, man i fe s ting the
at t r ibutes of God” [Par is Talk s, p.13].2
These, along with other occa si on s ,
3 h ave cau s ed me to refl ect up on the nat ure of the “Pe r fect Man” in
Su f ism wh e re this concept or i gin ated in order to trace some of the an alo gies and essenti al diffe re nce s
be tween the concept of the “Pe r fect Man” (“Pol e”) in Su f ism and the Bahá’í noti on of the Man i fe s tati on
of God. What unde rlies both these noti ons is the idea that at all times the Div ine Will man i fe s ts Its e l f
to hum anity through or in a ce r ta in Pe rs on, whose purpose is to be a sheph e rd, guard i an and educator
of hum ankind, direc ting it towards the good and ke e ping it from wh at is wron g. This idea can be traced
to the Qur’án: “He direc teth the ord in ance from the heaven un to the ear t h; then it a s ce ndeth un to Him
in a Day, wh e reof the mea sure is a thou sand years of that ye rec kon” [32:4].
T h at the Div ine Comm and needs an expre s si on in the form of a Div ine Vi cege rent and Educator for
the educati on of hum ankind, is clearly stated by Sufi ph ilo s oph e rs. Su f is m, as we are aware, does not
h ave a sin g ul ar nor un i form teac h in g. Eve ry ind iv idu al writer may have a slightly diffe rent view on a
par ti cul ar is sue. He re we may neg l ect these minor diffe re nces be tween Sufi thinke rs and talk ab out
Su f ism as a wh ol e. Let us now con sider some quotati ons from Sufi works, pay ing close at te n ti on to the
h i g hl i g h ted terms and expre s si ons (highl i g h ted by aut h or) :
“For God chooses Me s s e n ge rs from among the an gels and people, so that these may direct hum an s
towards wh at prof i ts them in this world and the next, and re m ind them of the Days of the Lord, the
E xalted, and of the thin gs, which they have forgot te n, in order to occupy them with [t h eir] de ve lop-
ment…. He teaches them the Book, wis dom and ..., in which (B o ok) the comm ands and pre s c r i p ti on s
ab out adm in is t rati on, purity and worship are clearly stated .... There of nece s sity exis ts for hum ankind ,
5 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
5 4
d im in is h ed by [i ts hum an] nat ure ,...a Gove r nor, con f ir m ed by God, so that he may visibly or in v isibl y
ove r p ower souls, which re sist the Tr uth and are subj ect to their pa s si on s. But for him order would neve r
be establ is h ed in their ear t hly exis te nce…. If there we re no one to re s t ra in them through [his] ove r p ow-
e r ing might and force, both in wardly and outwardly or in one of these [two ways], their sub m is si on and
re si g n ati on to His dec rees and comm andm e n ts would be imp o s sibl e.... But for the re s t r i c ti ons imp o s ed
on the subj ec ts, the world would never be in orde r.... Nece s sar il y, at all times there is an Educator, as a
v i cege rent of the true Prophet, who turns the creati on towards the Tr uth. The vicege rent of nece s si t y
possesses div ine con f ir m ati on, so that he may subdue people [who seek] lear n ing and profit those wh o
can draw be n efit [from it]” [‘A lá- al-Dawla Simn ání .
– Al-Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 488
(all tran s l ati ons are the aut h or’s unless ot h e rw ise stated)].
“Since this vicege re ncy is a nece s si t y, establ is h ed by God in the world ... , con s e quently the app earance
of a vicege rent at all times is needed for... at ta in ing un to perfec ti on, which is worthy of each hum an
bein g” [Qaysarí.
, lithograph y, p. 34].
“The Div ine Comm and /Cause needs an expre s si on, in order to adm in is ter Ju s ti ce ,.... [and] guard the
order in this world and the next. That this [e xpre s si on] should rule in Its Lord, Who is the Lord of Ho s ts ,
in heaven al s o, executing Ju s ti ce. So that each of them (im age s) may at ta in un to its perfec ti on, both out-
ward and in ward. He is the Prophet, the Tr ue Pol e, ete r n al and ever abid in g, the First and the Last, the
Man i fest and the Hidden. And He is the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence/Real i t y” [Qaysarí.
–
A l-Tir m iz í, Khat m ... App e nd ix), p. 490].
We come here to the imp or tant noti on of the “Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence” or “Mu ˙ amm ad an Li g h t” (an al-
o gous to the “L o go s” of Neopl aton i ans and the “Word” of the Chr is ti an s), the first eman ati on from God,
also going by the name of the “Pr im al Inte ll ec t.” This is the Image of God in its und i ffe re n ti ated (und i-
v ided) un i t y. It is by and from this Essence, Which pre e xis ted all thin gs in creati on (not in time, for tim e
and space are pecul i ar prop e r ties of the ph ysi cal realm, but as a cause, which pre e xis ts its effec t), that
all thin gs we re created. The “Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence” is succe s sively real iz ed in Ad am, the Proph e ts and
the Poles each of wh om is “The Pe r fect Man of the age.”
The ph ilo s ophic de ve lopment of this is sue in the form of a do c t r ine is a s s o ci ated with the name of
the great Sufi ph ilo s opher from And alou sia (S outhern Spa in) Ibn al-‘A rabí (1165 –1240), though clear allu-
si ons to the same idea can be traced in the work of an earlier Sufi writer – Al-Tir m izí (IX c.).
T h is is how the or i gin of the “Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence” is expl a in ed by Ibn al-‘A rabí and Dáud Qaysarí :
“T h e re was God, and there was none other than Him (lit.: not h ing with Him).... When He
de sired the exis te nce of the world, He in i ti ated its or i gin within the bounds of wh at He knew of
it by His knowl ed ge in Himself
. Out of this holy vol i ti on, by a
flash of shining light there appeared a separation of the universal substance/reality
,
call ed the “Pr im al Dust”
. This is an alo gous to a sculp tor mold ing the gy p sum or pl a s te r
of Par is, so that pat terns and forms, which he de sires, may be re veal ed in it. This is the first of
all exis ting thin gs.... Then the All- G lor i ous shone forth with His light through the Dust. This is
call ed by thinke rs the “Pr im al /U n ive rsal Mat te r”
. The wh ole world
is [con-
ta in ed] in it in a pote n ti al and ideal form. And each thing in this Dust received from this [Li g h t]
to the extent of its power and capaci t y, like the cor n e rs of a house receive the light from the
l amp to the extent of their proximity to this light, which (proxim i t y) accord ingly con t r ibutes to
t h eir share of illum in ati on and rece p tiv i t y. As He, the Exalted, has sa id: “A ll ah is the Light of
the heavens and the earth. The sim il i t ude of His light is as a niche wh e rein is a lamp” (Qur’án .
24: 35). Thus He has like n ed His Light to a lamp. And there is not h ing in that Pr im al Dust near-
er to this [Li g h t] to receive it, than the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence/Real i t y, call ed the “Pr im al
I n te ll ec t.” It became the Lord of the world in its entirety and it is the first to app ear in the
[realm] of bein g. Thus, its or i gin is from this div ine Light, the Pr im ary Dust and the Unive rsal
Sub s tance/Real i t y” [Ibn al-‘A rabí .
(the pa s sage is quoted by Ámulí in his
, p. 410)].7

The Pe rfect Ma n
5 5
“In expl an ati on of the ‘Vi cege re nc y’ of the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence, Which is the ‘Pole of Pol e s.’
Accord ing to wh at has been establ is h ed, for each of the Div ine Names there is an im age
in God’s Knowl ed ge, call ed the ‘t r ue self ’
or the ‘arc h e t y p e/pr im al im age’
All of them have outward forms, called the ‘expressions’
and ‘m an i fest bein gs’ (
)These Names are the maste rs
of these expre s si ons, who are their subj ec ts
You have l earnt that the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence is the [ideal] im age of God’s ge n e ral Nam e
, which i s i mpl i ed by it. All other na mes eman ate and pro ce ed
from thi s [Nam e]
. Know that the [Mu ˙ amm ad an] Essence
governs all the other im ages of the world (un ive rs e) by the Lord, expre s s ed in them, Who is the
L ord of Ho s ts, for It is the man i fe s tati on
in (t hrou g h) those expre s si ons, as has be e n
s tated. Thus, by Its outward im age, [one of those], re l ated to the im ages of the Unive rse, wh i c h
(the im age) is the expre s si on of the div ine Name ‘The Man i fe s t’ It (the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence)
governs
the [outward] forms of the Unive rse, and by Its inner [real i t y] It governs the inn e r
[real i t y] of the Unive rse, for It is the p o s s e s s or of the Greatest Nam e”
[Qaysarí .
, lithograph y, p. 33].
The si t u ati on can be pre s e n ted in the follow ing tabl e:
The ab ove quotati ons may be summ ar iz ed in the follow ing mann e r:
1. God chooses people (and an ge l s).
2. These Chosen Ones of God direct hum ans towards wh at is good for them.
3. They teach people spir i t u al pr inci ples, laws and wh ate ver is re l ated to the next world .
4. Hum anity is never left without an Educator.
5. He has div ine con f ir m ati on .
6. He brin gs order in to exis te nce.
7. His Purpose is to perfect the hum an race.
8. He is the Rul e r, enj oy ing ind is putable Aut h or i t y.
9. He executes Ju s ti ce.
How does, then, accord ing to Sufi thinke rs, the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence/Reality make itself man i fe s t?
Let us aga in turn to the te xts:
“ [ Mu ˙ amm ad /Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence] is the man i fe s tati on of God’s ge n e ral Name (A lláh). He is
fore ver and ever God’s Vi cege rent in the world. The other Poles and Pe r fect [Me n] are His
v i cege re n ts in His commun i t y.... Whoever of the dwe ll e rs of the ‘Jab arút ,’ ‘Mal ak út’ and the
ph ysi cal realm (‘Mulk’) exis ts in the world does not receive [an y t h in g] but from Him. T h eir per-
fec ti on is from Him, as we ll as His Vi cege re ncy is through them.... This Vi cege rent does not
govern the dwe ll e rs of the earth but in accord ance with the re qu ire m e n ts of the Div in e
C omm and ( l i t.: except that wh at the Div ine Comm and re qu ire s) and the E s s e n ti al Will
.













.
.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
5 6
A nd He be s tows [His boun ti e s] up on the archetypes to the extent of their read iness in ete r n i t y”
[Qaysarí.
–A l-Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 497].
“The Mu ˙ amm ad an Spir i t
has a man i fe s tati on in the world. The most perfect of
H is man i fe s tati ons is in the ‘Pole of the tim e’...” [Ibn al-‘A rabí.
(quoted by Ámulí
in his
, p. 418 (see endnote 7)].
“The one, who has inh e r i ted vicege re ncy from his Fat h e r, Ad am, as legac y, is the the one, wh o
t r uly receives the prop e r t y. For He is God’s Vi cege rent and He is also the Pe r fect [Man] of [His]
time and the Pole of Pol e s” [A l-Til im sani (quoted by Ámulí in his
, p.
505)].8
“The man i fe s tati on
of this Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence is t hrough speci al (s e parate) man i fe s ta-
ti on s ( l i t.: is through the speci al man i fe s tati ons of each of them) to the extent su i table to the
p eople of a given epoch and time, de p e nd ing on wh at the name of the given age
re qu ires at that moment of the man i fe s tati on of perfec ti on. These (m an i fe s tati on s) are in the
forms of Proph e ts, may peace be up on them!
“C on side red from the standp oint of t h eir ind iv idu al iz ati on and pers on i f i cati on, and the pr inci-
ples of plurality and creati on, gove r n ing this realm, which (pr inci pl e s) account for the diffe re nce
and diffe re n ti ati on be tween them in thin gs unre l ated to the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence, which is
common to all the names, the man i fe s tati on of each One of them occurs under a ce r ta in nam e
and [is] charac te r iz ed by ce r ta in qu al i ti e s. If you con sider them from the standp oint of their
Reality and re l ati on to the level of Unity ( l i t.: the pre s e nce of Unity), and the pr inci ple of on e-
ness that governs it, you will grasp the mys te ry be h ind the un i on be tween them and the un i t y
of thin gs of God’s re l i gi on which they brought with them.... Therefore, the Pole, who is the axis
of the fund am e n tal pr inci ples of the world and the Center around which exis te nce re vol ves from
the eternity past to the e ternity fut ure, is one, though con side red from the angle of plu-
ral i t y, It is plural” [Qaysarí .
, lithograph y, p. 34].
From the ab ove quotati ons we learn the follow in g:
1. The Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence, which incor p orates in itself [the pr inci ples of] the Div ine Comm and and
the Div ine Will, is God’s Vi cege rent in the world ;
2. It man i fe s ts Itself to the creat ure s ;
3. It man i fe s ts Itself through separate man i fe s tati on s ;
4. Such man i fe s tati ons are His (Its) vicege re n ts on earth (in the ph ysi cal world) ;
5. These man i fe s tati ons are in the form of God’s chosen Ones—a category, which inc ludes also Proph e ts ;
6. Though each of these man i fe s tati ons pers onifies the same Real i t y, it occurs under a ce r ta in name and
is charac te r iz ed by ce r ta in qu al i ti e s ;
7. They all de mon s t rate the pr inci ple of the Essenti al Unity on one level, and the pr inci ple of plural i t y, wh i c h
is inh e rent in the realm of creati on, on the other (in thin gs unre l ated to the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence) ;
8. The most perfect of His man i fe s tati ons is in the ‘Pole of the tim e’, who is also the Pe r fect [Man] of
[ H is] time and “Pole of Pol e s”;
9. Each man i fe s tati on of the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence occurs to the extent, which is su i table to the peopl e
of a given epoch and tim e.
For all this there are an alo gies in the Bahá’í teac h ing ab out the Man i fe s tati on of God. In the Wr i tin gs
we find the follow ing pa s sage s:
“God leaves not His children comfortless, but, when the darkness of winter overshadows them,
then again He sends His Messengers, the Prophets, with a renewal of the blessed spring. The Sun
of Truth appears again on the horizon of the world shining into the eyes of those who sleep, awak-
ing them to behold the glory of a new dawn. Then again will the tree of humanity blossom and
bring forth the fruit of righteousness for the healing of nations” [Paris Talks, p. 22]. (emphasis
added)

The Pe rfect Ma n
“A ll the Man i fe s tati ons of God came with the same purpose, and they have all sought to lead
men in to the pat hs of vir t ue” [ibid, p. 121]. (e mph a sis added)
“...the Source of in f in i te grace... hath cau s ed those lum inous Gems of Hol iness to app ear out of
the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the hum an te mple, and be made man i fest un to all
m e n, that they may impart un to the world the mys teries of the unc h an geable Bein g, and te ll of
the sub t l e ties of His imp e r is h able Essence” [Bahá’u’ lláh. Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, 99].
“These Coun te n ances are the reci pi e n ts of the Div ine Comm and, and the day-s pr in gs of His
Re ve l ati on” [ibid., p. 153]. (e mph a sis added)
“T hrough their app earance the Re ve l ati on of God is made man i fest, and by their coun te n ance
the Beauty of God is re veal ed” [ibid., 177-178].
“Fur t h e r more, it is evident to thee that the Beare rs of the trust of God are made man i fest un to
the peoples of the earth as the Exp on e n ts of a new Cause and the Beare rs of a new Me s sage.
I n a s much as these Birds of the Celesti al Throne are all sent down from the heaven of the Will
of God, and as they all ar ise to pro c l a im His ir re sis tible Fa i t h, they therefore are regarded a s
one soul and the same pers on” [ibid., p. 152].
“These Man i fe s tati ons of God have each a twofold stati on. One is the stati on of pure ab s t rac ti on
and essenti al un i t y. In this re s p ect, if thou callest them all by one name, and dost a s c r ibe to
them the same at t r ibute, thou hast not erred from the trut h .... For they one and all summon the
p eopl e of the earth to ac knowl ed ge the Unity of God, and herald un to them the Kaw t h ar of an
in f in i te boun t y. They are all in ve s ted with the robe of Prophethood, and honoured with the
m antle of glory.... Say in gs such as this, which ind i cate the e s s e n ti al unity of those Exp on e n ts of
O n e n e s s, have also eman ated from the Channels of God’s immor tal ut te rances, and the
Trea suries of the gems of div ine knowl ed ge, and have been recorded in the scripture s. These
C oun te n ances are the reci pi e n ts of the Div ine Comm and, and the day-s pr in gs of His Re ve l ati on .
T h is Re ve l ati on is exalted ab ove the veils of plurality and the exi ge ncies of numbe r.... Inasmuc h
as the Cause is one and the same, the Exp on e n ts thereof also must needs be one and the sam e....
It is clear and evident to thee that all Proph e ts are the Te mples of the Cause of God, who h ave
app eared clot h ed in dive rse at tire. If thou wilt ob s e rve with dis c r im in ating eyes, thou wilt
be h old them all abid ing in the same tabe r n acle, soar ing in the same heave n, seated up on the
same throne, ut te r ing the same speec h, and pro c l a im ing the same Faith. Such is the unity of
those Essences of bein g, those Lum in aries of in f in i te and imm ea surable spl e ndor” [ibid . ,
152–154]. (e mph a sis added)
“P urge thy sight, therefore, from all ear t hly lim i tati ons, that thou mayest be h old them all as the
beare rs of one Name, the exp on e n ts of one Cause, the man i fe s tati ons of one Self, and the re veal-
e rs of one Tr ut h...” [ibid., 159]. (e mph a sis added)
“We have already in the foregoing pages a s si g n ed two stati ons un to each of the Lum in aries ar is-
ing from the Days pr in gs of ete r n al hol in e s s. One of these stati ons, the stati on of essenti al un i t y,
We have already expl a in ed .... The other is the stati on of dis tinc ti on, and perta ineth to the world
of creati on and to the lim i tati on s t h e reof. In this re s p ect, each Man i fe s tati on of God h ath a d is-
tinct ind iv idu al i t y, a def in i tely pre s c r ibed mis si on, a prede s tin ed Re ve l ati on, and speci ally de s-
i g n ated lim i tati on s. Each one of them is known by a diffe rent name, is charac te r iz ed by a spe-
ci al at t r ibute, ful f ils a def in i te Mis si on and is entrusted with a par ti cul ar Re ve l ati on. Even a s
He saith: ‘S ome of the Apostles We have cau s ed to excel the ot h e rs.... It is because of this dif-
fe re nce in their stati on and mis si on that the words and ut te rances flow ing from these We ll-
s pr in gs of div ine knowl ed ge app ear to dive rge and diffe r. Otherw ise, in the eyes of them that
are in i ti ated in to the mys teries of div ine wis dom, all their ut te rances are in reality but the
e xpre s si ons of one Tr ut h” [ibid., 176–177]. (e mph a sis added)
5 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
5 8
“T hus, viewed from the standp oint of their oneness and subl ime de tac hment, the at t r ibutes of
G o dh ead, Div in i t y, Supreme Singleness, and Inmost Essence, have been and are appl i cable to
those Essences of bein g.... Vi e wed in the light of their second stati on—the stati on of dis tinc ti on,
d i ffe re n ti ati on, te mp oral lim i tati ons, charac te r is tics and stand ard s—they man i fest ab s olute
s e rv i t ude, ut ter de s ti t uti on and compl e te self- efface m e n t. Even as He saith: ‘I am the servant of
God. I am but a man like you’” [ibid., 177–178]. (e mph a sis added)
T h is last quotati on merits speci al noti ce. It has direct parallels in the Sufi de s c r i p ti on of the
“Pe r fect Man”:
“Except for the [attribute of] ‘self-subsistence’
all the divine attributes of necessity
s h ould be appl i cable to the vicege rent, who truly exe mplifies all His nam e s.... We make this [d is-
tinc ti on]: except for ‘s e l f-sub sis te nce ,’ because it is by this [at t r ibute] that the [One Who is] Self-
Sub sis ting is dis tin g u is h ed from him (v i cege re n t).... Because he (v i cege re n t) incor p orates all the
d iv ine mys teries, man i fe s ting God’s ge n e ral Name (A lláh). Con s e que n t l y, the vicege rent is a ser-
vant to God and is the Lord to the world ow ing to his ‘L ord s h i p’” [Qaysarí.
– Al-
Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 497].
“T h is Lordship is from the standp oint of his Reality and not from the standp oint of his hum an-
i t y. For in the lat ter a s p ect [he is] a gove r n ed servan t
, who is in need of his Lord”
[Qaysarí .
, lithograph y, p. 33].
The first sente nce of the first parag raph also has a direct parallel in Bahá’í Wr i tin gs:
“T h e refore, all that the hum an reality knows, dis cove rs and unde rs tands of the names, the
at t r ibutes and the perfec ti ons of God refer to these Holy Man i fe s tati on s” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S om e
A n s we red Que s ti on s, p. 148].
T hus, if we compare the def in i ti on of the Man i fe s tati on of God in the Bahá’í lite rat ure with the Su f i
de s c r i p ti on of the Pe r fect Man we can hardly escape noti cing the sim il ar i ties of the charac te r is ti c s
appl i ed to the Man i fe s tati on of God and the Pe r fect Man, especi ally those which are re l ated to their pur-
pose, func ti on and stati on s. To make this compar is on ea sier we highl i g h ted the most ob v i ous phra sal
an alo gies in the quoted te xts. Let us now con sider other terms, which bear the same mean ing as or are
u s ed in the con te xt of the Pe r fect Man :
“The Pe r fect Man is one, who leads by his essence (in his essence?)...to his Lord. None other than
the Pe r fect Man is the crown of the ph ysi cal world
. He is the one who [is refe r red to] in
H is (G o d’s) say in g: ‘God created Ad am in His own im age’ and ‘He is the First and the Last, the
Man i fest and the Hidde n .’ He is the one, who combines nat ure and in te ll i ge nce. As regards his
n at ure, in him there is the crudest and the most ref in ed comp o si ti on. In him there is an ab s t rac-
ti on from the mate r i als and the powe r, which dom in ate the bodies. No other created being pos-
sesses this [qu al i t y]. It is for this rea s on that he is un iquely marked with the knowl ed ge of all the
n ames and the Word in its entire t y. God does not re veal [to us] that He has be s towed this [qu al-
i t y] up on an yone but the Pe r fect Man .... It is by the Pe r fect Man that the Div ine Dec re e
ab out the re ward and pun is hment becomes man i fest in the world
, and by him order
is establ is h ed and de s t royed, in him it is ful f ill ed, in t ro duced and adm in is te red” [Ibn al-‘A rabí .
– Al-Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 275 –276].
“‘Pe r fec t’ is a man, who has at ta in ed un to the level of perfec ting [ot h e rs], who is perfect in the
knowledge of the religious law
, the mystical Path
and its true experience. Because
the at ta inment un to [t h is] posi ti on is nece s sary that he may perfect ot h e rs” [Ámulí .
– Al- Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 505].
“A Proph e t is a Pe r fect Man, who is sent down from God to His creati on, for him to summon
them (peopl e) to Him, and for their sal vati on from darkness and ignorance” [ibid, 504].

The Pe rfect Ma n
5 9
“A Me s s e n ger is a Pe r fect Man, who combines these stati ons – [t h at of] a Prophet and [t h at of]
a chosen One, and [accumul ate s] all the prop e r ties of these two, re l ated to knowl ed ge, gno-
sis , apostleship and the commun i cati on [of the message]
” [ibid, 504].
“T h e refore it is sa id: ‘The Ab s olute Man
is the Prophet of the tim e ( l i t.: of his tim e)’”
[Ámulí.
, p. 378].
From the former of the ab ove quotati ons it is clear that a Prophet and a Me s s e n ger are inc luded in to
the category of the Pe r fect Man. In the lat ter “the Prophet of the tim e” is ide n ti f i ed with the “Ab s olute
Man,” which su g ge s ts that the Ab s olute Man is but another term to de si g n ate the Pe r fect Man. That
other terms, namely “the Tr ue Man” and “the Pol e ,” are also appl i ed to the Pe r fect Man, follows from
the pa s sages be low:
“K now that wh at is impl i ed by the ‘Tr ue Man’ is the Pr im al light, which is the first Eman ati on
( l i t.: the light to be the first to eman ate –
, the Inte ll ect, the Holy Spir i t”
[ibid, 518, see endnote 5].
“For he (‘A lí) is like a point in re l ati on to the first Ind iv idu al iz ati on
, which is the
E s s e n ti al Mu ˙ amm ad an Light
” [ibid, 563].
“The Pole is on e. It is him, on wh om God’s gaze is fore ver fo cu s ed” [Ámulí .
– Al- Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 504].
“The Pole is the means, wh e reby the inh abi tan ts of the world at ta in un to a true life. He is the
one, on wh om the gaze of Him, [Who is] the Exalted, is fo cu s ed, when He con te mpl ates creat ure s ,
m an i fest and hidden. ‘The Greatest Pol ar i t y’
is the stati on of the ‘Pole of Pol e s’
, which is the inner reality
of Mu ˙ amm ad’s Proph e t h o o d .... It is but by her-
i tage
, which is e xc lu sively
and alto ge t h e r
h is (Mu ˙ amm ad’s), that
t h is [s tati on] is con fe r red up on” [ibid, 504].
It is evident from these state m e n ts that the re l ati on of the ‘Tr ue Man’ and the ‘Pole (Pole of Pol e s)’ to
the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence (or the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essenti al Li g h t), which is clearly def in ed as the firs t
E m an ti on and Ind iv idu al iz ati on, is the same as that of the Pe r fect Man. That the ‘Pol e’ is but a Pe r fec t
Man becomes ever more ob v i ous from the follow ing pa s sage:
“The Pe r fect Man of nece s sity is diffu s ed in all creat ures like the flow of the Tr uth in them.... As the
S h aykh (Ibn al-‘A rabí )... s tated in his ‘Fut uh at’ in the chap ter ‘ab out the posi ti on of the Pol e’: ‘The Pe r fec t
Man is the one, wh om God has de sired to be the Pole of the world and God’s vicege rent therein .... It is
n ece s sary for him to watch all hum an bein gs, who un til the Day of Judgment are goin (lit.: will in g) to
e n ter the [realm of] bein g’” [Qaysarí.
, lithography (s ec ti on 8), p. 33].
It is clear from the con side red quotati ons, that accord ing to the Su f is, the “Pe r fect Man,” who is the
e xpre s si on of God’s Will, is not appl i ed solely to Proph e ts. This conc lu si on is con f ir m ed by another pa s-
sage from Sufi work s:
“The Proph e t h o o d and Sa in ts h i p
h ave a twofold mean ing—the ab s olute and re s t r i c ted ,
in other words: general and particular, legislative
and non-legislative.... As regards to ‘the
absolute ,’ it is the basic         , real            Prophethood, which is ac qu ired in pre- e te r n i t y
and is pres e rved fore ve r.... The real, basic Prophethood con sis ts in the knowl ed ge of the
Prophet, who is endowed with it (Proph e t h o o d), conce r n ing the capaci ties of all the creat ure s
from the standp oint of their essence s
, t h eir cor re s p onde nce to their ideal
mo de l s/arc h e t y p e s
and [in knowl ed ge ab out] their [inn e r mo s t] real i ti e s
. [It
also inc lude s] adm in is te r ing justi ce to all who de s e rve it in a lan g u age, in which they (peopl e)
are capable [of receiv in g] a message ab out the essenti al [real i t y], and [capable of receiv in g] a teac h in g,
[which is] true and ete r n al ,
ab out wh at is known to be the ‘Highest Lord s h i p’
and ‘Supreme Aut h or i t y.’ The possessor of this stati on is nam ed the ‘Greatest Vi cege re n t ,’ ‘Pol e
of Pol e s ,’ ‘Mac ro co s m,’ ‘Tr ue Ad am (Man),’ def in ed as the ‘Supreme Pe n,’ ‘Pr im al Inte ll ec t ,’
.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
6 0
‘Greatest Spir i t’ etc .... This is refe r red to by the in i ti ated
in their ut te rances ab out the
l ikeness be tween God and the world: ‘The Pe r fect Man is like God, who (the Pe r fect Man) is the
t r ue Great Conn ec ting Link
. For God, the Exalted, gazes up on the world by his
gaze and graci ously be s tows exis te nce up on it (the world)...” [Ámulí .
, p. 380].
T h is pa s sage is highly re m ark able, for it highl i g h ts at one time a point of con side rable diffe re nce from
and a point of ob v i ous sim il arity with the Bahá’í teac h in g. One Di ffe re nce con sis ts in the fact, that in
the Bahá’í teac h ing the Man i fe s tati on of God or God’s Will is ide n ti f i ed only with the Proph e t-founde rs
of re l i gi on s. They are the sole channels for the Div ine Will to man i fest Itself to creati on :
“The spl e ndors of the perfec ti ons, boun ties and at t r ibutes of God shine forth and rad i ate from
the reality of the Pe r fect Man — t h at is to say, the Unique One, the supreme Man i fe s tati on of
God. Other bein gs receive only one ray, but the supreme Man i fe s tati on is the mir ror for this Sun,
which app ears and becomes man i fest in it, with all its perfec ti ons, at t r ibutes, signs and won-
de rs. The knowl ed ge of the Reality of the Div inity is imp o s sible and un at ta in able, but the
knowl ed ge of the Man i fe s tati ons of God is the knowl ed ge of God, for the boun ties, spl e ndors
and div ine at t r ibutes are apparent in Them. Therefore, if man at ta ins to the knowl ed ge of the
Man i fe s tati ons of God, he will at ta in to the knowl ed ge of God...” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red
Que s ti on s, p. 222].
“The Man i fe s tati on — t h at is, the Holy Lawgive r— unless He is aware of the real i ties of bein gs ,
w ill not compre h e nd the essenti al conn ec ti on which pro ce eds from the real i ties of thin gs, and
He will ce r ta inly not be able to establ ish a re l i gi on con for m able to the fac ts and su i ted to the
cond i ti on s. The Proph e ts of God, the supreme Man i fe s tati ons, are like skill ed ph ysi ci ans, and
con tin gent world is like the body of man: the div ine laws are the re m edy and treat m e n t” [ibid ,
158].
“The Man i fe s tati ons of un ive rsal Prophethood Who app eared inde p e ndently are, for exampl e ,
Ab rah am, Moses, Chr ist, Mu ˙ amm ad, the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh. But the ot h e rs who are follow-
e rs and promote rs are like Solomon, Dav id, Isa i ah, Jere m i ah and Ezekiel. For the inde p e nde n t
Proph e ts are founde rs; They establ ish a new re l i gi on and make new creat ures of men...” [ibid ,
164–165]. (e mph a sis added)
“From this it is ce r ta in and evident that if we im agine a Div ine Reality outside of the Hol y
Man i fe s tati ons, it is pure im agin ati on ...” [ibid, 149].
T h at the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence—the Sufi an alo g ue of the Div ine Will can, accord ing to the Su f i
t h inke rs, be man i fe s ted through channels, other than the Proph e ts, namely classed under the category of
the ‘C h o s e n’ or ‘Sa in ts’, is expl i citly stated by the Sufi aut h ors (we will con sider this in more de ta il late r).
As for the point of ob v i ous sim il ar i t y, it con sis ts in the def in i ti on of the func ti on of the Proph e ts, their
purpose and mis si on. The idea, that the Prophet possesses knowl ed ge of the essences of thin gs and bases
h is re l ati onship with hum anity up on this essenti al knowl ed ge (see ab ove) is also part of the Bah a’i teac h-
in g, which can be illu s t rated by the follow ing quotati ons from ‘Abdu’l Bahá :
“Br i efl y, the supreme Man i fe s tati ons of God are aware of the reality of the mys teries of bein gs.
T h e refore, they e s tabl ish laws which are su i table and ad ap ted to the state of the world of man,
for re l i gi on is the essenti al conn ec ti on which pro ce eds from the real i ties of thin gs. The
Man i fe s tati on — t h at is, the Holy Lawgive r— unless He is aware of the real i ties of bein gs, will not
compre h e nd the essenti al conn ec ti on which pro ce eds from the real i ties of thin gs, and He will
ce r ta inly not be able to establ ish a re l i gi on con for m able to the fac ts and su i ted to the cond i ti on s.
The Proph e ts of God, the supreme Man i fe s tati ons, are like skill ed ph ysi ci ans, and the con tin-
gent world is like the body of man ...” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 158]. (e mph a-
sis added)

The Pe rfect Ma n
6 1
“Re l i gi on, then, is the nece s sary conn ec ti on which eman ates from the reality of thin gs; and a s
the supreme Man i fe s tati ons of God are aware of the mys teries of bein gs, therefore, They unde r-
s tand this essenti al conn ec ti on and by this knowl ed ge establ ish the Law of God.” [ibid, 159].
One of the most striking an alo gies is be tween the Bahá’í teac h ing ab out the role of a Man i fe s tati on
in brin ging hum ans to the knowl ed ge of God and the Sufi do c t r ine conce r n ing the sim il ar role of a
Proph e t:
“K now that reun i on with God, the Exalted, is not possible except by follow ing the Proph e ts and
[G o d’s] chosen Ones, peace be up on them.... There is no way for him (m an) to [at ta in un to] the
knowl ed ge of the Tr ue [G o d] but that he would con te mpl ate the creati on (lit.: creati on s) and
become a s sured by it of its Creator, who is the Tr ue [G o d], may He be glor i f i ed and His dom in-
i on be ever exalted ! And [m an will become a s sured of] His un iqueness        and self-sub sis te nce ,
H is knowl ed ge and His might. [Man] w ill not learn be yond this mea sure from His at t r ibute s ,
[def in ed by] an alo gy
, wh ile from the at t r ibutes re l ated to His hol iness he will
know [onl y] that He is not cor p oreal, not te mp oral, not spati al. A ll this is not h ing other than
lo gi cal conc lu si ons made from be h ind a veil. Gu id ance un to Him, howe ve r, is possible, but in
no other way than by His in for m ing [His creati on] ab out His Essence, His at t r ibutes and nam e s
or through His revelation to His servants
and His testimony to them about Himself.
E xalted is He, Who is the true Ma s te r, ab ove [all, in] that the re l i gi ous law should be re veal ed
[not] to eve ryb o d y, and that it should be commun i cated [not] except in succe s si on (lit.: one a fte r
anot h e r) by them who are the Proph e ts and His chosen Ones.... These are the choi cest of the
inh abi tan ts of [the realm of] bein g
. It is incumbent up on the seeker of Tr uth to fol-
low them and be guided by them. To the extent of his follow ing the Proph e ts and His chosen
Ones the rays of the div ine light and God’s mys teries will be re veal ed to him ....
“Prophethood is God’s gi ft. There is no way to ob ta in it. A Prophet is sent from God, the
E xalted, for the direc ti on of the peopl e
and their guid ance
. He is one, wh o
in forms them of His (G o d’s) Essence, His at t r ibutes, His de eds and the recent comm and s
.... The Prophethood has an inner real i t y, which is Sa in ts h i p
. Thus, the
Prophet draws by his Sa in tship the spir i t u al trut hs, cor re s p ond ing to the deg ree of his per-
fec ti on
as God’s chosen, from [G o d], the Exalted, or from an an gel, wh ile by
h is Prophethood he commun i cates to [G o d’s] servan ts wh at he has received from God, the
E xalted, through med i ati on or without med i ati on. He ut te rs this to them. T h is is not possibl e
e xcept through a re l i gi ous law.... As a book, which has the outer and the inner a s p ect, deg re e s
and levels to it.... The outer is wh at can be unde rs tood from the words and be gra s p ed by the
m ind. While the inner [con sis ts in] the mean ing be h ind the noti ons, which are nece s sary for the
con side rati on of the for m e r. T h is marks the bound ary, wh e re minds and bra ins become powe r-
l e s s.... The for m e r, that is the oute r, is for both – common people and speci al. While the mean-
in gs, which are nece s sary for its [unde rs tand in g], is for the speci al. Common people have no
access to it. This is the level of the perfec t. This rank is for the choi cest of all
,
l ike the greatest of [G o d’s] chosen Ones
”[Qaysarí .
— Al-Tir m iz í,
K h at m ... (App e nd ix), p. 491–493].
“The do or of the knowl ed ge of the Ancient of Days being thus clo s ed in the face of all bein gs,
the Source of in f in i te grace, accord ing to His say in g: "His grace hath tran s ce nded all thin gs; My
g race hath encompa s s ed them all" h ath cau s ed those lum inous Gems of Hol iness to app ear out
of the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the hum an te mple, and be made man i fest un to
all men, that they may impart un to the world the mys teries of the unc h an geable Bein g, and te ll
of the sub t l e ties of His imp e r is h able Essence. These sanc ti f i ed Mir rors, these Day-s pr in gs of
ancient glory are one and all the Exp on e n ts on earth of Him Who is the ce n t ral Orb of the un i-
ve rse, its Essence and ultim ate Pur p o s e. From Him pro ce ed their knowl ed ge and powe r; from
H im is de r ived their sove rei g n t y. The beauty of their coun te n ance is but a refl ec ti on of His

Lights of ‘Irf á n
im age, and their re ve l ati on a sign of His deat hless glory. They are the Trea suries of div in e
knowl ed ge, and the Re p o si tories of ce l e s ti al wis dom . T hrough them is tran s m i t ted a grace that
is in f in i te, and by them is re veal ed the light that can never fade” [Bahá’u’ lláh. Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p.
99 –100]. (e mph a sis added)
“K now that the Reality of Div inity or the sub s tance of the Essence of Oneness is pure sanc ti t y
and ab s olute hol in e s s— t h at is to say, it is sanc ti f i ed and exe mpt from all pra is e. The wh ole of
the supreme at t r ibutes of the deg rees of exis te nce, in refe re nce to this pl ane, are only im agin a-
ti on s. It is in v isible, incompre h e n sible, in acce s sible, a pure essence which cannot be de s c r ibed ,
for the Div ine Essence sur rounds all thin gs.... Howe ver far mind may pro g ress, though it may
reach to the fin al deg ree of compre h e n si on, the limit of unde rs tand in g, it be h olds the div in e
signs and at t r ibutes in the world of creati on and not in the world of God. For the essence and
the at t r ibutes of the Lord of Unity are in the hei g h ts of sanc ti t y, and for the minds and unde r-
s tand in gs there is no way to approach that posi ti on. ‘The way is clo s ed, and seeking is forbid-
de n’.... T h e refore, the Reality of the Div inity is hidden from all compre h e n si on, and conceal ed
from the minds of all men. It is ab s olutely imp o s sible to a s ce nd to that pl an e. We see that eve ry-
t h ing which is lower is powe rless to compre h e nd the reality of that which is higher.... Therefore ,
h ow can man, the created, unde rs tand the reality of the pure Essence of the Creator? This pl an e
is un approac h able by the unde rs tand ing; ...Minds are powe rless to compre h e nd God, and the
s ouls become be w ilde red in expl a in ing Him ...” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 146 ,
147]. (e mph a sis added)
“But for this Essence of the essences, the Tr ut hs of trut hs, this Mys te ry of mys teries, there are
refl ec ti ons, auroras, app earances and re s pl e nde ncies in the world of exis te nce. The daw n in g-pl ace
of these spl e ndors, the pl ace of these refl ec ti ons, and the app earance of these man i fe s tati ons are
the Holy Daw n in g-pl aces, the Unive rsal Real i ties and the Div ine Bein gs, Who are the true mir-
rors of the sanc ti f i ed Essence of God. All the perfec ti ons, the boun ties, the spl e ndors wh i c h
come from God are visible and evident in the Reality of the Holy Man i fe s tati ons like the sun
which is re s pl e ndent in a clear pol is h ed mir ror with all its perfec ti ons and boun ties…. Therefore ,
all that the hum an reality knows, dis cove rs and unde rs tands of the names, the at t r ibutes and the
p e r fec ti ons of God refer to these Holy Man i fe s tati on s. There is no access to an y t h ing else... “
[ibid, 147–148]. (e mph a sis added)
“... H is Essence is ab ove all compre h e n si on” [ibid, 148].
“T h is is why it is sa id: ‘A ll that you have dis tin g u is h ed through the illu si on of your im agin ati on
in your subtle m e n tal im ages is but a creati on like un to yours e l f, and re t urns to you’.... It is clear
t h at if we wish to im agine the Reality of Div in i t y, this im agin ati on is the sur rounded, and we
are the sur round ing one; and it is sure that that the one who sur rounds is greater than the sur-
rounded. From this it is ce r ta in and evident that if we im agine a Div ine Reality outside of the
Holy Man i fe s tati ons, it is pure im agin ati on, for there is no way to approach the Reality of
Div inity which is not cut off to us, and all that we im agine is mere supp o si ti on” [ibid, 149].
(e mph a sis added)
“God sent His Proph e ts in to the world to teach and enl i g h ten man, to expl a in to him the mys-
te ry of the Power of the Holy Spirit, to enable him to refl ect the light, and so in his tur n, to be
the source of guid ance to ot h e rs. The Heave nly Book s, the Bible, the Qur’án, and the other Hol y
Wr i tin gs h ave been given by God as guide s in to the pat hs of Div ine vir t ue, love, justi ce and
p eace” [Par is Talk s, 57]. (e mph a sis added)
These pa s sages speak for themselves, highl i g h ting the sim il ar i ties be tween the Bahá’í teac h ing on the
role of a Man i fe s tati on in brin ging to hum ankind knowl ed ge ab out God, incompre h e n sible in His hid-
den Essence, and the Sufi view on the same role of a Proph e t. His role in the spir i t u al educati on of man
is also de s c r ibed in ve ry sim il ar te r m s:
6 2

The Pe rfect Ma n
6 3
“In like mann e r, the Holy Man i fe s tati ons of God are the ce n te rs of the light of real i t y, of the
s ource of mys teries, and of the boun ties of love. They are re s pl e ndent in the world of hear ts and
t h ou g h ts, and shower ete r n al graces up on the world of spir i ts; They give spir i t u al life and are
s h in ing with the light of real i ties and mean in gs. The enl i g h te nment of the world of thou g h t
comes from these ce n te rs of light and sources of mys te r i e s. Wi t h out the bounty of the spl e ndor
and the in s t r uc ti ons of these Holy Bein gs the world of souls and thou g h ts would be opa que dark-
n e s s. Wi t h out the ir refutable teac h in gs of those sources of mys teries the hum an world would
become the pa s t ure of an im al app e ti tes and qu al i ties, the exis te nce of eve ry t h ing would be
unreal, and there would be no true life” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 162].
“But for the ord in ances of the re l i gi ous Law, which come down from the Div ine Pre s e nce, encom-
pa s sing the good of the both worlds, the ac ti ons of each one of them (peopl e), when seiz ed by
lust, would [con sist in] the de sire to oppress his brot h e r, and in claim ing wh at is forbidden for
the grati f i cati on of their basest in s tinc ts. Order would never pre va il in this world and the next....
T h e refore God, the Exalted, chooses in His wis dom an gels, that these may be med i ators
be tween Him and the elect from among the most exce llent [peopl e]
They (an ge l s) in s pire these with the God breat h ed [word], so that they may be Me s s e n ge rs un to
the high and low” [‘A lá- al-Dawla Simn ání .
– Al-Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 489].
The Bahá’í teac h ing ab out Div ine Man i fe s tati ons inc ludes the noti on of cyc l e s:
“Each of the Div ine Man i fe s tati ons has like w ise a cycle, and dur ing the cycle His laws and com-
m andm e n ts pre va il and are perfor m ed. When His cycle is compl e ted by the app earance of a new
Man i fe s tati on, a new cycle begin s. In this way cycles begin, end and are re n e wed, un til a un i-
ve rsal cycle is compl e ted in the world, when imp or tant eve n ts and great occur re nces will take
pl ace which entirely efface eve ry trace and eve ry record of the pa s t; then a new un ive rsal cyc l e
begins in the world, for this un ive rse has no beginn in g... Br i efl y, we say a un ive rsal cycle in the
world of exis te nce signifies a long durati on of time, and innum e rable and incalcul able periods
and epochs. In such a cycle the Man i fe s tati ons app ear with spl e ndor in the realm of the visibl e
un til a great and supreme Man i fe s tati on makes the world the ce n ter of His rad i ance. His app ear-
ance causes the world to at ta in to mat ur i t y, and the exte n si on of His cycle is ve ry great.
Afte rward, other Man i fe s tati ons will ar ise under His shadow, Who accord ing to the needs of the
time will renew ce r ta in comm andm e n ts re l ating to mate r i al que s ti ons and a ffa irs, wh ile re m a in-
ing under His shadow” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 160–161].
A sim il ar idea is expre s s ed in the Sufi writin gs:
“For the Prophets...are the manifestations of God’s Essence from the standpoint of Its Lordship
over the man i fest bein gs and Its Ju s ti ce among them (
). Con s e que n t l y, the Prophethood refe rs exc lu sively to the oute r. All of them (Proph e ts)
par ti ci pate in summon in g, guid ing and gove r n ing the people, and in the other thin gs, which of
n ece s sity are re l ated to Prophethood. Each one of them diffe rs from another in deg re e: [Proph e ts]
of an entire extent of powe rs
, like the inde p e ndent Me s s e n ge rs..., and those with a
l im i ted extent, like the proph e ts of the people of Israe l .... Thus, the Prophethood of a full
c ycle con sis ts of cycles, which are separate and diffe rent in mag n i t ude (
). You have already learnt that the outer does not ob ta in a s sis-
tance, stre n g t h, might, the power to gove r n, knowl ed ge and eve ry t h in g, which pro ce eds out of
the Tr ut h, Who is the Exalted, except by the inner. This is the station of a chosen One
[Qaysarí.
— Al-Tirmizí, Khatm... (App e nd ix), p. 490–491].
T h at the Man i fe s tati ons of God differ in deg ree is also part of the Bahá’í teac h in g:
“K now that the at t r ibutes of perfec ti on, the spl e ndor of the div ine boun ties, and the lights of
in s pirati on are visible and evident in all the Holy Man i fe s tati ons; but the glor i ous Word of God,
C hr ist, and the Greatest Name, Bahá’u’ lláh, are man i fe s tati ons and evide nces which are be yond
.
”

Lights of ‘Irf á n
im agin ati on, for They possess all the perfec ti ons of the former Man i fe s tati ons; and more than
t h at, They possess some perfec ti ons which make the other Man i fe s tati ons de p e ndent up on
T h e m” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 149 –150].
U n til now we have been fo cu sing mostly on the parallels be tween the Bahá’í re l i gi on and Su f ism. Now
it is time to con sider the most essenti al diffe re nces be tween them. As has been already poin ted out ,
unl ike the Bahá’í teac h in g, accord ing to which the Div ine Will is man i fe s ted solely through the Proph e ts
founde rs of re l i gi ons, call ed the Man i fe s tati ons of God, the Mu ˙ amm ad an Essence—the Sufi an alo g ue
of the Div ine Will can, accord ing to the Sufi thinke rs, be man i fe s ted through channels, other than the
Proph e ts, namely classed under the category of the “C h o s e n” or “Sa in ts.” Let us con sider this a s p ect more
c lo s e l y. The Man i fe s tati ons of God as they are de s c r ibed in Bahá’í Wr i tin gs, are a speci al category of
c reated Bein gs.
“Br i efl y, The Holy Man i fe s tati ons have ever be e n, and ever will be, Lum inous Real i ties; no
c h an ge or var i ati on takes pl ace in Their essence. Before dec l ar ing Their man i fe s tati on, They are
silent and quiet like a sleeper, and a fter Their man i fe s tati on, They speak and are illum in ated ,
l ike one who is awake” [‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, p. 85 – 86].
“The daw n in g-pl ace of these spl e ndors, the pl ace of these refl ec ti ons, and the app earance of
these man i fe s tati ons are the Holy Daw n in g-pl aces, the Unive rsal Real i ties and the Div in e
Bein gs, Who are the true mir rors of the sanc ti f i ed Essence of God” [ibid, 147].
“K now that the Holy Man i fe s tati ons, though They have the deg rees of endless perfec ti ons, ye t ,
s p eaking ge n e rall y, have only three stati on s. The first stati on is the ph ysi cal; the second stati on
is the hum an, which is that of the rati on al soul; the third is that of the div ine app earance and
the heave nly spl e ndor.... The second is the stati on of the rati on al soul, which is the hum an real-
i t y. This also is ph e nom e n al, and the Holy Man i fe s tati ons share it with all mankind ....
T h e refore, the reality of prophethood, which is the Word of God and the perfect state of man-
i fe s tati on, did not have any beginn ing and will not have any end; its rising is diffe rent from all
ot h e rs.... Then it is evident that the Man i fe s tati ons possess three cond i ti on s: the ph ysi cal con-
d i ti on, the cond i ti on of the rati on al soul, and the cond i ti on of the div ine app earance and heav-
e nly spl e ndor” [ibid, 151–152]. (e mph a sis added)
“We sa id that the Man i fe s tati ons have three pl an e s. First, the ph ysi cal real i t y, which de p e nd s
up on the body; second, the ind iv idu al real i t y, that is to say, the rati on al soul; third the div in e
app earance, which is the div ine perfec ti ons, the cause of the life of exis te nce, of the educati on
of souls, of the guid ance of people, and of the enl i g h te nment of the con tin gent world…. But t h e
ind iv idu al reality of the Man i fe s tati ons of God is a holy real i t y, and for that rea s on it is sanc-
ti f i ed and, in that which concerns its nat ure and qu al i t y, is d is tin g u is h ed from all other thin gs.
It is l ike the sun .... So other hum an real i ties are those souls wh o, like the mo on, take light from
the sun; but that Holy Reality is lum inous in Him s e l f... We have menti on ed, that the Hol y
Man i fe s tati ons have three pl an e s. The ph ysi cal cond i ti on, the ind iv idu al real i t y, and the ce n te r
of the app earance of perfec ti on .... Other ind iv idu als have the ph ysi cal pl ane, the pl ane of the
rati on al soul—the spirit and the mind ...” [ibid, 154, 155]. (e mph a sis added)
“For these Holy Souls are pure from eve ry sin and sanc ti f i ed from faults.... These Holy Bein gs
are lights, and light does not un i te itself with darkn e s s. They are life, and life and death are not
con founded. They are for guid ance, and guid ance and error cannot be to ge t h e r. They are the
e s s e nce of obed i e nce, and obed i e nce cannot exist with rebe ll i on” [ibid, 170].
“Ve r il y, from the beginn ing that Holy Real i t y... is con s ci ous of the sec ret of exis te nce, and from
the age of childhood signs of greatness app ear and visible in Him” [ibid, 155].
“K now that in fall ibility is of two kind s: essenti al in fall ibility and ac qu ired in fall ibil i t y. In suc h
m anner there is essenti al knowl ed ge and ac qu ired knowl ed ge.... Essenti al in fall ibility is pecul i ar
6 4

The Pe rfect Ma n
6 5
to the supreme Man i fe s tati on .... To epi tom iz e: essenti al in fall ibility be lon gs especi ally to the
supreme Man i fe s tati ons, and ac qu ired in fall ibility is gran ted to eve ry holy soul .... Br i efl y, it is
sa id that the ‘Days pr ing of Re ve l ati on’ is the man i fe s tati on of these words, ‘He doeth wh ats o-
e ver He will e t h’; this cond i ti on is pecul i ar to that Holy Bein g, and ot h e rs have no share of this
e s s e n ti al perfec ti on ... for the Man i fe s tati on ar ises with perfect wis dom ...” [ibid, 171, 172, 173].
T h ough the Su f is de s c r ibe the “Proph e t h o o d” as a speci al gi ft from God, they do not at t r ibute to the
Proph e ts a speci al category among the created bein gs, a category, which is dis tinct from that of hum an s ,
and emph a size their hum an a s p ec t:
“Do not think that this is pecul i ar to the Proph e ts (Me s s e n ge rs). For the qu in te s s e nce of all
hum an s
in [t h eir] inn ate nat ure
is worthy of it
.... A
Prophet is also a hum an —‘Say: I am only a mor tal like you’ [Qur’án 18:110]. Eve ryon e, for wh om
t h is way has op e n ed, we re he to be shown wh at is to the ad van tage of hum anity as a wh ole and
we re he to summon [the peopl e] to wh at he has been show n, this would be call ed a re l i gi ous law,
and him s e l f —a Prophet, wh ile his cond i ti on [w ill be call ed] ‘mu‘jiz a’ (proph e tic mirac l e). We re he
not to apply himself to the exhor tati on of people, he would be call ed ‘a chosen One’, and his con-
d i ti on —‘ k ar ám á t’ (m irac l e s). It is not nece s sary, that to wh om s o e ver this state has been re veal ed ,
s h ould occupy himself with the admon i ti on of the peopl e. For it is within the power of God, the
E xalted, not to occupy him with it, either because the re l i gi ous law of the given time is still new
and there is no need for new exhor tati ons, or because the cond i ti ons are not su i table for an
e x h or tati on ...” [A l- G h az álí .11
. Li t h o g raph y, p. 14].12
“T h e refore God, the Exalted, chooses in His wis dom an gels, that these may be med i ators
be tween Him and the elect from among the most exce llent [peopl e
.
They (an ge l s) in s pire these with the God breat h ed [word], so that they may be Me s s e n ge rs un to
the high and low.... And e ve ryone, who receives con f ir m ati on from God, so that he may ove r-
p ower the people outwardly and [ove rwh e lm] the be l i e ve rs in Him in wardly and be inde p e nde n t
in himself of a hum an like him s e l f
in receiv ing [a re ve l ati on] from
H is Lord, is a Prophet exc lu sive l y, which is not appl i cable except for the hum an
A nd eve ry Prophet is an Apostle, and eve ry Apostle is a Proph e t” [‘A lá- al-Dawla Simn ání .
· – Al-Tir m iz í, Khat m ... (App e nd ix), p. 489].
“‘Pe r fec t’ is a man, who has at ta in ed un to the level of perfec tin g [ot h e rs] (
), who is perfect in the knowl ed ge of the re l i gi ous law
, the mys ti cal Pat h
and its true exp e r i e nce. Because the at ta inment un to [t h is] posi ti on is nece s sary that he may per-
fect others. As Junayd has stated: ‘The end is the return to the first principles/origin
’. As
regards ‘the re t urn to the first pr inci pl e s ,’ it has two mean in gs. The first [con sis ts in] his (mys-
tic’s) return to the basic starting point
and the real ab o de
, [wh e re] with
the eye of in sight he con te mpl ates the beginn ing and the re t ur n
and becomes perfect in
Sa in ts h i p (as God’s chosen One) or Prophethood and Ap o s t l e s h i p, or in all of these (
), and in the con te mpl ati on of the Tr ue [G o d], the Exalted, in
H is man i fe s tati on s. The second mean ing [con sis ts in] his re t urn to wh ate ver exis ts of the pill ars
of the re l i gi ous Law and the mys ti cal Pat h, to [promote] the growth of the people (lit.: creati on s),
so that these may con te mpl ate the Tr uth through the pr ism (lit.: eye) of the plural i t y, [inh e re n t
in] the creation
, as has been pointed out” [Ámulí.
· – Al-
Tirmizí, Khatm... (App e nd ix), p. 505].
It is worth notin g, that ‘becom ing perfect in the Proph e t h o o d’ is expl i citly stated in the pa s sage. The
l at ter de mon s t rates that for the illu s t r i ous Sufi thinke rs (Ámulí here quotes the great Jun ayd Bag hd ádí )13
the Prophethood impl i ed an act of at ta in ing to a ce r ta in level of perfec ti on, which su g ge s ts that this
p e r fec ti on is not inn ate.
Accord ing to the Bahá’í teac h in g, the Man i fe s tati ons of God/founde rs of re l i gi ons, have al ways be e n
and will con tinue to be sent to hum anity at a def in i te in te rval, which is ab out a thou sand years:

Lights of ‘Irf á n
“...the Man i fe s tati ons of His Beauty no beginn ing hath be h e ld, and they will con tinue to the
‘E nd that knoweth no end’” [Bahá’u’ lláh. Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 167].
“They that val i antly lab our in quest of God’s will, when once they re nounced all else but Him,
w ill be so at tac h ed and wedded to that City that a mom e n t’s separati on from it would to them
be un t h ink abl e. They will hearken un to in fall ible pro ofs from the Hyacinth of that a s s e mbl y, and
receive the surest te s timonies from the beauty of its Rose and the melody of its Nightin gal e.
O nce in ab out a thou sand years shall this City be re n e wed and re- ador n ed ...T h at city is non ot h e r
t h an the Word of God re veal ed in eve ry age and dis p e n sati on. In the days of Moses it was the
Pe n tateuc h; in the days of Jesus the Gospel; in the days of Mu ˙ amm ad the Me s s e n ger of God
the Our’án; in this day the Bayán; and in the dis p e n sati on of Him Whom God will make man-
i fest His own Book—the Book un to which all the Books of former Dis p e n sati ons must needs be
refe r red, the Book which standeth amon gst them all tran s ce ndent and supre m e” [ibid, 198 –200].
(e mph a sis added)
The Sufi view on this mat te r, which is no diffe rent from the trad i ti on al Moslem view, is based on the
concept of the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad being the “S eal of the Proph e ts ,” which is unde rs tood as Mu ˙ amm ad
being the last Proph e t. This in te r pre tati on of the expre s si on “S eal of the Proph e ts” or i gin ated in Islam
qu i te earl y. To con sider it here is not our poin t. The founder of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, Bahá’u’ lláh, treats this
subj ect in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. Su ff i ce it to say that, accord ing to the Sufi thinke rs, a fter the Proph e t
Mu ˙ amm ad and the dis con tinu ati on of the cycle of Proph e ts, the Div ine Comm and is expre s s ed sol e l y
t hrough God’s chosen Ones (Sa in ts). These, call ed the “men of the hidde n”
, govern the un i-
ve rse through an un in te r r up ted in v isible hierarchy with the Pole (Quèb) or G h aut h at the top. It is un in-
te r r up ted, because wh e n e ver one of the men in the hierarchy de par ts from his posi ti on, his pl ace is take n
by som eone from the level be low. This is be l i e ved to con tinue un til the rise of the Mahdí, the com in g
of the Hour and the Day of Re sur rec ti on. The par ti cul ar de ta ils re l ated to that hierarchy vary from
aut h or to aut h or, but the ge n e ral idea is the sam e. Let us con sider some ext rac ts from the te xts, wh i c h
illu s t rate it.
“With the te r m in ati on of the Prophethood, which is— b r in ging the re l i gi ous Law, and the con-
c lu si on of its cycle and the app earance of the inner Sa in ts h i p, the posi ti on of the Pole was alto-
gether tran sfe r red to [G o d’s] chosen Ones          . Thus without in te r r up ti on one of these is in
t h is posi ti on (of the Pol e) in order to guard this order and state of thin gs.... The Sa in tship will
be te r m in ated with the man i fe s tati on of the ‘S eal of Sa in ts h i p’, who is the One seal ing the
‘ab s olute Sa in ts h i p.’ Thus, when this cycle (Sa in ts h i p) is also fin is h ed, the com ing of the Hour
w ill become nece s sary...” [Qaysarí.
, p. 34].
“‘The Seal of the Proph e ts’ is the One by wh om God, the Exalted, seal ed the Prophethood. He
is none other than the One, nam e l y —our Proph e t.... Like w ise is the ‘S eal of the Sa in ts’. He is the
One by wh om the we l fare of this world and the next reaches its top perfec ti on, and the order of
the un ive rse will be de s t royed by His death. He is the Mahdí, prom is ed [to app ear] at the end of
tim e” [Ámulí.
, p. 384].
“...God has sa in ts (awl iyá) wh om He has speci ally dis tin g u is h ed by His fr i e ndship and wh om He
has chosen to be the gove r nors of His kin gdom and has marked out to man i fest His ac ti on s and
has pecul i arly favoured with dive rse kinds of miracles (kar ám á t) and has purged of nat ural cor-
r up ti ons and has de l ive red from subj ec ti on to their lower soul and pa s si ons, so that all their
t h ou g h ts are of Him and their in tim acy is with Him alon e. Such have been in past ages and are
now, and shall be herea fter un til the Day of Re sur rec ti on, because God has exalted this (Mo s l e m)
community ab ove all ot h e rs and has prom is ed to pre s e rve the re l i gi on of Mu ˙ amm ad. Inasmuc h
as the trad i ti on al and in te ll ec t u al pro ofs of this re l i gi on are to be found among the div in e s
(‘ul am á), it follows that the visible pro of is to be found among the sa in ts and the elect of God....
God, then, has cau s ed the proph e tic evide nce (burhán-i nab awí) to re m a in down to the pre s e n t
d ay, and has made the sa in ts the means wh e reby it is man i fe s ted, in order that the signs of the
6 6

The Pe rfect Ma n
Tr ut h, and the pro of of Mu ˙ amm ad’s ve racity may con tinue to be closely seen. He has made the
Sa in ts the gove r nors of the un ive rse; they have... become entirely de voted to His bu siness, and
h ave cea s ed to follow their sensu al a ffec ti on s. Through the bl e s sing of their ad vent the ra in fall s
from heave n, and through the purity of their lives pl an ts spr ing up from the ear t h, and throu g h
the purity of their spir i t u al in flue nce the Moslems ga in victories over the unbe l i e ve rs. Amon g
them there are four thou sand, who are conceal ed and do not know one another and are not
aware of the exce ll e nce of their state, but in all circum s tances are hidden from themselves and
from mankind.... But of those who have power to loose and to bind and are off i ce rs of the
Div ine court there are three hundred call ed Akh yár, and forty call ed Abd al, and seven call ed
Ab r ár, and four, call ed Aw t ád, and three, call ed Nu qabá, and one, call ed Quèb or Ghauth. All
these know one another and cannot act save by mut u al con s e n t” [Hujwírí. Kashf al-Mahjúb, p.
212-214].
The idea of the in v isible hierarchy of sa in ts, gove r n ing the world, as we ll as that of this body of sa in ts ,
ac ting as a coll ec tive man i fe s tati on of God’s Comm and on ear t h, is not found in the Bahá’í Wr i tin gs.
On the other hand, though this is not part of the Bahá’í teac h in g, it would be too strong to a s sume that
it goes alto gether aga inst the Bahá’í teac h in gs ei t h e r. For, this hierarc h y, accord ing to the Sufi aut h ors ,
e xis ts only till the app earance of the Mahdí, who is ide n ti f i ed with the Pole (or Pole of Pol e s). Sufi writ-
e rs also de s c r ibe the Mahdí as the “S eal of the Sa in t”’(see ab ove), Who te r m in ates by His man i fe s tati on
the circle of Sa in ts h i p. Accord ing to the Bahá’í teac h in g, the proph ecies ab out the Mahdí we re ful f ill ed
in the Báb. I do not know of any aut h or i tative Bahá’í in te r pre tati on of this subj ect, but in my own opin-
i on, one way to in te r pret this from the Bahá’í standp oint, would be to a s sume that the Báb, Who is the
Mahdí and, therefore, in Sufi te r m inolo gy, is the “S eal of the Sa in ts ,” seal ed or ended by His man i fe s ta-
ti on the circle of Sa in ts h i p.
In conc lu si on we will try to sum up the main sim il ar i ties and diffe re nces be tween the concept of the
“Pe r fect Man” (“Pol e”) in Su f ism and the Bahá’í noti on of the Man i fe s tati on of God. The basic an alo gi e s
can be traced down to the follow ing idea s:
G o d’s Will /C omm and needs an expre s si on. This Will /C omm and con sis ts in the educati on and guid-
ance of hum ankind and the gove r n ing of the world up on spir i t u al pr inci pl e s. This Will /C omm and is
e xpre s s ed through a pers on /p e rs ons, who act as re pre s e n tative s/v i cege re n ts of God on earth. The world
is never left without div ine guid ance. These div ine re pre s e n tatives on earth are both servan ts in re l ati on
to God and Lords in re l ati on to the world. Vi e wed from the standp oint of their essenti al unity they all
m an i fest the same Real i t y, but from the standp oint of their ind iv idu ality each of them app ears under a
ce r ta in name and is charac te r iz ed by ce r ta in qu al i ti e s. All the div ine at t r ibutes are appl i cable to these
Re pre s e n tatives of God and they pl ay a maj or role in brin ging hum anity to the knowl ed ge of God.
The diffe re nces be tween the teac h in gs can be summ ar iz ed as follows:
a) In the Bahá’í teac h ing these div ine re pre s e n tatives, call ed the Man i fe s tati ons of God (G o d’s Will),
are con side red a speci al category of created bein gs, who are sup e r i or to hum ankind in the hierarchy of
c reati on and are endowed with inn ate perfec ti on. While the Su f is lay strong emph a sis on the hum an
a s p ect of the Proph e ts and God’s chosen Ones (see be low), wh o, in their view, at ta in to the spir i t u al
l e vel, which enables them to perfect ot h e rs and promote their spir i t u al grow t h; b) in the Bahá’í teac h in g
the Man i fe s tati ons of God are lim i ted to the Proph e ts— founde rs of re l i gi ons, who are sent down to
hum anity at set in te rval s. In Su f ism the Proph e ts are but a group within a broader class, call ed the Elec t
of God or God’s chosen Ones (Sa in ts), all of wh om (and not just the Proph e ts) serve as channels for the
m an i fe s tati on of the Will of God (G o d’s Comm and); c) in the Bahá’í teac h ing the Man i fe s tati ons of
G o d /the Proph e ts will fore ver con tinue to be sent down to hum ankind, wh ile the Su f is hold the view
t h at their can be no Prophet a fter Mu ˙ amm ad, Who compl e ted the cycle of Prophethood, to be suc-
ce eded by the cycle of Sa in ts h i p. From that point on ward un til the end of time the role of the chann e l s
for the op e rati on of the Div ine Will pa s s ed from the Proph e ts to the Elect of God. These, ac ting with-
in the Mu ˙ amm ad an Law and His dis p e n sati on, govern the world through an in v isible hierarc h y.
6 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
6 8
Note s
1) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s. Coll ec ted and tran s l ated from the Pe rsi an by L. C. Bar n e y. First pocke t-size ed i-
ti on 1984/Re pr in ted 1994. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t. Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
2) Par is Talk s. Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in 1911. London (Pr in ted by The Crom we ll Press, Brou g h ton Gi fford ,
Me lk s h am, Wilts h ire), 1995.
3) A refe re nce to the Pe r fect Man can be seen in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, in which Bahá’u’ lláh says:
· — Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (B o ok of Certi t ude). Re pr in ted from the or i gin al ed i ti on, Egypt, 1934.
Pr in ted with the permis si on of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce (19 June 1997) p. 75], which is in English tran s l ati on a s
follows: “T h is is the si g n i f i cance of the trad i ti on: I am He, Him s e l f, and He is I, mys e l f” [Bahá’u’ lláh. Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. The
B o ok of Certi t ude. Tran s l ated by Shoghi Effe ndi. First pocke t-size ed i ti on 1983. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t. Wilm e t te ,
I ll inois, p. 100].
A.E. Khavari in the ‘Qamu s-i-I qan’ expl a in ing this is sue poin ts out that wh at is impl i ed here is the Pe r fect Man :
[A.E. Khavari. Qamu s-i-I qan, Vol. I, p. 166; A. E. Khavari. C oncord ance to the Book
of Certi t ude. Ab r id ged by H. Vae zi. Publ is h ed by Century Press Pty. Ltd. Bundo ora, Au s t ralia p. 85].
4) The Mean ing of the Glor i ous Qur’án. Te xt and expl an atory tran s l ati on by M. Pi c k t h all. Vol. II. Hyde rab ad-D eccan (I nd i a),
1938.
5) ‘A lá- al-Dawla Simn ání (659/1261–736/1336)—a famous mys tic of the Il-kh an id period. He tur n ed more and more toward
m a in s t ream Sunn ism and a mo de rate kind of Su f is m .
T h is and some other quotati ons are tran s l ated from the or i gin al sources (A rabic te xts), publ is h ed in the app e nd ix to the
Kitáb Khatm al-Awl iyá by al-Tir m iz í — A l-Tir m idí. Kitáb Khatm al-Awl iyá. Édité par Othm an I. Yah ya. Rec h e rches pub-
liées sous la direction de L’Institut De Lettres Orientales De Beyrouth. Tome XIX. Imprimerie Catholique, Beyrouth.
6) Da’ud al-Qaysarí, a follower of Ibn al-‘A rabí and a brill i ant exp ounder of his teac h in g, was a prolific write r. Ve ry little
is known ab out his life, except that he lived in Asia Minor. From the fact that he is often quoted by S.H. Ámulí (see end-
note 7) it can be in fe r red that he lived be tween the time of the great Sufi from And alou sia and the time of Ámulí .
The refe re nce here is made to the Li t h o g raphic ed i ti on from the coll ec ti on of the Oriental Insti t ute of St. Pe te rsburg (Ru s si a)—
.
P ubl is h e r: Mirza Moh am ed Shirazi. Bomb ay, 1300 H. (the lib rary call numbe r: Hd III 22 .)
7) Sayyed Hayd ar Amoli (V I I I / XIV siè c l e). La Philo s ophie Shi’i te. 1. Somme des do c t r ine ésoté r iques (Jâm i’ al- a s r âr) 2.
Tra i té de la conn a isance de l’ê t re (Fî ma’r i fat al-woj ûd). Te xtes publ iés avec une double in t ro duc ti on et index par H.
C orbin et O. Yahia. Te h e ran-Par is, 1969.
S. H. Ámulí, early re pre s e n tative of Imam i te theo s ophy (b orn in 720/1320), a prolific write r. He was an early prop on e n t
of the thesis that Imam i te Shi’ism is ide n ti cal with Su f ism. Ámulí was an early example of a long line of Imam i te thinke rs
who incor p orated the thought of Ibn al-‘A rabí and his follows in to their writin gs.
8) ‘Afíf al-D ín Sul a im án b. ‘A lí b. ‘Abd Alláh b. ‘A lí b. Yás ín Til im s ání, born at T(i)l im s án in 616/1219, a Sufi aut h or of a
number of works who lived in Syria and Asia Minor.
9) See endnote 3 for the full refe re nce.
10) For a more de ta il ed expl an ati on of the Bahá’í teac h ing on the inh e rent dis tinc ti on be tween ord in ary hum an bein gs and
the Man i fe s tati on, see John S. Hatc h e r, “The Doctrine of the ‘Most Great Infall ibil i t y’ in Re l ati on to the ‘Stati on of
Dis tinc ti on,’” The Law of Love Enshr in ed. Selec ted Essays by John Hatcher & Will i am Hatc h e r. George Ron ald. Oxford ,
1996, p. 59 –100.
11) Abú Hám id Mu ˙ amm ad b. Muh amm ad al-Vúsí al- G h az álí (450/1058 –505/1111), outs tand ing theolo gi an, jur ist, or i gin al
t h inke r, mys tic and re l i gi ous refor m e r.
12) The refe re nce here is made to the Li t h o g raphic ed i ti on from the coll ec ti on of the Oriental Insti t ute of St. Pe te rsburg
(Ru s si a)—
. Second ed i ti on [Lakc hn au]. Publ is h e r: Naval Kis h or (the lib rary call numbe r: P_ 35). For in for m ati on
ab out the given lithograph y, refer to O. P. Shcheg lova. Katalog lito g ra f irovann ykh knig na Pe rsid s kom iazyke v sob ran i i
L e n in g rad s ko go otdeleniia Insti t uta vo s tokovedeniia. AN SSSR, c. II, Mo s kva, 1975, p. 453. See also a big por ti on of this
pa s sage in M. Take s h i ta’s tran s l ati on. Ma sataka Take s h i ta. Ibn ‘A rabí ’s Theory of the Pe r fect Man and its Place in the
H is tory of Islamic Thought Insti t ute for the St udy of Lan g u ages and Cult ures of Asia and Afr i ca. St udia Cult urae
I s l am i ca 32. Tokyo, 1987, p. 152–153.
13) Abú -l-Qásim al-Jun ayd al-K h az z áz al-B ag hd ádí (d i ed in 298/910), the lead ing figure of the Bag hd ad school of Su f ism in
IX–X ce n t uries, the highest aut h ority in mys ti cis m, who left be h ind a great number of prom inent dis ci ples; aut h or of
m any treatises on Su f is m .
14) ‘A lí B. ‘U t hm án al-Jullá bí al-Hujwírí, an eminent Su f i, born at Ghaz ní (d i ed in 465/1072 A.D.), aut h or of many book s
of which the Kashf Al-Maujúb—a work treating the lives, teac h in gs and ob s e rvances of the Su f is— is the most wide l y
known and read .
The pa s sage is quoted in R.A. Nichol s on’s tran s l ati on (highl i g h ted by us)—The Kashf Al-Maujúb. The oldest Pe rsi an
Treatise on Lú f i ism by ‘A lí B. ‘U t hm án al-Jullá bí al-Hujwírí. Tran s l ated by R.A. Nichol s on. “E. J. W. Gibb Me mor i al .”
Vol. XVII. Leyden: E. J. Br ill, Impr imerie Oriental e. London: Luz ac & Co, 1911.

The Mystic Cu p
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
by LeRoy Jones
Ve r il y, ve r il y, the dawn of a new Day has broken. The prom is ed One is enthron ed in the
h ear ts of men. In His hand He holds the mys tic cup, the chal i ce of immor tal i t y. Blessed
are they who dr ink therefrom !1
—The Báb to Mullá Óu sayn and Mullá ‘A lí
A
fter years of waiting and searching for the Promised One, Mullá Óusayn found his heart’s desire—a
young merchant who called Himself the Báb. In their first meeting the Báb invited Mullá Óusayn
to His residence and revealed His mission with proofs and testimonies, which Mullá Óusayn
painstakingly scrutinized. But there was more. Mullá Óusayn described his encounter with the Báb:
I sat spellb ound by His ut te rance, obl iv i ous of time and of those who awa i ted me...the call of
the Mu’adhdh-in, summon ing the fa i t h ful to their mor n ing praye r, awake n ed me from the state
of ec s tasy in to which I seemed to have fallen. All the delight, all the in effable glories, which the
A lmighty has recoun ted in His Book as the pr i celess possessi ons of the people of Parad is e — t h e s e
I seemed to be exp e r i e ncing that night.2
He nce, Mullá Óu sayn de pi c ted his state of cap tivated mys ti cal ec s ta s y. Wi t h in days of this in i ti al meet-
ing Mullá Óu sayn and fe llow seeker Mullá ‘A lí re t ur n ed to the house of the Báb, wh e rein the Báb dis-
c lo s ed His mis si on to Mullá ‘A lí who became His second followe r. Howe ve r, this second meeting was dif-
fe re n t. Accord ing to Nabíl, “... all arg ument had been set a side and not h ing but the spirit of in tense ado-
rati on and ardent fe llowship pre va il ed .”3 The words from the op e n ing quote we re re veal ed at this time in
an at mo s ph e re that was “v i tal iz ed by that ce l e s ti al pote ncy which eman ated from His in s pired ut te rance.
Eve ry t h ing in that ro om seemed to be vib rating with this te s timon y.”4 E n t hrall ed, these two chosen ap o s-
tles re s p onded to this div ine summons to par take of the “m ys tic cup.”
Like w ise fifteen more souls a fter Mullá Óu sayn and Mullá ‘A lí at ta in ed the pre s e nce of the Báb and
we re dec l ared “L e t te rs of the Liv in g.” One more re m a in ed to compl e te the number of these first fa i t h ful
followe rs. The soon-to -be ei g h teenth Letter of the Liv in g, Quddus, approac h ed Mullá Óu sayn and pl ead-
ed to at ta in the pre s e nce of the Báb. Mullá Óu sayn re s t ra in ed him, te ll ing Quddus the time was not right.
Ha s te n ing to the Báb, Mullá Óu sayn de s c r ibed Quddu s’ persis te nce. The Báb re pl i ed, “Marvel not at his
s t ran ge be h av i our. We have in the world of the spirit been commun ing with that youth. We know him
alread y.”5 Nabíl a s ked, “… h ad not the mys tic bond of the spirit linked their souls to ge t h e r? ”6 S h or t l y
t h e rea fter Nabíl ob s e rved the Báb in prayer before the rising sun, “He seemed to be addre s sin g, in mys-
tic lan g u age, that shin ing lum in ary, and to be entrusting it with His message of year n ing and love to
H is conceal ed Be loved .”7 T hus we see the in tensely mys ti cal nat ure of the op e n ing days of the Bábí Fa i t h .
O ver much of the last twe n t y-f ive years as a Bahá’í, I have read pa s sages such as the ab ove account of
the first Bábís and wonde red, “W h at has happ e n ed? Why do we now seem so far re moved from these
de e ply spir i t u al ro ots?” Adm i t tedl y, these first followe rs we re exp o s ed to a tre m e ndous re l ease of spir i-
t u al powe r. Howe ve r, a fter dis cove r ing more and more of the Bahá’í writin gs that in vol ve the mys ti cal ,
I became con v inced that this is a greatly ove rlo oked area of the Bahá’í Faith. This is sue becomes par ti c-
ul arly poi g n ant when we con sider that the Bahá’í Faith has, in this write r’s estim ati on, one of the mo s t
p owe r fully mov ing and exqu isi tely beauti ful bodies of mys ti cal works ever pro duced. Bahá’u’ lláh, in the
Ki t á b -i-ˆqán re p eatedly pulses in to beauti ful and poetic re ve l ati ons of mys tic real i t y. In the H idde n
6 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Word s s pir i t u al nu g get a fter spir i t u al nu g get mightily re veals the pre v i ously hidden “m ys tic and won-
drous Br ide.”
8 The ardent seeker quickly feels the mag n i f i ce nce and charm of The Seven Vall e ys. Eve n
the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s alludes to the mys tic nat ure of div ine law as it un s eals the “c h oi ce Wine with the fin-
ge rs of might and powe r.”
The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, it seeks to clarify from Bahá’í scripture wh at con s ti t ute s
the fund am e n tals of the mys ti cal exp e r i e nce and, second, to show that an overt, sys te m atic fo cus on
m ys ti cism within this Bahá’í con te xt is essenti al if the Bahá’í Faith is to make si g n i f i cant pro g ress with
p e rs on al tran sfor m ati on as we ll as mov ing toward the goal of a spir i t u ally un i f i ed world. This is not an
at te mpt to compare commonly held views of mys ti cism to the Bahá’í Fa i t h, nor is it in any manner an
e ndeavor to def ine wh at might be con side red a compre h e n sive theolo gy of Bahá’í mys ti cism. Rather this
paper fo cuses on the mys ti cal exp e r i e nce its e l f. This exp e r i e nce is best de s c r ibed as spir i t u al commu-
n i on with the Man i fe s tati on of God and this commun i on is at the heart of the tran sfor m ati on pro ce s s.
I will at te mpt to use the Bahá’í writin gs to pa int in broad brushs t rokes a ge n e ral pi c t ure of the mys ti-
cal exp e r i e nce and the impl i cati ons this ra ises regard ing the fut ure of the Bahá’í Faith. This dis cu s si on
offe rs a fund am e n tal unde rs tand ing of the mys ti cal exp e r i e nce in the hope that inc rea sing numbe rs of
B ahá’ís will engage in a more de ta il ed and serious pursuit of wh at is in vol ved in mys ti cal endeavor. Eve n
t h ough this paper will ra ise many more que s ti ons regard ing the mys ti cal exp e r i e nce and its re l ati on to
B ahá’í theolo gy and community life than it an s we rs, one of its maj or purposes is to ra ise those ve ry
que s ti on s.
A brief clar i f i cati on of a few of the ways that we encoun ter the word m ys tic in the Bahá’í writin gs
m ay be pr ude n t. We often see the word m ys tic u s ed, but the words m ys ti cal and m ys ti cism are rare l y
u s ed. We must al ways keep in mind that the ve ry nat ure of this subj ect defies def in i ti on — t h at which is
m ys tic is mys te r i ous, diff i cult to unde rs tand, in effabl e. The Gu ard i an uses the term “m ys tic fe e l in g” and
de s c r ibes it as the exp e r i e nce “t h at un i tes man with God” and that this “s pir i t u al commun i on” is the
“core of re l i gi on” and is “best ac h i e ved through praye r.”10 I use this as the main point of refe re nce for all
other uses of the word. Most of us can re l ate to the sense of unity and conn ec tedness, wonder and awe
t h at occurs dur ing praye r. Even though this fe e l ing varies in in te n sity it is common and nearly un ive r-
sal. Since this exp e r i e nce is the core of re l i gi on it makes sense to use this pa s sage as a sort of touc hs ton e
for other uses and unde rs tand in gs of the word .
When Shoghi Effe ndi writes of a mys tic Source, he notes a Source that is mys te r i ou s.11 We cannot
unde rs tand the nat ure of this Source, but it may be that since the word is capi tal iz ed it si g n i f i e s
B ahá’u’ lláh in one of His forms and we might a s sume that this is the spir i t u al Source with which we
commune through praye r. Bahá’u’ lláh writes of a “m ys tic tran sfor m ati on .”12 T h is tran sfor m ati on leads to
an ec s tasy and a year n ing for God, which once aga in su g ge s ts deep spir i t u al commun i on with the
Man i fe s tati on. Howe ve r, this level of commun i on can lead to a mys tic awareness or “t r ue knowl ed ge”13
t h at brin gs us to a var i ati on in mean ing but is likely linked to the spir i t u al commun i on of which the
Gu ard i an wrote. These shades of mean ing will hop efully become clearer through the course of this pap e r.
Of course, it would be best to exam ine the or i gin al Pe rsi an and Arabic words, but that is perh aps be yond
the scope of this paper and is ce r ta inly be yond the aut h or’s cur rent knowl ed ge. It is worth notin g, how-
e ve r, that when writing in English the Gu ard i an used the word in var i ous ways, which are helpful to us
in elucid ating its mean in gs.
One should also keep in mind that commun i on with the Man i fe s tati on is one of the ways we come to
know God. Bahá’u’ lláh says, “The supreme cause for creating the world and all that is therein is for man
to know God.”14 A letter written on be h alf of the Gu ard i an re l ates this to the mys ti cal, “T h e re is, there-
fore, only one way to God and that is through the real iz ati on of his Man i fe s tati on or Prophet in that
age…. The mys tic path that the traveler should follow is therefore to the Proph e t. By com ing in con tac t
with Him will he ob ta in peace.”15 In another letter he re l ates this to commun i on, “He [Man i fe s tati on]... is
all we can ever know of...God. Therefore, we address ours e l ves in prayer and thought to Him, or throu g h
H im to that Infin i te Essence be h ind and be yond Him .”16
Since this paper is written by a We s terner to a We s tern aud i e nce, any state m e n ts made regard in g
B ahá’ís only applies to the West, and the United States in par ti cul ar. Even though the multi pl i city of per-
7 0

The Mystic Cu p
s p ec tives within the Bahá’í Faith prec ludes simple ge n e ral iz ati on, there is a te nde ncy among Bahá’ís in
the U. S. to have little unde rs tand ing of the subj ec t. This prop e n sity is coupl ed with the misappropr i ati on
of the word in ge n e ral soci e t y, which te nds to lo ok up on the mys ti cal as some mys te r i ous or paranor m al
ph e nom e non with no nece s sary conn ec ti on to re l i gi on. Also, some Bahá’ís dis m iss mys ti cism as ris ky,
p s ychic tinke r ing with the spir i t u al realm or as a dan ge rous pursuit of an elite and exc lu sive knowl ed ge.
In add i ti on, among Bahá’ís there is some te nde ncy to a s s o ci ate the word m ys ti cism to the many school s
of ea s tern mys ti cism. Even though there are some sim il ar i ties, there is a si g n i f i cant diffe re nce be twe e n
wh at the Bahá’í scriptures por t ray and wh at these many mys ti cal dis ci pl ines de pict as mys ti cal endeav-
or. These diffe re nces would make fa s cin ating and imp or tant studies, howe ve r, such work is be yond the
reach of this pap e r. All of these is sues are justi f i able concerns and they ra ise imp or tant que s ti on s.
Howe ve r, it may be that we are allow ing exce s sive cauti on in these areas to paralyze imp or tant effor ts
w i t h in the arena of legi tim ate mys ti cal endeavor.
C on s e que n t l y, among we s tern Bahá’ís we see a ge n e ral lack of awareness and little in t u i tive sense for
wh at con s ti t utes the mys ti cal. Even though the si t u ati on has improved in recent years, even many de e p-
e n ed Bahá’ís have little idea wh at the word mean s. A compre h e n si on of the te r m inolo gy is not nece s sary
for a mys ti cal conn ec ti on with Bahá’u’ lláh. Howe ve r, the problem is more compl e x. Seena Fazel, in his
ar ticle, I n te r re l i gi ous Di alo g ue and the Bahá’í Fa i t h, arg ues that the Bahá’ís could learn much from the
m ys ti cal in te n sity of other re l i gi on s. Mr. Fazel quotes a non-B ahá’í an t hrop olo gist wh o, a fter ob s e rv in g
a serv i ce at the Bahá’í House of Worship in Wilm e t te noted :
W h at was read from each te xt de s t royed the par ti cul arity of the trad i ti on from which it wa s
draw n, leav in g, seemin g l y, but ban al pl ati t ude s.17
T h e re are many de e ply spir i t u al de voti ons in the Bahá’í Fa i t h, howe ve r, we should not ignore this per-
ce p ti on par ti cul arly when noting another ob s e rvati on of Mr. Faz e l’s regard ing Bahá’í schol ar Jac que s
C h oul eur, who is conce r n ed that Bahá’ís in the West are re ti cent in regard to the mys ti cal and commu-
nity a s p ec ts, wh ile prefe r r ing a fo cus on the soci al teac h in gs.18 M r. Choul eur notes those Bahá’ís who are
working pr im ar ily for the soci al teac h in gs:
The tran sf i g urati on of the ear t hly world by the impl e m e n tati on of the Bahá’í pr inci ples may be
for them a doubtless exhil arating obj ec tive, but qu i te incompl e te, in su ff i cient if it is de pr ived
of mys ti cism and con te mpl ati on .19
C ompl e m e n ting this emph a sis on soci al concerns, the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce noted the in f ilt ra-
ti on of secul ar te nde ncies in our community in its May 19, 1994 letter to the U. S. Nati on al Spir i t u al
A s s e mbl y.20 A lt h ough the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce dis cu s s ed the secul ar nat ure of Bahá’í adm in is t ra-
ti on in its re l ati onship to the ge n e ral Bahá’í commun i t y, it is likely these te nde ncies filter in to all area s
of Bahá’í life. Promoting soci al chan ge as we ll as many other Bahá’í goals can ea sily become mostly sec-
ul ar ente r pr is e s. The Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce quoted the Gu ard i an in the May 19th letter as follows:
The fr i e nds must never mis take the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on for an end in its e l f. It is merely the
in s t r ument of the s pirit of the Fa i t h. This Cau s e... is de si g n ed to be n efit the entire hum an race ,
and the only way it can do this is to reform the community life of mankind, as we ll as seekin g
to rege n e rate the ind iv idu al .21 [e mph a sis min e]
A l i g n ing our pers on al lives as we ll as our soci al and adm in is t rative effor ts with this “s pirit of the
Fa i t h” should be the paramount goal of all Bahá’ís. In our exce s sively mate r i al is tic society it is diff i cult
to main ta in a con s tant fo cus on the spir i t u al, which makes it easy to get caught up in the tre nds and
te nde ncies of the broad cult ure. To ove rcome these effec ts a deep mys ti cal re l ati onship with Bahá’u’ lláh
is essenti al. This paper will show that the mys ti cal is in e xt r i cably linked to this “s pirit of the Fa i t h” and
t h at the Bahá’í Faith is first and fore most mys ti cal. The success of our effor ts in teac h in g, adm in is t ra-
ti on, community bu ild in g, and soci al is sues are con tin gent on de ve loping the mys tic fe e l in g. The spir i-
t u al energy needed for pers on al and glob al tran sfor m ati on is de p e ndent on both an ind iv idu al and col-
l ec tive mys ti cal conn ec ti on to Bahá’u’ lláh .
7 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The an alo gy of the mys tic cup, the chal i ce of immor tality of which the Báb spoke, is a fine thread
woven through the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh .
22 In the H idden Word s, Bahá’u’ lláh inci tes, “ Take...the chal-
i ce of immor tal life...t h at thou mayest hearken un to the mys tic voi ce ,”
23 and “s weet is the holy ec s tasy if
t h ou dr inkest of the mys tic chal i ce.”
24 In the Tablet of Car m e l, even Carmel is in s t r uc ted, “S eize thou
the Chal i ce of Immor tal i t y... and give thanks un to Him, in a s much as He...t ran s muted thy grief in to bl is s-
ful joy.”
25 Pronounce m e n ts regard ing the cup of ce r ti t ude, the mys tic wine, the ce l e s ti al draught, and the
draught of love are spr ink l ed throu g h out the sac red te xts. These and many other sim il ar phrases unde r-
lie the imp or tance of this symb olic and mys ti cal ac ti on — par taking of the wine of ce r ti t ude that “t ran s-
mutheth the souls of men.”
B ahá’u’ lláh in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, in de s c r ibing the early followe rs of a pre v i ous Man i fe s tati on, is like-
ly speaking of the same mys tic cup as was the Báb, which endowed its par take rs “with the grace of a new
l i fe”:
These same people, though wrapt in...veils of limitation...as soon as they drank the immortal
draught, from the cup of certitude, at the hand of the Manifestation of the All-Glorious, were so
transformed that they would renounce for His sake their kindred, their substance, their lives, their
beliefs, yea, all else save God! So overpowering was their yearning for God, so uplifting their
transports of ecstatic delight, that the world and all that is therein faded before their eyes into
nothingness.26
D r inking of the mys tic cup, the cup of ce r ti t ude, wrought a dram atic tran sfor m ati on in the lives of
these early be l i e ve rs. Bahá’u’ lláh calls it a “m ys tic tran sfor m ati on” as He con tinue s:
It is evident that not h ing short of this mys tic tran sfor m ati on could cause such spirit and be h av-
i our, so ut te rly unl ike their pre v i ous habi ts and mann e rs, to be made man i fest in the world of
bein g. For their agi tati on was tur n ed in to peace, their doubt in to ce r ti t ude, their tim idity in to
courage. Such is the pote ncy of the Div ine Elixir, wh i c h, swift as the tw ink l ing of an eye, tran s-
muteth the souls of men!27
The Div ine Elixir, this mys ti cal draught, effec ted a rad i cal tran sfor m ati on —an ove r p owe r ing year n in g
for God and a dram atic chan ge in their “habi ts and mann e rs.” Can we in to d ay’s world also par take of
the heave nly elixir? Or was it only ava il able to followe rs at the time of the Man i fe s tati on — p eople wh o
a s s o ci ated with Him wh ile He was on ear t h —a period when great feats and strong endeavor was essen-
ti al ?
Pe rh aps the pote ncy of the mys tic draught was stron ger at the time of the Báb’s and Bahá’u’ lláh’s ph ys-
i cal pre s e nce. Howe ve r, Shoghi Effe ndi makes clear that this mys tic power is al ways ava il abl e:
T h at the cause a s s o ci ated with the name of Bahá’u’ lláh fe eds itself up on those hidden spr in gs of
ce l e s ti al strength which no force of hum an pers on al i t y, wh ate ver its glamour, can re pl ace; that
i ts re l i ance is s olely up on that mys tic Source with which no worldly ad van tage, be it wealt h, fam e
or lear n ing can compare; that it propagates itself by ways mys te r i ous and ut te rly at var i ance with
the stand ards acce p ted by the ge n e rality of mankind, will, if not already apparent, becom e
inc rea singly man i fe s t as it forges ah ead towards fresh con que s ts in its struggle for the spir i t u al
rege n e rati on of mankind. [e mph a sis min e]
Not only are these hidden spr in gs of mys tic power al ways ava il able, but, their effec ts will “becom e
inc rea singly man i fe s t.” Apparently this mys ti cal force, or at least its effec ts, will in te n sify with time and
not dim in ish with Bahá’u’ lláh’s ph ysi cal de par t ure. Most imp or tan t l y, the Gu ard i an in forms us that the
Cause relies “s olely up on that mys tic Source.”
Even the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce has encouraged Bahá’ís to de ve lop the “m ys tic fe e l in g” as rece n t-
ly as the Rid ván 150 letter to the Bahá’ís of the World :
No less essential to nourishing this vitality [of faith] is the cultivation of a sense of spirituality,
that mystic feeling which unites the individual with God and is achieved through meditation and
prayer.29
7 2

The Mystic Cu p
The Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce calls the mys tic fe e l ing “a sense of spir i t u al i t y”—s om e t h ing we exp e r i-
e nce. They use the word cultivate as though it is som e t h ing we must care for, nur t ure and de ve lop.
In the follow ing letter to an ind iv idu al be l i e ve r, the Gu ard i an pl aced these same ideas in the con te xt
of a mate r i al is tic soci e t y.
…[t]he spirit of the age, taken on the wh ole, is ir re l i gi ou s. Man’s out lo ok up on life is too crude
and mate r i al is tic to enable him to elevate himself in to the higher realms of spir i t. It is this con-
d i ti on, so sadly morbid, in to which society has fall e n, that re l i gi on seeks to improve and tran s-
form. For the core of re l i gi ous faith is that mys tic fe e l ing which un i tes man with God.30
In the ab ove quote the Gu ard i an stated that the cause relies “s olely on that Mys tic source”31 and here
he says the mys tic fe e l ing is the “core of re l i gi ous fa i t h .” Apparently there is not h ing more fund am e n tal
and imp or tant than de ve loping the mys ti cal. This imp or tance is unde rs cored by Shoghi Effe nd i’s a s s e r-
ti on that the way we can ove rcome the mate r i al is tic cond i ti on of society is through re l i gi on. Re l i gi on
seeks to “t ran sfor m” this cond i ti on. Since the core of re l i gi on is the “m ys tic fe e l in g” we must a s sume that
the mys tic fe e l ing is at the heart of the tran sfor m ing pro cess and that tran sfor m ati on is in some way an
e l e vati on to a higher spir i t u al level, “the higher realms of spir i t” that our present crudeness proh ibi ts us
from exp e r i e ncin g. Shoghi Effe ndi pro ce eds by giv ing some evide nce as to wh at the mys tic fe e l ing is.
T h is state of spir i t u al commun i on can be brought ab out and main ta in ed by means of med i ta-
ti on and praye r. And this is the rea s on why Bahá’u’ lláh has so much stre s s ed the imp or tance of
wors h i p. It is not su ff i cient for a be l i e ver to merely accept and ob s e rve the teac h in gs. He should ,
in add i ti on, cultivate the sense of spir i t u al i t y, which he can ac qu ire chiefly by means of praye r.32
The Gu ard i an de pi c ts the mys tic fe e l ing as “s pir i t u al commun i on” and as “a sense of spir i t u al i t y” and
p e rh aps as “wors h i p.” After de s c r ibing the mys tic fe e l ing as the core of re l i gi on Shoghi Effe ndi now
e xpl a ins that, “It is not su ff i cient for a be l i e ver to merely accept and ob s e rve the teac h in gs.” Be l i ef and
ac ti on are not enough. Bahá’u’ lláh rein forces this concept in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán by notin g, “One hour’s
refl ec ti on is prefe rable to seventy years of pi ous wors h i p.”33 One must be in touch with the mys ti cal core
t hrough “s pir i t u al commun i on” and by cultivating a “sense of spir i t u al i t y.”
Ad ib Tah e r z ade h, dur ing a talk at the Bahá’í House of Worship in Wilm e t te, Ill inois, sa id, “Teac h in g
is not the problem. The problem is that we must de ve lop a love for Bahá’u’ lláh .”34 W h at is a love for
B ahá’u’ lláh? The follow ing por ti on of a letter ad v ising a Local Spir i t u al Assembl y, written on be h alf of
Shoghi Effe nd i, helps to clarify this:
[ He]... s h ould study more de e ply the teac h in gs, and med i tate on wh at he stud i e s. We liken God to
the Sun, which gives us all our life. So the Spirit of God reaches us through the Souls of the
Man i fe s tati on s. We must learn to commune with Their Souls, and this is wh at the Mar t y rs
s e e m ed to have done, and wh at brought them such ec s tasy of joy that life became not h in g. T h is
is the true mys ti cis m, and the sec ret, inner mean ing of life which hum anity has at present, dr i ft-
ed so far from.
35 [e mph a sis min e]
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ties this commun i on with the souls of the man i fe s tati ons to love”:
…dr ink deep of the m ys tic cup of heave nly love and know the rap t ure of bein g drawn ever clo s-
er un to the Realm of the All- G lor i ou s.
36 [e mph a sis min e]
T hrough this true mys ti cis m, commun ing with the soul of the Man i fe s tati on, we dr ink de e ply of heav-
e nly love, which draws us closer and closer to our Be loved. Mr. Tah e r z adeh also sa id that once we estab-
l ish this love for Bahá’u’ lláh, teac h ing will be no probl e m — we would be un able to keep our mout hs shut.37
Like w ise, effec tive adm in is t rati on, strong commun i ties and all other Bahá’í goals will be more at ta in-
abl e. Re t ur n ing to the pre v i ous letter of Shoghi Effe ndi we see this idea rein forced :
The Bahá’í Fa i t h, like all other Div ine re l i gi ons, is thus fund am e n tally mys tic in charac te r. Its
c h i ef goal is the de ve lopment of the ind iv idu al and soci e t y, through the ac qu isi ti on of spir i t u al
v ir t ues and powe rs. It is the soul of man that has first to be fed. And this spir i t u al nour is hm e n t
7 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
prayer can best prov ide. Laws and in s ti t uti ons, as viewed by Bahá’u’ lláh, can become reall y
effec tive only when our inner spir i t u al life has been perfec ted and tran sfor m ed. Otherw ise re l i-
gi on will dege n e rate in to a mere organ iz ati on, and become a dead thin g.
To avoid lifeless re l i gi on we must de ve lop its mys tic charac te r. Tran sfor m ati on at ta in ed through the
nour is hment of spir i t u al commun i on ge n e rates spir i t u al vir t ues and powe rs. Our inner life, our mys ti c
l i fe, must be perfec ted and tran sfor m ed. Ab ove, Bahá’u’ lláh noted a “m ys tic tran sfor m ati on .” The
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce further dis cusses this concept of tran sfor m ati on :
It is not enough to pro c l a im the Bahá’í message, essenti al as that is. It is not enough to expand
the rolls of Bahá’í membe rs h i p, vital as that is. Souls must be tran sfor m ed, commun i ties there-
by con s ol id ated, new mo dels of life thus at ta in ed. Tran sfor m ati on is the essenti al purpose of the
Cause of Bahá’u’ lláh, but it lies in the will and effort of the ind iv idu al to ac h i e ve it in obed i-
e nce to the Cove n an t.39 [e mph a sis min e]
W h at an in t r i g u ing re l ati onship which exis ts be tween the “m ys tic fe e l in g” and tran sfor m ati on! As the
m ys tic fe e l ing is the core of re l i gi ous faith we see that tran sfor m ati on is “the essenti al purpose of the
Cau s e.” One is de s c r ibed as the core, the other as the “e s s e n ti al pur p o s e.” Pre v i ously we saw the Gu ard i an
note that re l i gi on seeks to tran sform our mate r i al is tic cond i ti on through its mys tic core.40
Tran sfor m ati on through the “t r ue mys ti cis m”—commun ing with the souls of the man i fe s tati ons by
d we ll ing in the love of God—is our real goal. How imp or tant for us to further our unde rs tand ing of the
re l ati onship be tween these two fund am e n tal s— m ys ti cism and tran sfor m ati on !
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá sheds further light on the re l ati onship be tween Bahá’í mys ti cism and rege n e rati on :
I beg of God to strengthen these spir i t u al bonds as day followeth day, and make this m ys tic on e-
ness to shine ever more brightly, un til at last all shall be as tro ops mars h al ed to gether be n eat h
the banner of the Cove n ant within the shelte r ing shade of the Word of God; that they may strive
with all their might un til un ive rsal fe llows h i p, close and war m, and un alloyed love, and spir i-
t u al re l ati onships, will conn ect all the hear ts of the world. Then will all hum ankind, because of
t h is fresh and daz z l ing boun t y, be gat h e red in a single hom e l and. Then will con flict and dis-
s e n si on van ish from the face of the ear t h, then will mankind be cradl ed in love for the beaut y
of the All- G lor i ou s.41 [e mph a sis min e]
Noti ce that the Ma s ter expl a ins that “s pir i t u al bond s” will strengthen to make a mys tic oneness shin e.
A l s o, fe llows h i p, love, and spir i t u al re l ati onships will conn ect all the hear ts of the world. Only a fter all
the hear ts are conn ec ted with spir i t u al bonds that lead to a mys tic on e n e s s w ill hum ankind at ta in to true
p eace and har mon y. Clearl y, the spir i t u al heart is ti ed to the mys ti cal. A deeper unde rs tand ing of wh at
is meant by “hear t” will enh ance our unde rs tand ing of the mys ti cal pro ce s s.
B ahá’u’ lláh is unm is tak able on the imp or tance of the hear t. He says, “My first counsel is this: Po s s e s s
a pure, kindly and rad i ant hear t...”
42 Like w ise, in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán when Bahá’u’ lláh addresses the true
s e e ke r, who “must, before all else, cleanse and purify his hear t.”
Before all pr i or i ties we must fo cus on the hear t. After re que s ting that we cleanse our heart Bahá’u’ lláh
refe rs to the heart as, “the seat of the re ve l ati on of the inner mys teries of God.” He then urges us to
purge the breast [hear t], “which is the sanc t u ary of the abid ing love of the be loved” and then to “sanc-
ti f y” on e’s soul .”
The spir i t u al heart is the seat of the re ve l ati on of inner mys te r i e s—the pl ace we ga in true spir i t u al
v isi on. It is the sanc t u ary of love and if not ide n ti cal to the soul is in e xt r i cably linked to it—the lo cu s
of the soul—the point wh e re true spir i t u al in sight and the love of God can abide. The heart is the chan-
n e l
45 be tween the spir i t u al and mate r i al world. The tar n is h ed heart, therefore, cannot refl ect the glory of
G o d .
After admon is h ing us to cleanse our hear ts, Bahá’u’ lláh de s c r ibes the re sults of a pure hear t. When we
h ave truly kindl ed a spirit of search through in tense striv ing and de voti on and reac h ed a state of “fe r-
7 4

The Mystic Cu p
v id love, of rap t ure, and ec s ta s y” within the heart, we will at ta in a new level of aware n e s s. Then will
“the darkness of error be dis p e ll ed, the mis ts of doub ts and misgiv in gs be dis si pated, and the lights of
knowl ed ge and ce r ti t ude enve lop his bein g. At that hour will the mys tic He rald, bear ing the joy ful tid-
in gs of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God re s pl e ndent as the mor n, and, through the trum-
p e tblast of knowl ed ge, will awaken the heart, the soul, and the spirit from the slumber of neg l i ge nce.
Then will the man i fold favours and out p our ing grace of the holy and eve rl a s ting Spirit con fer such new
l i fe up on the seeker that he will find himself endowed with a new eye, a new ear, a new heart, and a new
m ind .”
The clean sing pro cess leads to an awake n in g. Bahá’u’ lláh as the mys tic He rald gives us “a new eye, a
new ear, a new heart and a new mind .” What are these new faculti e s? Re t ur n ing to the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán:
It is incumbent up on thee, by the permis si on of God, to cleanse the eye of thine heart from the
t h in gs of the world, that thou mayest real ize the in f in i t ude of div ine knowl ed ge, and maye s t
be h old Tr uth so clearly that thou wilt need no pro of to de mon s t rate His real i t y, nor any evide nce
to bear witness un to His te s timon y.47
In the op e n ing words of the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán it says we must sanc tify and cleanse our eye s.48 In this pa s-
sage Bahá’u’ lláh speaks of clean sing the eye of “t h ine hear t”—c l eanse the spir i t u al eye and then with that
“new eye” we will be h old Tr uth clearl y. So clearly that one will need no pro of or evide nce —our spir i t u-
al sight will be so acute that it will pass be yond the realm of words and lo gi c— we will simply see.
In fact, at another pl ace in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán B ahá’u’ lláh note s:
When the stream of ut te rance reac h ed this stage, We be h e ld, and lo! the sweet savours of God
we re being wa fted from the days pr ing of Re ve l ati on, and the mor n ing breeze was blow ing out
of the Sheba of the Ete r n al. Its tid in gs rej oi ced anew the heart, and impar ted imm ea surable glad-
ness to the soul. It made all thin gs new, and brought unnumbe red and in e s tim able gi fts from the
unknowable Fr i e nd. The robe of hum an pra ise can never hope to match Its noble stat ure, and Its
s h in ing figure the mantle of ut te rance can never fit. Wi t h out word It un foldeth the inner mys-
teries, and without speech It re vealeth the sec re ts of the div ine say in gs.49
More than likely the stream of ut te rance is the never end ing Word of God that is con tinu ally re n e wed .
T h is “s t ream of ut te rance” is able to un fold the mys teries without words and re veal the div ine say in gs
w i t h out speech. “Hum an pra is e” cannot de s c r ibe this stream of Re ve l ati on, nor can ut te rance fit its
s tat ure. Wi t h out Words wh at inner mys teries or div ine say in gs can be re veal ed? What does this mean ?
W h at kind of ut te rance de s c r ibes without ut te rance? What words are re veal ed without word s? At firs t
g l ance it app ears as some kind of circul ar gibbe r ish. What is Bahá’u’ lláh say in g?
To help an s wer these que s ti ons let us exam ine another tablet wh e rein Bahá’u’ lláh, in s tead of refe r r in g
to a stream of ut te rance, refe rs to a stream of word s:
When the stream of words reac h ed this stage, the sweet savours of true knowl ed ge we re shed
ab road and the day-s tar of div ine unity shone forth ab ove the hor iz on of His holy ut te rance.
B l e s s ed is he wh om His Call hath at t rac ted to the summit of glory, who hath drawn nigh to the
ultim ate Purpose, and who hath reco g n iz ed through the shr ill voi ce of My Pen of Glory that
which the Lord of this world and of the next hath will ed. Whoso fa ileth to qu a ff the choi ce win e
which We have un s eal ed through the pote ncy of Our Name, the All- C omp e ll in g, shall be un abl e
to dis cern the spl e ndours of the light of div ine unity or to grasp the essenti al purpose unde rl y-
ing the Scriptures of God, the Lord of heaven and ear t h .
When this “s t ream of word s” reaches a ce r ta in point, “t r ue knowl ed ge” is dis p e n s ed. What is this “t r ue
knowl ed ge?” Rather than directly refe r r ing to a message be yond words we see “the shr ill voi ce” of the
Pen of Glory, which the at t rac ted ones can hear. Next Bahá’u’ lláh menti ons those who “qu a ff the choi ce
w in e.” They will dis cern the “purpose unde rl y ing the Scriptures of God.” Noti ce, these are not the peo-
ple who unde rs tand the words of the Scriptures, but those who dis cern the de sign “unde rl y in g” them; a
purpose not within the Scriptures but fund am e n tal to them—supp or ting and hold ing them. Once aga in
7 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
we see the idea of a message or purpose that tran s ce nds words and ut te rance. In fact it app ears that this
purpose is pr im ary and that the ac t u al written Book is som e h ow sub sum ed by this “e s s e n ti al pur p o s e.”
C ould this be the “t r ue knowl ed ge? ”
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá sheds more light:
It is my hope that you may put forth your most earnest endeavor to accompl ish this end, that
you may in ve s ti gate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that you may at ta in knowl-
ed ge of the mys teries hidden therein. Be not satisf i ed with words, but seek to unde rs tand the
s pir i t u al mean in gs hidden in the heart of the word s.52
We are re m inded of this noti on when Bahá’u’ lláh says, “I mm e rse yours e l ves in the ocean of My word s ,
t h at ye may unravel its sec re ts, and dis cover all the pearls of wis dom that lie hid in its de p t hs.”53 T h e s e
h idden pearls of wis dom are likely the same as the mys teries noted in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, “T hus will these
m ys teries be unrave ll ed, not by the a id of ac qu ired lear n in g, but solely through the a s sis tance of God
and the out p our in gs of His grace.”54 ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá rein forces the concept that the lear n ing of words and
ideas is incompl e te. “The Jews read the Old Te s tament night and day, memor izing its words and te xts ye t
w i t h out compre h e nd ing a single mean ing or inner si g n i f i cance, for had they unde rs tood the real mean-
in gs of the Old Te s tament, they would have become be l i e ve rs in Chr ist, in a s much as the Old Te s tam e n t
was re veal ed to pre pare His com in g.”55 If we cannot ga in true knowl ed ge through lear n ing wh at can we
do? Bahá’u’ lláh notes, “The unde rs tand ing of His words and the compre h e n si on of the ut te rances of the
Birds of Heaven are in no wise de p e ndent up on hum an lear n in g. They de p e nd solely up on purity of
h eart, chastity of soul, and fre edom of spir i t.”56
As noted ab ove, another imp or tant feat ure of the “m ys tic cup” is that its con te n ts are fre que n t l y
refe r red to as a choi ce win e. Bahá’u’ lláh makes re p eated refe re nces to a symb olic wine that leads one wh o
par takes to true knowl ed ge and unde rs tand in g.57 Fur t h e r more, the concept that true knowl ed ge in vol ve s
an exp e r i e nce that goes be yond words is rein forced as Bahá’u’ lláh makes refe re nce to this win e’s in eb r i-
ating effec t.
We re We to re veal the hidden sec re ts of that Day, all they that dwe ll on earth and in the heave n s
would swo on away and die, except such as will be pre s e rved by God, the Alm i g h t y, the All-
K now in g, the All-Wis e. Such is the in eb r i ating effect of the words of God up on Him Who is the
Re vealer of His undoub ted pro ofs, that His Pen can move no lon ge r.58
B ahá’u’ lláh, wh ile de s c r ibing hidden sec re ts that would cause hum ankind to swo on and die, seems to
say that those same hidden sec re ts would have such an in eb r i ating effect on Him that it would stop the
d iv ine Pen. This would ce r ta inly tie in with the exp e r i e n ti al nat ure of the mys ti cal and would set for t h
the possibility that God’s word can in s till a sort of alte red con s ci ousness in som e wh at the same mann e r
as alcoh ol or other mind alte r ing dr u gs. In crude terms, wh at would be an ove rdose for a nor m al hum an
was only in eb r i ating for Bahá’u’ lláh. Does this “in eb r i ating effec t” come in weaker do s e s? Exam ine the
follow ing exce r p ts from a prayer re veal ed by Bahá’u’ lláh for the Bahá’í Fa s t:
For Thine ardent love rs Thou hast, accord ing to Thy dec ree, re s e rved at each dayb reak, the cup
of Thy re m e mb rance, O Thou who art the ruler of rul e rs! These are they who have been so in e-
b r i ated with the wine of Thy man i fold wis dom that they forsake their couches in their lon gin g
to ce l eb rate Thy pra ise and extol Thy vir t ue s … .
These are the ones, O my God, wh om Thou hast graci ously enabl ed to have fe llowship with Thee
and to commune with Him who is the Re vealer of Thys e l f.
Noti ce that these in eb r i ated love rs ar ise to “commun e” with Bahá’u’ lláh. The spir i t u al addict flees his
couch to exp e r i e nce the rege n e rating power of the love of God. As Bahá’u’ lláh states in another pa s sage ,
“by the fire of Thy love which drove sleep from the eyes of Thy chosen ones and Thy loved on e.”
Further rein forcing the exp e r i e n ti al nat ure, often in the words of Bahá’u’ lláh we see refe re nces to
ac h i e v ing states of rap t ure and ec s ta s y. This Hidden Word re veals, “s weet is the holy ec s tasy if thou
7 6

The Mystic Cu p
dr inkest of the mys tic chal i ce from the hands of the ce l e s ti al Youth. Shouldst thou at ta in this stati on,
t h ou wouldst be fre ed from de s t r uc ti on and deat h, from toil and sin .”
61 In the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán Bahá’u’ lláh
says of the true seeke r, “O nly when the lamp of searc h, of earnest striv in g, of lon ging de sire, of pa s-
si on ate de voti on, of fe rv id love, of rap t ure, and ec s ta s y, is kindl ed within the seeke r’s heart, and the
b reeze of His lov in g-kindness is wa fted up on his soul ... and the lights of knowl ed ge and ce r ti t ude enve l-
op his bein g.” We at ta in knowl ed ge and ce r ti t ude a fter reac h ing a state of ec s tasy and rap t ure. Then the
m ys tic He rald sounds the trumpet blast of knowl ed ge which endows one with a new eye, a new ear, a
new heart and a new mind .”
62 Is this a knowl ed ge of words and arg um e n t? Or, does this mys tic He rald
impart a ce r ti t ude re s e rved for mys tic knowe rs that tran s ce nds word s?
C on sider this pi c t ure: There are powe r ful hidden sec re ts within the word of God which have the pote n-
ti al to not only compl e tely ove rcome hum ans, but which can also effect a kind of in eb r i ati on in the
Man i fe s tati on. These hidden sec re ts are conn ec ted to the “w ine of thy man i fold wis dom,” which is like-
ly sim il ar to the wine of true unde rs tand in g, and these “w in e s” cause this state of in eb r i ati on. When
these hidden sec re ts are more mo dest in strength or kind their wine has a sim il ar impact on peopl e. These
hum ans are “ardent love rs” who have som e h ow uncove red the “hidden sec re ts” which lead to this in eb r i-
ati on. And as the Gu ard i an noted in the letter regard ing the true mys ti cis m, these love rs have be e n
e n abl ed to “commune with Him,” brin ging them to a state of rap t ure and ec s ta s y. This mys ti cal state of
commun i on is exp e r i e n ti al, lies be yond words and ut te rance, and is at the heart of a spir i t u al tran sfor-
m ati on, which impar ts a mea sure of true unde rs tand ing and ce r ti t ude to the ardent love rs.
Even more comp e ll in g, the Gu ard i an makes clear that mys tic tran sfor m ati on is also essenti al to the
e voluti on of society as a wh ol e.
T h at mys tic, all-p e rva sive, yet indef in able chan ge, which we a s s o ci ate with the stage of mat ur i-
ty in e v i table in the life of the ind iv idu al and the de ve lopment of the fruit must, if we would cor-
rectly appre h e nd the ut te rances of Bahá’u’ lláh, have its coun te r part in the evoluti on of the orga-
n iz ati on of hum an soci e t y. A sim il ar stage must sooner or later be at ta in ed in the coll ec tive life
of mankind, pro ducing an even more striking ph e nom e non in world re l ati ons, and endow ing the
wh ole hum an race with such pote n ti al i ties of we ll-being as shall prov ide, throu g h out the suc-
ce ed ing ages, the chief ince n tive re qu ired for the eve n t u al ful f illment of its high de s tin y.63
C on sider the impl i cati ons of this parag raph. Not only is there an indef in able or mys tic chan ge that
o ccurs in the ind iv idu al, in effect, the Gu ard i an is also say ing that the Golden Age will occur only a fte r
s o ciety as a wh ole unde rgoes some kind of mys ti cal metamor ph o sis.64 Apparently this mys ti cal conn ec-
ti on is not simply for the ind iv idu al but can som e h ow permeate an entire society in a spon tan eou s
organic mann e r. Shoghi Effe ndi refe rs to this coll ec tive “m ys tic chan ge” as the stage of mat ur i t y, wh i c h
w ill prov ide the “c h i ef ince n tive” for the eve n t u al real iz ati on of hum an i t y’s high de s tin y. Exactly wh at
t h at means is can likely be gra s p ed only a fter we be t ter unde rs tand the mys tic chan ge of the ind iv idu al .
Regardless, if we con sider this glob al re n e wal and liken it to the profound and perva sive “m ys tic tran s-
for m ati on” which Bahá’u’ lláh de s c r ibed in the ind iv idu al ,65 one can only specul ate on the wonde rs before
hum an i t y. Not to menti on, even now, the Bahá’ís as a group exp ec ting glob al tran sfor m ati on can ill
a fford to ignore a pro cess that app ears to be in tim ately conn ec ted to that chan ge.
Shoghi Effe ndi goes on to say that this mys tic chan ge will eve n t u ally pro duce a striking ph e nom e non
in soci e t y.66 In a pre v i ous quote, a fter stating that the cause relies “:s olely on that mys tic Source with
which no worldly ad van tage can compare ,”67 he sa id, “t h at it propagates itself by ways mys te r i ous and
ut te rly at var i ance with the stand ards acce p ted by mankind .”68 The Gu ard i an emph a sizes that Bahá’u’ lláh
has call ed in to being “a new race of men.”69 The Blessed Beauty in another pa s sage pro c l a im ed, “T h e
world’s equ il ib r i um hath been upset through the vib rating in flue nce of this most great, this New World
O rde r. Mankind’s orde red life hath been re voluti on iz ed by the age ncy of this un ique, this wondrous sys-
te m —the like of which mor tal eyes hath never witnessed.”70
Is there an in teg ral conn ec ti on be tween the un iqueness of Bahá’u’ lláh’s sys tem and the mys ti cal? Afte r
say ing that we are solely re l i ant on the mys tic Source, Shoghi Effe ndi says that the cause propagates its e l f
in a manner that is not only mys te r i ous but compl e tely at var i ance with the nor m .71 C ompl e te re l i ance
on a mys tic Source would be ve ry diffe rent from acce p ted pro cesses of soci al de ve lopm e n t. The
7 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Gu ard i an’s phrase “a new race of men”
72 l eads one to con sider the “m ys tic tran sfor m ati on”
73 t h at estab-
l is h ed totally new habi ts in the de vout followe rs. Elsewh e re, Bahá’u’ lláh dec l ares “a sys tem the like of
which mor tal eyes hath never witnessed ,”
74 then imm ed i ately broadca s ts one of the more mys ti cal con-
ce p ts in His Re ve l ati on, “I mm e rse yours e l ves in the ocean of my words, that ye may uncover all the
p earls of wis dom that lie hid in its de p t hs.”
U ndoub tedly there is a re l i ance on the mys ti cal in the Bahá’í Fa i t h, but how often do we con sider the
p o s sibility that this re l i ance is of such mag n i t ude that it dwar fs all other force s? Pe rh aps the un ique n e s s
of Bahá’u’ lláh’s sys tem is that it will use this mys tic Source far more than in any other dis p e n sati on .
Pe rh aps in eve ry t h ing we do, whether it is teac h in g, adm in is t rati on, or working for soci al justi ce — t h e
pr im ary dr iv ing force, perh aps the only effec tive dr iv ing force, is our mys ti cal conn ec ti on to
B ahá’u’ lláh. Assum ing this un ique sys tem de p e nds compl e tely on the mys ti cal, is it too bold to a s k, that
w i t h out a conn ec ti on to this mys tic Source, do we have an y t h ing that other non-B ahá’í seg m e n ts of soci-
ety cannot prov ide? Reco g n izing that these proph ecies of “new mo dels of life ,”
76 “a new race of men,”
and a sys tem “the like of which mor tal eyes hath never witnessed ,”
78 are more likely conn ec ted to a mys-
tic tran sfor m ati on than they are to the soci al pr inci ples of the Bahá’í Faith su g ge s ts that this mys ti c
S ource and the tran sfor m ati on it in s pires is the unde n i able found ati on uph old ing the Cause of
B ahá’u’ lláh .
The theme of the mys tic cup and its heave nly draught is in te rs p e rs ed through the Bahá’í sac red writ-
in gs. Not only do we see the Báb, Bahá’u’ lláh, and ‘Abdu’ l-Báha enj oin ing seeke rs to par take of a mys-
tic cup or cup of ce r ti t ude, but, there are num e rous refe re nces to an immor tal drau g h t. Such a glor i ou s
pi c t ure un folds as we ponder the prom ise the Báb offe red to His followe rs, “B l e s s ed are they who dr ink
t h e refrom !”
After the first believers in our Faith were entranced by an invitation to drink of the mystic cup, Nabíl
observed the Báb engaged in mystic communion with his Beloved and spoke of His use of a mystic lan-
guage with Quddus who was far away. Bahá’u’lláh points to the early believers of another age who after
imbibing from the “cup of certitude” underwent a “mystic transformation” in which “their agitation was
turned into peace, their doubt into certitude, their timidity into courage.” Shoghi Effendi asserts that “the
core of religious faith is the mystic feeling which unites man with God,” and that we are totally reliant on
that “mystic Source.” The Universal House of Justice encourages us to cultivate the mystic feeling. ‘Abdu’l-
Báhá directs us to drink of the mystic cup of heavenly love so we can partake of the love engendered by
the true mysticism. Even more interesting the Guardian writes of that “mystic, all-pervasive, yet indefin-
able change,” which is associated with the maturity of the individual and which will have its counterpart
in the transformation and coming of age of the entire human race. And this coming of age is underscored
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s projection of world unity engendered by an ever brighter “mystic oneness.”
The queries this dis cu s si on ra ises are man i fold. Precisely wh e re does mys ti cism fit in as we de ve lop
“new mo dels of life?” What conn ec ti on does this mys tic fe e l ing have to Bahá’í adm in is t rati on, commu-
nity bu ild ing and teac h in g? How can we expand our unde rs tand ing of such thin gs as mys tic tran sfor m a-
ti on, mys tic lan g u age, mys tic Source and all forms of spir i t u al commun i on? What can we do to cultivate
t h is “m ys tic fe e l in g” as the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce has encouraged? How does Bahá’u’ lláh teach mys-
ti cism and wh at is in vol ved in mys ti cal endeavor as a Bahá’í? Compl e te an s we rs to these and other que s-
ti ons are likely imp o s sible at this early stage of Bahá’í de ve lopm e n t. Howe ve r, if hum ankind is ever to
get the soluti ons, we must now begin a serious in ve s ti gati on at all leve l s—as in s ti t uti ons and as ind i-
v idu al s. The fr u i ts in s pired by a search through the mys ti cal ocean of Bahá’u’ lláh’s Re ve l ati on could pro-
v ide cruci al a s sis tance with elu sive goals like spir i t u al tran sfor m ati on, bu ild ing strong commun i ties, the
p e r fec ting of Bahá’í in s ti t uti ons, and for the ultim ate goal of swe e ping glob al chan ge.
Fur t h e r more, Bahá’u’ lláh says ,
The purpose of the one true God, exalted be His glory, hath been to bring forth the Mys tic Gems
out of the mine of man—they Who are the Daw n in g-P l aces of His Cause and the re p o si tories of
the pearls of His knowl ed ge.79
7 8

The Mystic Cu p
These Mys tic Gems, the man i fe s tati ons of God, are our mys tic teac h e rs. We have many opp or t un i ti e s
for mate r i al knowl ed ge but the mys tic knowl ed ge comes only from Bahá’u’ lláh. The Gu ard i an noted that
the mys tic fe e l ing is ce n t ral to de ve loping spir i t u al vir t ues and powe rs.
80 With these powe rs we will
c h an ge the mate r i al world — not the other way around .
In a re l i gi on whose watc h word is un i t y t h is is the ultim ate un i t y. Shoghi Effe ndi de s c r ibed it as that
“m ys tic fe e l ing which un i tes man with God.”
81 From this mys ti cal unity all other unity flows. This un i t y
teaches all un i t y.
82 For it there is no sub s ti t ute. Let us re v isit ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s pred i c ti on regard ing this mys-
tic on e n e s s:
I beg of God to strengthen these spir i t u al bonds as day followeth day, and make this m ys tic on e-
ness to shine ever more brightly, un til at last... s pir i t u al re l ati onships, will conn ect all the hear ts
of the world. Then will all hum ankind, because of this fresh and daz z l ing boun t y, be gat h e red
in a single hom e l and. Then will con flict and dis s e n si on van ish from the face of the ear t h, then
w ill mankind be cradl ed in love for the beauty of the All- G lor i ou s.83 [e mph a sis min e]
Peace be up on him that inc l ineth his ear un to the melody of the Mys tic Bird call ing from the
Sadrat’ l-Mun taha! Glor i f i ed be our Lord the Most High.
— B ahá’u’ lláh84
Note s
1) Nabíl, The Daw n-Breake rs, tran s. Shoghi Effe ndi (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974) p. 69.
2) Ibid., p. 62 .
3) Ibid., p. 69.
4) Ibid .
5) Ibid., p. 70.
6) Ibid .
7) Ibid., p. 78.
8) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi, (Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Reprint 1979), p. 82.
9) The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s: The Most Holy Book, (Ha i fa: The Bahá’í World Cente r, 1992), p. 21.
10) Shoghi Effe nd i, B ahá’í News 102, August 1936, p. 3 in C ompil ati on of Compil ati on s, Vol. 2, pp. 237, 238.
11) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh: Selec ted Lette rs from Shoghi Effe nd i (Wilm e t te, Ill inois ,: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974)
pp. 51, 52 .
12) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, tran s. Shoghi Effe nd i, 6th ed. (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974), p. 155.
13) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, tran s. Ad ib Tah e r z ade h, 1st ed. (Great Br i ta in: W & J Mac k ay Lim i ted, 1978), p. 105.
14) Ibid., p. 268.
15) Shoghi Effe nd i, Li g h ts of Gu id ance (I ndia, 1994), p. 511, MARS for Windows by Cr im s on Publ i cati on s.
16) Ibid., p. 472 .
17) “I n te r n ati on al Di alo g ue and the Bahá’í Faith: Some Pre l im in ary Ob s e rvati on s ,” in Re v isi on ing the Sac red: New
Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy, ed. Jack McL ean (Los Ange l e s: Kal im at Press, 1997), pp. 147, 148.
18) Ibid .
19) Ibid .
20) Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, Letter to the Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States dated May 19,
1994, parag raphs 27, 28.
21) Ibid., par. 32 .
22) Refe re nces to a mys tic cup and Chal i ce of Immor tal i t y: “No sooner had her voi ce reac h ed that most exalted Sp ot than
We made re pl y: “Re nder thanks un to thy Lord, O Carmel. The fire of thy separati on from Me was fast con sum ing thee,
when the ocean of My pre s e nce surged before thy face, cheering thine eyes and those of all creati on, and fill ing with
delight all thin gs visible and in v isibl e. …Seize thou the Chal i ce of Immor tality in the name of thy Lord, the All- G lor i ou s ,
and give thanks un to Him, in a s much as He, in token of His mercy un to thee, hath tur n ed thy sor row in to gladness, and
t ran s muted thy grief in to bl is sful joy.” (B ahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs, pp. 15 –16) “The Celesti al Youth hat h, in this Day, ra is ed
ab ove the heads of men the glor i ous Chal i ce of Immor tal i t y, and is stand ing exp ec tant up on His seat, wonde r ing wh at
e ye will reco g n ize His glory, and wh at arm will, unh e si tatin g l y, be stre tc h ed forth to seize the Cup from His snow-wh i te
Hand and dra in it.” (B ahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs, p. 107) “E m e rge from be h ind the veil, by the leave of thy Lord, the All-
G lor i ous, the Most Powe r ful, and seize, before the eyes of those who are in the heavens and those who are on the ear t h,
the Chal i ce of Immor tal i t y...The moment thou touchest the Cup with thy lips, the Concourse on high will acc l a im thee
say in g, ‘D r ink with healthy re l is h, O man that hast truly be l i e ved in God!’ and the inh abi tan ts of the Ci ties of
I mmor tality will cry out, ‘Joy be to thee, O thou that hast dra in ed the Cup of His love!’” (B ahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs,
pp.148 –149)
7 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
23) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh, Pe rsi an Hidden Word no. 62
24) Ibid., Pe rsi an Hidden Word no. 70
25) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, tran s. Shoghi Effe nd i, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, fift h
pr in tin g, 1971), pp. 15 –16
26) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 155.
27) Ibid., pp. 156, 157.
28) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh: Selec ted Lette rs from Shoghi Effe nd i (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974),
pp. 51, 52 .
29) Me s sage of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce: Intro ducing the Three Year Plan in The Three Year Plan pre pared by the
Nati on al Teac h ing Comm i t tee of the Bahá’ís of the United States (Wilm e t te, Ill: 1993), p. 5.
30) Shoghi Effe nd i, B ahá’í News 102, August 1936, p. 3 in C ompil ati on of Compil ati on s, Vol. 2, pp. 237, 238.
31) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 51, 52 .
32) B ahá’í News 102, p. 237.
33) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 238.
34) Sp e ech by Ad ib Tah e r z ade h, Me mber of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, at the Bahá’í House of Wors h i p, Wilm e t te ,
I ll inois, Sept. 1997.
35) Shoghi Effe nd i, U n fold ing Destin y, (United Kin gdom, 1981) p. 406.
36) S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. (Tran s. Comm i t tee at the Bahá’í World Cente r. [C h at h am, Great Br i ta in: W
& J Mac k ay, 1978] pp. 149, 150.
37) Sp e ech at the Bahá’í House of Wors h i p, Wilm e t te, Ill inois, Sept. 1997.
38) C ompil ati on of Compil ati on s, Vol. 2, p. 238.
39) Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, Rid ván Me s sage, 1992
40) C ompil ati on of Compil ati on s, Vol. 2, p. 238.
41) S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, pp. 19, 20.
42) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh, Arabic Hidden Word no. 1.
43) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 192 .
44) Ibid .
45) Ibid., p. 197.
46) Ibid., p. 196.
47) Ibid., p. 91.
48) Ibid., p. 3.
49) Ibid., p. 59.
50) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 105.
51) Word in this sense is sim il ar to the use of lo go s in John Chap ter 1 of the Bibl e. He re the Word or lo go s f irst re sides in
the heaven and then becomes flesh as Chr is t. We see hin ts of this in Bahá’í Scripture when Bahá’u’ lláh speaks of the
Man i fest and Lum inous Poin t. This Point is sent forth from the “hor iz on of His Will .... This Point is the fo cal ce n te r
of the circle of Names and marketh the culm in ati on of the man i fe s tati ons of Lette rs in the world of creati on. Throu g h
it have app eared ind i cati ons of the imp e n e t rable Mys te ry, the ador n ed Sy mb ol, He Who standeth re veal ed in the Mo s t
Great Nam e —a Name which is recorded in the lum inous Tablet and is in s c r ibed in the hol y, the bl e s s ed, the snow-wh i te
S c roll. And when the Point was join ed to the second Letter (1) which app eareth in the beginn ing of the Mat h an i,(1) it
t rave rs ed the heavens of exp o si ti on and ut te rance. Then the ete r n al Light of God shed its rad i ance, fl ared up in the mid-
most heart of the fir m ament of te s timony and pro duced two Lum in ar i e s.” (B ahá’u’ lláh, Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp.
101–102) Also, up on exam in ing the first ve rse de s c r ibing the “s t ream of ut te rance” it is not clear if Bahá’u’ lláh is refe r-
r ing to the “s t ream” as cau sing this marve lous re n e wal or if it is the “s weet savours” com ing from the Re ve l ati on. In the
s econd pa s sage it app ears more likely that the stream of words reaches a ce r ta in stage and then the sweet savours of true
knowl ed ge powe rs this rege n e rati on. Ac t u ally it makes little diffe re nce, the stream of ut te rance and the sweet savours
m ay be exactly the same and if not they ar ise from the same source. Howe ve r, when try ing to unravel how ut te rance can
re veal without words it likely makes more sense to have the sweet savours of the Re ve l ati on of true unde rs tand ing dis-
c lo sing a purpose that goes be yond word s.
52) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, compil ed by Howard MacNutt, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1982),
p. 459.
53) The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 85.
54) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 192 .
55) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, p. 459.
56) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 211.
57) Some refe re nces to this win e: “...those that have qu a ffed the wine of knowl ed ge and ce r ti t ude …” (B ahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-
ˆqán, pp. 161–162). “...dr ink the incor r up tible wate rs of the river of knowl ed ge, and to ta s te the wine of the mys te r i e s
of div ine Unity” (B ahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 200) “It will ...cause you to be h old the thin gs from which ye have be e n
w i t hh e ld, and will enable you to qu a ff His spark l ing Win e.” (B ahá’u’ lláh, Pro c l am ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 78) “... nour is h
me with the wine of Thy knowl ed ge...” (B ahá’u’ lláh, Praye rs and Med i tati on s, p. 78)
8 0

The Mystic Cu p
58) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 35.
59) B ahá’í Praye rs, U. S. 1991 ed i ti on, pp. 247, 249.
60) Praye rs and Med i tati on s, tran s. Shoghi Effe nd i, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, sixth pr in ting 1974), p. 292 .
61) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh, Pe rsi an No. 70.
62) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, pp. 195 –196.
63) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 163, 164.
64) God Passes By, Shoghi Effe nd i, (Wilm e t te, IL: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, sixth pr in tin g, 1970), p. 324.
65) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 155.
66) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 164.
67) Ibid., p. 51.
68) Ibid .
69) The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, Shoghi Effe nd i, (United States, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1990), p. 16.
70) The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, K. 181.
71) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 51, 52 .
72) The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, p. 16.
73) The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 151.
74) The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, K. 181, 182 .
75) Ibid .
76) U n fold ing Destin y, p. 406.
77) The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, p. 16.
78) The Ki t á b -i-A qd a s , K. 181, 182 .
79) Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, Tran s. Shoghi Effe ndi. (Wilm e t te, Ill: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1971) p. 13.
80) C ompil ati on of Compil ati on s, Vol. 2, pp. 237, 238.
81) Ibid .
82) If, as the Gu ard i an states, the mys tic fe e l ing is wh at un i tes man with God it is lo gi cal to a s sume that this unity with God
is the essence of unity and that it is the ultim ate found ati on for any unity that we a s pire to be tween hum an s.
83) S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, pp. 19, 20.
84) Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 257.
8 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
8 2

A Sh o rt Poem by “Da rv í s h” Mu h a m m a d
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh:
Sáqí az ghayb-i baqá burqa‘  bar afkan az ‘idhár
An Introduction and Three Versions of Provisional English Translations
by Franklin D. Lewis
T
he cor pus of Bahá’u’ lláh’s writin gs, all of which Bahá’ís regard as scripture, con sis ts ove rwh e lm-
ingly of pro s e. These prose works a s sume a variety of forms and ge nres, often expl i citly ind i cated
by for m al terms app ear ing in the titles given to the ind iv idu al works, such as tablet (l awh, súrih),
e pistle (r is ál ih), book (ki t á b), etc. In the Arabic and Pe rsi an trad i ti on, prose (n at hr) can be simple (mur-
sal) or ador n ed (m ars ú‘), the most common type of ador nment being saj‘, collo cati ons of parallel phra s-
in gs which ob s e rve rh y m e. Many of the praye rs and other writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh rely heav ily up on saj‘,
and inde ed, some of his comp o si ti ons, such as “Hal ih, hal ih yá bis hár á t ,”1 ob s e rve some, but not all, of
the rules of classi cal metrics and pro s o d y. As suc h, they tran s ce nd the category of rh y m ed prose (n at hr-
i mu sajja‘) and exhibit litan y-l ike feat ures that might be classed as a form of ve rsi f i cati on (n az m) or qu a si-
ve rs e.
In add i ti on to these prose works, there are also a number of poems (s h i‘r), which meet the classi cal
con ve n ti ons of Pe rsi an and Arabic ve rse, inc lud ing meter and rh y m e. Among these poems by Bahá’u’ lláh,
b oth the “Qa s íd iy-i Var qá’í yy ih” (The Dove Ode) and “Ra s hh-i ‘am á” (The Spr ink l ing of the Div in e
C loud), we re menti on ed by Shoghi Effe nd i, and dis cu s s ed by Ad ib Tah e r z ade h .2 In recent decades, pro-
v isi on al tran s l ati ons of these two poems have app eared .3 The lon ger “Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak,” first dis-
cu s s ed by Ad ib Tah e r z ade h, has now also app eared in a prov isi on al tran s l ati on .4
In add i ti on to the ab ove, Bahá’u’ lláh comp o s ed a number of shor ter poems which he si g n ed in the last
or penultim ate line with the nom de plume, or takh allu s, of “Darvís h” (the Derv is h). These shor te r
poems, which we re apparently comp o s ed in the moun ta ins of Sul ay m ání yy ih in Ira qi Kurd is tan in the
m id-1850s, con form to the trad i ti on al Pe rsi an ve rse forms of the qa s íd ih (a lon ger ode) and ∞§az al (a
s h or te r, sonn e t-l ike, lyrical for m), ob s e rv ing mono -rhyme, the con ve n ti on al mete rs and other pro s o d i c
r ul e s. Though they have been publ is h ed at least once in the or i gin al ,
5 they have not yet been stud i ed, and
re m a in as yet un t ran s l ated to English.
Many of the themes that app ear in Bahá’u’ lláh’s lon gest poem, the Mat hn aví y-i mubárak, which wa s
e v idently comp o s ed over a period of time, beginn ing perh aps as early as his re t reat to Ira qi Kurd is tan,
and ce r ta inly by his time in Bag hd ad, but compl e ted only a fter his ar r ival in Istanbul ,
6 are already in
e v ide nce in these shor ter poems of “Darvís h” (the Derv is h) which apparently date from his re t reat in the
moun ta ins of  Ira qi Kurd is tan. Bahá’u’ lláh left Iran for Bag hd ad in the first half of the month of
Rabí‘u’t h-t hání, 1269 A.H., or more precisely on the first of Bahm an,
7 cor re s p ond ing to 21 Janu ary
1854. Ve ry shortly a fter his ar r ival in Bag hd ad, it became clear that the dis s e n si ons and con fu si on with-
in the Bábí community in the wake of the executi on of the Báb, and the apparent app ointment of Mír z á
Yah yá as succe s s or, threate n ed to frac t ure the commun i t y. Bahá’u’ lláh, whose pre s e nce and emin e nce
apparently con s ti t uted a threat to Yah yá, therefore decided to withdraw.
Shoghi Effe ndi te lls us that on 12 Rajab 1270 A.H. (10 Apr il 1854) Bahá’u’ lláh set out on his ow n,
l eav ing his fam ily be h ind in Bag hd ad, accompan i ed only by a Mu s l im servant, Abu’ l-Qásim of
8 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Ham ad an, who was soon kill ed by thieve s. After this Bahá’u’ lláh lived in sec lu si on in “the garb of a trav-
e l e r;” since he was car ry ing a k a s hk ú l, or alm s-b owl, and had a s sum ed the name Darvísh Muh amm ad ,
8 h e
must have been liv ing the life and wear ing the clothes of a mend i cant de rv ish or pi ous rec luse, that is
to say, a Sufi. As his son, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, de s c r ibes it:
D ur ing this period Bahá’u’ lláh lived in pove r t y. His gar m e n ts we re those of the poor and need y.
H is food was that of the ind i gent and lowl y....
Shoghi Effe ndi te lls us that Bahá’u’ lláh first lived on a moun ta in call ed Sar- G alú in a crude ston e
s t r uc t ure, and som e times even in a cave. Accord ing to Bahá’u’ lláh’s own te s timony in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán,
he often went without food or re s t. Dur ing this period he comp o s ed many prose and ve rse “praye rs and
s ol iloqu i e s” in both Arabic and Pe rsi an .10 Sub s e que n t l y, he was in v i ted by Shaykh Ismá’íl of the
K hál idí yy ih Orde r, to re side in their Derv ish Lodge (taky ih or Turkish te k ke) in Sul ay m ání yy ih; in add i-
ti on, Bahá’u’ lláh made pers on al con tact with leade rs of other Sufi orde rs, speci f i cally Shaykh ‘U t hm án
of the Na qs hb andí Order and Shaykh ‘Abdu’r-Rahm án of the Qád irí order (to wh om Bahá’u’ lláh late r
addre s s ed The Four Vall e ys).
The in for m ati on in God Passes By seems to su g gest that these poems si g n ed “D e rv is h” date to the ear-
lier phase of Bahá’u’ lláh’s re side nce at Sar- G alú, prob ably some time be tween the Spr ing of 1854 and the
Win ter of 1854–55. Howe ve r, we cannot yet compl e tely rule out the possibility that they we re comp o s ed
l ate r, wh ile at the Khál idí lo d ge in Sul ay m ání yy ih, or perh aps even in the period shortly a fter his re t ur n
to Bag hd ad. The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán addresses itself to specific mat te rs of Shiite and Bábí theolo gy and re pre-
s e n ts a break with the Sufi and gno s tic vo cabul ary of Bahá’u’ lláh’s earlier poems and of his S e ven Vall e ys
and Four Vall e ys. Though it dates to a period pr i or to Bahá’u’ lláh’s announcement of his claim to be the
ad vent of “H im wh om God will make man i fe s t ,” the ˆqán s t rongly su g ge s ts its status as div ine re ve l a-
ti on and expl i citly claims aut h orship for Bahá’u’ lláh .11
By con t rast, the poems of “D e rv ish Muh amm ad” do not speak op e nly with the voi ce of Bahá’u’ lláh,
and do not expl i citly lay claim to re ve l ati on. Alt h ough they do broach messi anic themes wh i c h, viewed
in the light of Bahá’u’ lláh’s later claims, can be seen as veil ed allu si ons to the eve n t u al public pro c l a-
m ati on of his claims in Apr il 1863, the con te xt of Sufi poetry would have made it qu i te easy to dis coun t
any impl i cati on that Bahá’u’ lláh was lay ing claim to a speci al stati on.
As to the aut h or i al voi ce in the early poems of Bahá’u’ lláh, they we re comp o s ed under a sob r ique t ,
“Darvís h,” or Derv ish. The con ve n ti ons of the ghaz al and, to a lesser extent, the qa s íd ih, call ed for the
aut h or to adopt a poetic pers ona, which is evoked by name (takh allu s) in the body of the poem (e.g., “O
H âfe z...” ). The takh allu s is the poet’s adop ted stage name, by which he is ge n e rally known (Sa‘d i, ‘At t âr,
San â’i, etc .). In a ghaz al, an ap o s t rophe to his stage pers ona usu ally occurs in the last line, som e tim e s
in the penultim ate, or more rarely in the first line of the poem. In the par ti cul ar case of Bahá’u’ lláh,
“D e rv is h” apparently served not only a poetic pen name, but also as the name he a s sum ed, “D e rv is h
Muh amm ad ,” wh ile liv ing inco g n i to in Sul ay m ání yy ih. This mon iker “D e rv is h” app ears as the takh allu s
in the fin al line of at least eight poems of Bahá’u’ lláh .12
The first poem of Báh a’u’ lláh, dating to his incarce rati on in the Siyáh Chál and known by its op e n-
ing words as “Ra s hh-i ‘am â,” employs “B ahá” as takh allu s in the penultim ate lin e:
rann iy-i nâ’í bín k- az kilk-i Bahá mí -ríz ad.
See how the lam e n tati ons of the re ed pi p e r
p our forth through the re ed pen of Bah â
B ahá’u’ lláh also alludes to himself with the pen name “B ahá” in his Mat hn aví, which was appare n t l y
the last for m al poem he comp o s ed. In the poem tran s l ated be low, there is also a refe re nce to Bahá,
t h ough it does not app ear in the posi ti on of the takh allu s. If comp o s ed or circul ated among Na qs hb and i
or Khal idi Su f is ,
14 in whose company Bahá’u’ lláh was known as Derv ish Muh amm ad, the word B ahá
would not have been unde rs tood as an allu si on to him s e l f. Most prob abl y, it would have been unde rs to o d
as an homage to the eponymous founder of the Naqshbandi order, Bahá al-Din Naqshband (717–791 A.H./
8 4

A Sh o rt Poem by “Da rv í s h” Mu h a m m a d
1317–1389 A.D.). Howe ve r, “D e rv is h,” which occurs in the fin al line, the trad i ti on al pl ace for the poet’s
takh allu s, would have been unde rs tood as the “si g n at ure” of the poet, in this case, “Darv is h
Muh amm ad ,” if he shared any of these Pe rsi an poems with the people in Sul ay m ání yy ih, and it seems
l ikely that he did, since he comp o s ed the “Qa s íd iy-i Var qá’iyy ih” at the re quest of the Su f is he met there.
The meter of the poem, like the “Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak,” is Ram al, though the mea sure here is octam e-
ter Ram al (ram al-i mut h amm an), as opp o s ed to the shor ter hexam e ter Ram al (ram al-i mu sadd a s) of the
Mat hn aví. The Ram al meter is based up on a re p e ti ti on of the basic four-s yll able fo ot  | - 4 - - |  (wh e re
[ - ] re pre s e n ts a long syll able and  [
] a short syll abl e), accord ing to qu an ti tative (not acce n t u al) mea-
sure. One line, or stich (b ay t), of octam e ter Ram al con sis ts of eight such feet, div ided in to two equ al
and symm e t r i cal hemis ti c hs (m is r á‘) div ided by a cae sura. In this par ti cul ar poem, the fourth and ei g h t h
fo ot of each line are truncated to three syll ables | - - |, and de s c r ibed pro s o d i cally as catal ec tic (m ahd-
hú f). The full pat tern of one line of catal ec tic octam e ter Ram al, or Ram al-i mut h amm an-i  mahdhú f,
would therefore lo ok like this:
Foot:   1           2          3          4    a       5           6          7          8   a
| -
- - | -
- - | -
- - | -
-    | |
- - - | -
- - | -
- - | -
- |
In the first line of a ghaz al or qa s íd ih, the fin al syll able before the cae sura and the fin al syll able of
the line rhyme with one anot h e r. Therea fter throu g h out the poem this same mono -rhyme re p eats as the
f in al syll able of each line, in the pat tern a ab acad a, etc .15
I n te re s tin g l y, the hemis tich (m is r á‘) in which the takh allu s “Darvís h” app ears in this par ti cul ar poem
(the first half of line 15) does not follow the same meter as the rest of the poem. Rather this hal f-l in e
con forms to an entirely diffe rent mete r, pentam e ter Haz aj-i akhrab -i mak fú f, which happens to con ta in
t hree more syll ables than the rest of the lines, as follows:
- - | - - | - - | - - | - -  ||
T h is is a viol ati on of trad i ti on al metrics, as a poem should follow the same meter throu g h out. This
is ol ated var i ati on here might su g gest that this hemis tich has been quoted from another poem and embed-
ded here (tadmín), or perh aps added at another time as an a fte r-t h ou g h t. Howe ve r, this is not the onl y
in s tance in which the mete rs app ear to chan ge within a given poem of Bahá’u’ lláh. For example, the
poem m a s tand bulbulán zi nag hm iy-i Yá Hú -yi ú begins in the first line with a meter not con ve n ti on al-
ly reco g n iz ed as pro s o d i cally acce p table (mu s ta f ‘ilun mafá‘ilun fa‘ilá t un fa‘al: - -
-
-
-
- -
-), but
s h i fts a fter that to Ram al .
S e ve ral of the poems si g n ed “D e rv is h” util ize the con ve n ti on al wine im age ry of classi cal Pe rsi an poet-
ry, in vol v ing a call to the Sá q í, or cupbeare r, to pour out a round of win e. In some settin gs, such as the
royal wine poem, the scene is one of merry carou sal and wa s sa il in g. In other settin gs, wine is dr unk a s
a pall i ative to drown out the sor rows of the world. In yet other con te xts, wine is symb olic of the in tox-
i cati on brought ab out when in the pre s e nce of the num inous, or of the m ys te r i um tre m e ndum; it can
also symb ol ize the ove r r id ing of rati on al perce p ti on that the gno s tic feels in his ove r p owe r ing love for
God. Clearl y, the wine in Bahá’u’ lláh’s poems stands in this trad i ti on of mys ti cal in eb r i ati on, as is made
c l ear in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. This symb ol ism also app ears in the Seven Vall e ys, to which the poem we are
presently con side r ing bears a ce r ta in re s e mbl ance in enum e rating some of the stages along the path of
the spir i t u al quest (see line 4–5, wh e re the stages of Love and Poverty are alluded to, and lines 5 and 8,
which expl i citly speak of the pat h).
He re then is a prov isi on al prose tran s l ati on of one of the ghaz als of Bahá’u’ lláh, Sáqí az g h ayb -i-b a qá,
which is si g n ed in the voi ce of Derv ish Muh amm ad .
17 As has been arg ued elsewh e re, because Shoghi
Effe ndi never tran s l ated any of the for m al poetry of Bahá’u’ lláh, we have no aut h or i tative mo dels for the
t ran s l ati on of the poems of Bahá’u’ lláh. I have therefore at te mp ted to re nder this poem in three diffe r-
ent ve rsi ons, to prov ide examples of the op ti ons ava il able to us in tran s l ating scripture, which is or i gi-
n ally in the form of ve rs e.
8 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Bahá’u’lláh’s poem Sáqí az ghayb-e baqá bur qa‘  bar afk an az ‘idhár
1. A Provisional Prose Translation
T h is tran s l ati on seeks to state in clear id i om atic Englis h, without, howe ve r, being ove rly lite ral and
w i t h out expl an atory in te r p ol ati ons, the mean ing of the poem. Each hemis tich of the or i gin al poem is
t ran s l ated on a separate lin e. This, then, is a lin eated prose ve rsi on of the poem; the lines are numbe red
for easy refe re nce.
Cupbeare r, from the cheeks of the unseen immor tal realm cast a side the veil
a
T h at I may sip the ete r n al wine from the beauty of the Make r
1b
T h at which you have in the wine jugs will not break the bil e18 of love
2 a
From that wine of inner mean in g, Cupbeare r, bring forth an ocean
2b
T h at this veil ed, love-fre nzi ed on e19 m ay begin to shout
3 a
T h at this div inely dr unk one may be rou s ed from stup or
3b
Light up a fire of love, incin e rate the entirety of exis ting thin gs
4a
Then lift a fo ot and step in to the precinc ts of the love rs20
4b
U n til you are effaced of all at t r ibutes of creati on, man of the pat h,21
5a
How will you ta s te ete r n al wine from that Idol’s succulent ruby lips
5 b
Set fo ot on the top of the realm, then enter Pove r t y’s shelte r ing shade —22
6 a
and now you may see the Ete r n al realm on eve ry side
6b
If the thought of life preo ccupies your heart, do not come here
7a
If you have a heart and soul to scat te r, come forth and proffer it
7 b
T h is is the cu s tom of the pat h, if you’ve a hope of join ing with Bahá23
8a
If you are not the man for this pat h, be off and trouble me no more!
8b
If you wish to be appr is ed of the mys teries of love
9a
Open the eye of admon i ti on, close the pat hs to pr ide24
9b
T h at you may see Mo s e s’ Moun ta in circum ambul ate right here
10a
T h at you may see the spirit of Jesus restless in its love of him25
10b
T h at you may find the tabl e t26 a ff ir m ing the Div ine Unity
in the two bra ids of the Fr i e nd
11a
T h at you may read the scroll27 sanc ti f y ing God’s Essence28
in the two cheeks of the Be loved
11b
He re, qu a ff the wine of joy from the viv i f y ing fount of love
12 a
T h at you may victor i ously cast your head at the feet of the Fr i e nd
12b
In this a s s e mbl age they are dead in the path of the Fr i e nd
13 a
O Me s si ah of the age, in s pire us with a warm re v iv ing breat h
13b
T h at the birds of exis te nce may soar be yond the body’s pr is on
14a
U n to the pl aceless at mo s ph e re be n eath the shelte r ing shade of
He Who holds Powe r
14b
D e rv ish! The world’s con sum ed by the div ine, soul-incin e rating fl am e29
15a
It’s time for you to bring it to life with this melo d i ous lam e n t
15 b
8 6

A Sh o rt Poem by “Da rv í s h” Mu h a m m a d
2. A Provisional Free Verse Version
In the English ve rsi on that follows, I have at te mp ted to give a more lite rary form to the poem. Unl ike
the Pe rsi an, it is in free ve rse, with no pre- de te r m in ed meter and no effort to rh y m e. I have also allowed
for greater fre edom in re nde r ing the Englis h, breaking the lines to create rh y t hmic phra sing or to high-
light the mean in g. Those who have tran s l ated lite rary works will reco g n ize that the tran s l ator is ofte n
comp e ll ed to make an idea or metaph or or phrase that was su g ge s tive or ambi g uous in the or i gin al lan-
g u age, more de te r m in ed in tran s l ati on, because ambiguity and su g ge s tive lan g u age cannot al ways be
t ran sfe r red. Where the or i gin al metaph ors seemed vag ue or su g ge s tive, I have allowed some leeway in
s earc h ing for a poetic equ ivalent in this tran s l ati on; these dive rge nces will be apparent by compar is on
with the pre v i ous tran s l ati on. The line numbe rs are inc luded to facil i tate compar is on be tween the two
ve rsi on s.
You ,
who te nd and pour the win e!
Let the veil slip off the cheeks
t h at have been cloaked
in the Unseen immor tal realm
1a
Let me sip that eve rl a s ting vin tage
of the Beauty
of the Fa s h i on e r
1b
The stuff you keep in wine jugs
C ould never break love’s debil i tating bil e
2 a
so pour out an ocean’s mea sure
of the wine of inner mean in g
2b
Make this veil ed and fre nzi ed one begin to shout
3 a
Rouse this Lordly dr unk ard from in toxi cated stup or
3b
Light up a fire of love
incin e rate the entirety of eve ry exis te nce
4a
C ome forward step by step on to the love rs’ tur f.
4b
You who que s t!
U n til you are
effaced
of all traces of the un ive rs e
5a
you can never sip the wine
of that Idol’s
succulent ruby lips
5 b
C l imb on to the apex of this realm
then enter Pove r t y’s shelte r ing shade
6 a
from here your van tage all around
w ill be the Realm Ete r n al
6b
Do not tread here
if your hear t’s preo ccupi ed with care for life
7a
but if you have a heart and soul to scat te r,
come forward with your offe r in g
7 b
—such is the cu s tom of the que s t
if you long for un i on with Bahá,
8a
but if you are not man enough for such a pat h
be off and trouble me no more!
8b
8 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Now,
if you want to know the mys teries
of mys tic love
9a
open the eye of admon i ti on
and close the do or to pr ide
9b
Then you may see the ve ry Mount of Moses move
and circum ambul ate around us here
10a
Then you may see the spirit of Jesu s
b reat hless in its love of him
10b
Then you may read the tablet
a ff ir m ing God’s Unici t y
in the two bra ids of the Fr i e nd
11a
Then you may read the scroll
sanc ti f y ing God’s Essence
in the two cheeks of the Be loved
11b
He re!
qu a ff the wine of bl is s
from the viv i f y ing fount of love
12 a
t h at you may cast your head
in victory
at the feet of the Fr i e nd
12b
They are dead in this a s s e mbl age
in the path of the Fr i e nd
13 a
O Me s si ah of the age!
I n s pire us, qu i c k,
with your warm re v iv ing breat h
13b
T h at the birds of exis te nce may soar
be yond the body’s pr is on
14a
in the pl aceless space ab ove
to the shelte r
of Him
who holds the power in His hand s
14b
D e rv is h !
The fl ames of this div ine soul- con fl ag rati on
h ave con sum ed the world
15a
It’s now tim e
for you to bring it back to life
with this melo d i ous lam e n t
15 b
3. An experimental version in Double-Sonnet Form
In tran s l atin g, if one sub m i ts to the con s t ra in ts of meter and rhyme, one must in e v i tably sac r i f i ce
s ome deg ree of precisi on of the mean in g. Whether or not the in tan gible be n ef i ts of sonorous and pat-
te r n ed speech will atone for the loss of lite ralness is in large part de te r m in ed by the nat ure and obj ec-
tives of the or i gin al te xt. In the var i ous tran s l ati ons of the poetry of Rum i,
30 who is sa id to be the be s t-
s e ll ing poet in North America, one may ob s e rve two rather con t ra s ting parad i g m s:  those whose a im it
is to pre s e rve the precise mean ing of  wh at Jalálu’d-D ín is teac h ing in his ve rse, and those who feel that
the poetry of how those ideas are expre s s ed is of equ al imp or tance to the con tent of wh at is being sa id .
W h at follows is a re nd i ti on of the poem in to an ad ap tati on of a trad i ti on al English ve rse for m, the
s onnet, a stanza of four teen pentam e ter lines ob s e rv ing a rhyme pat tern of ab ab cdcdefef gg  and a mete r
t h at is rou g hly iambic. Bahá’u’ lláh’s poem in the or i gin al Pe rsi an has fifteen lines of thirty syll ables, or
8 8

A Sh o rt Poem by “Da rv í s h” Mu h a m m a d
ab out 450 syll abl e s. An English pentam e ter sonnet con sis ts of four teen lines of approxim ately ten syll a-
bles eac h, for a total of rou g hly 140 syll abl e s. Ob v i ou s l y, therefore, a single sonnet cannot con vey the
e n tire lin e-b y-l ine mean ing of this poem. Alt h ough Shoghi Effe ndi has, in some cases, chosen to leave
out par ts of tabl e ts he tran s l ated (for example, the fin al sente nces of the Tablet of Ahm ad, which give
in s t r uc ti ons to con vey gre e tin gs to var i ous ind iv idu als, and do not really con t r ibute to the mean ing of
the praye r), it seemed to me that this poem should be tran s l ated without alte r ing its nar rative pro g re s-
si on or excising any of the mat te rs it cove rs.
I have at te mp ted to do so in the sonnet doublet that follows:  two sonn e ts join ed to gether by a fin al
couplet, for a total of thirty lin e s. A more capable poet might pro duce be t ter re sults, but this will at
l east prov ide the reader with a comparand for the two preced ing ve rsi ons, to illu s t rate by example wh at
might be ga in ed, as we ll as wh at is lost, in choosing to tran s l ate a trad i ti on al Pe rsi an ve rse form in to a
t rad i ti on al English ve rse for m .
Cupbeare r, re nd the Ever Unseen’s veil —
and let me qu a ff the Make r’s wine ce l e s ti al
With wh at you keep in kegs, love’s bile won’t heal
p our out a sea of Spir i t’s vin tage speci al
to make this fre nzi ed but conceal ed one stir,
to rouse him from div ine in eb r i ati on !
Light up a bl aze of love, burn up the world
then enter in the love rs’ habi tati on .
You must first die to at t r ibutes this-worldly
to ta s te that Idol’s win e- dre nc h ed ruby lips.
Pass ear t hly realms and enter Pove r t y
whose refu ge over realms ete r n al lo ok s.
If your heart loves dear life, step no far t h e r;
But come on if you’ve life and heart to offe r!
Such is the cu s tom of the path that join s
B ahá; be off if you can’t take the pa in .
But if to learn Love’s sec re ts your heart pin e s
— t urn back from pr ide with eyes to wis dom op e n
then you may see Mount Sinai circ l ing round
and feel Chr is t’s spirit spir ing for the Fr i e nd
whose tresses spell God’s Unity as found
on cheeks like pages sanc ti f i ed from sin
From love’s life-giv ing spr ing dr ink bl is sful win e
A nd cast your head in victory at his fe e t
I n s pire these folk, Me s si ah of the Tim e ,
who tread so lifeless down the Fr i e nd’s own street ,
with liv ing breat h, to break the body’s cage
and soar like birds to God’s abid ing pl ace
D e rv is h, div ine fire’s scorc h ed all souls, burnt world s!
Re v ive them now with this lament of yours …
Note s
1)  A prov isi on al tran s l ati on of “Hal ih, hal ih yá bis hár á t” was offe red by Ste phen Lambden in B ahá’í St udies Bull e tin 2:3
(D ece mber 1983): 105 –112. A re v is ed ve rsi on of this now app ears at www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /prov isi on al s/ h all e lujah .h t ml,
along with another (more metrical) ve rsi on by Sen Mc G l inn. Most of Bahá’u’ lláh’s praye rs ob s e rve some deg ree of rh y m ed
prose (saj‘), but he also aut h ored a number of heav ily cade nced, rh y m in g, litan y-l ike praye rs, such as “The Tablet of the
Holy Mar in e r,” the Long Heal ing Prayer (‘A n ta’ l-Káfí Anta’s h-S háfí), or “Bulbul al-f ir á q” (which has been tran s l ated by
Ju an Cole  as “N i g h tin gale of  Separati on” at h t t p ://www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /prov isi on al s/n i g h tin gal e. s e parati on .h t ml).
8 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
“Hal ih, hal ih yá bis hár á t” seems a closer approxim ati on than these of wh at would trad i ti on ally have been categor iz ed a s
ve rse (n az m). We might even choose to see it as an example of exp e r im e n tati on with the trad i ti on al ve rse fo ot, sim il ar
in some re s p ec ts to the mu s taz ád for m, to the ta s nífs of the Con s ti t uti on al period, or even to the mixed and truncated
m e te rs of Nímá Yú s h íj, who is usu ally cred i ted as the father of the mo dern free ve rse forms which have de ve lop ed since
the 1920s.
2) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By (Wilm e t te, IL: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1944), pp. 123 and 121, re s p ec tive l y. See also Ad ib
Tah e r z ade h, The Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh: Bag hd ad, 1853 - 63, vol. 1, 3rd re v. ed., (O xford: George Ron ald, 1976), pp. 45 – 6
(Ra s hh-i-`A m á), and 62– 64 (Qa s íd ih).
3) A prov isi on al rh y m ing tran s l ati on of the “Qa s íd iy-i Var qá’í yy ih” has been unde r taken by Ju an R. Cole (see h t t p ://b ah a i-
l ib rary.org /prov isi on al s/o de.dove.h t ml); Br i an Miller offe rs an unrh y m ed free ve rse tran s l ati on in his Ph.D. dis s e r tati on
( U.C. Be rke l e y, 2000). “Ra s hh-i-‘am á” was tran s l ated by Ste phen Lambden in B ahá’í St udies Bull e tin 3 :2 (1984).
4) Ad ib Tah e r z ade h, The Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh: Adr i anople, 1863 - 68, vol. 2 (O xford: George Ron ald, 1977), pp. 29 –54.
A prov isi on al bl ank ve rse tran s l ati on with annotati ons of Bahá’u’ lláh’s Mat hn aví y-i mubárak app ears in B ahá’í St ud i e s
Re v i e w 9 (1999 –2000): 126–157.
5) In the multi-volume an t h olo gy of the writin gs of the “C e n t ral Fi g ure s” of the Bahá’í Faith M á’id iy-i ás m ání, ed., ‘Abd al-
Hamíd Ishr á q-K há varí ([Te hran]: Mu’a s sisiy-i Millí y-i Matbú‘á t-i Amrí, 129 B.E. / 1972 A.D.), v. 4, pp. 176–211. Exce r p ts
from the Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak and other poems of Bahá’u’ lláh are given by Fad il Maz and arani in his Zuhúr al-Ha q q, v.
4, pp. 139 –43, which is ava il able in fac sim ile on the web at http://www2 .h-n e t. m su .edu / ~ b ah a i /arabi c/vol 2/t z h4/t z h4.h t m
(I am grateful to Ju an Cole for poin ting out this refe re nce in re s p onse to a que ry I posted on the Tar j um an dis cu s si on
l is t).
6) See my in t ro duc ti on to and prov isi on al ve rse tran s l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh’s Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak in “Po e t ry as Re ve l ati on”
in B ahá’í St udies Re v i e w 9 (1999 –2000): 101–157. Maz and arani in Zuhúr al-Ha q q, (op. ci t.), v. 4, pp. 139 –41, appare n t l y
d ates the Mat hn aví to the Sul ay m án iyy ih period.
7) Maz and aran i, Zuhúr al-Ha q q, (op. ci t.), 4:117.
8) God Passes By, 120.
9) God Passes By, 124. It might be poin ted out that etymolo gi call y, the word darvísh means “p o or pers on .”
10) God Passes By, 120.
11) The coloph on, which app ears to have been added when the book was or i gin ally comp o s ed, uses the terms nuz zil a and
m anzú l, Koranic terms for re ve l ati on “sent dow n” by God. It also states that it was re veal ed by the Bá and Há, an allu-
si on to the lette rs of Bahá. The in t ro duc tory parag raph in Arabic to the H idden Word s (Kal im á t-i maknú n ih), also uses
t h is Koranic vo cabul ary of re ve l ati on (nuz zil a, wh at was sent down of old).
12) Ishr á q-K há varí, ed., M á’id iy-i ás m ání, 4: 178, 180, 184, 187, 192, 194, 196 and 210.
13) This motif of Bahá’u’ lláh as the flutist blow ing through the re ed pipe is de ve lop ed more fully later towards the end of
h is Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak, wh e re it alludes to the op e n ing lines of Jalál al-D ín Rúmí ’s Mat hn aví y-i Ma‘n aví. The pen in
pre-mo dern times was also cut from bamboo re ed, like the flute, and carved on one end in to a nib, which was dipp ed in
ink. He nce, the pen and the pipe are both made of a hollow re ed .
14) For further in for m ati on ab out these Sufi orde rs in Ira q, see my “B ahá’u’ lláh’s Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak: in t ro duc ti on and
prov isi on al ve rse tran s l ati on” in B ahá’í St udies Re v i e w 9 (1999/2000), 109 –110, which in turn draws up on Ju an R. Col e ,
“B ahá’u’ lláh and the Na qs hb andi Su f is in Ira q, 1854–56 in J. Cole and Mo ojan Mom e n, ed s., From Iran East and We s t:
St udies in Bábí and Bahá’í His tory, vol. 2 (Los Ange l e s: Kal im at Press, 1984), pp 1-28, and the ar ticles “B ahâ al-D în
Na qs hb and” and “B ag hd ad i, Mawl ânâ Khâl id Ziâ al-D în” by Ham id Algar in E nc yc lopædia Iran i ca.
15) In poems with a refra in (radíf), the rhyme app ears as the fin al syll able in each line just pr i or to the re p eated refra in .
16) M á’id iy-i ás m ání, 4:194– 6. This first line would app ear to be a combin ati on of feet from the mud ár i‘ and muj tat h t h (or
p o s sibly sarí‘) mete rs, but does not con form to one of the acce p ted mete rs.
17) The te xt comes from M á’id iy-i ás m ání, 4: 209 –10.
18) Sa fr á’, or ye llow bile, is one the four humors in trad i ti on al Galenic med i cin e. Love si c kness was be l i e ved to re sult in an
e xcess of this bile, which would turn the pin ing love r’s face pale or jaund i ced. One of the other humors, sawd á’, or bl ac k
bile, is also a s s o ci ated with the melanc h olia of love si c kn e s s.
19) Ma s t ú r-i shayd á’í might be unde rs tood as one veil ed / h idden and mad (with love), or it might be unde rs tood as one veil ed
by the madness of love.
20) The theme and word ing of this line is sim il ar to the sente nce in which the way farer ente rs in to the Valley of Love in
B ahá’u’ lláh’s S e ven Vall e ys. Faw ran bi vádí y-i ‘is hq qad am gudhárad va az nár-i ‘is hq bi-g ud áz ad, and a bit further on, n ár-
i ‘is hq bar a frúz ad, which in the tran s l ati on of Mar zieh Gail and Ali Kuli Khan, The Seven Vall e ys and the Four Vall e ys
(Wilm e t te, IL: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1945), p. 8, reads, “...he shall stra i g h taway step in to the valley of Love and be dis-
s ol ved in the fire of love ,” and “the fire of love is abl az e.”
21) Mard-i ráh su g ge s ts a traveler on the Sufi pat h, one on the spir i t u al or even mys tic que s t.
22) Fa q r ( p ove r t y — being poor in the thin gs of the self and of this world) is a stati on along the Sufi pat h; Bahá’u’ lláh
inc ludes it as the seventh and fin al stati on in his S e ven Vall e ys, as Fa q r-i haqíqí va fan á-yi a s lí, “Tr ue Poverty and Ab s olute
Not h in g n e s s” in the Gail and Khan tran s l ati on, S e ven Vall e ys, p. 36. Line five alludes to the need to become f ání, usu-
ally tran s l ated in we s tern works on Su f ism as “ann ih il ated ,” but which Gail /K h an re nde red in its noun form fan á a s
“not h in g n e s s.” It may be more accurate to de s c r ibe this state as effacement of the ind iv idu al pers on ality in the Godh ead .
23) The word Bahá here would prob ably have been taken in Sul ay m aní yy ih as an allu si on to Bahá al-D ín Na qs hb and, a s
9 0

A Sh o rt Poem by “Da rv í s h” Mu h a m m a d
noted ab ove, since Bahá’u’ lláh was liv ing there inco g n i to as “D e rv ish Muh amm ad .”  Howe ve r, when shared with a Bábí
aud i e nce, as they later must have been in Bag hd ad, this would ce r ta inly have been seen as a refe re nce to Bahá’u’ lláh .
24) See the sim il ar theme of op e n ing one eye and clo sing the other in the H idden Word s, Pe rsi an #12 .
25) “H im” would app ear to allude to the div ine “Fr i e nd ,” who has un til now been veil ed in the Unseen Realm .
26) Da ftar m eans an album or small book, but seems to su g gest a sac red writing here, hence “Tabl e t ,” though the word s
u su ally so tran s l ated by Shoghi Effe ndi are l awh or s ú r ih.
27) Mu s h a f is ac t u ally a co dex, or a manuscript book, but it has a par ti cul ar a s s o ci ati on with the Koran or sac red scrip-
t ure, and is not the typi cal word for book (ki t á b). In Englis h, scroll seems to be t ter su g gest the sac red book (t hrough its
a s s o ci ati on with the Torah).
28) Bahá’u’ lláh here juxtaposes two terms from Islamic theolo gy, tawh íd (the a ff ir m ati on of the ab s olute unity of God; here
t ran s l ated as “a ff ir m ing the Div ine Unity” ), and taj ríd (sanc ti f i cati on of God from all at t r ibutes, and con te mpl ati on of
the ab s t ract div ine essence; here tran s l ated as “G o d’s sanc ti f i ed Essence” ). Bahá’u’ lláh pa irs these two words in the
rh y m ing posi ti on in line 63 of his Mat hn aví y-i Mubárak.
29) In this hemis ti c h, the meter of the poem chan ges to  | - -
|
- -
| - -
| - -
| . As noted ab ove, the classi cal
r ules of prosody do not allow for this var i ati on .
30) Caveat lec tor:  Man y, perh aps even most, of those who have publ is h ed “t ran s l ati on s” of Rumi ac t u ally know no Pe rsi an ;
they re work the tran s l ati ons already done by ot h e rs in to a par ti cul ar visi on and ve rsi on of wh at is poeti cally succe s sful .
It stands to rea s on that those wh o, out of ignorance, do not feel the con s t ra in ts and ambi g u i ties of the or i gin al lan g u age
are less apt to feel this te n si on be tween fidelity and poetic beaut y.
9 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
9 2

The Tablet of Un i t y
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i Itti˙ád)—A Provisional Translation
by Moojan Momen
T
he Tablet of Unity is a tablet of Bahá’u’ lláh deal ing with the subj ect of unity and de s c r ibing var i-
ous types of unity that may be at ta in ed .
It is usu ally con side red that this tablet be lon gs to the ‘Akká period.1 The tablet is stated to have be e n
addre s s ed to Sayy id Asadu’ lláh of Rasht, the fourth of five brot h e rs known as Sád á t-i Kham s. If this
at t r ibuti on is cor rect, and it seems to be we ll supp or ted in that it is given in seve ral source s ,2 t h is would
pl ace the tablet fir mly in the ‘Akká period since the five brot h e rs we re only con ve r ted by ‘A lí Ashra f
L áh íjání, known as ‘A nd alí b, in Rasht in ab out 1296 (c. 1879).3
At first, it may app ear con fu sing that there are seve ral addresses to the “p eople of the Bayán” wh e re
one would exp ect, in a tablet of the ‘Akká period, the “p eople of Bahá” to be addre s s ed. It must be
re m e mbe red, howe ve r, that Sayy id Asadu’ lláh of Rasht was par ti cul arly a ffec ted by Azali ac tiv i ties in
Qazv in. Sam and ar has de s c r ibed in his nar rative how, shortly a fter his con ve rsi on, Sayy id Asadu’ lláh
moved to Qazv in. He re, the Azalís dis cove red that he was a Bahá’í and at te mp ted to shake his faith. One
of them sent his son to be a servant in Sayy id Asadu’ lláh’s house and thus ob ta in ed an entrance to the
h ou s e. They then began to speak to Sayy id Asadu’ lláh un til they had cau s ed seve re doub ts to ar ise in his
m ind. Sam and ar became aware of the si t u ati on and a s ked to be present on an occa si on when the Azalís
we re at Sayy id Asadu’ lláh’s hou s e. Sam and ar then pro ce eded to an s wer them point by point from the te xt
of the Bayán. As a con s e que nce, Sayy id Asadu' lláh’s faith was re s tored .
The five brot h e rs we re merc h an ts and had ob ta in ed Ru s si an protec ti on. When Sayy id Asadu’ lláh
re t ur n ed to Rasht, he was able, to gether with one of his brot h e rs, to negoti ate a con t ract with the hold-
er of the Imp e r i al conce s si on for the sur faced road be tween Anz ali and Te hran for the prov isi on of trav-
e ll e r’s serv i ces along the route — re s t-h ouses, food, accommo d ati on, etc.  As a re sult of this he becam e
ve ry rich.
In this tablet, Bahá’u’ lláh deals with six types of un i t y. The word used for type is “r utb ah” in som e
pl aces and “m a qám” in ot h e rs.
A. Unity of Re l i gi on. Bahá’u’ lláh says that when the be l i e ve rs are un i ted, this leads to the victory of
the cause of God. Fur t h e r more, he a s s e r ts that if all of the people in a coun t ry are un i ted in re l i gi on,
the gove r nment of that coun t ry need in te r fe re ve ry little in the soci al a ffa irs of that coun t ry.
B. Unity of Word s. Bahá’u’ lláh app ears to re qu ire that the Bahá’ís be un i ted in their public posi ti on .
In other words, the message is that they should be one in the message that they give. He states that wh at
is sa id should be with wis dom and gives the example that he also uses in the Law ˙ -i Ma q ßúd of giv in g
m ilk to babe s. But ultim ate l y, Bahá’u’ lláh a s s e r ts that in this dis p e n sati on, it is de eds rather than word s
t h at will bring triumph to the Cause of God
C. Unity of Ri t u al Ac ts. Alt h ough it is te mp ting and possible to tran s l ate this as oneness of de eds or
ac ti ons, it would app ear, from the examples that he gives, that Bahá’u’ lláh has the specific mean ing of
r i t u al ac ts in mind when he writes of itti˙ád-i a‘m ál. He states that in Islam, diffe rent ways of doing the
r i t u als, such as the obl i gatory praye r, have led to diffe re nces ar ising among the be l i e ve rs and ultim ate l y
to disun i t y.
D. Unity of Rank or Station. By this Bahá’u’lláh means that the Bahá’ís should regard themselves as all
equal in rank. He states that it is the fact that some have regarded themselves superior to others that has
led to the weakening and downfall of other religions. In particular, he condemns the religious leaders.
9 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
E. Unity of Wealt h, and
F. Unity of Soul s. Bahá’u’ lláh con side rs these two un i ties to ge t h e r. He says that the mere shar ing of
wh at one has is not su ff i cient, one should prefer ot h e rs over on e s e l f. This is the way towards that un i t y
of souls, which is the ultim ate a im. A si t u ati on which Bahá’u’ lláh charac te r ises as being one wh e re “all
s h ould gather around and cling to the Love of God and the Word of God.”
Issues Raised
A number of imp or tant is sues are ra is ed by this tablet, is sues that are found ati on al to the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
It is of in te rest to see the way that the themes in i ti ated by Bahá’u’ lláh in this tablet we re later de ve lop ed
by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi.
1. Unity as a value. The first is sue ra is ed is the que s ti on of the value a s si g n ed to un i t y. One of the dis-
tinc tive feat ures of the Bahá’í re l i gi on is the fact that a higher value is pl aced on unity than on other val-
ues and pr inci ples that have had great imp or tance in re l i gi ous and secul ar his tory. When one is wan tin g
to make decisi ons and seeking guid ance in the scriptures of a re l i gi on, either as an ind iv idu al or as a
commun i t y, one fre quently finds oneself in a si t u ati on wh e re one value leads one to con te mpl ate on e
course of ac ti on, wh ile a diffe rent value leads one to propose a diffe rent course of ac ti on. In such si t u-
ati ons, it is nece s sary to set on e’s values in a hierarc h y.
In this tablet, Bahá’u’ lláh gives an evalu ati on of unity as a higher value than the fre edom to speak on e’s
m ind and put forth on e’s view.  This lat ter fre edom is accorded the ve ry highest posi ti on in the hierar-
chy of values of the We s tern libe ral Trad i ti on. Thus in this tablet Bahá’u’ lláh sets himself decisively apar t
from that Trad i ti on. There are pa s sages in the aut h or i tative Bahá’í te xts that assert the right of the ind i-
v idu al to express his or her views, pa s sages summ ar is ed by Shoghi Effe ndi thu s:
Let us also re m e mber that at the ve ry ro ot of the Cause lies the pr inci ple of the undoub ted right
of the ind iv idu al to self- e xpre s si on, his fre edom to dec l are his con s ci e nce and set forth his views.
(Shoghi Effe nd i, B ahá’í Adm in is t rati on, pp. 63–4)
In this tablet, howe ve r, Bahá’u’ lláh app ears to be say ing that this right of the ind iv idu al is a second ary
right and should be sub s e rvient to the higher pr inci ple of the need to main ta in unity in the commun i-
t y. In other words that one is free to express on e’s view as long as it is in a si t u ati on and under circum-
s tances wh e re the exe rcise of that right does not threaten the unity of the commun i t y. Otherw ise on e
must exe rcise pr ude nce (h ikm at).
We see this clearly set forth in this tablet but also in other tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh. It is followed up by
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá when he speaks of the fact that “If they ag ree up on a subj ect, even though it be wron g, it
is be t ter than to disag ree and be in the right, for this diffe re nce will pro duce the de mol i ti on of the
d iv ine found ati on .” (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá,  B ahá’í World Fa i t h, pp. 411–412). From this pr inci ple in the writin gs
of Bahá’u’ lláh, from this idea of the need for unity in speec h, we can also dis cern the ro ots of ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá’s rul ing that all Bahá’í writin gs should be subj ect to review as a te mp orary mea sure — t h is bein g
aga in a mat ter of ensur ing unity of speech in the commun i t y.
2. Stati on, Rank and Leade rship of the Commun i t y. The second is sue that is ra is ed in this tablet is that
of stati on and rank. In this tablet, perh aps more clearly than any other tablet, Bahá’u’ lláh emph a sises two
in te r re l ated teac h in gs that are ve ry dis tinc tive to his re l i gi on. The first is the proh ibi ti on on any re l i-
gi ous profe s si on als in the Bahá’í Faith. The second is ab s e nce of any ranking or stati ons in the Bahá’í
commun i t y. In this tablet Bahá’u’ lláh emph a sises that eve ry Bahá’í is to be regarded as being of equ al
rank to eve ry other Bahá’í. More imp or tan t l y, Bahá’u’ lláh urges the ind iv idu al Bahá’í not to con side r
h imself or herself sup e r i or in any way to fe llow-be l i e ve rs. No one should con sider themselves to be “more
l ear n ed, more favoured, more accompl is h ed, more righteous or more exalted” than any other Bahá’í.
An exte n si on of this teac h ing of the equ ality of rank of eve ry Bahá’í is the proh ibi ti on that Bahá’u’ lláh
m akes more clearly in other writin gs on any form of priesthood, mon a s ti cis m, or other forms of re l i-
gi ous leade rs h i p. Rank and stati on in e v i tably lead to pr ide and ar ro gance, and this pr ide bl inds one to
the truth. He nce it is that the ul am a of Iran have pers ecuted the followe rs of the re l i gi on of God. Shoghi
9 4

The Tablet of Un i t y
Effe ndi de ve lops this theme when he writes that those who are elec ted to adm in is ter the a ffa irs of the
B ahá’í community should:
They should never be led to suppose that they are the ce n t ral or n am e n ts of the body of the
Cause, in t r in si cally sup e r i or to ot h e rs in capacity or merit, and sole promote rs of its teac h in gs
and pr inci pl e s. They should approach their task with ext reme hum il i t y, and endeavour by their
op e n-m indedness, their high sense of justi ce and dut y, their candour, their mo de s t y, their entire
de voti on to the we l fare and in te re s ts of the fr i e nds, the Cause, and hum an i t y, to win not onl y
the con f ide nce and the ge nu ine supp ort and re s p ect of those wh om they should serve, but al s o
t h eir esteem and real a ffec ti on. (Shoghi Effe nd i, B ahá’í Adm in is t rati on, p. 64)
3. The Cove n an t. The third is sue that is touc h ed up on tan ge n ti ally in this tablet is that of the
C ove n an t.  Alt h ough the tablet does not refer directly to the is sue of the Cove n ant, we can see how
B ahá’u’ lláh’s concern for unity would ra ise the que s ti on of wh at was to be the fo cal point of unity and
loyalty in the new re l i gi on. Chr is ti anity was based around in te ll ec t u al loyalty to theolo gi cal and do c t r i-
n al for mul ati ons, which we re summ ar is ed in cre ed s. Islam was based around a more prac ti cal loyalt y
fo cu s s ed on a way of life for mul ated around the Sharí‘ah. What was to be the basis of the unity of
B ahá’u’ lláh’s re l i gi on ?
T h e re is also the mat ter of the third type of unity that Bahá’u’ lláh menti on s— unity of ritual ac ts. If
such a unity is to be ac h i e ved and yet the Bahá’í community is not to have the equ ivalent of pr i e s ts or
muj tah id s t h at can rule on such mat te rs, then the que s ti on of re l i gi ous aut h ority needs to be settled.
These que s ti ons we re an s we red by Bahá’u’ lláh through the establ is hment of the Cove n ant app oin tin g
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as the fo cal point towards which all Bahá’ís should turn. Bahá’u’ lláh saw this as the way of
ac h i e v ing the last unity that he de s c r ibed in this tabl e t—the unity of soul s.
Te xt used: Ad`iyyah Óa∂rat-i Ma˙búb (or i gin al ed i ti on: Faraj u’ lláh al-Kurdí, Egypt, 76 B. E . /1920 ;
re pr int Germany 1980), pp. 388 –406. Te xt also to be found in Mihr á bkhání, K hánd án Sád á t-i Kham s,
pp. 89 –93 (call i g raphy of Amanu’ ll ah Mu qin).
Provisional Translation
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i Itti˙ád)
He is God! Exalted be He in Wis dom and Exp o si ti on !
A letter has been received by this Wron ged One from one of the Sayy id s7 who have tur n ed toward s
God, have lis te n ed and re s p onded to their Lord, the Compa s si on ate, the All-B oun ti ful. All [of them] have
been re m e mbe red in the pre s e nce of this Re s pl e ndent Beauty and I ask God (Ó a q q) to con f irm [t h e m]
all in that which will cause them to be re m e mbe red for eve r.
T h ou hast a s ked ab out unity (i t ti˙ád). The first kind of unity is unity in re l i gi on. This unity has
al ways been the cause of the victory of the Faith of God in eve ry age and ce n t ury. To getherness is the
m ys tic sword of God. [p. 389]
For example, should a gove r nment see that most of the people of the coun t ry have rent a sunder the
veils and are tur n ing towards the hor iz on of Div ine re ve l ati on, it should re m a in silent and should lis te n
to wh at is sa id .
8 Each pers on who is at te n tive at ta ins to the knowl ed ge of God, except those who are
ut te rly dis tant from the Me rcy of God. They inde ed are fully de s e rv ing of an ger and vehement opp o si-
ti on. Such pers ons are, in any case, forbidden and bar red.
A nd another kind of unity is unity in speech. And this is ve ry nece s sary. For example, con sider that
if two of the chosen ones [p. 390] of God should come to a town and should speak ab out the same mat-
ter and disag ree, this would be the cause of disun i t y. It would cause them and those around them to be
de pr ived and deb ar red from the boun ties of unity which have been re veal ed by the Pen of the Lord of
Bein g. That which a ids the One Tr ue God has al ways been and is words (b ayán), but in this most mighty
d is p e n sati on, de eds and a go o dly charac ter are the hosts of the one Tr ue God and are re s p on sible for the
9 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
t r i umph of the Cau s e. If words are used to a due extent, they can be Div ine merc y, but if they exce ed s
t h at, they become the cause of de va s tati on. In our tabl e ts, we have exhor ted all with words within wh i c h
is conceal ed the effect of [p. 391] milk, such that it may educate the children of the world and cause them
to reach mat ur i t y. Words, in eve ry stati on, have an evident state and a clear effect, and there eman ate s
from them the frag rance of either good or evil.
A nd in another re s p ect unity in [r i t u al] ac ts in in te nded. For any diffe re nce in these is the cause of
d isun i t y. When this wron ged one was being exil ed from Zawrá (B ag hd ad) to Ed irne, we ente red a mo sque ,
on the way, wh e re we saw diffe rent forms of the obl i gatory prayer being perfor m ed. Alt h ough all we re
ag re ed on the words of the praye r, yet each was diffe rent from the other for some rea s on. If the peopl e
of the Qur’án [p. 392] had truly ac ted in accord ance with wh at was re veal ed in the Qur’án, then eve ry-
one on earth would have at ta in ed to the honour of becom ing a be l i e ve r. But diffe re nces in [r i t u al] ac ts
re sulted in diffe re nces in the cause, and this weake n ed the Cau s e. One group prays with hands clo s ed and
another with hands open; one group gives gre e tin gs wh ile say ing the shahád ah, wh ile another says “a s-
salám .” And be sides this, one group dances and says this is re m e mb rance of God. We take refu ge in God!
God is sanc ti f i ed and de tac h ed from any such re m e mb rance.
The Holy Law (S h arí‘ah) of the Me s s e n ger of God may be like n ed to an ocean [p. 393] from wh i c h
innum e rable gul fs branch out. And this is the cause of the weakness of the Sharí‘ah of God among the
p eopl e s. Until now no one, not kin gs nor subj ec ts nor the ind i gent have unde rs tood the rea s on for this ,
nor have they appreci ated how to rega in that power that has van is h ed and the lear n ing that has fall e n
away. Thus one gulf is Shí‘a, one gulf is Sunn i, one Shaykh i, another Shah Ni‘m at ulláh í, one Na qs hb and i,
another Malám atí, one Jalálí, another Ri f á‘í, and yet another Khár á bá tí. Thus are multi pl i ed the innu-
m e rable pat h ways [p. 394] to hell.  Thus do the stones weep and the Pen of the All-High lam e n ts. Seest
t h ou wh at has befallen a Sharí‘ah whose light illum in ed the world and whose fire, that is to say the fire
of its love, was the guide of its peopl e s. We ll is it with those who ponder up on these mat te rs and in ve s-
ti gate then and are fa ir in their jud ge m e n t. Thus did this diffe re nce in rituals become the cause of the
s h aking of the found ati ons of the Cause of God.
O people of the Bayán!  Lis ten to the call of this Wron ged One. Do not a fflict yours e l ves with the
l ike of wh at has happ e n ed to pre v i ous re l i gi on s. Ve r ily doth He re veal the evide nce and make clear the
s t raight path. Be ware of dis puting ab out wh at has been re veal ed from the heaven of the Will of Thy
L ord, the All-Powe r ful, [p. 395] the Alm i g h t y.
By the Ete r n al God! If a single pers on could be seen who spoke the truth or an upright pers on could
be found, this servant would not have spoken a word — in other words the One Tr ue God would not have
de l ive red him over to this people, that is to say the people of the Bayán. Let those possessed of in si g h t
take war n in g!
P urify and sanc tify your hear ts and your inner bein gs with the liv ing wate rs that flow forth from the
pen of the All-Me rci ful. And busy yours e l ves with a s sis ting the Cause with the hosts of good de eds, a
pl ea sing charac te r, and holy word s. Such is the ad v i ce of the One Tr ue God, exalted be His Maj e s t y,
which hath flowed forth from Pen of the All-High and been re veal ed in tabl e ts.
[ p. 396] Another type is the unity of rank or stati on. This re sults in the rising up of the Cause and its
e l e vati on among the peopl e s. But if ranking and prefe re nce of one over another comes in to its mid s t ,
the world falls in to ruin and de s ol ati on may be witnessed. Those souls who have dr unk from the sea of
the ut te rance of the All-Me rci ful and are tur n ing towards the All-High Hor iz on should see themselve s
as being of one rank and one stati on. Should this inj unc ti on be fir mly establ is h ed and be real is ed
t hrough the power and might of God, the world would be seen as the Abhá parad is e. Ve r ily hum an bein gs
are exalted, as can be found in eve ry Div ine scripture; but to con sider oneself as more lear n ed, more
favoured, [p. 397] more accompl is h ed, more righteous or more exalted is a mighty error and sin. We ll is
it with those souls who are ador n ed with the or n ament of this unity and are acce p ted before God. Look
at the ‘ul amá of Iran.  If they had not con side red themselves the most exalted and most accompl is h ed of
all bein gs, they would not have cau s ed those wre tc h ed followe rs of theirs to curse and bl a s pheme aga in s t
the Desire of the World s. All hum anity is dis m ayed, nay the entire world is be w ilde red, at these false and
9 6

The Tablet of Un i t y
n eg l ec tful soul s. The fire of pr ide and va in g lory has burnt them all, but they are not aware of it and do
not unde rs tand. They have not dr unk a drop of the ocean of knowl ed ge and unde rs tand in g. Woe un to
them [p. 398] and un to wh at their ton g ues have ut te red and un to wh at their hands have wrought on the
d ay of re t r ibuti on and on this day when the people have ar isen for the Lord of the World s.
If the Pen of the All-High we re to wish to de s c r ibe the types of unity in eve ry way and in eve ry a ffa ir
compl e te l y, it would be occupi ed for years. Another example is the unity of souls and of wealth and with
t h is example we will end our dis course on unity as a comm and from us, and We are the All-Powe r ful ,
the Uncon s t ra in ed. This unity is a unity which is the source of joy, happiness and delight, we re they to
know and unde rs tand. Let the neg l ec tful clerics [p. 399] not ask: “To wh om does this appl y?” It appl i e s
to all.
From this unity be n ef i ce nce ar is e s. And this be n ef i ce nce has been and is be loved in all of the hol y
b o oks of the past and fut ure. This be n ef i ce nce is in terms of wealt h, not an y t h ing either more or less
t h an this. “A nd they prefer [ot h e rs] over themselves, even though poverty become their lot. And they wh o
are saved from the avar i ce of their own souls, ve r il y, those are the ones who have at ta in ed [un to Thee].
(Cf. Qur’án 59:9)”9
T h is stati on goes be yond just equ al i t y. Equ ality is wh e re a hum an being does not deb ar his fe llow crea-
t ures from that which the One Tr ue God, exalted be His Glory, hast graci ously given him. He him s e l f
doth live at ease [p. 400] and he doth cause those like himself to live at ea s e. Such a stati on is inde ed
we ll loved since all will thus par take of ease and receive their share of the ocean of grace. But those that
prefer ot h e rs over themselves have a stati on that, in trut h, is ab ove this stati on, as has already been men-
ti on ed and wh at the All-Me rci ful has re veal ed in the Qur’án is pro of and evide nce of this.
O people of God! The most exalted Pen doth weep un to itself over wh at hath occur red in this con-
tin gent world. Mat te rs have reac h ed such a pass that a stag n ant pool claims to be the ocean and a liz ard
doth claim to be an eag l e.10 W h at hath occur red? What smoke hath encompa s s ed the world? [p. 401] Hat h
not the frag rance of this re ve l ati on been diffu s ed and dis tin g u is h ed itself from aught else? Cannot the
s t raight path be dis ce r n ed from the pat h ways of evil? No! By my life! The truth with all of its at t r ibute s
and ac ti ons is and al ways has been dis tin g u is h able from aught else and those who are possessed of
in sight have not and will not be mis taken over this.
The mean ing of the unity of souls is that all should gather around and cling to the Love of God and
the Word of God. Anyone possessed of wis dom and in sight will a ff irm the truth of that which hat h
flowed forth from the most exalted Pen.
These un i ties that We have menti on ed are each an army among the hosts of God, [p.402] a part of the
party of God, and a comm and that is part of the Dec ree of God. The unity of souls, from the begin-
n ing of creati on un til now, hath been and shall be that which doth a s sist and bring victory to the Tr ut h —
t h at is to say that unity that is establ is h ed accord ing to the Dec ree of God and His Law. In this stati on,
unity does not exce ed this deg re e.
T h e refore, take heed, O people of in si g h t! The most exalted Pe n, at this moment, doth exhort Its cho-
sen ones, one and all, to unity and har mony that, through this, may be man i fe s ted the Dec ree of God,
the He lp-in-Pe r il, the Self-Sub sis tin g. Sim il arly with wis dom; some of the fr i e nds of God have not
ob s e rved wis dom and have [p. 403] neg l ec ted its imp or tance. In some lands they have become the cau s e
of uph eaval. Lis ten to the call of this Wron ged One and act accord ing to wh at has been re veal ed in the
tabl e ts. For as long as thou hast not found a lis te n e r, do not open thy mouth. And if thou dost not see
a good and bl e s s ed soil, do not de p o sit the seed of wis dom. The word of God should only be cast wh e n
the ear and the in sight is ready to receive it and sim il arly the soil [of the hear t]. Some have, at tim e s ,
s p oken words that dam age the ro ot of the tre e.
Say: O peopl e! Follow God and do not be of those who do evil. [p. 404] Fear God and do not be of
those who are ignoran t! Bar ren ground is not su i table for grow ing vege tati on and the ear of in f idelity is
not worthy of hear ing word of the Unity of God.
O People of God! From the most exalted Pen hath flowed forth that which is the cause of the life of
the world. Eve ryone must med i tate up on God and in par ti cul ar up on the Unity of God. Let it not be
9 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
t h at, like un to the peoples before you who spoke the words but re m a in ed be reft of their mean in g, bein g
wors h i pp e rs of names and de votees of idol s. Despi te this, they accoun ted themselves as being among the
uph olde rs of the Unity of God and among the people of ce r ti t ude. The One Tr ue God hath dec re ed that
wh at was hidden [p. 405] of the ac ti ons and re wards of these people on the day of re t urn should be
re veal ed; that their elevati on, their rank, their stati on and the extent of their be l i ef in the Oneness of
God should all become clear and man i fest to the people of the world.
O my nam e! Con vey to the fr i e nds of God the gre e tin gs of this Wron ged One and counsel them
accord ing to wh at God hath exhor ted in scriptures and tabl e ts. We ll is it with those who have emigrat-
ed in the path of God un til they ente red this most might Pr is on. They have acce p ted all for the sake of
God and have tur n ed themselves toward God. Their re ward is with Him who hath for m ed them and cre-
ated them, hath prov ided for them, a s sis ted them, taught them and hath cau s ed them to speak forth in
m e n ti on and pra ise of Him. Ve r il y, He [p. 406] hast power over all thin gs. May the glory shin ing for t h
from the Hor iz on of the heaven of My Me rcy be up on them wh om God hath enabl ed to act in accor-
d ance with that which hath been re veal ed in His firm and un s h ak able Book.
Pra ise be to God, the Lord of the World s! We ask Him, exalted be He, at the end of this tablet, to con-
f irm them, a s sist them and rein force them with the hosts of the Unseen and of the seen and to give them
v i c tory in His Cau s e. Ve r il y, He is Powe r ful to do wh at He willeth and in His grasp are the reins of all
t h in gs. There is none other God but He, the One, the Mi g h t y, the All-I n for m ed.
Note s
1) Tah e r z ade h, Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, vol. 4, p. 191
2) Tah e r z ade h, Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, vol. 4, p. 191. Maz and ar ání, Zuhúr al-Ha q q, vol. 6, p. 941
3) Rú˙u’ lláh Mihr á bkhání, K hánd án Sád á t-i Kham s (G e r m an y: ‘Aß r-i Jadíd, 1994) p. 13
4) Sam and ar, Táríkh Sam and ar (Te hran, 131 B. E . /1974), pp. 250–51
5) Maz and ar ání, Zuhúr al-Ha q q, vol. 6, p. 940–41. Mihr á bkhání, K hánd án Sád á t-i Kham s, p. 43–7
6) This mat ter is exp ounded on at greater length is seve ral other tabl e ts, inc lud ing the Law ˙ -i Óikm at, see Tabl e ts of
B ahá’u’ lláh, p. 143
7) This tablet was addre s s ed to Sayy id Asadu’ lláh of Rasht, the fourth of five brot h e rs known as Sád á t-i Kham s.
8) There are two ways of read ing this sente nce. One way would be to read this sente nce as say ing that, if the maj ority of a
n ati on became Bahá’ís, then the Bahá’í teac h in gs can be impl e m e n ted by the gove r nm e n t. The second way to read the sen-
te nce leads to the idea that once the people we re follow ing the path lain down by God, they would be able to steer their
own path and would need little con t rol and guid ance from the ce n te r. If this second read ing is cor rect, it was taken fur-
ther by Shoghi Effe ndi when he laid down the pr inci ple that the Bahá’í community should, as far as possible op e rate in
a dece n t ral iz ed mann e r. This pr inci ple has been put in to effect by the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce as it has gradu all y
de vol ved re s p on sibility for the creati on and executi on of expan si on pl ans from the in te r n ati on al level to the nati on al leve l
and inc rea singly to the lo cal level.
9) Qur’án 59:9 is ide n ti cal except the last word is mu fl i˙ú n (succe s sful) in the Qur’án and f á’izú n (those who have at ta in ed)
in this te xt.
10) It is possible that the te xt here is cor r upt since the usu al expre s si on is a gnat (dh abb) rather than a liz ard (∂ abb) in com-
par is on to an eag l e.
9 8

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning
the Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
by Moojan Momen
Abstract
T
h is paper is a tran s l ati on and comm e n tary up on a work of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in which he give a mys ti-
cal comm e n tary up on the first few words of the thir tieth Sú rah of the Qur’án, the Sú rah of Rúm.
These words refer to the ove r t hrow of the By z an tin e s. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá gives the stand ard Mu s l im com-
m e n tary up on these ve rs e s. Despi te the fact that these ve rses have an ob v i ous outward mean in g, ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá goes on to give nine esoteric or mys ti cal in te r pre tati ons of the word “al-R ú m” and of the phra s e
“The By z an tines have been ove r t hrow n .” In the last of these in te r pre tati ons, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá de l in eates the
d i ffe rent types of soul: min e ral, vege table, an im al, hum an and the Soul of Láhút, the realm of the Pr im al
Man i fe s tati on. With regard to the hum an soul, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá also lis ts the nine stages in its a s ce n t. These
con sist of the comm and ing soul, the bl am ing soul, the in s pired soul, the a s sured soul, the acce p tin g
s oul, the acce p ted soul, the perfect soul, the soul of the Kin gdom of God (Mal ak út) and the soul of the
Realm of Div ine Comm and (Jab arút). This last is the ultim ate goal in the world of creati on. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
de s c r ibes these stages in the a s cent of the hum an soul and how pro g ress may be made from one to the
ot h e r. This work of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá thus performs two func ti on s. It establ ishes the pr inci ple that the Word
of God has many mean in gs some of which are exte r n al and ob v i ous wh ile ot h e rs are hidden and mys ti-
cal. It is also a manu al or guide to Bahá’í mys ti cism in that lays out the pat h way or stages for the a s ce n t
of the soul from its lowest state of abasement and preo ccupati on with the thin gs of the world to its high-
est state wh e re the hum an qu al i ties are effaced and only the div ine at t r ibutes are man i fest in the ind i-
v idu al, the state wh e re it becomes aware of the sec re ts of hidden and in v isible real i ti e s.
Commentary
The work that is the subj ect of this paper is a lengthy tablet of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in which he gives an
e xte n sive comm e n tary on the op e n ing words of the thir tieth Sú rah of the Qur’án, the Sú rah of Rúm.
I nde ed most of the tablet is taken up with var i ous in te r pre tati ons of a single word in this Sú rah, the word
t h at also forms the title of the Sú rah: ar-Rúm. While the word is ob v i ously de r ived from the word Rom e ,
in the con te xt of the Arabia of the time of the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad, “Rom e” meant the new Rome estab-
l is h ed by the Emp e ror Con s tan tine on the Bosph orus, the city that he made his capi tal and which at this
time was pro s p e r ing even as the old Rome on the Tiber was struggling for surv ival under wave a fter wave
of the barb ar i an tribes that had brought the Dark Ages to Europ e. Thus the word “ar-R ú m” is best tran s-
l ated as “By z an ti um” or “the By z an tin e s.”
The op e n ing two ve rses and one phrase up on which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá comm e n ts in this tablet begin imm e-
d i ately a fter the dis conn ec ted lette rs “Alif Lam Mim”:
2. The By z an tines have been ove r t hrow n
G hul ib at ar-R ú m
3. In a land close by; but they (e ve n) a fter (t h is) defeat of theirs will be victor i ou s
Fí adná al-‘ard. Wa-hum min ba‘di ghal abih im sa-yag hl ibú n
9 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
4. Wi t h in a few years...
Fí bi∂‘  sinín
These ve rses refer to ce r ta in his tor i cal eve n ts that occur red dur ing the min is t ry of Muh amm ad. In
ab out the year 614, the Pe rsi an King Khu s raw (C h o s ro e s) Parv iz at tac ked the By z an tines in Syria and to ok
Dam a s cu s. By 616, he had occupi ed Egypt and most of Asia Minor. He even be si eged Con s tan tinople for
a tim e. News of these eve n ts reac h ed Mecca wh e re Mu ˙ amm ad was under great pre s sure from his ad ve r-
saries, the idol ators of Mecca. What then occur red is recoun ted in Islamic Trad i ti ons thu s:
The Mu s l ims we re wan ting the By z an tines, because they we re people of the Book, to defeat the
Pe rsi ans and the unbe l i e ve rs we re wan ting the Pe rsi ans, because they we re idol-worships, to defeat the
By z an tin e s.1
It is re l ated that, a fter the re ve l ati on of this ve rse, Abu Bakr even laid a bet with the unbe l i e ve rs that
the Pe rsi ans would in turn be defeated, but he sa id that it would be in five years. When this did not occur,
he que s ti on ed the Prophet ab out this and Muh amm ad re pl i ed that the word “bi∂‘” means be tween thre e
and ten. A few years later in 622 the victory of the By z an tines occur red.
Sim il arl y, a Shi‘i account gives the same story:
The Pe rsi ans ove r t hrew the By z an tines and we re victor i ous over them in the time of the
Me s s e n ger of God (PBUH ). The unbe l i e ve rs of Mecca we re happy at this in that the Pe rsi ans we re
not people of the Book; and the Mu s l ims we re unh appy ab out this. Jerusalem was for the
By z an tines like Mecca is for Mu s l ims and the Pe rsi ans had dr iven them back from it.2
The tablet can be dated to the period before the pa s sing of Bahá’u’ lláh, since Bahá’u’ lláh menti ons it
in a tablet dating from the ‘Akká period, and addre s s ed to a ce r ta in ‘Abd al- G h aní. Bahá’u’ lláh states that
a que s ti on ab out these ve rses had been a s ked and that alt h ough a comm e n tary on these ve rses had alread y
been re veal ed by the Báb, Bahá’u’ lláh comm anded ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá to an s wer the que s ti on e r.
It is not howe ver ce r ta in from read ing the tablet that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s cor re s p ondent was a Bahá’í. He
m ay we ll have been from among Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s wide circle of Mu s l im ac qu a in tance s.
T h e re are no overt refe re nces to the Bahá’í Faith or the Bahá’í teac h in gs in the tabl e t. Alt h ough there are
a few refe re nces to the greatness of “t h is day,” these are vag ue enough that they could we ll have been writ-
ten to a Mu s l im cor re s p ondent without occa si on ing comm e n t. If this specul ati on is cor rect, then it is
also possible to say that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s cor re s p ondent was prob ably a Sunn i, rather than a Shi‘i, and there-
fore also prob ably non-I ran i an. This is clear from the lack of the usu al Shi‘i refe re nces and honor i f i c s
t h at would ot h e rw ise have been within the te xt if it had been written to a Shi‘i . Thus, in summ ary, it is
p o s sible that this tablet be lon gs along with A Trave ll e r’s Nar rative and The Sec ret of Div ine Civ il iz ati on
among those tabl e ts written by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá dur ing Bahá’u’ lláh’s life time and in te nded pr im ar ily for a
non-B ahá’í aud i e nce, and in this case, a Sunni aud i e nce.
In this tablet, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá gives some ten mean in gs in all for the word “al-R ú m” and for the phra s e
“G hul ib at ar-R ú m” (the By z an tines have been ove r t hrow n), wh ile in a few of these ten mean in gs, he
e xte nds the comm e n tary to the re m a in ing word s: “in a land close by; but they (e ve n) a fter (t h is) defeat of
t h eirs will be victor i ous within a few years.”
As most people are aware, the Qur’án itself lays down the param e te rs for the writing of comm e n tar i e s
up on it. It states that the te xt of the Qur’án is div ided in to two par ts, those ve rses that are clear in mean-
ing and those ab out which there is doub t.
He it is that hath sent down un to thee the Book. In it are ve rses with firm mean in g
(mu ˙ k am á t)—they are the found ati on of the Book (lite rally the Mother of the Book, umm l-
ki t á b)—and other ve rses that are of unce r ta in mean ing (muta s há bihá t). Those in whose hear ts
t h e re is a cro okedness follow that part which is unce r ta in seeking to cause dis s e n si on and try-
ing to expl a in it. But none knows its expl an ati on except God and those who are fir mly ground-
ed in knowl ed ge. (Qur’án 3:7)
1 0 0

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
Of course the ide n tity of “those who are fir mly grounded in knowl ed ge” has been a mat ter of deb ate.
For Shi‘is, it is the Imams who fill this rol e ,
4 wh ile for Su f is it is usu ally their shaykh who is regarded in
t h is light.
It is of some con side rable in te rest that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has chosen to write a highly mys ti cal comm e n tary
on a te xt which refe rs to a clear his tor i cal eve n t. In other words, it is not a ve rse that would ord in ar il y
be regarded as one of the ve rses that are of unce r ta in mean ing (muta s há bihá t), but rather as one of the
ve rses with firm mean ing (mu ˙ k am á t). Alt h ough some doubt has been expre s s ed ab out the voi ce of the
ve rb in 30:2 (see be low), this is expre s s ed as a minority view and there is, in any case no doubt that the
ve rse refe rs to a specific his tor i cal eve n t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá then gives ten in te r pre tati ons of these ve rses, the first being the outward his tor i cal cir-
cum s tances as de s c r ibed ab ove. The next nine are esoteric or mys ti cal in te r pre tati on s. Esoteric in te r-
pre tati ons of this te xt are not unknown. The follow in g, for example, is from the Ta fs ír of ‘Abd al-Raz z á q
al-Kás hání (which is often at t r ibuted to Ibn al-‘A rabí):
The Pr im al Essence with the at t r ibutes of knowl ed ge and pr im ac y, just as He hath sa id. It
re qu ires that the “R ú m” of spir i t u al power be ove r t hrown in the nearest of pl aces to the ear t h
of the soul (n a fs), which is the breast (ß adr), for the out p our in gs (fay∂) of the Pr im al Source
n ece s si tates the app earance of the creati on, and through this conceals the Ab s olute Real i t y. And
all that is closest to the Ab s olute is ove r t hrown by that which is closest to the creati on. And this
is the effect of the name of the Origin ator in the man i fe s tati on of the or i gins [of creati on] and
the efful ge nces of the All-High up on it, and also of His name the Man i fest (Ω áh ir) and of His
n ame the Creator, and, in summ ary, of wh ate ver names are in His Pr im al Pre s e nce. And “t h e y
w ill a fte rward s”—a fter their being ove r t hrow n, “they will ove r t hrow” the Pe rsi ans of the hum an,
veil ed, foreign powe rs by re t ur n ing to God and man i fe s ting victory.5
A lt h ough there are such examples of mys ti cal comm e n tary on this pa s sage, the present aut h or is not
aware of any mys ti cal comm e n tary of the length and depth of this work of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has nine mys ti cal or esoteric in te r pre tati on of these ve rs e s. The follow ing is a summ ary
of these:
1. “R ú m” signifies the exis tent real i ties and those veils which is sue forth as a re sult of the speci f i ca-
ti ons of exis te nce. “O ve r t hrow n” refe rs to the ove rcom ing and van is h ing of these with the com ing of
the Man i fe s tati on of God.
2. “R ú m” signifies the forces of self and pa s si on and the peoples of ignorance and bl indness wh i c h,
h owe ve r, a s sist the Man i fe s tati on of God when he app ears and, in doing this are “ove r t hrow n” and ove r-
wh e lm ed, which then becomes the source of their spir i t u al growth.
3. “R ú m” signifies those souls who turn their faces seeking enl i g h te nment when the Man i fe s tati on of
God app ears. They purify the mir rors of their hear ts and draw near to the rays of that noble light. They
lo ok to their Lord with rad i ant snow-wh i te rej oi cing coun te n ances (for the By z an tines we re con side red
by the Arabs to have wh i te compl e xi ons and redd ish hair). “O ve r t hrow n” refe rs to the fact that God send
them trials and diff i culties at the hands of the enemies of God. They in turn will ove rcome these te s ts
and diff i culti e s.
4. “R ú m” signifies the Div ine ord in ances, laws and dec re e s. In the days of the in te rval be twe e n
Me s s e n ge rs of God, the people te nd to cast the laws of God a side and establ ish a rule of ignorance. Thu s
are the holy and div ine laws “ove r t hrow n” among the peopl e. But a fter a time, a new Man i fe s tati on of
God app ears and the law of God is re- e s tabl is h ed.
5. “R ú m” signifies the real i ties of thin gs and their essences (m áh iyyá t) and the capacity of created
t h in gs and their pote n ti al i ti e s. And the mean ing of “ove r t hrow n” is that the Div ine out p our in gs and
efful ge nces pervaded these real i ties, fill ed them, and sur rounded them from all direc ti ons, both in ward-
ly and outwardl y, on the Day when the Man i fe s tati on of God app ears. For on that day, God does not lo ok
at the capacity of souls and their pre paredn e s s. Rat h e r, He pours forth up on them His Grace and
Be n ef i ce nce even if they have no capaci t y.
1 0 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
6. “R ú m” signifies specul ative opin i on and lo gi cal pro ofs, which in the days pr i or to the app earance
of the Man i fe s tati on of God are the only pro ofs ava il able to people for the exis te nce of God. When,
h owe ve r, the Man i fe s tati on of God app ears, the veils of such specul ative thought and rea s on ing are re n t
a sunder and the bann e rs of pro ofs and in tim ati ons are un furl ed. “A l-Rúm was defeated”: that is to say the
drops of the wate rs of specul ative opin i on and rea s on ing van is h ed in the face of the billow ing oceans of
the re ve l ati ons and te s timonies of  the Man i fe s tati on of God him s e l f.
7. “R ú m” signifies the bodily stages and real i ties of this ear t hly realm, to gether with their accide n ts
and speci f i cati on s. And: “A l-Rúm was ove r t hrow n” means that the bodily stages pass away with the man-
i fe s tati on of Word of God. Thus are the bodily thin gs ove r t hrown and dom in i on be lon gs to the thin gs
of the spir i t.
8. “R ú m” signifies the idle fancies and va in im agin in gs in the hear ts of ord in ary people for these have
supreme sove reignty among the people dur ing the days of the ab s e nce of the Man i fe s tati on of God.
When the Man i fe s tati on comes, howe ve r, he cause the darkness of idle fancies and va in im agin in gs to
d isapp ear.
9. “R ú m” signifies the stages of the soul and the states thereof, its deg rees, its elevati on and dim inu-
ti on, its a s cent and its fall.
These stages are de s c r ibed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as con sis ting of the follow in g:
I. Min e ral soul — which is static in nat ure and does not de ve lop.
II. Vege tative Soul—the feat ures of which are that it grows and de ve lop s.
III. Anim al Soul — which senses its environm e n t.
IV. Hum an Soul—the rati on al soul within which ar ise the powe rs of the hum an bein g, the outer and
inner senses, knowl ed ge, sci e nces, ar ts, and wis dom. It is also the pl ace wh e re dark pa s si ons and ear t h-
ly fa il in gs app ear. The hum an soul has the follow ing stage s:
a. the comm and ing soul—the soul that comm ands to evil — is preo ccupi ed with the triv i al i ties of
t h is world, and is in fat u ated with evil and eph e m e ral de sire s.
b. the bl am ing soul — which becomes aware of the de p t hs of its deg rad ati on and of its re mote n e s s
from its true goal. It awakes to a perce p ti on of its state, is fill ed with reg ret and  bl ames its e l f
for the de p t hs of perve rsity and error to which it has sunk.
c. the in s pired soul —as it rises from its lowly cond i ti on, the soul comes to unde rs tand those
t h in gs that kept it ab a s ed and those thing which will lead to its elevati on. It becomes ave rse to
those thin gs that perish and to inc l ine towards those thin gs that endure. It is te r m ed the in s pired
s oul for it is in s pired as to that which on the one hand leads to de pravati on and on the other to
r i g h teou s n e s s.
d. the a s sured soul — t h is is the stage at which the soul is in re m e mb rance of its Lord and sees the
signs of God in the creati on. As a re sult it is a s sured in its fa i t h, its tur moil and unrest is
calm ed, it has que nc h ed its thirst, soot h ed its tor m e n t; it has chan ged its darkness to light and
unloaded its burde n s.
e. the acce p ting soul — reaches a stati on of sub m is si on and con tentment, leav ing be h ind its
s earc h ing and need in e s s. It entrusts its a ffa irs to God and is con tent with wh ate ver God may
dec ree for it. This is a happiness that is not followed by sadn e s s. There re m a ins no will, no re s t ,
no moti on, no de s tiny nor any fate except in God.
f. the acce p ted soul — in this state all- e ncompa s sing bl e s sin gs and mercy reach it. Insofar as it has
r isen and left be h ind its pa s si ons and acce p ted the dec ree of its Lord, it becomes acce p ted in the
sight of God, and in its state of not h ingness, it is approved by its Creator.
1 0 2

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
g. the perfect soul — h e re it is charac te r iz ed by div ine perfec ti ons and compr is ed of go dly at t r ib-
ute s. It thus becomes the fo cal point of in s pirati on and the daw n in g-pl ace for the Div ine  efful-
ge nce s.
h. the soul of the Kin gdom of God (Mal ak út)— h e re the soul con f irms in its reality the profe s-
si on of Div ine Unity  and establ ishes in its essence the sign of de tac hm e n t. It at ta ins to eve r-
l a s ting life and ete r n al liv in g. It takes pl ea sure from de l i g h ts the like of which no eye has seen
nor any ear heard .
i. the soul of the Realm of Div ine Comm and (Jab arút)— t h is is a stati on far ab ove the unde r-
s tand ing of the minds of men, for this stati on is created out of the elements of powe r, aut h or i-
t y,  sove rei g n t y, omn i p ote nce, and fre edom and not h ing that has lim i tati ons or plural i ties has
any re s e mbl ance to it. He re the soul becomes aware of the sec re ts of hidden and in v isible real i-
ti e s. This is the ultim ate goal in the world of creati on .
V. Div ine Soul—the soul of the realm of Pr im al Man i fe s tati on (L áhut)—it is the Unive rsal Real i t y
which brin gs to gether all of the re veal ed Div ine real i ties,  the Pr im al Point from which app ear all thin gs
and to which they re ve r t. From it there app ears plurality through man i fe s tati on and illum in ati on, and it
becomes div ided, dis p e rs ed and man i fold, and rad i ate s. This stati on and this soul are compl e tely and for-
e ver be yond the reach of hum an bein gs.
In re l ati on to his comm e n tary on the ove r t hrow of “R ú m,” ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says that it means, in this con-
te xt, that as the hum an soul a s ce nds stage by stage, it ove r t hrows the cond i ti ons of the lower stage in
order to at ta in the higher stage.
It can thus be seen that not only has ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá given nine spir i t u al or esoteric in te r pre tati ons of
t h is sente nce of the Qur’án but he has done so in re l ati on to only one event in spir i t u al reality—the com-
ing of the Man i fe s tati on of God. Pre sum ably ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá could have given further in te r pre tati ons of
t h is ve rse re l ating to other a s p ec ts of spir i t u al real i t y.
With regard to the stages of the hum an soul, the first three or four (the comm and ing soul, the bl am-
ing soul, the in s pired soul and the a s sured soul) are fa irly commonly re p eated among Sufi aut h ors and
those in the trad i ti on of mys ti cal ph ilo s ophy in Islam .6 The re m a in ing ones are rarely found alt h ou g h
not unknow n .7
At the end of this tablet, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá refe rs to an alte r n ative read ing of this Quranic pa s sage that
would put the first ve rb in to the ac tive voi ce and the second ve rb in to the pa s sive. The pa s sage would
then read:
The Byzantines have been victorious (have overthrown [the Persians]), but they, after this victory
(ove r t hrow) of theirs, will be defeated within a few years.
The comm e n taries give this as an alte r n ative read ing and state that the circum s tances in which this
read ing would have occur red refer to the time of the Battle of Badr when refe r r ing to the victory that
h ad by then occur red of the Rom ans over Pe rsi ans, the Qur’án pred i c ts that the Rom ans too will be
defeated by the Mu s l im armies within a few years.
The te xt of the tablet that has been used for this tran s l ati on is to be found in Mak á tíb ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá,
vol. 1, pp. 62–102.
Provisional Translation
He is the All- G lor i ou s!
Pra ise be to Thee, O Lord! O my God! Out of Thy Bounty and Me rc y, Thou hast cau s ed the wate rs of
e xis te nce to de s ce nd from the heaven of Thy Oneness and Thou hast cau s ed the showe rs of Thine Ete r n al
B oun ties to ra in down from the clouds of the heaven of Thy Mighty Oneness un til, through this mo s t
mighty Be n ef i ce nce, the rive rs of Thy most wondrous Grace flowed forth up on the soil of all possibl e
1 0 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
e xis tent real i ties in Thine act of Creati on. All lands and regi ons we re wate red by these stream in g, heav-
e nly rive rs. Eve ry hill and city was inund ated by these tor re n ti al ce l e s ti al flo o d s. And then there shon e
forth [63] up on them the sun of Thy Me rcy from the hor iz on of Thy holy Mi g h t. And the gra ins, O my
God, of Thine Exalted Word and Thy Most Mighty Ve rses we re sown in the earth of hum an capacity by
Thy great Grace and Favour.
These exis tent real i ties, howe ve r, became diffe re n ti ated and dive rged through the efful ge nces of the
Sun of Thy most great Nam e. Some of them, O my God, just as Thou hast rec kon ed accord ing to Thy
s ec ret knowl ed ge, are pure and ref in ed hear ts up on which that Sun impr in ted its signs and from wh i c h
t h e re app eared traces of its efful ge nce. It hath stir red up and fe r til is ed their soil and there hath grow n
forth from them the myrtles of love and knowl ed ge of Thee. They have been ador n ed by the sac red blo s-
s oms of year n ing for and at t rac ti on towards Thee as like a bl e s s ed and fe r tile land. Some, howe ve r, O
my God, we re soil ed hear ts ob s cured by the rust of their va in im agin in gs, veil ed from their Lord by the
veils of darkn e s s. No trace app ears among  them of the efful ge nces of that sun nor of the signs of the
One Who hath created and ord a in ed it. Up on their soil, the gra in of the menti on of their Lord is as up on
de s ol ate and bar ren land. Thou art not, howe ve r, O my God, neg l ec tful in Thine efful ge nces up on the
c reati on and the app earance of Thy signs among exis tent real i ties, as Thou hast sa id, and Thy word is
the truth: “No fault canst thou see in the creati on of the All-Me rci ful (67:3)” and “Your creati on and your
re sur rec ti on is but as a single soul (31:28).
At this time, I ask of Thee by Thy Name, which we re it to be cast up on the moun ta ins, they would
c r umble in to dust and flow away [64], we re it to be scat te red up on the seas, they would ove r flow, we re
it to be thrown up on shr ive ll ed branches, they would turn green and flowe r, and up on the bl ind, they
would see, and up on the dumb, they would speak, and up on the dea f, they would hear, and up on the dead ,
they would ar ise, that Thou mayest lift the veils which in te rvene be tween Thee and Thy creat ures and
which pre vent them from ente r ing in to the we ll s pr ing of Thy Me rc y, from setting out on the pat h way of
Thy mighty Oneness, from hearke n ing to the melodies of the birds of Thy throne, and from dr inkin g
from the chal i ce of Thy love and knowl ed ge of Thee. Ve r il y, they are the lowly at Thy gate and the need y
before the man i fe s tati on of Thy wealth. For themselves they seek to ac qu ire neither be n efit nor har m,
n either life nor re sur rec ti on. Ra ise then, O my God, these pure souls to Thee and cause them to a s ce nd
with the win gs of Div ine Unity in to the clouds of the highest heaven (‘am á’) of the glory (b ahá) of Thy
Sin g l e n e s s. Shine forth up on them at eve ry in s tant with wh at Thou wishest to be s tow up on these com-
p ounded real i ties and these sac red hear ts, for there is neither beginn ing nor end to signs of Thee, nor a
f irst or last to Tokens of Thee. Wert Thou to shed Thy spl e ndour up on the since re ones among Thy crea-
t ures at eve ry in s tant in all of Thy man i fold ways, no reduc ti on would there be in Thine Ancient Ri c h e s ,
nor any dim inuti on in Thy Hidden Trea sure s.
A nd so, O my God, be merci ful to Thy needy servan ts. Cause them to be seated be n eath the tree of
[ p. 65] Thy Me rcy and fe ed them from the table that Thou hast sent down from the heaven of Thy glo-
r i ous Oneness. For ve r ily Thou are the Tr ue Giver and Thou art the Forgiv in g, the Me rci ful .
T h ou knowest, O my God, that this servant is the neediest of all the servan ts in Thy realm and is the
lowliest of Thy creat ures in Thy land s. How then, with such ab s olute pove r t y, is it possible for me to
e xpl a in the incor p orated and hidden mean in gs within the real i ties of Thy words and the sec re ts wh i c h
T h ou hast hidden from the eyes of the mys tic knowe rs be h ind the tabe r n acle of Thy word. Since, how-
e ve r, Thou hast comm anded me, I take up my pen trusting in Thee and re l y ing up on Thy Bounty and
Me rc y. For Thou hast will ed, O my God, that there flow forth from this eph e m e ral pen the seas of Thy
K nowl ed ge and the oceans of Thy sec re ts. Thou dost not wish that the ton g ue of the Supreme Pen be
silent am idst the concourse of Thy creat ures nor that the outflow ing boun ties of the Ancient Beauty be
cut off from the peopl e s. The comm and is Thin e. Thou doest as Thou de sirest and Thou ord a ineth wh at
T h ou pl easeth and the limit Thou hast set is: No God is there but Thee, the Powe r ful, the Mi g h t y, the
A ll-B oun ti ful.
O dis tin g u is h ed and exce llent que s ti on e r! Know thou that from within eve ry one of the Words of
God, there surge forth oceans of hidden mean in gs, without numbe r, and that from within eve ry letter of
the ve rses of thy Lord, there shine forth the suns of sec re ts, heave nly signs and trut hs, that none can
1 0 4

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
number except God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy fat h e rs before you. [p. 66] That being the case how is
it possible for ink to flow forth with these hidden mean in gs, even we re there to be oceans of it, and how
would sheets of paper su ff i ce, even we re they to be as exte n sive as the hor iz on? There is no end to this
most great gi ft and no beginn ing to this most great mercy for it to be exhau s ted. Just as [G o d] says, and
H is word is the truth: “We re the ocean to be ink for the words of my Lord, ve r ily that ink would be
e x h au s ted ere the words of my Lord we re exhau s ted, even we re a sim il ar amount of ink added to it”
(Qur’án 18:109). Howe ve r, even if all of it cannot be menti on ed, all of it need not be left out ei t h e r.
T h e refore I can menti on some of the hidden and sec ret mean in gs stream ing from the tor re n ts of the
words of your Lord, the Exalted, the Mi g h t y.
K now thou that these holy ve rses and heave nly sounds hav ing mean in gs that are outer (Ω áh ir) and
inner (bá † in) and also the inner of the inner (bá † in al-bá tin) and so forth endl e s s l y. For the words of
God are mir rors encompa s sing (muh í† ah) the forms (su war) of all thin gs. Thus is it that [G o d] says:
“T h e re is not h ing dry nor wet but that it is [in s c r ibed] in a pers pi cuous Book.” (Qur’án 6:59)
1] And as for the outer mean in g, God hath announced [in this surah] the de s t r uc ti on of the might of
the Pe rsi ans and the victory and triumph of  By z an ti um [Rom e], a fter the By z an tines had been defeated
and brought to naught at the hands of the Pe rsi an s— t h eir unity had been sunde red and their all i ance s
d is p e rs ed. The expl an ati on of this is that in the days when the sun of Div ine Oneness was shin ing from
the Mu ˙ amm ad an point and the bann e rs of guid ance we re ra is ed over the notables of Yat hr ib (Med in a)
and Ba†˙a (Mecca), the dove was warbl ing up on the tw i gs of the Sadrat al-Mun taha [p. 67] and the pea-
cock sin ging in the heave nly sanc t u ary, the idol ate rs sa id that Khu s raw  (C hro e s e s) the king of the
Pe rsi ans, who we re not people of the book, had defeated and was victor i ous over the Emp e ror of
By z an ti um, who was of the people of the book. Sim il arl y, they sa id, we will de s t roy the might (k al im a)
of Mu ˙ amm ad the Me s s e n ger of God on account of his being of the people of the book as is the emp e r-
or of By z an ti um and we are not people of the book as is the king of the Pe rsi an s. And so God cau s ed
these heave nly (láhútiyya) ve rses to de s ce nd and announced that By z an ti um would defeat its enemy the
Pe rsi ans within a few (bi∂’) years. And a few (bi∂’) means be tween three and nin e. And a fter seven of
those years, God cau s ed to app ear that which had been announced by His most mighty Compan i on
(Mu ˙ amm ad). The By z an tines we re victor i ous over the Pe rsi ans and their a s ce nd ancy was establ is h ed .
T hus was it con f ir m ed to the since re ones that the knowl ed ge of God precedes all thin gs and emb race s
all that is in exis te nce, whether of the seen or unseen.
T h is is that which the hear ts of those who write the comm e n taries hath sung in the gardens of the
mighty Qur’án. But other than this they have not penetrated to the sec re ts de p o si ted therein nor to the
s tored and hidden mys teries flow ing within the streams of the words of Thy Lord the All-K now in g, the
A ll-Wis e. And with this they cannot satisfy those who are sore at h irst for the liv ing wate rs (Kaw t h ar) of
the spirit from the hands of Grace and Be n ef i ce nce. And this is not h ing for those wh om God has
e ndowed with a penetrating visi on and has taught them the mean ing of His word [p. 68] and has
in for m ed them of the true in te r pre tati on of His ve rs e s. It is therefore nece s sary that I menti on some of
the thin gs that God has in te nded by these hidden ve rses, these heave nly son gs.
2] I say that Rome signifies that stati on which refe rs to and re l ates to the exis tent real i ties, to pure
being (ß arf an-án iyyah) and to the conceal ing veils and the woes which is sue forth from the speci f i ca-
ti ons of exis te nce. And these are ove rcome and van ish with the rise of the rays shin ing forth from the
Sun of Tr uth. And so when the cycle of the spirit has come to an end and the lamps of guid ance have
been extin g u is h ed, and the breezes of righteousness have been still ed, and the winds of fa i t h fulness have
d i ed dow n, and the voi ces of the nightin gales of Oneness in the gardens of fa i t h fulness have becom e
fati g ued, and the heaven of wealth and the garden of victories has been tran sfor m ed in to a bar ren wa s te-
l and and the owl hoots bal efully from the Tree of Za q qum (Qur’án 37:62, 44:43, 56 :52), then does the
b reeze of the spr in g-time of the All-Me rci ful wa ft from the Valley of Ay m an8 the bl e s s ed spot, and the
Sun of Div ine Oneness rise from the daw n in g-pl ace of the Will of Thy Lord the All-Me rci ful, the
C ompa s si on ate, and the clouds of Div ine Bounty ar ise and pour out up on the hear ts, souls and the inn e r
real i ties, cau sing the soils of capacity and rece p tivity to become ve rd ant and the earth of knowl ed ge to
s prout forth. Then does the bl e s s ed tree becomes ve rd ant from which can be heard the call: [p. 69]  “O
1 0 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Mo s e s! Thou art in the holy vale of Tu wa” (Qur’án 20:11–12) and the fire of reality app ears in that “ol ive
t ree which is neither of the east nor of the we s t. And its oil almost catches fire even though no fire has
touc h ed it. It is light up on light. God guides to His light wh om s o e ver He will s” (Qur’án 24:35). Then
doth the nightin gale of inner mean ing (m a’ání) sing up on the branches with the most lofty melo d i e s.
A nd it says “The Rom ans have been defeated in the nearest of land s.” What land is nearer than the
real i ties of thin gs and their speci f i cati on s? Then the ton g ue of the Ancient of Days announces, and it is
inde ed a mighty word, that the King of the Liv ing the Ete r n al has dec re ed that eve ry a ffa ir should have
a pre s c r ibed and fixed term. And so at the end of this cycle, there will come days when this shin ing sun
w ill set and be followed by billow ing clouds, and this spir i t u al spr in g-time will be ended by dark s om e
aut umn, and this lofty garden will be tran sfor m ed and its trees upro oted, and its leaves scat te red, and
i ts breezes will be still ed, and its rive rs in te r r up ted and their limpidity (c l ar i t y) de s t royed. “T h is is the
way of God and thou wilt not find any chan ge or alte rati on in His way” (c f. Qur’án 48:23 and 17:77)
A nd so O que s ti on e r! See thou with an in sight which God created a fter your outer visi on. Is any just
p e rs on able to say that all of the mean in gs of the words of God exist with those who cannot dis tin g u is h
t h eir left hands from their right? No! By the one wh om the dove doth menti on when it doth speak for t h
be tween [p. 70] heaven and earth. On the con t rary, it is ce r ta in that the mean in gs will in s pire those
h ear ts that are pure and tur n ed towards the Kin gdom. We re God to de sire it, He would cause one of His
love rs to ar ise and stand up on the ce n ter of guid ance am idst the concourse of creati on and to comm e n-
tate, with His a s sis tance and powe r, up on the real i ties within His ve rses, giv ing such mean in gs as are
known only to God and to those who are fir mly establ is h ed in His knowl ed ge (c f. Qur’án 3:7). Approac h
t h ou then Thy Lord with rad i ant face and seeing eye and say:
O Lord! Make firm my steps in Thy Cause and teach me Thy hidden knowl ed ge and Thy trea sured
s ec re ts and ra ise me up to Thy lofty Kin gdom and Thy most glor i ous Compan i on (ra fíqik a’ l- abhá). Cau s e
me to unde rs tand the mean in gs of Thy ve rses so that I may shine forth up on the hor iz on of Thy Will
with Thy knowl ed ge, like un to the mor n ing star, and may show un to the people Thine ete r n al path and
Thy straight way, which wh o s o e ver doth tread up on it will reach the Orient of Thy signs and the
Daw n in g-pl ace of Li g h ts. For this is that which will favour me as I con te mpl ate Thy most great ve rs e s
and gaze up on the signs of Thine exalted efful ge nce s. O Lord! Favour me with this most great gi ft and
t h is most mighty merc y. For this wh at I hope from Thee and it is my goal and my de sire. O my king and
my de sire at eve ry stage, and the joy of my heart and the sol ace of my soul in the day time and in the
night sea s on. Thou art the Give r, the Generous, the Compa s si on ate, the Me rci ful.
3] And in the stati on of [p. 71] Souls, thou seest that these Div ine ve rses have holy and heave nly mean-
in gs. Among these are that God has in te nded by the word “By z an ti um” the forces of self and pa s si on and
the peoples of ignorance and bl indness in that it (By z an ti um = forces of self, etc .) a s sis ted, at the app ear-
ance of His Fr i e nd (Mu ˙ amm ad), the forces of rea s on and in te ll i ge nce, with great power un til it saw the
signs of its Mighty Lord and heard the most sweet Call from the lofty hor iz on and drank the seal ed win e
from the hand of the fa i t h ful cup-beare r. The sweetness of the wine of the menti on of its Lord the All-
High cap tivated it to the extent that it became drow n ed in the oceans of the Love of God. At this tim e
the reality of self and pa s si on pa s s ed away with its cond i ti ons and powe rs at the app earance of the si g n s
of the Ab s olute Div ine Reality and it was defeated and van is h ed before the aut h ority of the ve rses of its
Creator. Howe ve r, its state of defeat was the ve ry source of its powe r, its abil i t y, its loftiness and its
m i g h t. For it grew and found rea s surance in the re m e mb rance of its Lord and through this it was enabl ed
to ove rcome eve ry t h ing and to encompass, through the power of its Creator and Origin, the real i ties of
the Kin gdom in accord ance with its capacity and to unde rs tand the sec re ts of its Creator and Fa s h i on e r.
A nd wh at con quest could be greater than this, we re people able to see with the eye of God? Inde ed we re
they able to able to soar with the win gs of the spirit in the heavens of knowl ed ge they would bear wit-
ness that this is the con que r ing power and the ove rwh e lm ing might and the triumph ant sove rei g n t y.
Howe ve r, [p. 72] when they are conceal ed be h ind the veils of neg l ec tfulness and have forgot ten wh at they
u s ed to bring to mind, God doth smite their eyes with a veil and their ears with heav in e s s.
Rise then with powe r, O re ve red que s ti on e r, and menti on Thy Lord among the concourse of the ear t h
and say: “How long will you be satisf i ed with a brac kish and malo dorous drop from the All-Mi g h t y, All-
1 0 6

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
G lor i ous Ocean which billows forth from His Essence to His Essence and from a spr ink l ing (ra s hh) of
which God hath created all exis te nce, liv ing and endur in g, just as He hath sa id, and His word is the
Tr uth: ‘A nd We made from water eve ry liv ing thin g’ (Qur’án 21:30)”?
4] And on one level, God in te nded by the word “R ú m” those souls who turn their faces seekin g
e nl i g h te nment when the Sun of the Ancient of Days doth shine forth from the Daw n in g-P l ace of the
Greatest Nam e. They purify the mir rors of their hear ts and draw near to the rays of that noble light. For
the noun “R ú m” accord ing to lin g u is tic usage is conn ec ted with fine wh i te (compl e xi on s) and people of
redd ish (hair) and pure souls who lo ok to their Lord with rad i ant snow-wh i te rej oi cing coun te n ance s. In
t h is is the compar is on and the re l e vance (of the metaph or).
A nd as for the mean ing of His Words, mag n i f i ed be He: “The By z an tines we re ove rcom e ,” that is to
say that those bl ameless souls who have effaced their de si g n ati ons and lim i tati ons at the app earance of
t h eir Re vealer so that they have become de si g n ated by the at t r ibutes of the All-Me rci ful and they have
app eared with heave nly si g n s—they are ove rcome in the ph ysi cal world. God has sent them the winds of
te s ts and diff i culties and has thrown them in to the clutches of those who have re pud i ated His Tr ut h, [p.
73], those who have not inh al ed the breezes of life, have re nounced their in te ll ect and clung to their pa s-
si on s. But when they [those bl ameless soul s] have ove rcome with re s p ect to the spirit, they will sim il ar-
ly ph ysi cally ove rcome their enemies through the power of their Creator. For God has a s si g n ed all go o d
for His loved ones in eve ry one of His worlds, even the world of body and memory. Thou dost witness
t h at menti on of them dost fill the hor iz ons and their name ra ises the stand ards of har mony and throu g h
them the world is set a fl ame and the pote n ti al i ties of all thin gs is illum in ated by the light of exis te nce
e m e rging from not h in g n e s s. Through them the stones have been shat te red, days have daw n ed and the
o ceans billowed; through them the holy laws have been establ is h ed, the wate rs have become clear, the out-
s pread tables have been sent down (c f. Qur’án 5:113), the dis eases re m ed i ed, the dead brought to life, the
earth has been made to shake, the heavens have been cleft a sunde r, the moun ta ins split in two, parad is e
has been brought close, the trees have given forth fruit, the sec ret thin gs have been made know n, the
veils rent a sunde r, the lights have shone for t h, and the signs (al-á t hár) have been made known.
T h e n, say: Pra ise be to God, the Creator of these bur n ing meteors, these brill i ant stars, these con-
summ ate words, these lofty souls, these sin g ul ar minds, and these spir i ts enrap t ured by God their Lord.
A nd say: O Lord! Cause me to enter under the shade of the Tree of Thy Me rc y. Imm e rse me in the de e p
o cean of the Might of Thy Oneness. Sanc tify me from all else save Thee. Deliver me from [p. 74] the
floods of self and pa s si on so that I may ar ise just as Thou hast cau s ed them to ar ise in serv i ce of Thee
and may stand ready to obey Thy comm and by Thy Might and Powe r. Ve r ily Thou art the Giver to wh om-
s o e ver Thou willest by Thy graci ous hand and Thou art powe r ful over all thin gs.
5] And in another sense, God has in te nded by this word of the Qur’án, the Div ine ord in ances (s h ar á'i’)
and pre s c r i p ti ons (sun an) and the laws (hudúd) of God and His dec rees (hukm). For the people, in the
d ays of the in te rval [be tween Me s s e n ge rs of God] have cast the laws of God be h ind their bac k s. They
h ave forgot ten the dec rees of God to such an extent that they re pl aced them and establ is h ed a rule of
i g norance (siyásatan jah al iyyatan) and made laws accord ing to cu s tom. They ra is ed the banner of arbi-
t rary and tyrann i cal dec rees to such an extent that they fors o ok all [s pir i t u al] knowl ed ge and guid ance
and clung in s tead to the basest of fancies and pa s si on s. They fe ll from the heaven of rea s on and [d iv in e]
proh ibi ti ons and to ok up their re side nce in the ab yss of error and bl indn e s s. They chose the highway of
the cor r upt and im agin ed it to be a straight path (sir á †un mu s ta q ímun). They appl i ed themselves to the
idols of luxur i ous liv ing and did not know the cor r upt from the wh ol e s om e. Thus we re the lamps of jus-
ti ce and fa irness extin g u is h ed and the storms of error in te n si f i ed. The sign of tyranny seiz ed power and
the traces of illum in ati on we re obl i te rated. The people we re a ffl i c ted by disa s te rs by night and by pred a-
tors dur ing the day to such an extent that they fors o ok the comm ands and pre s c r i p ti ons of God and
ab ro gated the Div ine dec rees and laws. Thus we re the holy and div ine laws ove r t hrown (g h al ab at) [p. 75]
among the peopl e.
T hrough the power and might of God, howe ve r, at the time of the daw n ing of the Morn of Gu id ance
from the hor iz on of ete r n i t y, the clouds of doubt and error we re dis p e rs ed and the heaven of knowl ed ge
1 0 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
and righteousness re s tored. The wondrous light shone forth and the glo omy darkness van is h ed. The
St raight Path was man i fe s ted and the Scales set. The Sure Handle, which cannot be rent, was exte nded
and the pollens of the spr ing of justi ce and wis dom wa fted from the direc ti on of the Bounty of the
Pre e xis tent Lord. The trees of the hum an form became clot h ed with the leaves of knowl ed ge and Div in e
w is dom and the Goodly Tree, the ro ots of which are fir mly in the earth and the branches of which are
in heave n, was pl an ted. Its fruit came in eve ry sea s on, its tw i gs and branches stre tc h ed forth as far a s
the hor iz on s. The birds of fa i t h fulness sought refu ge and bu ilt their nests within the tre e. The nightin-
gales of awareness sang up on it the son gs of the Fr i e nd and the doves of love cry out from its tw i gs with
the psalms of the House of Dav id to such an extent that spir i ts tre mbl ed, hear ts we re rent a sunde r, eye s
we re con s ol ed, souls we re rej oi ced and this exis te nce became the garden of parad is e.
Howe ve r, thou dost see that there app eared a wild and evil people and an ignorant and de te s tabl e
g roup among the people; their ignorance was so great that they we re un able to dis tin g u ish right from left
and they wrote up on sheets of wate r. They perfor m ed eve ry [p. 76] ab om in ati on and comm i t ted that
which even the an im als eschew, and so how can they be call ed hum an bein gs. But when there app eared
among them the Most Great Fr i e nd (Mu ˙ amm ad), the most mag n i f i cent Light, the sign of the Anci e n t
of Days, the most joy ful mor n, they to ok refu ge in the cave of His teac h ing for a ce r ta in number of days
and years un til this ignorant people a s ce nded from the de p t hs of ignorance to the summit of knowl ed ge
and wis dom and became prof i cient in the ar ts and sci e nces and outs t r i pp ed the most noted schol ars and
l ear n ed men. They became famous among God’s creat ures for the specific qu al i ties of hum anity and for
t h eir div ine at t r ibutes such that they became a mine of perfec ti ons and knowl ed ge and the pivot of the
circle of pra is e worthy de eds and be n ef i ce nce. Thus we re they victor i ous as far as the hor iz ons and ga in ed
s ove reignty over eve ry tribe and people in creati on. And so people began to come from eve ry direc ti on
to their lands in order to learn knowl ed ge and wis dom. They became ador n ed with the ve s t m e n ts of
e xce ll e nce and perfec ti on s. And all this was only out of the Grace and Me rcy of God who sent to be
among them the best of creat ures with a power which no creat ure possesses.
6] And in  another sense, God in te nded by the word “al-R ú m” the exis tent real i ties, which are re veal ed
by the Div ine Names and At t r ibutes, are war m ed by the fl ame of Oneness,  are kindl ed in the bl e s s ed
s p ot within the de l i g h ts of parad ise, app ear and are seen up on [p. 77] four ancient pill ars ,9 are estab-
l is h ed through the div ine and heave nly scriptures, and ar ise out of the essence of Sin g l e n e s s.
O would that the All-Me rci ful would break open from the mouth of this servant the seals of cauti on
and concealment so that I could expl a in to you, O fr i e nd, the stati ons of the Fire of Oneness and the
B l e s s ed Tree and its branches and leaves and the state of the pl ace of Parad ise which God has conceal ed
from the eyes of all save those who soar with the win gs of victory in the at mo s ph e re which brin gs joy
to the soul s. And so inh ale the frag rance of fa i t h fulness from the shirt of Bahá which hath been smat-
te red with bright-red blood on account of wh at the idol ate rs have done to His efful gent, illum in ed
Beaut y —and this a fter God hath hath establ is h ed a Cove n ant with them in eve ry holy book, scripture
and psalm that at the time of each efful ge nce of one of His Li g h ts and the Daw n ing of each Sun up on
H is hor iz ons, they would reco g n ize His Power and Sove reignty and pro s t rate themselves to Him on the
Day when He comes to them in shadow of His clouds and that they should sac r i f i ce themselves at the
time of His app earance in order to at ta in His Pre s e nce. What a pity and wh at a cause of reg ret for them
t h at they have neg l ec ted nearness to God. And so there will come to them an announcement of wh at they
h ave neg l ec ted. Then will their skins shive r, their live rs bl e ed, their hear ts melt, their souls mourn and
t h eir inn e r most selves lam e n t. And they will bi te their fin ge r-tips out of grief and re morse at wh at they
h ave done and that they have bar red themselves from the table [p. 78] of life sent down from the heave n
of the Me rcy of their Lord, the Mi g h t y, the Forgiv in g.
We will now re t urn to wh at we we re menti on ing  in expl an ati on of the word “R ú m .” We sa id that its
m ean ing was the real i ties of thin gs and their essences (m áh iyyá t) and the capacity of created thin gs and
t h eir pote n ti al i ti e s. And the mean ing of "we re ove rcom e" is that the out p our in gs of the All-Me rci ful and
the ete r n al efful ge nces pervaded the pote n ti al real i ties pour ing forth from the pre- e xis tent light, fill ed
t h e m, ove rcame (g h al ab at) them, and sur rounded them from all direc ti ons, both in wardly and outward-
l y, on the Day when the Sun of the Ancient of Days shone forth from the hor iz on. For on such a bl e s s ed
1 0 8

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
and prom is ed day, God does not lo ok at the capacity of exis tent real i ties and their pre paredn e s s. No, He
p ours forth up on them from the oceans of His Grace and Be n ef i ce nce even if they have not the capaci-
ty for a single drop of its rive rs such that you will see the poor man clot h ed in the robe of His wealt h
and the de s ti t ute beg gar wear ing the gar m e n ts of His Might and Loftin e s s. Just as He hath sa id, and His
word is the truth: “We de sire to show favour un to the weak up on the ear t h, and We make them leade rs
and inh e r i tors” (Qur’án 28:5).
O Thou who art soar ing in the at mo s ph e re of the love of God and trave ll ing up on the sea of Boun t y.
A r ise from the tor p or of idle fancies and open your eyes to witness how the Ancient Beauty doth shin e
forth up on you and up on the wh ole of creati on from the hor iz on of Boun t y. [p. 79] His Coun te n ance
doth shine forth be tween earth and heaven. You will ob s e rve the compre h e n siveness of the Bounty of
Your Lord and the ge n e rality of His Be n ef i ce nce towards those who draw nigh un to Him. You will see
h ow the ocean of His Most Great Me rcy billows forth out of the right hand of His Will and you will
e xp e r i e nce the frag rance of His Most Mighty Me rcy wa fting from the direc ti on of His Prov ide nce so that
you will know that, in this day, should a gnat de sire to become an eagle or a drop to become an ocean
in the shadow of this Beaut y, then it would be able to, with the a s sis tance of God and His Powe r. He
h ath sa id, and His word is the Tr uth: ‘We re an ant to de sire to have full maste ry over the Qur’án and its
inner mean ing and the inner mean ing of the inner mean ing (fí ˙ukmi sawád ‘ayni há), it will undoub t-
edly be able to do so for the sec re ts of eternity vib rate within the real i ties of all created thin gs.
T h e refore say: Blessed be He who causeth His Might, His Sove rei g n t y, His Me rcy and His Be n ef i ce nce
to app ear in these days within all created thin gs.
A nd as for His say in g, exalted be He: “A nd they will a fte rwards ove r t urn their defeat.”  That is to say
t h at there will come a day in which the Sun of Div ine Oneness will set in the Occident of Ete r n i t y, the
w inds of the spirit blow ing from the direc ti on of Fa i t h fulness will be still ed, the lamp of love in the
b rea s ts of those possessed of unde rs tand ing will be put out, the fires of lon ging in the hear ts of the wis e
w ill be extin g u is h ed, the table of Div ine Knowl ed ge that hath de s ce nded from heaven of ce r ti t ude will
be withdraw n, the clouds of hol iness will be pre ve n ted from yield ing ra ins and the seas of Div in e
Oneness from sur re nde r ing the pearls of mys te r i e s. Thus doth this most abund ant favour and most great
b ounty come to an end [p. 90] and this day of lights is tur n ed in to dark s ome night. And if you should
f ind the creati on in such a state, then be ce r ta in that the morn of ce r ti t ude is nigh and the day-b reak of
the All-Me rci ful from the Daw n in g-P l ace of Creati on and the com ing of Your Lord in the shadow of
c louds approac h e s. Then ra ise your hands towards your Lord and say:
U n to Thee be pra ise and grati t ude, O my most glor i ous Lord, in that Thou hast created me and sent
me forth in this day when Thy Coun te n ance doth shine for t h, Thy Beauty hath app eared, Thy Visage
s h ineth for t h, Thy Me rcy hath preceded all thin gs, Thy Bounty is abund ant, Thy Power doth encompa s s
all, Thy signs app ear (Thy ve rses are re veal ed), Thy Word is exalted and Thy pro of is establ is h ed. By Thy
Mi g h t! We re I to pra ise Thee for as long as Thy sove reignty endures, I would not be able to pro duce a
single word in pra ise of Thee. Howe ve r, on account of wh at I have seen of the un ive rsality of Thy Boun t y
and greatness of Thy Genero si t y, a drop from among Thy servan ts would be enabl ed to approach the sta-
ti on of oceans and an atom would be equ ivalent to the stati on of sun s. Therefore have I ste pp ed before
Thee offe r ing my thanks, which are as the buz zing of mo squ i toes in the valley or the crawl ing of an an t
along a chain. Ve r ily Thou art the Forgiv in g, the All-Me rci ful .
7] And among the mean in gs in te nded by God in this Qur’ánic word is the stati on of opin i on (s p ecu-
l ative thou g h t) and rea s on ing and the setting up of decisive evide nces and lo gi cal pro ofs of the Oneness,
the Singleness, the Might, the Power and the Sove reignty of God [p. 81] just as thou hast seen and
ob s e rved in the days pr i or to the app earance of the Most Mighty Light from the Daw n in g-P l ace of His
Name the Generous, to such an extent that no - one had any pat h way or any guide to Him except the
app earance of those signs and evide nces which the in te ll ect and opin i on (s p ecul ative thou g h t) ind i cated .
A nd the people in fe r red from these His exis te nce and ste e red clear of an y t h ing other than this. When,
h owe ve r, the sun of the hor iz ons daw n ed from the Daw n in g-P l ace of the Ancient of Days in the mo s t
noble of forms and all exis te nce was illum in ed by the rays rad i ating out over all creati on, the veils of
s p ecul ative thought and rea s on ing we re rent a sunder and the bann e rs of pro ofs and in tim ati ons we re
1 0 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
un furl ed and the stand ards of re ve l ati ons (muk ás h a f át) and te s timonies we re ra is ed over the signs of
h ear ts and perce p ti on s. Then we re the pure souls (a˙r ár) able to enter in to the pre s e nce of their Lord on
the day when the earth shook and moun ta ins we re cleaved.
Then say: Blessed be God, the Kin g, the Mi g h t y, the Omn i p otent who hath ann ih il ated the darkn e s s
with light with a Mighty Sove rei g n t y.
“A l-Rúm was defeated”: that is to say the drops of the wate rs of specul ative opin i on and rea s on ing van-
is h ed in the face of the billow ing oceans of the re ve l ati ons (muk ás h a f á t) and te s timonies of He who is
a co olness on the brow of those who seek Him with ardor and is sweet water for their thirst and heal-
ing for their ill. He de s t royed and brought to naught that which is not h ing but idle fancies, va in
t h ou g h ts, false in fe re nces and empty specul ati on s— for the likeness of these pro ofs before the face of Thy
L ord is as the likeness of shadow before the daw n ing of the sun. For even we re there to be lo gi cal pro ofs
for It (the sun) [p. 82], they cannot be held to exist in the face of Its efful ge nces, nor can they be sa id
to endure before Its rad i ating rays. Inde ed, they are veil ed from It even we re they to be given pro of of
It. In the opin i on of them who have dr unk a draught of seal ed wine from the hands of the Bounty of
H is Name the Ete r n al, the most mighty of the veils of His servan ts is that they rely on the eph e m e ral
s h adow for knowl ed ge of the Sun of the Ancient of Days and de p e nd up on mere traces and seek to give
pro ofs in this way for that which is the or i gin of all lights. And de s pi te this, they con sider that they have
reac h ed the ce n ter of guid ance and are pro ce ed ing up on the ce l e s ti al sph e res of the mind. On the con-
t rary, they are plun ged in the de p t hs of idle fancies and are wande r ing lost in the wildernesses of va in
im agin in gs.
A r ise then with power from God and strength from His Sove reignty call out to the neg l i ge n t: How
long will you gallop in the de s e r ts of ignorance? The flashes of inner mean in gs lighten the heaven of the
s pirit and ignite the hor iz ons with the fire of God which hath app eared from the Sin a i tic Tree up on the
Mount of Ete r n i t y. Ve r il y, O Concourse of Love rs, draw near to it so that you may be war m ed by it, be
g u ided by it, be ignited by a glow ing brand from it and may hear its si g h in g.
Say: The eyes of all thin gs have been con s ol ed by ente r ing in to the Pre s e nce of their Lord wh ile you
do not perceive. All created thin gs have been arou s ed wh ile you re m a in neg l i ge n t. All exis te nce has ar is e n
wh ile you slumber up on the cu s h i ons of neg l i ge nce. The ton g ues of all thin gs are speaking forth in men-
ti on of the King of Heaven [p. 83] wh ile you are sil e n t.
If you do not turn towards this Beaut y, then to which beauty will you lo ok? If you are not arou s ed by
t h is call, then by wh at call will you be arou s ed? If you are not stir red by this Spirit, by wh at spirit will
you be stir red? Do you count yours e l ves as being al ive? Nay, ye are among the compan i ons of the grave s.
Do you main ta in that you are among those that perceive and hear? Deaf are ye and bl ind, neither do ye
unde rs tand. Has the Me rcy [of God] not an ti ci pated [all], the Bounty not ab ounded, the pro of not be e n
s p oke n, the evide nces not made clear, the ve rses not de s ce nded or the word not been compl e ted? Have
the doves of parad ise not sung and has heaven not been brought near? Has the bl e s s ed Tree not give n
fruit and the oceans of mys te ry billowed forth? Nay, the most mighty battle (wá qi’ah) has occur red and
the most great cal amity († ám ah) has app eared and all thin gs have been gat h e red (re sur rec ted, ˙ a s h ara) in
the pre s e nce of God, the Protec tor, the Eve rl a s tin g, even as the unbe l i e ve rs are wande r ing a s t ray in their
dr unke nn e s s.
8] And among the thin gs that God has in te nded by these con summ ate words are the bodily stages and
ph ysi cal (n ás útiyyah) real i ties, to gether with their accide n ts and speci f i cati ons in their realm and
dom a in. And the mean ing of His words, may His stati on be exalted: “A l-Rúm was ove rcom e” is that the
b o d ily stages pass away with the man i fe s tati on of the spir i t u al ve rses and the rive rs of reality inund ate
the ear t hs of the pure hear ts when the All-Me rci ful is moun ted up on His Most Mighty Throne in the
m idst of all bein gs. For [p. 84] the armies of the spirit fall up on and at tack the tro ops up on the Day of
the Re t urn with the power of the Lord of Lord s. Thus are the bodily thin gs ove r t hrown and dom in i on
be lon gs to the thin gs of the spir i t. And in this are signs for those who dis ce r n .
9] And among wh at God has in te nded by these firm and endur ing words is conce r n ing the idle fanci e s
and va in im agin in gs in the hear ts of ord in ary peopl e. For dur ing the days when the Sun of Knowl ed ge
1 1 0

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
and Wis dom has set, thou dost witness that idle fancies and va in im agin in gs have supreme sove rei g n t y
among the concourse of created thin gs. Thou dost ob s e rve that all are de p e nd ing up on idle fancies for
knowl ed ge and to sol ve problems, even for mat te rs of the holy law and ord in ance s. They have no capac-
ity to swim in the oceans of knowl ed ge nor to plun ge the de p t hs of wis dom. When the Sun of Certi t ude
doth shine forth from the clear hor iz on, howe ve r, the rays of the Div ine Beauty doth cause the darkn e s s
of idle fancies and va in im agin in gs to disapp ear. Then doth the ton g ue of creati on speak forth say in g:
the Tr uth hath come and Error hath disapp eared. Ve r ily Error was bound to van ish.
O Fr i e nd! speak forth with a wondrous ton g ue: Thine is the boun t y, the grace, the merc y, and the
be n ef i ce nce up on this servant who is not worthy of an y t h ing in Thy Kin gdom in that Thou hast saved
me from the wilderness of idle fancies and hast cau s ed me to seek shelter am idst the tw i gs of the tree of
knowl ed ge. O Lord! Cause me to be firm in Thy Love and to ar ise to a s sist Thy Cause and to establ is h
Thy Rul e. Make me [p. 85] one of Thy bann e rs among Thy servan ts that I may be a fo cal point for Thin e
in s pirati on and may be a s sis ted by Thy si g n s. Ve r il y, Thou art powe r ful over all thin gs by Thy Might and
s ove rei g n t y, O Thou Be loved of the world s.
9] And among wh at God has in te nded by these compre h e n sive words are the stages of the soul and the
s tates thereof, its deg rees, its elevati on and dim inuti on, its a s cent and its fall, out of the bounty of its
Creator, the ge n e ro sity of its Origin ator and the power of its Source. Know thou that the soul has var i-
ous stages and innum e rable deg re e s. But its totality in the stages of exis te nce is con f in ed and lim i ted to:
the static (non- de ve lopin g) min e ral soul, the grow ing vege tative soul, the sensing an im al soul, the ear t h-
ly (n ás útiyyah) hum an soul, the comm and ing soul, the bl am ing soul, the in s pired soul, the con te n ted
s oul, the acce p ting soul, the acce p ted soul ,11 the perfect soul, the an gelic (m al ak útiyyah) soul [of the
Kin gdom of God], the soul of the realm of Comm and (jab arútiyyah) and the soul of the sanc ti f i ed realm
of the Pr im al Man i fe s tati on (láhútiyyah).
As for “the min e ral soul” (an-n a fs al-m a’d an iyyah), it con sis ts of in t r in sic mat ter in the form of min-
e rals and this is its perfec ti on, its purity and the effec ts that app ear from it. And so ob s e rve the pre-
ci ous stones that are min ed; how they are heated within the bowels of the earth un til they reach their
p e r fec ti on and beauty through the app earance of this soul within them and the emerge nce of their essen-
ti al qu al i ties through this pro ce s s.
A nd as for “the grow ing vege table soul” (an-n a fs an-n ám iyyah an-n abá tiyyah) [p. 86], it con sis ts of an
e s s e nce within which ar ises the vege tative power through which seeds, leaves, branches and trees grow
and de ve lop in that it takes mat ter and elements and gives these to the trees and pl an ts so that they grow
and mat ure. They grow and exte nd their branches and give forth their fr u i ts, their flowe rs and their
l eave s.
A nd as for “the an im al soul” (an-n a fs al- ˙ aywán iyyah), it con sis ts of an essence within which ar is e s
the powe rs of sensing those ph ysi cal thin gs that can be sensed.
A nd as for “the hum an soul” (an-n a fs al-in s án iyyah), it con sis ts of the rati on al soul that is to say an
e s s e nce within which ar ises the powe rs of the hum an bein g, the outer and inner senses, the div ine per-
fec ti ons and knowl ed ge, the heave nly sci e nces, the ete r n al ar ts, and the hidden wis dom. Like w ise, it is
the pl ace wh e re dark pa s si ons and ear t hly (n ás útiyyah) fa il in gs app ear.
Pra ise be to God for this a s ton is h ing si g n, this mighty mat te r, this compre h e n sive word on the scroll
of exis te nce. For thou dost ob s e rve that it has var i ous stati ons, dive rse stages of a s cent and man i fold
deg rees to which there is no end. It has the capacity to be the mir ror for the man i fe s tati on of the real i-
ties of the realm of the Pr im al Will (láhútiyyah) and the pl ace wh e rein the div ine and perfect at t r ibute s
are re veal ed and app ear. It also capable of de s ce nd ing in to exis te n ti al darkness, wh e re it is veil ed with
thick veils ar ising from [p. 87] its lim i tati ons and its specific qu al i ties which pre vent it from at ta in in g
to its or i gin and point of re t urn and hide from it the signs of its Creator which have been de p o si ted with
in it through the grace of its Make r.
On account of its pro g re s si on to the stages of nearness and reun i on and its de s cent in to the regi on s
of perd i ti on and error, it is clot h ed in each stage and stati on in clothes that are diffe rent from the pre-
1 1 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
v i ou s. Therefore it is known in each stage by a par ti cul ar term. For example, in its de s cent in to the low-
est stati ons of an im al pa s si ons, its preo ccupati on with the triv i al i ties of this vile world, its in fat u ati on
with evil and eph e m e ral de sires, its con gealment from the coldness of the con tin gent world, its extin-
g u is h ing of the heat of the love of its Lord, the Mi g h t y, the Generous, its fall and its de s cent in to the
t ur moil of error and its exce s sive preo ccupati on with re pre h e n sible and brutish ac ti ons, it is known a s
“the comm and ing soul” (n a fsin am áratin, the soul that comm ands to evil) as He hath sa id, and His word
is the truth: “Ve r il y, the soul comm ands to evil unless My Lord hath mercy up on I” (Qur’án 12:53).
Then it pro g resses from this dire state and this base level to a stati on wh e rein there comes to it from
time to time an awareness of the de p t hs of its emb roilment in dan ge r, of its de s cent in to the ab yss of
h e edlessness, its tread ing such pat h ways, its self- concealment from its Lord God, its neg l ect of its
Creator, its be w ilderment in the wilderness of error and pa s si on, and its forge tfulness of the menti on of
God the Kin g, the Mi g h t y, the All-High. On occa si ons, there passes over it the breeze of the perce p ti on
of its state [p. 88] and it is awoken to a slight exte n t. It then bl ames itself for the de p t hs that it per-
ceives of its imm e rsi on in the tribul ati ons of heedlessness and tran sg re s si on and re proaches itself wh e n
it sees itself be w ilde red in the de s e r ts of perve rsity and error. It reg re ts its baseness and its vile state in
the lowest deg rees of error and ruinous pa s si ons and its concealment be h ind the accumul ated veils wh i c h
pre vent it from a s ce nd ing to lofty spir i t u al stati ons and dis t ract it from the re m e mb rance of God
t hrough the evil wh is p e r in gs of Satan. And so on account of its reg ret and re morse conce r n ing its sta-
ti on and its bl am ing itself it is call ed “the bl am ing soul” (an-n a fs al-lám i’ah)—as He hath sa id, may His
n ame be mag n i f i ed: “No, I will swear by the bl am ing soul” (Qur’án 75 :2).
A nd when the soul pro g re s s ed from this lowl y, brutish and ab a s ed state and a s ce nded to a more nobl e ,
more for t un ate, neare r, conceal ed lo cati on, it was a s sis ted by the con f ir m ati ons of God and in s pired by
the con te n ts of its own book—as it is sa id: “Read thou thy book, su ff i cient is it for thy soul as an
account aga inst thee on this day” (Qur’án 17:14). Then there came to it the signs of in s pirati on and the
reality of day became apparent to it from that of night and it was summon ed to the shore of the ocean
of knowl ed ge (‘ir f án), was su s ta in ed by holy foods from the gardens of parad ise, harve s ted the fr u i ts of
the tree of be n ef i ce nce, drank from the streams of bounty and grace, be n ef i ted from the ete r n al boun-
t y, [p. 89] and ta s ted the sweetness of bl e s sin gs. It came to unde rs tand the cause of its elevati on and
deg rad ati on, its a s cent and de s cent, and its rising and setting as it ought to be. It refl ec ted up on its
s tate, its plight became clear to it, and this led it to become ave rse to those thin gs that perish (f án iyyá t)
and to inc l ine towards those thin gs that endure (al-bá qiyyá t). It closes its eyes to those thin gs that exis t
and turns in s tead to the court of the Alm i g h t y, the All- C omp e ll in g. It an ti ci pates the call of the
C oncourse on High and turns its at te n ti on to those thin gs that will cause it to a s ce nd un til it reac h e s
the throne of a s surance and the seat of grati t ude. It becomes the fo cal point of in s pirati on amon g
hum an i t y. It dis cove rs as a re sult of its effor ts and striv in gs those be n ef i ci al thin gs which will lead it to
i ts purpose and goal. Then it is te r m ed the “the in s pired soul” (an-n a fs al-mulh am ah) for it is in s pired
as to that which leads it to de pravati on or to righteou s n e s s—as He hath sa id, bl e s s ed and glor i f i ed be He:
“By the soul and wh at is like un to it, He in s pired it as to that which leads it to de pravati on or to right-
eou s n e s s” (Qur’án 91:7-8).
A nd in a stati on which awakens it to the menti on of its Lord and arouses it to the call of its Creator
from the slumber of va in im agin in gs and brin gs its at te n ti on to the re m e mb rance of God, the Alm i g h t y
the All-K now in g, to its ar ising and a s cent to the stati ons of love and a s surance, its imm e rsi on in the
o cean of ce r ti t ude, its reco g n i ti on of the signs of God in the daw n in g-pl aces of con tin gent bein g, the
h or iz ons of exis te nce and the breat hs of the All-Me rci ful, the app earance of the evide nce of Div in e
Oneness from the days pr ing of heave n, its entrance in to and re m a in ing in the heart of parad ise, its sim-
m e r ing in [p. 90] the heat of the love of its Lord, the Alm i g h t y, the Be n ef i cent, its pat h way and pa s sage
to God the All-Powe r ful, the Ruler of Parad ise, its setting on the throne of calmness and repose, and its
dr inking from the chal i ce of fir mness and con s tancy at all tim e s. Then it is te r m ed “the a s sured soul”
(an-n a fs al-mu†m a'inn ah) because it is a s sured in its fa i t h, its tur moil and unrest is calm ed, it has
que nc h ed its thirst, soot h ed its torment, it has thinn ed and re moved its veils, it has chan ged its darkn e s s
to light, it has ended its futil i t y, its shor tcom in gs have tur n ed to perfec ti on, it has pi e rced its veils, tor n
1 1 2

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
i ts cove r in gs, re veal ed its sec re ts, shaken its found ati ons and unloaded its burde n s. It has re p or ted the
tid in gs that your Lord has re veal ed to it. Exalted is God, its guide and its sav i our, the One Who illu-
m ines it and forms it, ab ove all that the ignorant have sa id .
A nd when it has reac h ed this most mighty and perfect stati on, this most pl ea sant, most pure, mo s t
s weet de s tin ati on, and has dr unk from these clear spr ing wate rs of Sabá,
15 it will at ta in to the stati on of
sub m is si on and con tentment, it will leave be h ind its searc h ing and need iness and will entrust its a ffa irs
to God, the Mighty and Ete r n al Kin g. It will rely up on Him and rec l ine aga inst the cu s h i on of His boun-
ty and be n ef i ce nce. It will not see in this stati on an y t h ing that is incon sis tent with its con te n t m e n t
(r i∂ á) and it does not prefer the greatest ease to the most mighty cal am i t y. Inde ed it is con tent with
(acce p ts, r á∂ iyah) wh ate ver God may dec ree for it [p. 91] and thou wilt ob s e rve it joy ful and happy wh e n
t roubles de s ce nd and grateful and thank ful when the oceans of misfor t unes and disa s ter billow for t h .
Even we re the ar rows of misfor t une and grief to is sue forth from the clouds of de s tiny and the ra ins of
s or row and ad ve rsity to de s ce nd up on it, thou wouldst ob s e rve it we t ting its ton g ue with pra ise of its
L ord, the He lp-in-Pe r il, and eloquently exp ound ing in menti on of the Generous Kin g.
T h is is a stati on wh i c h, wert thou to at ta in un to it, thou wouldst ar r ive at a happiness which would
not be followed by sadness, a joy which is not succe eded by grief, an ease and com fort that does not end
in dis t ress and hard s h i p, a prosperity that does not turn to de s ti t uti on and misfor t une, for the might of
thy Lord has gra s p ed fir mly the reins of a ffa irs. “The earth is His hand ful on the Day of Re sur rec ti on,
wh ile the heavens will be roll ed up in His right hand. Pra is ed be to Him and Exalted is He ab ove eve ry-
t h ing that they a s c r ibe as partner un to Him” (Qur’án 39:67). Thus is it that not a leaf stirs up on a tre e
nor does a fruit fall except by the will of Thy Lord, the Me rci ful, the Compa s si on ate.
For the seeker in this exalted stati on there re m a ins no will, no rest, no moti on, no de s tiny nor an y
fate except in God. Inde ed, his essence, his at t r ibutes, his bein g, his ve ry sense of self all fade away ove r-
wh e lm ed by the signs of Div ine Oneness, just as the shadows disapp ear when the pre- e xis tent sun shin e s
forth.
A nd when his will has faded away and van is h ed in the Will of the Tr ue God, and his will has becom e
ide n ti cal to His Will, and his pl ea sure is the same as His pl ea sure, and the veils have been lifted, the
cove r in gs have disapp eared, and idol at ry (s h irk) has van is h ed from the reality of his heart [p. 92], then
does there app ear in the soul the sign of acce p tance. Then on account of its acce p tance of the dec ree of
i ts Creator and its sub m is si on to the comm and of its Make r, it is known as “an acce p ting soul” (n a fsin
r á∂ iyyatin).
I n s ofar as all- e ncompa s sing bl e s sin gs and mercy reach it [the soul], boun ties and favours encompa s s
it, a cove r ing of grace and be n ef i ce nce enc lose it, and God clothes it in the robe of obed i e nce and His
favour, the Supreme Concourse addresses it, say in g: “We ll is it with thee in that thou hast trave rs ed the
path and cove red the way un til thou didst enter in to the spr ing of fa i t h fulness and didst ob ta in the clear
wate rs of sub m is si on and con tentment (r i∂ á). Thou hast left be h ind thy pa s si ons and acce p ted the dec re e
of Thy Lord. Thou hast exp e nded wh at is thine and sac r i f i ced thy spirit, thy heart and thine inner self
up on the path to thy Lord. This then is thy con s ol ati on — t hus hast thou at ta in ed un to this most exalted
s tati on and this most glor i ous compan y. Thus hast thou become acce p ted (m ar ∂ iyyah) and approved in
the sight of God, thy Lord, and hast sought the shelter of the bounty of thy Lord, tre mbl ing with joy
and happiness at His Bounty and Be n ef i ce nce. Ve r il y, His Grace towards His since re servan ts is mighty!”
A nd on account of its [the soul’s] rising by means of its acce p tance (r i∂ á) in to the hei g h ts of bein g
acce p ted by God (al-m ir’áj al-m ar ∂ iyyah ‘ind alláh), its Lord, and its being approved in its state of not h-
ingness (fan á’) by its Creator, it is known as “the acce p ted soul” (an-n a fs al-m ar ∂ iyyah).
A nd when it (the soul) soared on the win gs of hol iness in to the at mo s ph e re of this parad ise and ta s t-
ed of the sweetness of the stati ons of reun i on in the gardens of heave n, these illum in ed and lofty sta-
ti ons we re coll ec ted within it (the soul) [p. 93] and it arose to this elevated and spir i t u al deg ree and there
g u s h ed forth from the lofty hei g h ts of its reality the spr in gs of the wis dom of eternity (sam ad án iyyah).
It became the fo cal point of in s pirati on and the daw n in g-pl ace for the rad i ance of the lights of this efful-
ge nce and became con tent with the re m e mb rance of God the Graci ous Sove reign. It has become acce p t-
1 1 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
ing (r á∂ iyyatan) of His dec ree and acce p ted (m ar ∂ iyyatan) in not h ingness (fan á’) at His gate, therefore i t
is known as “the perfect soul” (an-n a fs al-k ám il ah) on account of its being charac te r iz ed by these spir-
i t u al and div ine perfec ti ons and being compr is ed of these essenti al (al-jawh ar iyyah) and go dl y at t r ib-
ute s.
Then is it (the soul) worthy and pre pared for entry in to the heaven of the Kin gdom of God (m al ak út),
which is the parad ise of the righteous and the refu ge of the free whose faces have been illum in ed by the
g l ad-tid in gs of God. In it app ears the beauty of the All-Me rci ful and the sign of the Be n ef i cent One. To
these stati ons do His words, may his Grandeur be mag n i f i ed, refe r: “O thou a s sured (mu†m a'inn ah) soul ,
re t urn to thy Lord, acce p ting (r á∂ iyyatan) and acce p ted (m ar ∂ iyyatan). Enter among my servan ts! Ente r
my parad is e!” (Qur’án 89:27-30). For the garden of refu ge, the meads of spl e ndour, the exalted heaven and
the all-high parad ise are the pa s t ures of the Kin gdom of God. In this Day, the do ors [of this Kin gdom]
are op e n, its land stre tches out, its lights shine for t h, its fr u i ts ripen, its blo s s oms open out, its stream s
flow, its oceans billow, its spr in gs gush for t h, its breezes are gentle, its sur face is de l i cate, its doves sin g
out [p. 94], its mout hs smile, its sor rows are made joyous, its lightnin gs fl a s h, its daw n in gs are fill ed
with light, its birds warble, its pal aces are ador n ed and its joys draw near. Therefore, rise and with the
loudest voi ce pro c l a im: “Ha s te n, O ye love rs, to the daw n in g-pl ace of this most ancient light that shin e s
forth and glis tens and head towards this lofty and subl ime refu ge.”
The soul, when it has ente red this exalted heave n, this ete r n al parad ise, has sought the dawn of this
most lum inous day, has ente red this most pl ea sant, most pure pl ace, has taken on perfec ti ons, ac qu ired
the illum in ati on of the essence (jawah ir) of names and at t r ibutes, has dr unk from this “cup te mp e red at
the camph or foun ta in (Qur’án 76 :5),” has roam ed throu g h out these lands, plun ged the de p t hs of these
s eas, and has been guided to this fire kindl ed and a fl ame on the Paran of love, con f irms in its real i t y
the profe s si on of Div ine Unity (k al im at at-taw ˙ íd)  and establ ishes in its essence the sign of de tac hm e n t
(ayat at-taj ríd). It at ta ins to eve rl a s ting life and ete r n al liv in g. It takes pl ea sure from de l i g h ts the like of
which no eye has seen nor any ear heard. It dr inks from the clear spr in gs which flow from the right hand
of the Throne of Reality and ta s tes of the fruit of the tree grow ing in the midst of Parad ise, stir red by
the breezes com ing from the direc ti on of the Beauteous One [p. 95], through which the hear ts of those
who be l i e ve in the Div ine Unity have been re v ived and the leaves on the branches of the hear ts of the
since re ones have been set in moti on. It at ta ins un to the seat (m ark az) of ete r n al life (b a qá’) in the shad-
ow of the coun te n ance of its Most Exalted Lord, such that not the slightest trace of the eph e m e ral (fan á’)
s h ould be hidden within it nor the misfor t une of evan e s ce nce or ann ih il ati on befall it—just as He hat h
sa id, and His word is the truth: “A ll that are thereon (up on the ear t h) shall perish (f án a) and there
re m a ineth but the coun te n ance of thy Lord, full of Glory and Honour” (Qur’án 55 :27-8).
A nd when the soul hath un folded the win gs of the spirit, been at t rac ted by the Joy of God, hath soared
to the most exalted hor iz on, hath sought the most glor i ous Compan i on (ra fíq al- abh a), it doth a s ce nd to
the div ine stati on of Jab arút (the realm of Comm and) and is a s sis ted by an ove rwh e lm ing and all- con-
que r ing power and by the in t r i cate and ancient sec ret and by the noble and mighty mys te ry. It becom e s
aware of the sec re ts of hidden and in v isible real i ties which con sumes in envy the hear ts of the mys ti c
knowe rs. It is impr in ted by the rays shin ing forth from the Sun of Tr uth and by its effec ts and comes to
re s e mble its app earance and its light in eve ry state and cond i ti on. It a s ce nds to a stati on that God hat h
m ade to be far ab ove the unde rs tand ing of the minds of men, for this stati on is created out of the ele-
m e n ts of powe r, stre n g t h, might, aut h or i t y, sove rei g n t y, omn i p ote nce, protec ti on, and fre edom and
not h ing that has lim i tati ons or plural i ties has any re s e mbl ance to it. On the con t rary it is the ve ry
e s s e nce (jawh ar) of un i t y, the sub s tance of singleness and ab s t rac ti on, the light [p. 96] of lights, the mys-
te ry of mys teries, the fur t h e r most tree (Sidrat al-Mun tahá), the exalted rank, the all-highest stati on, the
Ma s jid al-A qsá (the re motest mo sque), and the ultim ate goal in the world of creati on even though per-
fec ti ons have no beginn ing nor end to them and are be yond all lim i tati on s. We ll is it with the one wh o
has ente red this hol y, noble and mighty stati on .
A nd as for “the Div ine Soul” (an-n a fs al-iláh iyyah), it con sis ts of the Unive rsal Reality which brin gs
to gether all of the Div ine real i ties of the realm of Pr im al Man i fe s tati on (láhútiyyah) and the ete r n al
s ec re ts, the outer a s p ect of which is the ancient light and the inner a s p ect is the most mighty and sub-
1 1 4

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
l ime mys te ry, the Pr im al Point from which app ear all thin gs and to which they re vert, from which they
or i gin ate and to which they re t urn. Thus is it the Pr im al Oneness (al- a˙ ad iyyah) in its essence and the
de r ived Oneness (al-wá˙id iyyah) in its at t r ibute s. And from it there app ears plurality through man i fe s-
tati on [is man i fe s ted plural i t y, Ω uhú r] and illum in ati on, and it becomes div ided, dis p e rs ed and man i fold ,
and rad i ates . And so the hor iz ons and souls become fill ed and illum in ed by it on the Day of the
C ove n ant, and on account of it the tabe r n acles of unity tre mble and are set in moti on. From it there
g row the branches of the tree of oneness and by it they are clot h ed in the pr im al garment and the mo s t
p e r fect light. And from a single sign (ayah) from it there app ear all of the (Div in e) names to which hum an
real i ties can at ta in and from a mark (sim ah) from it there grow forth all of the true hidden (Div in e)
at t r ibute s. And so it is the ce n ter of the circle of exis te nce through the man i fe s tati on (z uhú r) of “T h e re
is no god but God” and the axis of the sph e re of ete r n i t y, around which circles [p. 97] the star of on e-
ness and un i t y, such that all of the hidden real i ties circle around this point of oneness in the realm of
Pr im al Man i fe s tati on (an-nu q tah al- a˙ ad iyyah al-láhútiyyah) and all of the subtle lum inous essence s
(k ay nú n á t) de r ive from this fl ame which is kindl ed, abl aze and speaking forth in the tree of hum an i t y
say in g: “T h e re is no god but He, the Mi g h t y, the Powe r ful, the Ete r n al .”
T h is Soul con sis ts of the reality of the sanc ti f i ed pers ons and true thron e s—the horsemen of hum an
in te ll i ge nce can never gallop in this pa s t ure nor can the birds of the minds of creat ures  travel in this
l and. Only the since re ones among them receive the great bounty of the rays of this most lum inous light
in their haste and pro g ress towards the state of not h ingness (fan á’) at the gate of the Mighty Kin g.
Wre tc h ed and conde mn ed are the people who im agine that they have at ta in ed un to their highest stati on
when they have not even circ l ed around their inner sanc t u ary. How can the gnats of eph e m e ral bein g
(fan á’) vie with the ph o e n ix of the daw n in g-pl ace of eternity (b a qá’). Why is it that for a put r id, salt y,
bi t ter drop, they rej ect the sweet, clear and billow ing sea.
To wh ate ver extent they who seek to rise to the highest stati ons of mys tic knowl ed ge may a s ce nd or
to wh ate ver high stati on in the deg rees of ce r ti t ude they that hold fast to the Div ine unity may climb,
they are only read ing the lette rs of the book of their souls (c f. Qur’án 17:14), only at ta in ing the sign that
is reful gent, de p o si ted, incor p orated, and conceal ed within the real i ties of their own inner bein g
(k ay nú n á tih im) and only re vol v ing around the ce n t res of the circles of their own essenti al nat ure s
(dhá tiyyá tih im) [p. 98]. And as for the stages that are ab ove their worlds and be yond their at ta inm e n t ,
they are not able to seek in for m ati on ab out them nor to unde rs tand them.
Ob s e rve with the eye of reality ph ysi cal (khár ijiyyah), created thin gs. You will see that eve ry t h ing else
is not able to unde rs tand wh at is ab ove it even we re it to pro g ress in its stati on to the highest deg ree of
[i ts] exis te nce, even as thou dost witness that the min e ral howe ver much it may pro g ress and a s ce nd to
the summit of perfec ti on is un able to know or to unde rs tand the stati on of the vege tabl e. And sim il ar-
l y, howe ver much the pl ant may inc rease in spl e ndour and grow t h, it can never become aware of the real-
ity of the an im al. And in the same way, the an im al howe ver much it may improve its go o dness, spl e n-
dour and prop or ti ons, it will never possess knowl ed ge of the essence (hu w iyyat) of hum anity nor of its
real i ties, states and at t r ibute s.
K now thou therefore that, in the variety of their stages, deg rees and stati ons, souls are bound by this
cond i ti on — t h at none of them are able to tran sg ress their lim i ts or stati on. No bird is able to fly ab ove
the upper limit of its fl i g h t. And if mat te rs are thus among these created, con tin gent, ph ysi cal (khár i-
jiyyah) bein gs which share pertinent and sim il ar a s p ec ts, then how much more so be tween the stati on s
of con tin gent reality and those of the real i ties of Pr im al Man i fe s tati on, which the hum an in te ll ect fa il s
to unde rs tand, souls become con fu s ed in try ing to know [p. 99], ton g ues are powe rless to expl a in and
the win gs of the birds of hear ts and minds are too fe eble to fly to the hei g h ts of elucid ating it.
Let us now re t urn to our theme of the stati ons of the soul and its deg ree and cond i ti ons, its elevati on
and dec l ine and its exaltati on. We have stated that this most great sign in one stati on con f irms the soul
and its deg rees and is tran sfor m ed from stage to stage and from stati on to stati on. For in each deg ree it
l eaves be h ind its lim i tati ons and its cond i ti on. It seizes possessi on through its effor ts of the signs of the
deg ree that is ab ove it and it leaves be h ind [i ts for m e r] cond i ti on through te s ts which purify it, ref in e
it, cleanse it and make it de tac h ed from wh ats o e ver it not worthy in it in the path of its Creator. And
1 1 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
when it is re l ea s ed and saved from all of the lower deg rees and a s ce nds with the help of its Origin ator
and Fa s h i oner to a high deg ree, it ga ins a victory over the power of the lower deg rees and van qu ishes the
h o s ts of the real i ties of the base state s.
Then unde rs tand wh at He, glor i f i ed be He, hath sa id: “The By z an tines we re ove r t hrow n”— t h at is to say
it [the soul] has ove r t hrown and cau s ed to dim in ish and fade away “the comm and ing soul” through the
m isfor t une of the thunde rb olts that fe ll up on it from the realms of the Kin gdom and the fl am ing fire
t h at ente red up on it from the re p o si tories of Might and Comm and (Jab arút). Then was it a ided by the
h o s ts of guid ance and victory and a s sis ted by the an gels of spirit and righteou s n e s s. It was awake n ed
from its slumber and its neg l i ge nce and it ended [p. 100] its imm e rsi on, its dec l ine and abasement and
b ore witness to its fall and its lowly cond i ti on. Then it call ed to mind its cond i ti on, ref in ed its visi on,
pur i f i ed its sight un til it came to know its state and wh at it was that veil ed it and hinde red it and becam e
a cause for its re moteness, de n i al, neg l i ge nce and in eb r i ati on. Then it gra s p ed hold of the hem of Grace
and Me rcy and suppl i cated God and to ok refu ge in His Pre s e nce, un til it a s ce nded and was saved from
t h at stati on and stage and ente red the loftiest stati on. Thus was it tran sfor m ed in its stati ons and deg re e s
and was victor i ous over and over aga in un til it went back to its or i gin and re t ur n ed to its ce n ter and
was clot h ed in the robe of its perfec ti on and ente red the shadow of its Lord, the Seat of Tr uth in the
pre s e nce of the Mighty Kin g.
O thou who art kindl ed and ag low with the fire of the love of God! Know thou that we re this servan t
to wish to in te r pret this Div ine (láhútiyyah) ve rse in all of the hidden stati ons and Div ine real i ties and
in the stati ons of Jab arút and Mal ak út, the exis tent real i ties, the seen and unseen worlds, the man i fe s-
tati ons of Pr im al Oneness and the states of cond i ti on ed Oneness, the spir i t u al essences (k ay nú n á t), the
found ati ons of the heart, the stati ons (m a s há’ir) of reality and of the soul and that which perta ins and
is suppl e m e n tary to this with the most compl e te exp o si ti on and the most perfect expl an ati on, he would
be able with the help of God, and His Power and Grace and con f ir m ati on. But souls are not able nor do
they have the capacity [p. 101] to hear it and unde rs tand it. Therefore do we hold the pen back from exp o-
si ti on and movement and give to you these ke ys of elucid ati on. Therefore open by the power of your Lord
all of the do ors that have been shut in your face so that you may be aware of the hidden and conceal ed
m ys teries of God, may witness and re veal the pre s e rved and guarded sec ret, may travel in that spaci ou s
and mighty Kin gdom, plun ge in to that swe ll ing and billow ing sea and that mighty and roll ing ocean,
g l ean from the bright stars of light by the Grace of the King of Man i fe s tati on.
By the Lord of forgiveness and the we ll-known beauty of grati t ude! We re one of the since re ones to
t urn to God in this most great Day and see with the purest visi on, he would unde rs tand all of the real-
i ties and mean in gs of eve ry word of the ve rses of God, the Ete r n al Protec tor— n ay inde ed, eve ry lette r
and eve ry dot. For real i ties and mean in gs in their entirety flow forth within their inner a s p ec ts and
s t reams burst forth from them and oceans billow within them. We ll is it with those who at ta in there-
un to!
These mean in gs which we have set forth app ear and are made man i fest from this bl e s s ed ve rse wh e n
we read “the By z an tines are ove r t hrow n”— t h at is to say in the pa s sive form but if we read it in the ac tive
for m, there app ear from it other mean in gs which there is no opp or t unity to d ay to expl a in and make
c l ear and to uncover its mys teries and sec re ts. We leave that for another tim e.
We trust in God [p. 102] in all mat te rs and we seek help from the cord of His Me rcy and Grace. Ve r il y
He gives an s we rs to the que s ti oner and wealth to the need y.
Note s
1) A†-ˇab arí, Abu Ja‘far Mu ˙ amm ad, Jám i‘ al-B ayán fi Ta fs ír al-Qur’án, 30 vol s., Matb a‘ah al-May m an iyyah, Ca iro,
1321/1903, vol. 21, p. 11. Cf. sim il ar accoun ts in ibid., pp. 10–14 and in Ibn Kat h ír, Ta fs ír al-Qur’án al-‘AΩ ím, 4 vol s.
Dár at-Turáth al-‘A rabí, Ca iro, 1385/1965, vol. 3, p. 422–7.
2) Fa ∂l ibn Óasan a †-ˇab ars í, Maj m a’ al-B ayán (Qumm: Man s húrát Mak tab ah Ayat All ah al-UΩmá al-Mar‘ashí al-Naja fí, 1403 ,
5 vol s.), vol. 4, p. 295.
3) At hár Qal am A‘lá, vol. 5, p. 47. I am grateful to Dr. Khazeh Fan an apazir for this refe re nce.
4) Ta fs ír of al-Qummí quoted in Maj l is í, Bihár al-A n wár 23 :191, No. 12, see Mom e n, I n t ro duc ti on to Shi‘i Islam, p. 151–2.
1 1 6

‘Ab d u’l - Ba h á ’s Commentary
5) Ta fs ír al-Qur’án, Dár al-Ya qaz a, Beir ut, 1387/1968, vol. 2, p. 255 – 6.
6) See for example the def in i ti ons of three of these from ‘Abd ar-Razzáq al-Qás hání given in fo ot notes 12–14 be low.
7) Ma s si g non, for example, gives a sim il ar list of seven stages, which he states is to be found in the Ta fs ír of al-Qás hání
( pre sum ably the Ta‘wílát al-Qur’án). This list is the same except that it ends a fter an-n a fs al-m ar ∂ iyya with an-n a fs aß-
ß áf iyyah (the pure soul). See Lou is Ma s si g non, The Pa s si on of al-Halláj, (t ran s. He rbert Ma s on), vol. 2 (B oll in gen series
98, Pr ince ton: Pr ince ton Unive rsity Press, 1982), p. 277 and n.
8) The valley of the right-h and side, the pl ace from which the Bur n ing Bush call ed out to Moses, Qur’án 28:30
9) This may be a refe re nce to the four pill ars or supp or ts up on which re l i gi on is based. The Shi‘is be l i e ved in five pill ars
(see Mom e n, I n t ro duc ti on to Shi‘i Islam, pp. 176– 8) but the Shaykh is reduced this to four (ibid, p. 226). The Báb al s o
refe rs to four pill ars: Taw ˙ íd (Div ine Unity), Nubu wwa (Proph e t h o o d), Wal aya (Gu ard i an s h i p), and the S h i‘a (see the Bá b’s
Ris ála a s-Sulú k— prov isi on al tran s l ati on by To dd Laws on).
10) Statement made by the Báb is quoted by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in seve ral pl ace s. See quotati on in Shoghi Effe nd i, The Ad vent of
Div ine Ju s ti ce, p. 46 and The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 126–7.
11) Shoghi Effe ndi tran s l ates these last six terms in a pa s sage from the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh thu s: “Much hath been writ-
ten in the books of old conce r n ing the var i ous stages in the de ve lopment of the soul, such as concupis ce nce, ira s cibil i t y,
in s pirati on, be n e vol e nce, con tentment, Div ine go o d-pl ea sure, and the like; the Pen of the Most High, howe ve r, is disin-
c l in ed to dwe ll up on them.” (G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ láh, no. 82, p. 159).
12) An example of the stand ard Sufi de s c r i p ti on of the comm and ing soul can be found in ‘Abd ar-Razzáq al-Qás hání,
I s til ah at a s-Su f iyyah (t ran s. Nabil Sa f wat, London: Octagon Pre s s), no. 245, p. 56: “The Self which inc l ines towards bod-
ily nat ure, and comm ands one to sensu al de l i g h ts and lu s ts, pull ing the Heart dow n ward s. Thus it is the ab o de of evil ,
the foun ta inh ead of re pre h e n sible morals and wicked de ed s.”
13) al-Qás hání ’s de s c r i p ti on of this state of soul is (no. 246, p. 56): “The Self which has been illum in ated by the light of
the Heart, to the extent that it becomes aware of its habi t u al heedl e s s n e s s. Thus it awakens and begins to improve its
cond i ti on, vacill ating be tween Godl iness and its nat ural state; so that wh e n e ver a mis de ed occurs through its nat ural
prop e n sity towards evil, it is cor rec ted by the div ine admon i tory light, and it star ts to bl ame itself and turn in re p e n-
tance to the do or of the Forgiv in g, the Me rci ful .”
14) Al-Qás hání de s c r ibes this state of the self thus (no. 247, p. 56): “The Self whose enl i g h te nment has been compl e ted by
the light of the Heart, so that it has dive s ted itself of base qu al i ties and has been moulded by laud able moral conduct and
or i e n tated toward the way of the Heart, ge n e rally follow ing it closely and pro g re s sively rising to the sac red world- fre e
from sin, a s siduous in its de voti ons, rising step by ste p....”
15) Aß- Í abá, the East Wind. Accord ing to al-Qás hání (IΩ † il a˙át aß- Íú f iyyah no. 242): “It is the breezes of the All-Me rci ful
com ing from the direc ti on of the East of Spir i t u ality and summon ing and rou sing one to the go o d .”
1 1 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 1 8

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”:
Mystical Language, Revelation and Scholarship
by Ismael Velasco
I
t is cu s tom ary for ge n e ral works on mys ti cism to begin by a def in i ti on of the term “m ys ti cis m .”1 I n
all of these dis cu s si ons mys ti cism emerges, ab ove all, as a form of pers on al exp e r i e nce, more pre-
cis e l y, as a form of re l i gi ous exp e r i e nce of ext raord in ary in te n si t y, culm in ating in a profound sense
of un i on and ide n tity with the tran s ce ndent or imm anent Ab s olute. The exp e r i e nce of mys ti cal un i on is
t hus the card in al pole of mys ti cal exp e r i e nce, giv ing to the mys ti c’s quest its mean in g, purpose and ful-
f ilm e n t.
In Chr is ti an mys ti cal writin gs the concept of mys ti cal un i on app ears to exte nd to two kinds of exp e-
r i e nce: first, the mom e n tary rap t ure in which all sense of self is lost in God and all the powe rs of the
s oul are te mp orar ily still ed in wordless ec s ta s y —an exp e r i e nce wh i c h, accord ing to Will i am James in his
now classic and still in flue n ti al Gi fford Lec t ures, cannot last much more than half an hour, and at mo s t
an hour or two.2 S econdl y, the concept of mys ti cal un i on is also appl i ed to a less tran sient and not at all
d isabl ing sense of deep un i on with God which usu ally follows, or is punc t u ated by, such rap t ures, in
which the hum an will is sa id to become one with the div ine Will, and all ac ti ons, thou g h ts, a ffec ti on s ,
are de s c r ibed as flow ing from and te nd ing towards God, re sulting in a sa intly life charac te r iz ed by go o d-
ly de eds and an abid ing sense of God’s pre s e nce in oneself and in all else. The tec hn i cal term som e tim e s
u s ed for the second of these two states of mys ti cal un i on is “the un i tive life.”3
It should be sa id that alt h ough Chr is ti an mys tics often make clear the dis tinc ti on, equ ally often this
d is tinc ti on is blur red in the sim il ar i ties of lan g u age used to refer to both kinds of exp e r i e nce. What is
c l ear, howe ve r, is that both states are in tim ately linked, and, ph e nom e nolo gi cally at least, are often con-
side red as diffe rent a s p ec ts or phases of an ultim ately un ique exp e r i e nce of un i on with God.
Bear ing in mind the in te r re l atedness of these two states, we will fo cus in this essay on the second kind
of un i tive exp e r i e nce, an exp e r i e nce which we may de s c r ibe as “abid in g” un i on with God—the quotid i an
e xp e r i e nce of un i on with God to put it another way —as opp o s ed to the ec s tatic flight of un i on ofte n
l inked with stir r ing visi ons, which is sa id to herald, usher in, or recur in the course of, the un i tive life.
More precis e l y, we will fo cus on how this exp e r i e nce of abid ing un i on is ar ti cul ated by a number of
imp or tant Chr is ti an mys tics a ff il i ated to the Francis can and Dom in i can mend i cant orde rs.
4 In explor in g
t h is theme we will pay at te n ti on to the manner in which their for mul ati on of an in e s capably pers on al
e xp e r i e nce sought to brid ge the gap of in effability to reach an aud i e nce ph ysi cally close, yet to all app ear-
ances still too far from their state to share or even conceive the preci ousness of their sense of real iz a-
ti on .
5 We will frame this dis cu s si on in an explorati on of Bahá’u’ lláh’s mys ti cal teac h in g.
W h ile mys ti cism has often been seen as on the margins of “off i ci al” re l i gi on, in the Bahá’í Faith mys-
ti cal exp e r i e nce is seen as fund am e n tal not only to the Bahá’í re l i gi on, but to re l i gi on its e l f, un ive r-
sal is ed and al i g n ed with re l i gi ous faith. In a we ll-known pa s sage, Shoghi Effe ndi writes that “the core of
re l i gi ous faith is that mys tic fe e l ing which un i tes Man with God.... The Bahá’í Fa i t h, like all other Div in e
Re l i gi ons, is thus fund am e n tally mys tic in charac te r.”
6 T h at mys tic fe e l ing has given rise in the great
world re l i gi ons to mys ti cal trad i ti ons wh i c h, in tur n, have enge nde red a rich vein of mys ti cal writing and
inde ed mys ti cal lite rat ure. The Bahá’í Fa i t h, alt h ough by far the youn gest world re l i gi on, has already made
si g n i f i cant con t r ibuti ons to the lite rary cor pus of world mys ti cis m, beginn ing by the great mys ti cal trea-
tises and visi on ary poems of the Fa i t h’s Founde r, Bahá’u’ lláh. These works, regarded by Bahá’ís as div in e
Re ve l ati on, have already had a profound impact on the out lo ok and pers p ec tive of the Bahá’í commun i-
t y.
1 1 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
B ahá’u’ lláh’s maj or mys ti cal works we re re veal ed in the earliest period of His min is t ry, shaping in a
fund am e n tal way the at ti t udes and a s pirati ons of the first be l i e ve rs, and through them succe s sive ge n-
e rati ons of Bahá’ís. Bahá’u’ lláh’s mys ti cal maste r pi ece, The Seven Vall e ys, as we ll as the mys ti cal aph o-
r isms that crown his ethical teac h in g, The Hidden Word s, we re among the earliest works to be tran s l at-
ed in to We s tern lan g u ages, both by ind iv idu al be l i e ve rs and by the Gu ard i an of the Cause him s e l f. It is
no accident that from the time of Bahá’u’ lláh the ge nre of mys ti cal lite rat ure had already ge r m in ated
w i t h in the nascent Bahá’í commun i t y, in the shape of beauti ful and in tense poetry and prose from Bahá’í
s such as Nabíl, Na’im, Var qa, and other early be l i e ve rs. The ro ots of this poetry, be side Bahá’u’ lláh’s
in s pirati on and example, lay in large mea sure in the Pe rsi an Sufi trad i ti on and ab ove all in the scripture
and poetry of the Bábí re l i gi on. Like w ise the earliest years of the Cause in the West saw examples of
B ahá’í in s pired mys ti cal lite rat ure among a number of Bahá’ís, most notably in the writin gs and poetry
of the Hand of the Cause of God and former ecc l e si a s tic of Ire l and, George Tow n s h e nd .
At the heart of mys ti cal lite rat ure lies an in e rad i cable paradox: the a s s e r ti on of in effabil i t y, of the
imp o s sibility of de s c r i p ti on in re l ati on to mys ti cal exp e r i e nce side by side with pages up on pages of pre-
cisely such de s c r i p ti on. Why, if lan g u age is ut te rly in ade qu ate, write treatises of mys ti cal guid ance? Why,
if the de s c r i p ti ons of mys tics fa il, do mys tics ci te each other for val id ati on and illu s t rati on ?
T h is paradox, perva sive in mys ti cal lite rat ure East and West, is closely re l ated to a sim il ar paradox
unde r pinn ing the Bahá’í concept of Re ve l ati on: the ab s olute tran s ce nde nce, the categor i cal unknowabil-
ity and inde s c r ib ability of God-given expre s si on in volume up on volume of re veal ed words ab out His
e xalted real i t y, will and pur p o s e. Lan g u age is simultan eously held to be incapable of hin ting at the real-
ity of God, the Most Hidden of the hidde n, wh ile being con sis tently offe red, in the words of the
Proph e ts, as a ladder of a s cent un to His Real i t y, the Most Man i fest of the man i fe s t.
T h is paradox, in both mys ti cism and re ve l ati on, finds subl ime expre s si on in a tablet re veal ed by
B ahá’u’ lláh to Áqá Mu ˙ amm ad Óasan, and chosen by Shoghi Effe ndi to be the op e n ing pa s sage of
G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, the volume of his chosen tran s l ati ons of Bahá’u’ lláh’s word s:
L auded and glor i f i ed art Thou, O Lord, my God! How can I make menti on of Thee, a s sured a s
I am that no ton g ue, howe ver deep its wis dom, can bef i t tingly magnify Thy name, nor can the
bird of the hum an heart, howe ver great its lon gin g, ever hope to a s ce nd in to the heaven of Thy
m ajesty and knowl ed ge.
...The loftiest sentim e n ts which the holiest of sa in ts can express in pra ise of Thee, and the de e p-
est wis dom which the most lear n ed of men can ut ter in their at te mp ts to compre h e nd Thy
n at ure, all re vol ve around that Center Which is wh olly subj ec ted to Thy sove rei g n t y, Which
adoreth Thy Beaut y, and is prop e ll ed through the movement of Thy Pen.
Nay, forbid it, O my God, that I should have ut te red such words as must of nece s sity imply the
e xis te nce of any direct re l ati onship be tween the Pen of Thy Re ve l ati on and the essence of all
c reated thin gs... All compar is ons and likenesses fa il to do justi ce to the Tree of Thy Re ve l ati on,
and eve ry way is bar red to the compre h e n si on of the Man i fe s tati on of Thy Self and the Day
Spr ing of Thy Beaut y.
...W h ate ver duty Thou hast pre s c r ibed un to Thy servan ts of extoll ing to the ut most Thy maj e s t y
and glory is but a token of Thy grace un to them, that they may be enabl ed to a s ce nd un to the
s tati on con fe r red up on their own inmost bein g, the stati on of the knowl ed ge of their own selve s.
...U n s earc h able and high ab ove the pra ise of men wilt Thou re m a in for eve r. There is none ot h e r
God but Thee, the Inacce s sible, the Omn i p otent, the Omn is cient, the Holy of Hol i e s.
T hus not even the words of the Proph e ts or, in Bahá’í te r m inolo gy, the Man i fe s tati ons of God, can
h int at God’s reality or that of His Me s s e n ge rs. At the most, they can lead to at ta inment to the true
knowl ed ge of on e’s inn e r most self. In this con te xt Bahá’u’ lláh dec l ares in the Hidden Word s: “Turn thy
sight un to thys e l f, that thou mayest find Me within thee, Mi g h t y, Powe r ful and Self-Sub sis te n t.”
8 The cir-
1 2 0

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
cul arity of the pro cess becomes appare n t. Our pra ise of and con te mpl ati on on God leads to a reco g n i-
ti on of the poverty of our ve ry words and in si g h ts in re l ati on to His exalted Real i t y, lead ing in the
pro cess to a clearer in sight in to our own soul s— wh e rein God is man i fe s t. It seems then that the pur p o s e
of our in ade qu ate pra ise of God is, as ec h o ed by the Gu ard i an in the ci tati on ab ove, to at ta in the mys-
ti cal exp e r i e nce of un i on with God within our soul s. Lan g u age, howe ve r, as is made clear earlier in this
quote, even from sa in ts, re m a ins a broken yet seemingly ind is p e n sable vessel to car ry the mys tic wate rs.
The tablet to Áqá Mu ˙ amm ad Óasan makes clear that the paradoxi cal nat ure of lan g u age as both lad-
der to and veil from God applies not only to sac red scripture but to mys ti cal lite rat ure al s o— in re l ati on
to the “s e n tim e n ts of the holiest of sa in ts” and the “deepest wis dom” of “the most lear n ed of men.”
T h is paper will explore in more de ta il the nat ure of this paradox by explor ing in de ta il the way in
which mys tics within one re l i gi ous trad i ti on use lan g u age to de s c r ibe mys ti cal exp e r i e nce, how that
e ndeavour is shap ed by the mys ti c s’ environment and bac k g round, and how that pro cess illum in ates our
unde rs tand ing of Bahá’í mys ti cism and of Bahá’í scripture. We conc lude with refl ec ti ons on impl i cati on s
of this lin g u is tic paradox to the conduct and direc ti on of Bahá’í schol ars h i p.
We have chosen to take a ve ry nar row fo cus on med i e val mend i cant Chr is ti an mys ti c s. The in te n ti on
is that, by ro oting our dis cu s si on in a re l atively homo ge nous con te xt, the dynamics giv ing rise to dif-
fe re nces in mys ti cal de s c r i p ti on may be more read ily perceived, and the re l ati onship be tween mys ti cal
e xpre s si on and soci al con te xt may be more clearly lo cated. As we explore the exp e r i e nce of these mys-
tics, we shall draw links and compar is ons to Bahá’u’ lláh’s mys ti cal work s.
We begin with ge n e ral re m arks regard ing the nat ure of the exp e r i e nce of abid ing un i on as in tim ated
by the writin gs of the mys tics under re v i e w, noting a s p ec ts common to all of them before pro ce ed ing to
d is cuss some a s p ec ts up on which they diffe r, in order to at te mpt some conc lu si ons regard ing the con-
cept of mys ti cal un i on and its for mul ati on and dis cu s si on by our mys ti c s. As a point of de par t ure, a
b r i ef de s c r i p ti on of the sensati ons at te nd ing the exp e r i e nce in the mys ti c s’ own words seems in orde r.
Suso writes of in toxi cati on, quiet and fre edom: “when the good and fa i t h ful servant ente rs the joy of
h is Lord, he becomes in toxi cated with the imm ea surable abund ance of the Div ine Hou s e. For in an in ef-
fable manner it happens to him as to a dr unk man, who forge ts him s e l f, is no lon ger him s e l f. He is qu i te
dead to Him s e l f, and is entirely lost in God, has pa s s ed in to Him, and has become one spirit with Him
in all re s p ec ts, just as a little drop of water that is poured in to a large qu an tity of win e.” “A man’s will
fades away as regards vol i ti on, in the sense of wan ting to do this or that from self-w ill. He has no ac tiv-
ity of such a will in this sin ful sense...h is life and will and ac tivity are a quiet, un touc h ed fre edom,
which is ce r ta inl y, be yond all doubt, his supp or t.”9
Jacop one da Todi write s: “In God the spir i t u al faculties come to their de sired end, lose all sense of
self and self- con s ci ousness, and are swept away. The soul, made new aga in, marve ll ing to find itself in
t h at imm e n si t y, drow n s. How this comes ab out it does not know.... The soul that possesses You re m a in s
fore ver pure, does not wound or sully itself with sin. On a height and in peace it lo oks down on the world
be low ste e p ed in sin. The sense of self disapp ears, for it can never rise to this level, wh e re the in f in i te
c h arity of God engul fs all .... So it is with the soul: Love dr inks it in, it is un i ted with Tr ut h, its old
n at ure fades away, it is no lon ger master of its e l f. The soul wills and yet does not will: its will be lon gs
to Anot h e r. It has eyes only for this Beaut y.”10
Angela di Foligno describes the experience thus: “He is presented intimately to my soul, and when I
understand Him to be present, I then understand how He is present in all nature, how in all things He has
being.... And God presents Himself with great illumination and truth and divine grace. So that the soul,
seeing Him thus, can in no wise offend.... And although I can experience sadness and joy exteriorly, I can-
not interiorly; for in my soul is a room into which no joy or sadness, nor pleasure of any kind, neither
virtue nor anything else, can enter. But into that room enters the All-Good…there remains continually with
me a Divine unction, which is a supreme unction, and which I may have at all times of the day.”
We could add quotes from our re m a in ing aut h ors, but it is hop ed that these exce r p ts, charac te r is tic of
the ge nre as a wh ole, will su ff i ce to ind i cate the te nor of their de s c r i p ti on s.
1 2 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
B ahá’u’ lláh’s The Seven Vall e ys echo these de s c r i p ti ons of the un i tive life:
W h e n s o e ver the light of Man i fe s tati on of the King of Oneness settleth up on the throne of the
h eart and soul, His shin ing becometh visible in eve ry limb and membe r. At that time the mys-
te ry of the fam ed trad i ti on gleameth out of the darkn e s s: “A servant is drawn un to Me in praye r
un til I an s wer him; and when I have an s we red him, I become the ear wh e rewith he heare t h ...” "
For thus the Ma s ter of the house hath app eared within His home, and all the pill ars of the
d we ll ing are a s h ine with His light. And the ac ti on and effect of the light are from the Li g h t-
Give r; so it is that all move through Him and ar ise by His will. And this is that spr ing wh e re-
of the near ones dr ink, as it is sa id: “A fount wh e reof the near un to God shall dr ink”.... For wh e n
the true lover and de voted fr i e nd reacheth to the pre s e nce of the Be loved, the spark l ing beaut y
of the Loved One and the fire of the love r’s heart will kindle a bl aze and burn away all veils and
w rappin gs. Yea, all he hat h, from heart to skin, will be set a fl ame, so that not h ing will re m a in
save the Fr i e nd .
As a star ting point for a more de ta il ed exam in ati on, it may be useful to turn to Will i am Jam e s’ sim-
ple yet useful mo del of the mys ti cal exp e r i e nce. For Will i am James four charac te r is tics may be sa id to
m ark an exp e r i e nce as mys ti cal: in effabil i t y; no e tic qu al i t y; tran si e nc y; and pa s siv i t y.14 Of these four
m arks of mys ti cal states noted by James, the only one that does not apply to the kind of exp e r i e nce we
are exam in ing is, evide n t l y, tran si e nc y. Inde ed, Will i am James is fo cu sing on the visi on ary and rap t ur-
ous exp e r i e nces we menti on ed earl i e r, rather than on the sense of abid ing un i on or un i tive life we are
d is cu s sing here. The other three charac te r is tics, on the other hand, ce r ta inly app ear to be present in our
m ys ti c s’ dis cu s si on s.
Let us begin with pa s siv i t y, a word which may at first mis l ead, since, as it re l ates to our subj ect, it
does not refer to the ab andonment of hum an effort but rather to the incapacity of hum an effort, of
i ts e l f, to bring ab out the lon ged for un i on, and the con s e quent a s c r i p ti on of this un i on and of the effec ts
of this un i on to the ac tivity of God rather than to the striv in gs of man. To this in su ff i ci e ncy of hum an
effort all of our mys tics te s ti f y, a s s e r ting the nece s sity of grace, def in ed as a “sup e r n at ural” be s towal
or i gin ating in God Himself through Chr ist Jesu s. Hum an effort then, accord ing to each and all the mys-
tics under re v i e w, is second ary — n ece s sary but not su ff i cient to at ta in reun i on. Bon ave n t ura summ ar is-
es this posi ti on as follows:
But we cannot rise ab ove ours e l ves unless a higher power lift us up. No mat ter how much our
in te r i or pro g ress is orde red, not h ing will come of it unless accompan i ed by div ine a id. Div in e
a id is ava il able to those who seek it from their hear ts, humbly and de vout l y; and this means to
sigh for it in this valley of tears, through fe rvent praye r. Praye r, then, is the mother and source
of the a s ce n t... First, therefore, I in v i te the reader to the groans of prayer through Chr ist cruci-
f i ed ...so that he not be l i e ve that read ing is su ff i cient without unc ti on, specul ati on without
de voti on, in ve s ti gati on without wonde r, ob s e rvati on without joy, work without pi e t y, knowl ed ge
w i t h out love, unde rs tand ing without hum il i t y, endeavour without grace, refl ec ti on ...w i t h out
d iv inely in s pired wis dom .15
B ahá’u’ lláh echoes this in many pa s sages of which we will ci te but one from the Book of Certi t ude:
T hus will these mys teries be unrave ll ed, not by the a id of ac qu ired lear n in g, but solely throu g h
the a s sis tance of God and the out p our in gs of His grace.... Only when the lamp of searc h, of
earnest striv in g, of lon ging de sire, of pa s si on ate de voti on, of fe rv id love, of rap t ure, and ec s ta-
s y, is kindl ed within the seeke r’s heart, and the breeze of His lov in g-kindness is wa fted up on his
s oul, will the darkness of error be dis p e ll ed, the mis ts of doub ts and misgiv in gs be dis si pated ,
and the lights of knowl ed ge and ce r ti t ude enve lop his bein g. At that hour will the mys tic He rald ,
bear ing the joy ful tid in gs of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God re s pl e ndent as the
mor n, and, through the trump e t-blast of knowl ed ge, will awaken the heart, the soul, and the
s pirit from the slumber of neg l i ge nce.16
1 2 2

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
He re the bal ance is struck be tween spir i t u al pre parati on on the part of the seeker and ultim ate de p e n-
de nce up on div ine a s sis tance, in the form of “the breeze of His lov ing kindn e s s,” and “the mys ti c
He rald, bear ing the joy ful tid in gs of the Spir i t.” The link be tween mys ti cal fe e l ing and mys ti cal knowl-
ed ge is like w ise clearly drawn in the pa s sage. Of the no e tic qu ality of mys ti cal exp e r i e nce, James write s:
“A lt h ough so sim il ar to states of fe e l in g, mys ti cal states seem to those who exp e r i e nce them to be al s o
s tates of knowl ed ge. They are states of in sight in to de p t hs unplumbed by the dis cursive in te ll ec t.”
17 T h is ,
aga in, is clearly refl ec ted in eve ry one of our mys ti c s. Aga in, we will turn to one of them, Cat h e r ine of
Siena, to speak for the re s t:
O Ab ys s! O ete r n al Godh ead! O deep sea! What more could you have given me than the gi ft of
your ve ry self? You are a fire al ways bur n ing but never con sum ing; you are a fire con sum ing in
your heat all the soul’s selfish love; you are a fire lifting all chill and giv ing light. In your light
you have made me know your truth: You are that light be yond all light who gives the mind’s eye
sup e r n at ural light in such fullness and perfec ti on that you bring clarity even to the light of
faith. In that faith I see that my soul has life, and in that light receives you who are Li g h t.
We now ar r ive at the in effability of un i on, the unut te rable nat ure of wh at is fe lt and appre h e nded in
the pr ivacy of the mys ti c’s commun i on. In The Seven Vall e ys, hav ing de s c r ibed the exp e r i e nce in word s
such as those ci ted ab ove, Bahá’u’ lláh adds the paradoxi cal dis c l a im e r:
The pen ste ppeth not in to this regi on, the ink leaveth only a blot. In these pl anes, the nightin-
gale of the heart hath other son gs and sec re ts, which make the heart to stir and the soul to clam-
or, but this mys te ry of inner mean ing may be wh is p e red only from heart to heart, con f ided onl y
from breast to brea s t.19
“No one grasps this ,” expl a ins Bon ave n t ura, “e xcept him who receives, since it is more a mat ter of
a ffec tive exp e r i e nce than rati on al con side rati on .”20 A nd Tauler a s s e r ts, “But this reaches far ab ove all
knowl ed ge and unde rs tand ing; far be yond all powe rs, even un to a fat h omless ab ys s. As weak eyes can-
not bear the brightness of the sun, so a thou sand times less can nat ure endure this cond i ti on in her
weakn e s s. All that we can say of this is that howe ver we ll we may be able to compre h e nd it with our
m inds, express it in words, or grasp it with the unde rs tand in g, still it is all as ut te rly unl ike the real i t y
as it would be we re I to say of a pi ece of bl ack coal: ‘L o ok, here is the bright sun which lightens all the
world .’”21 A nd in Di on ysi an fa s h i on Suso refe rs to God as the Not h in g, and says, “in point of fact, it is
as far and farther from the Not h ing as it would be to say ‘c h opping blo c k’ in s tead of ‘f ine pearl .’”22
A n gela di Fol i g no finds lan g u age so in ade qu ate as to feel that her de s c r i p ti ons approach bl a s ph e m y23
(alt h ough do c t r in ally they could not be more or t h o dox) and a s s e r ts, “Of these div ine op e rati ons of the
m an i fe s tati on of God in the soul not one word can be spoke n, and of them no man can babbl e.”24
Cat h e r ine of Siena, as if it we re God Himself speakin g, writes, “Your ton g ue could never te ll, nor your
ears hear, nor your eyes see the joy they have who travel on this road”;25 and Jacop one da Todi exc l a im s
de s pa ir in g l y, “Oh, the futility of seeking to con vey with im ages and fe e l in gs that which sur passes all
m ea sure!”26
Notw i t hs tand ing the sense of futility at te nd ing their at te mp ts howe ve r, “s e e king to con vey with
im ages and fe e l in gs that which sur passes all mea sure” is precisely wh at we find these mys tics doin g. It
is this paradox which al e r ts us to the pecul i arity of the mys ti c’s use of lan g u age, which at te mp ts, by
m eans of “im ages and fe e l in gs” to brin g, Prom e t h eus like, the hidden fire of mys ti cal exp e r i e nce from
un appre h e nded hei g h ts to the lowly ground of hum an ut te rance, not for the sake of those wh o, like them-
s e l ves, have exp e r i e nced the summ i ts of reun i on first hand — wh at need have they of words to do inj u s-
ti ce to their rav is h in gs?— but rather for the sake of those who have not yet at ta in ed the peak of mys ti cal
e xp e r i e nce but who are rece p tive enough to be brought closer to their goal by the mys ti c s’ melo d i e s.
T hus we find Cat h e r ine of Siena thanking God for her re ve l ati ons not only on her own be h al f, but on
be h alf also “of ot h e rs who might see themselves mir rored here.”27 C l early the mys ti c’s pat h, alt h ough an
in tensely pers on al one, is not a lonely one, but one unde rs tood as shared by a multi t ude of soul s.
B on ave n t ura is still more expl i cit and precis e. He writes his book for “those, therefore, pred is p o s ed by
1 2 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
g race, the humble and the pi ous, the con t r i te and the de vout, those anoin ted with the oil of gladn e s s ,
the love rs of div ine wis dom, and those in fl am ed with a de sire for it...those wis h ing to give themselve s
to glor i f y in g, wonde r ing at and even savour ing God.”
28 Those “w is h ing to,” “love rs of,” “in fl am ed with
de sire for”: those, in other words, who want to ar r ive at the prom is ed goal and are ac tively endeavour-
ing to reach it, but who are not yet there. This target aud i e nce for mys ti cal te xts re s on ates with the tar-
get aud i e nce de si g n ated by Bahá’u’ lláh in the op e n ing parag raphs of the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán: “They that tread
the path of fa i t h, they that thirst for the wine of ce r ti t ude” who have the in sight to seek “the shores of
the ocean of true unde rs tand in g” (‘ir f án) but have yet to at ta in the ultim ate goal of reun i on .
From the ab ove may be gat h e red therefore that in at te mp ting to de s c r ibe the inde s c r ib able, the mys-
ti c’s purpose is allu sive rather than de s c r i p tive, and is a im ed at those held to have the capacity to prof-
it from the guid ance, nam e l y, those with mys ti cal call ing even if as yet lac king in mys ti cal at ta inm e n t.
A nd if words and conce p ts, inc lud ing the concept of mys ti cal un i on, are held to be de s c r i p tively in ade-
qu ate or even alto gether bl a s ph e mous in jud ging the reality of God by merely hum an yard s ticks; yet are
h e ld to be at the same time did ac ti cally useful before a par ti cul arly rece p tive aud i e nce, then clearly their
purpose is not de s c r i p ti on, but rather to car ry the in te nded aud i e nce to a point be yond de s c r i p ti on; to
use lan g u age not so much to nullify as to tran s ce nd its e l f, so that words are possible but in e s capabl y
in ade qu ate, yet capable of trigge r ing within the reader a mys ti cal exp e r i e nce of the te xt.
Mys ti cal lan g u age and te r m inolo gy then, in purpose, is not de s c r i p tive but allu sive and evo cative, and
it is by evo cati on and allu si on that they con vey mean ing be yond words to those rece p tive to their im age s
by rea s on of wh at Bahá’u’ lláh de s c r ibes as their “purity of heart, chastity of soul, and fre edom of spir-
i t.”30 Evo cati on and allu si on to gether form the brid ge that conn ec ts the in te ll i gible with the in effable and
m akes mys ti cal teac h ing possibl e. It is a brid ge bu ilt by viv id im ages, used metaph or i cally and paradox-
i cally to con vey wh at is regarded as unut te rable truth.
He re is wh e re we dis cover the soci al dim e n si on of mys ti cal lan g u age. To be effec tively allu sive or
e vo cative lan g u age must at the outset be in te ll i gible; and to be in te ll i gible it must use im ages and con-
ce p ts that its aud i e nce is equ i pp ed to unde rs tand. Fur t h e r, the lan g u age used by an aut h or will be shap ed
by his or her in te ll ec t u al and cult ural bac k g round, and, for the mys tics under re v i e w, will add i ti on all y
be lim i ted by a de sire to re m a in within the bounds of Cat h olic or t h o dox y. We thus find our mys ti c s’ dis-
cu s si on profoundly in flue nced by, yet not reducible to, their soci al con te xt. Their treatises may in this
light be seen as a con ve rsati on be tween the ind iv idu al’s de e ply subj ec tive, inde s c r ib able, yet not incom-
mun i cable exp e r i e nce, and soci e t y’s mores and a s pirati on s. Time and space con s t ra in ts pre vent our deal-
ing with each of our mys tics ind iv idu all y, to see how their par ti cul ar con te xt in flue nced their writin g.
W h at we can at te mpt to ide n tify is ge n e ral ways in which the lan g u age of all of these mys tics is a ffec t-
ed by their environment, with par ti cul ar refe re nce to the concept of mys ti cal un i on.
We menti on ed that the in te ll ec t u al and cult ural bac k g round of the mys tics would a ffect their writ-
in gs. In this re s p ect it would be nat ural to exp ect that (m al e) un ive rsi t y-t ra in ed mys tics would pre s e n t
d i ffe re nces from the (fe m al e) non- acade m i cally tra in ed mys tics in our lis t. Inde ed, this app ears to be the
ca s e. The four un ive rsity tra in ed mys ti c s— B on ave n t ura, Jacop one da To d i, Su s o, and Taul e r—all refl ec t
a sim il ar in te ll ec t u al heritage that diffe rs som e wh at from the two fe m ale mys ti c s. In style if not al ways
in con tent, moreove r, Bon ave n t ura, Suso and Taul e r, the theolo gi ans, are set apart from Jacop one, the
e rs twh ile lawye r, the former usin g, unl ike the lat te r, prose rather than ve rse, and being far more pron e
to ci te, expl i citly or without ac knowl ed gement, the voi ce of schol arly aut h or i t y. In sharp con t rast, the
w r i ting of our women mys tics is comparatively de void of refe re nces, other than to the Bible and to pop-
ul arly acce s sible de voti on al stories, and is both less ph ilo s oph i cal and more in tim ate in charac te r.
A lo ok at the three theolo gi ans, alt h ough separated by many miles and decades, re veals them to share ,
as was menti on ed before, a common in te ll ec t u al heritage with Au g u s tine, Ps eudo -Di on ysius and
A r is totle, re pre s e n ting the maj or we ll s pr in gs of their thought, if not of their in s pirati on, which de r ive s
rather from the gospel and the lives of sa in ts, most si g n i f i cantly St. Francis.31 The same in te ll ec t u al
in flue nces are present in Jacop one da To d i, alt h ough less emph ati cally and less dis tinc t l y. By con t ra s t ,
the in flue nce of these three aut h ors on Cat h e r ine of Siena, alt h ough noti ceable, app ears neg l i gible, and
the same is the case with Angela di Fol i g no. This is most clearly refl ec ted in the re l ati on be tween the
1 2 4

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
concept of mys ti cal un i on with God and the ideas of Ps eudo -Di on ysi u s.
32 Ps eudo -Di on ysi u s’ ap oph ati c
t h eolo gy (s e eing God in negative te r m s—as a Darkness, as a Not h in g, etc .—by rea s on of His ut ter tran-
s ce nde nce) is one of the pr inci pal non-s c r i p t ural, expl i cit refe re nces in Bon ave n t ura’s “Journey of the
S oul ,” and is even more ubiqu i tous in Tauler and Su s o. Di on ysi an thought becomes less noti ceable thou g h
s till clearly apparent in Jacop one da To d i, and even less evident in Cat h e r ine of Siena and Angela di
Fol i g no. It would thus seem that the ap oph atic im age of un i on with God was med i ated by the un ive rsi-
ties and popul ar iz ed in the sermons and counsels of such as Tauler and other mys ti cally inc l in ed preac h-
e rs and con fe s s ors through wh om it would have reac h ed most lay p e rs ons aware of such teac h in g. This su g-
ge s ti on that the ap oph atic im ages of mys ti cal un i on we re tran s m i t ted by the schools rather than draw n
n at urally from exp e r i e nce is all the more pl au sible since, as Butler noted, earlier mys tics like Au g u s tin e ,
Gregory, and Be r n ard of Clairvaux, we re predom in antly a ff ir m ative, which is equ ivalent to say ing non-
Di on ysi an (or as he puts it pre-Di on ysi an) in their mys ti cis m .
33 I nde ed, the thought of Ps eudo -Di on ysi u s
was first tran s l ated in to Latin by John Scotus in the ninth ce n t ury, but did not become popul ar un til
the twe l fth ce n t ury. It was sub s e quently comm e n ted on by great schoolmen such as Hugh of St. Vi c tor,
T h omas Aqu inas, Eckh art and, as we have seen, Bon ave n t ura. It is thus no sur pr ise that the closer we
get to the un ive rsi ties, and the more we ad vance in time, the more ap oph atic our mys tics becom e.
Sim il arl y, it is lo gi cal to be l i e ve that the fr i ars, tra in ed in the un ive rsi ties yet preac h ing to the masses,
would have been a pr ime channel for the diffu si on of such thought among the people, par ti cul arl y
among lay membe rs of the mend i cant orde rs such as Jacop one da To d i, Angela di Fol i g no and Cat h e r in e
of Si e n a .
In the case of Bahá’u’ lláh, a theolo gi cally in for m ed Bahá’í pers p ec tive a s s e s sing the in flue nce of
B ahá’u’ lláh’s environment on the shape of His Re ve l ati on faces the te n si ons be tween illum in ating the
m ean ing of His message, and giv ing expre s si on to “such words as must of nece s sity imply the exis te nce
of any direct re l ati onship be tween the Pen of Thy Re ve l ati on and the essence of all created thin gs.” A
beginn ing howe ver may be made from Bahá’u’ lláh’s own ut te rance s. To take the example of the Seve n
Vall e ys, the book is clearly in flue nced in its for m al struc t ure by At tar’s Con fe re nce of Birds and
Sad i’s...
35 b oth of which use the struc t ure of seven stages to the eve n t u al de s tin ati on of mys tic un i on .
Wi t h in the Seven Vall e ys, mys ti cal poets such as Rum i, Ha f iz, etc., are ci ted ve ry fre que n t l y, in a way
t h at does not recur in other ge nres within Bahá’u’ lláh’s cor pus of Re ve l ati on. The de s c r i p ti ons of mys-
ti cal un i on, emph a sising the noti on of Poverty and Ab s olute Not h ingness like w ise echo a speci f i call y
Sufi mys ti cal trad i ti on.
Howe ver the key in flue nce in the lite rary shape of the Seven Vall e ys is likely to be the reci pient and
in te nded aud i e nce of the work, rather than Bahá’u’ lláh’s own pre v i ous educati on, as in the case of the
m e nd i cant mys ti c s. Thus Bahá’u’ lláh expl i citly states in the Seven Vall e ys: “so much as We have quoted
h e re is out of defe re nce to the wont of men and a fter the manner of the fr i e nd s.”36 In this as in so man y
a s p ec ts the Bahá’í Faith from its ve ry ro ots is a un iquely a self- con s ci ous re l i gi on, as de s c r ibed by the
founder of World Theolo gy, Will i am Can twe ll-Smith. The su g ge s ti on that the key fac tor in shaping the
form of the Seven Vall e ys is its in te nded aud i e nce may be stre n g t h e n ed by noting that the pre val e nce of
p o e tic quotes so striking in the Seven Vall e ys is not charac te r is tic of a rou g hly con te mp orary work deal-
ing in part with ve ry sim il ar themes, the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. There the supp or ting quotes are drawn pr im ar i-
ly from hadith (t rad i ti on s) and, as is common throu g h out His writin gs, the Qur’án. In the ˆqán as we ll ,
B ahá’u’ lláh expresses His con sis tent approach to ci tati on of aut h or i t y: “A lt h ough We did not in te nd to
m ake menti on of the trad i ti ons of a bygone age, yet, because of Our love for thee, We will ci te a fe w
which are appl i cable to Our arg um e n t.”37 Towards the end of His min is t ry in H is Epistle to the Son of
the Wol f, Bahá’u’ lláh clar i f i ed the purpose be h ind this variety of styles, of lan g u ages of Re ve l ati on :
So powe r ful is the light of unity that it can illum in ate the wh ole ear t h .... At one time We spoke
in the lan g u age of the lawgive r; at another in that of the trut h-s e e ker and the mys tic, and ye t
O ur supreme purpose and highest wish hath al ways been to dis c lose the glory and subl imity of
t h is stati on .38
1 2 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
T h is pa s sage in tim ates that Bahá’u’ lláh’s styles we re in te n ti on ally adop ted to speak to diffe rent aud i-
e nces the unde rl y ing message of unity which forms the lei t motif of His Re ve l ati on, and that the pr inci-
ple of adop ting styles and im ages that maxim ise the evo cative power of the te xts to their in te nded aud i-
e nce.
The need to ta ilor lan g u age to aud i e nce was shared by the mend i cant mys tics under review as we ll. We
f ind, by way of illu s t rati on, that German mys tics use te r m inolo gy not employed by the more num e rou s
Ital i ans on our lis t. A case in point is the term “g round” to signify the essence of the soul wh e re the
im age of God is found, the pl ace of “hyposta sis” wh e re the un i on of the soul with God takes pl ace. The
idea goes back to Ps eudo -Di on ysius and before that to Plotinus, and was in flue n ti ally used in German
circles by Meis ter Eckh art him s e l f.
39 The term was also used, it seems, by George Fox and Jul i an of
Norwhich among ot h e rs in England, but does not app ear in our Ital i an mys ti c s’ vo cabul ary, even thou g h,
as we have expl a in ed, Bon ave n t ura at least, and likely also Jacop one da To d i, had direct knowl ed ge of
Ps eudo -Di on ysi u s. The ro ot of the diffe re nce therefore ve ry possibly lies in the diffe r ing aud i e nce s. In
wh i c h e ver way it became common in Germany as a mys ti cal te r m, the word “g round” was clearly a fam il-
i ar feat ure of mys ti cal dis course by the time John Tauler was using it in his sermons to var i ous con g re-
gati ons of nuns who could not have been exp ec ted to have ac qu ired knowl ed ge of Di on ysius at un ive rsi-
t y. The im age of the ground of the soul is ubiqu i tous in Tauler and is almost as common in Su s o, yet is
wh olly absent in all other mys tics under re v i e w. In Ital y, wh e re the rest of our mys tics or i gin ate, the te r m
was clearly not cur rent, so that even if Bon ave n t ura and Jacop one da Todi we re fam il i ar with this te r m,
and even if they had found it de s c r i p tively ve ry useful, being largely unknown to their in te nded aud i-
e nces, it would have been did ac ti cally useless.
We also menti on ed the de sire for or t h o doxy as a si g n i f i cant fac tor in the way lan g u age is used by our
m ys ti c s. We may see this most clearly in the dis cu s si ons of mys ti cal un i on with God by He nry Su s o. In
h is Little Book of Tr ut h, written aga inst the bac k g round of the conde mn ati on of Meis ter Eckh art —
Su s o’s teac h e r— for heresy (on the grounds of pan t h eis tic use of lan g u age in deal ing with the concept of
m ys ti cal un i on),40 Suso goes out of his way to state that the coll apse of dis tinc ti ons be tween man and
God in the div ine un i on is one of perce p ti on rather than of sub s tance.41 Man re m a ins man and God
re m a ins God, except that man ceases to think in terms of this dichotom y. Ontolo gi cally howe ve r, the
gap be tween Div inity and hum anity is unb r id geable, except in Chr ist, and in Chr ist alon e.42 So emph at-
ic is he on this point that he holds a real iz ati on of the truth of this in e rad i cable dis tinc ti on be tween man
and God to be an essenti al pre re qu isi te of at ta inment to mys ti cal un i on .43 A lt h ou g h, with vary in g
deg rees of emph a sis, all our write rs app ear to ag ree on this point, none is so expl i cit nor so in sis tent a s
Su s o, nor is the con te xt for such dis cu s si on so poi g n ant or re l e vant as it is in his ca s e.
In the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh is the same theolo gi cal self- con s ci ousness, the same expl i cit effort to
bind spir i t u al exp e r i e nce within a theolo gi cal unde rs tand ing that pre s e rved the dis tinc ti on be tween the
d iv ine and the merely hum an, the fin i te and the in f in i te. In the Seven Vall e ys, hav ing de s c r ibed the
e xp e r i e nce of mys tic un i on in the Valley of Unity, Bahá’u’ lláh dec l are s:
Howe ve r, let none con s t r ue these ut te rances to be an t hrop omor ph is m, nor see in them the
de s cent of the worlds of God in to the grades of the creat ures; nor should they lead thin e
E m in e nce to such a s sump ti on s. For God is, in His Essence, holy ab ove a s cent and de s ce n t ,
e n t rance and exi t; He hath through all eternity been free of the at t r ibutes of hum an creat ure s ,
and ever will re m a in so. No man hath ever known Him; no soul hath ever found the pat h way to
H is Bein g. Eve ry mys tic knower hath wande red far a s t ray in the valley of the knowl ed ge of Him ;
e ve ry sa int hath lost his way in seeking to compre h e nd His Essence.44
To conc lude, ph e nom e nolo gi call y, the for mul ati on of the concept of mys ti cal un i on app ears to find
ro ots in a dis tinc tive kind of mys ti cal exp e r i e nce: pers on al, illum in atin g, tran s ce ndent and clim ac ti c—
pa s sive, no e tic, in effable, in the words of Will i am Jam e s. An exp e r i e nce or state far ab ove any and all
words to de s c r ibe, if not to hint at. Inde ed, the concept of “m ys ti cal un i on” app ears to have been con-
ceived not so much to de s c r ibe the fe e l ing or exp e r i e nce of the mys ti c—a forlorn hop e —as to hint at its
n at ure; to evoke an in t u i ti on of it in the rece p tive heart by means of viv id metaph or i cal and often para-
1 2 6

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
doxi cal im age ry. Rece p tivity to this im age ry was sa id by these mys tics to de p e nd on a subtle combin a-
ti on of effort and grace in the quest for this same “m ys ti cal un i on .” The concept of “m ys ti cal un i on” thu s
s tands out as did ac tic in purpose even if de s c r i p tive or specul ative in for m, a im ing at impar ting non-
d is cursive knowl ed ge to rece p tive aud i e nces, in order to facil i tate or add mom e n t um to these aud i e nce s’
on going mys ti cal journey towards “reun i on” with God. Images and de s c r i p ti ons are useful to our mys-
tics only in s ofar as they are able to evoke such non- d is cursive appre h e n si on, or rather in tim ati on, of a
s tate exp e r i e nced first hand by them and un i for mly stated to lie be yond the capacity of lan g u age to
de pict, yet evidently not be yond its power to allude (which in a ce r ta in way is a capacity to lead toward s).
It would seem that, at the ind iv idu al level at least, Bahá’u’ lláh takes a sim il ar approach to Re ve l ati on .
Its main purpose is not to in form but to tran sfor m, and the de p t hs of mean ing that lie within the Sac red
Word can be plumbed only by the spir i t u ally pre pared, that is, the spir i t u ally thirs t y. In the Ki t á b -i-
ˆqán, Bahá’u’ lláh emph ati cally state s: “The unde rs tand ing of His words and the compre h e n si on of the
ut te rances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise de p e ndent up on hum an lear n in g. They de p e nd sol e l y
up on purity of heart, chastity of soul, and fre edom of spir i t. This is evide nced by those wh o, to d ay,
t h ough without a single letter of the acce p ted stand ards of lear n in g, are occupy ing the loftiest seats of
knowl ed ge.”
45 By unde rs tand in g, Bahá’u’ lláh clearly means som e t h ing deeper than the purely lin g u is ti c
or even in te ll ec t u al compre h e n si on ava il able to all al ike—the acce p ted stand ards of lear n in g. Rather it is
su g ge s ted that he means a tran sfor m ati on al exp e r i e nce of the te xt lead ing to an essenti ally mys ti cal exp e-
r i e nce. Like the mys tics, Bahá’u’ lláh writes pr im ar ily not to exp ound but to tran sfor m .
T h is fund am e n tal in te n ti on nece s si tates that the lan g u age used be in te ll i gible, inde ed evo cative to the
in te nded aud i e nce. This, to gether with a de sire to keep mys ti cal lan g u age within the bounds of do c t r i-
n al clar i t y, and, par ti cul arly in re l ati on to the mys tics, life exp e r i e nce, make the use mys ti cal im age ry
and lan g u age heav ily in flue nced by the soci al environm e n t. Thus the cult ural and in te ll ec t u al make-up
of the in te nded aud i e nce will be a fac tor in the choi ce of im age ry used to evoke in t u i ti ons of the mys-
ti c s’ in effable exp e r i e nce. The concern for do c t r in al clarity will act as a con s t ra int on mys ti cal dis cours e ,
in flue ncin g, among other thin gs, the deg ree of emph a sis and elab orati on de voted to var i ous a s p ec ts of
m ys ti cal exp e r i e nce in order to justi f y, if nece s sary, the use of im ages of great evo cative pote n ti al but of
do c t r in al ambi g u i t y. The in te ll ec t u al bac k g round of the mys tic will a ffect both his style and his choi ce
of im age ry with which he at te mp ts to ar ti cul ate his in si g h ts. In the case of Re ve l ati on, the in te ll ec t u al
e n v ironment of the Prophet clearly in flue nces, at the ve ry least, the lan g u age of scripture, the que s ti on s
He is a s ked, the aud i e nces He engages with, and the lite rary and ph ilo s oph i cal heritage He draws on. This
accoun ts to a con side rable deg ree for the diffe re nces be tween mys ti cal write rs even within the same re l i-
gi ous and even mon a s tic trad i ti on. It unde rlies the pivotal pr inci ple of Bahá’í theolo gy — pro g re s sive re v-
e l ati on .
In a way that re s on ates with the Bahá’í noti on of the fund am e n tal oneness of re l i gi on, there app ears
to be at the heart of mys ti cism a fund am e n tal oneness or con ve rge nce of re l i gi ous exp e r i e nce. In the re l i-
gi ous accoun ts of the mys tics, notw i t hs tand ing the var i e ties of expre s si on, the rh e tor i cal effect of the
var i ous im ages used seems to coincide to a re m ark able deg ree in evoking a shared sense of clim ax, of
in effabil i t y, of illum in ati on, of encoun te r, and of moral de ve lopm e n t. This su g ge s ts that the exp e r i e nce
alluded to by the concept of “m ys ti cal un i on,” alt h ough ir reducibly subj ec tive in charac te r, has an obj ec-
tive nat ure which allows it to be exp e r i e nced by a multi t ude of mys ti c s— which a s sump ti on unde rlies the
ve ry at te mpt of our mys tics at commun i cating som e t h ing of their in si g h ts and exp e r i e nce s. It is this that
e n ables mys tics to quote libe rally from each other to illu s t rate their exp e r i e nce s. The link be tween suc h
m ys ti cal exp e r i e nce and Re ve l ati on is most comp e ll ingly illu s t rated by Bahá’u’ lláh’s use of mys ti c s’ writ-
in gs to val id ate His own Re ve l ati on. This su g ge s ts that the mys ti c s’ de s c r i p ti on of his or her jour n e y
towards God pote n ti ally holds in si g h ts that can help illum in ate our exp e r i e nce of the Word of God.
A lt h ough the state alluded to by the concept of mys ti cal un i on is a ff ir m ed by the mys tics we have
re v i e wed to be inde s c r ib able, it is inde ed con side red commun i cable, at least par ti all y, to kindred soul s ,
e ven if to those not mys ti cally inc l in ed the mys ti c’s words might app ear not so much paradoxi cal a s
m e rely con t rad i c tory — not so much in effable as hopelessly incon g r uou s. Mys ti cal lan g u age is thus in a
way exc lu sive in its func ti on in g, even if not by de si g n, in s ofar as its proper unde rs tand ing is expl i ci t l y
1 2 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
h e ld to be cond i ti on ed on the since re de sire for, and ac tively pursuit of, the mys ti c’s goal. It is con sid-
e red to elude in t r in si cally the compre h e n si on of ot h e rs wh o, though re mote from the mys ti c’s ow n
inmost a s pirati ons, care nonetheless to eave s drop on his con ve rsati on. To such as these the mys tics we
h ave con side red do not address themselves nor do they exp ect to be prop e rly unde rs tood by such (to the
m ys ti c s) worldly ears. If the mys tics speak to them at all it is un in te n ti on all y, one might almost say
aga inst their will. In this light, the concept of mys ti cal un i on, as far as the mys tic is conce r n ed, take s
on the charac te r, not of an expl an ati on but of a riddl e —a guide to the de vout and mys ti cally inc l in ed and
an ob s t r uc ti on to the worldly and the un s pir i t u al — to be unrave ll ed only by lov in g, year n ing effor t ,
a s sis ted by grace, guided by a de sire to at ta in to that exp e r i e nce which in the mys ti c s’ eyes, a s
B on ave n t ura wrote, “is mys ti cal and most sec ret, which no one knows, except him who receives it, no
one receives except him who de sires it, and no one de sires except him who is in fl am ed by the fire of the
Holy Spirit which Chr ist sent in to the world .”
“But if you want to know how these thin gs come ab out, ask grace not in s t r uc ti on, de sire not unde r-
s tand in g, the groan ing of prayer not dil i gent read in g, the Sp ouse not the teac h e r, God not man, dark-
ness not clar i t y, not light but the fire that totally in fl ames and carries us in to God by ec s tatic unc ti on s
and bur n ing a ffec ti on s.”
The words of Bahá’u’ lláh show a fund am e n tal har mony be tween mys ti cal hermeneutics as exp ounded
ab ove and scriptural hermeneutics as prop ounded in the Bahá’í writin gs. In the Bahá’í writin gs, to o,
unde rs tand ing of the scared Word is held to be cond i ti on ed on a spir i t u al or i e n tati on, and the pursu i t
of knowl ed ge is fram ed in a paradigm of spir i t u al be l i efs, at ti t udes and skills that are sa id to med i ate
t r ue lear n in g:
K now ve r ily that Knowl ed ge is of two kind s: Div ine and Satanic. The one we lleth out from the
foun ta in of div ine in s pirati on; the other is but a refl ec ti on of va in and ob s cure thou g h ts. The
s ource of the former is God Him s e l f; the motive-force of the lat ter the wh is p e r in gs of selfis h
de sire. The one is guided by the pr inci pl e: “Fear ye God; God will teach you”; the other is but a
con f ir m ati on of the truth: “K nowl ed ge is the most grievous veil be tween man and his Creator.”
The former brin geth forth the fruit of pati e nce, of lon ging de sire, of true unde rs tand in g, and
love; wh ilst the lat ter can yield naught but ar ro gance, va in g lory and concei t.... The heart mu s t
n e eds therefore be clean s ed from the idle say in gs of men, and sanc ti f i ed from eve ry ear t hl y
a ffec ti on, so that it may dis cover the hidden mean ing of div ine in s pirati on, and become the
t rea sury of the mys teries of div ine knowl ed ge.48
The key dis tinc ti on here app ears to ce n ter not so much around a diffe rent methodolo gy in purely tec h-
n i cal terms, but around a dis tinc tive or i e n tati on with its accompan y ing effec t. For in s tance, in re l ati on
to scripture, a read ing of the sac red Word whose “motive-force” is “the wh is p e r in gs of selfish de sire” is
l ikely to lead in the schol ar to “ar ro gance, va in g lory and concei t” and be in dan ger of ac ting as a “mo s t
g r i e vous veil be tween man and his Creator.” The conc lu si ons drawn will, it app ears, be “but a refl ec ti on
of va in and ob s cure thou g h ts.” On the other hand, a read ing that is in for m ed by a pers on al quest for
d iv ine in s pirati on and con s ci ous effort to cleanse and sanc tify on e’s motivati on and pers p ec tive, will
m ake the heart rece p tive to div ine in s pirati on and knowl ed ge — t h at is, spir i t u ally in for m ed in si g h t. The
m ea sure of success in this endeavour is aga in at ti t ud in al at hear t: yield ing “the fruit of pati e nce, of lon g-
ing de sire, of true unde rs tand in g, and love.” The same may be sa id of any branch of knowl ed ge, alt h ou g h
p e rh aps none more so than scriptural stud y.
The impl i cati on seems to be that Bahá’u’ lláh regards all knowl ed ge pote n ti ally as a brid ge towards that
supra- d is cursive knowl ed ge which the mys tics strive for. He thus links the pursuit of knowl ed ge to the
m ys ti c’s quest and the prac ti ce of wors h i p, wh i c h, as Shoghi Effe ndi adumb rated, has at its heart “t h at
m ys tic fe e l ing which un i tes Man with God.” He nce, the famous sente nce ci ted by Bahá’u’ lláh in the Book
of Certi t ude among other pl aces, “K nowl ed ge is one point, which the fo ol ish have multi pl i ed.”49 From
t h is pers p ec tive true knowl ed ge is a spir i t u al, mys ti cal state of commun i on with God (the “single poin t” )
t h at may be trigge red by, but not con ta in ed in hum an lear n in g. When hum an lear n ing is earnestly pur-
sued in a spirit of worship and mys ti cal quest, the pro cess of schol arship becomes a pro cess of reun i on
1 2 8

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
with God. When human learning is on the other hand divorced from spiritual questing, and particularly
when it is dr iven by egotis ti cal or selfish motivati ons, it ac ts as a dis s o ci ative pro cess separating the
s c h ol ar’s soul from his Be loved, and imp ed ing the flow of that “m ys tic fe e l in g” of the pre s e nce of God
w i t h in the soul, which Bahá’u’ lláh, no less than the mys tics under re v i e w, equ ates with true unde rs tand-
in g.
W h at if any are the methodolo gi cal impl i cati ons of such an or i e n tati on? Clearl y, the ab ove pers p ec-
tive is not methodolo gi cally pre s c r i p tive in a tec hn i cal way. Two schol ars could lo ok at the same pa s sage
of scripture with ide n ti cal methodolo gies and even possibly reach ide n ti cal conc lu si ons, even if their
s pir i t u al or i e n tati on was diam e t r i cally opp o si te. What would ce r ta inly differ would be the effect of the
pro cess up on each schol ar’s soul, with one reaping the fruit of va in g lory, and the other the fruit of love.
But in add i ti on, the like l ihood is that the pro cess of in ve s ti gati on, the tone of their writin gs, and the
re l ati onship to exis ting schol arship will also diffe r. These are the key areas wh e re a mys ti cal or i e n tati on
to schol arship as de s c r ibed ab ove would have a bear in g.
For in s tance, a mys ti cally or i e n ted schol arship could inc lude in the pro cess of in ve s ti gati on the culti-
vati on of praye r, and, within a Bahá’í parad i g m, possibly con sultati on as we ll. The tone of on e’s ut te r-
ance might seek con s ci ously to be con s e n sus bu ild ing and con s t r uc tive, and stre nuously avoid con t ro-
ve rsy and in te mp e rate criti cism of diffe r ing views. Exis ting schol arship would be re v i e wed in a spirit of
impar ti al i t y, hum il i t y, and great cour te s y, usin g, par ti cul arly when offe r ing con s t r uc tive criti cis m,
“words as mild as milk.”50 T h is does not mean that only spir i t u ally in for m ed schol arship would be
ador n ed with these vir t ues, as those pote n ti al i ties are open to all schol ars to a greater or lesser deg re e.
But a spir i t u al or i e n tati on to schol arship is likely to ge n e rate the motive power to make this pro ce s s
inc rea singly ref in ed, penetratin g, and profound.
Wi t h in the Bahá’í community the possibility exis ts to evol ve a dis tinc tive cult ure of schol ars h i p,
whose ultim ate obj ect could be to lead oneself and on e’s aud i e nce to a closer re l ati onship with the
Div in e. In such a cult ure the lan g u age of schol arship would be likely to de ve lop gradu ally over decade s
and ce n t uries in to a vehicle of spir i t u al evo cati on as we ll as tec hn i cal de s c r i p ti on. Whether this per-
s p ec tive is val id or not, Bahá’í schol arship over the com ing decades face the chall e n ge of exp e r im e n tin g
with dive rse approaches to brin ging spir i t u ality and faith to bear on the schol arly endeavour. Some will
be inc l in ed towards a min im al ist approach that keeps re l i gi on as far as possible impl i cit rather than
e xpl i cit in methodolo gies and outcom e s. Others are likely to make bold to bring faith to bear in a more
e xpl i cit fa s h i on in their schol ars h i p, wh ile still ot h e rs are likely to exp e r iment with both approaches in
accord ance with the diffe rent aud i e nces for their schol arly endeavour. As has been the case in pre v i ou s
re l i gi ous trad i ti ons it seems pl au sible to exp ect that the fruit of the present ferment of schol arly effor t
in the Bahá’í community will eve n t u ally be a dis tinc tively Bahá’í paradigm of schol arship within wh i c h
a number of methodolo gies co e xis t. As with pre v i ous faith trad i ti ons, this paradigm is likely in due
course to in teg rate a de voti on al, even mys ti cal or i e n tati on, which has at its heart a con s ci ousness of the
in effability and tran sfor m ative in flue nce of true knowl ed ge. The voi ce of He nry Suso might we ll com e
in due course to re s on ate with the deep voi ce of Bahá’í schol arship:
W h at I exp e r i e nce is bot tomless; wh at I love is endless; and therefore, wh at I want to say is
wordl e s s.
Appendix: Biographical Information
On the Francis can side, the first of our mys tics is St. Bon ave n t ura (c .1217–1274), de s c r ibed at times a s
the Francis can Orde r’s second founde r. Born at a time when the Francis can order was reac h ing its peak,
he was to become one of its fore most schol ars and mys ti c s. Alt h ough from the moment he join ed the
Francis cans (1243), and especi ally a fter he became Min is ter General of the Orde r, Bon ave n t ura lived a
l i fe of in tense ac tiv i t y, schol arly and adm in is t rative, his mys ti cal writin gs and widely ac knowl ed ged
sa in t l iness te s tify to the unm is tak able richness of his inner life. Of his many writin gs ded i cated to the
m ys ti cal life, we have chosen to fo cus on his Itin e rar i um Me n tis in Deum (t ran s l ated as “The Soul’s
1 2 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Journey in to God” ), widely reco g n iz ed as his maste r pi ece. The book was widely read in the Middle Age s
and is to d ay the most popul ar of his many work s. Con te mpl ative rather than lyrical in tone, it brou g h t
to gether and cor re l ated exis ting trad i ti ons of spir i t u ality ce n te red on nat ure, on the soul and on God
and in teg rated them in the form of a med i tati on on St. Francis' clim ac tic visi on of a six win ged Seraph,
wh e re each wing became a mo de of con te mpl ating and reac h ing un to God.
T h e re follows Jacop one da Todi (c .1230–1306). Born from an ar is to c ratic Umb r i an fam il y, Jacop on e
became, a fter stud y ing in Bologna, the med i e val academic stron g h old of the legal profe s si on, a nota i o,
a posi ti on mixing the roles of lawyer and accoun tan t. On the death of his wife, “for rea s ons that are
more or less pl au sibly conj ec t ural” (Hughes, p. xix), he tur n ed his back on his pre v i ous life and emb arked
on a life of ext reme penite nce. After ten years pr ivati ons, in his late for ties, he join ed the Francis can
orde r. At this time (1278), the fr i ars minor we re unde rgoing great con v ul si ons that would before long lead
to an open schism be tween the Spir i t u als, ove r r id ingly comm i t ted to Francis’ ideal of pove r t y, which had
been wate red down by the Papac y, and the Con ve n t u als, also comm i t ted to pove r t y, but equ ally com-
m i t ted to Francis’ ideal of obed i e nce to ecc l e si a s ti cal aut h or i t y, which de m anded a mea sure of compro-
m ise in ob s e rv ing the rule of pove r t y. Jacop one, pred i c tabl y, sided prom inently with the Spir i t u als, and
was lead in to direct con flict with Pope Bon i face VIII, re sulting in his excommun i cati on and impr is on-
ment, commuted only on the death of Bon i face the VIII by his succe s s or, Be n edict XI. Less con te mpl a-
tive and more lyrical than Bon ave n t ura’s mys ti cal writin gs, Jacop on e’s Lauds are sa id to re present the
best Ital i an poetry before Dan te. Full of fe rvour and pa s si on, they are in for m ed by a ph ilo s oph i cal ele-
ment that makes his mys ti cism at once deep and stir r in g. Inte re s tin g l y, Sufi in flue nce has been traced in
h is poems, from the incan tatory re p e ti ti on of par ti cul ar words in a manner re m in is cent of Dh ikr,
t hrough the concept of self- ann ih il ati on as the means of at ta inment and the pers on i f i cati on of this self-
ann ih il ati on and of other vir t ues in the form of a maide n, to the use of the Qur’ánic im age of man a s
c reated from a sor ry ge r m .
Rou g hly con te mp orary to Jacop one da To d i, Angela di Fol i g no (c .1248 –c .1309) was also born in the
regi on of Umbria of pro s p e rous pare n ts. She did not have for m al school in g, but is sa id to have been abl e
to read and possibly to write. She mar r i ed at twe n t y, lead ing a ve ry ac tive soci al life un til, troubl ed by a
sin, possibly of a sexu al nat ure, she went to con fe s si on, but, too a s h am ed to te ll the wh ole story, received
C ommun i on con s ci ous of her tran sg re s si on. The re sulting struggle with her con s ci e nce preci pi tated her
con ve rsi on, which she de s c r ibes in ei g h teen steps, lead ing to her exp e r i e ncing a profound “s e n timent of
G o d” in praye r. Therea fter we follow her pro g ress in a series of te mp tati ons and a multi t ude of ec s tati c ,
rap t urous visi ons that stimul ate con te mpl ati on on the nat ure of God, the su ffe r in gs of Chr ist, and the
Tr in i t y. An ec s tatic through and throu g h, her at ti t udes strike one ofte n times as ext reme, yet her exp e-
r i e nces, at a deeper level, app ear as both ardent and profound, and in var i ably exalted. Unl ike Jacop on e ,
t h e re is no sign that she engaged in any way in the con t rove rsies that we re pull ing the Francis cans apar t
dur ing her life tim e.
Tur n ing now to the Dom in i cans, we may begin by He nry Suso (c .1300–1365). Born in the regi on of
Swabia to a noble fam il y, Suso join ed the Dom in i cans in his early te e n s. From that early age he exp e r i-
e nced for some years, usu ally tw i ce a day, ec s tatic states and man i fold visi ons of Chr ist, of the Virgin,
of Ete r n al Wis dom, and of the Sa in ts. His early life was charac te r iz ed by a rigorous a s ce ti cis m, wh i c h,
h owe ve r, became less ext reme as his sense of real iz ati on inc rea s ed. He stud i ed at Cologne wh e re he
would have heard Eckh art preac h, and in his Little Book of Tr ut h s p eaks of him as “the maste r.”
A lt h ough sympat h e tic, Suso was an inde p e ndent thinke r, as Davies re m arked. Su s o’s Little Book of
Ete r n al Wis dom was one of the most popul ar mys ti cal books of the Middle Ages, both for its read abil i-
ty (Suso puts the dialo g ue form to ve ry good use in the form of a dis cu s si on be tween a dis ci ple and
Ete r n al Wis dom), and for its de p t h, clarity and spir i t u al upl i ft. His Little Book of Tr ut h deals pr im ar i-
ly with the concept of mys ti cal un i on, and con ta ins, in add i ti on, a defense of Eckh art and a de s c r i p ti on
of the pro cess of self- ab andonment by which we reach un to God.
John Tauler (c .1300–1361), another lead ing Rhin e l and mys tic and a con te mp orary of Su s o’s , was bor n
in St ra sb ourg from a re s p ec table ci tizen fam il y. Like Su s o, he join ed the Dom in i cans in his early te e n s
and, a fter two years’ nov i ti ate and eight years of study in St ra sb ourg, was sent to Cologne for higher
1 3 0

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
s t ud i e s. It is highly prob able that he heard Eckh ar t’s preac h ing at both St ra sburg and Colo g n e. By age 25
he was an ord a in ed priest and is sa id to have adop ted already the mys ti cal path. Taul e r’s legacy is his ser-
mons, which he preac h ed from then un til his death. Other works a s c r ibed to him app ear to be spur i ou s.
H is sermons may be div ided, typi call y, in to those of the year and those de voted to Holy Days. It is the
l at ter of these that we have stud i ed in tran s l ati on. The sermons are prom inent in Mar i an de voti on,
Di on ysi an theolo gy and Eckar ti an mys ti cis m, and are ge n e rally sober and cauti ous, yet upl i fting and
illum in atin g. To Jacop one da To d i’s self- ann ih il ati on and Su s o’s self- ab andonment, Tauler posi ts the
d y ing life as the path of perfec ti on. His dis cu s si on of the an gelic hierarchies as re l ating to the var i ou s
areas or levels of the self is fa s cin atin g.
Fin ally we ar r ive at Cat h e r ine of Siena (1347–1380), the only wom an be sides St. There sa of Av ila to
h ave been gran ted the title of Doctor of the Rom an Cat h olic Churc h, for which she had to wait nearl y
six hundred years a fter her death. Born in Siena in the period of the Black Deat h, she was, for a chan ge ,
the child of a lowe r-class fam il y. She is sa id to have vowed her virginity to God from age seve n, and from
youth to have received visi ons and other mys ti cal exp e r i e nce s. At age twenty she had a profound exp e r i-
e nce of mys ti cal mar r i age to Chr ist, a fter which she gave herself wh olly to Him. She prac ti ced, like
A n gela di Fol i g no, great char i t y, car ing for the sick and the poor. Her re putati on as a spir i t u al coun s e lor
g rew un s toppabl y, a ided by the supp ort and de voti on of her con fe s s or and dis ci ple, Ray mond of Capu a .
She became in vol ved in con te mp orary pol i tics in the con flict be tween ci t y-s tates and papac y, and exe r-
cis ed con side rable in flue nce on the papacy and on the Ital i an ci ti e s. In her last years she wrote the
Di alo g ue, her crow n ing work, in the form of a dialo g ue be tween herself and God wh e re God re s p ond s
to her re que s ts for illum in ati on on var i ous a s p ec ts of the mys ti cal life. Alt h ough in t r i cate, the book is
e xt remely rich in wis dom and spir i t u al i t y, and is often ve ry beauti ful inde ed.
Note s
1)  See for example But l e r, pp.1–4; James, pp. 299 –300; Migne, pp. 9–12; Unde rh ill, pp. 3–29; Wa i te, pp. 1–28. We have found
Wa i te’s etymolo gi cal study of the word “m ys ti cis m” a par ti cul arly useful survey of early def in i ti ons, alt h ough it should
be bal anced aga inst But l e r’s dis cu s si on of the concept of “con te mpl ati on,” which Butler regards as a term equ ivalent to
“m ys ti cis m,” as used by early We s tern mys ti cal write rs. More recent schol arship on mys ti cism ce n te rs around the writ-
in gs of such schol ars as Walter Stace, R.C. Zah e n e r, and Ste ven Katz (see Pike, pp. 87–115, 154–159 and 177–214, for a
t h orough and succinct dis cu s si on of their thou g h t).
2)  James, p. 300. For a thorough an al ysis and dis cu s si on of this first, mom e n tary kind of mys ti cal un i on see Pike, pa s sim .
Add i ti on all y, all our pr im ary sources con ta in de s c r i p ti ons of such exp e r i e nce s. Will i am Jam e s’ treatment of the topi c ,
alt h ough old and in some re s p ec ts dated, is still useful and al ways stimul atin g.
3) Most con te mp orary academic dis cu s si on of the concept of mys ti cal un i on app ears to have ce n te red on the first, tran si e n t
and rap t urous, state of mys ti cal un i on. A ve ry good dis cu s si on of the un i tive life may be found in Evelyn Unde rh ill’s ve ry
in flue n ti al book, Mys ti cis m, pp. 494–530.
4) We have chosen to fo cus on the works of John Tauler (c .1300–1361), He nry Suso (c .1300–1365) and Cat h e r ine of Si e n a
(1347–1380) on the Dom in i can side, and Bon ave n t ura (1221–1274), Jacop one da Todi (c .1230–1306), and Angela di
Folignio (1248 –1309) on the Francis can side. These mys tics may be sa id, with some add i ti ons, to re present the flowe r in g
of the mys ti cism a s s o ci ated with the Francis can and Dom in i can orde rs re s p ec tive l y. The geo g raph i cal and te mp oral span
d is tancing them from one another makes sim il ar i ties, by vir t ue of the ext remes they brid ge ac ross, all the more te ll in g
and comp e ll in g.
5) For the purposes of this essay we will adopt a ph e nom e nolo gi cal approac h, seeking to explore our mys ti c s’ self-unde r-
s tand ing without a s s e s sing the ge nu ineness of their exp e r i e nce. Rather than deb ating the val idity of their de s c r i p ti on s
we will seek to find their rati on ale, and re l ate it to the wider con te xt of their lives and of their world .
6) Shoghi Effe nd i, p. 88.
7) Bahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs, p.1.
8) Bahá’u’ lláh, Arabic H idden Word s, #13.
9) Su s o, pp. 185, 198.
10) To d i, pp. 266, 270, 271.
11) Fol i g no, pp. 154, 158 –159.
12) For refe re nces regard ing our re m a in ing aut h ors’ exp e r i e nces and sensati ons see Bon ave n t ura, pp.109 –113; Taul e r, p.124;
Siena, p. 364–365.
13) Bahá’u’ lláh, S e ven Vall e ys, p. 22, p.136.
14) See James, pp. 299 –300.
15) Bon ave n t ura, pp. 59 – 60, 56. For sim il ar state m e n ts in our other sources see Taul e r, pp. 95, 97; Su s o, p. 200, Siena, p.
307; To d i, pp. 268 –269; Fol i g no, p.124.
1 3 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
16) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, pp.195 –196.
17) James, p. 300.
18) Siena, p. 365. Cf. Bon ave n t ura, p. 114; Fol i g no, p.59; Su s o, p.195; Taul e r, p. 80, To d i, p. 266.
19) Bahá’u’ lláh, S e ven Vall e ys, p. 30.
20) Bon ave n t ura, p. 89.
21) Taul e r, p.124.
22) Su s o, p.192 .
23) Fol i g no, pp.155, 159.
24) Ibid. p.156.
25) Siena, p. 68.
26) To d i, p. 268.
27) Siena, p. 366.
28) Bon ave n t ura, p. 56.
29) Cf. Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p.1.
30) Cf. Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 211.
31) As far as the quoting of aut h or i ties goes we find the German Dom in i can mys tics refe r r ing to Aqu inas as an equ ally cru-
ci al in te ll ec t u al aut h or i t y, which we do not find even vag uely in Jacop one da To d i, much less in Bon ave n t ura who wa s
A qu in a s’ con te mp orary. On the other hand, we find Cat h e r ine of Siena, a Dom in i can te r ti ary, using St. Francis as an
e xe mpl ar re p eatedly and with evident de voti on, su g ge s ting that the lines be tween the two orde rs, at least as far as mys-
ti cism is conce r n ed, we re less sec tar i an at the popul ar than at the academic leve l .
32) A good dis cu s si on of Ps eudo -Di on ysi u s’ thou g h ts on the concept of mys ti cal un i on and his sub s e quent in flue nce on
C hr is ti anity may be found in Wa i te, chap ter III, esp. pp. 45 –54. His re l ati on to Neopl aton ism is dis cu s s ed by Armstron g,
pp. 367–371.
33) But l e r, pp.179 –182. Wa i te de votes some pages (pp.57–59) to a s s e r ting that Au g u s tine could not be call ed prop e rly a mys-
tic mainly by rea s on of this ab s e nce of Di on ysi an lan g u age; but But l e r’s arg um e n ts for inc lu si on of Au g u s tine among the
g reat Chr is ti an mys tics seems to us the more persu a sive.
34) A good and succinct ove rview of the fr i ars may be found in C.H. Law re nce’s The Fr i ars. Of re l e vance to our dis cu s-
si on may be menti on ed chap te rs 6, 7 and 10 of that book, deal ing with the links be tween the fr i ars and the un ive rsi ti e s ,
the towns and the Pope, under whose aut h ority they served as (often itin e ran t) preac h e rs and con fe s s ors, and in som e
m ea sure as popul ar iz e rs of con te mp orary theolo gi cal thou g h t.
35) For a more in depth dis cu s si on of Sufi moti fs in the S e ven Vall e ys see Mi c h ael Mc Car ron The Ineffable In Con te xt.
36) Bahá’u’ lláh, S e ven Vall e ys, p. 26.
37) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 237.
38) Bahá’u’ lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, p.14–15.
39) See Taul e r, p. 94, fo ot note 3.
40) On the re l ati on be tween Suso and Eckh art see Dav i e s’ exce llent and compre h e n sive study of Meis ter Eckh art, chap te r
10. The same chap ter also deals with the re l ati on of Eckh ar t’s thought to Taul e r’s. On Eckh ar t’s conde mn ati on for here s y,
see Davies, pp. 26–45, 195 –20.
41) Su s o, p.192 .
42) Su s o, p. 202 .
43) Suso p.184. Cf. Ibid. pp. 185.
44) Bahá’u’ lláh, S e ven Vall e ys, p. 23.
45) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 211.
46) Bon ave n t ura, p. 113.
47) Ibid., p. 115.
48) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p.69 –70.
49) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p.184.
50) Cf. Bahá’u’ lláh, Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, p.173.
Bibl i o g raph y
Pr im ary Source s
B ahá’u’ lláh, H idden Word s, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Lei ce s te r, UK .
S e ven Vall e ys, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Lei ce s te r, UK .
Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, B ahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Lei ce s te r, UK .
Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Lei ce s te r, UK .
Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh Re veal ed After the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Lei ce s te r, UK .
B on ave n t ura, “The Soul’s Journey in to God,” tran s l ated by Ewert Cou sins; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK, London,
1978.
1 3 2

Mystical Language, Re velation and Scholarship
Fol i g no, Angela di, “Of the Con ve rsi on, Pro g ress, and Visi ons of Blessed Ange l a”; tr. by Algar Thorold in Cat h olic Mys ti cis m,
pp. 90–172; Kegan Paul, Tre nc h, Tr ubner & Co. Ltd., London, 1900.
Shoghi Effe nd i, Direc tives of the Gu ard i an, p. 88.
Siena, Cat h e r ine of, “The Di alo g ue”; tr. By Suz anne Noffke; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK, London, 1980.
Su s o, He nry, Little Book of Ete r n al Wis dom & Little Book of Tr ut h; tr. by James Clark; Faber and Faber Ltd., London, nd .
Taul e r, John, The Inner Way: Thir t y-Six Sermons for Fe s tival s; tr. by A. W. Hut ton; Me t huen & Co, London, 1909.
To d i, Jacop one da, “The Laud s”; tr. by Serge and Eliz abeth Hughes; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i ty, SPCK, London, 1982.
S econd ary Li te rat ure
Age no, Franca, “Prefazi on e ,” in Jacop one da To d i, Laud i, Trat tato e Detti; Fe l i ce Le Monn i e r, Fire nze, 1958.
A r m s t ron g, A.H., “Greek Philo s ophy and Chr is ti an i t y,” in M.I. Finley (ed .), The Legacy of Gre ece, pp. 347–375; Clare ndon
Press, Oxford, 1988.
Brad y, Ig n atius, “Preface ,” in Bon ave n t ura, “The Soul’s Journey in to God,” etc.; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK ,
L ondon, 1978.
Browne, E. G., “Su f is m,” in Re l i gi ous Sys tems of the World: A Con t r ibuti on to the study of Comparative Re l i gi on, pp.
314–332; Swan Sonn e n s c h ein & Co Ltd., London. 1905.
But l e r, Cut hbert, We s tern Mys ti cism: Neg l ec ted Chap te rs in the His tory of Re l i gi on; Con s table & Co Ltd., London, 1922 .
C l ark, James M., “I n t ro duc ti on,” in He nry Su s o, Little Book of Ete r n al Wis dom, etc.; Faber and Faber Ltd, London, nd .
C ou sins, Ewert, “I n t ro duc ti on,” in Bon ave n t ura, “The Soul’s Journey in to God,” etc; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK ,
L ondon, 1978.
Davies, Ol ive r, Meis ter Eckh ar t: Mys ti cal Theolo gi an; SPCK, London, 1991.
Furlon g, Mon i ca, Visi ons and Lon gin gs: Med i e val Women Mys ti c s; Mowb ray, London, 1996.
Hughes, Serge, “I n t ro duc ti on,” in “Jacop one da To d i, The Laud s”; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK, London, 1982 .
Hut ton, Arthur Woll a s ton, “I n t ro duc ti on,” in John Taul e r, The Inner Way: Thirty Six Sermons for Fe s tival s, pp. xi –x l i i i;
Me t huen & Co Ltd., London, 1909.
James, Will i am, The Var i e ties of Re l i gi ous Exp e r i e nce; Mac m ill an Publ is h ing Co., New York, 1961.
L aw re nce, C.H., The Fr i ars; Lon g m an Group U.K Ltd., London, 1994.
Lill y, W. S., “Mys ti cis m,” in Re l i gi ous Sys tems of the World: A Con t r ibuti on to the study of Comparative Re l i gi on, pp.
631– 639; Swan Sonn e n s c h ein & Co Ltd., London. 1905.
Mi c h ael Mc Car ron, The Ineffable In Con te xt: A St udy Of Sufi Sy mb ols In The Ha ft Vad i, http://www.geo ci ti e s.com /
At h e n s/O rac l e/5016/su f is m .h t ml .
Migne, J. P., Di c ti on a ire de Mys tique Chr is ti e nn e; J. P. Migne, Par is, 1858.
Noffke, Suz anne, “I n t ro duc ti on,” in “Cat h e r ine of Siena, The Di alo g ue”; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK, London,
1980.
Pike, Nelson, Mys tic Union: An Essay in the Phenom e nolo gy of Mys ti cis m; Cor n e ll Unive rsity Press, London, 1992 .
Sap eg no, Natal ino, Frate Jacop on e; Ed izi oni del Bare ti, Tor ino, 1926.
U nde rh ill, Eve l y n, Mys ti cis m; Me t huen & Co. Ltd., London, 1912 .
Wa i te, A.E., The Way of Div ine Union; Will i am Rider & Son Ltd., London, 1915.
Z olla, Elemire, “Preface ,” in “Jacop one da To d i, The Laud s”; C l a s sics of We s tern Spir i t u al i t y, SPCK, London, 1982 .
1 3 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 3 4

Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islám
in The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh 1
by Brian A. Wittman
Abstract
T
he Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, Shoghi Effe nd i’s concise statement of the fund am e n tal ve r i ties of
B ahá’í be l i ef, con ta ins a number of imp or tant ke ys which lead Bahá’ís to a more compl e te unde r-
s tand ing of Islám.
The Dis p e n sati on m akes direct refe re nce to other Bahá’í writin gs that shed light on Islám, inc lud in g
the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (which quotes exte n sively from the Qur’án) and Nabíl’s Nar rative. God Passes By, a late r
work by Shoghi Effe nd i, fore s h adowed in The Dis p e n sati on, traces the deat h-kn e ll of the law of Islám
b ack to the trump e t-blast sounded by ˇáh ir ih at the con fe re nce of Bad as ht and pred i c ts the un ive rsal
reco g n i ti on and acce p tance of Bahá’u’ lláh by the Mu s l im world. In The Prom is ed Day is Com e, the
Gu ard i an an alyzes the impact on Islám of its refu sal to accept the Me s sage of Bahá’u’ lláh, inc lud ing the
coll apse of the Cal i ph ate, the ab ol i ti on of the Sultan ate, and the annulment of S harí‘ah canon i cal law.
The Dis p e n sati on uph olds Islám as an inde p e ndent re l i gi on and con f irms the Imáms as the legi tim ate
Succe s s ors of Mu ˙ amm ad. ‘A lí ’s app ointment by Mu ˙ amm ad as His Succe s s or was made ve rb all y, and is
not to be found in the Qur’án. The split of Islám in to Sunní and S hí‘ah branches, a schism which the
Gu ard i an has charac te r iz ed as “p e r m anent and cata s t roph i c ,” can be traced to the lack of a written do c-
ument from Mu ˙ amm ad establ is h ing ‘A lí as His Succe s s or.
Misunde rs tand in gs that have crept in to Islám are due to two source s: misin te r pre tati on of the Qur’án
(which is aut h e n ti c) and the use of Óadít h, which are the re p or ted say in gs of Mu ˙ amm ad and the Imám s.
S e ve ral misunde rs tand in gs addre s s ed in The Dis p e n sati on inc lude the fin ality of Re ve l ati on (since
Mu ˙ amm ad is the “S eal of the Proph e ts” His Re ve l ati on is fin al), and the non-be l i ef in the cruci f ixi on
of Chr is t. The Dis p e n sati on con f irms that the pro cess of Re ve l ati on is on going and ete r n al, and that
C hr ist was cruci f i ed, as at te s ted to by Bahá’u’ lláh Him s e l f.
The Bahá’í Fa i t h, being the latest Re ve l ati on from God, prov ides for re l i gi ous and adm in is t rative fea-
t ures not found in earlier re l i gi ons, inc lud ing Islám. These inc lude the Cove n ant of Bahá’u’ lláh, wh i c h
e s tabl ishes in written do cum e n ts the Succe s si on, the un ique stati on of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, and the Bahá’í
Adm in is t rative Orde r. The Bahá’í Adm in is t rative Order inc ludes the Gu ard i an s h i p, the Unive rsal Hou s e
of Ju s ti ce, a sys tem of elec ted adm in is t rative bodies, a series of app oin ted posi ti ons, and a compre h e n-
sive and aut h or i tative body of adm in is t rative pr inci ples and guide l ines laid down by Bahá’u’ lláh, ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá, and Shoghi Effe ndi. The Qur’án, wh ile lay ing down the basic laws and ord in ances of Islám, is
silent on the que s ti ons of succe s si on and adm in is t rati on. There exis ts no prov isi on in Islám, such as the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, to prov ide for on going aut h or i tative legis l ati on .
Fin all y, The Dis p e n sati on c l arifies that the Bahá’í Faith seeks not to unde r m ine Islám, but to re s tore
and rein v i gorate it and to a s sist in the real iz ati on of its highest a s pirati on s. To be true to the Me s sage
of Bahá’u’ lláh, we must view Islám and the Bahá’í Faith as essenti ally diffe rent stages of one and the
same re l i gi on. “T h is is the chan geless Faith of God, ete r n al in the past, ete r n al in the fut ure.”
1 3 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Introduction
The Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh is Shoghi Effe nd i’s maste r ful and concise statement of Bahá’í theo-
lo gi cal pr inci ples, or fund am e n tal ve r i ties as he calls them:
My chief concern at this chall e n ging period of Bahá’í his tory is rather to call the at te n ti on of
those who are de s tin ed to be the champi on-bu ilde rs of the Adm in is t rative Order of Bahá’u’ lláh
to ce r ta in fund am e n tal ve r i ties the elucid ati on of which must tre m e ndously a s sist them in the
effec tive pro s ecuti on of their mighty ente r pr is e.2
One ge n e rally ove rlo oked a s p ect of this wonde r ful letter is the way it helps us to de ve lop a cor rec t
unde rs tand ing and pers p ec tive on Islám, the re l i gi on which gave birth to both the Bábí and Bahá’í Fa i t hs.
T h is is especi ally imp or tant to Bahá’ís from a We s tern bac k g round because in for m ati on on Islám is
often highly dis tor ted, diff i cult to ob ta in, or not stated in terms that are read ily compre h e n sible to the
We s tern mind. Charles Le Gai Eaton has de s c r ibed this problem in his thou g h tful book, I s l am and the
D e s tiny of Man:
Most Mu s l im schol ars seem to ag ree, at least in pr ivate, that there has been a sin g ul ar fa ilure to
commun i cate ac ross the cult ural fron ti e r. The ac t u al means of commun i cati on—the way in wh i c h
re l i gi on needs to be pre s e n ted nowad ays— h ave been forged, not out of Islamic mate r i als, but in
the We s t. The Mu s l im writer finds himself obl i ged to work with in s t r um e n ts which do not fit
com for tably in his hand. Moreove r, trad i ti on al Mu s l ims, who have escap ed the in flue nce of
‘mo de r n,’ that is to say, occide n tal educati on have no unde rs tand ing of the occide n tal mind ,
which is as stran ge to them as it would be to a Chr is ti an of the Middle Age s … .
The trad i ti on al Mu s l im writes with aut h ority and con v i c ti on, but he does not know how to
an s wer the que s ti ons which dom in ate We s tern thought in the re l i gi ous con te xt.3
W h ile The Dis p e n sati on does not de vote a ve ry large perce n tage of its pages to Islám, and ce r ta inl y
cannot be call ed a treatise on the subj ect, it does prov ide a number of si g n i f i cant ke ys that help Bahá’ís ,
e s p eci ally We s tern Bahá’ís, unde rs tand Islám and put it in to a proper pers p ec tive. Shoghi Effe ndi is
un iquely qu al i f i ed to this ta s k, combin ing as he does the qu al i ties of aut h or iz ed in te r pre ter and spir i-
t u al succe s s or of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, We s te r n-t ra in ed schol ar, and a sin g ul ar genius for his tor i cal an al ysis.
Howe ve r, Shoghi Effe nd i’s highly conde n s ed exp o si ti on is a mix of the expl i cit and impl i ci t. Som e
imp or tant elements are con ta in ed in fl e e ting allu si on s. Vast theolo gi cal vis tas are often only briefl y
h in ted at, and the reader is left wan ting more than the Gu ard i an can possibly con vey in a 60-page lette r.
T h is being the case, the “ke ys” to Islám con ta in ed in The Dis p e n sati on can and should be ampl i f i ed by
a careful study of other Bahá’í te xts, inc lud ing Shoghi Effe nd i’s other lette rs and message s.
In brief, The Dis p e n sati on prov ides the follow ing “ke ys” to help us unde rs tand Islám from a Bahá’í
p e rs p ec tive. Each one of these will be explored in de ta il in a later sec ti on of this pap e r:
1. The Dis p e n sati on m akes refe re nce to Bahá’í Scriptures and other writin gs, inc lud ing the Ki t á b -i-
ˆqán, God Passes By, The Prom is ed Day is Com e, and Nabíl’s Nar rative, which to gether with the brief
but def in i tive pa s sages in The Dis p e n sati on s h ed light on Islám and give us a fuller unde rs tand ing of
the Bahá’í pers p ec tive on seve ral fund am e n tal que s ti on s.
2. The Dis p e n sati on uph olds Islám as an inde p e ndent re l i gi on and con f irms the Imáms as the legi ti-
m ate succe s s ors of Mu ˙ amm ad .
3. The Dis p e n sati on b oth expl i citly and impl i citly cor rec ts misunde rs tand in gs that have crept in to
I s lám .
4. The Dis p e n sati on ide n tifies new feat ures of the Bahá’í Dis p e n sati on for which there are no paral-
lels within Islám .
5. The Dis p e n sati on e s tabl ishes the goals of the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on in re l ati on to Islám .
1 3 6

Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m
Kitáb-i-ˆqán
The Dis p e n sati on quotes exte n sively from the Wr i tin gs of the Báb, Bahá’u’ lláh, and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. A
number of quotati ons are from the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, Bahá’u’ lláh’s maste r ful treatise on the nat ure of re l i gi on .
The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán i tself makes num e rous refe re nces to the Qur’án, as we ll as to say in gs of ‘A lí, Óu say n,
and Sád iq (f irst, third, and sixth Imáms, re s p ec tive l y). Not only is the We s tern reader of the ˆqán
e xp o s ed to the rh y t hm and tone of the Qur’ánic ve rses (in Shoghi Effe nd i’s beauti ful English tran s l ati on),
but a later Man i fe s tati on of God Himself (B ahá’u’ lláh) uses these ve rses to supp ort His re l i gi ous arg u-
m e n ts in supp ort of the Báb’s Re ve l ati on. While not offe r ing a compre h e n sive study of the Qur’án,
B ahá’u’ lláh’s refe re nces to the Qur’án in the ˆqán and in His other works such as ˆ prov ide Bahá’ís a com-
p e ll ing and dram atic exp o sure to the sac red book of Islám .
A nd a dram atic exp o sure to the Qur’án for non-A rabic speaking We s te r n e rs is no small feat, as evi-
de nced by the follow ing quotati ons from Muh amm ad, a bi o g raphy by Karen Armstron g:
In the case of the Qur’án there is also the problem of tran s l ati on. …T h e re is som e t h ing ab out
A rabic which is incommun i cable in another id i om: even the speeches of Arab pol i ti ci ans sound
s tilted, ar ti f i ci al and alien in an English tran s l ati on. If this is true of ord in ary Arabic, of mun-
d ane ut te rance or con ve n ti on al lite rat ure, it is doubly true of the Qur’án which is written in
h i g hly complex, dense and allu sive lan g u age … .
T h is does not mean that we should dis m iss the Qur’án ar ro gan t l y. It is not meant to be read like
other book s. If approac h ed in the right way, be l i e ve rs claim, it yields a sense of div ine pre s e nce.
T h is is diff i cult for som ebody who has been brought up in the Chr is ti an trad i ti on to unde rs tand
because Chr is ti ans do not have a sac red lan g u age, as San s krit, Heb re w, and Arabic are sac red to
H indus, Jews, and Mu s l im s.
…We s tern people te nd to find the Qur’án ted i ously re p e ti tive, because it seems to go over the
same ground aga in and aga in, but the book was not de si g n ed for pr ivate perusal but for liturgi-
cal reci tati on. When Mu s l ims lis ten to a sura in the mo sque, they are re m inded of the ce n t ral
te n e ts of the faith in a single reci tati on .4
Shoghi Effe ndi de s c r ibes the problem facing We s tern Bahá’ís in this way:
It is ce r ta inly most diff i cult to thorou g hly grasp all the Sú r ihs of the Qur’án, as it re qu ires a
de ta il ed knowl ed ge of the soci al, re l i gi ous and his tor i cal bac k g round of Arabia at the time of
the app earance of the Proph e t. …For the present, the Gu ard i an ag rees, that it would be ea sier and
more helpful to study the Book accord ing to subj ec ts, and not ve rse by ve rse and also in the light
of the Báb, Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s in te r pre tati on which throw such floods of light on the
wh ole of the Qur’án .
In add i ti on to refe re ncing the Qur’án its e l f, the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, and those of the Báb and
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in t ro duce us to and fam il i ar ize us with Islamic te r m inolo gy and conce p ts. In fact, an y
B ahá’í who makes a serious study of Islám will be am az ed to find ve ry many phrases and terms, wh i c h
he thought pre v i ously to be Bahá’í -s p ecific, that ac t u ally or i gin ate in Islám. The beauty of this si t u a-
ti on is that Bahá’ís who read the Wr i tin gs of the Central Fi g ures are autom ati cally taken to the spir i t u-
al heart of Islám.
God Passes By
The Dis p e n sati on ac t u ally fore s h adows later works by the Gu ard i an in the follow ing pa s sage:
It is not my purpose, as I lo ok back up on these crowded years of heroic de eds, to at te mpt eve n
a curs ory review of the mighty eve n ts that have tran s pired since 1844 un til the present day. Nor
h ave I any in te n ti on to unde r take an an al ysis of the forces that have preci pi tated them, or to
e valu ate their in flue nce up on peoples and in s ti t uti ons in almost eve ry con tinent of the globe.6
1 3 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
These works are none other than God Passes By (w r i t ten in 1944), and The Prom is ed Day is Com e
(w r i t ten in 1941). Sp eaking of a fut ure time of con ve rsi on to the Faith by Mu s l ims, God Passes By
de s c r ibes in seve ral pl aces a truly re m ark able proph ecy of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s that the “b anner of Yá Bahá’u’ l-
Abhá… must float from the pinn acles of the fore most seat of lear n ing in the Islamic world .”
7 The refe r-
e nce here is to Al-A z h ar Unive rsity in Ca iro, the most famous Islamic un ive rsity and semin ary.
In another am azing pa s sage in this same book, the Gu ard i an traces the extinc ti on of Islamic law, the
dec l ine and secul ar iz ati on of Islám, and the ultim ate con ve rsi on of all Mu s l im peoples to the Faith of
B ahá’u’ lláh, to the trump e t-blast of the New Dis p e n sati on sounded by ˇáh ir ih at the Con fe re nce of
B ad as ht:
A little over four years had elap s ed since the birth of the Báb’s Re ve l ati on when the trump e t-
blast announcing the for m al extinc ti on of the old, and the in au g urati on of the new Dis p e n sati on
was sounded…. The arena was a tiny hamlet in the pl a in of Bad as ht on the border of
M ázind ar án. The trump e ter was a lone wom an, the noblest of her sex in that Dis p e n sati on,
wh om even some of her co -re l i gi on is ts pronounced a here tic. The call she sounded was the deat h-
kn e ll of the twe l ve hundred year old law of Islám .
Acce l e rated, twenty years late r, by another trump e t-blast, announcing the for mul ati on of the
l aws of yet another Dis p e n sati on, this pro cess of disin teg rati on, a s s o ci ated with the dec l in in g
for t unes of a sup e rannu ated, though div inely re veal ed Law, gat h e red further mom e n t um, pre-
ci pi tated, in a later age, the annulment of the S harí‘ah canon i cal Law in Turke y, led to the vir-
t u al ab andonment of that Law in S hí‘ah Pe rsia, has, more rece n t l y, been re s p on sible for the dis-
s o ci ati on of the Sys tem envisaged in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s from the Sunní ecc l e si a s ti cal Law in
Egypt, has paved the way for the reco g n i ti on of that Sys tem in the Holy Land its e l f, and is de s-
tin ed to culm in ate in the secul ar iz ati on of the Mu s l im states, and in the un ive rsal reco g n i ti on
of the Law of Bahá’u’ lláh by all the nati ons, and its enthronement in the hear ts of all the peo-
ples, of the Mu s l im world .8
T h is pa s sage leaves us ab s olutely breat hless, combin ing as it does proph ec y, his tor i cal an al ysis
undreamt of by secul ar his tor i ans, and a dram atic recoun ting of the fac ts.
The Promised Day is Come
In The Prom is ed Day is Com e, Shoghi Effe ndi an alyzes the impact of the world’s refu sal to accept the
Me s sage of Bahá’u’ lláh and de votes more pages to these themes. It is be yond the scope of this paper to
ade qu ately de s c r ibe the Gu ard i an’s an al ysis, but some of the topics re l ated to Islám inc lude the follow-
in g:
1. The ge n e ral dec l ine of Re l i gi ous Orthodoxy (pp. 76– 80).
2. The Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh’s ca s ti gati on of the Mu s l im re l i gi ous div ines, who have been re s p on sibl e
for the peopl e’s rej ec ti on of the New Dis p e n sati on (pp. 87–93).
3. A de s c r i p ti on of the dec l ine of the S hí‘ah ecc l e si a s ti cal order (pp. 93–98).
4. The coll apse of the Cal i ph ate (pp. 98 –99).
5. The ab ol i ti on of the Sultan ate (pp. 99 –100).
6. The annulment of the S harí‘ah canon i cal Law and the promul gati on of a civ il co de in its pl ace (p.
101).
7. The de- arabiz ati on and de-I s l am i f i cati on of Turkey (p. 101).
Wr i ting of the for t unes of Sunní Islám in the twe n tieth ce n t ury, Shoghi Effe ndi de s c r ibes the
Cal i ph ate as an in s ti t uti on that “van is h ed like a smoke ,” leav ing more than 200 mill i on Mu s l ims with-
out a leade r:
St ran ge, inc red ibly stran ge, must app ear the posi ti on of this most powe r ful branch of the
I s l amic Fa i t h, with no outward and visible head to voi ce its sentim e n ts and con v i c ti ons, its un i t y
1 3 8

Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m
ir re t r i e vably shat te red, its rad i ance ob s cured, its law unde r m in ed, its in s ti t uti ons thrown in to
h opeless con fu si on. This in s ti t uti on that had chall e n ged the in al i e n able, div inely app oin ted
r i g h ts of the Imáms of the Faith of Mu ˙ amm ad, had, a fter the re voluti on of thir teen ce n t ur i e s ,
van is h ed like a smoke, an in s ti t uti on which had dealt such merciless blows to a Faith Whose
He rald was Himself a de s ce nd ant of the Imáms, the law ful succe s s ors of the Apostle of God.
Lest we misin te r pret these harsh de s c r i p ti ons, dire proph e sies, stern rebukes and war n in gs to be a ge n-
e ral rej ec ti on or dis paragement of Mu ˙ amm ad, the Qur’án, or Islám, the Gu ard i an re m inds us aga in of
the fund am e n tal ve r i ties of our Fa i t h :
As to Mu ˙ amm ad, the Apostle of God, let none among His followe rs who read these page s ,
t h ink for a moment that either Islám, or its Prophet, or His Book, or His app oin ted Succe s s ors ,
or any of His aut h e n tic teac h in gs, have be e n, or are to be in any way, or to howe ver slight a
deg ree, dis paraged. The lin eage of the Báb, the de s ce nd ant of the Imám Óu sayn; the dive rs and
s t r iking evide nces, in Nabíl’s Nar rative, of the at ti t ude of the He rald of our Faith towards the
Founde r, the Imáms, and the Book of Islám; the glow ing tributes pa id by Bahá’u’ lláh in the
Ki t á b -i-ˆqán to Mu ˙ amm ad and His law ful Succe s s ors, and par ti cul arly to the “p e e rless and
incomparabl e” Imám Óu sayn; the arg um e n ts adduced, forcibl y, fearl e s s l y, and publicly by ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá, in churches and synago g ues, to de mon s t rate the val idity of the Me s sage of the Arabi an
Proph e t; and last but not least the written te s timon i al of the Queen of Rum ania, wh o, born in
the Anglican faith and notw i t hs tand ing the close all i ance of her gove r nment with the Gre e k
O r t h o dox Churc h, the state re l i gi on of her adop ted coun t ry, has, largely as a re sult of the perusal
of these public dis courses of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, been promp ted to pro c l a im her reco g n i ti on of the
proph e tic func ti on of Mu ˙ amm ad —all pro c l a im, in no unce r ta in terms, the true at ti t ude of the
B ahá’í Faith towards its parent re l i gi on .10
Nabíl’s Narrative
Fin all y, Nabíl’s Nar rative, which Shoghi Effe ndi tran s l ated and ed i ted two years before he wrote T h e
Dis p e n sati on, offe rs “s t r iking evide nce s” “of the at ti t ude of the He rald of our Faith (the Báb) towards the
Founde r, the Imáms, and the Book of Islám .”11 T h is book also serves to in t ro duce us to the cult ure of
S h í‘ah Islám, as it exis ted in nin e te e n t h- ce n t ury Pe rsia, and helps us to unde rs tand the fe ro city of the
at tacks launc h ed aga inst the Bábi and Bahá’í Fa i t hs in the land of their birth. Shoghi Effe ndi makes sev-
e ral refe re nces to Nabíl’s Nar rative in The Dis p e n sati on.
Islám as an Independent Religion and the Imáms
as the Legitimate Successors of Mu˙ammad
In dis cu s sing the Ma s te r’s expl an ati on of an ancient Zoroa s t r i an proph ec y, Shoghi Effe ndi makes the
follow ing statement in The Dis p e n sati on:
From the te xt of this expl i cit and aut h or i tative in te r pre tati on of so ancient a proph ecy it is evi-
dent how nece s sary it is for eve ry fa i t h ful follower of the Faith to accept the div ine or i gin and
uph old the inde p e ndent status of the Mu ˙ amm ad an Dis p e n sati on. The val idity of the Imam ate
is, moreove r, impl i citly reco g n iz ed in these same pa s sage s— t h at div in e l y- app oin ted in s ti t uti on
of whose most dis tin g u is h ed member the Báb Himself was a lin eal de s ce nd ant, and which con-
tinued for a period of no less than two hundred and sixty years to be the chosen reci pient of the
g u id ance of the Almighty and the re p o si tory of one of the two most preci ous legacies of Islám .12
T h is pa s sage con f irms the div ine or i gin and inde p e ndent status of Islám and uph olds the val idity of
the Imam ate. The legi tim acy of the Imáms is also uph e ld in the pre v i ously quoted pa s sage from T h e
Prom is ed Day is Com e.
A m azin g l y, some write rs dis pute these state m e n ts pro c l a im ing the Imáms to be the legi tim ate succe s-
s ors of Mu ˙ amm ad. Instead, they claim the Fa i t h’s stance on the Imáms is part of a ge n e ral “S hí‘ah bi a s”
that exists because the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh came out of a Shí‘ah Islamic background. In The Dispensation
Shoghi Effe ndi clearly refutes such a view.
1 3 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A ce n t ral problem for Islám is that ‘A l i’s app ointment as Mu ˙ amm ad’s succe s s or was not put in to writ-
ing and is not con ta in ed in the Qur’án :
Can any pa s sage of the Qur’án, which in re s p ect to its legal co de, its adm in is t rative and de vo-
ti on al ord in ances marks already a notable ad vance over pre v i ous and more cor r up ted
Re ve l ati ons, be con s t r ued as pl acing up on an un a s sa il able basis the undoub ted aut h ority with
which Mu ˙ amm ad had, ve rb ally and on seve ral occa si ons, in ve s ted His succe s s or?
T h is statement by the Gu ard i an con f irms that ‘A lí was ve rb ally app oin ted by Mu ˙ amm ad on seve ral
o cca si ons, but as his tory re p or ts, a fter Mu ˙ amm ad’s pa s sing he was pa s s ed over in favor of Abú -B akr.14
‘A lí fin ally became the fourth Cal i ph a fter the death of ‘U t hm án, but Islám’s unity had by that time be e n
irre parably shat te red and the seeds sown for the div isi on in to Sunní and S hí‘ah sec ts. After ‘A lí ’s a s sa s-
sin ati on by His enemies, the leade rship of Islám was seiz ed by Mu‘á wí yah, the son of Mu ˙ amm ad’s pr in-
ci ple Meccan enemy, Abú -Su f yán. Thus began the period of the Um ayyad Cal i phs. A minority of Mu s l im s
who followed ‘A lí and his de s ce nde n ts, the Imáms, became known as the S hí‘ahs.
The S hí‘ah accoun ts of Mu ˙ amm ad’s last pil g r im age to Mecca de s c r ibe His app ointment of ‘A lí as His
succe s s or:
S hí‘ah trad i ti on has it that on the way back to Med ina, at urgent bidd ing received from God,
Mu ˙ amm ad made, all of a sudde n, a forced halt by the pool of K hum, a most incon ve n i e n t
pl ace; had a pulpit ra is ed with saddles, and from this announced ‘A lí as His succe s s or, re qu ir in g
the large body of Mu s l ims who we re with Him to pl ed ge their loyalty to ‘A lí .15
A nother epis o de concerns Mu ˙ amm ad’s deat h-bed re quest for writing mate r i als in order to leave a
w ill —a re quest which was refu s ed by ‘Um ar who re p or tedly sa id: “The Book of God is su ff i cient un to
u s.” We know this ac t u ally happ e n ed because ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá de s c r ibes the aw ful con s e que nces of these
words in the L aw ˙ -i-H iz ár Bay tí (Tablet of One Thou sand Ve rs e s). He re is Tah e r z ade h’s summ ary and
comm e n tary on this Tabl e t:
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá states that it was this ve ry statement which cau s ed the found ati on of the re l i gi on of
God in the Islamic Dis p e n sati on to be shat te red and the ignoble wors h i pp e rs of self and pa s si on
to rule over the righteous soul s. It became a deadly weap on with which the Imám ‘A lí him s e l f
was mar t y red, which cau s ed great div isi ons within the nati on of Islám, and which chan ged the
lov ing spirit of that nati on to that of war r i ors ar m ed with sword and weap on. As a re sult of this
s tatement, the head of Imám Óu say n, the most illu s t r i ous of the Imáms, was decapi tated on the
pl a in of Karbilá, the other holy Imáms we re in fl i c ted with great su ffe r in gs, impr is onment and
deat h, and the blood of countless inno cent souls was shed for we ll nigh twe l ve hundred years.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá further a ff irms that this statement ut te red by ‘Um ar was tran sfor m ed in to the hun-
dreds of bull e ts ce n t uries later which pi e rced the breast of the Báb in Tab ríz, that this state m e n t
became the chains which we re pl aced around the bl e s s ed neck of Bahá’u’ lláh, and brought ab out
the un told su ffe r in gs in fl i c ted up on Him in the course of His succe s sive exil e s.
Muc h, much more can be sa id on this topic. Howe ve r, as con f ir m ed by the ab ove quotati ons and man y
ot h e rs as we ll :
It is a fundamental belief of the Bahá’ís that Imám ‘A lí was the lawful successor of the Prophet of
Islám. After him his lineal male descendents known as the ‘holy Imáms’ led the Shí‘ah communi-
ty until the year 260 AH. Bahá’u’lláh regarded the Imáms as the legitimate successors of the
Prophet, acknowledged the value of their work in the elucidation of the Qur’án, confirmed many
of their sayings as recorded in the books of ‘A˙ádíth’ (traditions), quoted several of these in His
Writings, interpreted their words, extolled their station (especially that of Óusayn, the third Imám)
in glowing terms, and referred to them as ‘those unquenchable lights of divine guidance’ and ‘those
lamps of certitude’.
1 4 0

Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m
Misunderstandings that Have Crept into Islám
Sources of Misunderstandings in Islám
As with each re l i gi on, Islám has over time de par ted from the pr is tine purity of its or i gin al teac h in gs.
Re l i gi ous misunde rs tand in gs and erron eous in te r pre tati ons have crept in to the re l i gi on and are now
acce p ted as or t h o dox teac h in g. This pro cess is we ll de s c r ibed in the Bahá’í Scriptures, especi ally in the
talks of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, and con s ti t utes the main rea s on why a new Re ve l ati on is needed eve ry thou sand
years or so. The new Man i fe s tati on re s tates the ete r n al trut hs, brin gs new teac h in gs for the people of
H is Day, and clears away misunde rs tand in gs from pre v i ous re l i gi on s.
In the case of Islám, we know the te xt of the Qur’án is aut h e n tic, which is an ad vancement over the
older Fa i t hs:
We cannot be sure of the aut h e n ti ci t y, word for word, of any of the past Holy Scriptures exce p t
the Qur’án, as they we re either not written down dur ing the Proph e t’s life time or have be e n
c h an ged in the course of time and the or i gin als lo s t;
…the Qur’án wh i c h, apart from the sac red scriptures of the Bábi and Bahá’í Re ve l ati ons, con s ti-
t utes the only Book which can be regarded as an ab s olutely aut h e n ti cated Re p o si tory of the Word
of God.
T hus, the two main sources of re l i gi ous error in Islám are misin te r pre tati on of the Qur’án (the word s
are aut h e n tic but their mean ing is lost or mis con s t r ued), and Ó adít h (re p or ted say in gs of Mu ˙ amm ad
and the Imám s). It is in te re s ting to note how both of these sources of error are dealt with in the Bahá’í
Faith: Bahá’u’ lláh has forbidden oral trad i ti on as a basis for His re l i gi on and misin te r pre tati on of the
s c r i p t ures is pre ve n ted by the in s ti t uti on of the Cove n ant (see next sec ti on of this paper for a fuller dis-
cu s si on).
S e ve ral Islamic misunde rs tand in gs are expl i citly or impl i citly addre s s ed in The Dis p e n sati on:
1. The claim of fin ality of Re ve l ati on (Mu ˙ amm ad is the ‘s eal of the Proph e ts’ )
2. The Cr uci f ixi on of Chr is t
Finality of Revelation
The first is sue is addre s s ed in the follow ing pa s sage from The Dis p e n sati on:
I nde ed, the categor i cal rej ec ti on by the followe rs of the Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh of the claim to
f in ality which any re l i gi ous sys tem in au g urated by the Proph e ts of the past may ad vance is a s
c l ear and emph atic as their own refu sal to claim that same fin ality for the Re ve l ati on with wh i c h
they stand ide n ti f i ed. “To be l i e ve that all re ve l ati on is ended, that the por tals of Div ine merc y
are clo s ed, that from the days pr in gs of ete r n al hol iness no sun shall rise aga in, that the ocean
of eve rl a s ting bounty is fore ver still ed, and that out of the tabe r n acle of ancient glory the
Me s s e n ge rs of God have cea s ed to be made man i fe s t” must con s ti t ute in the eyes of eve ry fol-
lower of the Faith a grave, an in e xcu sable de par t ure from one of its most cheris h ed and fund a-
m e n tal pr inci pl e s.
The quotati on in italics is from the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. In that same book, Bahá’u’ lláh forcefully chall e n ge s
the Mu s l im view that since Mu ˙ amm ad is the “S eal of the Proph e ts ,” a later Re ve l ati on from God is not
p o s sibl e.
21 Not only does Bahá’u’ lláh a ff irm the Báb’s Re ve l ati on as the next val id re l i gi ous Dis p e n sati on
a fter Islám, but He also emph ati cally states that the pro cess of Div ine Re ve l ati on will con tinue indef i-
n i te l y.
Crucifixion of Christ
The cruci f ixi on of Chr ist is an imp or tant topic, since it de mon s t rates a clear example of a misin te r-
pre tati on of the Qur’ánic ve rs e s. To vir t u ally eve ry Chr is ti an de nom in ati on and sect, Chr is t’s cruci f ix-
i on re pre s e n ts the pivotal event of His min is t ry in which He died on the cross to atone for the sins of
all hum an i t y. And yet, the maj ority of Mu s l ims rej ec ts the his tor i cal fact of the Cr uci f ixi on of Chr is t:
1 4 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Quranic teac h ing is that Chr ist was not cruci f i ed nor kill ed by the Jews, notw i t hs tand in g
ce r ta in apparent circum s tances which pro duced that illu si on in the minds of some of his ene-
mies; that dis putati ons, doub ts, and conj ec t ures on such mat te rs are va in; and that he was take n
up to God.
The follow ing quotati ons are two diffe rent tran s l ati ons of the Qur’ánic ve rses which have led Mu s l im s
to this conc lu si on (4:157–158) :
T h at they sa id (in boa s t),
“We kill ed Chr ist Jesu s
The son of Mary,
The Apostle of God”;— But they kill ed him not ,
Nor cruci f i ed him,
But so it was made
To app ear to them,
A nd those who diffe r
T h e rein are full of doub ts ,
With no (ce r ta in) knowl ed ge ,
But only conj ec t ure to follow,
For of a sure t y
They kill ed him not;—
Nay, God ra is ed him up
U n to Him s e l f; and God
Is Exalted in Powe r, Wis e;— 23
… and for their say in g, ‘We slew the Me s si ah,
J e sus son of Mary, the Me s s e n ger of God’—
yet they did not slay him, neither cruci f i ed him,
only a likeness of that was shown to them.
Those who are at var i ance conce r n ing him sure l y
are in doubt regard ing him; they have no knowl ed ge
of him, except the follow ing of sur m is e ;
and they slew him not of a ce r ta in t y —
no inde ed; God ra is ed him up to Him; God is
A ll-m i g h t y, All-w is e.24
B ahá’u’ lláh refutes this in te r pre tati on in seve ral pl aces in His Wr i tin gs. In The Dis p e n sati on, a praye r
of Bahá’u’ lláh is quoted in which He says: “Aga in I was cruci f i ed for hav ing un veil ed to men’s eyes the
h idden gems of Thy glor i ous un i t y, for hav ing re veal ed to them the wondrous signs of Thy sove reign and
e ve rl a s ting powe r.”25 In this prayer He ide n tifies Himself with the su ffe r in gs exp e r i e nced by pa s t
Proph e ts and Holy Ones, inc lud ing Noah, Moses, Jesus, and the Imám Óu say n .
An even more poin ted con f ir m ati on of Chr is t’s cruci f ixi on is made in the follow ing quotati on from
G l ean in gs:
O Jews! If ye be in tent on cruci f y ing once aga in Jesus, the Spirit of God, put Me to deat h, for
He hath once more, in My pers on, been made man i fest un to you .26
1 4 2

Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m
Other Misunderstandings Not Addressed in The Dispensation
T h e re are num e rous other misunde rs tand in gs or errors that have ente red Islám, such as at ti t ude s
towards wom e n,
27 ce r ta in Óadíth that encourage the executi on of ap o s tate s ,
28 e tc. These and ot h e rs are
dealt with in other pl aces in the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on, but are not cove red in the The Dis p e n sati on of
B ahá’u’ lláh.
New Features of the Bahá’í Dispensation Not Found in Islám
The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh
We have already dis cu s s ed in Sec ti on III the lack of a written will app oin ting ‘A lí as Mu ˙ amm ad’s suc-
ce s s or, and the re sulting schism in to Sunní and S hí‘ah branc h e s—a schism which the Gu ard i an has char-
ac te r iz ed as “p e r m anent and cata s t roph i c .”
B ahá’u’ lláh’s Cove n ant, as do cum e n ted in the Ki t á b -i-‘A hd and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Will and Te s tam e n t, has
re s olutely re s ol ved the que s ti on of succe s si on, and has con fe r red the mantle of aut h or i t y, in te r pre tati on,
and in fall ibility on both ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi. This is unprecede n ted in the his tory of re l i-
gi on :
Nowh e re in the sac red scriptures of any of the world’s re l i gi ous sys tems, nor even in the writ-
in gs of the Inau g urator of the Bábí Dis p e n sati on, do we find any prov isi ons establ is h ing a
cove n ant or prov id ing for an adm in is t rative order that can compare in scope and aut h ority with
those that lie at the ve ry basis of the Bahá’í Dis p e n sati on. Has either Chr is ti anity or Islám, to
take as an in s tance two of the most widely diffu s ed and outs tand ing among the world’s reco g-
n iz ed re l i gi ons, an y t h ing to offer that can mea sure with, or be regarded as equ ivalent to, ei t h e r
the Book of Bahá’u’ lláh’s Cove n ant or to the Will and Te s tament of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá? Does the te xt
of either the Gospel or the Qur’án con fer su ff i cient aut h ority up on those leade rs and council s
t h at have claim ed the right and a s sum ed the func ti on of in te r pre ting the prov isi ons of their
sac red scriptures and of adm in is te r ing the a ffa irs of their re s p ec tive commun i ti e s? Could Pe te r,
the adm i t ted chief of the Apostles, or the Imám ‘A lí, the cou sin and legi tim ate succe s s or of the
Prophet, pro duce in supp ort of the pr im acy with which both had been in ve s ted written and
e xpl i cit a ff ir m ati ons from Chr ist and Mu ˙ amm ad that could have sil e nced those who ei t h e r
among their con te mp oraries or in a later age have re pud i ated their aut h ority and, by their ac ti on,
preci pi tated the schisms that persist un til the present day?30
B ahá’u’ lláh Himself te s tifies to the power of His Cove n ant in the follow ing word s: “So firm and
mighty is this Cove n ant that from the beginn ing of time un til the present day no re l i gi ous Dis p e n sati on
h ath pro duced its like.”31 One may wonder why this is true — why have past re l i gi ons, inc lud ing Islám, su f-
fe red cata s t rophic schisms for lack of a firm and do cum e n ted Cove n an t? One possible expl an ati on has
been offe red in Tah e r z ade h’s monum e n tal work, The Cove n ant of Bahá’u’ lláh:
In past Dis p e n sati ons the Proph e ts did not establ ish a firm and un e qu ivo cal Cove n ant with their
followe rs conce r n ing their succe s s ors, nor did they leave be h ind clear guid ance as to how to con-
duct the a ffa irs of the community a fter their de par t ure from this world. Con s e que n t l y, re l i gi on s
became div ided in to many sec ts re sulting in con fl i c ts and disunity among the followe rs. But the
non- e xis te nce of a clear Cove n ant and lack of guid ance should not be con s t r ued as a fa ilure on
the part of the Founde rs of re l i gi on s. To at t r ibute to the Man i fe s tati ons of God a lack of unde r-
s tand in g, of visi on and knowl ed ge, is tan tamount to at t r ibuting shor tcom in gs and imp e r fec-
ti ons to God Him s e l f …
A careful study of the his tory of re l i gi ons will enable us to real ize that the Man i fe s tati ons of
old, those emb o d im e n ts of God’s at t r ibutes, did not make an un e qu ivo cal written Cove n an t
with their followe rs because of the imm at urity of the people of the age, who could not have su s-
ta in ed the rigours, the te s ts and the strict dis ci pl ine which the ob s e rvance of such a Cove n an t
would in e v i tably have re qu ired .32
1 4 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Uniqueness of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
As stated in The Dis p e n sati on, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ful f ills a un ique func ti on for which there is no equ iva-
lent in past re l i gi ons, inc lud ing Islám :
One Who, not only in the Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh but in the entire field of re l i gi ous his to-
ry, ful f ills a un ique func ti on. Though mov ing in a sph e re of His own and hold ing a rank rad i-
cally diffe rent from that of the Aut h or and the Fore r unner of the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on, He, by
v ir t ue of the stati on ord a in ed for Him through the Cove n ant of Bahá’u’ lláh, forms to ge t h e r
with them wh at may be te r m ed the Three Central Fi g ures of a Faith that stands un approac h ed in
the world’s spir i t u al his tory.
A glimpse of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s un iqueness is offe red by the Gu ard i an’s summ ary de s c r i p ti on of His man y
qu al i ties and ti t l e s:
He is, and should for all time be regarded, first and fore most, as the Center and Pivot of
B ahá’u’ lláh’s peerless and all- e n fold ing Cove n ant, His most exalted hand iwork, the sta inl e s s
Mir ror of His light, the perfect Exe mpl ar of His teac h in gs, the un e r r ing Inte r pre ter of His
Word, the emb o d iment of eve ry Bahá’í ideal, the incar n ati on of eve ry Bahá’í vir t ue, the Mo s t
Mighty Branch spr ung from the Ancient Ro ot, the Limb of the Law of God, the Being “round
W h om all names re vol ve ,” the Ma in s pr ing of the Oneness of Hum an i t y, the Ensign of the Mo s t
Great Peace, the Mo on of the Central Orb of this most holy Dis p e n sati on - styles and titles that
are impl i cit and find their truest, their highest and fa irest expre s si on in the magic name ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá. He is, ab ove and be yond these app e ll ati ons, the “Mys te ry of God”—an expre s si on by wh i c h
B ahá’u’ lláh Himself has chosen to de si g n ate Him, and wh i c h, wh ile it does not by any mean s
j u s tify us to a s sign to Him the stati on of Prophethood, ind i cates how in the pers on of ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá the incompatible charac te r is tics of a hum an nat ure and sup e rhum an knowl ed ge and per-
fec ti on have been bl e nded and are compl e tely har mon iz ed .34
It is in te re s ting to note that Shoghi Effe ndi does not claim a sim il ar un iqueness of stati on for the
Gu ard i an s h i p. In fact, in his dis cu s si on of the Gu ard i anship in The Dis p e n sati on he menti ons “the hered-
i tary pr inci ple and the law of pr imo ge n i t ure as hav ing been uph e ld by the Proph e ts of the pa s t.”35 From
t h is, one could in fer a cor re s p onde nce in func ti on be tween the Imáms of Islám, and the Gu ard i an. The
I m áms, like the succe s si on of Gu ard i ans envisi on ed in The Will and Te s tam e n t, pa s s ed the mantle of
aut h ority and succe s si on from father to son. Both the Gu ard i an and the Imáms prov ided in te r pre tati on
of the scriptures and spir i t u al leade rship and guid ance.36
Administrative Order
The Bahá’í Adm in is t rative Orde r, the prov isi ons of which have been laid down in the Wr i tin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe nd i, is ab s olutely un ique in re l i gi ous his tory:
The Bahá’í Common wealth of the fut ure, of which this vast Adm in is t rative Order is the sol e
fram e work, is, both in theory and prac ti ce, not only un ique in the entire his tory of pol i ti cal
in s ti t uti ons, but can find no parallel in the ann als of any of the world’s reco g n iz ed re l i gi ous sys-
te m s.
In rough out l ine, the Bahá’í Adm in is t rative Order con ta ins the follow ing elements:
1. A w r i t ten Cove n an t, which specifies succe s si on. Bahá’u’ lláh was succe eded by His eldest Son,
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the Mys te ry of God, Whom He app oin ted in His Book of the Cove n ant (Ki t á b -i-‘A hd).
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ful f ills a un ique role in re l i gi ous his tory as app oin ted succe s s or, in fall ible in te r pre te r,
C e n ter of the Cove n ant, and perfect exe mpl ar of Bahá’u’ lláh’s teac h in gs. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was succe eded by
H is grand s on, Shoghi Effe nd i, wh om He app oin ted in His Will and Te s tam e n t to be the Gu ard i an, ve s t-
ed with the roles of head of the Faith and in fall ible in te r pre te r.
2. A series of e l ec ted bodies to adm in is ter the Faith (L o cal and Nati on al Spir i t u al Assemblies, and the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce). The lo cal be l i e ve rs elect the Local Assembly annu ally through plurality vote ;
1 4 4

Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m
the Nati on al Assembly is elec ted annu ally through a Nati on al Con ve n ti on; the Unive rsal House of
Ju s ti ce is elec ted eve ry five years by a plurality vote of the membe rs of all Nati on al Assembl i e s. In 1998
the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce in t ro duced Regi on al Bahá’í Councils that op e rate be tween the lo cal and
n ati on al levels in those countries wh e re the compl e xity of is sues facing Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembl i e s
re qu ires a new mea sure of dece n t ral iz ati on .
3. A series of app oin ted posi ti on s inc lud ing Hands of the Cause, Con tin e n tal Coun s e lors, Auxil i ary
B oard Me mbe rs and their a s sis tan ts. These ind iv idu als in s pire and educate the be l i e ve rs, and fo cus on
ac tiv i ties to propagate and protect the Faith. They work hand in hand with the elec ted in s ti t uti ons, but
h ave no real power of their ow n .
4. A series of Adm in is t rative pr inci ples and guide l in e s which are enshr in ed in the Wr i tin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, and Shoghi Effe ndi. These pr inci ples cover such topics as con sultati on, elec-
ti ons, community life, the spirit of Bahá’í adm in is t rati on, guid ance on the appl i cati on of Bahá’í Law, and
the qu al i f i cati ons for serv i ce.
5. E xpl i cit in fall ibil i t y con ve yed up on the Center of the Cove n ant (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá), the Gu ard i an, and
the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce.
6. E xpl i cit and exc lu sive right of in te r pre tati on con ve yed to both the Center of the Cove n ant and the
Gu ard i an .
7. Ability for the House of Ju s ti ce to l egis l ate in areas not cove red by Bahá’u’ lláh’s Wr i tin gs.
8. Sph e re of legis l ati on of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce def in ed by the Gu ard i an s h i p.
9. A s p eci f i ed prov isi on for the excommun i cati on of those who at tack the head of the Faith and
at te mpt to unde r m ine the fir mly establ is h ed Cove n an t. These ind iv idu als are call ed “C ove n an t
Breake rs.”
We have seen in the pre v i ous sec ti ons of this paper that Islám lac ked a written Cove n ant re sulting in
a split in to Sunní and S hí‘ah sec ts. The Qur’án, wh ile prov id ing laws and ord in ances and the basis for a
l egal co de, is silent on the que s ti on of how the re l i gi on is to be main ta in ed and adm in is te red a fter the
Proph e t’s pa s sin g. The S hí‘ah and Sunní sec ts to ok diffe rent pat hs as expl a in ed by this pa s sage from
Mo ojan Mom e n’s exce llent book, An Intro duc ti on to Shi’i Islam:
The Sunni concept of leade rship of the Mu s l im community a fter the death of the Prophet, the
Cal i ph ate, is essenti ally a te mp oral leade rs h i p. The Cal i ph is the first among equ als, elec ted ide-
ally by con s e n sus, alt h ough later the hered i tary pr inci ple became the norm. To ot h e rs, the the-
olo gi ans and exp e r ts in jur is pr ude nce, is given the task of exp ound ing up on re l i gi ous que s ti on s.
To the Shi’is, howe ve r, the succe s si on to the Prophet is a mat ter of the de si g n ati on by the Proph e t
of an ind iv idu al (‘A lí) as Imam. Each Imam de si g n ates his succe s s or dur ing his life tim e. The
aut h ority of the Imam de r ives from his de si g n ati on by his predece s s or to a spir i t u al stati on and
is inde p e ndent of his te mp oral stand in g, i.e. it makes no diffe re nce to the Imam’s stati on
whether he is ac knowl ed ged by the ge n e rality of Mu s l ims or not, wh e reas this qu i te clearly do e s
not apply to a Sunni Cal i ph whose stati on is totally de p e ndent on such ac knowl ed ge m e n t.
The Sunn is and Shi’is are basi cally in ag reement with each other over the nat ure and func ti on
of prophethood. The two main func ti ons of the Prophet are to re veal God’s law to men and to
g u ide men towards God. Of these two func ti ons, the Sunn is be l i e ve that both ended with the
death of Muh amm ad, wh ile the Shi’is be l i e ve that wh e reas legis l ati on ended, the func ti on of
g u id ing men and pre s e rv ing and expl a in ing the Div ine Law con tinued through the line of
I m am s.38
In add i ti on to the Cal i phs and the Imáms, both Islamic branches de ve lop ed an add i ti on al body of lit-
e rat ure call ed Ó adít h, which re present the re p or ted say in gs of Mu ˙ amm ad (Sunnís), and which for the
S h í‘ahs also inc lude the re p or ted say in gs of the Imám s. Each branch also de ve lop ed its own form of
I s l amic jur is pr ude nce as we ll their own sys tem of clergy and theolo gi cal tra in in g.
1 4 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
It is imp or tant to real ize that no mat ter how much these elements have con t r ibuted to the richness of
I s l amic his tory, cult ure, and re l i gi ous thought, ab s olutely none of it can be traced back to the expl i ci t
te xt of the Qur’án, a book that is un ive rsally acce p ted as the Word of God by all Mu s l im s. Thus, ‘A lí ’s
app ointment as Mu ˙ amm ad’s succe s s or is not to be found in the Qur’án, neither is any te xt that might
form the justi f i cati on for the Cal i ph ate. There is disag reement among Mu s l ims as to which Ó adít h are
aut h e n tic and which are not (plus the Shí‘ahs have Ó adít h for the Imáms which of course are not acce p t-
ed by the Sunnís). The var i ous schools of Islamic jur is pr ude nce and the var i ous re l i gi ous clergy have all
been de ve lop ed in re s p onse to the needs of the re l i gi on to deal with que s ti ons and si t u ati ons not found
in the Qur’án, to ensure tra in ing and educati on of the people, and to prov ide for the on going adm in is-
t rati on of the re l i gi on. An almost ide n ti cal si t u ati on exis ts in Chr is ti an i t y: the Bible con ta ins almost no
in for m ati on ab out how to adm in is ter the re l i gi on a fter the de par t ure of Chr is t.
N either Chr is ti anity nor Islám con ta ins a mec h an ism for on going aut h or i tative legis l ati on, which can
be traced back to the Holy Book, such as exis ts with the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce.
Goals of the Bahá’í Dispensation in Relation to Islám
B ahá’u’ lláh says: “T h is is the chan geless Faith of God, ete r n al in the past, ete r n al in the fut ure. Let
h im that seeke t h, at ta in it.”39 As a bef i t ting close to this pap e r, the follow ing quotati on from T h e
Dis p e n sati on seeks to establ ish the proper re l ati onship be tween Islám and the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on :
Nor does the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on, claim ing as it does to be the culm in ati on of a proph e tic cyc l e
and the ful f illment of the prom ise of all ages, at te mpt, under any circum s tances, to in val id ate
those first and eve rl a s ting pr inci ples that an im ate and unde rlie the re l i gi ons that have preceded
i t. The God-given aut h or i t y, ve s ted in each one of them, it adm i ts and establ ishes as its fir m e s t
and ultim ate basis. It regards them in no other light except as diffe rent stages in the ete r n al his-
tory and con s tant evoluti on of one re l i gi on, Div ine and ind iv isible, of which it itself forms but
an in teg ral par t. It neither seeks to ob s cure their Div ine or i gin, nor to dwarf the adm i t ted mag-
n i t ude of their colo s sal ac h i e ve m e n ts. It can coun te n ance no at te mpt that seeks to dis tort their
feat ures or to stultify the trut hs which they in s till. Its teac h in gs do not de v i ate a hairb readt h
from the ve r i ties they enshr ine, nor does the weight of its message de t ract one jot or one ti t t l e
from the in flue nce they exert or the loyalty they in s pire. Far from a im ing at the ove r t hrow of
the spir i t u al found ati on of the world’s re l i gi ous sys tems, its avowed, its un alte rable purpose is to
w iden their basis, to re s tate their fund am e n tals, to reconcile their a ims, to rein v i gorate their life ,
to de mon s t rate their oneness, to re s tore the pr is tine purity of their teac h in gs, to co ord in ate their
func ti ons and to a s sist in the real iz ati on of their highest a s pirati on s. These div in e l y-re veal ed
re l i gi ons, as a close ob s e rver has graph i cally expre s s ed it, “are do om ed not to die, but to be
reb or n … .”40
The Bahá’í Re ve l ati on seeks not to unde r m ine Islám (or any other re l i gi on), but to re s tore and rein-
v i gorate it. To be true to the trut hs re veal ed by Bahá’u’ lláh, we must view Islám and the Bahá’í Faith a s
e s s e n ti ally diffe rent stages of one and the same re l i gi on .
The Dis p e n sati on t hus protec ts the Bahá’í community from slipping in to the “I s lám-b a s h in g” so com-
mon in the West to d ay. The Dis p e n sati on re qu ires that Bahá’ís, de s pi te hav ing su ffe red enor mously at the
h ands of Mu s l ims, give due and just regard to Islám as a Div in e l y-re veal ed re l i gi on, re ve re the Proph e t
Mu ˙ amm ad and His Succe s s ors the Imáms, accept the Qur’án as the Word of God, and ac knowl ed ge the
m any valu able con t r ibuti ons which Islám has made to the ad vancement of civ il iz ati on. Fin all y, this all-
imp or tant letter of the Gu ard i an holds out the prom ise of the ultim ate rege n e rati on of Islám – a rege n-
e rati on that will be real iz ed dur ing the Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh .
Note s
1) This paper was or i gin ally written to ful f ill the course re qu ire m e n ts for the Wilm e t te Insti t ute dis tance-l ear n ing cours e
on The Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh. It was pre s e n ted at the ‘I r f án Colloqu i um in October 2000. The aut h or is indeb ted
to Dr. Geoff Marks, whose comm e n ts and su g ge s ti ons for improvement have been incor p orated in to this ve rsi on of the
pap e r.
1 4 6

2) Shoghi Effe nd i, 1969. The Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh. parag raph 5. This letter is in The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh,
(WOB) (Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t), pp. 95 –157.
3) Charles Le Gai Eaton, 1985. I s l am and the Destiny of Man. New York: State Unive rsity of New York Press, The Islam i c
Te xts Soci e t y. p.11. Le Gai Eaton is a We s tern Mu s l im .
4) Karen Armstron g, 1992. Muh amm ad, A Bi o g raphy of the Proph e t, (San Francis co: Har p e r), pp. 49 –50.
5) Shoghi Effe ndi. Direc tives From the Gu ard i an, (New Delhi: Bahá’i Publ is h ing Tr u s t), p. 59.
6) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 5, (WOB, p. 98).
7) Shoghi Effe nd i, 1974. God Passes By, (Wilm e t te: Bahá’i Publ is h ing Tr u s t), p. 411. Also, see other refe re nces to this
proph ecy on pages 302 and 315.
8) Ibid, pp. 33–34.
9) Shoghi Effe nd i, 1967. The Prom is ed Day is Com e, (Wilm e t te: Bahá’i Publ is h ing Tr u s t), p. 100.
10) Ibid., p. 112–113.
11.) Ibid., p. 112 .
12) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 14, (WOB, p. 102).
13) Ibid, parag raph 96, (WOB, p. 145).
14) A dis cu s si on of Mu ˙ amm ad’s pa s sing and the succe s si on can be found in Mu ˙ amm ad and the Course of Islám, by H.M.
B al y uzi, chap ter 19, and in An Intro duc ti on to Shi’i Islam, by Mo ojan Mom e n, chap ter 2.
15) H.M. Bal y uzi, 1976. Mu ˙ amm ad and the Course of Islám, (O xford: George Ron ald Pre s s), pp. 149 –150. Some Sunní
s ources also de s c r ibe this eve n t. See, for example, An Intro duc ti on to Shi’i Islam, p. 15, which quotes an account from
Ibn Óanb al, a Sunní coll ec ti on of Ó adít h.
16) Ad ib Tah e r z ade h, 1992. The Cove n ant of Bahá’u’ lláh, (O xford: George Ron ald Pre s s), pp. 157–158.
17) Ibid., p. 157.
18) Shoghi Effe ndi. Buddha, Krisna, Zoroa s te r, compil ati on from the lette rs and writin gs of Shoghi Effe nd i, p. 21. The
aut h e n ti city of the Qur’án is not expl i citly de s c r ibed in The Dis p e n sati on, but is som e wh at impl i ed in parag raph 96: “Can
any pa s sage of the Qur’án, wh i c h … m arks already a notable ad vance over pre v i ous and more cor r up ted Re ve l ati on s … .”
19) Shoghi Effe nd i, 1969. The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, (Wilm e t te: Bahá’i Publ is h ing Tr u s t), p. 41.
20) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 44, (WOB, pp. 115 –116).
21) See for example, the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, pages 40, 162–163, 166, 169, 170, 174, 179, 213, 233, and 244.
22) A. Yu suf Ali (t ran s l ator), 1983. The Holy Qur’án, Te xt, Tran s l ati on and Comm e n tary, (Bre n twood: Amana Cor p), note
663, p. 230.
23) Ibid., p. 230.
24) A.J. Arbe r ry (t ran s l ator), 1955. The Koran Inte r pre ted, (New York: Mac m ill an), p. 123.
25) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 52, (WOB, p. 118).
26) Bahá’u’ lláh, 1976. G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, (Wilm e t te: Bahá’i Publ is h ing Tr u s t), p. 101.
27) For example, the re l egati on of women to the back of the mo sque occur red over tim e. Women wors h i pp ed in the mo sque
side by side with men in Mu ˙ amm ad’s day. The use of a chador or “head to to e” shroud for women is not mand ated by
Mu ˙ amm ad or the Qur’án, other than ge n e ral exhor tati ons for mo desty in dre s s.
28) Bukh ari 88:1 state s: “W h o e ver chan ges his re l i gi on, kill him .” Bukh ari 87:6 also states that the life of a Mu s l im may be
taken in three cases, one of which is that “he forsakes his re l i gi on and separates himself from his commun i t y.” Bukh ar i
is one of the we ll-known compil ati ons of Islamic Ó ad i t h. These trad i ti ons are not acce p ted by all Mu s l ims, especi all y
the more libe ral. See, for example, The Re l i gi on of Islam, Maul ana Muh amm ad Ali, S. Chand & Compan y, New Delh i,
pp. 591–599, for a dis cu s si on of Ap o s ta s y. The Qur’án state s: “Let there be no compul si on in re l i gi on” (2:256).
29) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 96, (WOB, p. 146).
30) Ibid., (WOB, p. 145).
31) Ibid., parag raph 98, (WOB, p. 146).
32) The Cove n ant of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 158 –159.
33) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 69, (WOB, pp. 131–132).
34) Ibid., parag raph 75, (WOB, p. 134).
35) Ibid., parag raph 101, (WOB, p. 147).
36) The line of Gu ard i ans ended with Shoghi Effe nd i, since he had no heirs and none of his male re l atives met the qu al i f i-
cati ons in ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Will and Te s tam e nt. This si t u ati on created a theolo gi cal test for the Bahá’í commun i t y, since a
l ine of Gu ard i ans is clearly in envisi on ed the Will and Te s tam e n t, which also de s c r ibes the Gu ard i an as the perman e n t
h ead of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, which had not yet come in to exis te nce at the time of Shoghi Effe nd i’s pa s sing in
1957. Much has been written on this topic elsewh e re, and so a more de ta il ed treatment is be yond the scope of this pap e r.
Br i efl y, the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce was first elec ted in 1963, at the succe s sful conc lu si on of Shoghi Effe nd i’s te n-year
g lob al campaign to expand the Bahá’í Faith to all par ts of the world. The House of Ju s ti ce, when elec ted, re s ol ved the
t h eolo gi cal dil e mma by legis l ating that fut ure Gu ard i ans we re not possibl e. The Supreme Insti t uti on did expl a in that the
in s ti t uti on of the Gu ard i anship con tinues to op e rate through the vast and aut h or i tative body of writin gs left by Shoghi
Effe ndi. Alt h ough there was only one Gu ard i an in the pers on of Shoghi Effe nd i, the “hered i tary pr inci pl e” menti on ed in
The Dis p e n sati on is ful f ill ed in the sense that Bahá’u’ lláh app oin ted His son, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, who in turn app oin ted His
g rand s on, Shoghi Effe nd i .
1 4 7
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Is l á m

Lights of ‘Irf á n
37) Ibid., parag raph 118, (WOB, p. 152).
38) Mo ojan Mom e n, 1985. An Intro duc ti on to Shi’i Islám, (O xford: George Ron ald Pre s s), p. 147.
39) G l ean in gs, p. 136.
40) Dis p e n sati on, parag raph 42, (WOB, p. 114).
1 4 8

Writings of the Báb
ELUCI DATION S
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
by Muhammad Afnan
T
he use of the terms “Poin t” and “L e t te r” in the Wr i tin gs of the Báb traces its or i gin to a hadít h
at t r ibuted to Imám ‘A lí, in which he says, “A ll that is in the Torah, the Evan gel and the Psalms is
in the Qur’án; and all that is in the Qur’án is in the op e n ing súrih; and all that is in the op e n in g
s ú r ih is in [the phra s e] Bis m i’ lláh [Bis m i’ ll ah ir-Rahm an ir-Rah im]; and all that is in Bis m i’ lláh is in [t h e
l e t te r] Bá’; and all that is in Bá’ is in its poin t” (prov isi on al tran s l ati on).
The Báb uses this hadít h, which is often quoted in the Sac red Wr i tin gs of the Fa i t h, to elucid ate two
novel themes. The first is that the Point of Tr uth is the source of all exis te nce in both the spir i t u al and
the mate r i al world. In other words, in the mate r i al or ph ysi cal world, all lines and lette rs begin from a
single dot or poin t. All shapes and pat terns in exis te nce are for m ed through var i ati ons of lines, wh i c h
in turn begin with the poin t. Sim il arl y, hum an speec h, which is wh at dis tin g u ishes hum ankind from
other creat ures, is based on words and lette rs, which also have their or i gin in a single poin t. So, to o, in
the spir i t u al world, the source of all exis te nce is compared to a Point and all the spir i t u al trut hs that are
l atent within the hum an reality eman ate from that single and uncon s t ra in ed Poin t.
The second theme expl a in ed by the Báb is the spir i t u al mean ing and si g n i f i cance of lette rs. Lette rs—
and of course, word s— which are de r ived from and sub ord in ate to the point, can be sa id to have moved
from the stati on of ab s t rac ti on pecul i ar to the point to the stati on of con tin ge nce and var i ati on that
be lon gs to creati on. Each has its own form and charac te r is tics, dis tinct from ot h e rs. Since each letter is
in itself inde p e ndent and possesses dis tinc tive feat ures, wh i c h, in combin ati on with other lette rs, for m
words with speci al and dis tinct mean in gs, it can be sa id that each letter has its own spirit and charac te r.
L e t te rs are thus sim il ar in a sense to hum an bein gs, who have ind iv idu al souls and possess dis tinc tive
p owe rs of unde rs tand in g.
Pe rh aps on this basis, hum an ind iv idu als are call ed “L e t te rs” in the Bayán. For in s tance, be l i e ve rs and
de n i e rs are dis tin g u is h ed from one another as “Subl ime Lette rs” and “Other than Subl ime Lette rs.”
1 T h e
B ayán seems to ind i cate that this dis tinc ti on will con tinue un til the app earance of Him Whom God shall
m ake man i fest, but there is no menti on of wh at will take pl ace a fter that. Prob ably for this rea s on the
Báb re veal ed nin e teen Tabl e ts addre s s ed to Himself and the ei g h teen Lette rs of the Liv ing and ador n ed
them with the add i ti on of another Tablet addre s s ed to Him Whom God shall make man i fe s t. It seems
t h at in this way, the Báb has envisi on ed the re t urn of the Lette rs of the Liv ing at the time of the re ve-
l ati on of Him Whom God shall make man i fest and ind i cated Himself and these Lette rs as the first to
be l i e ve in the Prom is ed One of the Bayán when He app ears.
Fac sim iles of these Tabl e ts are publ is h ed at the beginn ing of The Daw n-Breake rs at the direc ti on of
Shoghi Effe ndi. Howe ve r, it must be noted that the nin e teenth Tablet, de si g n ated “Maj m a‘u’ l-Hayákil”
( U n i on of Te mples (?) is addre s s ed to the Báb Him s e l f, and not to the nin e teenth Letter of the Liv in g,
since there are only ei g h teen Lette rs of the Liv in g. Howe ve r, it is cor rect to con sider it to be addre s s ed
to the nin e teenth Letter of the first Váh id (in the abjad sys te m, “váh id” is equ ivalent to the number 19).
T h is is a point that should be menti on ed in fut ure ed i ti ons of The Daw n-Breake rs.
B a s ed on the hadíth quoted in the beginn in g, all spir i t u al trut hs are con ta in ed within the phra s e
“Bis m i’ lláh ir-Rahm án ir-Rah ím” and within the letter “Bá’” and within the point of the lette r. In Arabi c ,
t h e re are nin e teen lette rs in the a fore m e n ti on ed phrase and the word “Váh id” is also equ ivalent to the
1 4 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
number 19 in the abjad sys tem. Con side r ing the imp or tance of the number 19 in the Qur’án,
2 the Báb
has created an order that may be compared to a py ram id, at whose pinn acle is the Point of the Bayán,
be low him the ei g h teen Lette rs of the Liv in g, and be low each Letter another ei g h teen Lette rs, and so on
ad in f in i t um .
3 The exte n si on of this pat tern to the second powe r, i.e., 19 times 19 which equ als 361, is
s p eci f i ed in the Bayán and de si g n ated as “Kull-i-S h ay’” (A ll Thin gs), which is the num e r i cal equ ivalent of
361. Howe ve r, the Báb expl a ins that Kull-i-S h ay’ is in fact in f in i te, and that it inc ludes an in f in i te num-
ber of váh id s.
In conc lu si on, it should be menti on ed that alt h ough the Báb’s sys te m — because it deals with lette rs and
word s— m ay be con fu s ed with the be l i efs of the “Hurú fí” and Nu q taví” sec ts, this is by no means the
ca s e. These sec ts at t r ibuted magi cal qu al i ties and powe rs to the lette rs of the alph abet and a s s o ci ated let-
te rs to sup e r n at ural worlds, which they be l i e ved in flue nced the hum an world. It is evident from all the
Wr i tin gs of the Báb, howe ve r, that his de s c r i p ti on of poin ts and lette rs bears no allu si on to such occult
s ci e nce s. The pr inci ples of the sys tem created by the Báb are simply refl ec ti ons of an order inh e rent and
m an i fest in all deg rees and cond i ti ons of the world of exis te nce, and they su g gest that the found ati on s
and gove r n ing laws of creati on are one, whether in the ab s t ract world of poin ts, lines and lette rs, or in
the highest stati ons of the realms of the spir i t.
Note s
1) Pe rsi an Bayán, II. 4.
2) Islamic schol ars have dis cove red, using compute rs, that the comp o si ti on of the Qur’án is based on the number 19 and
con sider this as one of the miracles of the Qur’án. The fact that there are nin e teen lette rs in the phrase “Bis m i’ lláh ir-
Rahm án ir-Rah ím” also con f irms the aut h e n ti city of the ab ove-m e n ti on ed hadít h .
3) Pe rsi an Bayán, VII. 8.
4) Pe rsi an Bayán, khutbih
1 5 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 5 1