THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

21 February 2021

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Despite numerous obstacles arising from the current global health crisis and its inevitable impact on all operational matters, impressive progress has already been made on the construction of the Shrine of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá since it began in earnest at the start of 2020. The preparation of the site is complete, and the extensive foundations required have now been laid. Permits for construction have been obtained, and the portal walls and folding walls surrounding the main edifice of the Shrine are now under construction. The design detail for the large intricate formwork for the marble-cladded trellis, consisting of eighty pieces, is close to being finalized. Before long, the Shrine itself and its associated structures will begin to take form. The friends will continue to be kept informed of the progress of each stage through the periodic reports of the Bahá’í World News Service which have included photographs and videos.

Soon after the announcement of the intention to build the Shrine, the Universal House of Justice informed you in May 2019 of the inauguration of a Fund dedicated to this sacred objective and expressed the hope that this endeavour would be characterized by universal participation; it has been delighted by the response of the believers as they have seized the unique chance to contribute to the project. The House of Justice has now asked that we share with you the following information.

Certain important milestones—including the preparation of detailed drawings, the selection and procurement of materials, the signing of major contracts, and preliminary construction work—have been reached, making it possible now to estimate with confidence that this endeavour will require around seventy-five million dollars. Believers have for years donated sums for the eventual construction of the Shrine of their beloved Master. These funds have been substantially augmented by the generous contributions of believers which began to flow immediately following the announcement about the Shrine at Riḍván 2019. To these amounts, the House of Justice has itself added a significant contribution on behalf of the Bahá’ís in Iran. Thus, altogether, nearly half of the estimated cost of the project has been raised so far. As the construction work proceeds, the friends will continue to have the opportunity to contribute to this monumental undertaking in the course of the expected two years that remain before its completion.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]