Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Sixteen

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Cover design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
172 B.E. 2015 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-25-1
Copyright © 2015, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My
words, that ye may unravel its secrets, and
discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid
in its depths. Take heed that ye do not
vacillate in your determination to embrace
the truth of this Cause—a Cause through
which the potentialities of the might of God
have been revealed, and His sovereignty
established. With faces beaming with joy,
hasten ye unto Him. This is the changeless
Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in
the future.
— Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 118-119

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................... 3
The Ten Plagues of the Exodus in Light of the Bahá’í Writings
JoAnn M. Borovicka ....................................................................... 9
Freud’s Transference and the Four States of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang A. Klebel ...................................................................... 27
Procrustes’ Bed: The Insufficiency of Secular Humanism
Ian Kluge ..................................................................................... 49
Women and Wisdom in Scripture
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani ............................................................... 93
On Existence and Qualities of the Human Soul
Farjam Majd ............................................................................... 123
Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related to Law in Bahá’í Scripture
Moojan Momen .......................................................................... 175
Shared Prosperity: How Does That Work?
Wendi Momen ............................................................................ 199
A Hymn to Love (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí)
Julio Savi ................................................................................... 223
“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”: An early fruit of the Supreme Pen
Julio Savi ................................................................................... 273
Elucidation
Intellectual Life and the Future of Bahá’í Studies
Universal House of Justice .......................................................... 341
In Memoriam
Kamran Ekbal (1946-2014) ............................................................ 347
Appendices
Bibliography of the Writings and Abbreviations used in this book ... 351
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-15 ......................................... 352
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia ............................................... 364
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications ................................................ 365
Vision and Objectives ................................................................... 366

Preface
Bahá’ís are advised and urged by the founders of the Bahá’í
Faith to engage in deeper study of the Bahá’í Writings,
reflecting on them and try to unravel the many inner meanings
and the important knowledge hidden in them. Baha’u’llah likens
the words of God to an ocean that has precious pearls in its
depth. He encourages the believers to swim and even immerse
in that ocean in search of those pearls of spiritual realities. Such
exercises, among many advantages, deepen our knowledge,
consolidate our faith and make us better prepared for
propagation and teaching of Bahá’í Faith. ‘Irfán Colloquium
and its publications aim at promoting deeper and systematic
study of the scriptures of the world's religions from the Bahá'í
perspective, the verities and fundamental principles of the
belief system of the Bahá'í Faith, as well as the interface
between the Bahá’í Faith and the various religious traditions
and schools of thought. In volumes of Lights of ‘Irfán
collections of research papers either presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia or submitted to the `Irfán Colloquium are published.
In this volume, Nathan Soderblom and the Bahá’í Faith is the
historical background of how Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths were
publicly introduced in Sweden for the first time by Nathan
Söderblom in 1907. He was the first Professor of Comparative
Religion in Sweden and also the Archbishop and the prime
representative of the Christian Church in Sweden. He published
a text-book in four volumes on religious texts in Swedish
language in 1907, in which he provided a brief and objective
description of the Bábí and Bahá'í Faiths.
The Ten Plagues of Exodus in Light of the Bahá’í Writings
mentioned in the Biblical Book of Exodus and known as “the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
narrative of the plagues” has historically been interpreted in
two ways. The traditional understanding and as interpreted by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá who offers another understanding of this
narrative by explaining only the nature of the first plague. His
explanation opens a new perspective on the entire plague
narrative. This paper examines the remaining nine plagues
through an exploration of how these terms (frogs, lice, flies,
diseased livestock, boils, thunder and hail, locusts, darkness,
and first born) are used in other contexts in the Bahá’í Writings
in order to get a sense of the symbolism that may be contained
in these Biblical verses. The paper will close with an
examination
of
‘Abdu'l-Bahá’s
interpretation
of
the
culmination of the Exodus story: the crossing of the Red Sea.
Freud’s Transference with the Four States of Bahá’u’lláh is
an attempt to use a statement of Bahá’u’lláh in the Seven
Valleys, “Inwardness and Outwardness, Firstness and Lastness
are … true of thyself,” that gives us a psychological
understanding of what is “true of thyself,” as the “Mother
Verse,” and further develops this idea. It argues that the
transference concept seems to be correlated with the above
statement of Bahá’u’lláh and gives us a psychological
understanding of what is “true of thyself.”
Procrustes’ Bed: The insufficiency of secular humanism deals
with a very important issue currently debated in intellectual
circles. It aims to prove secular humanism’s inability to
accommodate the empirically established universal presence of
religion in human nature that undermines secular humanism’s
claim to be a viable world-view for mankind. It shows secular
humanism’s failure to live up to its self-proclaimed empiricism,
unleashes a cascade of consequences that undermines its
internal coherence, diminishes its value as a rational argument
and leaves the arguments for theism untouched.
Women and Wisdom in Scripture discusses the treatment of
women in religion and the role played by language in degrading
women’s status, the direct and indirect influence of the Bábí

Preface
and Bahá’í Faiths in raising awareness about the plight of
women and transforming attitudes towards them across the
globe, the role of wisdom in scripture and how it has been
applied in regard to the question of gender equality, the need
for vigilance to prevent past shortcomings from affecting our
way of thinking and doing things.
On Existence and Qualities of The Human of Soul deals with
the question of the existence, nature, and necessity of a human
soul. It takes a two-phase approach. It first establishes a
rational foundation and then applies the principles established
to specific questions such as “Is there a human soul?” In the
first phase, science and rationality are compared and their
relationship established. In the second phase, a part scientific
and part rational methodology is employed to specifically
answer the direct and indirect questions about the existence of
the human soul. It concludes that the mere fact of
comprehension of abstract rational relationships necessitates
the existence and assistance of a non-physical entity, the human
soul, which provides the power of rational comprehension from
outside the physical realm.
Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related to Law in
Bahá’í Scripture is an attempt to find out whether there is any
pattern within Shoghi Effendi’s translation of terms related to
the word “law”. The search in the translations of Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings by Shoghi Effendi resulted in finding about ten
Arabic/Persian words that occur in Bahá’í scripture and have
been translated by him as “law” or other equivalent terms. His
translations appear to be based on contextual purpose and
meaning of Persian/Arabic terms.
Shared Prosperity: How Does That Work? examines
proposals from three sectors — government, global institutions
and the third sector — and considers them in the light of
principles found in the Bahá'í writings bearing on shared
prosperity and poverty eradication.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
At Dawn the Friend came to my bed: An early fruit of the
Supreme Pen is a provisional translation and a detailed
analytical commentary of Bahá’u’lláh’s poem which begins with
the verse Sa˙ar ámad bi bistar-am Yár, “At dawn the Friend
came to my bed,” and is one among eight Persian poems signed
“Dervish.” A Hymn to Love (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí) is a provisional
translation of another one of Bahá’u’lláh’s poems probably
belonging to the period of his sojourn in Kurdistan. In this
poem the Most Great Spirit is described first as Water and Fire,
and then as Love itself. Many verses are devoted to a
description of Love and of its impact on human hearts and on
the world.
The section on Elucidation contains the message of the
Universal House of Justice of 24 July 2013 on Intellectual Life
and the Future of Bahá’í Studies addressed to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. It provides a new
vision and a set of guidelines for activities such as those of the
Associations of Bahá’í Studies.
The In Memoriam section in this volume pays tribute to one
of the first and steadfast supporters of the ‘Irfán Colloquium,
Dr. Kamran Ekbal, who passed away in 2014. Dr. Ekbal made a
number of research-based presentations, over the past twenty
years, at the ‘Irfán Colloquium sessions held in Persian, English
and German languages. We also lost another sincere
contributor to the English programs of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
held at Bosch Bahá’í School, Mr. James Thomas. Unfortunately,
we have so far been unable to find biographical information on
Mr. Thomas.
Appendix I is the Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviated titles used in the text of the papers published in
this book, to facilitate referring to the sources of the quoted
statements.
Appendix II, Contents of Previous Volumes of Lights of
‘Irfán. Listing the contents of previous volumes also shows the
range, types, methodological approaches and scope of the

Preface
papers that are presented, and are welcome to be presented, at
the ‘Irfán Colloquia. In addition to the papers presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia, research papers related to the main goals of
the ‘Irfán Colloquium are welcome to be directly submitted for
publication in the Lights of ‘Irfán.
Starting with Book Six, we have made two changes to the
‘Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix II, “Bibliography of
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations
from Sacred Writings, (not including statements by Shoghi
Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All papers published in this book, present the views and
understanding of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. Their writing styles and
scholarly approaches are, therefore, different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the authors’ surnames.
— Iraj Ayman

The Ten Plagues of the Exodus in Light of the
Bahá’í Writings
JoAnn M. Borovicka
The biblical narrative of the ten plagues is one of the most
memorable accounts in the Hebrew Bible1 and plays a central
role in the larger story of the Israelites’ Exodus from Egypt
under the leadership of Moses. While traditionally assumed to
be a record of ancient history, research in archaeology as well as
studies in ancient literature over the past century report a lack
of extra-biblical evidence of the Exodus events. This is of
interest to Bahá’ís because the Central Figures2 of the Bahá’í
Faith mention elements of the Exodus in Their Writings.
Questions arise: how are we to understand the Bahá’í references
to the Exodus? Are the Central Figures using superhuman
knowledge to confirm the historical accuracy of some elements
of the Exodus story, or is there another explanation? Is belief in
the historicity of the Exodus important in the Bahá’í Faith? The
purpose of this paper is to demonstrate that the historical
accuracy of the Exodus story is not essential to a Bahá’í
appreciation of that scripture. To this end, it will review the
story of the Exodus, look at a sample of scholarship regarding
the historicity of the Exodus in general and the ten plagues
specifically, examine a selection of Bahá’í teachings regarding
ancient scripture, and explore possibilities on the contemporary
significance of the story of the ten plagues in light of the Bahá’í
Writings.
The setting of the Exodus narrative is generally dated to the
thirteenth century B.C. in the Nile Delta area of Egypt.3 As
presented in the Book of Exodus the Israelites, who had come

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
as immigrants to Egypt about four hundred years earlier, were
under the control of a tyrannical Pharaoh4 who kept them in
forced labor. Despite this treatment, the Israelites strengthened
and multiplied. Pharaoh, noting their strength and numbers,
became fearful of an uprising and consequently ordered the
murder of all baby boys born to Israeli women. From this
oppression arose the heroic figure of Moses.
Speaking from the Burning Bush, God commissioned Moses
to confront Pharaoh and deliver the Israelites from Egypt.
Pharaoh responded by increasing the people’s workload. After
another refusal by Pharaoh, God, through Moses, smote the
land with a series of ten plagues: the Egyptian waters turning
into blood; an invasion of frogs; gnats as numerous as the dust;
swarms of flies; diseased livestock; festering boils on people
and animals; thunder, fire and hail; an invasion of locusts; three
days of darkness; and the death of every Egyptian firstborn.5
After the last plague, Pharaoh agreed to release the Israelites,
who were then led by Moses out of Egypt by way of the Red
(Reed6) Sea. The refugees had travelled just a few days when
Pharaoh changed his mind and set out with his army and
charioteers to retrieve them. As the Egyptian forces
approached, Moses stretched His hand over the sea, the water
parted, and the Israelites crossed through this dry passage.
When the Egyptians pursued, Moses stretched His hand over
the sea once more, the waters closed, and all of the Egyptian
forces were drowned. Thus, the Israelites escaped oppression in
Egypt and Moses continued to lead the people through the
wilderness toward the Land of Canaan — roughly present day
Israel.7
The story of the Exodus has endured well over two thousand
years8 and is commemorated annually by the Jewish holiday of
Passover. But does it represent historical fact? Mírzá Abu’l-
Fa∂l,9 a renowned Near Eastern scholar of the early 20th
century, points out the lack of evidence of any of the Exodus
events up to that time. He states, “No trace has been found of

Plagues of the Exodus
Moses’ mission to the Israelites, their plea for salvation from
Pharaoh's tyranny through Moses’ leadership, or their
emigration to the plains of Syria under his standard.”10 He says
that “those with insight” should note this lack of evidence:
For it is unimaginable that the Egyptians, who depicted
on walls every event, great or small, and inscribed in
stone everything that happened in Egypt, whether
temporal or religious in nature, should have neglected to
mention such extraordinary and stupendous occurrences
as Moses’ demonstration of amazing signs and the
drowning of Pharaoh and his huge army.11
Since the time of Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l much has been learned
about the history of the ancient Israelites, but evidence
regarding the Exodus is still lacking. As recently stated by the
eminent Egyptologist Donald B. Redford, the entire Exodus
story “remains the most elusive of all the salient events of
Israelite history. The event is supposed to have taken place in
Egypt, yet Egyptian sources know it not.”12 While the general
situation of immigrants being conscripted into forced labor in
the delta region of ancient Egypt is verified, extra-biblical
evidence of a large group of Israelites in Egypt, the ten plagues,
or the movement of the Israelites from Egypt to the Land of
Canaan is lacking.13 Eric H. Cline, professor of ancient history
and archeology at George Washington University, states, “there
is currently virtually nothing that sheds a specific light on the
historicity of the Exodus — all is inference so far.”14 Israel
Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman, both noted archaeologists
and historians, describe the rigorous Egyptian monitoring and
record-keeping of the Egypt/Canaan border at the calculated
time of Moses and point out the unlikelihood of an unrecorded
mass escape:
The border between Canaan and Egypt was thus closely
controlled. If a great mass of fleeing Israelites had
passed thorough the border fortifications of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Pharaonic regime, a record should exist. Yet in the
abundant Egyptian sources describing the time of the
New Kingdom in general and the thirteenth century in
particular, there is no reference to the Israelites, not
even a single clue. We know of nomadic groups from
Edom who entered Egypt from the desert. The
Merneptah stele refers to Israel as a group of people
already living in Canaan. But we have no clue, not even
a single word, about Israelites in Egypt: neither in
monumental inscriptions on walls of temples, not in
tomb inscriptions, nor in papyri. Israel is absent — as a
possible foe of Egypt, as a friend, or as an enslaved
nation.15
The eventual settlement of the Israelites in the Land of
Canaan is historical fact.16 The Israelites enslavement in or mass
escape from Egypt has not been confirmed. Considering this
lack of empirical evidence in Egypt as well as other information
gleaned through study of extra-biblical texts and extensive
archaeological research in Israel,17 the story of the Exodus is, in
many circles, thought of as “not a miraculous revelation, but a
brilliant product of the human imagination . . . woven together
from an astonishingly rich collection of historical writings,
memories, legends, folk tales, anecdotes, royal propaganda,
prophecy, and ancient poetry” sometime in the sixth or seventh
century B.C.18,19 Today, among biblical scholars, the Exodus
narrative is often referred to as one of “the founding myths of
Israel.”20
While the historical record thus far indicates a lack of
evidence of the Exodus events, there have been many attempts
to prove the physical truth of the ten plagues through the earth
sciences. Some of these ‘natural cause’ theories have taken on
an aura of fact as they have become popularized by television
documentaries. Velikovsky’s hypothesis, the earliest of the
natural cause theories, proposes that the series of plagues was
initiated by a comet passing to close to earth.21 Another

Plagues of the Exodus
suggests that the plagues were initiated by the concurrent
flooding of the Nile, a red tide of algae, and widespread anthrax
infection.22 The medical team of Marr and Malloy suggest the
possibility that Pfiesteriae, a toxic microorganism fatal to fish,
contaminated the Nile and caused widespread havoc.23 Perhaps
the most popular proposal, the Thera Theory, places the cause
of the plagues on two ancient volcano eruptions on the Greek
Island of Thera (present day Santorini) in the Aegean Sea.24
While the details of the natural cause theories vary, in
general they propose a domino-like series of catastrophes such
as: a weather anomaly causing poisoned water resulting in dead
fish; frogs escaping the water and invading the land; a
consequent overgrowth of gnats, flies, and locusts; pollution of
the food supply resulting in disease; and (in some theories)
human sacrifice of the firstborns in an effort to appease the
gods who were blamed for all the chaos, thereafter remembered
as the death of the firstborns. Some theories include a parting
of the waters caused by a tsunami initiated by post-volcanic
seismic forces.25
The common theme of the various natural cause explanations
is that the plagues and the parting of the waters were caused by
a sequence of natural events that may or may not have been
intentionally initiated by God Himself. However, despite the
popularity of these theories, definite proof is still not
forthcoming.26 Refuting the natural cause model, physicist and
theologian Mark Harris, University of Edinburgh’s Lecturer on
Science and Religion, states, “considerable scholarship, both
scientific and biblical . . . indicate that this model cannot be
reasonably sustained.”27,28 To date, there is no conclusive
evidence of the Exodus events in the historical records
disclosed by archaeology, the study of ancient Near Eastern
literature, or the earth sciences.
The lack of evidence of the Exodus events in the historical
record is noteworthy. But how important should the extra-
biblical historical record be to the Bahá’í community in its

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
understanding of the story? According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the
historical record is important and can be used as an indicator of
whether biblical verses should be understood literally or
symbolically. In response to a question about the historicity of
certain other biblical events,29 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “As these
events have not been recorded in any history, it is evident that
they are not to be understood literally but according to their
inner meaning.” [SAQ 44] In light of this guidance, it follows
that Bahá’ís should look for inner meaning in the Exodus
narrative as, to date, the historicity of these events has not
been corroborated by extra-biblical records. Indeed, seeking
spiritual truth without being attached to the necessity of having
a literal interpretation is a fundamental principle in a Bahá’í
approach to the Bible. As explained in a letter written on behalf
of Shoghi Effendi: “When ‘Abdul-Bahá states we believe what is
in the Bible, He means in substance. Not that we believe every
word of it to be taken literally or that every word is the
authentic saying of the Prophet.” [LOG 494] Therefore, the
possibility that the Exodus narrative is not journalistic history
and that one should focus on its allegorical meanings is
consistent with Bahá’í teachings.
In the process of investigating the symbolic nature of the
Exodus narrative, it is fascinating, even a little surprising, to
see that all of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith mention a
key element of the story — the enslavement of the Israelites
under a tyrannical Pharaoh — in Their Writings.30 For example,
in a commentary on the Mosaic Dispensation in The Secret of
Divine Civilization, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “The enslavement . . .
of the Hebrews was such that they were not able to provide any
defense for their wives and families against the tyranny of their
Pharaonic captors.” [SDC 75] How is this reference, and others
similar to it, to be understood? Does mention of an Exodus
event in the Writings of the Central Figures of the Faith
indicate its literal truth, or is there another way to interpret
these references? How are Bahá’ís to understand it when the

Plagues of the Exodus
Central Figures mention a biblical story that modern scholars
largely identify as parable — not fact?
Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l addresses this question directly by
explaining that the Prophets often speak to the traditional
understandings of the people. He states:
[T]he prophets have indulged the people in regard to
their historical notions, folk stories, and scientific
principles, and have spoken to them according to these.
They conversed as was appropriate to their audience and
hid certain realities behind the curtain of allusion. . . .
Finally, it is well known that neither the Prophet
Muhammad nor the rest of the Prophets ever engaged in
disputes with the people about their historical beliefs,
but addressed them according to their local traditions.31
Addressing students ‘where they are’ in the process of
moving them forward is a universal method of effective
teachers and one described by Bahá’u’lláh as a strategy of the
Divine Educator. He states, “All that I have revealed unto thee
with the tongue of power, and have written for thee with the
pen of might, hath been in accordance with thy capacity and
understanding, not with My state and the melody of My voice.”
[AHW #67] Knowing that the Prophets speak to the capacities of
the people includes awareness that the words of the Prophets
are not limited to cultural connotations. The Universal House
of Justice states:
Although,
in
conveying
His
Revelation,
the
Manifestation uses the language and culture of the
country into which He is born, He is not confined to
using terminology with the same connotations as those
given to it by His predecessors or contemporaries; He
delivers His message in a form which His audience, both
immediate and in centuries to come, is capable of
grasping. [8 February 1998]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Cultural connotations could be literal understandings as well
as other culturally imposed perceptions. Considering the above
guidance, it follows that when the Central Figures of the Faith
draw on the imagery of a biblical story in Their teachings
additional information may be required to determine if that
event is historical fact or cultural tradition.
An examination of the complete passage from The Secret of
Divine Civilization previously mentioned offers additional
information which suggests that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is conforming to
the audience’s traditional understandings of the Exodus. Before
His commentary on the Israelites captivity under a tyrannical
Pharaoh and their movement from Egypt to the Promised Land,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
The events that transpired at the advent of the Prophets
of
the
past,
and
Their
ways
and
works
and
circumstances,
are
not
adequately
set
down
in
authoritative histories, and are referred to only in
condensed form in the verses of the Qur’án, the Holy
Traditions and the Torah. . . . To preclude once and for
all objections on the part of any of the world's peoples,
We shall conduct Our discussion conformably to those
authoritative accounts which all nations are agreed
upon. [SDC 75]
If historical happenings are “not adequately set down” but
“condensed” to essential meanings, it may be possible that the
final product could be mythology, legend, parable, fable,
poetry, or any number of literary forms suitable for conveying
higher significances to the heart. However reliably these
figurative forms of language may communicate significant
meanings, they may or may not express historical facts. Also,
considering ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that He is reviewing the
story of the Israelites “conformably” to that which is generally
agreed upon, it is important to note that this commentary was
written in 1875 which was just at the dawn of higher biblical
criticism (the application of analytical measures to biblical

Plagues of the Exodus
texts).32,33 At that time it was largely thought that Moses wrote
the Torah and that it represented historical fact. Indeed,
Finkelstein and Silberman report that until the 1970s even the
science of archaeology in the land of the Bible was driven by an
acceptance of the narratives of the Torah “at face value”.34,35
After
this
introduction,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
mentions
the
Israelites’ captivity in Egypt and eventual movement toward
the Promised Land in a manner that directs the reader’s focus to
the spiritual essence of the story: the Divine guidance of the
Manifestation, the enlightenment of the people, and the
evolution of unity. For example, He states:
In the midst of the Israelites, He [Moses] blazed out like
a lamp of Divine guidance, and by the light of salvation
He led that lost people out of the shadows of ignorance
into knowledge and perfection. He gathered Israel's
scattered tribes into the shelter of the unifying and
universal Word of God, and over the heights of union
He raised up the banner of harmony, so that within a
brief interval those benighted souls became spiritually
educated, and they who had been strangers to the truth,
rallied to the cause of the oneness of God, and were
delivered out of their wretchedness, their indigence,
their incomprehension and captivity and achieved a
supreme degree of happiness and honor. [SCD 76]
The above passage engages the imagery of the Exodus while
simultaneously widening the concept of ‘captivity’ by equating
bondage with conditions of the mind and the spirit, such as
ignorance — thereby making this element of the Exodus story
universally
relevant.36
It
also
confirms
the
spiritual
transformation engendered by the Mosaic Dispensation in the
general context of the Exodus narrative without focusing on
historical details that require literal interpretation.
In light of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that He was conducting
His discussion of the Israelites development under Moses

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
“conformably” to what was “agreed upon”, His focus on the
inner meaning of the captivity of the Israelites in the same
passage, His guidance that lack of evidence in the historical
record indicates that biblical scripture should be understood
for its inner (not literal) meaning, and the lack of evidence of
the Exodus events in the historical record to date, I propose
that when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions the Israelites enslavement
under a tyrannical Pharaoh He is not giving a history lesson —
He is giving a spiritual lesson delivered through the imagery of
a cultural tradition.
In
addition,
given
Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement
that
the
Manifestation of God speaks according to the capacity of the
people, and also taking into account the elucidation by the
House of Justice that cultural connotations cannot be assumed
in the words of the Manifestation, I would propose that it
would not be unreasonable to understand Bahá’u’lláh’s and the
Báb’s occasional mention of the Israelites’ captivity under
Pharaoh in the same symbolic manner.
When asked why symbolism was such an integral part of
religious scripture, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained,
Divine things are too deep to be expressed by common
words. The heavenly teachings are expressed in parable
in order to be understood and preserved for ages to
come. When the spiritually minded dive deeply into the
ocean of their meaning they bring to the surface the
pearls of their inner significance. [ABL 79]
One wonders about the inner significances of the ten plagues
— this ancient story that continues to engage imaginations over
two thousand years after its composition. Fortunately, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá provides an authoritative interpretation for the first
plague of waters turning into blood.37 His explanation comes in
an unexpected context — the section of Some Answered
Questions entitled “Commentary on the Eleventh Chapter of
the Revelation of John” (the last book of the New Testament).

Plagues of the Exodus
Throughout this commentary, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains how the
eleventh chapter of the Book of Revelation foretells events in
the Dispensation of Muhammad. Revelation 11:6 draws on the
imagery of water turning to blood. In the process of
interpreting
this
verse,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
also
unveils
an
interpretation of the first plague of the Exodus:
“And have power over waters to turn them to blood.”
[Rev
11:6] This means that the prophethood of
Muhammad was similar to that of Moses, and the power
of ‘Alí like that of Joshua. That is, it was in their power,
had they so desired, to turn the waters of the Nile into
blood for the Egyptians and the deniers — or, in other
words, to turn, in consequence of their ignorance and
pride, that which was the source of their life into the
cause of their death. Thus the sovereignty, wealth, and
power of Pharaoh and of his people, which were the
source of that nation’s life, became, as a result of their
opposition, denial, and pride, the very cause of their
death, ruin, destruction, degradation, and wretchedness.
Hence these two witnesses have power to destroy
nations. [SAQ 58]
From this explanation it can be understood that the Nile, in
all aspects the water of life to the Egyptians, symbolizes the
traditional source of sovereignty, wealth, and power that
became outdated with the appearance of the Mosaic
Revelation. This same dynamic repeated itself with the
appearance of the Muhammadan Revelation as prophesied in
the Book of Revelation. In Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanation, the
spoiling of the river is symbolic of the way that denying the
Manifestation of God and holding onto outdated forms of
sovereignty, wealth, and power can be oppressive. Archetypal
truth is expressed in figurative terms as waters turning to
blood.
While direct explanations for the other nine plagues are not
found in the Bahá’í Writings,38 examining the plague terms as

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
they are used in other contexts in the Writings can inform
personal reflection and help lovers of the plague narrative to
discover spiritual meanings for themselves. For example, the
following statement by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá where He compares
rumormongers with the “croaking of frogs” and the “buzzing
of flies” inspires ideas of what the plagues of frogs and flies
may symbolize today:
Verily, I, through the grace of my Lord, have never
heeded these souls, even to reading their articles,
inasmuch as their articles signify no other than the
buzzing of flies to the hearing of an eagle, or the
croaking of a frog of the material world to the ears of
the leviathan of the sea of the Kingdom. Is it to be
considered as anything? No, by no means! Verily, the
eagle soareth high in the supreme apex while the flies
rumble in the lowest rubbish. [TAB2 349]
Along the same vein, the plague of gnats comes to mind in
Bahá’u’lláh’s encouragement to not become disheartened by the
peoples of the world who are “filled with dismay”:
Take heed lest Thou falter on that Day when all created
things are filled with dismay; rather be Thou the revealer
of My name, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
Assist Thy Lord to the utmost of Thine ability, and pay
no heed to the peoples of the world, for that which their
mouths utter is like unto the droning of a gnat in an
endless valley. [SLH 10]
The plague of lightening, thunder, and hail becomes
something more than violent weather when considered through
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s interpretation of these images in a New
Testament verse:
“And
there
were
lightnings,
and
voices,
and
thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail”
[Revelation 11:19], meaning that after the appearance of

Plagues of the Exodus
the Book of the Testament there will be a great storm,
and the lightnings of the anger and the wrath of God
will flash, the noise of the thunder of the violation of
the Covenant will resound, the earthquake of doubts
will take place, the hail of torments will beat upon the
violators of the Covenant, and even those who profess
belief will fall into trials and temptations. [SAQ 69-70]
Similarly, the plague of darkness takes on fresh meaning
when one considers Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching that God’s purpose in
sending His Prophets unto men is “first is to liberate the
children of men from the darkness of ignorance, and guide
them to the light of true understanding.” [GWB 79]
Reflection on a sample of the plagues in light of the above
Bahá’í quotations demonstrates the value of focusing on inner
meanings. Instead of one-time frogs, flies, gnats, darkness,
lightening, thunder, and hail that may or may not have caused
mayhem three thousand years ago, these afflictions become
powerful symbols in an easy-to-remember story that reminds us
of the ultimate futility of falsehood and dismay, the dangers of
the violation of the Covenant, the inevitability of doubts and
temptations, and the suffering caused by ignorance. There is no
need to argue about whether or not the plagues happened three
thousand years ago — these are things that plague us today.
While the above Bahá’í quotations may inspire ideas about
the
spiritual
meanings
of
the
plagues,
the
suggested
interpretations are not offered as a primitive exegesis. We may
never know the intent of the storytellers who passed on the
images of the plagues, or know how later editors and redactors
understood them — and that is perfectly acceptable because
reading the Bible is not all about historical context. Noted
theologian Gerald L. Bruns points out that, “The whole
orientation of Scripture is toward its future, not toward its
past.”39 One of the greatest values of pondering the inner
meanings of biblical Scripture is not necessarily to focus on the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
context of ancient cultures, but to nurture the heart today and
tomorrow. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
All the texts and teachings of the holy Testaments have
intrinsic spiritual meanings. They are not to be taken
literally. I, therefore, pray in your behalf that you may
be given the power of understanding these inner real
meanings of the Holy Scriptures and may become
informed of the mysteries deposited in the words of the
Bible so that you may attain eternal life and that your
hearts may be attracted to the Kingdom of God. [PUP
459]
More historical information concerning the physical
journeys and circumstances of the Israelites in the early days of
the Mosaic Dispensation may be discovered by archaeology and
other disciplines in the future, or may be lost to time, but the
Bahá’í Writings indicate that inner meanings related to the
Mosaic Dispensation live in the biblical story. Whether or not
the details are confirmed in the historical record, the Bahá’í
Writings acknowledge the biblical text as a spiritual guide to
the Kingdom.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Booyson, Riaan. Thera and the Exodus. Winchester: John Hunt
Publishing, 2013.
Bruns, Gerald L. “Midrash and Allegory: The Beginnings of Scriptural
Interpretation.” in The Literary Guide to the Bible. Ed. Robert
Alter and Frank Kermode. Cambridge: Harvard University Press,
1987.
Cline, Eric H. 1177 B.C.: The Year Civilization Collapsed. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 2014.
“The Exodus Decoded.” James Cameron, Simcha Jacobovici.
Produced in association with the History Channel U.S. and the
Discover Channel Canada, 2005. DVD.

Plagues of the Exodus
Finkelstein, Israel and Neil Asher Silberman. The Bible Unearthed:
Archaeology’s New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its
Sacred Texts. New York: The Free Press, 2001.
Finkelstein, Israel and Amihai Mazar. The Quest for the Historical
Israel: Debating Archaeology and the History of Early Israel.
Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature, 2007.
Fokkelman, J. P. “Exodus.” in A Literary Guide to the Bible. Ed.
Robert Alter and Frank Kermode. Cambridge: Harvard University
Press, 1987.
Friedman, Richard Elliott. The Bible with Sources Revealed: A New
View into the Five Books of Moses. New York: Harper Collins,
2005.
Friedman, Richard Elliott. Who Wrote the Bible? New York: Harper
Collins, 1987.
Gallup, G. H. Jr. Religion in America 1996. Princeton: Princeton
Religion Research Center, 1996.
Gray, Richard. “Biblical Plagues Really Happened Say Scientists.” in
The Telegraph, March 27, 2010.
Harris, Mark J. “How Did Moses Part the Red Sea? — Science as
Salvation in the Exodus Tradition.” in Moses in Biblical and Extra
Biblical Traditions. Ed. Alex Graupner and Michael Wolten.
Germany: Walter De Gruyter, 2007. 5-31.
Hornby, Helen, ed. Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. New
Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2004.
Hort, Greta. “The Plagues of Egypt.” Zeitschrift für die
Alttestament-liche Wissenschaft 69 (1957): 84-103; 70 (1958): 48-
59.
Houston, Walter. “Exodus.” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed.
John Barton and John Mudduman. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2013. 67-91.
Killebrew, Anne E. Biblical Peoples and Ethnicity. Atlanta: Society of
Biblical Literature, 2005.
Marr, John S. and Curtis D. Malloy. “An Epidemiologic Analysis of
the Ten Plagues of Egypt.” in Caduceus 12.1 (1996): 7-24.
Meyers, Carol. “Exodus.” in The New Oxford Annotated Bible. Ed.
Michael D. Coogan. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010.
Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l. Miracles and Metaphors. Los Angeles: Kalimat
Press, 1981.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Redford, Donald B. Egypt, Canaan, and Israel in Ancient Times.
Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1992.
Salzman, Robert S. Mega Tsunami: The True Story of the Hebrew
Exodus from Egypt. New York, iUniverse Inc: 2005.
Schniedewind, William M. How the Bible Became a Book. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2004.
Stockman, Robert. “The Bahá’í Faith and Higher Biblical Criticism”
in The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions: Papers presented at
the Irfan Colloquia. Ed. Moojan Momen. Oxford: George Ronald,
2003, pp. 107-114.
“The Ten Plagues of the Bible.” National Geographic. Season 20,
Episodes 6 and 7, Show ID 154561, 2010. DVD.
The Universal House of Justice. The Resurrection of Christ
Memorandum 14 September 1987, Research Department of the
Universal House of Justice. http://bahai-library.com/
uhj_resurrection_bible.
———. “Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá'í Faith” in Bahá'í
Canada, May 1998. Online at http://bahai-library.com/
compilation_issues_study_bahai.
Walton, John H. Ancient Near Eastern Thought and the Old
Testament: Introducing the Conceptual World of the Hebrew
Bible. Grand Rapids: Baker Academic, 2006.
Wilson, Ian. The Exodus Enigma. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson,
1985.
Wright, Robert. The Evolution of God. New York: Back Bay Books,
2010.
Velikovsky, Immanuel. Worlds in Collision. 1950. London: Abacus,
1972.

NOTES
1. The Hebrew Bible correlates in general to the Old Testament of the
Christian Bible.
2. The Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith are Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
3. Killebrew, p. 151.

Plagues of the Exodus

4. The Pharaoh is not named. According to Fokkelman, “Pharaoh” is
probably an emblematic title meant to encompass all of the Egyptian
kings who exploited generations of Israelites in the Exodus story
(Fokkelman, p. 59).
5. The ten afflictions are variously referred to as signs and wonders, plagues,
and blows (Houston, p. 73).
6. Hebrew Yam Suph; that is, Sea of Reeds (Exodus 15:4 NIV, note a.).
7. Biblical and historical terms for this land area include Land of Canaan, the
Promised Land, the Holy Land, Palestine, Israel and Judah, the State of
Israel, and the Southern Levant. Biblical boundaries of this land area vary.
See Genesis 15, Exodus 23, Numbers 34, and Ezekiel 47.
8. The current understanding based on the Documentary Hypothesis is that
the Book of Exodus was created from a variety of materials through a
long two-stage process of authorship. One source (referred to as J or
Jawist/Yawist) composed the bulk of the work probably in the sixth or
seventh century B.C. The second (P or Priestly) author expanded on the
story in the late sixth or fifth century B.C. (Houston 68). For more
information on the Documentary Hypothesis see Friedman 1987, 2005.
9. Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l-i-Gulpáygání: “The most outstanding scholar of the
Bahá’í Faith”; lived at the time of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; named
one of the nineteen Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh by Shoghi Effendi (Momen,
pp. 6-7).
10. Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l-i-Gulpáygání, p.15.
11. ibid. p. 16.
12. Redford, p. 408.
13. Finkelstein and Silberman, pp. 52-54.
14. Cline, p. 92.
15. Finkelstein and Silberman, pp. 59-60.
16. For example, the Merneptah stele indicates the existence of a people
referred to as “Israel” in the Land of Canaan at the very end of the
thirteenth century B.C.; archaeological evidence shows signs of a distinct
Israelite presence in the Land of Canaan in the Iron Age; the Tel Dan
inscription shows evidence of the existence of the House of David in the
ninth century (Finkelstein and Silberman, pp. 57, 118-119, 129).
17. Extensive archaeological research in Israel over the past thirty years
reveals a story that differs from the Hebrew Bible — that being the
gradual emergence of the Israelite tribes from within the Land of Canaan.
In the words of Finkelstein and Silberman, “There was no mass Exodus
from Egypt. There was no violent conquest of Canaan” (Finkelstein and
Silberman, p. 118). It is noteworthy that Israel Finkelstein, one of the
authors of this statement, is the past Director of the Sonia and Marco
Nadler Institute of Archaeology at Tel Aviv University, the leading

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

archaeologist of the Levant, and a recipient of the 2005 international Dan
David Prize — a one million USD award for achievement that “expands
knowledge of former times” (DanDavidPrize.org).
18. Finkelstein and Silberman, p. 2.
19. On the topic of the writing of the Book of Exodus, also see Redmond,
pp. 408-422; Friedman, pp. 7-31, 119-189; Houston, 67-68; Schniedewind,
118-138.
20. Wright, p. 161; Meyers, p. 81-82.
21. Velikovsky.
22. Hort, pp. 84-103.
23. Marr and Malloy, pp. 16-24.
24. “The Ten Plagues of the Bible.”
25. Trevisanato, pp. 9-59; Booyson, 289-309.
26. Cline, p. 93.
27. Harris, p. 21.
28. For example, the Thera hypothesis suffers in that it is now known that
the eruption was much less violent and occurred much earlier than what
was originally assumed by theorists. (Harris, pp. 18-21).
29. Matthew 27:51-53.
30. For example: Bahá’u’lláh, ESW 63; Bahá’u’lláh, KI 63; The Báb, SWB 26;
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SDC 74-76; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SAQ 17.
31. Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l-i-Gulpáygání, pp. 9, 14.
32. Walton, p. 15-17.
33. For a study of the value of higher biblical criticism in light of the Bahá’í
Writings, see Stockman, pp. 107-114.
34. Finkelstein and Silberman, p. 21.
35. Divine authorship of the Bible is still a popular view. In the 1996 Gallup
pole it was reported that 35% of Americans believed that the Bible is the
literal and inerrant word of the Creator of the universe (Gallup, 1996).
36. The concept of captivity as a condition of the soul is a prominent theme
in the Bahá’í Writings. Bahá’u’lláh states, “He is indeed a captive who
hath not recognized the Supreme Redeemer, but hath suffered his soul to
be bound, distressed and helpless, in the fetters of his desires” [GWB
169].
37. Exodus 7:19-21.
38. That is, at this time, this writer has not found direct interpretations of
biblical plagues two through ten in the Bahá’í Writings that are available
to her in English.
39. Bruns, p. 629.

Freud’s Transference and the Four States of
Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang A. Klebel
As in several previous contribution of this writer in the
“Lights of ‘Irfán,” the understanding of a central Verse from
the “Valley of Unity” of Bahá’u’lláh’s Seven Valleys is at the
core of this article. In this verse Bahá’u’lláh talked about
something that is fundamentally True of Thyself and developed
a structure that was called tetrarchic by this writer. (Emphasis
and sentence structure was added by this writer)
And thus
firstness and lastness, outwardness and inwardness
are, in the sense referred to,
true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee
thou shouldst comprehend the four divine states
[SVFV 27, emphasis by this writer]
These four states have been called tetrarchic, which is a term
that was coined to describe this structure and was modeled
from an originally Greek word used in a new sense. It can be
organized in this structure and the Wilberian concepts of ‘I’,
‘We’, ‘It’ and ‘Its’ can be put in the respective places and the
opposites of Spirit versus Body and Unity versus Diversity can
be added.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The four journeys in the pathway of love have been added in
these four areas as well as many other structures from the
Bahá’í Writings fit this tetrarchic form.
The journeys in the pathway of love are reckoned as
four: From the creatures to the True One; from the True
One to the creatures; from the creatures to the
creatures; from the True One to the True One. [SVFV 25]
Tetrarchic Understanding of Reality
Considering that answers reaching into the depth of being
are complex, are transcending simple logic or straight forward
thinking, the process of thinking about such answers needs to
be explored as well. With this thought, we come to the special
aspect of this study, the fact we talk about a tetrarchic
structure.

Freud’s Transference
Tetrarchy is a Greek word from history, “tetras” meaning
four and “arche” meaning beginning, principle, prince or ruler.
The meaning of arche, which is found in words like archeology
or archaic, is described in the Wikipedia:
Arche (Ancient Greek: ἀρχή) is a Greek word with
primary senses ‘beginning’, ‘origin’ or ‘first cause’.
Later, ‘power’, ‘sovereignty’, ‘domination’ were also
accepted as extended meanings. ... In the language of the
archaic period (8th-6th century BC) arche (or archai)
designates the source, origin or root of things that exist.
In ancient Greek Philosophy, Aristotle foregrounded the
meaning of arche as the element or principle of a thing,
which although indemonstrable and intangible in itself,
provides the conditions of the possibility of that thing.
In this article the word tetrarchy — or consisting of four
principles, modes or causes — is mostly used in the meaning of
the Greek word “Arche” ascribed to Aristotle, as presented
above, “as the element or principle of a thing, which although
indemonstrable and intangible in itself, provides the conditions
of the possibility of that thing.” The four principles of the
tetrarchy have to be understood in this way, they are the
elements or modes of reality, they are the condition of the
possibility of reality and the condition of every reality, while
reality is always seen as what actually and concretely exists.
They explain how to understand concrete reality. In their unity
reality becomes understandable in its diversity. This is similar as
in traditional Aristotelian philosophy; reality or being was
described as the true, the good, and the beautiful.
There are several important and new ideas combined in this
tetrarchic idea. The most important are based on the concept of
Complementarily in Niels Bohr’s quantum mechanics, of Polar
Opposites in Romano Guardini’s “Gegensatz” philosophy, and
the Four Quadrants in Ken Wilber’s Integral Psychology, all of
which have been presented in previous articles of this author in
the “Lights of ‘Irfán.” Here the connection between the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
complementary and polar concepts, as well as the connection
between the four quadrants or the four principles in the
tetrarchic system will be addressed.
These connections will be further explained by including the
Freudian concept of transference into the understanding of
reality. Reality is then understood as a process to indicate the
underlying unity in the polar and fourfold tetrarchies of being,
of reality, and of the self. Finally this study will give us some
insight into the way God is represented in the mind according
to psychoanalytic understanding. This correlation of a Freudian
concept with the Bahá’í Writings is unexpected to say the least.
Additionally, this fact can give a psychological explanation of
how the child acquires the first idea about God which is another
benefit of this approach.
First the Freudian transference concept will be presented
here and it will be shown that it has an intrinsic tetrarchic
structure
that
was
not
described
directly
by
Freud.
Nevertheless, it can be inferred from his writings, because what
Freud said about transference and its aspects leads towards this
conclusion, which Freud could not make because of his
“scientific” prejudices and his methodological reductionism.
The difference between what Freud found in his analytic
treatment of his patients and what he could systematically
describe in his meta-psychology is quite significant and was
described by this author in his dissertation,1 more than 30 years
before he developed the concept of tetrarchies as a way of
understanding reality. The following is quoted from this
dissertation on transference and culture, illuminating this
question.
What has been called the cultural aspect of transference
has its origin in the social aspect of man. The very fact
that transference is the transference of early childhood
experiences with significant others makes this clear. The
instinctual aspect of transference becomes clear when
transference is seen as repetition compulsion; and when

Freud’s Transference
it is explored in its energetic aspect. Yet, there is
another aspect of transference, which takes all of that
instinctual energy and drive into the service of the ego,
as it can be said, or into the cultural realm. It does that
not only as a product of sublimation of instinctual
energy, but much more as a prerequisite of its
expression. This is what is meant when Freud said the
mother teaches the child to love.
The interaction between the child and his mother (or
father) and other important adults in his early life create
the unique human situation. From this synergetic
interaction something new will originate, which was
neither in the mother, nor in the child by itself. Yet this
new entity is not altogether new; it was present not as
an objectively tangible fact, but it was present in what
is usually called culture, that is, the human interrelation.
This needed to be stated here in order to indicate the far
reaching implications of Freud’s new understanding that
transference is a universal aspect of the human mind.
[Klebel 1976, 110-111]
Freud developed the transference concept in his paper of the
Dora Case2 and his definition includes the following aspects:
Transferences are new editions of impulses or fantasies
of the past, which are experienced as present and as
related to the analyst.
According to psychoanalytic theory and practical
experience in psychoanalysis, transferences cannot be
avoided.
Transferences are not created by analysis; they are only
brought to light by it.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
In the beginning, transferences seemed to be a great
obstacle to treatment, yet, if handled properly, they are
the most effective vehicle of change in therapy and lead
to the understanding of the neuroses and of the analytic
process.” [Klebel 1976, 47]
The universality of transference in every human relationship,
as stated by Freud is of importance in order to understand how
transference and culture are related. Freud clearly and
frequently stated this fact, for example in his Autobiographical
Study:
It must not be supposed, however, that transference is
created by analysis and does not occur apart from it.
Transference is merely uncovered and isolated by
analysis. It is a universal phenomenon of the human
mind, it decides the success of all medical influence, and
in fact dominates the whole of each person’s relations to
this human environment. [Freud 1925, 20, 42]
Here it is clearly stated that transference not only happens in
any human relationship, but that every relationship is
dominated by transference, in other words, transference is
essential to every relationship. On the other hand in Freud’s
definition of culture, or civilization (Freud uses these terms
interchangeable), two aspects are stressed, one that culture
allows man to control the forces of nature, but most important
in this context is the statement that culture regulates all
relations of men to one another.
Human Civilization (or Culture) ... “includes on the one
hand all the knowledge and capacity that men have
acquired in order to control the forces of nature. ...
on the other hand, all the regulations necessary in order
to adjust the relations of men to one another and
especially the distribution of the available wealth.”
[Freud 1927, 21, 5-6]

Freud’s Transference
Freud defined culture as regulating all human relationships
and defines transferences as dominating all human relationships
but never mentions these two concepts together in his many
papers on culture and in his papers on transference. This fact
was one of the most important finding of this author’s
dissertation. The reasons for this are explored in the
dissertation; it is mainly the fact that Freud sees culture from
the instinctual side in an almost Darwinian perspective, even
places the origin of culture into the guilt of the original human
tribe over the original patricide he projects must have happened
in the beginning. In his book “Moses and Monotheism“ (1937)
Freud describes this story and concluded that in a reaction
formation this was the origin of monotheism.
After analyzing in the dissertation the Freudian transference
concept and its relation to therapy, repetition compulsion, love
and human relations in general, four theses on transference
were presented in the author’s dissertation, which will be
quoted below:
If transference is a universal aspect of every human
relation, it follows consequently that there is no stage in
life without transference as long as there is relationship
with other people.
Whatever occurs between two persons, as long as it can
be called a human relation, will include transference as a
basic function of this relationship.
Transference as a basic function of human relationships
is not limited to two persons relating to each other; it is
a characteristic of all human relationships including the
relations between an individual and a group, and
between groups themselves.
If culture is defined as that encompassing concept
integrating all forms of human relationships, then the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
transference concept will be of utmost importance for
the understanding of culture. [Klebel, 1976, 150-151]
When this understanding of transference is related to culture
a fourfold structure appears, which was originally described by
this writer in the following way:
Transference is part of every relationship as stated by
Freud. During this investigation it has become
increasingly apparent that transference has to be seen as
the transference of two aspects of every relationship.
The two aspects have been described as the instinctual
and cultural aspects of man. The function of
transference is to connect these two aspects into a whole.
This connection can be described in two different areas
which are interrelated; the first is the binding together
of the instinctual and the cultural aspect in the
individual. The other area is the tradition of this
combination from one generation to the other. [Klebel
1976 191]
When the instinctual is understood as the biological and
outside of man and the cultural as the inside or spirituality of
man, then we can easily place transference into the Wilberian
scheme of the four quadrants or can see transference as the idea
that connects the four aspects of the tetrarchy together. Even
when this author wrote his dissertation the importance of this
finding was noted as essential to a new understanding of the
human nature, when it was stated:
The understanding of the cultural function of
transference is expected not only to be a contribution
to psychoanalytic meta-psychology; it also opens up the
psychological approach to the question of the nature of
man. [Klebel 1976, 193]

Freud’s Transference
After this introduction it needs to be demonstrated how this
understanding of transference can be called tetrarchic and how
this spreads a new light on both, on the concept of tetrarchies
and of transference. Transference has two functions; it is
bridging as a concept — and as a psychoanalytic experience —
the area of the instinct with the area of personal relationships
and it is further bridging one generation to the next, i.e.,
bridging the area of the collective and the individual, or, in
other words, the area of the whole and its parts.
Transference as a Bridge between the Cultural and the
Instinctual
It needs to be noted that instincts are the interpretation of
the biological desires and needs of humans, and the importance
of transference is in the fact that transference enables the
person to elevate or sublimate these instincts into the cultural
or spiritual realm, so they can find satisfaction in the area of
the cultural or spiritual. In the normal maturing process this is
happening to every human being. In the analytic treatment of a
person, who could not do this appropriately and suffers from
neuroses, this process is renewed in treatment and hopefully
brought to a mature solution. In other words, when the
biological needs of the child are either not properly taken care
of or are not elevated in the growing up process, to find their
satisfaction in cultural and mature relations with others, mental
illness appears and therapy or analysis is needed to learn what
was missed before.
In this context maturity of the human self can be measured
by the ability to sublimate the instinctual to the cultural, Freud
would state “where Id was Ego shall be.” It could well be stated,
that maturity is achieved when physical sexuality is replaced or
better elevated by mutual love, so that the instinctual is more
than the animalistic “nature” and is integrated and elevated into
the spiritual, into love. Pure Sexuality becomes erotized
through elevation in mutual love. The same is true for all other

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
instinctual need of the child. So intake of food becomes a
festive celebration of a community and this process of
sublimation can be carried forward into many rituals of
different Religion, as for example the breaking of bread in the
Christian Eucharist is a symbol for the presence of Christ in the
community of believers.
The biological and physical constitution of a person might
make this maturing process more difficult or impossible. The
cultural factors of parenting and child rearing also influence
this process. In most cases both of these causes are combined,
so that the influence of nurture and nature can never be
separated in the individual. We are dealing here with a polarity,
a “Gegensatz,” between the instinctual and the cultural,
between the physical and the spiritual, or between the body and
the mind, which is connected and united through the process of
transference, because already in the child parents transfer their
cultural understanding to the newborn (or even the expected)
child; the child then continues to transfer this experience later
in life, in a mature or in a neurotic, or mentally ill fashion to all
other relationships the child will develop during her life,
especially to the relationship she will have with her children.
Transference as a bridge between the individual and
collective
The other aspect is the fact that transference bridges the
internal dynamic from the individual towards the other, i.e., the
other as individual or as a group, the other even as presented in
different group structures such as family, state or other
organizations like interest groupings or churches and finally all
of humankind. This idea of culture, which is transferred from
one generation to the next, is usually understood as including
all social and spiritual ideas that determine humanity.
This aspect of transference — especially developed in the
Object Relation Theory — was studied by Fairbairn, Winnicott
and others in England.3 In this theory, contrary to classical

Freud’s Transference
psychoanalysis, where the emphasis is in the instinctual dynamic
interaction, the need of the child to relate is the driving force
of development. The fact that a child is born into a culture,
into a family, and develops his ‘self’ in relation to the ‘other’, is
underlying human development. One could say, the polarity
between individual and collective is the dynamic force that
causes the development of the child.
In this process the young child develops the reorientation of
the other and of the self in his understanding of reality. This
process is usually concluded when the child reaches the age of
four and the understanding of myself as “I” and the other as
“you” is the achievement of this early development. The fact
that in this process the God Representation is also developed
has been shown recently in a psychoanalytic study.
Transference and the “God Representation”
As a matter of fact even the concept of God, as it develops
in the child and matures in the adult falls into this
developmental category, as has been described by Ana-Maria
Rizzuto, M.D., in her book The Birth of the Living God,4 where
she follows the psychoanalytic thoughts of Freud and extends
and surpasses his idea about the concept formation of God in
the child and adult, coming basically to similar conclusions as
this author. She wrote in the epilogue of her book:
In the end I had to disagree with Freud — but not
totally: only with one Freud, the one of science,
intellect, and reality, the Freud who said; “No, our
science is no illusion, but an illusion it would be to
suppose that what science cannot give us we can get
elsewhere.”
The Freud who believes that man lives on the bread of
knowledge alone, I have to disagree with.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
However, I follow the other Freud, the Freud of object
relations, the Oedipus complex, family relations, until
through my research I arrive at one of his own
conclusions about some individuals in the Western
Word:
“The idea of a single great god — an idea which must be
recognized as a completely justified memory, ... has a
compulsive character: it must be believed.” [Freud 23, 130,
italics in the original]5
In a final corollary to the dissertation of this writer a similar
statement was made about transference and religion. Developed
over many decades this idea is now coming to the conclusion
that the transference concept is essentially connected to the
tetrarchic understanding of man.
The transference concept as a bridge between the individual
and collective aspect of man is the other side of the idea of this
concept as bridging the instinctual with cultural, which has

Freud’s Transference
been developed in the tetrarchic description of man. When we
combine these two polarities, between the instinctual and
cultural, between the individual and collective, we find
ourselves on familiar ground and can simply translate these into
the words of Ken Wilber, who talks about the inner and outer,
the individual and collective structure of man and of the world
in what he called the four quadrants as described before. The
four causes of Aristotle fit into this schema as well and are
included here in the picture.
Psychoanalysis has most intensively studied this relationship
between people, between the “I” and the “Thou”, between the
“Self” and the “Other”, and it was this relationship that has
been investigated by the Heidegger6 student and psychoanalyst
Hans Loewald, who made the following conclusion:
Our object, being what it is, is the other in ourselves
and our self in the other. To discover truth about the
patient is always discovering it with him and for him as
well as for ourselves and about ourselves. And it is
discovering truth between each other, as the truth of
human beings is revealed in their interrelatedness. While
this may sound unfamiliar and perhaps too fanciful, it is
only an elaboration, in nontechnical terms, of Freud’s
deepest thoughts about the transference neurosis and its
significance in analysis.7
This relationship between the individual and the collective,
between the self and the other was especially developed in the
psychoanalytic Object Relations Theory, which theory is
described by Otto Kernberg,8
Internalization of object relations refers to the concept
that, in all interactions of the infant and child with the
parental figures, what the infant internalizes is not an
image or representation of the other (“the object”), but
the relationship between the self and the other, in the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
form of a self-image or self-representation interacting
with an object-image or object-representation.
This internal structure replicates in the intrapsychic
world of both real and fantasized relationships with
significant others.
What needs to be stressed in this definition are two aspects
of this theory. First, what the infant internalizes is a psychic,
inner representation of the other and secondly that not the
other as a person, such as a father or mother, is represented,
but the relationship of the child to this person is what is
represented. It is the relationship, something not tangible,
something one could call spiritual, what is represented.
Consequently, in this relationship many other objects can be
included, such as the safety blanket, or a Teddy bear, which is
usually called a transitional object. Therefore, the child can
after this development, replace a real relationship with this
imaginary relationship. When the child at first relates to the
security blanket, it uses this learned introject to substitute for
the absent mother, and reduces anxiety that way. What below
will be stated about the God representation needs to be
understood in this special way.
In Birth of the Living God, Rizzuto describes in this context
the God representation and demonstrates it on four cases from
her psychoanalytic practice. She comes to the following
conclusions
The first elaboration of a God representation which we
can trace begins with eye contact between mother and
child ... between the ages of two and three. [Rizzuto 178]
She clearly understands this relation in the frame of the Object
Relations Theory when she says:
God is a special type of object representation created by
the child in that psychic space where transitional objects

Freud’s Transference
... are provided with their powerfully real illusory lives.
[Rizzuto 177]
Rizzuto demonstrated in her paper that the idea of the God
representation develops throughout the life of the patient.
Usually it matures and is improved, but in the special cases she
presented, she shows how the childish experience of the
relationship with the parents still influences the adult
understanding of God.
The psychic process of creating and finding God — this
personalized representational transitional object —
never ceases in the course of human life. [Rizzuto 179]
This original understanding of God is developed throughout
life, especially in all life crises, and it must change to be able to
support a mature believe in God.
God, as a transitional representation needs to be
recreated in each ... crisis to be found relevant for
lasting belief. [R. 208]
What Rizutto demonstrates and documents based on her
case material, is an important aspect of transference and its
sublimation. From the internal representation of the self and
the other, as postulated in the Object relation Theory, the
representation of God is derived. That really means that when
the child develops and understands him/herself in the polar
opposite to the other — the adult — the child develops at the
same time and in the same process the representation of
God, of a Transcendent and Ultimate Reality. This reality is
usually called God, but in an antireligious culture, or during its
further development even in a religious culture, other ideas can
be placed in this position. Such ideas are in a nationalistic
milieu the Nation or the Race, in a communistic ideology it is
the Proletariat. Leaders of totalitarian states are placed in the
same position like the Führer, Stalin or the Chairman Mao, all
of them were regarded as godlike persons and a godlike cult was

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
developed around them. In the same way, people who believe
that science is the answer to all questions will place scientific
progress into this position of absolute reality. All of these ideas
or personalities can take on the mantel of a religion, which
explains how these ideas can become attractive to people who
believe these ideologies.
The need to find an ultimate entity which is developed in
early childhood, when human relations are first established
between the self and the other, appears to be universal. It will
be transferred to all other future relationships, only its
application is varied. This was stated by the physicist Walker.
Everyone worships reality. Each person looks about
him, listens a moment — listens as long as life will let him
pause to listen — and then he falls down and worships
whatever it is that looks like this is what it is all about.
[p. 372]
Concluding it can be said: Transferences are the basis of all
human relationships and are the spiritual aspect of every
communication. Transference bridges the instinctual with the
spiritual in the individual and further explains the tradition of
this bridge of these polar opposite concepts of inwardness
(spirituality) and outwardness (materiality) from one generation
to the next and from one person to the other, as well as
between groups and individuals and between groups as well.
In this process one more element is developed, the need to
find an ultimate explanation, a transcendent idea or entity, or
even a personal reality which is traditionally called God. On the
other hand, individuals or even groups or cultures can utilize
any other idea that is transcending the concrete reality, any
other ideology to replace this representation, such as the
transcendent idea of State, of Nation, of Masses, and often of
Science replacing this original representation. In a more
primitive culture any totem, animal, the sun or even imaginary
entities that are connected to the natural processes, like ocean

Freud’s Transference
and heaven etc. can be used as this ultimate representation,
which would be called different gods in polytheistic cultures.
The psychological and sociological aspect of Religion can be
studied from this point of view and would certainly be able to
explain modern religiosity and irreligiosity from a new point of
view. All what is stated in the Bahá’í Writings about the need to
educate children describes the need to develop the original
perception of God and assure that the child is helped to develop
the original idea into a rational and informed idea of God and
not develop other substitute ideas, which replace the true
understanding and lead the growing up child in the wrong
direction.
Monotheistic religions will concentrate this development
onto their idea of the One God, but that does not exclude the
possibility of alternatives replacing this idea as substitutes,
which will be any other unifying idea of some highest reality,
like State, or Nation, or Race, or the Masses, which has
developed in modern societies. Even the regression of modern
man into the old polytheistic religions is possible today in Neo-
paganism. The psychological and sociological aspect of Religion
can be studied from this point of view and would certainly be
able to explain modern religiosity from a new point of view.
This introduction of the Freudian transference concept into
the philosophical and theological interpretation of the Bahá’í
Writings is surprising and unexpected. Nevertheless, it seems to
fit and it is even valuable and advantageous for the
understanding of the Bahá’í Writings, shedding new light at the
truth of the Revelation. What was found by Freud in his
analysis of people in mental trouble, and what he made to the
cornerstone of his therapeutic effort becomes through this
correlation with the Bahá’í Scriptures a valuable contribution
to both, to the understanding of the self of man and to the
better understanding of the very Writings which were
correlated with this Freudian concept.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
This conclusion about the value of correlation as presented
by Shoghi Effendi was described in McLean’s book is the fact
of the mutual benefit of correlation to both, to the
understanding of the Bahá’í Writings on the one hand and the
writings of philosophical and scientific thinkers on the other.
The method of correlation assumes that any truth
statement found outside the Bahá’í corpus illuminates
or augments truth statements found in the Bahá’í
teachings, just as the Bahá’í sacred writings illuminate or
augment the findings of other thinkers or systems of
truth.9
There is another issue that needs to be mentioned here, even
though a deeper study of this issue is still outstanding. It is the
question of where in the psychic apparatus as described by
Freud this transitional space is located. It is important to raise
this question, especially if this is the space where the God
representation in the human mind is located. Strictly following
the Bahá’í Writings the answer is not difficult when considering
these word of Bahá’u’lláh.
59. O SON OF BEING!
Thy heart is My home; sanctify it for My descent. Thy
spirit is My place of revelation; cleanse it for My
manifestation. [AHW 59]
But, O my brother, when a true seeker determineth to
take the step of search in the path leading to the
knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all
else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is the seat of the
revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the
obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the
allusions of the embodiments of satanic fancy. [KI 192]
Unlock, O people, the gates of the hearts of men with
the keys of the remembrance of Him Who is the

Freud’s Transference
Remembrance of God and the Source of wisdom
amongst you. He hath chosen out of the whole world
the hearts of His servants, and made them each a seat
for the revelation of His glory. [GWB 296]
It is the human heart that is the place of the God
Representation, this starts in the little child and needs to be
developed throughout life. That the heart is much more than a
medical blood pump has been demonstrated by the fact that in
heart transplants some basic, as well as, traumatic memories are
transplanted and can appear in the dreams of the new owner of
the heart. The new science of neurocardiology has proven
additionally that the heart has what has been called “the little
brain of the heart” as has been presented by this author in
Lights of Irfan before where the following quote was presented.
In the last twenty years, evidence has accumulated for
the presence of a functional heart brain — first
described as the “little brain of the heart.” From a
neuroscience perspective, the nervous system within the
heart, that is intrinsic to the heart, is made up of
populations
of
neurons
capable
of
processing
information independent of extra cardiac neurons.
This collection of neurons can sense alterations in the
mechanical and chemical milieu of various regions
throughout the heart. With every beat of the heart,
changes in heart rate and regional dynamic changes are
detected and transduced into neuronal impulses that are
processed internally. Such information is also sent to
neurons in the base of the brain via afferent axons in
the vagus nerve and to the spinal column neurons via
afferent axons in sympathetic nerves. This information
is returned via efferent neurons controlling the heart.
Furthermore,
circulating
hormones
influence
the
behavior of the little brain of the heart.10

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
That the heart has abilities that are different but parallel to
the abilities of the brain has been scientifically established.
Recent
work
in
the
relatively
new
field
of
Neurocardiology has firmly established that the heart is
a sensory organ and a sophisticated information
encoding and processing center. Its circuitry enables it
to learn, remember, and make functional decisions
independent of the cranial brain.11
From this evidence it can be concluded that what is revealed
in the Bahá’í Writings about the heart can be correlated with
findings of the science of neurocardiology, especially if we
consider two facts. One is that the heart does not have
consciousness, so what is going on in the heart is known only if
it becomes conscious in the brain. Another things is what we
know from our dreams, there is a different language in the
heart which has to be translated when what is in the heart gets
to be known by the brain.
This means that the God representation or the personal
knowledge about God is not an immediate fact of awareness,
and it has to be translated into the brain if it needs to become
known. Additionally, following again the Bahá’í Writings, the
heart must be pure and kind in order that the Revelation of
God is able to be recognized there.
For the life of the flesh is common to both men and
animals, whereas the life of the spirit is possessed only
by the pure in heart who have quaffed from the ocean of
faith and partaken of the fruit of certitude ... [KI 120]
Therefore this is the first advice given in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh:
1. O SON OF SPIRIT!

Freud’s Transference
My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and
radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient,
imperishable and everlasting. [AHW 1]
Placing the transference of Freud and the transitional place
of Winnicott into the heart opens up a new understanding of
psychology and the remarkable feature is the fact that heart and
brain work together, are united in many ways but have
oppositional characteristics, which become obvious under
different questions. Additionally in the heart is no awareness,
so all what we know about it directly is communicated by the
awareness of the brain, that functions like an interpreter
translating the language of the heart into the language of the
brain. These two languages are quite different. All the logical
conditions, contradictions etc. which are part of the language
of the brain cannot be expressed in the heart, as we know from
our dreams, where the rule of contradiction does not apply, and
contradictions can only be expressed in contradicting pictures
placed next to each other.
Considering all of these ideas, which are at this point only
speculative and are at best extensions and augmentation of
known facts, much work has to be done until these ideas can be
fully worked out. What can be said at this point without
exaggeration is that the understanding of psychology is at its
beginning and psychology is a scientific enterprise that has not
reached
full
understanding
today.
Since
these
new
understanding of the self and of the function of the heart were
first expressed in the Bahá’í Writings, such a psychology could
justifiably called a “Bahá’í Psychology.”

NOTES
1 Wolfgang Klebel; Transference and Culture, Towards a New
Understanding of this Concept of Depth-Psychology, Dissertation,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

Graduate School of Psychology, Fuller Theological Seminary, Pasadena CA
1976. (Abbreviated: Klebel 1976 page)
2 Freud, Sigmund, The complete psychological works of Sigmund Freud,
Standard Edition, London, Hogarth Press, 1966-1974, 24 volumes.
3 Confer Salman Akhtar, Comprehensive Dictionary of Psychoanalysis,
Karnac Books, Ltd. 118 Finschley Road, London, NW3 5HT, 2009 under
Object Relation Theory:
The term, coined by William Ronald Fairbairn (1943,1944) refers to a
set of psychoanalytic, developmental and structural hypotheses which
place the child’s need to relate to others at the center of human
psychological motivation. This is in contrast to the ‘classical’
psychoanalytic theory, which conceptualizes human motivation in
terms of instinctual tension and discharge. The main proponents of
‘object relation theory’ besides Fairbairn himself, include Michael
Belint, Donald Winnicott, Harry Guntrip, Masud Khan, John
Sutherland, Christopher Bollas and Patrick Casement. In North
America, there is a tendency to include the views of Maline Klein,
Elisabieth Jacobso, Margaret Maler and Otto Kernberg under the
rubric of ‘object relation theory’ as well..
4 Ana-Maria Rizzuto, M.D., The Birth of the Living God, The University of
Chicago Press, Chicago and London, 1979,
5 Ibid., page 212
6 Loewald studied philosophy with Martin Heidegger, who enormously
influenced him with his theory of language. To be fair it needs to be noted
that Loewald was very upset, when Heidegger joined the Nazi party and
being Jewish he left Germany.
7 Loewald, H. W., Psychoanalytic Study of Child, 1970, 25, 45-68,
“Psychoanalytic theory and the psychoanalytic process.”, page 65
8 International Dictionary of Psychoanalysis by Alain De Mijolla (Editor)
Publisher: Macmillan Reference USA; 1 edition 2005.
9 J.A. McLean, A Celestial Burning: A Selective Study of the Writings of
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust of India, F-3/6, Oklahoma
Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi- India. 110020 in the chapter
“Expanding Correlation: Seventeen Principles” p. 302 — 304.
10 J. Andrew Armour, MD., PhD., University of Montreal
“Neurocardiology, Anatomical and Functional Principles”. Published by
the Institute of HeartMath, Boulder Creek, California 95006, page 5 and
11 Rollin McCray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Appreciative Heart, The
Psychophysiology of Positive Emotions and Optimal Functioning,
Published by the Institute of HeartMath, 14700 West Park Ave., Boulder
Creek, California 95006, www.heartmath.org.

Procrustes’ Bed
The Insufficiency of Secular Humanism
Ian Kluge
Theme
The argument of this paper is that secular humanism’s
inability to accommodate the empirically established universal
presence of religion in human nature undermines secular
humanism’s claim to be a viable world-view for mankind. This
failure to live up to its self-proclaimed empiricism unleashes a
cascade of consequences that undermines its internal coherence,
diminishes its value as a rational argument and leaves the
arguments for theism untouched.
Part 1: Humanism and Secular Humanism
Perhaps the best and shortest definition of ‘humanism’ in
general is offered by philosopher Corliss Lamont, whose
Philosophy of Humanism states that humanism is “a philosophy
of which man is the center and the sanction.”1 All branches of
humanism are concerned with the dignity and worth of
humanity as a whole and each individual. They all emphasize
human existence in the natural world and in man as a ‘natural’
being; they place enormous value on the power of reason and
critical analysis; and they all stress free will and the power of
the individual to shape him or herself by their choices.
In general, there are two major types of humanism — theist
and non-theist. Theist humanism holds that it is essential to

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
acknowledge the existence of a Transcendent ‘being’ that is
absolutely independent from all knowable phenomena. The
reason is that no description of human life is complete or
accurate without reference to the Transcendent which may be a
personal being or a non-personal process such as ‘independent
origination’ in Buddhism, the Tao, Schopenhauer’s Will or
Tillich’s ‘ground of being.’ Humanity is both physical and
spiritual. In the contemporary West, theist humanism in its
Christian form is best represented by Jacques Maritain’s
“integral humanism.”2 However, there are forms of theistic
humanism which are not associated with any particular religion.
Karl Jasper’s existential philosophy is among them. According
to Jaspers, humans are always aware of something beyond
themselves and beyond nature because of their contingency and
their recognition that “man cannot be comprehended on the
basis of himself.”3 In other words, man’s existence cannot be
explained and understood strictly on the basis of human
existence. Jaspers calls this unknown which is both immanent
and beyond us ‘Transcendence’ when he wants to emphasize its
ontological ‘distance’ from us and as the “Encompassing”4 to
emphasize how it encloses us.
In this paper, our focus is ‘secular humanism’ or SH. Its
starting point is the rejection of any form of transcendent i.e.
supernatural being, in short, atheism. As Thomas Flynn states
for secular humanists, “humanism begins with rejecting the
transcendent as such.”5 From the denial of the transcendent, it
follows that the unaided human intellect, the ‘rational faculty’
as it is often called, is the most capable guide that we can
follow throughout life.”6 There is nothing else but reason to
rely on — and the efforts to deceive ourselves about this
situation only serve to hurt humankind and hinder its progress.
Religion is basically a product of ignorance about the workings
of the world and fear of death. Both of these can be overcome
by following the methods of rational science and by adopting
new attitudes towards human life.

Secular Humanism
SH exists in various forms but all share the absolute
rejection of transcendence though the reasons for that
rejection may differ. For example, Sartre’s existentialist
humanism7 bases its rejection on ethical grounds. If there were
a God, there could be no freedom and without freedom of
choice there can be no ethics. Even if God existed, we humans
must defy him in order to be free.8 This principle is based on
Sartre’s belief that “existence precedes essence,”9 i.e. that the
individual makes or ‘shapes’ himself through his choices and
that there is no human nature given to us ready-made by God.
On the other hand, Marxist humanism — based on Marx’s
economic and philosophic manuscripts of 1844 — rejects God
because God’s existence alienates man from himself by
estranging him from his positive attributes and above all, from
his work. Another example of SH is “democratic humanism”
which is based largely on the work of American philosopher
John Dewey who combined his belief in religious evolution, the
scientific method and his faith in American democracy to add a
uniquely American flavor to humanist thought.
Although the term ‘secular humanism’ originated in the
1930’s the roots of SH go back to ancient Greece. A number of
the pre-Socratic philosophers such as Thales, Democritus,
Protagoras and Heraclitus endeavored to explain the natural
world in terms of natural causes and not as results of divine
action. Thales, for example, tried to explain all natural
phenomena as permutations of a single substance — water —
and even outlined a basic theory of evolution. In short, these
philosophers sought natural not supernatural explanations for
the world around them. In more recent times, the growth of SH
also received a strong intellectual impetus from Ludwig
Feuerbach (d. 1872) who taught that the idea of God was a
chimera, a projection of humanity’s own attributes into a non-
existent super-natural realm. In short, God is a magnification
of humankind. Nietzsche re-enforced Feuerbach’s teaching by
proclaiming that God is dead.10 Nietzsche also strengthened the
naturalistic basis of SH by insisting that we must live and think

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
entirely within the limits of the natural world and that any
reliance on the super-natural was nothing less than betrayal of
ourselves.
In 1933, The Humanist Manifesto I listed ten major
principles of SH. Among them are the foundational SH
principles that
1. There is no God or any other supernatural being. The
universe is “self-existing and not created.”11
2. Man is part of “organic nature” and the body/mind or
body/spirit dualism must be rejected.
3. “Humanism asserts that the nature of the universe
depicted by modern science makes unacceptable any
supernatural or cosmic guarantees of human values.”12
4. “Religious Humanism considers the complete realization
of human personality to be the end of man’s life and
seeks its development and fulfillment in the here and
now. This is the explanation of the humanist’s social
passion.”13
5. There are “no uniquely religious emotions and attitudes
of the kind hitherto associated with belief in the
supernatural.”14
6. In the place of the old attitudes involved in worship and
prayer the humanist finds his religious emotions
expressed in a heightened sense of personal life and in a
cooperative effort to promote social well-being.15
In 1949, philosopher Corliss Lamont re-iterated these points
and clarified several features:
1. Humanism, having its ultimate faith in man, believes
that human beings possess the power or potentiality of
solving their own problems through reason and the
application of the scientific method.

Secular Humanism
2. Notwithstanding arguments from science or religious
doctrines of fatalism, human beings possess free will
within certain physical limits.
3. Humanism believes in an ethics or morality that grounds
all human values in this-earthly experience.
4. Humanism
believes
in
the
complete
social
implementation of reason and scientific method with
“Full freedom of expression and civil liberties.”16
In 1973, well-known SH philosopher Paul Kurtz published
The Humanist Manifesto II. This document strikes a more
charitable chord than its predecessor insofar as Kurtz
recognizes that religion has some positive aspects. However, he
re-affirms the foundational principles of the first Humanist
Manifesto and Lamont’s text by asserting that theism does “a
disservice to the human species.”17 He says,
In the best sense, religion may inspire dedication to the
highest ethical ideals. The cultivation of moral devotion
and creative imagination is an expression of genuine
“spiritual” experience and aspiration. We believe,
however, that traditional dogmatic or authoritarian
religions that place revelation, God, ritual, or creed
above human needs and experience do a disservice to the
human species. Any account of nature should pass the
tests of scientific evidence; in our judgment, the dogmas
and myths of traditional religions do not do so.18
Furthermore, Kurtz rigorously emphasizes that ethics do not
depend on religion or a belief in the Transcendent.
We affirm that moral values derive their source from
human experience. Ethics is autonomous and situational
needing no theological or ideological sanction. Ethics
stems from human need and interest.19

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
In the last analysis, “Reason and intelligence are the most
effective instruments that humankind possesses”20 because these
alone can serve our interests and needs.
In recent years, SH has been supported by the movement
known as the New Atheism. However, it must be made clear
that while all secular humanists are atheists not all new or old
atheists are necessarily humanists. Marxists, for example, are
not necessarily humanists even though they are atheists. The
same may be said of Sartrean existentialists. The New Atheists
have assisted SH by providing sharply worded critiques of
belief in God and of ethics and social theory based on
revelation as well as with arguments for the supremacy of
reason and science in human decision making.
Part 2: Procrustes’ Bed
Procrustes was an evil blacksmith and bandit in ancient
Greece who gained a horrible reputation for a bed he invented.
It was truly a ‘one size fits all’ affair. If you were too short, the
bed functioned as a rack which stretched you until you fit the
bed. If you were too tall, the bed worked as a chopping block
and cut enough off your feet and legs to make you fit. The
Greek hero Theseus ended Procrustes’ reign of terror by giving
him a night in his own bed.
The central thesis of this essay is that SH is a Procrustes’
bed. On one hand, it amputates whatever aspects of human
nature don’t fit its theory of man and on the other, it
unreasonably stretches the use of certain terms and concepts to
make up for the deficiencies caused by its amputations! Our
conclusion is, therefore, simple: SH’s view of humanity is not
true to its subject –humanity — and is, therefore, inadequate in
its world-view, in its understanding of mankind and as a guide
for the future.
Because SH is based on the rejection of all forms of belief in
the supernatural and the Transcendent21 it has insurmountable

Secular Humanism
difficulties in dealing with the global prevalence of religion
both in the past and in the present. As one puzzled author
states, “still, one wonders about the near-universality of the
human experiences and feelings that are called “spiritual.”22 The
best that SH can say is that whatever may have been good in the
past, religion is now a worthless and dangerous relic from
history. The problem here is obvious. The SH view is totally in
conflict with human nature as empirical scientific and historical
studies have found it. SH overlooks the full significance of the
empirical fact that religion is universal. We have never
encountered either directly or through historical records any
society that lacks religion or in which religion does not play a
major part in a society’s world-view, social organization, ethics
or law. This universality is irrefutable empirical evidence that
religiosity is an intrinsic attribute of human nature and that as
an intrinsic i.e. essential attribute, it cannot be removed
whether by education or intellectual dismissal or amputation.
Because it is an intrinsic part of human nature, religiosity
returns even when it is suppressed. As we shall see below, like
Freud’s famous “return of the repressed” or the famous cat who
came back when they thought it was a ‘goner,’ humanity’s
religious nature will always find ways to express itself. One of
my philosophy professors used to say, “When you kick God out
the front door, He comes in through the back window.”
More precisely, the universality of religion means that in one
way or another, all peoples share the same fundamental
ontology, i.e. theory of reality. In the most general terms,
reality has at least two aspects, the phenomenal/material world
and another, unseen reality whose presence is known by the
existence of contingent beings. This identical foundation
illustrates the Bahá’í teaching that “So shall we see the truth in
all religions, for truth is in all and truth is one!” [PT 137] They
start from the same ontological principle but, with the guidance
of the Manifestations, they develop the consequences
differently according to place, time and local conditions.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
This universal foundation means that as far as humanity in
general is concerned, nature is more than just material stuff. It
is more than just what we can apprehend with our physical
senses and we are more than just our physical bodies. ‘Behind,’
‘beneath’ and/or ‘beyond’ phenomenal reality, there is a non-
physical source or ‘ground of being’ that we perceive. As the
Bahá Writings say, “The signs of God shine as manifest as the
sun amidst the work of His creatures.” [GWB 143] How we
experience this unknowable entity or process ‘beneath’ the
physical and what it means varies from culture to culture over
time, but the principle is essentially the same everywhere.
We should add that contrary to the SH view that belief in a
super-natural ground of being is irrational, this belief is
exceedingly rational and reflects the scientific method. It
moves from empirical evidence i.e. the contingency of all
known things and the need for all contingent things to have a
cause and applies it to the phenomenal world. In other words, a
universal empirical observation leads to a conclusion about
phenomenal reality in general, namely, like all other things the
phenomenal world needs a cause. Implicit in this conclusion is
the understanding that whatever is the first cause or “Prime
Mover” [PM 262] cannot be like all other phenomenal beings
and, therefore, does need a cause need to be caused by anything
else. That is why God is the “Prime” Mover. The question,
“Who created God?” — often regarded by non-theists as a
definitive retort — results from a failure to understand the
difference between phenomenal or material reality and non-
phenomenal
and
non-material.
In
short,
the
question
exemplifies a logical category mistake.
Experientially, people intuit that there is more to reality than
what meets the senses and this ‘more’ is endless. Existentialist
philosopher Karl Jaspers refers to this ‘more’ of which people
are aware as “the Encompassing”23 which forms our horizon but
always “indicates something further which again surrounds the
given horizon.”24 This endlessly expanding series of horizons —
like boxes in a nested hierarchy — which begins with us in our

Secular Humanism
own personal concrete situations “announces the presence of
being”25 which is never directly encountered as a particular
thing (like a butterfly or a horseshoe) but whose presence is
always known through all things, situations and perspectives. It
is like the mysterious self in Hume’s philosophy: we cannot
identify ‘the self’ as a particular item in our stream of
consciousness, but it is implicitly present in our consciousness
of the stream itself.26 Our natural and inescapable awareness of
the Encompassing is what Jaspers means by the orientation to
Transcendence, an orientation to something that is behind or
beyond all natural phenomena. This orientation is the basis of
all religion, i.e. the sense that there is something ‘beyond’ what
appears to us is one of the things all religions and spiritualities
have in common. It is the ontological basis of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teaching of the essential one-ness of all religions because all
other forms of religion and all specific teachings are ultimately
based on this intuition of the Encompassing and the orientation
to Transcendence. As Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Bahá’u’lláh promulgated the fundamental oneness of
religion. He taught that reality is one and not multiple,
that it underlies all divine precepts and that the
foundations of the religions are, therefore, the same.
Certain forms and imitations have gradually arisen. [PUP
175]
In other words, religion grows from the intuition of the reality
beyond the phenomenal realm.
Humanity’s inherent orientation to Transcendence is so
strong that even societies adopting a militant atheist world-
view cannot escape it. Marxism provides a good example.
Shoghi Effendi describes it as a “religious irreligion.”27 The core
of Marxist ontology is the concept of dialectical materialism
which provides the ultimate justification for all other Marxist
teachings. It is the foundation principle of Marxism and asserts
that all phenomena including mind and thought are the
products of the inter-actional or dialectical processes of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
matter. This process is reality itself and the other process
described in historical materialism i.e. the history of mankind
and the economic and cultural superstructures are ‘add-ons.’
These
add-ons
include
religion,
social
organization,
government, law and art among other things.
It is not difficult to see that the process of dialectical
materialism corresponds to Jaspers’ “Encompassing” and
requires an orientation to Transcendence. The process is, in
effect, super-natural. It has four characteristics not found in
any other phenomena: (1) it is not limited in space, i.e. not
particularized and is ubiquitous; (2) it is not limited by time the
way all other phenomena are; (3) it is not dependent on the
existence of any other particular thing for its own existence;
and (4) it has logical priority over all phenomena, i.e. we cannot
think of any phenomena without implicitly pre-supposing the
existence of the dialectical process. Nothing else in nature
exists in this unique way — which, in effect, means the
dialectical materialist process is super-natural, i.e. beyond
nature. It encompasses everything and, therefore, transcends
everything. This shows how difficult it is to rid human thought
of the Encompassing and the orientation to Transcendence —
and this difficulty opens up the real possibility that this
orientation is a response to something real. It does not, of
course, prove that such a super-natural being i.e. God exists,
but it does leave that possibility as a rational option.
Given the implicit metaphysical implications of dialectical
materialism, it should be no surprise that after his 1920 visit to
Lenin in the Soviet Union such an astute observer as Bertrand
Russell said, “Bolshevism is not merely a political doctrine; it is
also
a
religion,
with
elaborate
dogmas
and
inspired
scriptures.”28 In A History of Western Philosophy, he lists
structural similarities between the structure of Marxism and
Christianity.29
Since all other Communist regimes have much the theoretical
principles and structure, Russell’s remark about the religious

Secular Humanism
nature of Soviet Communism applies to them as well. Given
Communism’s implicit orientation to Transcendence, it is not
surprising that even after seventy years of systematic atheist
indoctrination a sudden resurgence of religion occurs in Russia
and Eastern Europe. Furthermore, the persistent Chinese
interest in religion despite decades of repression shows how
deeply engrained this orientation is.
However, Marxism is not the only example of “religious
irreligion” as we observe in the pervasiveness of Ersatz or
substitute
religion.
They
preserve
the
orientation
to
Transcendence and even a feeling of the Encompassing. We can
observe this development in the incredible popularity of films,
novels, TV series and comics that are based on the supernatural.
Churches are emptying because more people find it easier to
offer “willing suspension of disbelief”30 to unconventional
forms of the supernatural than to God. Given the popularity of
entertainment about demonic possession and forces from hell it
seems many people find it easier to believe in the devil than
God. At the very least, they find it easier and/or more
meaningful to ‘play’ imaginatively with devils, witches,
werewolves, supermen with unearthly powers and magic than to
play imaginatively with saints, miracles and appearances of the
divine in the form of Manifestations. Perhaps the most obvious
example of this is the incredible popularity of the Harry Potter
books and films and all their imitators. In addition there are
those books that move in a gothic direction and even somewhat
satanic direction as seen in the Twilight series and its imitators
as well as in the vampire series by Anne Rice. In the popularity
of this literature of the supernatural we can still plainly discern
the orientation to Transcendence at work, i.e. the sense or
intuition that there is something else beyond, in or behind
reality although in this ersatz form, the ‘beyond’ evokes fear
rather than hope, inspiration and comfort. Moreover, the
‘encompassing’
aspect
of
the
transcendent
dimension
exacerbates our fears. Negative as these entertainments might
be, attraction to such phenomena is clearly an orientation to

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Transcendence, i.e. to something beyond the natural world.
This orientation has not been eradicated by the modern
scientific-materialist mindset but has simply changed its form
of expression.
The orientation to Transcendence is also evident in the large
numbers who describe themselves as ‘spiritual’ as distinct from
‘religious’ in an institutional sense. Such orientations can run
the gamut from a deep and profoundly moving appreciation of
natural beauty to the pursuits of New Age wisdom vis-a-vis
tarot cards, crystals, chanting and other spiritual practices.
Among women in particular we observe the resurrection of
Wicca which tends to seek the Transcendent below, in
mysterious earth-powers, than in what they would call ‘sky-
powers.’
Given the evidence presented above, it is difficult to resist
the conclusion that the orientation to Transcendence — the
basis of all religion — is far more widespread and far more
difficult to escape than we think. What conclusions may we
draw from all this? The universality of the orientation to
Transcendence and the Encompassing clearly says that it is an
essential attribute of humanity which cannot be eliminated — or
amputated — without denying human nature as such. It is not
an accidental attribute such as skin or hair color, education
level or wealth which can be removed or changed without
changing our fundamental identity as human beings. In other
words, the secular humanist goal of removing or amputating
the orientation to Transcendence seems highly unlikely to be
realized.
The
Bahá’í
Writings
refer
to
the
orientation
to
Transcendence in two ways. We see such a reference in Abdu’l-
Bahá’s statement that man has
two natures; his spiritual or higher nature and his
material or lower nature. In one he approaches God, in

Secular Humanism
the other he lives for the world alone. Signs of both
these natures are to be found in men. [PT 60]
Our “spiritual or higher nature” is oriented to God or
Transcendence, i.e. oriented to ‘something’ beyond the
phenomenal world. If this spiritual nature were lacking, we
would be entirely enclosed within our material limits like
animals which are “utterly lacking spiritual susceptibilities,
ignorant of divine religion and without knowledge of the
Kingdom of God.” [PUP 177] These “spiritual susceptibilities”
are the second way in which we are oriented to Transcendence.
He adds, “In the human kingdom spiritual susceptibilities come
into view, love exercises its superlative degree, and this is the
cause of human life.” [PUP 268] In other words, what
distinguishes humanity from animals is that humans have
“susceptibilities” i.e. a capacity for perceiving the spiritual
aspects of reality and a corresponding orientation to
Transcendence. These “susceptibilities” make us aware that
there is more to reality than the physical appearances that we
can perceive or that science can measure. However, this is not
to say that in the Bahá’í view we ought to neglect our physical
nature — only that it should be under the control of our
spiritual selves. He reminds us that “in the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh
monasticism and asceticism are not sanctioned.” [PUP 186] The
challenge for man is to make sure “his spiritual being and
intelligence man dominates and controls nature, the ruler of his
physical being.” [PUP 81]
In light of the foregoing discussion, it is reasonable to
conclude that SH simply does not present human beings as
given by the empirical evidence both from the past and the
present. By ignoring religion altogether, by diminishing its
importance or by attacking it as outmoded, useless and/or
dangerous, SH shows its inability to deal with humanity as we
find it. Its understanding of humankind is correspondingly
distorted and consequently its value as guidance for humanity is

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
limited. As we shall see below, some SH writers seem to be
aware of this problem and explore ways of remedying it.
Once this problem is recognized, another one arises. If SH
cannot deal with the empirically verified religiosity of mankind,
what happens to SH’s claim of being strictly guided by
empirical science and reason? Obviously it cannot stand. And if
that foundational claim is undermined, how strong is SH’s
commitment to other aspects of its program such as a rational
and scientifically based ethics and morality? This logical self-
contradiction seriously undermines its foundations and, by
extension, the credibility of many of its claims as a superior
world-view.
Indeed, these considerations revive an important ontological
question that undermines the SH project: if the orientation to
Transcendence and the Encompassing is universal, could it be
that this orientation corresponds to something real — just as
the eyes respond to the reality of light even though they cannot
see light itself? Since this orientation has survived such
momentous vicissitudes throughout its evolutionary existence,
it must have served humanity’s interests in surviving and
thriving. But how can it serve our survival interests if it is
completely delusional, utterly devoid of any relationship to
something real, and confusing to human thought and
understanding, if it needlessly drains our mental energies for
nothing? While these questions cannot prove that God or the
Transcendent exists, they are sufficient to put the issue of
God’s existence back on the table. Perhaps this is why Greg
Epstein does not try to disprove the existence of God but
argues that the concept of God is merely a “spandrel.”31 A
spandrel is “a phenotypic characteristic that is a byproduct of
the evolution of some other characteristic, rather than a direct
product of adaptive selection”32 This is implausible to say the
least. A universal phenomenon that consumes an enormous
amount of human physical and psychological energy and
resources cannot rationally be dismissed as an inessential “by-
product” of evolution. Such a Procrustean understanding of

Secular Humanism
religion illustrates the SH method of diminishing human nature
to fit the SH world-view.
Part 3: Why do Humans Need the Transcendent?
One of the key questions we must ask is how the orientation
to Transcendence and the intuition of the Encompassing affects
humanity. Does it make any difference if this orientation is
lacking, or, conversely, what positive value does the orientation
to Transcendence have in human lives? In this section we shall
explore some of the ways in which our lives are shaped by this
orientation and the awareness of the Encompassing.
In our view, the presence or absence of the orientation to
Transcendence has a profound effect on our understanding of
the nature of reality; on our self-understanding and self-
evaluation as human beings; on the purpose and meanings of
our lives; and on our ethics or legal systems. Whether this
transcendent entity is recognized as the Tao, or a personal God,
or a form of pantheism or panentheisim or the process of
independent arising makes no difference: the principle of
transcendence remains an essential part of understanding the
world and everything in it. No aspect of human existence is left
unaffected. We can verify this for ourselves by studying the
world-views of all cultures, their ethics and legal systems as well
as their art, stories and poetry and social structures.
On the SH view, existence has one — material — dimension
and there is absolutely no entity, will, process or authority to
direct our affairs except our own, either individually or
collectively. There is no other, super-natural will whose wishes
we must take into account. However, on the religious view,
existence is at least two dimensional — material and non-
material or spiritual — and there exists some kind of entity,
process or ground of being which has a will or nature or
authority which we must take into consideration. Our affairs
are not entirely in our own hands, starting with the human
nature with which we have been endowed. Contrary to Sartre,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
this does not mean that we are completely pre-determined since
the choice to struggle against our human nature or work with it
is a matter of free will. As Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Some things are subject to the free will of man, such as
justice, equity, tyranny and injustice, in other words,
good and evil actions; it is evident and clear that these
actions are, for the most part, left to the will of man.
[SAQ 248]
The SH view is a form of reductionism i.e. the viewpoint
that everything about human beings can, in the last analysis, be
reduced to physical and bio-chemical processes and that these
physical processes completely describe human nature. If we
reject the intuition of the Encompassing and the orientation to
Transcendence, we shall be forced to understand ourselves
completely as material beings subject to all the laws and
limitations to which matter is subject. We have to understand
ourselves as nothing more than bio-chemical processes In our
times, this requires us to accept a scientific understanding of
the world and of ourselves — which leaves no room for the
existence of a soul, of free will, life after death or even
objective morals. In this one-dimensional life-world everything
about us can — at least in principle — be explained in
measurable material and physical terms. Even mind and thought
are reduced to and fully explained by brain function. The
contemporary term for this conflation of brain and mind is
“identification theory.”33 Consequently, we would agree with
Pierre Cabanis that “The brain secretes thought like the liver
secretes bile.”34 The fact that we possess consciousness or, as
Pascal points out, that we are a “thinking reed”35 does not
endow us with any special value if thoughts are mere physical
secretions or bio-chemical reactions in the brain. On the SH
view, we are clearly trapped in an ontological, one-level
flatland from which there is no escape. This leads to a number
of problems that highlight the insufficiency of SH in meeting
the needs of humankind.

Secular Humanism
The problem is that human beings do not experience or
understand themselves as mere physical processes — and resist
doing so. That does not prove that humans are nothing but
chemistry but it does show how SH is out of touch and
insufficient to explain why humans instinctively cling to
concepts like ‘self’ or ‘soul’ and find them necessary to
function successfully. It is difficult to build a successful world-
view as SH is trying to do when it denies (1) the universality of
religion and (2) the way people universally experience
themselves as more than material and as having free will. SH
simply does not practice empiricism consistently. The following
thought experiment demonstrates that we do not experience
ourselves as purely material beings. If I had a super-computer
that could tell you everything about your current condition, i.e.
physical;, emotion, intellectual etc. would you agree that the
resulting print-out “is you”? If the super-computer added all the
information about your past history and even family history,
would the print-out “be you”? If we added all the emotions,
fleeting thoughts, dreams, shameful secrets etc. would the
resulting print-out “be you” or sum you up? In over thirty years
of teaching I have never encountered a single person who would
seriously accept a computer-print out of any size as being him
or her. Here, too, we see — as Hume did — that the self cannot
be reduced to or identified with all the data we can collect but
remains stubbornly mysterious and irreducible. The self is
more, and most, if not all, humans intuit this quite readily. Any
philosophy — such as SH — which undermines or denies i.e. in
effect amputates this understanding of ourselves as being more
than empirical data is inevitably an insufficient view of human
nature.
Another aspect of human nature that must be amputated in
SH’s Procrustes’ Bed is the sense of the intrinsic value of
humankind. On the basis of its own adherence to the scientific
method and principles, SH cannot avoid the conclusion that as
mere bio-chemical processes among all the others, humanity has
no intrinsic value. Indeed, nothing and no one has because,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
from a scientific perspective, matter itself does not have
intrinsic value which can be objectively proven. If there is no
such intrinsic value in human beings, then it follows that any
claims about human value are external attributions — or if wish
— rabbits pulled out of a hat. They are conventions which can
be unmade as easily as made; they are not inherently necessary
and essential. In the end, it is simply a matter of external
circumstances and the accidents of history.
A consciousness informed by the knowledge that it has no
intrinsic value and what whatever value it has is a mere social
convention is substantially different than a consciousness
informed of by a sense of intrinsic value based on a
Transcendent entity, or by the will of God. The consciousness
informed by knowledge of its connection to the Transcendent
also has a sense of the ‘ontological rightness’ of its existence.
Ontological rightness means that our intrinsic value is not
merely an externally attached attribute from man-made
conventions but is ontologically grounded in ‘something’ that is
independent of time, space and matter and which “announces
the presence of being”36 in every particular thing. Each one of
us is linked with the independent and eternal ground of being
and that gives our existence an undeniable legitimacy and value.
In religious terms, we are ‘necessary’ in a deep ontological sense
because “God loves all”. [PUP 267] What God chooses to love
cannot be worthless or existentially illegitimate. The Bahá’í
Writings express this in the following statement from
Bahá’u’lláh:
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent
testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light.
[GWB 177]
The basis of our being and our ontological rightness and
intrinsic value as creations of God could not be more clearly

Secular Humanism
established.
Abdu’l-Bahá
describes
humanity
as
the
“consummation of this limitless universe with all its grandeur
and glory hath been man himself.” [TAF 13] There is no question
of intrinsic value and ontological rightness here, not of dignity,
and even cosmological importance:
For the noblest part of the tree is the fruit, which is the
reason of its existence. If the tree had no fruit, it would
have no meaning. Therefore, it cannot be imagined that
the worlds of existence, whether the stars or this earth,
were once inhabited by the donkey, cow, mouse and cat,
and that they were without man! This supposition is
false and meaningless. [SAQ 196]
Humanity’s intrinsic value and ontological rightness could
not be established more clearly. The ontological rightness of
human kind is based on our necessary, our essential place and
role in the order of creation. The tree exists to produce fruit
and thereby the fruit justifies the existence and struggles of the
tree. Abdu’l-Bahá’s metaphor tells us that humans are “the
reason of [the universe’s] existence” as the culmination and
highest expression of the powers inherent in the universe. That
is why he states,
Man is the microcosm; and the infinite universe, the
macrocosm. The mysteries of the greater world, or
macrocosm, are expressed or revealed in the lesser
world, the microcosm. [PUP 69]
However, there is another way in which consciousness
informed by a sense of ontological rightness and intrinsic value
differs from a consciousness informed by ideas about man-
made conventions as the basis of its value. This concerns what
psychologist Eric Erikson calls “basic trust” which is necessary
for the complete and healthy development of any human being.
In the individual, basic trust is primarily developed in
relationship to the mother; to one degree or another, this trust
— or lack of it — forms the basis of our relationship to the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
world and our world-view which shapes our thoughts and
actions. For example, our basic existential stance towards
reality could be fearful, suspicious, trusting, appreciative or
grateful or even mixtures of these. In our view this happens at
the collective level as well. A world-view asserting that man is a
by-product and chance-development of a fortuitous cosmic
process without any purpose or meaning and likely to end in a
universal ‘heat death’ or a ‘big crunch’ is unlikely to inform a
sense of basic trust in the cosmos and in humanity and
existence in general. Such a world-view is far more likely to
generate a sense of cosmic mistrust or even despair which in
turn undermines the sense of ontological rightness and
mankind’s intrinsic value, dignity and importance. These values
may be asserted by man-made philosophies such as SH but in a
universe in which everything exists as a result of chance and has
no guiding purpose, such assertions inevitably sound hollow
and cannot inspire enduring trust. They sound an awful lot like
whistling in the dark.
Furthermore, there is nothing in the SH philosophy that
actually addresses this vital issue of ontological confidence. In
other words, SH cannot inspire the ontological confidence in
ourselves or in our species that is at least possible in world-
views that possess an orientation to Transcendence and an
intuition of the Encompassing. The inner conceptual resources
are simply not there to do so; there is no basis from which to
develop such basic trust and ontological confidence. This
cannot help but undermine our view of humanity itself. Why
should one bio-chemical process be intrinsically superior to any
other? Does it matter more if a person or a tree dies? It is not
difficult to see how materialist answers to such questions could
lead to the de-valuing of mankind and denial of its intrinsic
value or cosmic purpose. Of course, SH does not overtly hold
such a minimalist or even depressing view of humankind — nor
does it intend to. Indeed, quite the opposite: it strives to
develop a positive outlook on humanity. The problem is that it
undermines
its
own
optimism
because
its
conceptual

Secular Humanism
framework — especially its uncritical view of science — brings
these questions to the fore and fails to answer them adequately,
i.e. logically on the basis of its own conceptual framework.
Let us examine more closely why SH’s conceptual framework
undermines its overtly stated optimism. If human beings have
no intrinsic value, then the very foundations of all ethical
systems has been removed. After all, the whole point of
establishing rules by which to treat people in certain ways is
that humans have some intrinsic value that must be respected
and preserved. If we try to find our values by turning to nature
or the scientific method, a serious difficulty, known as Hume’s
Guillotine, arises. Hume’s Guillotine points out that we cannot
logically get from a fact or a description of a fact to a
prescription for what we are obligated to do. There is no bridge
from ‘is’ — a description of what is the case — to ‘ought’ — a
prescription to what ought to be or should be the case. For
example, just because it is the case that Jane cooks supper every
night does not mean she ought to cook supper or is obligated to
cook supper every night. The plain fact of her cooking does not
contain a moral obligation to cook in the future. The reason
for this is simple: facts alone just are. To confuse a description
of a fact with a prescription to do a certain act is to commit a
logical error known as a category mistake which means that we
are mixing up completely different kinds of things as we do,
for example, when we compare apples to horse shoes. Facts do
not contain any intrinsic obligations. The problem of Hume’s
Guillotine seriously undermines SH’s claim that empirical
knowledge alone is sufficient for ethics to guide man. From
that perspective, SH is completely insufficient.
In contrast, the Bahá’í world-view inspires trust in the
cosmic processes because values are intrinsic in all things as
creations of God.
This composition and arrangement [the universe],
through the wisdom of God and His preexistent might,
were produced from one natural organization, which

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
was composed and combined with the greatest strength,
conformable to wisdom, and according to a universal
law. From this it is evident that it is the creation of
God, and is not a fortuitous composition and
arrangement. [SAQ 181 emphasis added]
In short, creation has order and purpose. This belief
strengthens the orientation to Transcendence and the intuition
of the Encompassing which in turn inspires us to develop our
individual and collective “spiritual susceptibilities.” To one
degree or another (depending on their place in the order of
progressive
revelation)
all
religions
develop
these
susceptibilities which in turn informs a consciousness that is
positive in its outlook and confident in action. In short, it
provides a positive existential stance to the world. Those
inspired by Bahá’u’lláh — or by other Manifestations — share
this positive existential stance and consciousness and
shall labour ceaselessly, by day and by night, shall heed
neither trials nor woe, shall suffer no respite in their
efforts, shall seek no repose, shall disregard all ease and
comfort, and, detached and unsullied, shall consecrate
every fleeting moment of their lives to the diffusion of
the divine fragrance and the exaltation of God’s holy
Word. Their faces will radiate heavenly gladness, and
their hearts be filled with joy. Their souls will be
inspired, and their foundation stand secure. [SWAB 251]
Furthermore, the Bahá’í Writings and theist ethics in general do
not suffer from the ‘is/ought’ problem. Since God is the
Creator of nature, all natural facts are already implicitly
endowed with value, meaning and potential ethical significance.
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent

Secular Humanism
testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light.
[GWB 177]
In other words, there is more to all created things than can
be known by strictly empiricist analysis. We have already seen
this with the unsuccessful attempts to reduce ‘self’ or ‘soul’ to
purely objective knowledge. From a Bahá’í perspective, all
things have spiritual aspects that are known only to those who
have experienced “the awakening of spiritual susceptibilities.”
[PUP 339] Everything reflects spiritual values and consequently,
there is no logical category mistake of jumping from fact to
value in basing an ethical argument on natural facts. The facts
already embody ethical categories as seen in the names and
attributes of God. For example, the virtue of generosity is
embodied in every created thing insofar as it ultimately exists
by the generosity of God Who brought it out of nothingness.
[GWB 61] Generosity is moral primarily because it is in harmony
with God’s will. The various advantages it brings to individuals
and collectives are also valuable, but by themselves they do not
establish the moral goodness of the act. Only being in harmony
with God’s will can do that. As Bahá’u’lláh says,
The source of all good is trust in God, submission unto
His command, and contentment with His holy will and
pleasure ... The source of all evil is for man to turn away
from his Lord and set his heart on things ungodly. [TB
153-155]
In other words, no action or goal can be good if it does not
harmonize with or “submit” to God’s commands; conversely,
any action or goal that contradicts God’s command is evil.
Unlike SH ethics, Bahá’í ethics have within themselves the
conceptual resources to bridge the gap between ‘is’ and ‘ought.’
The presence of God’s names and attributes performs this
function. Consequently, Bahá’í and theist ethics have not only
self-sufficiency but also coherence, i.e. there is no necessary
conceptual gap between empirical facts and valuations. Indeed,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
the Manifestation of God bridge this gap even more directly
and clearly insofar as they are the Beings that guide our
understanding of the facts to the correct moral conclusions.
This feature is also missing in SH ethics.
It is important to state that we do not wish to impugn the
moral sincerity of secular humanists on the issues of ethics and
the valuation of mankind. They are as sincere as anyone else on
both counts — but that is not the problem. The serious
deficiency of their high views of humankind is that it has no
basis whatever in SH’s empirical, scientific world-view. These
high views are, in effect, rabbits pulled out of a hat, add-ons
unrelated and unrelatable to the scientific method: from a
strictly scientific view, secular humanists are not entitled to
these high ethical views. They cannot be established by science
and they obviously come from somewhere else, perhaps secular
humanists’ emotions or perhaps from the religiously shaped
cultural atmosphere in which most of them grew up and live.
However, what matters from our perspective is simply the
observation that SH is absolutely insufficient in establishing its
valuation of man and its ethics on a strictly rational and
scientific basis.
This is no small matter. It may be argued that even with a
concept of the intrinsic values of humans, religions have not
always treated people decently. This is unquestionably true but
there is still an important difference between SH and the
religious world-view. Because of its ontology, religion has
internal self-corrective resources available when it goes awry
i.e. it can still refer back to its ontology and the resulting
philosophy of man and correct course. Whether or not it always
does so is a different issue. However, what is clear is that SH
has no such inner self-corrective resources due to the
limitations of its materialist ontology and strict adherence to
the scientific method. All that SH can do is replace one set of
conventions with another set of conventions; moreover, it
makes our value an extrinsic issue and weakens us because we
are completely dependent on others. In an age that has

Secular Humanism
witnessed the ravages of totalitarian regimes SH does not seem
to have a sufficient ontological foundation for the intrinsic
value of human beings. It seems clear that the SH materialist
ontology which makes intrinsic value impossible will has a
difficult task ahead if it aims to instilling the deepest possible
confidence and appreciation in the ontological rightness of our
existence as human beings. Yet this is exactly what it must do if
it wishes to present an effective program to replace religion in
the life of mankind.
Part 4: Procrustes’ Bed as a Rack
For the unfortunate overnight guest at Procrustes’ motel
who was too short for his bed, Procrustes added a racking
mechanism that would let him stretch the guest until he fit the
bed
perfectly.
Precisely
because
they
amputated
the
transcendent aspects of human existence, secular humanists
find themselves forced to make use of its stretching functions
in order to make up for the lack of deep significance or
gravitas in man-made concepts. A concept based on human
thought and social approval simply cannot attract the esteem
and reverence inherent in concepts based on the Transcendent.
The reason is obvious: it is hard, if not impossible, to feel that
ideas produced by a creature that is the chance result of an
absolutely random, purposeless and meaningfulness universe
have the same gravitas as ideas from or inspired by or
connected to the eternal ground of being. To overcome this
gaping difference, to make its ideas adequate or fitting to
human needs, SH tries to stretch its concepts to make them
appear as adequate to the needs of human nature.
The vital importance of this ontological grounding — or lack
of it — is recognized by the foremost spokesman for SH in
North America, Paul Kurtz, who writes,
the central issue about moral and ethical principles
concerns their ontological foundation. If they are

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
neither derived from God nor anchored in some
transcendent ground, are they ephemeral?37
The Bahá’í Writings answer Kurtz’s question about
ephemerality in the affirmative. Because they are not grounded
in the Transcendence or in the teachings of the Manifestation,
purely secular philosophies have no endurance. Abdu’l-Bahá
states
The philosophers who claimed to be the educators of
mankind were at most only able to train themselves. If
they educated others, it was within a restricted circle;
they
failed
to
bestow
general
education
and
development. This has been conferred upon humanity by
the power of the Holy Spirit. [PUP 205; cf. PUP 400]
Kurtz recognizes that without a basis in a “transcendent
ground” ethical systems, the viability of SH ethics — and with it
the whole SH program — is questionable and in that sense, not
sufficient for human needs. The reason is that all ethical
systems are implicitly or explicitly based on an ontology, i.e. a
theory of reality which allows us to justify their teachings as
objectively real because they are based the nature of reality
itself. However, SH’s ontology rejects any version of
transcendence as a basis of its world-view and consequently
must rely exclusively on reason and science. This creates two
problems. First, as we have already seen, because of Hume’s
Guillotine empirical facts alone cannot lead to moral demands;
a description cannot logically be used as a prescription without
making a logical category mistake. Furthermore, science cannot
be a basis of values because values are not proper objects of
scientific research. Things that are appropriate subjects of
scientific research must meet the following criteria: (1) are
physical/material; (2) are susceptible to empirical direct or
indirect observation by the humans senses or instruments; (3)
are measurable or quantifiable; (4) are results of repeatable
experiments or observations; (5) are observer independent and

Secular Humanism
(6) are disprovable or falsifiable by observation and/or
experiment. These criteria, which are the basis of the scientific
method, show that ‘values,’ ‘moral judgments,’ ethical beliefs
cannot be determined by science. Science may provide
information which we might consider in making ethical
decisions but the actual ethical aspect of judgment must come
from beyond the facts themselves, either human reasoning or
divine revelation or some combination of the two. This
situation is easy to illustrate with a simple question: how could
a scientific experiment prove that stealing, adultery and murder
are morally wrong? Science can point out the damage this does,
but then, what experiment could prove that doing such damage
morally wrong? What if I don’t care about the damage as long
as I get my way or get pleasure? In the end we will be left with a
stack of psychological, sociological and economic facts, none
of which can tell why me I shouldn’t be ‘bad.’
Kurtz’s starting point for SH morals is what he calls the
“common moral decencies”38 which he claims are accepted by all
cultures. Among them are truthfulness; promise-keeping;
trustworthiness; sincerity; honesty; justice; tolerance and
cooperation; good will; sexual consent and fairness. These, he
believes are inherent in human nature and in our situation as
social beings. In his view, without these “common moral
decencies” any society is unworkable and will disintegrate.
Consequently, he feels they are acceptable everywhere.
The first serious problem is that Kurtz, like all utilitarians,
fails to distinguish between the useful and the moral. Useful
behaviors are not necessarily morally good. The useful and the
good are different logical categories and for that reason cannot
be conflated, as Kurtz, and, indeed, all utilitarians do. For
example, take the hospital room scenario. In a hospital, five
dying people could be saved by a transplant of a different
organ. A lightly injured young man arrives and the chief
surgeon decides to give the dying five patients his young,
healthy organs. By doing so he achieves a utilitarian goal —
saves five lives — and achieves the utilitarian maxim of “the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
greatest good for the greatest number.” However, while one
can argue for the sheer practicality of the surgeon’s solution, it
is not possible to argue his actions are moral. The judgment
that an act is morally good and not merely useful cannot come
from the empirical facts themselves — as we have seen with
Hume’s Guillotine.
Hume’s Guillotine and the scientific method make it clear
that no matter how useful an action may be, the promotion
from being useful to being morally good cannot be based on
mere empirical evidence. The same is true for the promotion of
values — such as being thoughtful, educated or polite — to
being moral values or obligations. To be promoted from being
useful or valuable, we need something more, something not
merely empirical and, thereby, subject to Hume’s Guillotine.
There are only two remaining choices from which derive that
‘something extra’. One is social convention and the other is our
orientation to Transcendence and the Encompassing. Humanity
has used both, usually turning to the Transcendent to decide
what is or is not moral and using social convention to enforce
those decisions.
In theory at least, Kurtz recognizes the potential importance
of the Transcendent when he asks, “If they [our moral
principles] are neither derived from God nor anchored in some
transcendent ground, are they ephemeral?39 The flip side of his
question is, ‘Can morals based strictly based on empiricism
endure?’ The Bahá’í Writings suggest the answer to Kurtz’s
question is negative. Abdu’l-Bahá states
Surely that which is founded through the divine power
of the Holy Spirit is permanent in its potency and
lasting in its effect.
Material brotherhood does not prevent nor remove
warfare; it does not dispel differences among mankind.
But spiritual alliance destroys the very foundation of
war, effaces differences entirely, promulgates the

Secular Humanism
oneness of humanity, revivifies mankind, causes hearts
to turn to the Kingdom of God. [PUP 130, emphasis added]
In the first part of this quotation, Abdu’l-Bahá indicates that
spiritual and not material power will have “lasting effect,” i.e.
they will not be “ephemeral.” Then he provides specific
examples of what he means by contrasting “material
brotherhood” with “spiritual” brotherhood to the advantage of
the latter. The “spiritual brotherhood” is “lasting in its effects”
precisely because it is connect to or grounded in something
higher than mankind and its shifting advantages, interests and
vicissitudes.
Kurtz even points us to the answer to his question about the
ephemerality of values and morals not connected to the
Transcendence. He states that “the central issue about moral
and ethical principles concerns their ontological foundation.40
In other words, while he realizes the importance of the
“ontological foundation” of ethics, he rejects the notion of
Transcendence as the necessary foundation. He is ware that the
nature and structure of reality itself determines whether an
action is ethical. For example, if we believe that all of us were
born because we needed sharp punishment in our lives, then
making life easier for us would not be good — but hurting us
would be. The problem for SH is that its strict empiricist and
materialist ontology logically prevents it from making any
value judgments at all because of Hume’s Guillotine and the
limits of the scientific method. That being the case, the
“common moral decencies” Kurtz advocates can only be
grounded in human agreement and cannot have the same in-
depth foundation as ethics rooted in something that is eternal
or timeless, that is not limited by time and space, that is
independent of all phenomenal things and that is the ground or
producer of all phenomena. In short, his advocacy of these
“common moral decencies” lack gravitas.
In his attempt to make the “common moral decencies” into
the basis of SH ethics in particular and the SH program in

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
general, Kurtz stretches or exaggerates their viability and
sturdiness to give them a gravitas that cannot be justified in
terms of the SH empiricism and naturalism. This problem in
internal coherence undermines the ability to justify its
conclusions rationally and, thereby, to justify its gravitas. The
‘gravitas’ of any world-view or ethical system refers to how
seriously we must take it on the basis of its (1) internal logical
coherence, (2) its ability to connect to human beings as we
know they are and have been in the past; (3) its ability to engage
people’s “ultimate questions”41 at the emotional, intellectual
level and spiritual levels; and its (4) the issues of legitimacy,
authority and universality. In the foregoing discussions, we
have already seen that SH is weak vis-à-vis internal logical
coherence and we shall see more evidence to this effect below.
We have also seen that in its inability to accommodate
humanity’s universal orientation to Transcendence, SH fails to
deal with humans as we find them now and in the past, thereby
undermining its claims to empiricism as well as its usefulness as
a world-view and guide. This failure also reveals SH’s short-
comings vis-à-vis the ultimate questions that all cultures answer
regarding the nature and make-up of reality and the nature and
purpose of humanity. The orientation to Transcendence and the
intuition of the Encompassing are essential aspects of the
answers to “ultimate question.” It is impossible for a
philosophy that rejects or neglects the answers to these ultimate
questions to claim the gravitas to be an effective guide for
most of mankind. Its concepts cannot reach that far.
The next insufficiency of SH in regards to gravitas concerns
the foundational question of legitimacy which deals with three
questions: (1) Who or what — if anything — has the universal
knowledge, and the understanding of humanity to legitimize or
warrant laying down moral principles and precepts for the
human race? (2) Who or what — if anything — has the
knowledge, understanding and goodness necessary to legitimize
a demand for obedience? (3) Who — or what — is inherently
entitled to make obedience a condition for attaining ‘rightness,’

Secular Humanism
or true value and appropriate worth as a human being?’ These
questions must be answered in a satisfactory manner for claims
to legitimately to win acceptance in society.
It is self-evident that humans lack such inherent legitimacy.
Not only are human individuals fallible but they also lack the
unlimited knowledge and insight needed to achieve full
understanding of any situation and therefore, cannot dispense
perfect justice and compassion among the complexities of
existence.
Humans
are
often
fickle;
consciously
or
unconsciously pursuing personal advantage; they lack absolute
independence from all things, i.e. are susceptible to outside
influence, interference and coercion. Humans cannot guarantee
objectivity and “equity.” [GWB 203] These facts about human
nature lead to an almost self-evident question: Given the
frailties of human nature, how can any human pronouncements
attain the legitimacy needed to win acceptance as moral
standards? The problem with SH is that it has no answer to this
fundamental question — at least no answer the vast majority of
people are willing to accept. Therefore, instead of abandoning
the orientation to Transcendence they have experienced for
themselves, people chose to build their world-views on ethics
on this orientation and their intuition of the Encompassing.
Being good ‘spiritual empiricists’ they built on their actual
experience rather than on other people’s theorizing. We may
not agree with this choice, but it is not as irrational as SH often
makes it out to be.
Indeed, the choice is logically straight forward once we have
accepted our orientation to the Transcendent and intuition of
the Encompassing. God or any transcendental being is not only
unaffected by the aforementioned human deficiencies, but He
is also the actual maker of the world and the nature of
everything in it. Given His knowledge, it is difficult to imagine
who else could have genuine ethical legitimacy since His
guidance is the only reliable guide to ‘the good.’ This choice has
fewer rational impediments than the SH alternative and so,
from that perspective, is eminently rational.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The second aspect of gravitas is the question of power.
Without legitimacy, power is tyranny but without power,
legitimacy is impotent. Thus, to see how legitimacy is actually
put into practice we must ask (1) ‘Who — if anyone — has the
power necessary to truly enable people to follow these rules
despite their short-comings and weaknesses?’ (2) ‘Who — if
anyone — has the power to impose His will and His ethical
judgments on humankind? (3) ‘Who — if anyone — can impose
both obligations or laws and consequences for committed or
omitted acts?’ It is important to understand precisely what
these questions mean. There is no doubt that various human
powers — for example, societies, priests, ideologies, leaders of
thought — will try to answer these questions for themselves and
that some of them will have a degree of worldly success.
However, as we have already seen from Abdu’l-Bahá, this will
not be “lasting in its effect.” [PUP 130] The Transcendent alone
has this power in an ultimately real sense, and though it does
not manifest its powers in ways we can easily understand, in the
end, the Transcendent will prevail. This underlying confidence
and certainty is one of the reasons religions are associated with
all cultures and ethical systems.
The third aspect of gravitas is ‘universality.’ Here, the most
fundamental question is, ‘Is there such a thing as a universal
human nature?’ Answering this will tell us whether the limits of
authority are defined by time, culture, economics or political
ideology. Both the Bahá’í Writings and SH answer this question
affirmatively insofar as both believe that a universal ethical
standard follows from a universal human nature. Such a
universal human nature is presupposed in Kurtz’s “common
moral decencies.” The significant difference between the Bahá’í
Writings and SH is that the Writings believe that humans need
the inspiration and guidance of the Manifestation to actualize
our moral potentials.
Because postmodern philosophy has made the concept of a
universal human nature so controversial in the last thirty years,

Secular Humanism
it is important to show how the Writings unequivocally support
this principle. For example, Abdu’l-Bahá says,
When we observe the human world, we find various
collective expressions of unity therein. For instance,
man is distinguished from the animal by his degree, or
kingdom. This comprehensive distinction includes all the
posterity of Adam and constitutes one great household
or human family, which may be considered the
fundamental or physical unity of mankind. [PUP 190,
emphasis added]
God has created human nature as it is, and the teaching of
the oneness of humankind affirms that this nature is universal
even though different cultures may actualize different aspects
at different times. The teaching of the oneness of humankind
starts with the “physical unity of mankind.” Furthermore, all
humans possess a “human spirit which distinguishes man from
the animal [this] is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one thing.” [SAQ
208] Regardless of culture, time, place or circumstance, all
people share one human nature because they have a rational
soul. We also share a higher, spiritual nature and a lower animal
nature which the higher nature must control. [SAQ 118] In
addition, we all posses “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 339]
which must be cultivated in order to make spiritual progress
possible. Since there is a universal human nature, then it
logically follows that a universal ethic is possible, i.e. at least
some ethical rules apply to everyone at all times and in all
places. Since God is the creator of human nature, no one is
better qualified than God to establish what this ethic is.
Consequently, there are ethical standards valid across all
cultures, places, times and circumstances and that cross-cultural
moral judgments are possible. Shoghi Effendi writes,
He [Bahá’u’lláh ] insists on the unqualified recognition
of the unity of their purpose, restates the eternal

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
verities they enshrine, coordinates their functions,
distinguishes the essential and the authentic from the
nonessential and spurious in their teachings, separates
the
God-given
truths
from
the
priest-prompted
superstitions, and on this as a basis proclaims the
possibility, and even prophecies the inevitability, of
their unification, and the consummation of their highest
hopes. [PDC 107, emphasis added]
The core of this statement is that Bahá’u’lláh “restate[d] the
eternal verities” which means (1) that certain truths — including
ethical truths — are not bound to one time and (2) that these
“verities” which Bahá’u’lláh “restated” are the same as those
taught by previous Manifestations in other times and places.
Some of these resemble Kurtz’s “common moral decencies”
though this concept as presented by Kurtz lacks the sanction of
the Manifestations. His arguments fail to ‘stretch’ them or
provide sufficient gravitas. In effect, Shoghi Effendi confirms
a meta-ethical perennialism for those morals that are not
“priest-prompted
superstitions”
and
“nonessential
and
spurious.” His dismissive description of those religious
teachings that deviate from the “eternal verities” clearly de-
legitimates them. The underlying assumption is that the “eternal
verities” are suited to a universal human nature and what is best
therein. This suggests an important conclusion: ethical
relativism does not apply to the “eternal verities” or
“fundamental verities”42 but it applies to the superstructural
cultural adaptations. The former are universal and the latter are
particular.
It is also important to ask, ‘Can a man-made ethical system
claim to be universally valid for all human beings?’ On the basis
of the foregoing arguments, the answer is clearly negative: man-
made ethical systems lack gravitas in the form of legitimacy;
gravitas in the form of power, and gravitas in the form of
universality.

Secular Humanism
The latter is inescapably deficient in this regard is because
humans only have access to incomplete knowledge conditioned
by time, location and circumstances, and, therefore, cannot,
even in principle, have the insight into human nature to make
their knowledge universal. This limitation is recognized by all
systems of meta-ethics and is the source of much debate and
controversy. Various types of meta-ethical skepticism and
nihilism find their basis here.43 The fact that this deficiency still
causes so much debate suggests that emphatic denials to the
contrary, theistic meta-ethics cannot just be ignored.
Part 4.1: “Religion for Atheists”
Alain de Botton’s book Religion for Atheists is an attempt
to stretch the SH world-view to help it fulfill important
personal and social functions that SH amputated by rejecting
religion. Unlike the militant New Atheists like Dawkins, Harris
and Hitchens, de Botton recognizes that religions have fulfilled
very useful and worthwhile functions for humanity in the past.
He says that atheists can admit that
We invented religions to serve two central needs which
continue to this day and which secular society has not
been able to solve with any particular skill: first, the
need to live together in communities in harmony ... And
second, the need to cope with terrifying degrees of pain
... to trouble relationships, to the death of loved ones
and to our decay and demise ... God may be dead ... the
urgent issues which impelled us to invent him up still
stir and demand resolutions which do not go away when
we have been nudged to perceive some scientific
inaccuracies in the take of the seven loaves and fishes.44
To his credit, de Botton understands that religion was not
just irrational and fearful foolishness but an evolutionary
development answering deep human needs that are still with us.
Unfortunately, he fails to understand that an orientation to
Transcendence and the Encompassing are an intrinsic i.e.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
essential part of the answers to our human needs. Thus, he, too,
applies the amputating function of Procrustes’ Bed — which, in
turn, requires to make use of its stretching mechanism when
what remains is found to be inadequate for human needs.
Having recognized the positive function of religion, he
concludes,
The error of modern atheism has been to overlook how
many aspects of the faiths remain relevant even after
their central tenets have been dismissed. Once we cease
to feel that we must either prostrate ourselves before
them or denigrate them, we are free to discover religions
as repositories of a myriad ingenious concepts with
which we can try to assuage a few of the most persistent
and unattended ills of secular life.45
While we applaud de Botton’s open-mindedness, his secular
humanist suggestions for meeting humanity’s ‘spiritual’ needs
are no more than “ersatz” or feeble substitutes for the religious
originals he rejects. He wants the comforts and advantages of
the spiritual life without the ‘metaphysical’ or ‘super-natural’
baggage. In the last analysis, what he suggests is a form of
psychologism, i.e. a reduction of the spiritual and religious
states which includes recognition of Transcendence, to
psychological states. These mental states are purely subjective
and have no cognitive value beyond ourselves, i.e. they tell us
nothing about the world or transcendent realities. Whatever
value and meaning they have is assigned to them by us. In short,
their value is entirely arbitrary.
However, ‘genuine’ spirituality, i.e. spirituality as universally
understood as involving some reference to the supernatural is
excluded from de Botton’s SH world-view. His SH outlook
denies it is one thing to experience community with my
neighbors because I choose to value and appreciate them, and,
quite another to value and appreciate them because they each
exhibit the signs of God and are each an image of God. As
Abdu’l-Bahá says, “All the creatures are evident signs of God,

Secular Humanism
like the earthly beings upon all of which the rays of the sun
shine.” [SAQ 113] Appreciating one’s neighbor in the Bahá’í (or
religious) world-view has an ontological dimension that
connects the appreciation to God or to the Transcendent source
of all being and, thereby, provides what we have called
“ontological rightness” as well as gravitas. The SH version is
simply a personal, psychological response that has no value
beyond itself and certainly no transcendent guarantor. Yet the
universality of religion indicates that such a connection to the
Transcendent is precisely what human beings need and desire.
Let us examine one of de Botton’s examples. He points out
that churches are good places where strangers can meet
comfortably because all are recognized as children of God and
committed to serving Him and even spreading His faith. De
Botton’s answer to such a ‘safe space’ is the “Agape
Restaurant”46 where we are required to sit and eat with
strangers and, thereby, break the barriers between us instead of
merely
reinforcing
old
connections.
While
the
Agape
Restaurant is certainly a novel idea worth trying, it cannot
replace the spiritual connectedness rooted in the orientation to
Transcendence. Being a good dining partner cannot replace or
be an “ersatz” for being a child of God. Dinner in the Agape
Restaurant may arouse pleasant feelings and be very
informative, but the experience of deep spiritual kinship
through God is more than a good feeling but also a statement
about the ontological value of the other. In fact, it is difficult
not to find such a suggestion somewhat feeble insofar as it does
not comprehend what spiritually-based brotherhood is about.
By-passing some of de Botton’s more outlandish ideas for
ersatz institutions and rituals, let us examine his reflections on
the Virgin Mary. Devotion to her, he says, is valuable because it
allows us to “be weak in her presence,”47 to give free reign to
our most tender emotions, to recognize and embrace our
vulnerability. This is good for us because “atheists may neglect
the frailty that is an inevitable feature of all our lives.”48 They
need to cultivate their tender emotions. De Botton’s solution

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
to the callousness that might result from the atheist world view
are “Temples to Tenderness”49 These would use art — the great
sad Madonnas of Catholicism — as places to reconnect with
these softer aspects of ourselves, to learn about ourselves from
the perspective of helplessness, vulnerability, suffering and
tenderness. Once again, the problem is clear: an SH philosopher
is trying to stretch secular concepts to meet human needs by
eliminating their religious foundations. In the medieval
Madonnas, the Virgin Mary isn’t only another sad woman; her
sadness represents the sadness of God for the waywardness of
man because that, after all, is why God needed to incarnate
Himself through Her. Otherwise we could just reduce it all to
Bob Marley’s “No Woman No Cry” but that cannot give us the
transcendental comfort and solace we seek. It simply doesn’t
stretch that far. Once again, the vital ontological dimension
needed by humanity is missing.
There is no need to multiply examples to show how secular
replacements for useful religious customs are destined to
failure given humanity’s long demonstrated need for a
connection to the Encompassing. Like a baby blanket on an
adult bed, secular concepts cannot be stretched to cover the
transcendental needs which have demonstrably been a part of
human nature for at least 300,000 years.50 In the last analysis, de
Botton’s ersatz or substitute institutions and/or practices are
simply not the same kind of things as the religious institutions
and rituals they are designed to replace. As Christ says,
Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread,
will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give
him a serpent? [Matthew 7:9-10]
Although offered with the best intentions, de Botton’s
substitutes for transcendently based spirituality seems destined
to fail.
In Good Without God, Greg Epstein also explores the
strategy of establishing SH parallel institutions and practices to

Secular Humanism
replace their religious counterparts. Even his title at Harvard
University illustrates this: Humanist Chaplain. This title
summarizes his claim to show that the pastoral services
traditionally provided by chaplains or rabbis can be provided
equally well by secular humanists for whom “God is beside the
point.”51 He goes on to state, “The point of Humanism is not
whether or not a God exists, but whether we ought to worship,
fear or pray to it.”52 In this position, reminiscent of Sartre,
Epstein hopes to side-step the existence of God debate and
show how SH teachings can replace divine guidance, i.e. ethics
rooted in the Transcendent. Doing this will, as we shall see,
force him to stretch some of his concepts to the point of
untenability. There is no way to side-step the issue of God’s
existence.
The stretching problem in SH is illustrated in Epstein’s chart
comparing the Biblical Ten Commandments to their SH
counterparts. In Exodus 20:3 the first commandment states,
I am the LORD they God, which have brought thee out
of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou
shalt have no other gods before me.53
There are three points to be noted here. The first is that we
have the immediate presence of the Transcendent as the source
of the command. This provides the ontological dimension and
connection that humans have always sought and required as the
basis of legitimacy, authority and universality in moral matters.
Second, the implicit choice between God and other gods has an
ontological dimension that takes this choice out of the strictly
personal domain. Another will is involved and that complicates
matters. Third, this choice has greater meaning than other,
strictly personal choices because it connects us to the
Transcendent. In short, the First Commandment displays
gravitas.
Epstein’s SH version reads as follows:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Seek the best in yourself and in others, and believe in
your own ability to make a positive difference in the
world.54
While the humanist statement is unquestionably excellent
advice and we have no desire to disparage its content, none of
the attributes noted in the Biblical First Commandment are
present and this makes it inadequate for human needs. The
entire transcendent dimension is absent and that is exactly what
is necessary to satisfy the intrinsic human orientation to
Transcendence. Consequently, the choice to obey or not to
obey this ‘commandment’ is a strictly personal matter and
nothing more; it lacks the “ontological rightness” that comes
with a command from God, the creator or ground of being of
the universe. In short, it is a psychological matter and nothing
more. Moreover, the difference between the commandment and
Epstein’s SH humanist version is the difference between a
command from a legitimate (as defined above) and universal
authority, i.e. God and a suggestion or a genteel urging from a
fellow human being. This urging is not wrong — it is simply not
enough, i.e. not adequate to replace a divine command. It lacks
the legitimacy that humans have historically sought in
Transcendence while the SH version is clearly no more than
good or even excellent advice.
Let us briefly look at another example from Epstein’s book.
He quotes the Third Commandment, “Thou shalt not take the
name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will not
hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.”55 He replaces
this with “Be positive and constructive rather than negative and
disrespectful.”56 Clearly, each of these two statements inhabits
different ‘worlds’ and while each provides good counsel, they
cannot be considered as even approximate equivalents. Not
only does the Third Commandment refer to the Transcendent —
and implicitly to all the associated ontology — but it also
invokes two concepts that have no place in the SH world-view:
guilt and punishment. Taking God’s name in vain is not like

Secular Humanism
offending another human being, i.e. another created being — it
is offense against the Creator of all beings and is, therefore, far
more serious because of the ontological implications. It is not
merely a personal attack but rather an attack on the basis of all
being. For that reason it elicits sharp divine punishment. None
of these concepts are involved in Epstein’s SH version which
completely omits the issues of punishment and guilt. These have
no place in the SH world-view except as social and legal
concepts and have no ontological implications at all.
It is significant that Epstein admits the failure of humanism
in his book. He states,
Many factors have contributed to Humanism’s failure,
thus far, to fulfill expectations.57
He explores various reasons why this is the case, but he does
not recognize the problem with transcendence because to do so
would be to destroy the very foundations of SH. In our view,
the failure to understand and adequately deal with humanity’s
intrinsic orientation to Transcendence and intuition of the
Encompassing is fatally damaging. This orientation and
intuition has to be taken into account in any world-view and
philosophy of man. All attempts to explain them away whether
they come from Feuerbach, Nietzsche, Marx or Dawkins are
doomed to failure precisely because they do not genuinely
reflect human nature and its orientation to Transcendence.
5. Conclusion: “Humanism’s Failure”58
Although SH is an intellectual failure in regards to internal
logical coherence, Hume’s Guillotine, the scientific method and
the achievement of gravitas, it presents a positive challenge to
‘people of faith’ to examine their own scriptures and struggle
to present their teachings without falling into the same errors.
It should also warn us not to ‘water the wine’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings to the point where in effect, they become a pale
imitation of themselves for the sake of ‘acceptance’ and start

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
to be more like SH. It is sometimes tempting to do this but in
the end, nothing is gained by doing so.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Collins, James. The Existentialists. Chicago: Henry Regnery Co. 952.
De Botton, Alain. Religion for Atheists. New York: Random House,
2012.
Epstein, Greg, E. Good Without God. New York: Harper/Collins,
2009.
Harman, Gilbert. The Nature of Morality.
Hume, David. A Treatise on Human Nature.
Jaspers, Karl.  Reason and Existenz, trans. by William Earle. New
York: Noonday Press, 1955.
Kurtz, Paul. Forbidden Fruit: The Ethics of Secularism. New York:
Prometheus Books, 2008.
———. The Humanist Manifesto II, at http://americanhumanist.org
Lamont, Corliss. The Philosophy of Humanism. New York:
Continuum Books, 1990.
Russell, Bertrand. A History of Western Philosophy.
———. The Practice and Theory of Bolshevism.
http://gutenberg.org/ebooks/17350
Wallraff, Charles F. Karl Jaspers: An Introduction to His Philosophy.
Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1970.

NOTES
1 Corliss Lamont, The Philosophy of Humanism, p. 31.
2 Jacques Maritain, Integral Humanism.
3 Karl Jaspers, On My Philosophy, in Walter Kaufmann, ed. Existentialism
from Dostoevski to Sartre, p. 152.
4 Karl Jaspers, Reason and Existenz, p. 52.
5 Thomas W Flynn, “Why Is Religious Humanism?,” Free Inquiry, 1006.

Secular Humanism

6 Matthew S. D’Agostino, “Reason and Rationality: The Core Doctrines of
Secular Humanism,” Free Inquiry, Winter, 1944.
7 Jean-Paul Sartre, Existentialism is a Humanism, 1946.
https://marxists.org/reference/archive/sartre/works/exist/sartre.htm
8 I call this ‘Byronic humanism’ after the poet Lord Byron who told his friend
Shelley that “I am born for opposition.” He couldn’t help opposing any-
thing that might be more powerful than he was. Marlon Brando as Johnny
Strabler in The Wild One portrays Byronic humanism in modern America.
9 Jean-Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, p. 30. Also, Essays in
Existentialism, p. 78.
10 Frederick Nietzsche, The Gay Science, trans. by Thomas Common,
Sections 108, 125, 343.
11 The Humanist Manifest I,
http://americanhumanist.org/Humanism/Humanist_Manifesto_I
12 ibid.
13 ibid.
14 ibid.
15 ibid.
16 All quotes in list (1) through (6) from Corliss Lamont, The Philosophy of
Humanism, p. 12 — 14.
17 Paul Kurtz, The Humanist Manifesto II,
http://americanhumanist.org/Humanism/Humanist_Manifesto_II
18 ibid.
19 ibid.
20 ibid.
21 Thomas W. Flynnn, “Why is Religious Humanism?” in Free Inquiry, Fall 1996.
22 Malcolm D Wise, “Religion and Spirituality: A Humanist View,” Free
Inquiry, Summer 2002.
23 Karl Jaspers, Reason and Existenz, trans. by William Earle, p. 51.
24 Karl Jaspers, Reason and Existenz, trans. by William Earle, p. 52.
25 James Collins, The Existentialists, p. 110.
26 David Hume, A Treatise on Human Nature, Book II, Section 11.
27 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 181.
28 Bertrand Russell, the Preface to The Practice and Theory of Bolshevism,
emphasis added. http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/17350
29 Bertrand Russell, A History of Western Philosophy, BK II, Chapter IV,
Section II, p. 364.
30 Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Biograhphia Literaria, Chapter XIV.
31 Greg M. Epstein, Good Without God, p. 26.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

32 Wikipedia, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spandrel_%28biology%29
33 JJJC Smart, “The Mind/Brain Identity Theory,” in the Stanford Ency-
clopedia of Philosophy, http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/mind-identity/
34 Pierre Cabanis, http://metaphors.iath.virginia.edu/metaphors/17922
35 Blaise Pascal, Pensees, #347.
36 James Collins, The Existentialists, p. 110.
37 Paul Kurtz, Forbidden Fruit: The Ethics of Secularism, p. 95; emphasis
added.
38 ibid., p. 93.
39 ibid., p. 95; emphasis added.
40 ibid., p. 95; emphasis added.
41 James Leonard Park, Asking Ultimate Questions.
http://www.tc.umn.edu/ parkx032/CY-ULT-Q.html
42 Message from the Universal House of Justice to the Bahá’ís of the world
Ridvan 1966. (Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 594) The purpose of
referring to the “fundamental verities” in Compilations is to provide
readers with another listing of these “verities.”
43 Gilbert Harman, The Nature of Morality, p. 11.
44 Alain de Botton Religion for Atheists, p. 12; emphasis added.
45 Alain de Botton Religion for Atheists, p. 13; emphasis added.
46 Alain de Botton Religion for Atheists, p. 43.
47 Alain de Botton Religion for Atheists, p. 171.
48 Alain de Botton Religion for Atheists, p. 173.
49 Alain de Botton Religion for Atheists, p. 176.
50 Archaic Human Culture,
http://anthro.palomar.edu/homo2/mod_homo_3.htm
51 Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 14.
52 Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 43.
53 Exodus 20:3 (King James) in Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 118.
54 Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 118.
55 Exodus 20:7 (King James), in Epstein, Good Without God, p. 119.
56 Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 119.
57 Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 173.
58 Greg M Epstein, Good Without God, p. 173.

Women and Wisdom in Scripture
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani
Gender equality was a far off dream before mid-nineteenth
century. People around the world, though separated in the past
by natural barriers and diverse in culture, race, language, belief
and creed, agreed on one thing: the way they regarded and
treated women as subordinates to men. The wellbeing of the
male half of humanity had occupied center place even in
scripture and adherence to tradition made unthinkable any
challenge to what appeared the ‘norm’. Women lived under the
thumb of men’s authority. To justify the subjection of women,
men resorted to ‘vain imaginings’ and ‘idle fancies’,1 quoting
scripture in support of their superiority. The belief that gender
inequality was sanctioned by religion and men’s superiority had
the support of scripture led to untold inequities perpetrated
against one half of humanity.
The inability to recognize the essential principle of the
oneness of humanity, coupled with proclivity to promote
fantasy, caused falsehood to appear as reality and concealed the
truth of gender equality under layers of ambiguity. The
uneducated masses, for their understanding of the letter and
spirit of religious teachings, depended almost exclusively on the
privileged few, who in the past reserved for themselves the right
to education and the authority to interpret scripture. The use
of biased language, a conventional medium for conveying
spiritual and social laws, enabled men to hold on to their
presumed superiority over women. The glimmers of hope that
gender equality would at last become a tangible reality
penetrated human conscience on a massive scale when the Báb

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
made His mission known in 1844, followed by Bahá’u’lláh’s
declaration of His mission in 1863. The creative forces
generated by the rapid succession of the twin Manifestations of
God one hundred and seventy years ago, created a fresh impulse
in the world and produced reverberations everywhere,
particularly in lands where freedom has been enjoyed as a right.
In this paper the treatment of women in religion, the direct
and indirect influence of the Babi and Bahá’í Faiths in raising
awareness about women’s plight and transforming attitudes
towards them across the globe, the role of linguistic biases in
degrading women’s status, the role of wisdom in preparing the
ground for gender equality, and finally the need for vigilance to
prevent past shortcomings from infiltrating our way of
thinking and behaving will be discussed.
Religion has been intricately linked to the degradation of
women’s status since time immemorial. In many parts of the
world it is still the case. Any voice raised in favor of the
restoration of women’s fundamental rights is silenced by
opponents, who invariably quote from scripture in defense of
their distorted views about women. To achieve the goal of
subjugating women, religious leaders realized that the key to
their success was keeping women ignorant. For that reason
attempts to free women from the bondage of ignorance
through education is even today fiercely rejected in countries
where religious fanaticism reigns. Those who go against
traditional practices and seek an education are regarded as
threat and their perceived acts of transgression are punishable
by death. Evidences of this skewed belief are still manifest
among fanatical and radical adherents of certain religious sects
in places like Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of Africa. They
oppose the establishment of schools for girls and threaten the
lives of young women who seek education to advance their
situation in countries where religious fanaticism has been
gaining support.

Women and Wisdom
Bahá’u’lláh warns the “Oppressors on Earth” to withdraw
their hands from tyranny and has “pledged not to forgive any
man’s injustice. This is My covenant.” He says, “which I have
irrevocably decreed in the preserved tablet and sealed it with
My seal of glory.” [HW P64] He admonishes His followers: “The
friends of God must be adorned with the ornament of justice,
equity, kindness and love. As they do not allow themselves to
be the object of cruelty and transgression, in like manner they
should not allow such tyranny to visit the handmaidens of
God.”2
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has
acknowledged
the
injustices
perpetrated on the basis of gender: “Divine justice demands
that the rights of both sexes should be equally respected since
neither is superior to the other in the eyes of Heaven.” [PT 161]
Tyranny, injustice, oppression and inflicting harm on
vulnerable human beings have ever existed in the world. The
most glaring of all, however, has been the kind affecting more
than one half of the human race. This kind of tyranny has been
committed not only by primitive men against women, but also
by the civilized; not only by the ignorant, but also by the
erudite; not only by the ungodly, but also by the people of
faith. The question is why? This kind of tyranny prevented
women for eons from fulfilling their preordained measure. This
kind of inequity has been by far the most insidious committed
in the world. It has been the widest in scope and the longest in
duration.
It is insidious because it has been ongoing forever and
affected women at the family level, which is the most basic unit
of society, to organizations at the highest level and everything
in between. It has been the longest in duration because no one
knows when it began and it is yet to end worldwide. The
victims have endured maltreatment for countless generations
not only in the hand of their enemies but also the ones near and
dear to them, including the men they bore and reared. This is
indeed the saddest human drama played on the world stage for
countless centuries. How did it happen and why did it take so
long to address the injustices? Why was humanity so oblivious

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
of women’s plight and why it took so long to introduce
remedies, to right the wrong? Speculations about how it
happened are many and determining its genesis is most
difficult, but why it took so long is not difficult to ascertain.
Since the topic is women and wisdom in scripture, the focus
will be limited to the recordings of holy books, though women
have been oppressed within and outside the confines of
religion, which indicates that however it started, religion did
not remain immune from its effects.
Treatment of Women in Religion
One of the areas of human life governed by religious law is
that of “relations among individuals and between individual and
society.”3
To
accomplish
the
object
of
effecting
“a
transformation in the whole character of mankind, a
transformation that shall manifest itself both outwardly and
inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external
conditions”, [KI 240] religion takes into consideration the
requirements of time, the capacity of the people it directs and
their potential for progress within a specific timeframe. This
human element has made it necessary for religion to use
‘wisdom’ in achieving the aim of spiritualizing human beings
and guiding them to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization. To achieve this, judging by the recordings of holy
books, divine revelations in the past seem to have focused
attention and effort mostly on the male segment of humanity
and concerned themselves primarily with their interest. “In
former ages”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “men enjoyed ascendancy over
women because bodily might reigned supreme and the spirit was
subject to its dominion.”4 Constrained by the requirements of
time, which regarded physical strength and forceful nature the
criteria of superiority, a narrative granting men authority to
rule over women and requiring women to be subservient to
them
was
developed,
promoted,
widely
accepted
and
perpetuated for many thousands of years. This narrative stayed
current until mid-nineteenth century when the Báb made His

Women and Wisdom
Mission known, followed by Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation. Their
Advents revolutionized the affairs of humankind, accelerated
the process of its coming of age and drastically changed the
fortunes of womankind.
Women are endowed by Providence with attributes necessary
to bear and rear future generations. As nurturers and
protectors of life, they give of themselves to help fetuses grow
into perfect human beings. They sacrifice their own interest
that vulnerable infants may survive and flourish. As first
educators of humankind they have amazing capacity for tender-
heartedness, patience, forbearance, self-abnegation and love in
its purest form. These qualities are inherent in men as well but
it takes more effort and inducement to bring them to the fore.
The focus of scripture in the past on the edification of men,
therefore, may have been a requirement of wisdom. The
perceived preferential treatment of men was however exploited
to the full by those who reserved for themselves the right to
interpret
scripture.
They
put
women
down
at
every
opportunity, pushed them into oblivion, deprived them of their
human rights, in short enslaved them. To hold on to what they
perceived to be their prerogative, when the founder of a
subsequent religion introduced improvement in the status of
women, they objected vehemently and did everything in their
power, including misinterpretation of scripture and imposition
of arbitrary restrictions until women lost the ground they had
gained and their status became even worse than what it was
previously.
References in the scriptures of the past to the nobility of
human soul and spiritual goodness of all did not establish
gender equality, neither succeeded in averting the sufferings
inflicted on women, because they were overshadowed by
references pointing to their status being inferior to men. In
fact no specific and categorical evidence is found in religions
predating the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh’s revelations advocating the
equality of the rights of women and men. The presence of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
references to the inferior status of women in scripture gave
way to the maltreatment of women in religion.
An examination of scriptures of the three religions we are
most familiar with shed light on this phenomenon. The first
chapter of the book of Genesis5 confirms that both men and
women were created in the image and likeness of God, enjoyed
equal status and were given similar functions to perform: “And
God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness ...
So God created man in his own image, in the image of God
created he him; male and female created he them. And God
blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it...” [Genesis 1:26-
28]
The structure of the passage is intriguing. The same thing
could have been said in a simpler fashion. Its complexity lent it
to misinterpretation and led to inequality of men and women.
We turn to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for clarification of the term ‘man’ in
the above passage: “The biblical statement ‘Let us make man in
our image, after our likeness’ does not mean that woman was
not created. The image and likeness of God apply to her as
well.” [PUP 74] He then explains: “In Persian and Arabic there
are two distinct words translated into English as man: one
meaning man and woman collectively, the other distinguishing
man as male from woman the female. The first word and its
pronoun are generic, collective; the other is restricted to the
male. This is the same in Hebrew.” He adds: “To accept and
observe a distinction which God has not intended in creation is
ignorance and superstition....” [PUP 74] In this statement
‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms the causes of gender inequality being
ignorance and superstition. These words are synonyms of ‘vain
imaginings’ and ‘idle fancies’, which Bahá’u’lláh has used to
highlight the causes of inequality.
Men and women might have initially enjoyed the equality
that the first chapter of the book of Genesis confirms. If that
was ever the case, it is not known how long it lasted, for no

Women and Wisdom
record of it exists. The process of men gaining ascendancy over
women seems to have been gradual. The pretext for the change
is recorded in the second and third chapters of the book of
Genesis. To justify women’s subjugation, an imaginative and
elaborate scenario was contrived. In brief, the story claims that
Adam was first formed and Eve was created from his rib. Eve
was deceived by a serpent and ate of the fruit of the forbidden
tree, of which Adam ate as well, fully aware that he was
disobeying the instructions of God. When he was called to
account for his transgression, he blamed Eve, his wife. As a
result, she was made to suffer the severest punishment: “Unto
the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy
conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.”
[Genesis 3:16] Thus was sealed the fate of women for millennia
and tyranny against them reigned unchecked.
About the contrived story of creation ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
If we take this story in its apparent meaning, according
to the interpretation of the masses, it is indeed
extraordinary. The intelligence cannot accept it, affirm
it, or imagine it; for such arrangements, such details,
such speeches and reproaches are far from being those
of an intelligent man, how much less of the Divinity ...
Therefore, this story of Adam and Eve who ate from the
tree, and their expulsion from Paradise, must be thought
of simply as a symbol. [SAQ 123]
Sadly the story was taken literally and led to an era of
tyranny and injustice engulfing one half of humanity. Even
today girls are prevented from going to school in some parts of
the world, young women seeking an education are shot in the
head,6 and it is all done in the name of religion! A story so
extraordinary in detail that according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
“intelligence cannot accept it, affirm it, or imagine it”, found
currency among people who consider themselves intelligent and

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
has been used to impose arbitrary restrictions on one half of
the human race.
The Books of Moses, probably the oldest religious
documents in existence, contain many inconsistencies. The
account of the creation of the first pair of human beings is a
major inconsistency and its effect on the cause of womanhood
has been devastating. It is not known how exactly the
inconsistency occurred. Each of the existing schools probably
taught its own version, which did not agree in every detail,
before they were consolidated into one. To achieve consensus,
the consolidators seem to have retained the inconsistencies they
could not resolve; the major issue being the status of women
which by then had suffered irretrievable setback. The
appearance of the two contradictory stories about the creation
of Adam and Eve in close proximity in the initial chapters of
Genesis “either laid the foundation for degrading women’s
status in religion or gave religious support to discriminatory
views already in circulation. It is noteworthy that the distorted
creation story was widely accepted and, together with the story
of the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden,
was used by theologians and priests in a way that had an adverse
effect on the popular view of women’s inherent nature.”7
The Manifestations of God who came after Moses
introduced measures to improve the status of women.
However, before the Advents of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, none
went as far as declaring gender equality, no doubt as a
consideration of wisdom, for gender inequality was so
entrenched that the pronouncement of equality would have
shocked those that most needed religion and would have kept
men outside the sphere of religious influence. Evidence shows
that whatever improvement was made by subsequent Divine
Educators, was lost almost immediately after He passed away.
Jesus Christ, during His ministry, accepted women into His
presence and treated them kindly. No indication can be found
in the statements He made that He ever put women down or

Women and Wisdom
degraded them in any way. On the contrary, He elevated them
at every opportunity. Women did well early in Christianity.
Mary Magdalene, titled by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the Pride of Men
arose with astonishing firmness and steadfastness after Christ’s
crucifixion. Through genuine love for the teachings of Jesus
she provided such inspired guidance that became the cause of
steadfastness and enthusiasm of His disciples.8 Walking in her
footsteps the early Christian women did well until St. Paul in
his letters introduced restrictions to check their advancement.
The justification for the restrictions was the ‘extraordinary’
story of the creation of Adam and Eve, as recorded in the
second and third chapters of the book of Genesis:
Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. But I
suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority
over the man, but to be in silence. For Adam was first
formed, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the
woman being deceived was in the transgression.
Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing, if
they continue in faith and charity and holiness with
sobriety. [1 Tim. 2:11-15]
The tone and contents of St. Paul’s letters provide a window
into how early Christian men viewed the activities of the
women believers. The letters also disclose the women’s success,
especially in giving talks and teaching Christianity, which
caused alarm and disturbed some men who, instead of being
inspired by the women’s example, complained and expressed
concern. The situation must have been serious or St. Paul, who
advocated a break with the past, would not have upheld the
sanctions that had kept women backward. Sentences such as
“Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection” and “I
suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the
man, but to be in silence” reveal how strongly rooted was the
prejudice against women. Another letter from St. Paul, which
justifies the requirement for women to cover their heads,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
confirms his conviction that only man, the male, was created in
the image and glory of God, and that woman was of the man:
... a man indeed ought not to cover his head, for as
much as he is the image and glory of God: but the
woman is the glory of the man. For the man is not of the
woman; but the woman of the man. Neither is the man
created for the woman; but the woman for the man. [1
Cor. 11:7-9]
By sanctioning old restrictions on women, St. Paul revived
the contrived story of creation and deprived women, so soon
after Christ’s crucifixion, of their God-given rights. The
question then is: Why was appeasing the men so important and
why women had to continue to pay the price of appeasement?
Did wisdom have anything to do with it? Humanity had not yet
come of age and had to be treated according to its capacity.
Physical force was the criterion for superiority and men were
physically strong. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says: “In former ages, men
enjoyed ascendancy over women because bodily might reigned
supreme and the spirit was subject to its dominion.”9 No
wonder then that the answer to men’s immaturity was pacifying
their aggressive nature in order to spiritualize them under the
canopy of religion. Fortitude has been the mark of women’s
strength. Their long suffering has helped the process of
realizing the goal of spiritualizing mankind. Now that the era
of justice has dawned presaging humanity’s coming of age, the
restoration of their rights is at hand.
Prophet Muhammad introduced a number of measures to
upgrade the status of women, which had steadily eroded for
countless centuries before His revelation. However He, too,
revealed laws commensurate with requirements of the time and
limitations of the people among whom He appeared. For
example, He reaffirms that man was first created and out of
him was created his wife: “O men, fear your Lord, who hath
created you out of one man, and out of him created his wife,
and from the two hath multiplied many men and women.” In

Women and Wisdom
the same passage He admonishes His followers to “fear God by
whom ye beseech one another; and respect women, who have
borne you, for God is watching over you.”10 In fact He came
very close to advocating gender equality when He said: “The
women ought also to behave towards their husbands in like
manner as their husbands should behave towards them
according to what is just.” Regrettably He added: “... but the
men ought to have a superiority over them...”11 Another verse
of the Quran says: “Men shall have the preeminence above
women, because of those advantages wherein God hath caused
the one of them to excel the other, and for that which they
expend of their substance in maintaining their wives.”12 Here
again we see how popular traditional belief and people’s
immaturity made it impossible for gender equality to become a
guiding principle. Can the role wisdom played here in giving
men preeminence above women be denied?
The improvements that the Prophet Muhammad had made in
the status of women during His lifetime gradually lost their
efficacy due to misinterpretations of the ‘ulama, who imposed
severe restrictions on women. As a result, women continued to
suffer inhuman treatment in the name of religion. Referring to
their status before the revelation of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
The status of woman in former times was exceedingly
deplorable, for it was the belief of the Orient that it was
best for woman to be ignorant. It was considered
preferable that she should not know reading or writing
in order that she might not be informed of events in the
world. Woman was considered to be created for rearing
children and attending to the duties of the household. If
she pursued educational course, it was deemed contrary
to chastity; hence women were prisoners of the
household. The houses did not even have windows
opening upon the outside world. [PUP 166, emphasis added]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Women are seldom mentioned in Hinduism, Buddhism and
Confucianism. What has been handed down in both word and
practice point to women’s subordinate status in communities
adhering to these religions. (For cited examples, see Hope for a
Global Ethic by Brian D. Lepard, pp. 104, 106, 107.) Women
were also regarded inferior to men in Zoroastrianism.
References to them are hard to find, because Zoroastrian
scripture is unavailable in a language readily understood even
by ordinary Zoroastrians. That no Zoroastrian woman prior to
2011 held a position of authority is an indication that gender
equality was probably not a tenet of the religion. In 2011 the
Zoroastrian Council of Priests in Tehran (Anjoman-e-Mobedan)
“announced that for the first time in the history of Iran and of
the Zoroastrian communities worldwide women had joined the
group of mobeds (priests) in Iran as mobedyars (women
priests); the women hold official certificates and perform the
lower religious functions and can initiate people into the
religion.”13
In a number of His Tablets ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of the
abasement suffered by women in the East, which confirms that
in the drama of men-women relationship, selfishness and
insatiable thirst for control triumphed over justice and fairness,
leaving one half of humanity at the mercy of the other half. He
says: “Formerly in India, Persia and throughout the Orient, she
was not considered a human being. Certain Arab tribes counted
their women in with the live stock.”14
It took humanity several thousand years to arrive at a point
in its maturity necessary for the recognition of a simple truth:
that having been created in the image and likeness of God, men
and women alike are the revealers of the names and attributes
of the Creator and enjoy equal rights. However, without the
generating influence of a divine revelation it would have been
impossible to bring about meaningful change in the psyche and
attitude of human beings, to embrace this truth. Since scripture
was responsible initially through the use of language in creating
ambiguity concerning the status of women, only scripture

Women and Wisdom
could put it right and produce a favorable atmosphere for its
enforcement. The morn of administering justice in the world
finally dawned in the nineteenth century when Bahá’u’lláh
proclaimed unambiguously the principle of gender equality as a
prerequisite for establishing unity of humankind, the pivotal
principle of His revelation:
All should know, and in this regard attain the splendors
of the sun of certitude, and be illumined thereby:
Women and men have been and will always be equal in
the sight of God. The Dawning-Place of the Light of
God sheddeth its radiance upon all with the same
effulgence. Verily God created women for men, and
men for women. The most beloved of people before
God are the most steadfast and those who have
surpassed others in their love for God, exalted be His
glory.15
He further confirmed that distinctions have been lifted from
between men and women:
Praised be God, the Pen of the Most High hath lifted
distinctions
from
between
His
servants
and
handmaidens, and, through His consummate favours and
all-encompassing mercy, hath conferred upon all a
station and rank on the same plane. He hath broken the
back of vain imaginings with the sword of utterance and
hath obliterated the perils of idle fancies through the
pervasive power of His might.16
He reiterated the removal of all distinctions and confirmed that
believers, regardless of their gender, are regarded on the same
plane:
In this Day the Hand of divine grace hath removed all
distinctions. The servants of God and His handmaidens
are regarded on the same plane. Blessed is the servant
who hath attained unto that which God hath decreed,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
and likewise the leaf moving in accordance with the
breezes of His will.17
Measures Taken to Establish Gender Equality
Bahá’u’lláh did not only reveal the principle of gender
equality, He also provided for its implementation. The right to
education is high among the provisions He has revealed,
education that is universal and compulsory. One of the reasons
gender inequality went unchallenged in the past was women’s
inability to know for themselves what the holy books had said.
As a result, they were unable to go to the source and enquire
from the centre of authority when things were vague or
appeared prejudicial and discriminatory. They operated in the
dark — the darkness of ignorance — and paid a high price for
following blindly what had been contrived. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
... It is incumbent upon the girls of this glorious era to
be fully versed in the various branches of knowledge, in
sciences and the arts and all the wonders of this
preeminent time, that they may then educate their
children and train them from their earliest days in the
ways of perfection.18
He strongly refutes the argument that women’s capabilities do
not match those of men’s:
It has been objected by some that woman is not equally
capable with man and that she is deficient by creation.
This is pure imagination. The difference in capability
between man and woman is due entirely to opportunity
and education. Heretofore woman has been denied the
right and privilege of equal development. If equal
opportunity be granted her, there is no doubt she would
be the peer of man. History will evidence this. In past
ages noted women have arisen in the affairs of nations
and surpassed men in their accomplishments....19

Women and Wisdom
He advises the friends:
Devote ye particular attention to the school for girls,
for the greatness of this wondrous Age will be
manifested as a result of progress in the world of
women. This is why ye observe that in every land the
world of women is on the march, and this is due to the
impact of the Most Great manifestation, and the power
of the teachings of God.20
To fulfill the object of transforming humanity and inspiring
its adherents to organize their affairs according to a newly
revealed order, divine revelation pays close attention to the
capacity of people and requirements of the time it is destined
to stay relevant. As discussed earlier, recordings of Holy Books
indicate that men and women were created equal and given
responsibility to multiply, replenish the earth and subdue it.
However humanity’s proclivity to move away from the spirit of
religious teachings and its tendency to slide back to the way of
life to which it was attached previously caused it to comingle
divine teachings with stories and myths it had inherited from
earlier generations. Efforts to right the wrong and to restore
balance took several thousand years and culminated in
Bahá’u’lláh declaring categorically that distinctions have been
removed and gender equality restored. However, what had
taken root in the hearts and minds could not be obliterated
overnight, the ground had to be made ready for its worldwide
implementation. This colossal task fell on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to
accomplish. This topic has been dealt with in detail in a paper
by this author, titled “Preparing Bahá’ís in the East and the
West to Embrace Gender Equality”.21 One of the Tablets
discussed in that paper is the one ‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed in
response to Corinne True who had asked about the exclusion of
women from membership of the Universal House of Justice.
Contrary to what the generality of the friends believe, He did
not say women’s exclusion from membership of the House of
Justice was for a reason. He said it was “for a wisdom of Lord

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
God’s which will ere long be made manifest as clearly as the sun
at high noon.” But before addressing the question, He
emphasized:
in the sight of Bahá, women are accounted the same as
men, and God hath created all humankind in His own
image, and after His own likeness. That is, men and
women alike are the revealers of His names and
attributes, and from the spiritual viewpoint there is no
difference between them. Whosoever draweth nearer to
God, that one is the most favoured, whether man or
woman. How many a handmaid, ardent and devoted,
hath, within the sheltering shade of Bahá, proved
superior to the men, and surpassed the famous of the
earth.
The House of Justice, however, according to the
explicit text of the Law of God, is confined to men; this
for a wisdom of the Lord God’s, which will ere long be
made manifest as clearly as the sun at high noon. [SWAB
79-80]
Gender equality has always been a spiritual principle.
Bahá’u’lláh has confirmed, “Women and men have been and will
always be equal in the sight of God.”22 The mere reiteration of
that principle would not have gained women equal rights with
men, as attested by historical records, but the lifting of
distinctions from between women and men and granting them
all a station on the same plane did. What is different in His
dispensation is that gender equality is also a social principle
with vast implications for womanhood and humanity in general.
Another point in need of clarification is this: Initially the
friends even in North America, in keeping with their traditional
upbringing and mindset, assumed that women were barred from
serving on all Houses of Justice, local, national and
international.23 After a period of painstaking education,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained the intent of the law, which made it

Women and Wisdom
possible for women to serve on all institutions of the Faith,
appointed and elected, except that of the Universal House of
Justice. Bahá’í women have served in the elected institutions of
the Faith many years before other women in the United States
gained the right to serve as elected representatives of the
inhabitants of that country.
When the Tablet addressed to Corinne True reached its
recipient and the contents became known, even though ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá had confirmed women’s exclusion from the membership
of the “House of Justice”, it was not sufficient. Some men,
among them a prominent Bahá’í in the United States,
complained because ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said: “How many a
handmaid, ardent and devoted, hath, within the sheltering shade
of Bahá, proved superior to the men, and surpassed the famous
of the earth.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet revealed in honour of
Thornton Chase speaks for itself:
It may be that letters addressed to the women believers
do indeed contain certain passages written by way of
encouragement, but the purpose of such passages is to
show that, in this new age, some of the women have
outshone some of the men — not that all women have
excelled all men! The members of the Spiritual Assembly
should do all they can to provide encouragement to the
women believers. In this dispensation one should not
think in terms of “men” and “women” all are under the
shadow of the Word of God and, as they strive the more
diligently, so shall their reward be the greater — be they
men or women or the frailest of people.24
In lands where religious fanaticism and gender bias against
women were extremely strong and impenetrable — Iran being
one of them — the process of preparing the community took
much longer and women’s membership on Bahá’í institutions
materialized in 1954, three years before the passing of Shoghi
Effendi.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
This writer heard about the exclusion of women from
membership of the House of Justice before entering primary
school, many years before the institution of the Universal
House of Justice came into being. At that time in Iran Bahá’í
women were not yet eligible to serve even on local and national
elected bodies.25 Therefore it did not come as a surprise. As I
grew older, I heard men speculate on what could be the reason
for exclusion. I must admit most speculations were offensive
even to a very young girl that I was then. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet
brought to me a measure of relief and comfort. Contrary to
speculations, He had given no reason for women’s exclusion
but spoken of “a wisdom of Lord God’s”, which He said, “will
ere long be made manifest as clearly as the sun at high noon.”
Armed with this ‘discovery’, I challenged the validity of the
speculations I had heard repeatedly. Some speculators
maintained that reason and wisdom were synonyms! I looked up
the definition of the two words and found out the difference.
Further research into the process that led to the degradation
of women’s status in religion opened the door to a new
understanding of the term ‘wisdom’, especially the kind that
human beings have been given the capacity to fathom. The kind
of wisdom that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks about is that which “will
ere long be made manifest as clearly as the sun at high noon.” It
means that all have the ability to see and understand, unless
completely blind. This is the kind of wisdom that all Divine
Educators have used to improve women’s status without
startling the male population and arousing their vehement
objection. If not seen in this light, scripture would be
implicated in causing women their plight. Prejudices against
women were so entrenched, lack of education so widespread,
and misinterpretation of scripture so rampant that their status
deteriorated steadily until humanity became the recipient of a
revelation, which has revolutionized its affairs and set in
motion a process leading to the maturity of the human race.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá used supreme wisdom in the implementation of
the principle of gender equality. He said this Himself in a

Women and Wisdom
Tablet addressed to a group of women in Tihran, who wished to
see the principle in action before members of the community
were ready to embrace it:
I am endeavouring, with Bahá’u’lláh’s confirmations and
assistance, so to improve the world of the handmaidens
that all will be astonished ... Ye need to be calm and
composed, so that the work will proceed with wisdom,
otherwise there will be such chaos that ye will leave
everything and run away. “This newly born babe is
traversing in one night the path that needeth a hundred
years to tread.” In brief, ye should now engage in
matters of pure spirituality and not contend with men.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá will tactfully take appropriate steps. Be
assured. In the end thou wilt thyself exclaim, “This was
indeed supreme wisdom!” I appeal to you to obliterate
this contention between men and women....
He closed the Tablet with these words: “No one can on his own
achieve anything. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá must be well pleased and
assist.”26
‘Abdu’l-Bahá engaged in a process of educating the believers
to embrace gender equality.27 The insurmountable obstacles in
the way were different in nature and magnitude in the East and
West. He gently addressed the objections and refuted them
with loving compassion. Regarding the argument that woman
has been created deficient, He says:
It has been objected by some that woman is not equally
capable with man and that she is deficient by creation.
This is pure imagination. The difference in capability
between man and woman is due entirely to opportunity
and education. [PUP 133]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The Role of Language in Perpetuating Women’s Plight
The opening lines of US Declaration of Independence
reiterates in essence what the first chapter of the book of
Genesis affirms but leaves out the clarification about both male
and female having been created in God’s’ image:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are
Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. — That to
secure these rights, Governments are instituted among
Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the
governed.28
The word ‘men’ appears twice in the passage: the first is lower
case, the second capitalized. The one is probably general, the
other specific. Who knows which is which, for when
pronounced they sound alike. Also the ‘consent of the
governed’ is determined through voting. Since the American
women did not have the right to vote when the Declaration of
Independence was written in 1776, it is assumed that their
consent or lack thereof was of no consequence. No wonder
then that US Declaration of Independence did not achieve
gender equality. It was through civil liberty and education that
the eyes of women were opened and the fire of longing for
emancipation blazoned in their hearts. Some women became
anti-slavery activists and campaigned in earnest for its
abolition. Having been oppressed and subjugated for countless
centuries, they understood what slavery entailed and how
abhorrent a practice it was. One of the women activists,
Lucretia Mott, a Quaker minister, attended as a delegate the
World Anti-Slavery Convention held in London, England in
1840, but was refused the right, along with other female
delegates attending the Convention, to speak. In fact they were
asked to leave. The refusal to seat the women delegates was the
motivating factor for Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, the

Women and Wisdom
wife of another delegate from the United States, to get together
and discuss the need for holding “a convention to discuss the
rights of women.”29 That convention took place in Seneca Falls,
New York, in the summer of 1948 at about the same time the
Conference of Badasht was held.
To deliberate on the plight of women and propose changes
to mitigate the effect of maltreatment and injustices they had
suffered, the gathering produced a document known as the
Declaration of Sentiments, which stipulates: “We hold these
truths to be self-evident: that all men and women are created
equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness....”
The simultaneous occurrence of these two events in venues
thousands of miles apart with the theme of breaking away from
traditions of the past, as well as the role that women played in
the proceedings of both are truly astounding. Although the
agenda of the two conferences was rejection of the status quo,
the outcome was very different. Those assembled at Seneca
Falls forged ahead with their aims. Fully cognizant of the role
that linguistic biases had played in the degradation of women’s
status in religion, they took measures to arrest the process and
right the wrong. The organizer, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
financed the production of a women’s bible. She also financed
the work of the women activists.
At Badasht Conference only one woman participated in the
proceedings. She was known as Qurratu’l-`Ayn and became
better known as Tahirih (the Pure). She was one of the central
players at the Conference. To declare the dawn of a New Day
and the emancipation of women through the Bab’s Advent, she
appeared unveiled in an assemblage of men, who confessed
belief in the Báb but were utterly unprepared to see the
unveiled face of a woman adherent of the nascent Faith. By
removing her veil, something strictly imposed on women by
Islamic tradition and upheld fiercely by religious leaders,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Tahirih proclaimed the dawn of a new Era and the invalidation
of traditions that had kept women backward. She was sentenced
to death for espousing the nascent Cause and executed in 1852,
the year Bahá’u’lláh received intimation of His Mission while
imprisoned in the Siyah Chal (Black Pit) of Tihran. Shoghi
Effendi refers to “this great Babi heroine” as “the first woman
suffrage martyr, who, at her death, turning to the one in whose
custody she had been placed, had boldly declared: ‘You can kill
me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the emancipation
of women.’” [GPB 75]
What prompted Tahirih at Badasht and some North
American women at Seneca Falls to go against the norm was
directly related to the maltreatment of women and the denial of
their God-given rights. Slavery and women’s subjugation are
kindred subjects. They are ancient practices, heinous and
oppressive. However, the two differ in one respect: Slavery
became a burden on man’s conscience long before did the
maltreatment of women.
Those desirous of having power over women and controlling
their affairs perceive gender inequality as a matter sanctioned
in scripture. Keeping women ignorant and under the thumb of
the authority of men is one thing all religious zealots agree to
uphold. To give credence to their misinterpretations, they use
linguistic nuances as the vehicle. To prevent women from
recognizing and taking action against maltreatment, they have
made it look as though God has intended men to be superior in
creation. As gender inequality is seemingly based on scripture,
its eradication only scripture could sanction. Granting women
equality with men through legislation is insufficient. Even the
United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights,30
adopted by UN General Assembly on 10 December 1948, a
hundred years after the conferences held at Badasht and Seneca
Falls31 has been ineffective to restore to women their rights in
countries ruled by religious law. Moreover, whatever is given at
will can be taken away at will, and examples of this are

Women and Wisdom
provided repeatedly in history. A case in point is the situation
of women in Iran before and after the Islamic Revolution.
In North America, the cradle of freedom, women rights
activists have been unable to have the equal rights amendment
ratified. The amendment to the US Constitution designed to
guarantee equal rights for women was first proposed in 1923.
Although it passed both houses of Congress by 1972, sufficient
number of state legislatures did not vote in favor it by the
deadlines the Congress had set. The opposition was based on a
number of reasons, traditional gender roles pre-eminent among
them. As a result, it has not yet become the law. Further efforts
are being made at the federal and state levels to have it
adopted. During His travels in the West, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke
repeatedly about the subject. The following is an example:
Neither sex is superior to the other in the sight of God.
Why then should one sex assert the inferiority of the
other, withholding just rights and privileges as though
God had given His authority for such a course of
action? [PT 161]
The underlying purpose of divine revelations, Bahá’u’lláh
says, “hath been to educate all men, that they may, at the hour
of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and sanctity and with
absolute detachment, to the throne of the Most High” [GWB
157]. To educate humanity, the Revealers of religion have had to
use the medium of language, which like everything in life is
subject to change. The earliest religious records that have
survived, regardless of how they were worded in the original
language, have been translated to a language highly prejudicial
to the cause of womanhood, as discussed earlier. Using
masculine terms, such as ‘man’, ‘men’ and pronouns, such as
‘he’, ‘his’ and ‘him’ indistinctively regardless of whether they
refer to man, the male, or to humanity in general have worked
to women’s disadvantage. The realization of gender equality, a
vital aspect of the principle of unity of humankind, requires

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
dealing with this dilemma, which has been a major cause of the
degradation of women since time immemorial.
The capacity of language to convey meanings other than
those traditionally assigned to words has been exploited in
every respect but that of gender equality. The time seems
propitious to let the use of unbiased language rid humanity of
the remaining barriers intervening between it and the full
realization of gender equality.
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings are revealed in both Persian and
Arabic. These two languages are very different in the way the
pronouns are used. Unlike Persian, a non-gender-specific
language, which uses the same pronoun for God and third
singular person whether man or woman, Arabic is gender
specific, it uses different pronouns when referring to a man or
a woman. It also uses the plural of masculine pronoun for
referring to humanity in general.32
The problem of using masculine pronoun whether it refers to
God, to man specifically or to humanity in general is
accentuated when Persian Writings are translated to English,
because all non-gender-specific Persian terms and pronouns are
changed to masculine. Since translations to all other languages
are based on the English approved version, this linguistic bias is
promoted and perpetuated throughout the Bahá’í world,
making it most difficult, if not impossible, to control their
ramifications throughout the dispensation.
Looking deeper into challenges that lack of linguistic clarity
poses for translators of Bahá’í Writings provides us with
valuable insights. In a Tablet revealed in Persian regarding the
membership of the Supreme Tribunal, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
... the question of universal peace, about which
Bahá’u’lláh says that the Supreme Tribunal must be
established: although the League of Nations has been
brought into existence, yet it is incapable of establishing
universal peace. But the Supreme Tribunal which

Women and Wisdom
Bahá’u’lláh has described will fulfill this sacred task with
the utmost might and power. And His plan is this: that
the national assemblies of each country and nation —
that is to say parliaments — should elect two or three
persons who are the choicest men of that nation, and are
well informed concerning international laws and the
relations between governments and aware of the
essential needs of the world of humanity in this day...
From among these people the members of the Supreme
Tribunal will be elected, and all mankind will thus have a
share therein, for every one of these delegates is fully
representative of his nation... [SWAB 305]
After the English translation of the Tablet was published in
Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and quoted in the
compilation on Peace, the phrase ‘the choicest men of that
nation’ was found to be inaccurate. In the original Persian
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says ‘the choicest persons’, not ‘the choicest men’.
When the mistranslation was brought to the attention of the
Universal House of Justice, it instructed the responsible
department to look into the matter. After thorough
investigation, the phrase was changed to ‘the choicest of that
nation’, which is not gender specific. Publishing Trusts were
then informed to make the correction. It is not known how
many made the correction and informed the friends, who had
purchased earlier versions. Meanwhile, unaware of this
development, the friends continue to quote in their writings
and speeches the phrase that proved to be inaccurate. As late as
November 2012, a Nineteen Day Feast letter, circulated in the
United States, quoted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement on the subject
of peace and Supreme Tribunal, which did not reflect the
correction. As a result, some Bahá’ís are of the opinion that
women are ineligible for membership of the Supreme Tribunal,
in contradiction to what the Universal House of Justice has
stated in a letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of New Zealand, which had asked the Supreme Body

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
about the eligibility of women for membership on the Supreme
Tribunal:
With regard to the status of women, the important
point for Bahá’ís to remember is that in face of the
categorical
pronouncements
in
Bahá’í
Scripture
establishing the equality of men and women, the
ineligibility of women for membership of the Universal
House of Justice does not constitute evidence of the
superiority of men over women. It must also be borne
in mind that women are not excluded from any other
international institution of the Faith. They are found
among the ranks of the Hands of the Cause. They serve
as members of the International Teaching Centre and as
Continental Counsellors. And, there is nothing in the
Text to preclude the participation of women in such
future international bodies as the Supreme Tribunal.33
Another example is the retranslation of a phrase in a Tablet
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Corinne True about the ineligibility of
women for membership of the Universal House of Justice. The
retranslated phrase reads: “for, as hath been stated in the text
of the Book, both the head and the members of the House of
Justice must be men.” When the retranslation was carefully
checked against the original text of the Tablet, it became clear
that it was inaccurate. The inaccuracy was reported,
investigated and corrected to read: “...for, as hath been stated
in the text of the Book, both the head and the members of the
House of Justice are men.”34
One of the many blessings that members of the worldwide
Bahá’í community enjoy is the duty and privilege of immersing
themselves in the ocean of Bahá’u’lláh’s Words and of using the
writings of the authorized Interpreters to enhance their
understanding of the verities enshrined in His revelation. They
also enjoy the right to seek clarification from the Supreme
governing Body of the Bahá’í Faith regarding anything that
appears obscure, or in the case of translations, anything that

Women and Wisdom
might be inaccurate. No matter how careful the translators of
Sacred Writings are and how meticulously the process of review
is, the possibility of human error cannot be completely ruled
out. The believers familiar with the languages of revelation
(Persian and Arabic) would render a valuable service if they paid
careful attention to translations and compared them against the
original. If anything looks or feels inaccurate in meaning or
appearance, report it to the right authority and make sure that
it is documented. It would also be most helpful for the
translators to be extra mindful of any and all traditional
pitfalls.
Having a clear vision about men and women enjoying equal
rights has tremendous ramifications not only for this
dispensation but also for the distant future. In light of
Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “... were He to pronounce one of
the leaves to be the manifestation of all His excellent titles,
unto no one is given the right to utter why or wherefore, and
should one do so he would be regarded as a disbeliever in God
and be numbered with such as have repudiated His Truth”, [TB
185] the appearance of female Manifestations of God in future
is not beyond the realm of possibility. What we do and say
today undoubtedly has repercussions in the future. Our words
and actions today have the potency to intensify the afflictions
or mitigate their effects when the time for renewal comes again.
Let us all work for a prejudice-free society and remember the
words of the Universal House of Justice:
World order can be founded only on an unshakeable
consciousness of the oneness of mankind, a spiritual
truth
which
all
the
human
sciences
confirm.
Anthropology, physiology, psychology, recognize only
one human species, albeit infinitely varied in the
secondary aspects of life. Recognition of this truth
requires abandonment of prejudice — prejudice of every
kind — race, class, colour, creed, nation, sex, degree of
material civilization, everything which enables people to

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
consider themselves superior to others. Acceptance of
the oneness of mankind is the first fundamental
prerequisite for reorganization and administration of
the world as one country, the home of humankind.
Universal acceptance of this spiritual principle is
essential to any successful attempt to establish world
peace...35

NOTES
1 Women: Bahá’í Writings on the Equality of Men and Women, the Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, London, Revised edition 1990, #2.
2 Women, #58
3 The Kitab-i-Aqdas, Introduction,
4 Women, #10.
5 The King James translation of the Bible, from which this and other
quotations cited in this article are taken, is based on the Greek translation
of the Hebrew original of the Book.
6 Malala, the Pakistani young girl who survived a vicious attempt on her life
by religious fundamentalists in that country, is a case in point.
7 Article by this author in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, volume 8, number
1, p. 47.
8 From a previously unpublished Tablet in Persian, revealed jointly in honor
of Jinab-i-Mirza Mu’min and his wife. Mirza Mu’min’s wife seems to be
the sister of Jinab-i Ibn-i-Abhar.
9 Women, number 10
10 The Quran, trans. by George Sale (London, Frederick Warne and Co.), p.
71.
11 Ibid, p. 32
12 Ibid, p. 77
13 “Women’s Ordination” in Zoroastrianism, quoted in Wikipedia.
14 Women, #28
15 Women, #58.
16 Women, #2
17 Women, #3
18 Women, #46

Women and Wisdom

19 Women, #47
20 Women, #52
21 Lights of ‘Irfan Book 12, at
http://irfancolloquia.org/100/ma'ani_equality
22 Women, number 58, also Compilation of Compilations, vol. II, p. 379
23 It was as late as 1920 when women in America gained the right to vote.
24 Women, #19
25 The election of Bahá’í women in Iran to Local and National Spiritual
Assemblies was a goal of Shoghi Effendi’s Ten Year Global Plan. The goal
was accomplished at Ridvan 1954.
26 Women, #13
27 For a detailed account, see “Preparing Bahá’í Communities in the East and
West to Embrace Gender Equality” by this author, Lights of ‘Irfan, book
twelve, pp 195-218
28 The Declaration of Sentiments (Seneca Falls Convention, 1848)
29 ibid.
30 “The General Assembly recognizes that the inherent dignity and the equal
and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world, human rights
should be protected by the rule of law, friendly relations between nations
must be fostered, the peoples of the UN have affirmed their faith in
human rights, the dignity and the worth of the human person, the equal
rights of men and women and are determined to promote social progress,
better standards of life and larger freedom and have promised to promote
human rights and a common understanding of these rights.” (Simplified
Version of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights”, Summary of
Preamble)
31 The full text is published by the United Nations on its website.
32 This subject has been dealt with in considerable detail in “The Effect of
Philosophical and Linguistic Gender Biases on the Degradation of
Women’s Status in Religion”, Journal of Bahá’í Studies, vol. 8, number 1.
33 Letter from the Universal House of Justice to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of New Zealand dated 31 May 1988.
34 Secretariat letter dated 14 October 1987, attaching a memorandum from
the Research Department, of the same date.
35 The Promise of World Peace. Quoted in Women, #35

On Existence and Qualities of the Human Soul
Farjam Majd
Abstract
In comparing animals and humans, or as put more modernly,
comparing humans with other animals, the questions of the
existence, nature, and necessity of a human soul often come up.
The question of existence of the human soul may be explored
from different perspectives. For example, this question may be
posed as “is there a human soul?” If so, what is it? why do we
need a soul? why not just the brain? Is it needed to explain
something, such as “continuation of life after physical death?”
If so, is it just a contrivance to answer such peripheral
questions?
To attempt a rational treatment of these questions, a two-
phase approach is adopted: first, a rational foundation is laid
out, and second, the principles established as part of this
rational foundation are applied to specific questions, such as
those posed above. The overall argument is the result of a
modern treatment and integration of several diverse concepts
Proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh and explained by Abdu’l-Bahá. These
diverse concepts are presented aided by various quotes from the
Bahá’í sacred Writings.
In the first phase, science and rationality are compared and
their relationship established. A principle of primacy of logic
and rationality is developed that includes science as a subset.
Relationships are categorized into two broad classes: physical
and rational. A model of thought, human or otherwise, is
developed to precisely define what it means to think. The

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
central role of analogy to cognitive activities is described. The
physical world is defined as a realm where the fundamental
dimensions of time and space govern over all that is contained
therein. Further, a number of realms of existence, or
“Kingdoms,” including Mineral, Plant, Animal, and Human
Kingdoms are described.
In the second phase, a part scientific and part rational
methodology is employed to specifically answer the direct and
indirect questions about the existence of the human soul. It is
argued that no physical system, including the human brain, can
comprehend rational relationships because the rational and
physical realms do not overlap. This aspect differentiates man
from animal. One aspect of spirituality is described as the
ability to comprehend rational relationship. However, since
computers clearly represent and process rational relationships,
additional explanations are appropriate, and indeed, required.
Comprehension of rational relationships is not the same as their
representation or processing. Comprehension of an abstract or
rational relationship is realized only if it is analogically related
and successfully applied to a domain different from the one in
which it was discovered, when the two domains are materially
disjoint.
It is concluded that the mere fact of comprehension of
abstract rational relationships necessitates the existence and
assistance of a non-physical entity, the human soul, which
provides the power of rational comprehension from outside the
physical realm. The Kingdoms of existence further explain how
the human soul fits in a unified world of God.
Introduction
Here is an exercise for the reader: What holds the earth
suspended in space? (a) The World Turtle, (b) the World
Elephant, (c) the World Serpent, or (d) something else? This
exercise holds several important keys to answering the main
question posed by this paper: whether an entity called the

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
human soul exists. The correct answer is (d): something else,
namely, the mutual gravitational pull between the earth and the
sun in balance with the centrifugal force acting on the earth due
to its orbital motion around the sun. And because no friction
exists in the vacuum of space, these balanced forces will
continue for a very long time or until other cosmic forces
intervene.
In ancient times, when the law of gravity and celestial
mechanics were unknown, people had to answer the question:
“if everything is ultimately resting on the earth, then what is the
earth resting on?!” Hence, different cultures came up with
variations of the above (a)-(c) explanations using mythical
creatures with magical powers. The main reasons for coming up
with these erroneous explanations were lack of knowledge and
bad assumptions. We already talked briefly about some of the
knowledge they lacked. Some of the bad assumptions included
the assumption that space has intrinsic “up” and “down”
directions. And that objects, including earth itself, “naturally”
fall “down” (rather than being actively pulled towards another
object due to the gravitational force between them without
regard to an up or a down), as confirmed by their common
experiences on earth. Hence, they assumed that the earth has to
fall “down” in the absence of something holding it up. Based on
these assumptions, they had to devise an explanation about
what holds up the earth. So, they did.
The key lessons we learn from the above exercise are as
follows. One, unexplained phenomena need an explanation.
Two, lack of knowledge and/or the wrong assumptions produce
the wrong explanations. And three, alternative explanations
must actually explain what is missing from the others. We will
apply these key lessons to our question about the existence of
soul in the rest of this paper.
A number of related questions come to mind: What is the
nature of the soul, if it exists? Is it energy? Is it a force of
nature? Is it a contrived and imaginary construct to explain

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
what we cannot otherwise explain? We will revisit these
questions when we have established the necessary foundations.
And why do we even care about the existence, or not, of the
human soul? When we define the problem below in more
specific terms, we will realize that the current explanations fall
short. Hence, we have to come up with another explanation,
which happens to have major implications about our nature and
our goals and objectives in life.
This paper is structured in two parts. In Part I, we will
define and describe several foundational concepts. In Part II,
we will set out to use the results from Part I to prove the
existence and some of the characteristics of the human soul.
Concept of Soul or Spirit
Knowing what it is that we are discussing is always a good
start. So, let us start with examining what we mean by “soul” or
“spirit.” Spirits are highly abused creatures. These terms and the
loose concepts behind them have been used to mean many
things, some even contradictory in essence. We only present
some anecdotal evidence of these uses here for the purpose of
clarifying what is meant by the use of these terms in the present
paper.
The terms “soul” and “spirit” are sometimes used
interchangeably and sometimes in distinct ways. For example,
people talk about “the soul of a nation,” meaning the essential
qualities that define that nation. Sometimes we talk about a
“spiritual experience,” meaning a deeply and emotionally
gratifying or illuminating experience. Even today, the word
“ravani” in the Persian language means both mental/
psychological and spiritual. The reason for this close
association is that before the advent of psychology and
advancement of medical and biological sciences that shed light
on some of the workings of human mind and brain, the mental
faculty was believed to be the exclusive domain of the human

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
soul. So, a psychopath was thought to have a sick soul or spirit.
Similarly, soul and/or spirit have had varying associations with
the sacred, the mystical, the divine, and the like in different
cultural traditions. But probably the most commonly associated
concept with these terms is that of essence or core. In many
common usages of these terms, including the above examples,
the connotation of essence is clearly visible.
However, in this paper we will mainly use the term “soul”
and we mean something very specific by it. For our purposes,
the soul is defined as a non-physical entity in transcendental
communication with the brain, which differentiates humans
from animals and is the seat and source of general intelligence.
The Essential Questions
And now concerning thy question regarding the soul of
man and its survival after death. Know thou of a truth
that the soul, after its separation from the body, will
continue to progress until it attaineth the presence of
God, in a state and condition which neither the
revolution of ages and centuries, nor the changes and
chances of this world, can alter. — Bahá’u’lláh1
In the passage above, Bahá’u’lláh goes straight to the main
question. However, before getting there, we have to contend
with more elementary questions first. Now, with the above
definition of soul in mind, we can pose some essential questions
to guide our analysis.
The main one of these questions is this: Is there a human
soul? There are three main types of answers to an existential
question like this. A first type of answer is based on direct
facts. An example of this type is asking whether a cow has
horns. By direct observation of the fact that cows have horns,
we can answer this question. Since we have no direct or
objective visibility into the spiritual realm, if such realm even

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
exists, we cannot answer the question of the existence of
human soul on this basis.
A second type of answer is based on best explanation. This is
also referred to as Ockham’s razor, a rational principle
attributed to the 14th century British logician, William of
Ockham (c. 1287–1347), stating that among competing
hypotheses based on known facts the one with the fewest
unsupported assumptions is generally the best hypotheses, at
least until more facts are known or more assumptions are
verified. The “razor” alludes to the operation of cutting away,
figuratively
speaking,
of
unnecessary
assumptions
and
explanations to come up with the remaining best explanation.
An example of this is two competing hypotheses for explaining
a traffic jam by either assuming time of day rush hour or
occurrence of an accident. This is a promising path for us.
And a third type of answer to existential questions is based
on inherent relationships. An example of this is knowing an
energy source must exist if work is observed being performed,
because work cannot be performed unless energy is being
applied. This is also a promising path for us.
Hence, the analysis that follows is based on a combination
of the latter two types of answers.
Other related questions to the question of the existence of
soul include: What is the soul? Why is it needed? Why not just
the brain to explain higher intelligence? Why would humans
have a soul but not animals? Is the soul just a contrivance to
explain other things such as immortality or another world? And
the questions related to brain can be repeated for computers
and processors.
To answer the above questions, we need to define what
intelligence is, what thinking means, how physical computing
systems, including the brain, work, and how the soul fits into
the picture.

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
PART I: Foundational Concepts
“Make things as simple as possible, but not simpler!” This
quote, attributed to Albert Einstein, is essentially the flip side
of Ockham’s razor. While Ockham’s razor helps us set the
upper limits of complexity in our hypotheses, Einstein’s razor,
as this quote is sometimes called, helps us set the lower limits.
The implication of Einstein’s razor for us is that we need at
least a certain number of foundational concepts to properly
analyze and answer these questions without losing any essential
information or knowledge in the process based on which we
may come up with the wrong hypotheses.
We surmise that the following foundations will be needed: a
definition of our general approach and methodology, a clear
model of thinking, a definition of intelligence, a simple model
of brain and its operation, a brief description of some of the
methods and limitations of Artificial Intelligence (AI), and the
central role of analogy in intelligence.
Methodology and Approach
The methodology employed includes a combination of
scientific knowledge and rational reasoning, each entailing a
number of analytical methods. Several particular analytical
tools and/or procedure are essential for any proper and reliable
analysis. Sometimes these tools are explicitly defined and laid
out and sometimes they are in the form of unwritten or implicit
assumptions. No matter explicit or implicit, if one or more of
these tools are missing uncertainty and error will creep into the
analysis and resulting hypotheses. These procedures and tools
include at least a clear statement of the purpose and objectives
of the analysis, domain models (partly determined by the
objectives), clear definition and/or specification of terms and
concepts, and basic domain principles. Other analytical tools
and actions, such as determining the right criteria to know
success or failure of results, rules of logic that govern all
analytical processes, probability and statistics, and many other

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
procedures are often required, which we have to skip discussing
in the interest of brevity and focus. Knowing the purpose and
objectives of the analysis allows the determination of an
appropriate domain or system model, the applicable principles,
and appropriate criteria for the application of the principles.
A model of something in a particular domain generally
includes the system components, the relationships between
those components, and the domain operating principles. For
example, the model of a democratic government may include
elected leaders, an electorate or voters, laws governing
elections, freedom of speech and assembly, etc. A model is
generally not unique and changes with the application. For
example, if we want to analyze a democratic government for
judicial effectiveness we have to use a certain model of the
government and certain set of principles and criteria, while if
we want to analyze it for economic productivity, we have to
use a different model.
Definition, and more generally, specification of concepts
and terms is not only critical to any analysis, but required.
Specification is always in the context of a chosen model. That’s
why the definition of the same thing may be different with
respect to different domain models. Without having an
adequate specification, we quite literally do not know what we
are talking about. Let’s see why. The meaning of “definition” is
often incompletely understood. More often than not,
“definition” is thought to be mere naming or labeling of a
concept or a thing. But it is more than that. A “definition” is a
named set of attributes or characteristics. Like models,
definitions are not unique or fixed and change according to the
purpose of the definition. For example, if we have the set of
attributes: {a frame, two in-line wheels connected to the frame,
a handle connected to the frame, a pedal, and a chain connected
to the rear wheel}, and we assign a name to it, such as “Bicycle,”
then we have a definition of a bicycle. Now we can assign a
different name, such as “Zebra,” but the list of attributes still
specify a bicycle as we commonly know it. This point is

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
important because we cannot change the nature of an entity
merely by renaming it, as is sometimes done by unscrupulous
politicians or sales people to mislead people by saying one thing
but meaning another. Two entities with different sets of
attributes are still different even if we call them by the same
name. For example, renaming a cow as a “horse,” does not make
a cow a horse, in spite of some obvious similarities between the
two.
All relationships and operations in a particular domain are
based on the principles that govern that domain. For example,
if we are analyzing a natural eco system, then we must know the
important principles that govern eco systems such as food
chain, reproduction rates, existence of water, territorial
behaviors of animals, etc. Once we know some of the relevant
principles, we can apply them to a particular eco system, such
as the American Rocky mountains. Similarly, other domains of
discourse have their own principles.
The general approach taken here is the identification of a
property, a behavior, or other characteristic, which cannot be
explained by other than a non-physical soul. But, how do we
identify such a characteristic, if one even exists? A good
starting point may be the sharp distinction between man and
other animals, speaking from a materialistic point of view that
considers man as just another animal.
Besides some anatomical and physiological differences, and
even though by widespread scientific accounts we share
anywhere between 95% and 99% of our DNA with
chimpanzees, there is absolutely no comparison between the
general intelligence and cognitive abilities of humans and any
other animal, including chimps, dolphins, crows, and octopi, as
the acknowledged intelligence champions of the wild. What
explains this enormous difference? the 1% difference in our
DNA? May be. But, this is not an argument for or against. It is
merely an observation looking for an explanation. What we
want to find out is whether such differences can be explained

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
by biology alone. Hence, the essential question boils down to
the source of our general intelligence.
Science and Rationality
With the ubiquitous success of science and scientific
theories, especially over the last couple of centuries or so, many
people have come to believe that “scientific” is synonymous
with “valid,” and even further, that science is the only path to
the truth. That is, a theory is only valid if it is scientific and
anything that is not scientific is invalid. However, even though
science does cover a vast area of human intellectual endeavors
and discoveries, based on our brief discussion of the scientific
method below, it does not cover all types of analysis. Science
chiefly operates using inductive reasoning. A whole class of
rational analysis, which is based on deductive reasoning
fundamentally lies outside the domain of science. Simply put,
science is a subset of the rational analysis, not vice versa.
Hence, everything valid is not necessarily scientific and
anything that is not scientific is not necessarily invalid. Of
course, scientific discovery is a complex business involving all
manners of rational activity at different stages, including
deductive
reasoning.
Nevertheless,
the
central
rational
component and the overarching method of scientific endeavor
is inductive reasoning.
The scientific method may be generally formulated as
follows:2
1. Make observations
2. Formulate a hypothesis to explain the observations
3. Test
or
verify
the
hypothesis
using
controlled
experiments
The scientific method is an inductive process: we go from
specific observations to general conclusions. Inductive
reasoning is by nature, strictly speaking, inconclusive and
evolutionary. The conclusion is only as good as the current

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
collection of observations allows. The next observation may
alter the conclusion or theory. For example, if one observes a
sequence of measurements of some quantity (for example, the
temperature of an object) such as 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, ..., and is
then asked to predict what the next number in the sequence
would be, he may present the hypothesis that this pattern is
defined by the sequence of even numbers, and thus the next
number would be 14. However, if the next number revealed in
the observed sequence happens to be 25, then the assumed
hypothesis turns out to be wrong and a different hypotheses
will be needed. This inductive phenomenon is well known in the
history of science and is behind all scientific progress: as new
data are discovered, scientific explanations evolve to explain
both the old and the new data and correct the deficiencies and
errors in the old theories.
It is noteworthy to recognize that error is a built-in feature
of science and the driver of scientific progress through a highly
intelligent and systematic trial and error process. So, it is rather
ironic that what some have elevated to the station of ultimate
criterion for discovering and judging the truth, thrives on error
as an inherent characteristic.
The inductive process is markedly different from the
deductive process. In contrast to the inductive process, the
deductive process, which is a main component of rational
reasoning, is conclusive and fixed. Once a truth is deductively
proven, it will never change, in contrast to scientific
discoveries and theories. That's why ancient mathematical
theories in geometry and algebra, or other areas of
mathematics, once proven, have never been “improved.” The
area of a circle, A, represented as π r2, where r is the radius of
the circle and π is a constant (3.14...), was discovered and
proven deductively, not scientifically. They did not cut out an
assortment of circular discs and measure their areas in a
laboratory to come up with this formula. Samples or observed
circles, although examined for insight, did not play a pivotal or
necessary role in proving this formula; deductive reasoning did.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
As a matter of fact, this formula may be derived and proven by
dividing a circle into an infinite number of slices, like a pizza.
But since no physical object, such as sample discs, can be
divided infinitely, the proof is abstract and purely rational, not
scientific, strictly speaking.
Going a step further, it can be a rude awakening for some to
discover that mathematics itself, the bedrock of all science and
scientific endeavors, is not scientific! By its very nature,
deductive knowledge is absolute and immutable within the
system in which it was proven, while scientific knowledge is
inherently evolutionary and constantly changing.
A closely related question is what does it mean to prove
something, such as the existence of human soul? How do we
know we have proven what we set out to prove? Having a
“proof” generally means a valid conclusion is reached about a
statement. Mathematically, the proof of a theorem means that
the theorem, as defined, is true and that it contains no errors.
For example, a theorem in geometry may state that the sum of
internal angles of a triangle is 180º. Given the definitions of a
triangle, angle, and sum, it can be mathematically proven that
this theorem is true. Proof is based on the deductive process. In
contrast, a scientific theory is only inductively verified, not
proved, as discussed above.
The existence of a proof requires two main elements: facts
and principles. The process of deduction, also known as
reasoning, is the application of known principles or rules,
which themselves may be previously proven theorems, to facts
to prove a new theorem. Thus, for a proof of the existence of
soul, facts related to the supposed properties of the human soul
are needed that require an explanation, and principles are
needed to show the new theorem is consistent with other known
principles. In his many discourses about the soul, Abdul-Bahá
did not shy away from propounding rational proofs of the
existence of soul based on facts and principles, some of which
are briefly recounted here.

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
As such, because of the obvious limitations of observability
and testability, two of the essential components of the
scientific method, imposed by a purportedly non-physical soul,
the proof of its existence is rational in nature with a good dose
of scientific knowledge thrown in the mix to provide the facts
for the argument.
A few words are in order about what does not constitute
proof. Stories, personal experiences, conjectures, and other
similar evidences, even if true, do not rise to the level of proof.
This assertion is not meant to belittle such evidence or aver
their invalidity, but rather to distinguish them from a logical
proof.
The Primacy of Logic
In the analysis of subjects that have strong connections to
science, in reality or in our perception, the following discussion
is of prime importance because it clarifies the position of logic
with respect to science. Logic is the glue that binds together
other knowledge to come up with valid conclusions and is the
one indispensable tool of rational discourse. As such, logic has
priority over science, laws of physics, biology, the brain, and
any other area of human endeavor. Let’s see why.
Logic is, at its very core, a specification of the existential
requirements of any conclusion or result. Mathematically, three
necessary and sufficient logical operators exist to specify any
logical statement: AND, OR, and NOT. There is a
mathematically equivalent single operator, NAND, that may
serve the same purpose, but the original set of three operators
is more intuitive. The AND operator specifies all the
requirements (among those elements being considered) for a
true conclusion, the OR operator specifies one or more of the
requirements (that is, all are not necessary) for a true
conclusion, and NOT specifies an element that must not be true
for a conclusion to be true. Simple examples can illustrate the
concept: water AND soil are needed for a flower to grow; you

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
can go to the store by bicycle OR on foot; a door that is NOT
locked can be opened. In each of the foregoing examples, the
operator is shown in underlined bold font, the requirements are
shown in italics, and the conclusion or effect resulting from the
requirements is shown in normal text. Thus, as we initially
observed, the logical operators specify the requirements of
existence of the result (or a true conclusion, in the context of
information processing).
Logic is also like an information pipe, to use a metaphor. It
is content-invariant and knowledge-agnostic. Logic is not
concerned with what specific subject we are reasoning about. It
also is not concerned about the correctness of the knowledge
we use in our reasoning. For example, if we state that “an
elephant fits in a tea cup; a tea cup fits in my pocket, therefore,
an elephant fits in my pocket,” we are using perfectly valid
logic and correct reasoning, but with faulty knowledge. This is
known as valid but unsound logic (or reasoning) due to the
incorrect data or knowledge.
However, logic is not quite as simple as one may be lead to
believe from the foregoing examples. What we briefly discussed
above is propositional logic, dealing with logical constants.
Higher order predicate logic, such as the first order predicate
logic, the second order predicate logic, etc., deal with logical
functions and quantifiers and are well-known subjects in the
field
of
mathematical
logic.
The
difference
between
propositional logic and predicate logic, apart from technical
mathematical criteria such as whether or not they are consistent
and complete systems, is that propositional logic is concerned
with logical constants whose truth values are fixed. While
predicate logic deals with logical variables and functions. This
is loosely analogous to arithmetic and algebra, where arithmetic
is used to operate on constant numbers and algebra is used to
deal with variable numbers and functions of numbers.
Just as the complexity of advanced mathematics does not
change the fact that it is basically a study of quantities and how

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
they are related to each other, the complexity level of logic does
not change the fact that it is about existential conditions of
rational conclusions.
How does all this show the primacy of logic over science and
the laws of physics? It is a question of dependence: for any
entities A and B, if B depends on A, then A must exist first and
B can only exist afterwards. Existence of an entity precedes
every property of the entity, because no other property of the
entity can exist before the entity itself exists. Since logic
defines the existential conditions of any entity, it comes first.
That includes all physical phenomena and laws of nature. We
may have gotten a bit too abstract here, so let’s come back to
earth, to a more concrete and practical level. As far as we know
at this point of human advancement, the laws of nature, such as
the laws of thermodynamics, gravity, quantum physics, and
other such fundamental laws clearly underlie the physical reality
we perceive. Our understanding of these laws change over time,
yet the logical rules we use in our reasoning to rationally
understand and analyze these very laws of nature remain
unchanged.
Conversely,
no
matter
how
our
scientific
understanding of the laws of physics or nature change, our
logical methods do not. Thus, as far as our cognition is
concerned, our understanding of natural phenomena through
science is dependent upon logic, but the rules of logic are not
dependent on our understanding of the laws of nature. Hence,
the priority and primacy of logic.
Thinking: A Useful Model
Nothing can be understood in vacuum. Understanding
requires a frame of reference, or more generally, a model within
which a phenomenon can be placed, defined and analyzed. Since
we made general intelligence and its source the centerpiece of
our discourse and solely a property of the soul (no pun
intended), we need to clearly define and characterize the
context of intelligence, namely, thinking. Intelligence is the
mental tool with which we think. But what is thinking?

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
We can start with a simple definition of thinking and
develop and expand it to provide a rich context to understand
intelligence. At the most fundamental and elementary level,
thinking is the mental or symbolic counterpart of some external
phenomenon, usually, the reality. When you feel thirsty and
think to yourself: “I am going to get some water to drink,”
what are you doing? The mere fact of thinking does not get any
water into your body, nor does it quench your thirst. You are
simulating reality in advance. The electrochemical impulses and
interactions between the neurons in your brain, that is, the
thought of drinking water, is not the physical act of drinking
water, it is a symbolic or mental prelude to it. But thinking
doesn’t have to be about some action in the future. Memories
of the past or impressions of what may be happening to you
now, have similar relationships to reality. They are symbolic
representations of something real that happened in the past or
is happening now. Nor is thinking limited to actual events.
Thinking can also be about potential reality, things which may
exist or happen later, even if such thinking is pure fantasy and
cannot happen in reality, such as thinking about time travel.
Put slightly more precisely, thinking is the tracking of reality in
time, because everything, including real events and thinking
about those events all flow along the axis of time.
We can apply this definition of thinking to all examples of
our everyday experiences as well as deeper thoughts. For
example, imagine what you do and how it tracks reality when
you are planning for shopping: you mentally follow your travel
route to the store, visualize market shelves, make payment, and
travel back, all in your mind. Similarly, you are mentally
tracking reality when you remember a birthday party, or doing
an analysis of molecular behavior in a chemical reaction.
What is reality?
According to some, reality is in the eyes of the beholder. And
there is a certain amount of truth to this statement. However,
something must be there to behold in the first place, even if

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
different people see the same thing differently. With this
notion in mind, we now have to define reality in broad enough
terms to allow for different perceptions of it by different
people while preserving the integrity of our definition.
If we define thinking in terms of reality, then we must know
what reality is or at least how to characterize its important
attributes as related to thinking. The real world may be
accurately characterized by a model comprising a set of objects
and the relationships between those objects. This model may
have some grey areas that may be regarded as problematic or
awkward, but our purpose here is not to have a discourse about
the details of reality but to define what thinking means.
In this model of reality we have two components, which have
to be described. Simply put, an object is a “thing,” an entity
made of matter. This definition of an object is broader than it
may look at first glance. Suffice it to say, that all systems,
living or inanimate, regardless of form or function are
ultimately made of atoms. Even energy, in all its forms and
manifestations, by Einstein’s theory of special relativity
(specifically by E = mc2, where E is energy, m is mass of matter,
and c is the speed of light), is equivalent to matter. This latter
observation enlists electrical signals, electromagnetic waves,
and other such seemingly non-material entities under the banner
of “objects.”
Relationships constitute a very broad concept indeed, which
fully merit their position as one of the two components of
reality. Intuitively defined, a relationship is a “connection” of
some sort between two entities. Such entities may themselves be
objects or other relationships. This connection may be more
formally defined as an overlap between two sets that serve as
models for the two entities, as shown in Figure 1 below by the
white or blank elements. Any entity such as object, system,
concept, physical and abstract relationships, thoughts, and the
like may be modeled by a set of attributes, the attributes being
features, parts, behaviors or any other descriptive parameter

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
that can describe and specify the entity being modeled by the
set. When two such sets overlap, that is, when there are some
common attributes in the two sets, the overlap constitutes a
relationship between the two. In other words, this overlap is a
connection between the two entities, relating the two. Given
the above model, we can also conclude and recognize that
objects and relationships are interdependent and inherent: you
cannot have one without the other.



Figure 1: Relationships represented as the overlap of two sets.
As it turns out, relationships, or rather understanding them,
play an essential role in intelligence. To begin with,
relationships are of two types: material, physical, or observable
relationships
and
abstract
or
rational
ones.
Material
relationships are those which are observable via some sensory
facilities such as vision or other types of sensors. For example,
the relationship between the frame and the wheels of a bicycle
is readily visible in that the frame is connected to the wheels
and is supported by them. The defining property of a material
relationship is that it is physical in nature and thus sensible or
observable using some physical property, be the property
geometric, chemical, mechanical, electrical, thermal, or the like.
Other examples of physical/material relationships include those
between leaves and a tree, riverbed and river, and the
movements of clouds by wind.
Abstract or rational relationships, on the other hand, have
no physical manifestation and are entirely intellectual in

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
essence. To illustrate, returning to our example for the
distinction of science and rationality, a circle includes many
material as well as abstract relationships. The uniformly curved
contour of the perimeter of a physical circular object is a
visible and material trait, while the relationship between its
radius and its area is abstract (r2). Such abstract relationship is
not visible; it is not sensible; it is not physically detectable by
any means; it has no physical existence. It has only rational
existence. That is, no arrangement of matter can manifest a
rational relationship in and of itself without the use of rational
faculty. Other examples of rational relationships include those
embedded in geometric theories, the economic law of supply
and demand, and the design of software.
However, the most essential distinction between a physical
relationship and a rational one derives from what it means to be
physical. Simply put, a physical entity is one that occupies space
and is affected by time. Any and all physical entities, be they
physical objects or physical relationships, take some space and
age
with
time.
Unlike
physical
relationships,
rational
relationships occupy no space and are unaffected by passage of
time. The formula for the area of a circle is wholly independent
of spatial dimensions and does not change or decay with the
passage of time; it is today precisely what it was at the age of
the dinosaurs. As such, rational relationships are outside the
domain of the physical world as characterized by time and space.
Other phenomena are encountered in nature such as energy,
force, process, and others. What about these phenomena, which
are also encountered in the real world? Can these also be
classified as either objects or relationships? Yes. Some of them
like energy, are forms of matter as explained above and may
thus be considered as objects, broadly defined. Other
phenomena like force and process are relationships that result
from the interactions of objects. For example, force exerted
between two objects results from a difference in energy density
levels (Joules of energy per gram of mass) of the two objects.
For instance, the force of impact results from objects moving

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
at different speeds and thus having different kinetic energy
density levels.
We have talked about the simple components of reality,
namely, objects and relationships, but what about reality itself,
its model? Equally simple, is the model of reality defined as an
infinite mathematical space (as opposed to our physical three-
dimensional space) of objects and relationships represented by
a network graph with objects as vertices (circles) and
relationships connecting them (lines), as shown in Figure 2.












Figure 2: A model of reality: a network graph with objects as
vertices and relationships as edges.
As indicated above, both the objects and the relationships
may be either physical (shown as solid lines) or abstract (shown
as dotted lines).
In this model, anything that exists, an animal, a system,
various natural phenomena, atoms, man-made system like
economic and legal system, and the like can also be represented
as a subset of this space, namely, several objects with the
relationships between them. This model has uncountably
infinite objects and uncountably infinite relationships between
each two objects. The details of these assertions are beyond the
scope of this paper, however, recognizing that an object can be
created from any combination of other objects, and

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
relationships are created based on any defined attribute of
those objects, it should be apparent that the mathematical
space used for modeling reality is infinite.
So, what does all this have to do with thinking and the
human soul? Well, let’s first continue with the meaning of
thinking where we left off above, and search for our souls later.
Thinking is the process of traversal of this mathematical
space via the relationship pathways and the tools provided by
logic, while intelligence is the ability to traverse. Any example
of common (or uncommon) thinking fits well with these
definitions. For instance, thinking about navigating objects in a
room while walking, an election process, steps in solving a
problem, or designing a can opener, all involve traversing this
space via various relevant relationships that we observe.
A Model of the Brain
At the most basic level, we can model the brain simply as a
system with inputs and outputs, as shown in Figure 3 below.
Many systems, no matter how complex or from what field of
study, are modeled this way because of its simplicity, accuracy,
and clarity.


Figure 3: A model of systems also suitable as a basic model of
the brain.
Let’s apply this model to the brain in more specific terms.
The central nervous system, the most important part of which
is the brain, is an information processing system with three
major cognitive functions: information collection, integration,
and storage; information processing (thinking); and new

System
Input
Output

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
information production (discovery). Brain is also a controller
of the body parts and internal systems, but this is not a
cognitive function.
Brain’s external behavior can be characterized as an input-
process-output system, where the inputs are the information
provided by the five senses, the process is the processing of
information, and output is the behavior of the body and new
knowledge.
The input to the brain includes the five senses: sight, hearing,
smell, touch, and taste, as schematically shown in Figure 4
below.

Figure 4: The five senses as inputs to the system of brain.
Artificial Intelligence: A Few Notes
A common, but potentially misleading, definition of
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is the ability to imitate human
intelligence. AI has existed in various forms and incarnations
since ancient times. The technological form of AI is only a few
decades old. In the old times, AI was not known as “AI,” but
rather as mythical creatures or wishful objects such as dragons,
demons, mirrors, moving statues (in those days they were not
called robots), crystal balls, and the like, which could mimic
human intelligence in some fashion. Later as human knowledge
and capabilities increased, various forms of mechanized
intelligence started to emerge.

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
This brings us to the mid 20th century, really 1960’s, when
serious AI started with the invention and development of
digital computers. Such wishful thinking, which was always
“just 20 years away” peaked in the 1980’s and 1990’s, most
notably in the U.S. and Japan, which had developed some of the
most powerful supercomputers of the day, such as Cray1, Cray-
2, Cray-X-MP, and Cray Y-MP in the U.S., and SX-3/44R and
Hitachi SR2201 in Japan. These computers used multiple
processors working in parallel to provide many Gigaflops and
teraflops (billions or trillions of Floating Point Operations) per
second.
Even though to this date computers have continued on their
path of ever more processors and teraflops, towards the end of
1990’s and early 2000’s the wishful dreamers of the human-like
artificial intelligence were rudely awakened by a gradual dose of
reality. After about 40-50 years of thinking that true AI that
could rival or surpass human intelligence was right around the
corner, true general intelligence was not forthcoming. Sure
enough, success abounded in limited cognitive domains such as
chess playing software that defeated even the best of human
chess masters; “expert systems,” as domain-specific software
are known, that could analyze seismic waveforms in oil and gas
exploration; speech synthesizers and recognizers with 95% or
more accuracy, and the like. But, general intelligence that works
in sophisticated new fields, generates new and accurate theories
about
various
phenomena,
and
displays
common-sense
reasoning, eluded such age-old AI dreams.
The modern technologically based AI banks on the idea that
intelligence is the same as computation and merely having more
and more processing power will ensure higher and higher levels
of intelligence. Hence, the AI field views thinking purely as
information processing. Thus, any system, live or inanimate,
that has more processing power can be potentially more
intelligent. Thus, the logical conclusion based on this
assumption is that computers will inevitably surpass human

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
intelligence when they amass sufficient processing power. Well,
this assumption is a serious and largely unrecognized flaw.
As we shall see later, there is more to general intelligence
than processing power or computation. It will require visibility
of abstract relationships, and less obviously, life and emotions.
However, this paper is more focused on the ability to see
abstract relationships than the life and emotional aspects.
Analogy and Cognition: Thinking Model Extended
We started by defining thinking as tracking reality in our
minds modeled as traversing the graph in the reality object-
relationship space model. But there are other important aspects
to thinking within this model. One of the most important
aspects of this model is how the traversal is performed. The
traversal does not simply start at point A and continue to
another point B within the graph. Multiple sub-graphs (subsets
in the reality space model) may be traversed in the process of
one thought. And these sub-graphs may not be directly
connected or adjacent. But how these sub-graphs are connected
is through analogy. Let’s see how.
Analogy plays a central role in abstract thought, as we will
see in Part II below. For now, let’s see precisely what analogy
means and how it is related to the reality space model. At a
basic level, analogy is a recognition of abstract similarity
(physical or tangible similarity is not analogy) and means
applying a particular relationship from one context to another
unrelated context. For example, we may analogize the legs on a
horse to the wheels on a car. Even though the legs of the horse
have no physical similarity (or connection) to the wheels of a
car, in substance or in action, but they perform at least some of
the same functions, namely, supporting the body and providing
motion. hence we see and can apply the same relationship
between a horse and its legs to a car and its wheels. However,
analogy goes a lot further than this simple I.Q. (Intelligent
Quotient) test question.

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
More
precisely,
analogy
is
about
categorization.
Categorization may seem like a curious concept to occupy such
an esteemed position in relation to intelligence. But, what is
even more curious is that categorization actually defines a very
important type of relationship in the model of reality. To see
why this is, we need to first take an excursion from this thread
of thought and then come back to it, as we often do.
Trees of Reality
This can be a rather complicated excursion if we get into too
much detail, so we will suffice with the general concept. In the
object-relationship space model of reality, a graph was
described in which objects were connected to each other via
relationships. Going one step further, we recognize that there
are different kinds of relationships in this model. In a sense we
can say those lines representing relationships in the reality
model of Figure 2, are not just lines. Each one may have an
internal structure of its own, like a sky scraper that from far
away may look like a thick line, but up close it has additional
features. Two of the most important and general kinds of
relationships are best represented by the System and Type Trees
described below.
A very prominent and invariable truth is that the world of
creation is characterized by limits. If there were no limits, quite
literally nothing could be distinguished from another, nothing
could be quantified. Indeed, without limits it would not even
be possible to define anything, because defining something
requires identifying its boundaries. Given this truth, anything
can be considered a system having a number of components,
while every component itself may be regarded as a system
having its own components, and every system may be regarded
as a component in a bigger system. This view logically follows
from the concept of limits because a system is a set of entities
with a boundary around them and so, everything with a
boundary qualifies as a system, and that means everything.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
A couple of illustrative examples should convince the reader
that this system-oriented view is valid and accurate about all
things, processes, and phenomena. Consider an object, any
object, such as house. It is immediately obvious that a house is
composed of rooms as its components, while a room itself is a
system with components of its own such as its walls, and the
walls are systems in their own rights having bricks as their
components, and so on. In the other direction, a house is a
component of a system of neighborhood, and the system of
neighborhood is itself a component of a system of city, and so
on. As another, wholly different kind of example, take a
paragraph in a book. It is a system the components of which are
the sentences. In turn, the sentences are each a system with
words as their components, and the words have letters as their
components, and so on. Again, in the other direction, a
paragraph may be component in a system of a page, while a
page is a component in a chapter, and so on. This concept is
equally applicable to any processes the steps of which are its
components, and the process itself is but a step in a bigger
process. These very different examples illustrate the absolutely
general reach and applicability of system structure.
This system structure aspect of reality is illustrated in Figure
5, below with the aid of the System Tree. The System Tree is an
upside-down (with root at the top) and Specific-To-General
(STG) tree, where its root represents something specific, and as
we traverse down the tree towards its leaves, the components
become progressively more generic and general. For example, a
specific house is distinguished from other houses, but a brick in
the wall is the same as any other brick in any other wall. The
System Tree is applicable to processes as well, where each
process has steps of its own and the whole process may be a
step in a bigger process.
Hence, any entity in the world can be represented by a
System Tree, which is not unique, incidentally. Many System
Trees may be constructed for the same entity depending on
what we want to model and what boundaries or aspect of the

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
entity we are interested in. For example, a car is a component in
an industrial system as well as an economic system. Hence a car
can be a component in two different system. Actually, any
object is a member of infinitely many systems.

Figure 5: The System Tree - Specific To General (STG)
Just like any entity can be represented by a System Tree, it
can also be represented by a Type Tree, simultaneously. But,
what is a Type Tree and why is it as general as a System Tree? A
Type Tree may be represented by another upside-down tree, this
time, General-To-Specific (GTS; root is most general).
Consider a set of properties that define a type. It doesn’t
matter what we call the type, it is the set of properties that
matter. Then any other entity that includes the same set of
properties belongs to that type. When an entity has the same set
of properties plus additional properties, then that entity is of
that type, but a more specific version of it. Since every entity
has some set of properties, then every entity has some type (or
is of some type). This concept may be a bit abstract. So, again,
we use a couple of examples to illustrate the concept and also
show its absolute applicability.
As a first illustration, consider our favorite example, a
house. With reference to Figure 6, below, a Structure, which

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
has some properties such as being rigid, being free-standing,
and having a fixed relationship between its parts, is a root type,
in this example. Traversing down from the root, we encounter a
Building type, which is still a structure with all the properties of
a Structure type, but with some added properties such as some
facilities for human use and interaction like doors, stairs,
lighting, etc. This makes a Building type just a more specific
version of a Structure type. Moving further down, we get to a
Residential Building type, which is still a more specific Building
type and a Structure type, again, with some added properties
like having facilities for human habitation, such as a kitchen, a
bathroom, heating, etc. And finally a House type is a
Residential Building type, a Building type, and a Structure type,
albeit, a more specific version of them. Traversing the tree
from the root upwards, we observe that a structure can itself
be part of a more general type, such as Inanimate Objects type.
For our second illustration, we revert to our literary
example. A Paragraph can be a root type in some defined Type
Tree. An English Paragraph, is a more specific version of a
Paragraph type with the added property of being in English
language, and an English Introduction Paragraph is still a more
specific type of the above types.
So, it is clear that because every entity has a set of
properties, every entity defines a type and by adding or
subtracting properties from the set we arrive at more specific
or more general versions of the same type. And again, like the
System Tree, the Type Tree is not unique and an entity can be
part of infinitely many Type Trees depending on what
properties we focus on.
Another term for type is category, which sometimes has
more familiar connotations for our purposes. A rather subtle
question that arises is the difference between the mental act of
categorization of various phenomena based on their abstract
properties and the similar physical effects those properties. For
example, a human may mentally categorize predators, such as

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
wolves and lions, according to their territorial and pack
behaviors. However, a prey animal, such as an antelope, is
affected by these behaviors without having to understand or
mentally categorize them in an abstract manner. Recognizing
this distinction is important, lest we forget the abstract nature
of categorization.

Figure 6: The Type Tree - General To Specific To (GTS)
The categorization or classification in the Type Tree is done
based on one or a combination of several parameters. This
means for a given parameter, each discrete value can result in a
new sub-category. For example, when categorizing animals, if
the parameter is habitat, then each different type of habitat
results in a different category of animals. This means the
category of “sea animals” will include whale (mammal), tuna
(fish) and octopus (invertebrate), among others. But if the
parameter is being warm- or cold-blooded, then the category of
“warm-blooded animals” will include whale and pigeon, among
others. This parameter(s) is called a basis. So, different basis
result in different categorizations of the same objects or
concepts.
Now, let’s go back to the relationship between thinking and
categorization. When we think about something we actually

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
think about its properties, which determine its form, behavior,
interactions with other things, reaction to various elements,
and anything else we want to discuss about that thing. But since
properties also define types or categories of things, inevitably
we categorize things that we think about, whether implicitly or
explicitly. As you might remember, analogy is all about abstract
similarity. So, analogy can be expressed in terms of the Type
Tree. By definition, two entities that belong to the same
category
(or
Type
Tree)
share
some
properties
or
characteristics. As properties can be highly abstract, so can
types. For example, the category of “hard” can include entities
as diverse as hammer, water (as in hard water), exam,
circumstances, direction (as in making a hard right turn) and
many others. Note that none of these entities have any physical
or apparent relationship to each other, yet they all belong to the
same abstract type of “hard.” As such, we can define a Type
Tree with the root being the most general understanding of
“hard” (say, with the abstract property of having great
influence on other things) and the other lower level nodes
become progressively more specific types of “hard.”
An important result of categorization is that when two
entities are determined to belong to the same category, then the
known properties of one entity suddenly becomes applicable to
the other one, which might hitherto have been unknown. For
example, many geometric properties of circles belong to the
same category as properties of electrical signals (such as
frequency, phase angles, trigonometric relationships, and the
like), while the shape “circle” has very little to do with the
physical phenomenon of “electricity”, outside of their rational
or abstract relationships. As such, the geometric properties of a
circle are suddenly seen to be applicable to the analysis of
electrical signals (or other types of signals like optical ones).
This realization greatly facilitates, nay, makes possible, the
analysis of signal processing, without which our understanding
and application of electrical signals would only be primitive
and limited to trivial outward observations.

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
Categorization is not a mere cognitive tool or trick to make
our job of thinking easier. Abstract thought is all but
impossible without the use of categorization of everything that
we encounter. We use existing categories or modify them or
create new ones all the time and then catalog everything
accordingly, so, we know what to do with them based on the
category they are in. Otherwise, we would have to reinvent
every thought every time which, would bring our thoughts, and
everything that depends on our thoughts, such as new insights,
understandings, theories, discoveries, inventions, etc., to a
grinding halt. An equally important function of categories is
that they help us filter out things that do not belong to a
current category of interest and focus on the task at hand. This
is not a trivial benefit given the massive amounts of irrelevant
information in our environment that are always at ready to act
as noise to the information of interest.
An interesting thing about categories is that all basic
categories originate from tangible things because the origin of
our knowledge and our initial experience with a particular
category starts with our senses. The reason for this origin is
that we generalize and build categories starting from the
tangible, specific and simple, leading up to the more abstract,
general and complex. This observation is in accord with Abdu’l-
Bahá’s elucidation that: “A thing cannot be grasped by the
intelligence except when it is clothed in an intelligible form;
otherwise, it is but an effort of the imagination.” [SAQ 115]
Another confirmation of the fundamental importance of
categorization in cognition and thinking has surfaced recently
in a book named Surfaces and Essences, by authors and
professors Douglas Hofstadter and Emmanuel Sander. In this
book, Hofstadter and Sander spend considerable time to lay out
a foundation for their thesis. They spend the rest of the book
to go through a great deal of detail about the many facets of
categorization in the context of human thought.3 More
specifically,
Hofstadter
and
Sander
start
out
by
characterization of “Analogy as the Core of Cognition.”4 Then,

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
they proceed to lay down the foundations for their thesis by
regarding “Categorization and Analogy-making as the Roots of
Thinking.”5 Interestingly enough, they also use simple drawings,
similar to the Type Tree described above, to depict some of
these concepts.6
And so, our enhanced model of thinking includes not only
traversing the object-relationship reality space, but also making
our traversal more comprehensive and faster using the power of
analogy to connect different subsets of this space together.
PART - II: Proof of The Existence of Soul
We have established some important foundational concepts.
Now is time to apply these concepts to prove the existence and
immortality of human soul. In this part, we will further
complete our model of reality with additional structural
refinements as explained by Abdu’l-Bahá. We will also briefly
review some of the proofs of the existence of soul by Abdu’l-
Bahá. Next, our brain model is upgraded to allow for spiritual
activities such as abstract relationship recognition. However,
all these will distinguish humans from animals for most part,
but what about computers? To answer this question, we will
extend our reasoning to show that machines are also excluded
from the domain of general intelligence and rational
relationships. Finally, we conclude that the human soul is
immortal.
Unity of Existence and the four Kingdoms
An ancient philosophical theme is unity. Indeed, even
without a precise definition, we can see some form of unity
underlying all things in one way or another. A rather practical
definition of unity among a number of seemingly diverse things
is broad commonality. In that commonality, these diverse
things are united. Imagine all the diverse cars in the world
which, are all united by sharing the common characteristics of
all cars. Without delving too deeply into this concept, as it is

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
not the subject of our discussion here, let’s examine the
greatest unity of all: the unity of existence.
... this mineral belongs to the mineral kingdom; however
far it may rise, it can never comprehend the power of
growth. The plants, the trees, whatever progress they
may make, cannot conceive of the power of sight or the
powers of the other senses; and the animal cannot
imagine the condition of man -- that is to say, his
spiritual powers. [SAQ 221]
In several passages in his writings and utterances, including
the above, Abdu’l-Bahá divides the world into four concentric
“kingdoms” or realms. These kingdoms include the Mineral
Kingdom, the Plant Kingdom, the Animal Kingdom, and the
Human Kingdom, each with its own special power. The power
of the Mineral Kingdom is its physical strength, the power of
the Plant Kingdom is growth, the power of Animal Kingdom is
senses and integration of information from the senses, and the
power of the Human Kingdom is general intelligence.
These kingdoms are further arranged in order from lowest to
highest forms and capabilities, where each higher kingdom has
the powers of all the lower ones and comprehend them, but not
vice versa. So, for example, the Animal Kingdom has the
physical strength of minerals and the growth power of plants in
addition to its own power of senses and information
processing. This is the “concentric” part of these kingdoms,
diagrammatically shown below in Figure 8.
We might ask: “what is the basis of this categorization?” At
least one parameter in its basis is the strategy or method of
survival. Briefly, minerals defend their survival by their physical
strength of material, that is, they resist deformation. Their
form defines what they are and in a sense is their “life” (a
crushed tin box is a dead box). Once a mineral entity loses its
form, there is no going back, on its own, that is. We know this
because any physical change in an object requires energy. That

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
is precisely how much the object is resisting its deformation, or
“death.” For the plants, the survival strategy includes the
physical strength of minerals plus the power of growth, which
mends them, to some extent, if damage occurs. And they do this
on their own. For animals, the survival strategy includes the
minerals’ and the plants’ plus remote sensing and central
nervous system for sensory information integration. So,
animals can detect danger before it even gets physically close to
them. And they also learn from experience. Humans have all
these lower survival strategies plus a rational mind that can see
“invisible” dangers, not picked up by any physical sense, but by
rational reasoning, such as predicting what happens to crops six
months later if we have drought today.
Why is this classification of the world and its contents into
these four kingdoms significant? For one thing, this structure
helps us organize the world into a more understandable and
manageable place, at least information-wise. However, for our
purposes, this classification gives us an important insight,
namely, that all these realms are part of a single unified world,
not a fragmented random one. The denizens of each of these
kingdoms, however, can only interact and “see” that portion or
subset of the whole world that its kingdom is equipped to
interact with. For example, a plant can only interact with the
subset of the world that plants utilize for growth such as soil,
water, sunshine, breeze, and the like. An animal can interact
with all these elements in addition to what it can sense via any
of its senses. To a flower a car passing by has no existence. The
flower is absolutely incapable of seeing or sensing the existence
of the car in any shape, way, or form. A dog however, can see,
hear, and smell the car from a distance and can further
remember and process the information so collected by its sense,
for example, recognizing its master’s car when coming home.
Hence, even though the whole world exists out there, each
creature can only see or comprehend the subset it can interact
with. The realization that creatures in each kingdom have

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
visibility to only a limited subset of the universe, is critical to
understanding the spiritual realm, as we shall see later.
For the sake of consistency and completeness, the unity of
the world is logically not limited to our physical universe. If
there are other universes, as the multi-verse theory suggests, all
these universes are still part of one unified existence, defined as
the realm that contains anything that exists including any
number of universes, their laws, and their creatures.
A Property of Soul: Intelligence
In many of his tablets and utterances Abdu’l-Bahá explains
that the progress of man is because of his spiritual powers. For
example, the following passage makes this point clear.
Though man has powers and outer senses in common
with the animal, yet an extraordinary power exists in
him of which the animal is bereft. The sciences, arts,
inventions, trades, and discoveries of realities, are the
results of this spiritual power. This is a power which
encompasses all things, comprehends their realities,
discovers all the hidden mysteries of beings, and through
this knowledge controls them: it even perceives things
which do not exist outwardly; that is to say, intellectual
realities which are not sensible, and which have no
outward existence, because they are invisible.
He continues:
Moreover, these existing sciences, arts, laws, and endless
inventions of man at one time were invisible,
mysterious, and hidden secrets; it is only the all-
encompassing human power which has discovered and
brought them out from the plane of the invisible to the
plane of the visible. [SAQ 186]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Even more explicitly, Abdu’l-Bahá declares that intelligence
(“mental faculties”) is a direct emanation of the human soul:
“Now concerning mental faculties, they are in truth of the
inherent properties of the soul, even as the radiation of light is
the essential property of the sun.”7
These passages, especially the highlighted segments, directly
guide our way to a precise proof of the existence of soul and
intelligence as one its prominent properties. Before we embark
on the main proof, however, let’s review some of Abdu’l-Bahá’s
proofs and elucidations regarding the human soul. These are not
always proofs, per se, but rather guiding principles and
comments that show the way to those who want to research and
gain a deeper understanding of his guidance.
Abdu’l-Bahá’s Proofs and Commentaries on Existence of Soul:
A Brief Survey
Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá, in numerous tablets, have
explained the existence and character of the human soul, to the
extent possible to understand such matters in the physical
realm. One of Abdu’l-Bahá’s proofs that man is different from
animal, and the source of the main principle for this paper, is
the ability of man to perceive rational relationships while
animals are limited to sensed relationships, as explained in the
quote above and further elaborated in the quote below:
The animal cannot realize the intelligence of a human
being, he only knows that which is perceived by his
animal senses, he cannot imagine anything in the
abstract. An animal could not learn that the world is
round, that the earth revolves round the sun, or the
construction of the electric telegraph. [PT 11]
In another tablet, Abdu’l-Bahá draws our attention to the
difference between the mind and the soul in the context of
sleep and dream. He explains that:

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
The mind is circumscribed, the soul limitless. It is by the
aid of such senses as those of sight, hearing, taste, smell
and touch, that the mind comprehendeth, whereas the
soul is free from all agencies. The soul as thou
observest, whether it be in sleep or waking, is in motion
and ever active. Possibly it may, whilst in a dream,
unravel an intricate problem, incapable of solution in
the waking state.8
Some may try to superficially dismiss these explanations by
asserting that brain processes associated with cognition can
continue during sleep, and there is no reason to appeal to the
existence of soul, however, as we’ll see, cognition is not just a
matter of information processing.
In still another proof, Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the human
soul is not dependent on the health of the body, unlike the
human mind, which is the functional product of the brain:
Consider how the human intellect develops and weakens,
and may at times come to naught, whereas the soul
changeth not. For the mind to manifest itself, the human
body must be whole; and a sound mind cannot be but in
a sound body, whereas the soul dependeth not upon the
body.9
In numerous tablets, Bahá’u’lláh likens the human soul to a
bird and his body to a cage: “from thy mortal cage wing thy
flight unto the paradise of the Placeless” [HW 36]. He similarly
likens the human soul to light and his body to a lamp: “Thou art
My lamp and My light is in thee” [HW 6]. Bahá’u’lláh uses these
metaphors, among others, to reveal and emphasize the
independence of the soul from the body.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The Proof: Why Physical Systems Cannot Understand Rational
Relationships
At this point, we have spend quite a bit of time defining,
developing, and polishing different pieces of the proof. These
pieces form a rather extensive list including our part scientific -
part rational methodology; the fact that science is not the only
or even the main analytical attraction in town; the primacy of
logic; a model of reality, its four kingdoms, and important
relationships represented by System and Type Trees; definition
of physical and rational relationships as overlap between sets of
entities; a model of thinking based on the model of reality;
definition of intelligence as the ability to think in this model;
and general intelligence as (a yet-to-be-proven) property of
soul. Now is the time to put these pieces together.
The gist of the proof, the basic thesis is that a physical
system, any physical system, brain and computer included,
cannot understand a rational relationships because they have no
physical existence. Let’s now prove this thesis.
We defined a relationship between two entities as a
connection (technically, an overlap) between two sets
representing the two entities. Hence, for a relationship between
two entities to exist, a connection must exist. Understanding
something requires having a connection with that something
first. If there is no connection there can be no understanding.
Let’s put this in more concrete terms. All physical relationships
are between physical objects. So, a physical system can make a
connection with such physical objects and thus, process the
information so obtained. But what if the relationship is rational
and not physical? Remember that rational relationships have no
physical existence because they are outside the domain of time
and space, which chiefly characterize the physical world. As
explained earlier in Part I, a physical relationship, such as the
relationship between a wall and a door in a building, requires
space and changes with passage of time. But a rational
relationship, such as the formula for the calculation of the area

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
of a rectangle (area = long side x short side) has no need for
space to exist and is not altered or otherwise affected by the
passage of time. Hence, it is fundamentally outside the domain
of physical existence. In contrast a physical system, by
definition, is bound within time and space and is in the physical
realm. But, by definition, the realms inside and outside the
physical domain are mutually exclusive, have no overlap and no
connection. Therefore, a physical system, bound in the physical
realm, cannot detect, understand, or process a rational
relationship which lies outside the physical realm. In set theory
jargon, a set and what lies outside the set (called its
complement) have no overlap. A metaphor may serve to
crystallize the concept: it is like trying to catch the wind in a
net. Wind has no solid body to be caught in the net. In a way it
has little material overlap or connection with the net. That’s
why the net and the wind cannot make effective contact.
Well, this all sounds very interesting, but then how is it that
we as humans understand all these rational relationships with
our brains quite well, seeing and processing them by the
thousands every day? The answer is we don’t, not with our
brains. The only way we could possibly see and understand any
rational and abstract relationships is with a system in the same
domain as the rational relationships. We can call this realm the
spiritual realm and the system for understanding them the spirit
or the soul.
Animals, not being equipped with a spiritual system or soul,
can see the physical relationships and aspects in an experience,
but not its rational aspects. A chimpanzee can see a circle, can
match the shape to another round object, can distinguish a
circle from a triangle, because these are all physical
relationships and thus, sensible. But it cannot see or understand
the concept of multiplication or area calculation. Such
concepts and relationships are completely and literally invisible,
nay, non-existent to it. Like the net, its brain cannot catch the
rational wind. It has no connection with it.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
This concludes the core of our proof, but it is not all. We
still have to answer other important questions, such as how is
this spiritual system in communication with us? If it is in a
different realm, then how can we have a connection with it?
Where is the overlap? How can our physical brain memory
retain the rational relationships and our understanding of them?
This is not an exhaustive list of questions and issues, but it is a
good start.
Brain Model Extended
Since the above questions revolve around the role of the
brain in cognition, the role of the brain seems like a good place
to continue with this discussion. With the above arguments and
insights
regarding
the
requirements
for
seeing
and
understanding rational relationships, we can now extend the
brain model described above with respect to Figure 4.
Consistent with the model presented in Figure 4, we can
extend the power and vision of the brain, which is a physical
system, to see and understand rational relationships. If we
model the soul as a rational sense, a true sixth sense that detects
rational relationships and relay it to the brain, much the same
way the eye detects visual information and the ear detects
sound signals, then we have a consistent model that accounts
for human brain’s capacity to understand rational relationship.
This relationship between the soul and the brain is shown
schematically in Figure 7 as a little ghost, since physical
attributes, such as shape, cannot be associated with the soul.
Hence, in this model, the brain, despite being a physical system,
is given the capacity, through the instrumentality of the soul, to
see the whole of existence not just what is visible at the level of
the animal kingdom.

Existence and Qualities of the Soul


Figure 7: Brain extension: six senses as inputs to the system of
brain.
This model explains the external operation of the brain
system as a whole. However, it still doesn’t seem to explain how
the brain can be in contact with this spiritual sense, the soul,
the existence of which is limited to the spiritual or non-physical
realm.
To explain the connection between the brain and the soul,
let’s revisit the model of reality and remodel it a little.
Model of Reality: New and Improved
Like the updated model of the brain, the model of reality is
augmented with a new set of relationships superimposed on the
original ones shown in Figure 2. The model of Figure 2 showed
the generic set of relationships between all entities in the world.
The System and Type Trees of Figures 5 and 6 introduced new
relationships that classified the generic ones. In other words,
some of the relationships shown generically in Figure 2 as lines
have the additional properties of the System and Type Trees.
Continuing with this process of refinement and augmentation,
Figure 8 below adds another layer of properties and attributes
to the generic relationships. That means while some objects in
the model of Figure 2 may be related to one another in
particular ways, such as by color or shape, they can further be
related to each other by being members of one of the four

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
kingdoms of Mineral, Plant, Animal, and Human kingdoms, as
discussed earlier.
In short, each of the augmentations made to the basic model
of reality adds some attributes and refinements rather than
changing it altogether. This is like adding layers of new ideas
and relationships to the model of reality. But, how does this
new model answer our questions regarding the connection
between the soul and the brain?

Figure 8: An aspect of the model of reality augmented with the
four Kingdoms.
Even though each kingdom is separated from others, but at
its boundary the kingdom touches the adjacent ones. This is
called an interface. An interface between two domains is a
gateway for communicating information (which may be
embedded in energy or material such as heat, fluids, chemicals,
etc.) between the two without mixing the domains. The concept
of an interface is well-known in computers, biology, and other
technical circles. As an example, consider the boundary between
minerals and plants. A handful of soil is a member of the
Mineral Kingdom while a rose bush is a member of the Plant
Kingdom. There is no mixing of the two, however, they do have

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
an interface. The rose bush roots absorbs water and minerals
from the soil, which are then integrated with the plant and
become part of that kingdom. At the same time the physical
presence, such as the size and weight of the plant, is “sensed” or
“seen” by the soil without seeing any more of the Plant
Kingdom. Thus, there is some form of information exchange
between these two kingdoms at the interface.
Applying the interface concept to the boundary between the
Human Kingdom (where our brain resides) and the spiritual
realm (where the soul resides) can explain how the soul can
interface with our brain. The exact nature of this interface is
transcendental, by definition, and is largely unknowable
because one side of this interface, namely the soul, is invisible
in our physical world. However, once our soul sees or detects a
rational relationship and relays it across this interface to our
brain, then the rational relationship becomes just another piece
of information that can be recorded in our memory like the
information collected by any other physical sense, such as our
eyes and ears. This way, the rational knowledge from the
invisible spiritual realm is transmitted to the physical realm.
At this point, it bears emphasis that the augmented model of
reality of Figure 8 shows a unified existence and the rational
relationships seen by the soul are merely the most general and at
the highest level of this existence. Thus, it is not unreal for such
spiritually based rational relationships to be transferred to a
lower kingdom in some form, as they are all part of the same
existence.
Can Machines “Think?”
As much as we may wish, this is not the end of this journey.
So far, we have shown that no physical system can possess
general intelligence and understand rational relationships, thus,
necessitating the existence of a non-physical soul. This theory
shows the difference between humans and animals. However, a
very important question of modern origins remain: if no

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
physical system can detect and process rational relationships,
then how do computers do it?
Clearly, computers can and do process abstract and rational
relationships every day, doing it even as this paper is being
written on a modern word processor. What gives? Humans do!
To understand how computers do not violate the
requirement that a non-physical system must understand
rational relationships, and are not an exception to this rule, we
have to go back to the critical role of analogy and
categorization in cognition, discussed in Part I. It is important
to keep in mind that the core logical reason that animals or
computers cannot see nor understand rational relationships is
still the fact that rational relationships are outside the bounds
of time and space and literally do not exist in the physical
realm, and hence, have no connection with animals or
computers, as discussed above in detail. But we still need to
explain the questions posed above with respect to computer
processing of rational relationships.
The key to recognizing that computers do not understand
rational relationships any more than a doorstop, is realizing the
difference
between
understanding
and
representation.
Representation of information basically entails the encoding of
information in a symbolic form. For example, computer
languages represent information in binary format (a string of
0’s and 1’s, such as 2 = 010, and 5 = 101), and natural languages,
like English and Japanese, represent information using
alphabet, logograms, or other symbolic forms. Representation
in and of itself does not convey semantics or meaning. A
computer no more understands its program than a book
understands its contents. Representation is merely an
assignment of a symbol to an object or an action. In
mathematics, this is called a mapping. If the object or action is
not understood in the first place, then merely mapping it to a
different symbol does not bring about its comprehension. If

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
one doesn’t know what osmosis is, then translating it to a
different language does not alter his lack of knowledge.
Computers
can
process
abstract
information
and
relationships, in the form of formulas, algorithms, computer
languages, and other computing constructs because humans
have already encoded these rational relationships in those
formulas, algorithms, and languages. In other words, humans
already have understood the relationships and have merely
encoded them into the computing environment in one form or
another as needed. Even computer-based “expert systems,”
software that are expert in a particular domain such as seismic
signal analysis, financial data analysis, voice recognition, game
playing, and the like, depend on humans. All such expert
systems depend on their internal programming and semantic
data files, which are created by humans who encode the
necessary abstract relationships. That’s why computers with
learning algorithms and software are limited in their learning to
their specific domains initially encoded by humans. They cannot
break out into other unrelated domains and apply what they
learn. Many expert systems learn and improve over time. For
example, a voice recognition system can learn to understand a
new human accent not specifically programmed before. But
they are limited in their learning and application to human
speech variations, not stock market variations. Such learning
can be transferred to other domains but only by human
mediators who adapt them.
But, what does it mean to understand? Understanding
complex relationships is so second nature to humans that we
forget it is more than mere perception or sensing of an object
or action. Perhaps it is easier to start with an example. We learn
the concept, dynamics, and value of teamwork when we play
soccer. But we only truly understand it when we can apply the
same concepts and dynamics in a project or in our jobs, which
are totally unrelated in practice and purpose to playing soccer.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

Figure 9: A force Type Tree with disjoint sub-types connected
only through abstract relationships.
More formally, understanding means the ability to apply
relationships learned from a source sub-type (or sub-category)
in a Type Tree (or general category) to a target sub-type that
has no physical connection to or relationship with the source
sub-type. This definition is less obscure and esoteric than it
appears. Once we understand what it means then we recognize
how ubiquitous and common it actually is in everyday life.
Figure 9, above, depicts the concept of understanding using
another example. The Type Tree shown is for the concept of
abstract force and its many incarnations placed in the category
of force. If we define the root type as the most abstract
concept of force having the attributes of magnitude (or
quantity), direction, and ability to effect change, then all other
sub-categories or sub-types of force include these three
attributes plus additional ones. For example, the force of
gravity has a magnitude (weight), a direction (downwards or
towards earth), and the ability to change things (break a falling

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
china cup). The force of gravity has the additional attribute of
being a function of the mass of the earth and the bodies close
to it in a way that the force of a spring isn’t. In the example
Type Tree of Figure 9, one sub-category of force is muscle
force, which is essentially created by molecular action of
proteins that chemically combine to shorten the physical length
of muscle fibers, thus contracting them. This is a physical force
that everybody is familiar with its use. Another sub-type,
totally and entirely different in apparent nature and having no
relation to muscle force whatsoever, is the economic force.
Yet, everybody recognizes the metaphor of economic “force”
and its validity instantly and effortlessly. This is because we
recognize that economic force has the three attributes of the
abstract force (magnitude, direction, ability to effect change)
plus additional attributes specific to the economic force, such
as the many financial concepts like interest rate and marginal
cost.
We say we understand the concept of force because we can
successfully apply it to many physically disjoint and unrelated
applications, such as the economic force. This is not the case
for computers. Even if computers were attached to sensors like
cameras and networked to all databases in the world with
unimaginable amounts of data, they would fail in understanding
anything. As a matter of fact, computers today do have access
to such sensors and data, but they only operate in the domains
in which they were designed to operate. They simply are not
equipped to and cannot bridge the rational gap. And of course,
all the data in various databases have been designed and the
knowledge contained in them have been encoded by humans.
We must bear in mind that the construction of a Type Tree,
which was used to explain the meaning of understanding, is also
an abstract concept that only humans can do. We can enlist the
help of computers in this respect, but only if we encode the
abstract concepts for them.
Understanding is relative. We can understand things in
degrees and in all likelihood there is no end to the depth of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
understanding of something because the Type Tree can have an
arbitrary depth and breadth. Hence, we can apply our
understanding to farther and farther regions of the tree,
deepening our understanding. For example, the concept of
force may be applied to a new and different context with its
own additional characteristics, such as power of faith,
psychological force, political force, and the like, each providing
a deeper understanding of the concept of force. Relativity of
understanding, however, does not change its nature, namely
that it is achieved through seeing and traversing the rational
relationships in the model of reality. It is like crossing vast
divides between different concepts in the physical world using
the invisible bridges of rational and abstract relationships.
These invisible bridges are only visible to the human soul, not
computers or animals.
The inability of computers to see rational relationships and
understand them really extends much further and deeper than
the analytical picture presented above implies. However,
examining this extension is beyond the scope of this paper save
a brief mention. With reference to Figure 8, the kingdoms that
define the basic categories of creation, computers belong to the
Mineral Kingdom, and are literally inferior to and dumber than
a mosquito, let alone a human. Even more specifically,
emotions, which are fundamental properties of living
organisms, play an integral role in intelligence. Emotions create
purpose in life, human or animal, and drive the search for new
knowledge or new experience. Without emotions, one could ask
“what is the motivation for seeking new knowledge?” In the
absence of motivation, the very quest and search for
knowledge, even if programmed in a computer to automatically
and perpetually perform, reduces to a mindless, purposeless,
and mechanical process of information acquisition and any
innate value or meaning assignable to knowledge is stripped
away. This mechanical process would be like one of those old
toy cars that blindly moved until it hit an object, like a table
leg, and then backed up and turned and went in another

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
direction until it hit another object. At the end, nothing is
achieved and no more meaning can be assigned to this search
for knowledge than to the tumbling of an uprooted weed
randomly driven by the desert wind.
But the answer to the question in the header of this section,
“can machines think?” is technically “yes.” This is because we
defined thinking as the process of traversing the graph in the
space model of reality (Figure 2) and machines can do that, but
only with respect to the physical relationships, not the rational
ones. For example a computer connected to a camera can detect
an image and track it across the screen or recognize it as a
particular object, a human face, a fingerprint, and the like. All
of these are based on physical data or abstract information
encoded by humans. So, machines can “think” in a mechanical
sense (i.e., no emotional impetus or meaning) and within the
bounded subset of reality limited to physical relationships only.
Immortality of the Soul
The existence of the soul is one question, and its immortality
another. Abdu’l-Bahá treats the subject of the human soul in
Some Answered Questions the same way. He first proves its
existence and then explains its immortality. He states: “Having
shown that the spirit of man exists, we must prove its
immortality.” [SAQ 223]
Abdu’l-Bahá uses a number of proofs of immortality of soul,
some of which are based on the same concepts he uses to prove
its existence, such as independence of human spirit from his
physical body and its ailments, revelations during sleep, its
influence in this world after death, and others. [SAQ 223-229]
Furthermore, Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
The whole physical creation is perishable. These material
bodies are composed of atoms; when these atoms begin
to separate decomposition sets in, then comes what we
call death. This composition of atoms, which constitutes

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
the body or mortal element of any created being, is
temporary. When the power of attraction, which holds
these atoms together, is withdrawn, the body, as such,
ceases to exist.
With the soul it is different. The soul is not a
combination of elements, it is not composed of many
atoms, it is of one indivisible substance and therefore
eternal. It is entirely out of the order of the physical
creation; it is immortal! [PT 89]
In this passage Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the soul is
immortal because death is nothing but decomposition and the
soul is not composed of anything and is, therefore, immortal.
In the context of this paper, we present a proof of the
immortality of the soul, which is related but not identical to
Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanations. In this context, the rational
relationships were defined as being in the spiritual domain and
as being sensible by the soul because it is in the same domain.
The rational relationships were also defined as not being bound
by time and space, which implies that the spiritual realm and the
soul are also not so bound.
Now, what does immortality mean? Immortality has an
inherent time element. Something is immortal only if it lasts
forever, that is, for all time. But what happens if time is not a
factor that affects an entity, say, the human soul? Then that
entity will not change over time, and hence, by definition, is
immortal.
Conclusion
Despite popular conceptions of spirituality as an emotional
state, spirituality has more to do with rational thinking than
emotions, at least directly. A relationship between two entities
is defined as the overlap between the sets that represent the
entities, and may be classified as rational or physical. Rational

Existence and Qualities of the Soul
relationships have no physical existence and are not bound by
time and space that mainly characterize the physical world.
Based on the model of reality as an object-relationship space,
the model of thinking as the ability to traverse the relationships
in this space, and the model of general intelligence as the ability
to traverse rational relationships, it is concluded that no
physical system, including the human brain, can have general
intelligence. No physical system can sense or understand a
rational relationship. This is because a physical system has no
overlap with a non-physical entity, and thus, cannot possibly
sense or understand it. Hence, only a non-physical system can
sense and understand rational relationships. We call this non-
physical system the soul and we call the realm it belongs to the
spiritual realm.
The computers are no exception to the rule requiring a non-
physical entity to perceive rational relationships. But the
situation is more complicated because they do process rational
information. The key to resolving this apparent contradiction is
to recognize the difference between representation and
understanding. The former is the encoding of information,
while the latter is the ability to apply knowledge gained in one
area to another unrelated area. Computers can only process
representations of rational relationships encoded by humans.
They
are
bereft
of
understanding
such
relationships
independently.
Immortality of the soul is also established by the realization
that the soul resides in the spiritual domain, which is outside
the influence of time and space, and thus, is unaffected by
time.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

NOTES
1 Adib Taherzadeh, “The Human Soul,” Bahá’í Studies Number 11; Institute
for Bahá’í Studies, Dundas, Ontario, Canada, 1996.
2 Anjam Khursheed, Science And Religion, p. 42, Oneworld Publications
Ltd., London, Great Britain, 1987.
3 Douglas Hofstadter and Emmanuel Sander, Surfaces and Essences: Analogy
as the Fuel and Fire of Thinking; New York, Basic Books, 2013.
4 ibid. p. 3.
5 ibid. p. 19.
6 ibid. pp. 235-238.
7 John Paul Vader, For the Good of Mankind: Auguste Forel and the Bahá’í
Faith, George Ronald, Publisher, Kidlington, Oxford, United Kingdom,
1978, p. 8.
8 ibid. p. 8.
9 ibid. p. 8.

Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related
to Law in the Bahá’í Scripture
Moojan Momen1
The goal of this paper was to find out whether there was any
pattern within Shoghi Effendi’s translation of terms related to
the word “law”. In this section of the paper, I have search the
translations of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings by Shoghi Effendi and
found instances where some word has been translated by Shoghi
Effendi as “Laws” or “Law”. I found that some 8-10 different
words were translated by Shoghi Effendi in this way:
1.  Sharí`ah — Sharí`at — plural Shará’i`
2.  Shar`
3.  Óukm — plural A˙kám
4.  Námús — plural nawámís
5.  Qánún — plural qawánín
6.  Aßl — plural ußúl
7.  Amr — plural awámir
8.  Óadd — plural ˙udúd
9.  Sunna — plural sunan
10. Far∂ — plural furú∂
In the following, these words are considered in more details.
In each case, the word is given followed by a dictionary
definition and some words indicating the roots of the word and

1 This paper was prepared for the Bahá’í Law Conference at De Poort January
2003 and also presented at the ‘Irfan Colloquium at Acuto in July 2003.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
how it came to mean “law” in Shoghi Effendi’s translations.
There is then some indication of whether the word occurs in the
Qur’an and how it is used there. This is followed by one or
more quotations, showing instances where Shoghi Effendi has
translated this word as “law” or “laws”. And following that, one
or more quotations in which Shoghi Effendi has translated this
word in some other way.
1. Sharí`ah — Sharí`at — holy law. This is the usual word in
Islamic Law for the holy law which has been derived from the
Qur’an and Traditions — derived from root meaning “to go
along a path”. Thus the implication is that by following the
Sharí`ah, one is following the path of Mu˙ammad,
There is one Qur’anic occurrence of this term: “And
now have We set thee (O Mu˙ammad) on a clear road
(sharí`ah) of (Our) commandment; so follow it, and
follow not the whims of those who know not.” [Q 45:18]
In the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, this term appears in the
following passages, which have been translated by Shoghi Effendi:
I implore Thee by Them Who are the Tabernacles of Thy
Divine holiness ... to grant that Thy servants may not be
kept back from this Divine Law (sharí`ah) ... [PM 27]
Gather them, then, together around this Divine Law
(sharí`ah), the covenant of which Thou hast established
with all Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers, and Whose
ordinances Thou hast written down in Thy Tablets and
Thy Scriptures. [PM 106]
And yet no one hath paused to reflect that if the
promised Qa’im should reveal the law (sharí`at) and
ordinances (a˙kám) of a former Dispensation, why then
should such traditions have been recorded, and why
should there arise such a degree of strife and conflict that
the people should regard the slaying of these

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
companions as an obligation imposed upon them ... ? [KI
245]
Where is He Who hath the authority to transform the
Faith (sharí`ah) and the followers thereof? [KI 240]
Let your principal concern be to rescue the fallen from
the slough of impending extinction, and to help him
embrace the ancient Faith (bih sharí`at-i baqá) of God.
[GWB 316]
Behold the absurdity of their saying; how far it hath
strayed from the path (sharí`at) of knowledge and
understanding! [KI 136-7]
... others accused Him of being “the one that
withholdeth the people from the path (sharí`at) of faith
and true belief” ... [KI 215]
And after Him there appeared from the Ridvan of the
Eternal, the Invisible, the holy person of Salih, Who
again summoned the people to the river of everlasting
life (bih sharí`at-i qurb-i báqiyyih). [KI 9]
In another sense, by the terms “sun”, “moon”, and
“stars” are meant such laws and teachings as have been
established and proclaimed in every Dispensation
(sharí`at). [KI 38]
... this generation still waiteth in expectation of beholding
the promised One who should uphold the Law of the
Muhammadan Dispensation (sharí`at-i furqán). [KI 239]
Hence, it is clear and manifest that by the words “the
sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her
light, and the stars shall fall from heaven” is intended
the waywardness of the divines, and the annulment of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
laws (a˙kám) firmly established by divine Revelation
(sharí`at) ... [KI 41]
Were men to meditate on these words which have
flowed from the Pen of the Divine Ordainer, they
would, one and all, hasten to embrace the truth of this
God-given, and ever-enduring Revelation (bih sharí`at-i
báqiyyih iláhiyyih), and would testify to that which He
Himself hath solemnly affirmed. [GWB 82]
1b. Shará’i` — al-shará’i` — sharáyi` — plural of Sharí`ah. These
are other terms from the same root as sharí`ah and are
translated by Shoghi Effendi thus:
These “clouds” signify, in one sense, the annulment of
laws (a˙kám), the abrogation of former Dispensations
(shará’i`), the repeal of rituals and customs (qawá’id va
rusúm) current amongst men [KI 71-2]
Aside from these things, before his partaking of the
reviving waters of faith, he had been so wedded to the
traditions (˙udúdát) of his forefathers, and so
passionately devoted to the observance of their customs
(ádáb) and laws (shará’i`), that he would have preferred
to suffer death rather than violate one letter of those
superstitious forms and manners (umúr taqlídiyyih)
current amongst his people. [KI 155]
In such a manner hath the Kitáb-i-Aqdas been revealed
that it attracteth and embraceth all the divinely
appointed Dispensations (sharáyi`). [Bahá’u’lláh in GPB 216]
In all the Divine Dispensations (sharáyi`), the eldest son
hath been given extraordinary distinctions. Even the
station of prophethood hath been his birthright.
[Bahá’u’lláh in GPB 148]

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
They clamored that He Whose advent the Bible had
foretold must needs promulgate and fulfil the laws
(sharáyi`) of Moses, whereas this youthful Nazarene,
who laid claim to the station of the divine Messiah, had
annulled the laws (˙ukm) of divorce and of the sabbath
day ... [KI 18]
... and the dispensations of Thy providence have been
promulgated (shari`at al-shará’i`) unto the followers of
all religions. [PM 60]
1c. Shar`ah — This term is sometimes used as an alternative to
sharí`ah. Historically this and shar` were the original form of
the word used and Cantwell Smith has shown how the word
used moved from meaning an ethical obligation of Muslims to
follow the path set by God to meaning a legal obligation to act
in a certain way because that is what the sharí`ah says.
In Qur’an the word shar`atan occurs in 5:48:
To each among you have we prescribed a law (shar`atan)
and an open way (minhajan).
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
Thou shouldst, moreover, arise to enforce the law of
God amongst them, that thou mayest be of those who
are firmly established in His law (shar`). [GWB 234]
Among the utterances that foreshadow a new Law (shar`)
and a new Revelation (amr) are the passages in the
“Prayer of Nudbih” ... [KI 240]
Did He not speak a different language, and reveal a
different Law (shar`)? [KI 150]
1d. Shara`a — verb — to legislate, enact, also to go along a path

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Qur’an:
He has ordained for you (shara`a lakum) of religion what
He enjoined upon Noah ...
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
We have, then, called into being (shára‘ná) a new
creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. I am, verily,
the All-Bountiful [GWB 29-30]
Gather ye around that which We have prescribed
(shára‘náhu) unto you ... [ESW 55]
1e. Tashrí‘ — legislation. This word does not appear in the
Qur’an.
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
This House of Justice enacteth the laws (maßdar-i
tashrí`st) and the government enforceth them. The
legislative body (tashrí`) must reinforce the executive
(tanfídh), the executive (tanfídh) must aid and assist the
legislative body (tashrí`) so that through the close union
and harmony of these two forces, the foundation of
fairness and justice may become firm and strong [WT 14-
5]
2. Óukm — (legal) judgement, decision, regulation, rule. Comes
from the same root as hákim — judge — thus signifies a
judgement as made by a judge (or by God as the Judge).
There are multiple occurrences of this word and its
derivatives in the Qur’an (e.g. 3:79, 5:43, 5:50, 6:57, 6:62, etc.).
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
Thus hath the sun of My commandment (˙ukm) shone
forth above the horizon of My utterance ... [Bahá’u’lláh in
ADJ 33]
Thus hath the decree (˙ukm) been irrevocably fixed by
Him Who is the All-Wise. [Bahá’u’lláh in PDC 41]
None of the many Prophets sent down, since Moses ...
ever altered the law (˙ukm) of the Qiblih. [KI 51]
2b. A˙kám — plural of ˙ukm
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
A Youth from Bani-Hashim shall be made manifest,
Who will reveal a new Book and promulgate a new law
(a˙kám) ... [KI 241]
... and the annulment (naskh) of laws (a˙kám) firmly
established by divine Revelation (sharí`at) ... [KI 41]
... they idly contend that the law (a˙kám) formerly
revealed, must in no wise be altered. [KI 240]
Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code
of laws (al-a˙kám). [GWB 332]
3. Námús — from Greek nomos = Latin lex — meaning law, rule,
honour. It is non-Quranic.
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
O kings of the earth! The Most Great Law (al-námús al-
akbar) hath been revealed in this Spot ... [KA 18]
Love is the most great law (al-námús al-a`.zam) that
ruleth this mighty and heavenly cycle ... [Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá 27]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Thine iniquity hath made Gabriel (al-námús al-akbar) to
groan, and hath drawn tears from the Law of God
(sharí`at Alláh) ... [ESW 81]
3b. Nawámís — plural of námús
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
The animal is the captive of nature and cannot
transgress the rules (qawánín) and laws thereof (nawámís
tabí`at) ... all other beings, whether of the mineral, the
vegetable or the animal world, cannot deviate from the
laws of nature (nawámís tabí`at) ... [TAF 10]
4. Qánún — plural qawánín — from the Greek — canon,
established principle, basic rule, towards the end of the 19th
century it was being used by secular reformers to indicate
secular law, e.g. in their argument that society should be run be
the rule of law rather than the whims of a despot. Bahá’u’lláh
rarely uses this word. It is non-Quranic.
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
These principles (usúl) and laws (qawánín), these
firmly-established and mighty systems, have proceeded
from one Source, and are rays of one Light. [ESW 13]
[N.B. In the Tablet to Dr. Forel ‘Abdu’l-Bahá frequently
uses qánún-i tabi`at for laws of nature.]
Also qánún and words derived from it are used by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
for laws of the Universal House of Justice:
And inasmuch as the House of Justice hath power to
enact laws (qawánín) that are not expressly recorded in
the Book and bear upon daily transactions (mu’ámilát),
so also it hath power to repeal (násikh) the same. Thus
for example, the House of Justice enacteth today a

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
certain law (mas’ali’í qánúní) and enforceth it, and a
hundred years hence, circumstances having profoundly
changed and the conditions having altered, another
House of Justice will then have power, according to the
exigencies of the time, to alter that law (mas’alih
qánúní). This it can do because that law formeth no part
of the divine explicit text. The House of Justice is both
the initiator and the abrogator of its own laws. [WT 20]
It enacteth all ordinances (qawánín) and regulations
(a˙kám) that are not to be found in the explicit Holy
Text. [WT 14]
5. Aßl — plural Ußúl — means root or trunk and therefore has
come to mean foundation, principles. Thus it means law in the
sense of foundational principles. There are three Quranic
occurrences of this word and its plural but only with the
meaning of root of a tree.
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
...these divines who are still doubtful of, and dispute
about, the theological obscurities of their faith, yet
claim to be the exponents of the subtleties of the law of
God (ußúl iláhiyyih), and the expounders of the essential
mysteries of His holy Word. [KI 83]
It behoveth you, O Ministers of State, to keep the
precepts of God (ußúl Alláh), and to forsake your own
laws (ußúlikum) and regulations ... [GWB 123]
Say: What! Cleave ye to your own devices (ußúlikum),
and cast behind your backs the precepts of God (ußúl
Alláh)? [GWB 124]
Have ye clung unto the promptings of your nature (ußúl
anfusikum), and cast behind your backs the statutes of
God (ußúl Alláh)? [ESW 49]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
If your rules and principles (ußúlikum) be founded on
justice, why is it, then, that ye follow those which
accord with your corrupt inclinations ... [GWB 124]
6. Amr — plural awámir: commands, orders (- also Faith,
Cause); comes from the same root as amír, commander or ruler
and thus means law as that which issues from the ruler or king
(or from God as Ruler or King); also has a plural form umúr in
which case it has the meanings: affairs, matters. This word and
its derivatives occur numerous times in the Qur’an (e.g. 2:210,
3:128, 3:152, 3:154, etc.).
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
Thus hath His ordinance (al-amr) been sent down from
the Kingdom of Him Who is the Most Exalted, the
All-Wise. [GWB 278]
He Who is the Lord of Lords is come overshadowed
with clouds, and the decree (al-amr) hath been fulfilled
by God, the Almighty, the Unrestrained. [Bahá’u’lláh in PDC
31]
This Book is a heaven which We have adorned with the
stars of Our commandments (awámir) and prohibitions.
[Bahá’u’lláh in GPB 216]
... and enable him to remain a while in the island of
Cyprus, and associate with Mirza Yahya, perchance he
may become aware of the fundamentals of this Faith
(aßl-i amr) and of the source of the Divine laws and
commandments (maßdar-i awamir wa ahkám). [ESW 121]
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the
recognition of Him Who is the Day Spring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws (ma†la` amrihi),
who representeth the Godhead ... [GWB 330-31]

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
The second is strict observance of the laws (awámir) He
hath prescribed ... [GWB 290]
Aid Thou His Majesty the Shah to execute Thy laws
(awámirika) and Thy commandments (ahkámika) ... [ESW
139]
7. Óadd — plural ˙udúd — this word signifies an edge,
boundary, or limit, and hence has come to mean ordinance,
legal punishment. It occurs in the Qur’an, where the plural is
used in the sense of the limits set by God (e.g. 2:187, 2:229).
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
Reflect, how single-handed and alone they faced the
world and all its peoples, and promulgated the Law of
God (˙udúd Alláh)! [KI 45]
They whom God hath endued with insight will readily
recognize that the precepts laid down by God (˙udúd
Alláh) constitute the highest means for the maintenance
of order in the world and the security of its peoples.
[GWB 331]
Respect ye the divines amongst you, They whose acts
conform to the knowledge they possess, who observe
the statutes of God (˙udúd Alláh), and decree the things
God hath decreed in the Book. [Bahá’u’lláh in PDC 111]
Say: O people be obedient to the ordinances of God
(˙udúd Alláh), which have been enjoined in the Bayan by
the Glorious, the Wise One. [Tablet of Ahmad]
Lay not aside the fear of God, O kings of the earth, and
beware that ye transgress not the bounds which the
Almighty hath fixed (˙udúd Alláh). [GWB 250]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
8. Sunnah — plural sunan — customary practice or procedure;
came to mean in Islam the practice of the Prophet Muhammad
— hence Sunni Muslims are those who follow the practice
(sunna) of the Prophet. It is non-Quranic.
Shoghi Effendi’s translations:
Ponder in thine heart the revelation of the Soul of God
that pervadeth all His Laws (al-sunan) ... [GWB 160]
Empower me, then, O my God, to be reckoned among
them that have clung to Thy laws (sunanika) and
precepts (˙udúdátika) for the sake of Thee ... [PM 299]
9. Far∂ — plural fará’i∂ — duty, obligation, ordinances. This
word and its derivates occur in the Qur’an (e.g. 2:197, 28:85,
33:38, etc.)
Shoghi Effendi’s translation:
Where is He Who is preserved to renew the ordinances
and laws (al-fará’i∂ wa al-sunan)? [KI 240]
It could be argued that this last one, far∂, should not appear
on the list as it appears to translate “ordinances” rather than
“laws”. If one to exclude far∂ and also to count shar` and
sharí`ah as one, since they are from the same root, then the list
is eight long. If one include either it become nine and if one
includes both it becomes ten.
Legal Terms in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
In the second part of this presentation, we will carry out the
mirror of the above analysis and look at the cluster of words in
English which we have found above to be associated with the
word
“law”
in
Shoghi
Effendi’s
translations
(law,
commandment, ordinance, statutes, precepts) and see what

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
words in the Arabic text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (including
Questions and Answers) have been translated by these terms.
1a. Law
81. O kings of the earth! The Most Great Law (al-námús
al-akbar) hath been revealed in this Spot, this scene of
transcendent splendour.
98. Various petitions have come before Our throne from
the believers, concerning laws (no word) from God, the
Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of all worlds.
We have, in consequence, revealed this Holy Tablet and
arrayed it with the mantle of His Law (al-amr) that haply
the people may keep the commandments (a˙kám) of their
Lord.
10. ANSWER: All are charged with obedience to the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas; whatsoever is revealed therein is the Law
of God (˙ukm iláhí) amid His servants. The injunction on
pilgrims to the sacred House to shave the head hath been
lifted.
31. QUESTION: Concerning the sacred verse: “The Lord
hath prohibited ... the practice to which ye formerly had
recourse when thrice ye had divorced a woman.”
ANSWER: The reference is to the law (˙ukm) which
previously made it necessary for another man to marry
such a woman before she could again be wedded to her
former husband ...
76. QUESTION: Concerning observance of the Fast by
people engaged in hard labour during the month of
fasting.
ANSWER: Such people are excused from fasting; however,
in order to show respect to the law of God (˙ukm Alláh)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
and for the exalted station of the Fast, it is most com-
mendable and fitting to eat with frugality and in private.
100. ... In this regard, a law (˙ukmí) was revealed in the
Land of Mystery, temporarily awarding the missing heirs’
inheritance to the existing heirs until such time as the
House of Justice shall be established ...
101. QUESTION: Concerning the law (˙ukm) on treasure
trove.
Q&A 106: exalted station. Well is it with him who in the
Day of God hath laid fast hold upon His precepts and
hath not deviated from His true and fundamental Law
(qánun).
1b. Laws
1. The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is
the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws (ma†la` amrihi)
...
4. Say: From My laws (˙udúdí) the sweet-smelling savour of
My garment can be smelled, and by their aid the standards
of Victory will be planted upon the highest peaks.
5. Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code
of laws (al-a˙kám). Nay, rather, We have unsealed the
choice Wine ...
7. ... Whenever My laws (al-a˙kám) appear like the sun in
the heaven of Mine utterance, they must be faithfully
obeyed by all, though My decree be such as to cause the
heaven of every religion to be cleft asunder. He doeth
what He pleaseth. He chooseth ...
7. ... Whoso hath inhaled the sweet fragrance of the
All-Merciful, and recognized the Source of this

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
utterance, will welcome with his own eyes the shafts of
the enemy, that he may establish the truth of the laws of
God (al-a˙kám) amongst men.
26. ... Thus have the billows of the Ocean of Utterance
surged, casting forth the pearls of the laws (al-a˙kám)
decreed by the Lord of all mankind.
29. ... These, verily, are the Laws of God (˙udúd Alláh);
transgress them not at the prompting of your base and
selfish desires.
45. ... We school you with the rod of wisdom and laws
(al-a˙kám), like unto the father who educateth his son,
and this for naught but the protection of your own selves
and the elevation of your stations.
45. ... By My life, were ye to discover what We have
desired for you in revealing Our holy laws (awámiriná al-
muqaddasah), ye would offer up your very souls for this
sacred, this mighty, and most exalted Faith.
96. O Most Mighty Ocean! Sprinkle upon the nations
that with which Thou hast been charged by Him Who is
the Sovereign of Eternity, and adorn the temples of all
the dwellers of the earth with the vesture of His laws
(a˙kám) through which all hearts will rejoice and all eyes
be brightened.
120. ... Thus have We exhorted you in most of Our
Epistles and now in this, Our Holy Tablet, above which
hath beamed the Day-Star of the Laws (a˙kám) of the
Lord, your God, the Powerful, the All-Wise.
142. Verily, He revealed certain laws (al-a˙kám) so that,
in this Dispensation, the Pen of the Most High might
have no need to move in aught but the glorification of His
own transcendent Station and His most effulgent Beauty.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Since, however, We have wished to evidence Our bounty unto
you, We have, through the power of truth, set forth these
laws (no word) with clarity and mitigated what We desire
you to observe. He, verily, is the Munificent, the Generous.
148. ... Such are the laws (˙udúd) which God hath
enjoined (fara∂at) upon you, such His commandments
(awámir) prescribed unto you in His Holy Tablet; obey
them with joy and gladness, for this is best for you, did
ye but know.
166. ... Though he was occupied both night and day in
setting down what he conceived to be the laws and
ordinances of God (a˙kám Alláh), yet when He Who is
the Unconstrained appeared, not one letter thereof
availed him, or he would not have turned away from a
Countenance that hath illumined the faces of the
well-favoured of the Lord.
42. ANSWER: In the laws (a˙kám) revealed in Persian We
have ordained that in this Most Mighty Dispensation the
residence and the household furnishings are exempt —
that is, such furnishings as are necessary.
2. Commandment, Commandments
65. ... And in this We have yet other purposes. Thus hath
Our commandment (al-amr) been ordained.
70. Should a woman be divorced in consequence of a
proven act of infidelity, she shall receive no maintenance
during her period of waiting. Thus hath the day-star of
Our commandment (al-amr) shone forth resplendent from
the firmament of justice.
72. ... Thus, by His mercy, hath the commandment (al-
amr) been recorded by the Pen of justice.

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
97. ... O people! Deal not faithlessly with the Right of
God, nor, without His leave, make free with its disposal.
Thus hath His commandment (al-amr) been established in
the holy Tablets, and in this exalted Book.
108. ... Thus hath the sun of Our commandment (al-
˙ukm) shone forth above the horizon of Our utterance.
Blessed, then, be those who do Our bidding.
138. ... Such is the commandment (amr) of the Lord,
aforetime and hereafter; beware lest ye choose instead the
part of ignominy and abasement.
148. ... Such is the commandment (amran) which He hath
enjoined upon you in this resplendent Tablet.
18. ANSWER: The commandment (˙ukm) regarding
ablutions must, in any case, be observed.
38. ANSWER: According to the commandment (˙ukm)
revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, both parties must be
content; unless both are willing, reunion cannot take
place.
Q&A 105. ... Should a father neglect this most weighty
commandment (amr) laid down in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas by
the Pen of the Eternal King, he shall forfeit rights of
fatherhood, and be accounted guilty before God.
2. ... They that have violated the Covenant of God by
breaking His commandments (awámirihi), and have
turned back on their heels, these have erred grievously in
the sight of God, the All-Possessing, the Most High.
3. O ye peoples of the world! Know assuredly that My
commandments (awámirí) are the lamps of My loving
providence among My servants, and the keys of My
mercy for My creatures ...

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
3. ... Were any man to taste the sweetness of the words
which the lips of the All-Merciful have willed to utter, he
would, though the treasures of the earth be in his
possession, renounce them one and all, that he might
vindicate the truth of even one of His commandments
(amran min awámirihi), shining above the Dayspring of
His bountiful care and loving-kindness.
4. ... Observe My commandments (˙udúdí), for the love
of My beauty.
4. ... By My life! He who hath drunk the choice wine of
fairness from the hands of My bountiful favour will
circle around My commandments (awámirí) that shine
above the Dayspring of My creation.
17. ... Hold ye fast unto His statutes (awámir Alláh) and
commandments (a˙kámihi), and be not of those who,
following their idle fancies and vain imaginings, have
clung to the standards fixed by their own selves, and cast
behind their backs the standards laid down by God.
67. ... Obey ye My commandments (awámirí), and follow
not the ungodly, they who have been reckoned as sinners
in God’s Holy Tablet.
88. ... Bind ye the broken with the hands of justice, and
crush the oppressor who flourisheth with the rod of the
commandments (awámir) of your Lord, the Ordainer, the
All-Wise.
98. ... that haply the people may keep the commandments
(a˙kám) of their Lord.
125. Say: True liberty consisteth in man’s submission
unto My commandments (awámirí), little as ye know it.

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
147. ... Keep ye the statutes and commandments of God
(˙udúd Alláh wa sunanihi); nay, guard them as ye would
your very eyes, and be not of those who suffer grievous
loss.
186. ... Say: This is the Dayspring of Divine knowledge, if
ye be of them that understand, and the Dawning-place of
God’s commandments (awámirihi), if ye be of those who
comprehend.
3. Ordinance
1. ... It behoveth everyone who reacheth this most
sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to
observe every ordinance (má amara bihi) of Him Who is
the Desire of the world.
20. ... Such was the ordinance (˙ukm) of My Forerunner,
He Who extolleth My Name in the night season and at
the break of day.
63. ... Such is the ordinance (al-amr) which, in truth and
justice, hath been recorded by the Pen of Revelation.
77. God hath relieved you of the ordinance (má nuzzila —
what has been revealed) laid down in the Bayan
concerning the destruction of books.
16. QUESTION: Is the ordinance (˙ukm) that the body
of the deceased should be carried no greater distance than
one hour’s journey applicable to transport by both land
and sea?
42. QUESTION: The ordinance (no word) of Óuqúqu’lláh
is revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
54. ANSWER: Her share of the inheritance should be
distributed among the seven categories of heirs according
to the ordinance (˙ukm) of the Book.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
71. ANSWER: The ordinance (˙ukm) of fasting is such as
hath already been revealed.
89. ANSWER: Nineteen out of one hundred is established
by the ordinance (˙ukm) of God.
94. ANSWER: ... This is an ordinance (˙udúd) of God,
and he who violateth it is verily of those who have
transgressed.
102. ANSWER: The ordinance (˙ukm) of God is that real
estate which hath ceased to yield income, that is, from
which no profit accrueth, is not liable to payment of
Huquq.
17. These are the ordinances (˙udúd) of God that have
been set down in the Books and Tablets by His Most
Exalted Pen.
166. ... Though he was occupied both night and day in
setting down what he conceived to be the laws and
ordinances of God (a˙kám Alláh) ...
37. QUESTION: In the holy ordinances (a˙kám)
governing inheritance, the residence and personal
clothing of the deceased have been allotted to the male
offspring.
63. ANSWER: ... Some years ago a number of the
ordinances (a˙kám) of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas including that
Obligatory Prayer were, for reasons of wisdom, recorded
separately and sent away together with other sacred
writings,
for
the
purposes
of
preservation
and
protection.

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture
4. Statutes
17. ... Hold ye fast unto His statutes (awámir Alláh) and
commandments (a˙kámihi), and be not of those who,
following their idle fancies and vain imaginings ...
45. ... Beware lest, through compassion, ye neglect to
carry out the statutes (no word) of the religion of God;
do that which hath been ...
71. ... Observe ye the statutes (˙udúd Alláh) and precepts
(sunanihi) of your Lord, and walk ye in this Way which
hath been laid out before you in righteousness and truth.
147 ... Keep ye the statutes and commandments of God
(˙udúd Alláh wa sunanihi) ...
5. Precepts
2. They whom God hath endued with insight will readily
recognize that the precepts (˙udúd) laid down by God
constitute the highest means for the maintenance of
order in the world and the security of its peoples.
29. ... The sincere among His servants will regard the
precepts (˙udúd) set forth by God as the Water of Life to
the followers of every faith ...
62 ... Take ye hold of the precepts (sunan) of God with all
your strength and power, and abandon the ways of the
ignorant.
71. ... Observe ye the statutes (˙udúd Alláh) and precepts
(sunanihi) of your Lord ...
93: ANSWER: ... Blessed be such men and women as pay
heed, and observe His precepts (no word).
Q&A: 106: ... Well is it with him who in the Day of God
hath laid fast hold upon His precepts (usúl Alláh) ...

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The above analysis enables us to derive a table of what
original terms in the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas have resulted in
these five English words in the translation:
Table of Legal Terms in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas

Óukm
Amr
Namús
Óudúd
Qánún
Sunan
Ußúl
None*
Total
Law
14.5†



22.5
Commandment
15‡




Ordinance
8.5†
2§




14.5
Statutes





Precepts




Totals
NOTES TO TABLE
* The column “None” indicates where the word appears in English but there
is no corresponding Arabic/Persian word in the original.
† In the phrase “Though he was occupied both night and day in setting down
what he conceived to be the laws and ordinances of God (a˙kám Alláh),”
both laws and ordinances appear to have been translated by a˙kám,
therefore I have given 0.5 to each.
‡ I am counting the occurrence “he might vindicate the truth of even one of
His commandments (amran min awámirihi),” as one although some may
consider it to be two.
§ I have included one occasion in which a construction using the verb amara
has been translated as “ordinance” (“It behoveth everyone who reacheth
this most sublime station ... to observe every ordinance (má amara bihi) of
Him Who is the Desire of the world.”) Some may prefer to omit this.

Legal Terms in Bahá’í Scripture

Conclusion
Shoghi Effendi does not seem to have maintained any pattern
in his translation of the words associated with “law”. He does
not seem to have distinguished any nuances of meaning in the 8-
10 Arabic/Persian words that occur in Bahá’í scripture and have
been translated by him as “law” or other equivalent terms. Nor
indeed does he consistently use such terms as “ordinance”,
“commandment”, “statute” or “precept” to designate any
particular Arabic/Persian word. He appears to have relied on
his literary sensibilities in choosing which words to use when
translating this range of words in Arabic/Persian to a parallel
range of words in English.

Shared Prosperity
How Does That Work?
Wendi Momen
In January 2013 Save the Children published a report in
response to the UN’s appeal for suggestions on what should
replace the eight Millennium Development Goals that come to
an end in 2015. Entitled ‘Ending Poverty in Our Generation’,
the report outlined an ambitious new development framework
which, it said, could help all countries end extreme poverty in
the next 20 years.1 It was the first time that an organisation
proposed specific new targets to replace the MDGs.2
The theme was taken up with alacrity and the idea of ending
extreme poverty by 2030 became rather an anthem in the
following months. On 2 April 2013 Dr. Jim Yong Kim, the
president of the World Bank, announced that the World Bank
Group’s mission to help free the world of poverty focused on
two specific goals: to end extreme poverty for the 1.2 billion
people who continue to live with hunger and destitution by
2030 and to promote shared prosperity.3
When asked what the term ‘shared prosperity’ meant for the
Bank he responded that ‘The shared prosperity goal captures
two key elements, economic growth and equity, and it will seek
to foster income growth among the bottom 40 percent of a
country’s population. Without sustained economic growth,
poor people are unlikely to increase their living standards. But
growth is not enough by itself. Improvement in the Shared
Prosperity Indicator requires growth to be inclusive of the less

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
well-off.’ But he went on to say that the goal of shared
prosperity goal did not imply reducing inequality by
redistributing wealth, by ‘suggesting that countries redistribute
an economic pie of a certain size, or to take from the rich and
give to the poor’. Rather, his point was that ‘if a country can
grow the size of its pie, while at the same time share it in ways
that boost the income of the bottom 40 percent of its
population, then it is moving toward shared prosperity. So the
goal combines the notions of rising prosperity and equity.’
‘Ending extreme poverty’ is defined by him as ‘the percentage
of people living with less than $1.25 a day to fall to no more
than 3 percent globally by 2030’. Promoting shared prosperity
means ‘fostering income growth of the bottom 40 percent of
the population in every country.’ He went on to say that
‘Ending extreme poverty within a generation and promoting
shared prosperity must be achieved in such a way as to be
sustainable over time and across generations. This requires
promoting environmental, social, and fiscal sustainability. We
need to secure the long-term future of our planet and its
resources so future generations do not find themselves in a
wasteland.’
The same theme was taken up by the UK Government, among
other governments. In its Corporate Report: Economic
development for shared prosperity and poverty reduction: a
strategic framework4 published on 31 January 2014 by the
Department for International Development (DfID), it stated:
Economic development is key to eradicating poverty.
Accelerating progress is essential if the goal of zero
extreme poverty by 2030 is to be achieved. The evidence
is clear that this will require much higher growth rates in
many countries, more inclusive growth — in particular
for girls and women, and actions to tackle the structural
barriers that deny poor people the chance to raise their
incomes and find jobs.

Shared Prosperity
The UK government can do more to help partner
governments address the causes as well as the symptoms
of poverty. This involves putting in place the building
blocks that are crucial for countries to exit poverty:
peace, the rule of law, property rights, stable business
conditions, and honest and responsive governments,
accountable to their citizens.
The Department for International Development’s
(DFID) economic development strategic framework
highlights the importance of the institutions that
encourage private investment and export growth: free
and fair markets; sound macroeconomic management;
clear and consistently applied policies, regulations and
laws;
secure
property
rights;
and
functioning
commercial courts.
The private sector is the engine of growth. Successful
businesses drive growth, create jobs and pay the taxes
that finance services and investment ...
The concept of shared prosperity as explained by the
organizations above stands in contrast to a view held by much
of civil society, an example of which is the left-wing New
Economy Working Group5 whose agenda is to ‘Promote public
values and policies that support an equitable distribution of
money and real wealth to meet the needs of all.’
‘Extreme inequality in the distribution of wealth,
income and opportunity,’ it says, ‘undermines and
distorts all that we care about — democracy and civic
life, economic health and vitality, ecological balance,
and physical health and culture. Moving toward greater
equality is critical to building healthy, democratic, and
economically sustainable communities. The solution is
not simply raising the floor and alleviating poverty, but
directly addressing the overconcentration of wealth.
Our team promotes a broad analysis of the impact of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
extreme inequalities and advocates for far-reaching
policy interventions that broaden prosperity and
redistribute dangerous concentrations of wealth.’
It frames its key proposals for sharing prosperity thus:
According to market fundamentalists, equality is not an
issue. Dismissing the issue of a finite ecosystem, they
believe that poverty is best ended by growing the
economy to bring up the bottom. If we lived in a world
of endless resources and open frontiers, this might be a
possibility. This, however, is not our reality. In the
absence of a strong commitment to policies that
maintain
an
equitable
distribution
of
income,
conventional economic growth increases the wealth gap
even as it destroys the environment.
Effective corrective action will require a number of
approaches, including:
o Income policies that assure every person access to an
income adequate to meet basic needs and favour those
who produce real value through productive work for
example teachers, entrepreneurs, factory and service
workers, family farmers, agricultural labourers, and
hospital attendants — over those who profit from
financial speculation and passive financial returns.
o Progressive taxation and public spending policies that
continuously recycle wealth from those who have far
more than they need at the top to those at the bottom
who lack access to the basic essentials of a secure and
fulfilling life.
o Equitable development policies. Land use and regional
development policies that limit sprawl, support multi-
strata development, and prevent geographical division
by class and race and between affluent and blighted
neighbourhoods.

Shared Prosperity
o Broad participation in ownership and access to
commonwealth. Work and ownership policies that
minimize the class divide by encouraging every person to
engage in productive work and to share in the benefits
and responsibilities of ownership. Broad access to the
shared wealth of the commons is also essential.
The key concepts I derive from these reports and statements
are:
From World Bank:
o the key elements of shared prosperity are economic
growth and equity
o without sustained economic growth, poor people are
unlikely to increase their living standards
o living standards are linked to economic growth and that
growth must be sustained
o promoting shared prosperity means ‘fostering income
growth of the bottom 40 percent of the population in
every country’
From DIFD UK:
o economic development is key to eradicating poverty
o this will require much higher growth rates in many
countries, more inclusive growth — in particular for girls
and women, and actions to tackle the structural barriers
that deny poor people the chance to raise their incomes
and find jobs
o The private sector is the engine of growth. Successful
businesses drive growth, create jobs and pay the taxes
that finance services and investment.
From New Economy Working Group:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
o moving toward greater equality is critical to building
healthy,
democratic,
and
economically
sustainable
communities
o the solution is not simply raising the floor and
alleviating poverty, but directly addressing the over-
concentration of wealth
o it advocates for far-reaching policy interventions that
broaden
prosperity
and
redistribute
dangerous
concentrations of wealth
Thus for all these agencies, prosperity is defined almost
exclusively in terms of having enough money, or being enabled
to find a way to access enough money, to buy enough goods
and services to provide for one’s and one’s family’s needs.
Shared prosperity is about money and enabling those without to
have it or to have more, either by baking a bigger pie so that
everyone can have a big enough piece to provide for his needs
(economic growth) OR by transferring a proportion of the pie
from those who have a large proportion to those who have
none or hardly any. In both instances it is about getting money
into the hands of people so that they can purchase the things
they need to live, including basics such as food and shelter and
healthcare, and the less tangible but still important ‘secure and
fulfilling life’, ‘democracy and civic life’, ‘economic health and
vitality’, ‘ecological balance’ and ‘culture’.
Poverty is similarly defined as a lack of money or the things
money can buy: as the Oxford Dictionary says, ‘The condition
of having little or no wealth or material possessions; indigence,
destitution, want (in various degrees)’. ‘Extreme poverty’ is
defined as ‘living with less than $1.25 a day’.
Using these definitions, the Save the Children report stated
that ‘The Millennium Development Goals have lifted 600
million people out of poverty ... the number of under-five
deaths worldwide declined from nearly 12 million in 1990 to
under 7 million in 2011, and an additional 56 million children

Shared Prosperity
enrolled in primary school from 1999 to 2009’. For these
institutions, the goal of shared prosperity is:
o increasing the welfare of the poor and vulnerable
o raising living standards
o building
healthy,
democratic,
and
economically
sustainable communities
The ways to achieve these goals are:
o sustained economic growth
o sustainable growth that achieves the maximum possible
increase in living standards of the less well-off (World
Bank)
o economic development
o accelerated economic growth (DFID)
o redistribution of wealth (NEWG)
These institutions identify the building blocks that are crucial
for countries to exit poverty as:
o peace
o the rule of law
o property rights
o stable business conditions
o honest and responsive governments, accountable to their
citizens
They posit that the key elements that are required to eradicate
poverty are:
o social, economic, and institutional arrangements that
foster welfare and income growth of the less well-off
o generating jobs and economic opportunities

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
o an investment in people, to promote growth and equity
over time and across generations with the aim of
creating an ‘opportunity society’
o implementing policies that create equality
o creating conditions that enable women to contribute to
their fullest potential
o fostering an inclusive society
o engaging and developing the private sector
o developing
institutions
that
encourage
private
investment and export growth
o improving international rules for shared prosperity
These institution consider that the instigators, or protagonists,
of development are:
o government
o the private sector
o investors
o policy-makers
The Bahá’í approach
Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live
in, and centre your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements. [GWB 213]
Identifying the issue
While there is much congruence between the approach to
shared prosperity of these organizations and that of the Bahá’í
community, there are some key differences. Perhaps the most
significant difference is in identifying what the core issue, or
problem, actually is. The agencies described above, and many

Shared Prosperity
others like them, identify the core problem as poverty itself,
which needs to be remedied urgently with a variety of measures
including policy changes; transfers of wealth; educational,
training and job opportunities; and economic growth. Bahá’ís,
however, identify the core problem as something else entirely,
requiring a completely different remedy:
We must not allow ourselves to forget the continuing,
appalling burden of suffering under which millions of
human beings are always groaning — a burden which
they have bourne for century upon century and which it
is the Mission of Bahá’u’lláh to lift at last. The principal
cause of this suffering, which one can witness wherever
one turns, is the corruption of human morals and the
prevalence of prejudice, suspicion, hatred, untrust-
worthiness, selfishness and tyranny among men. It is not
merely material well-being that people need. What they
desperately need is to know how to live their lives —
they need to know who they are, to what purpose they
exist, and how they should act towards one another;
and, once they know the answers to these questions they
need to be helped to gradually apply these answers to
every-day behaviour. It is to the solution of this basic
problem of mankind that the greater part of all our
energy and resources should be directed ... [From a letter
written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to the National
Spiritual Assembly of Italy, 19 November 1974]
Thus the Bahá’í approach identifies a failure of morals and
ethics — which is a spiritual issue — as the principal cause of
poverty. The approach taken by many of the agencies that are
working to establish shared prosperity neglect or minimize the
spiritual dimension of the human being and the effect this has
on every aspect of individual and community life. The nature
of the ‘problem’, meaning of shared prosperity, the nature of
poverty, the way to address it and who the key protagonists and
beneficiaries are, the nature of the human being, the nature of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
community and the ultimate purpose and goal of development
— for most development agencies all these are cast in primarily
in material terms, centring on material wealth and well-being,
while the Bahá’ís see these as primarily spiritual issues at their
root which require an understanding of the spiritual nature and
purpose of the human being to effectively and sustainably
address these material aspects of human life. That is, if the
spiritual, ethical, moral dimension of the human experience is
not addressed and corrected, if people do not understand the
purpose of their lives, then efforts to improve the well-being of
those in need, to lift them out of poverty, to extend the
material benefits of the world to them, will not, ultimately,
succeed, as the reasons why people are in this condition will not
have changed: they will still be subject to ‘prejudice, suspicion,
hatred, untrustworthiness, selfishness and tyranny’. People will
still exploit them, harm them, treat them unjustly — a condition
which exists for many people who live in the wealthiest parts of
the world.
Material and spiritual measures required
The Bahá’í International Community (BIC), the international
NGO representing the worldwide Bahá’í community in global
fora such as the United Nations, has for decades researched the
Bahá’í teachings that inform Bahá’í thinking on current issues,
including the economy, the prosperity of humankind and the
eradication of extreme poverty. It has identified a number of
principles and themes from the Bahá’í writings that bear on
these complex issues. Far from being a set of theoretical, noble
ideas, the insights offered by the Bahá’ís are born out of their
experience of applying Bahá’í principles and teachings to their
own reality. Bahá’ís are still in a ‘learning mode’ concerning
these issues and are cautiously applying their learning and
understanding to their own communities at the neighbourhood
and local levels. What they have learned so far is that both
material and spiritual measures are required to create shared
prosperity.

Shared Prosperity
The Bahá’í community sees all the issues of the day as
interrelated and requiring a holistic approach to their
resolution, including ‘an organic change in the structure of
present-day society’ [WOB 42]. It does not accept what it
considers to be the ‘erroneous belief that those with power and
resources already possess everything needed for society to
thrive’ [BIC Document #12-1412]. It takes a nuanced approach to
shared prosperity and poverty, does not seek simplistic answers
nor does it offer any. It takes into account not just the physical
and material aspects of human life but also the cultural, the
emotional, the psychological and the ineffable. Viewed from
this perspective, the current world situation is ‘rooted’ in the
destructive ‘values and attitudes that shape relationships at all
levels of society’, while ‘poverty can be described as the
absence of those ethical, social and material resources needed to
develop the moral, intellectual and social capacities of
individuals, communities and institutions’ [BIC Document #08-
0214].
The Bahá’í International Community confirms that a lack of
material wealth creates personal suffering, damages individuals
and communities and is a major obstacle to peace: ‘To be sure,
material wealth is of critical importance to the achievement of
individual and collective goals; by the same token, a strong
economy is a key component of a vibrant social order’ [BIC
Document #12-0201. At the same time, as noted above, it
considers that the materialistic world view does not capture the
totality of human experience and that the real causes of poverty
cannot be conceived terms of a lack of material wealth alone.
The Bahá’í Office of Social and Economic Development
points out:
To seek coherence between the spiritual and the material
does not imply that the material goals of development
are to be trivialized. It does require, however, the
rejection of approaches to development which define it
as the transfer to all societies of the ideological

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
convictions, the social structures, the economic
practices, the models of governance — in the final
analysis, the very patterns of life — prevalent in certain
highly industrialized regions of the world. [OSED, Social
Action]
Thus the Bahá’í approach to shared prosperity is not the
transfer of ideas or things from one community to another but
a complete rethinking of the nature of prosperity, of the human
being, of development and of civilization itself. That
rethinking is to be informed by the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, the
founder of the Bahá’í Faith.
Rethinking Prosperity
The Bahá’í community casts the concept of prosperity as a
matter of justice and the realignment of values:
Divine
justice
will
become
manifest
in
human
conditions and affairs, and all mankind will find
comfort and enjoyment in life ... in the aggregate
community there will be equalization and readjustment
of values and interests. In the future there will be no
very rich nor extremely poor. There will be an
equilibrium of interests, and a condition will be
established which will make both rich and poor
comfortable and content. [PUP 132]
Prosperity is seen as an aspect of the ‘ever-advancing
civilization’ which Bahá’u’lláh indicates ‘all men have been
created to carry forward’. [GWB 215] Such a civilization
requires:
... the articulation of a vibrant and compelling vision of
human prosperity at its widest and most inclusive. Such
a vision must address the need for harmony between
varying aspects of development (cultural, technological,
economic, social, moral, spiritual), and must give rise to

Shared Prosperity
a widely-shared sense of common purpose. This
approach, based in a recognition of the capacity and
responsibility of all to contribute to a better world
transcends us/them patterns of thought that divide the
world into ‘haves’ who grant opportunities for
participation to the ‘have nots’. [BIC Document #12-1412]
The task of creating such prosperity is more than ‘appeals
for action against the countless ills afflicting society. It must
be galvanized by a vision of human prosperity in the fullest
sense of the term — an awakening to the possibilities of the
spiritual and material well-being now brought within grasp.’
[BIC Document #95-0303]
Rethinking the nature of the human being
Fundamental to an understanding of the Bahá’í approach to
shared prosperity and development is its concept of the nature
of the human being. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the son Bahá’u’lláh, affirms
that ‘there are two natures in man: the physical nature and the
spiritual nature’ [SAQ 118] but that the enduring, eternal,
essential reality of the human being is spiritual [‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
BWF 262-3], that ‘Man is, in reality, a spiritual being’. [PT 72]
Bahá’u’lláh asserts that the human being a ‘mine rich in gems of
inestimable value’ that are to be dedicated to the service of
humanity. [GWB 260]
Thus any vision of shared prosperity and development must
be responsive to the reality of the spiritual nature of the human
being. The prevailing theories and practices of development,
however, tend to promote the satisfying of people’s material
ambitions over their spiritual goals. It is the purpose of Bahá’í
development processes to achieve shared prosperity to reverse
this balance.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Rethinking Development
Bahá’ís believe that ‘Every member of the human family has
not only the right to benefit from a materially and spiritually
prosperous civilization’ but also that such a civilization will
‘not emerge through the efforts exerted by a select group of
nations or even a network of national and international
agencies’. Rather, Bahá’ís understand that ‘the challenge must
be faced by all of humanity’ and that every person has an
‘obligation to contribute’ towards the construction of that
civilization’. ‘Social action should operate, then, on the
principle of universal participation.’ [OSED, Social Action]
Bahá’ís see the purpose of development as contributing
to the foundation for a new social and international
order, capable of creating and sustaining conditions in
which human beings can advance morally, culturally, and
intellectually.
This purpose is rooted in the understanding that the
transformation of society will involve profound changes
in the individual as well as the deliberate and systematic
re-creation of social structures.
Social change is not a project that one group of people
carries out for the benefit of another. Enduring change
depends upon coherent efforts to transform both the
individual and society. Social change is neither the result
of ‘upgrading the individual’ nor is it the result of an
exclusive focus on reforming social and political
structures. [BIC Document #11-0422]
Rethinking Capacity-Building
Thus a key component of development is capacity-building
within a population so that local people can develop the
attitudes, knowledge and skills that will enable them to address
the issues that affect them and then apply the most appropriate

Shared Prosperity
measures to effect change for themselves. Central to the Bahá’í
concept of capacity-building is that ‘activities should start on a
modest scale and only grow in complexity in keeping with
available human resources’ [Social Action]. This is very different
from the practice of outside agencies providing communities
with services such as water systems and schools, or individuals
with loans and clothing. When viewed from a popular
perspective, the Bahá’í approach of gradually building the
capacity within a local community to create its own services
and systems seems painfully slow and almost unfair, apparently
depriving people from the very things that will enable them to
progress quickly or to save lives. Yet it has often been seen that
by focusing only on providing people with goods and services,
the very people who should be the protagonists of development
are disempowered and become dependent on outside agencies.
While the goals of improving people’s lives and their living
conditions are important, to sustain that improvement by
enabling people ‘to contribute significantly to their own
progress’ [Social Action] is the fundamental goal of development
for Bahá’ís.
For Bahá’ís, the sequence of courses provided by the Ruhi
Institute has proved to be a most effective way to build
capacity gradually in individuals and in communities and to
transfer these capacities to institutions.
Rethinking Work
The concept of work, too, is recast by the Bahá’í approach
such that it is not merely a means towards material ends:
Work needs to be seen not only as a means to securing
an individual and family’s basic needs, but also as a
channel to developing one’s craft, refining one’s
character, and contributing to the welfare and progress
of society. Work, no matter how humble and simple,
when performed with an attitude of service, is a means

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
to contribute to the advancement of our communities,
countries and global society. [BIC Document #07-0211]
Bahá’u’lláh Himself lifted work to the station of worship:
It is incumbent upon each one of you to engage in some
occupation — such as a craft, a trade or the like. We
have exalted your engagement in such work to the rank
of worship of the one true God. [KA v. 33]
The significant of this concept for shared prosperity is
enormous, with implications for the economy as a whole; how
business operates, recruits and trains employees, and deals with
all stakeholders in a community; the shape of work within an
enterprise; and who the key players are in an enterprise and how
they are to be remunerated.
Rethinking civilization
As we have seen, Bahá’u’lláh states that humanity has been
created to advance civilization and lists the attributes that
people are to have in order to accomplish this:
All men have been created to carry forward an
ever-advancing civilization. The Almighty beareth Me
witness: To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy
of man. Those virtues that befit his dignity are
forbearance, mercy, compassion and loving-kindness
towards all the peoples and kindreds of the earth. [GWB
215]
The nature of the civilization that is to be carried forward,
however, is not merely a material one, as many might think.
Bahá’ís recognize that many aspects of today’s civilization do
not benefit people and are even dangerous and harmful to
individuals and humanity as a whole. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:

Shared Prosperity
...
until
material
achievements,
physical
accomplishments and human virtues are reinforced by
spiritual
perfections,
luminous
qualities
and
characteristics of mercy, no fruit or result shall issue
therefrom, nor will the happiness of the world of
humanity, which is the ultimate aim, be attained. For
although, on the one hand, material achievements and
the development of the physical world produce
prosperity, which exquisitely manifests its intended
aims, on the other hand dangers, severe calamities and
violent afflictions are imminent. [SWAB 283-4]
Further, what Bahá’ís anticipate is what Shoghi Effendi, head
of the Bahá’í Faith from 1921 to 1957, identifies as the ‘birth
and efflorescence of a world civilization’ [CF 6, emphasis mine],
not the extension of a western, Asian or other regional one, a
civilization that is ‘the child’ of the Most Great Peace. Such a
civilization is, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, a product of the spiritual
quality ‘love’:
Love is the spirit of life unto the adorned body of
mankind, the establisher of true civilization in this
mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable glory
upon every high-aiming race and nation. [SWAB 27]
The birth of such a civilization is a far-distant expectation
for Bahá’ís, who consider its establishment ‘as the furthermost
limits in the organization of human society’ along with the
‘emergence of a world community, the consciousness of world
citizenship’ and ‘the founding of a world ... culture’. [WO 163]
Nevertheless, Bahá’ís claim that it is the efforts that humanity
makes today to realign its values, morals and the material
welfare that derive from these that will begin the process of
building that civilization.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The goal of shared prosperity
For Bahá’ís the goal of shared prosperity is: ‘a just, peaceful
and sustainable society’, which provides a ‘harmonious dynamic
between the material and non-material (or moral) dimensions’
of human life, which has at its base the fundamental truth of
the equality of women and men and which incorporates ‘the
generation of knowledge, the cultivation of trust and
trustworthiness, eradication of racism and violence, promotion
of art, beauty, science, and the capacity for collaboration and
the peaceful resolution of conflicts’. [BIC Document #10-0503]
Bahá’ís believe that ways to achieve these goals are, on the
one hand,
o to incorporate ‘all people, regardless of material wealth,
into the advancement of civilization’
o to articulate ‘a vibrant and compelling vision of human
prosperity at its widest and most inclusive’
o to ensure the ‘harmony between varying aspects of
development (cultural, technological, economic, social,
moral, spiritual) so as to embed ‘a widely-shared sense of
common purpose’ [BIC Document #12-1412]
and, on the other,
o to recognize that ‘a flourishing society cannot be built
by the materially wealthy on behalf of the materially
poor’
o to reexamine and redesign social and economic
‘structures, which have contributed to the exclusion of
the materially poor’
o to genuinely reassess ‘the distribution of power and
wealth’, and to recognize and recast ‘the inherent
relationship between the extremes of wealth and
poverty’

Shared Prosperity
o to reframe ‘progress’ in ‘terms of the harmony between
the moral and material dimensions of human life’ [BIC
Document #12-1412]
Bahá’ís identify the building blocks that are crucial for
countries and people to exit poverty as:
o peace
o unity
o trustworthiness [BIC Document #05-1002]
o the freedom of conscience, thought, and religion [BIC
Document #05-1002]
o justice as the organizing principle of society [BIC
Document #95-0303]
o the elimination of the extremes of poverty and wealth
[Shoghi Effendi, ‘The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh’] through such
measures as taxation, fair pay and education
o the establishment of human rights and responsibilities,
with a balance struck between the preservation of
individual freedom and the promotion of the collective
good [BIC Document #12-1012]
o the equality of women and men [BIC Doc #12-0227]
o the rule of law
o constitutional and democratic government
o the protection of human rights
o economic development
o religious tolerance
o the promotion of useful sciences and technologies
o programmes of public welfare [all the above, The Universal
House of Justice, 26 November 2003, citing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SDC]

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The Bahá’ís posit that the key elements for the eradication of
poverty are:
o a recognition of the oneness of humanity [BIC Doc #05-
1002]
o a coherent relationship between the material and
spiritual dimensions of human life [BIC Doc #12-0201]
o recognition that every individual has a contribution to
make to the betterment of society [BIC Doc #12-0201]
o the ethic of reciprocity: an understanding that the
interests of the individual and of the wider community
are inextricably linked [BIC Doc #11-0118]
o voluntary sharing [‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to the Hague]
o consultation as the basic tool of decision-making and
learning [BIC Docs #12-0620 and #10-0503]
o deliberate and conscious changes in individual choices
and in institutional structures and norms [BIC Doc #10-
0503]
o universal education [The Universal House of Justice, 26
November 2003]
The Bahá’ís consider that the primary instigators, or
protagonists, of development are:
o ‘the people themselves’
o communities
o institutions
as ‘the responsibility lies with society — its communities and
social institutions — to make it possible for all people to
contribute their energies and talents to the construction of a
more just and equitable global community. [BIC Document #:12-
1412]

Shared Prosperity
For Bahá’ís, the beneficiaries of shared prosperity, of
development, are not just the materially poor or those already
wealthy who wish to capitalize on new markets, exploit an
emerging workforce or patent traditional resources for their
own gain:
Its beneficiaries must be all of the planet’s inhabitants,
without
distinction,
without
the
imposition
of
conditions unrelated to the fundamental goals of such a
reorganization of human affairs. [BIC Document #95-0303]
Conclusion
From the Bahá’í perspective, shared prosperity is more than
the amelioration of material deprivation, profound as that is. It
is not the transfer of goods, services, finances, knowledge,
technology and ideas from one community to another, nor is it
a project that one group of people carries out for the benefit
of another. It requires the development of a new mindset, one
that does not polarize people, making one set victims and
another the rescuers, but instead sees the whole world as one
community, one family. Every person is a participant in the
establishment of shared prosperity, which develops as
individuals, communities and their institutions acquire the
capacities, attitudes and skills that equip them to tackle the
main drivers of poverty and human suffering: ‘the corruption
of human morals and the prevalence of prejudice, suspicion,
hatred, untrustworthiness, selfishness and tyranny among men’.
Shared prosperity, then might be defined as a global
condition in which every person contributes to the building and
maintenance of an ever-advancing, new civilization in which
their
collective
creativity,
energy,
love,
compassion,
knowledge, intellects, spiritual and moral values, talents,
learning and resources are pooled to provide a just, peaceful,
equitable, safe, united, fulfilling, stimulating, beautiful,
intelligent, nurturing and learning environment which benefits

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
everyone, protects and sustains the planet and enables them to
live long, healthy, happy, productive lives in service to one
another, in love for humanity.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to the Hague. A letter written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
to the Central Organization for a Durable Peace, The Hague, 17
December 1919.
Bahá’í International Community (BIC). ‘Beyond Balancing the Scales:
The Roots of Equity, Justice and Prosperity for All’. The Bahá’í
International Community’s Contribution to the UN Global
Thematic Consultation on ‘Addressing Inequalities’. 12 October
2012, New York. BIC Document #12-1012.
———. ‘The empowerment of rural women and their role in poverty
and hunger eradication, development and current challenges’. The
Bahá’í International Community’s Contribution to the 56th
Session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of
Women. 27 February 2012, New York. BIC Document #12-0227.
———. ‘Eradicating Poverty: Moving Forward as One’. The Bahá’í
International Community’s Statement on Poverty. 14 February
2008. BIC Document #08-0214.
———. ‘Full Employment and Decent Work’. The Bahá’í International
Community’s Statement to the 46th Commission on Social
Development. 11 February 2007, New York. BIC Document #07-
0211.
———. ‘Initial considerations regarding the elimination of the
extremes of poverty and wealth’. The Bahá’í International
Community’s Contribution to the 50th Session of the United
Nations Commission on Social Development. 1 February 2012.
BIC Document #12-0201.
———. ‘The Prosperity of Humankind’. A statement prepared by the
Bahá’í International Community Office of Public Information,
Haifa, first distributed at the United Nations World Summit on
Social Development, Copenhagen, Denmark. 3 March 1995,
Copenhagen, Denmark. BIC Document #95-0303.
———. ‘Rethinking Prosperity: Forging Alternatives to a Culture of
Consumerism’. The Bahá’í International Community’s
Contribution to the 18th Session of the United Nations

Shared Prosperity
Commission on Sustainable Development. 3 May 2010, New York.
BIC Document #10-0503.
———. ‘Shifting culture to support universal and meaningful
education’. Oral Statement to the Annual Ministerial Review
Theme: Implementing the internationally agreed-upon goals and
commitments in regard to education. 22 April 2011, Geneva. BIC
Document #11-0422.
———. ‘Towards full and meaningful participation of persons living in
poverty in shaping processes and structures that impact their
lives’. The Bahá’í International Community=s Contribution to the
Report of the Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human
Rights Regarding the Participation of Persons Living in Poverty.
14 December 2012, Geneva. BIC Document #12-1412.
Department for International Development (DfID). Corporate
Report: Economic development for shared prosperity and poverty
reduction: a strategic framework. 31 January 2014.
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/economic-
development-for-shared-prosperity-and-poverty-reduction-a-
strategic-framework
The Nation. ‘UN plan sought to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030’.
9 January 2013. http://www.nation.com.pk/islamabad/09-Jan-
2013/un-plan-sought-to-eradicate-extreme-poverty-by-2030
New Economy Working Group. ‘Shared Prosperity’. http://www.
neweconomyworkinggroup.org/visions/shared-prosperity
Office of Social and Economic Development. ‘Social Action’. A
paper prepared by the Office of Social and Economic
Development at the Bahá’í World Centre. 26 November 2012.
Save the Children. ‘Ending Poverty in Our Generation’. January 2013.
http://www.savethechildren.org.uk/resources/online-library/endi
ng-poverty-our-generation
Shoghi Effendi. ‘The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh: A World Religion’.
Statement to the Special UN Committee on Palestine, 1947, online
at http://bahai-library.com/shoghieffendi_faith_bahaullah.
The Universal House of Justice. A letter written on behalf of the
Universal House of Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of
Italy, 19 November 1974.
———. A letter to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the Cradle of the
Faith, 26 November 2003.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The World Bank. ‘Shared Prosperity: A New Goal for a Changing
World’. May 8, 2013. http://www.nation.com.pk/islamabad/09-
Jan-2013/un-plan-sought-to-eradicate-extreme-poverty-by-2030

NOTES
1 http://www.savethechildren.org.uk/resources/online-library/ending-
poverty-our-generation
2 http://www.nation.com.pk/islamabad/09-Jan-2013/un-plan-sought-to-
eradicate-extreme-poverty-by-2030
3 http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2013/05/08/shared-
prosperity-goal-for-changing-world
4 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/economic-development-
for-shared-prosperity-and-poverty-reduction-a-strategic-framework
5 http://www.neweconomyworkinggroup.org/visions/shared-prosperity

A Hymn to Love
(Sáqí, bi-dih ábí)*†
Julio Savi
O Cup-Bearer, give me a drop
He is the Glorious
O Cup-Bearer, give me a drop of the mystic Flame,
[1]
That it may wash my soul from the whispers of the flesh,
A drop of water revealing the form of Fire,
A sparkle of fire manifesting the celestial Fount.
A glimmer of His image fell on the page of the Soul,
A hundred Hellenic wisdoms were confounded.
A spark of that Flame hit the Tree of Sinai,
A hundred Imranite Moseses were astounded.
A flame of that Fire turned into Love and pitched
[5]
Its tents in man’s water and clay and in his heart.
Who art Thou, O Love, that ‘cause of Thee the world
Is in turmoil and Luqman’s wisdom is envious?

* For a general introduction to this and other poems by Bahá’u’lláh see Julio
Savi, “Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian poems written before 1863,” in Lights of
Irfan 13 (2012): 317-361.
† This provisional translation has been done with the precious assistance of
Ms. Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli, lecturer of Persian language at the
University of Bologna, translated by Julio Savi.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Now Thou boastest: “I’m the Beloved’s splendour in the
world.”
Now
Thou
proclaimest:
“I’m
Myself
that
Divine
Countenance.”
Since Thou breathest the Beloved’s fragrance upon the soul,
Whatever claim Thou advancest, one might say Thou art
much better.
Thou art the Companion of the soul, the Sign of the Beloved,
From Thee tranquility of spirit cometh, from Thee distress.
If a ray from Thy Face shineth on the Divine realms,
[10]
Thou wilt see a hundred Cananaean Josephs put up for sale.
From Thee Joseph’s fragrance bloweth; from Thee the
Messianic Spirit;
Thou art the white-handed Moses, Thou, the flame on
Mount Paran.
Bound are the heads by Thy locks, pierced the hearts
By Thine anguish, be they of insane laymen or of Divine
sages.
I’m drunk of Thee, ‘cause of Thee I’m notorious, whether
Thou offerest me a hundred lives, or Thou slayest me.
If Thou art the Angel of death, how come that Thou revivest
me?
If Thou art the Reviver of bodies, how is it that Thou
actest as a snake?
If Thou graciously movest in the court of a king, Thou
changest
[15]
The king into a servant and the servant into a king.
A spark of Thy Face fell upon the rose-bush of the soul,
And lit its beauty as a crimson tulip.
O! What a breeze wafted announcing to the soul the glad
tidings

A Hymn to Love
That from the East of the Spirit that Divine Face hath
appeared.
Souls soared with yearning, hearts were enraptured in ecstasy,
Love fell in love with Him, and so did the essence of
creation.
Through His wisdom, the coincidence of opposites is made
manifest,
Now Love becometh a servant, now the Intellect a porter.
Stop tearing asunder the veil of mystery, O Dervish:
A cry riseth from the city of men and the world of brutes. [20]
A hymn to love: a poem revealed by Bahá’u’lláh
Sáqí, bi-dih ábí is a 20 one rhymed (-ání) distiches poem. It is
one among eight Persian poems, composed by Bahá’u’lláh,
signed “Dervish,” and published by the Iranian Bahá’í scholar
‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq Khávarí (1902–1972) in his multi-volume
anthology of the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í
Faith Má’idiy-i-Asmání (4:176-211). The eight Persian poems
quoted by Ishráq Khávarí are as follows:1
1. Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, that may be paraphrased as “Come
back and proffer a chalice” (qtd. in Ishráq Khávarí 186-7; see
also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:158-59);2
2. Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, that may be paraphrased as “The
Cup-bearer of the hidden Realm” (qtd. in Ishráq Khávarí
209-11; see also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:157-58);3
3. ‘Ishq az Sidriy-i-A‘lá ámad, that may be paraphrased as
“Love came from the loftiest Tree” (qtd. in Ishráq Khávarí
179-80; see also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:172-74);
4. Bi-Jánán ján hamí dar-yáft rah, that may be paraphrased
as “The soul hath found its way to the Beloved” (qtd. in
Ishráq Khávarí 176-8; see also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:167-69);

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
5. Sáqí, bi-dih ábí zán shu‘liy-i-rú˙ání, that may be
paraphrased as “O Cup-bearer, give me a drop of the
mystic flame” (qtd. In Ishráq Khávarí 192-4; see also Majmú’iy-i-
Áthár 30:171-72);
6. Mast-and bulbulán, that may be paraphrased as
“Nightingales get inebriated” (qtd. in Ishráq Khávarí 194-6;
see also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:169-71);4
7. Sa˙ar ámad bi bistar-am yár, that may be paraphrased as
“At dawn the Friend came to my bed” (qtd. in Ishráq
Khávarí 181-84; see also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:163-65);
8. But-i-má ámad bá ba††í-u bádih, that may be
paraphrased as “Our Charmer came with a glass and
wine” (qtd. in Ishráq Khávarí 188-92; see also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár
30:159-63).
These eight poems are also quoted in Majmú’iy-i-Áthár
30:157-74. Excerpts from a few of them are included, together
with excerpts from other poems by Bahá’u’lláh, by the Iranian
Bahá’í scholar Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il Mázandarání (ca.1880–
1957), in volume 4 of his Táríkh ¸uhúru’l-Óaqq (History of the
Manifestation of Truth), a nine volume history of the Bábí and
Bahá’í religions (141-2). Two of them are mentioned in the Bahá’í
World volumes among “Bahá’u’lláh Best Known Works.” They
are Báz Áv-u Bi-Dih Jámí and Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá. Franklin D.
Lewis, an expert in Persian Language and Literature, has offered
three different translations of Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá (“Short
Poem” 86-9). Three of these poems are mentioned, and a few
verses translated, by Stephen N. Lambden, an English Bahá’í
scholar focusing on Shi‘i Islam and Qajar Persia, early
Shaykhism, the Writings of the Báb, the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, in his “Sinaitic Mysteries” (116-7): Bí jánán ján hamí
daryaft, Sáqí bidih ábí, Mast-and bulbulán.

A Hymn to Love
Historical hints
These eight poems were most probably written in Kurdistan,
where Bahá’u’lláh remained from 10 April 1854 to 19 March
1856 and, in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, “lived in poverty,” wearing
the “garments . . . of the poor and needy” and eating the “food .
. . of the indigent and lowly . . .” (qtd. in GPB124, sec.7, para.42).
Lewis writes about them:
The information in God Passes By5 seems to suggest that
these poems signed “Dervish” date to the earlier phase
of Bahá’u’lláh’s residence at Sar-Galú, probably some
time between the Spring of 1854 and the Winter of
1854–55. However, we cannot yet completely rule out
the possibility that they were composed later, while at
the Khálidí lodge in Sulaymáníyyih, or perhaps even in
the period shortly after his return to Baghdad. (“Short
Poem” 84)
The attribution of their drafting to the years of Bahá’u’lláh’s
stay in Kurdistan (1854–1856), during which He was in touch
with the local Sufi communities, is also upheld by Mázandarání
in his Táríkh-i-¸uhúru’l-Óaqq (4:139). Moreover, this attribution
seems confirmed by their takhalluß, “Dervish,” the nom de
plume introduced into the final verse of these eight poems
according to the use of Persian lyrics. In that period Bahá’u’lláh
had adopted the surname of Dervísh Mu˙ammad (see Lewis, “Short
Poem” 84). In this paper, we will comment only upon the poem
which begins Sáqí, bi-dih ábí.
Literary aspects
As to its form, this specific composition may be defined a
poem in the light of the following definition of poetry, given
by Lewis as to Nineteenth century Persia: “rhymed speech
(moqafâ) composed in lines (bayt / abyât) following one of the
established quantitative meters (bahr / bohur) and arranged

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
according to a particular form” (“Poetry as Revelation” 102).
Specifically, Sáqí, bi-dih ábí seems a ghazal.
As to the ghazal, the French Orientalist Régis Blachère (1900–
1973), a profound interpreter of the Koran, which he translated
into French (1947), writes in the Encyclopaedia of Islam that
ghazal means “‘song, elegy of love,’ often also ‘the erotico-elegiac
genre.’ The term is Arabic, but passed into Persian, Turkish and
Urdu and acquired a special sense in these languages.”
The term ghazal comes from the Arabic root ghazala:
He talked, and acted in an amatory and enticing manner,
with a woman, or with women; he practised . . . the talk,
and actions, and circumstances, occurring between the
lover and the object of love. (Lane 6:39)
And thus the Lane Arabic-English Lexicon defines the word
ghazal as
The talks, and actions, and circumstances, occurring
between the lover and the object of love . . . an
inclining to foolish and youthful conduct, or a
manifesting of passionate love, and becoming notorious
for affections to women . . . talk, and amatory and
enticing conduct, with women; or play, sport, dalliance,
or wanton conduct, and amorous talk, with women . . .
play, sport, or diversion, with women . . . or the talk of
young men and [or with] young women: . . . praise of
what are apparent of the members of the object of love:
or the mention of the days of union and of disunion: or
the like thereof. (Lane 6:39)
Blachère explains:
the ghazal was . . . a man’s song addressed to a girl;
contamination by the noun ghazál “gazelle,” from the
images and comparisons associated with it, is not
perhaps to be excluded (cf. “to make sheep’s eyes”).

A Hymn to Love
Whatever the reason, the idea evoked by the term
ghazal, like the English “gallantry” and particularly the
noun “gallant,” now fallen into disuse, became
elaborated in a realm of ideas where there mingle the
notions of flirtation, compliments made to a lady,
complaints at her coldness or inaccessibility and the
description of effeminate languishing attitudes on the
part of the lover . . .
As to Persian ghazals, Alessandro Bausani (1921–1988), a
well-known Italian Islamicist and a deep knower of Persian
religiosity, says that
A widely accepted opinion is that the ghazal, an
unknown genre in the ancient Arabic poetry, derived
from an extrapolation and an autonomous use of the
tashbíb [first part] of the qaßidè. However it also may
be that, without excluding the former hypothesis, the
ghazal may have derived from some form of oral,
popular autochthonous poetry. (“Letteratura neopersiana” 176)
Bausani also writes that the ghazal is “the primary instrument
of Persian lyrics” (ibid.). He explains that qaßídihs and ghazals
are technically different from one another only for their
different “length and different subjects” (ibid.). The former was
mainly used in Persia as “an instrument of panegyric or
philosophic and moralizing poetry” (ibid.). The latter dealt with
“wine, love, springtime and mystics” (ibid. 176). Edward G.
Browne (1862–1926), the renowned British Orientalist, also
explains: “The ghazal differs from the qaßída mainly in subject
and length. The former is generally erotic or mystical, and
seldom exceeds ten or a dozen bayts; the latter may be a
panegyric, or a satire, or it may be didactic, philosophical,
religious” (27). While speaking about Persian ghazals of the
10th–13th centuries, Bausani also explains that in those
centuries the ghazal has “as its object the ma‘shúḳ ‘the Beloved,’
whereas the ḳaßída has as its object the mamdú˙, ‘the Praised’

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
(Prince or patron).” However, he adds, in the period from the
13th to the 16th century “the chief object of the ghazal, the
ma‘shúḳ, the (earthly) Beloved, becomes inextricably connected
not only with the ma‘búd [literally, the Adored One], the divine
Beloved (God, or better His representative on earth, the
mystical Initiator) but even with the mamdú˙ [literally, the
Celebrated One], the traditional object of the ḳaßída” (“Ghazal.
ii. In Persian literature”).
The features of the Persian ghazals, as explained by Bausani
in the Encyclopaedia of Islam,6 may be summarized as follows:
1. Length: “it consists of a few bayts (verses, or distiches),
generally not less than five and no more than twelve” (Bausani).
Other authors consider up to 15 verses as acceptable for a
ghazal (Rossi, Grammatica 92). This is true for Khájih Shamsu’d-
Dín Mu˙ammad Óáfi.z-i-Shírází (ca.1318–1390), for example,
whose Díván comprises only two ghazals longer than 15 verses.
But Mawláná Jalál ad-Dín Rúmí (1207–1273), one of the
greatest Persian poets, wrote some ghazals that have more than
15 verses, up to 29 couplets. However, all scholars agree that a
ghazal should be short. It has been defined as “an older Iranian
cousin to European sonnets and short odes” (Hilmann, “Hâfez and
the Persian ghazal” G).
2. Rhyme: “It has a single rhyme (often accompanied by a
radíf); in the first bayt, called ma†la‘, both hemistichs too
rhyme together” (Bausani).
3. Nom de plume: “the last bayt, called maḳ†a‘, contains the
nom-de-plume (takhalluß) of the author” (Bausani).
4. Contents: “the contents of the ghazal are descriptions of
the emotions of the poet in front of love, spring, wine, God,
etc., often inextricably connected” (Bausani).
5. “In classical ghazal each verse forms a closed unit, only
slightly interconnected with the others. To explain this feature
of the ghazal, some modern scholars have invoked the
‘psychology of depth’ to show that in the ghazal there is unity,

A Hymn to Love
but an unconscious one. However this may be, external
incongruity would seem to be a real rule in classic Persian
poetry. We are in the presence of a bunch of motifs only lightly
tied together” (Bausani). This rule admits exceptions: “If two or
more verses belong in sense to each other, they are called
muḳa††a” (Wilberforce-Clarke xiv).
Finally Wilberforce-Clark remarks about ghazal:
The poem must be finished, without defects in rhyme,
and pure in language, all obsolete words, or vulgar
expressions being avoided. Each verse must convey a
complete thought. The verses are strung like pearls on a
thread, which makes them a necklace, the value whereof
lies in the value of each pearl, not in the thread. (ibid.)
As to the features of the ghazal in the times immediately
before Bahá’u’lláh, Bausani writes:
The fourth period [of Persian ghazal], that of the so-
called Indian style (10th/16th to 12th/18th centuries) . .
. sees an intellectual reflection on the accepted symbols
of the classical ghazal, which becomes an arena for a
quasi-philosophical exercise of the mind. The ghazal
finds a renewed congruity of meaning, and its
protagonist, instead of the ma‘shúḳ/mamdú˙/ma‘búd
[that is, the Beloved, the Adored One, the Celebrated
One] seems to be the Mind of its Author, creating ever
new purely intellectual combinations of the old worn-
out symbols. (Bausani)
Sáqí bi-dih ábí seems to meet all these requirements, the most
important exception being its length: 20 verses. However, as
has been said above, both Óáfi.z and Rúmí wrote some ghazals
with more than 20 verses. The main reason why this poem can
be seen as a ghazal is that its central theme is Love. In fact, it
may be considered as a hymn to Love, its protagonist. Like the
other seven poems which have been mentioned at the beginning

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
of this paper, Sáqí bi-dih ábí seemingly alludes to Bahá’u’lláh’s
mystic encounter with the Most Great Spirit in the Síyáh-Chál,
the subterranean dungeon in Teheran where He was confined
from middle August to December 1852, also mentioned in
several biographical passages of His Writings. In this poem the
Most Great Spirit is described first as Water and Fire, and then
as Love itself. Many verses are devoted to a description of Love
and of its impact on human hearts and on the world.
A slow reading of the poem
The following thoughts are offered only as personal
reflections on the verses revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, whose perusal
may evoke remembrances of His own Writings as well as of
verses of earlier poets.
Huva’l-‘Azíz7
He is the Glorious
The invocation of one of the names of God, usually the name
Allah, at the beginning of a script is very frequent in the Islamic
world. The invocation Huv’Alláh means He is God. Francis
Joseph Steingass (1825–1903), the German linguist expert on
Arabic, Persian and Sanskrit who authored a well-known
Persian–English dictionary, writes about Huva, in Arabic huwa,
and in Persian also hú:
He; he is; a name of God;—also hú’i náma, The name of
God, generally accompanied by one or more of his
attributes, written in front of a letter or book as an
auspicious omen . . . (Steingass 1516)
As to Alláh, Steingass writes: “God: The God, by way of
eminence (being compounded of the article al, The, and iláh, a
God)” (Steingass 95). The invocation appears at the beginning of a

A Hymn to Love
few of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings, both in poetry, as for example in
Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, and ‘Ishq az Sidriy-i-A‘lá ámad, and in
prose. The Tablets translated into English which begin with this
invocation comprise Ishráqát, Law˙-i-Maqßúd, a Tablet quoted
by Bahá’u’lláh in Súriy-i-Haykal: Law˙-i-Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh (108-
11, paras.210-4), a Tablet quoted in Fire and Light (16, no. VII), the
Tablet to Badí‘ (qtd. in Balyuzi, King of Glory 299), a prayer (qtd. in
BP43-5) and section 106 of “Questions and Answers” (139-40).
About the invocation “He is God,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:
Thou hast asked regarding the phrase, “He is God!”
written above the Tablets. By this word it is intended
that no one hath any access to the Invisible Essence. The
way is barred and the road is impassable. In this world
all men must turn their faces toward “Him-whom God-
shall-Manifest.” He is the “Dawning-place of Divinity”
and the “Manifestation of Deity.” He is the “Ultimate
Goal,” the “Adored One” of all and the “Worshipped
One” of all. Otherwise, whatever flashes through the
mind is not that Essence of essences and the Reality of
realities; nay, rather it is pure imagination woven by
man
and
is
surrounded,
not
the
surrounding.
Consequently, it returns finally to the realm of
supposition and conjectures. (TAB3:485)
Taherzadeh wrote in this regard, that whenever Bahá’u’lláh
quotes the Koranic verse: “There is none other God but God” at
the beginning of a Tablet, He:
proclaims in majestic and powerful language that in this
day He has removed the letter of negation which had
been placed before that of affirmation. This phrase,
which the Prophet of Islam regarded as the cornerstone
of His Faith, is now in the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
symbolically replaced by the affirmative phrase “He is
God.” This signifies that the Author of this Faith holds
within His own hands the reins of authority, and, unlike

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
the Dispensations of the past, no one will have the
power to wrest it from Him. Hence the assurance in His
Writings that this is “the Day which shall not be
followed by night.” (160)
In this poem Bahá’u’lláh mentions God’s attribute al-‘Azíz,
“Excellent; precious, dear, valuable, rare, choice; magnificent,
glorious, powerful; venerable, pious, holy; a king, ruler, prime
minister (especially in Egypt)” (Steingass 848). This adjective has
been translated “the Glorious.” It is the ninth among the ninety-
nine beautiful Names of God that Moslem theologians have
found in the Koran. In the Bahá’í Writings it has been
translated the “Mightiest” (Bahá’u’lláh, qtd. in BP92, Long Healing
Prayer; Nafahat-i Fa∂l 2:17, Law˙-i-Anta’l-Káfí).
Sáqí, bi-dih ábí zán shu‘liy-i-rú˙ání,
Tá kih bi-shúyad ján-rá az vasvasiy-i-nafsání,
O Cup-bearer, give me a drop of the mystic Flame,
That it may wash my soul from the whispers of the flesh,
Bahá’u’lláh here addresses His Beloved, perhaps the Most
Great Spirit, Whom He had seen as a Maid, calling Him Cup-
Bearer. This familiar personage of Persian mystic poetry has his
origin in the Koran and in the Traditions. Bausani explains that
Sufis relate the cup-bearer to “the ancient mystic legend
wherefore at the beginning of the Divine Love, the cup-bearer
(sáqí), as God-the Beloved, poured the wine for God-the Lover
during forty successive dawns and thus he created the world”
(“Letteratura neopersiana” 162; see Religion in Iran 277). According to
the German Orientalist Annemarie Schimmel (1922–2003), Sufis
saw this moment in poetical imagery as a spiritual
banquet in which the wine of Love was distributed to
humanity so that everyone received the share which he
or she will have in this life. Here, the imagery of wine is

A Hymn to Love
used not for the final goal of the mystic’s unification
with God and his being filled with Him, but rather as the
starting point of the flow of Divine grace at the
beginning of time. (Deciphering 109)
It is the rúz-i-alast, the metahystorical morning when human
souls entered into the eternal Covenant with their Creator,
which is the basis of their life on earth and of the development
of human civilization (see HW, Persian, no.19). Carlo Saccone, an
expert in and a translator of Persian poetry into Italian,
comprising the whole Díván by Óáfi.z, writes in this regard that
the wine which he [the cup-bearer], incessantly invoked
and implored, pours into the cup of the lover\poet
clearly reveals its sacred imprinting, i.e., it is a
transposition of the “mysterious” wine which the
youthful cup-bearers of Muslim paradise offer to the
blessed spirits. (44)
According to Saccone, the cup-bearer sometimes symbolizes
the beloved himself, as
an initiator, i.e., he who . . . initiates the poet . . . into
the mysteries of wine and love for him [God]. [And the
poet’s] initiation . . . is essentially a summon to folly, to
disarm one’s intellect and its analytic processes, because
the lover will attain unto the reunion with his friend . . .
only in the condition of “sacred folly,” fostered by his
drunkenness. (ibid. 49, 50)
A poem by Rúmí also begins with an invocation to the sáqí
and a request of wine:
Happy-cheeked sáqí of mine, give the cup (jám) like the
pomegranate blossom (gulnár); if for my sake you will
not give for the sake of the heart of the Beloved (Yár).
(Mystical Poems 2:70, no.290, v.1; Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.2283)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
In Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, the lover asks the Cup-Bearer to give him
a drop of the Mystic flame, combining three images: water, ábí,
here translated “drop,” wine (the Cup-Bearer), and fire, shu‘lih,
“Light, splendour, lustre, shining, flashing, coruscation; blaze,
flash, fire, flame” (Steingass 747). These three images are often
associated in Persian mystical poetry. Bausani writes that in
Persian literature “the wine is also fire, and in this it is similar to
the alchemists’ water, which is also fire . . . In fact in traditional
lyric poetry the Wine is often called ‘water’ and compared to
the ‘Water of Life’ (âb-i haivân)” (Religion in Iran 272).
In the second hemistich the lover explains why he wants a
drop of the mystical flame: he wants to cleanse his soul from
the whispers of the flesh. Bahá’u’lláh uses two images: the
whispers and the flesh. As to the Koranic image of the whispers,
vasvasih, “Inspiring, suggesting (one’s own mind or Satan); a
suggestion; instinct; fear, anxiety; conscience; temptation”
(Steingass 1468), translated by Shoghi Effendi as “whisper” (Law˙-i-
Dhabíh 246, para.13; Muntakhabátí 157), the image of “the whispers
of the flesh (vasvasiy-i-nafsání)” comes from the Koran:
In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful.
Say: I betake me for refuge to the Lord of Men, The
King of men, The God of men, Against the mischief of
the stealthily withdrawing whisperer (al-waswási), Who
whispereth in man’s breast—Against djinn and men.
(114:1-6, Rodwell)
This image is also used by mystical poets. Óáfi.z writes:
In love’s path (ráh-i-‘ishq) Ahriman’s8 temptations (vasvasiy-
i-Ahriman) are many:
Sense keep; and to Surúsh’s9 message the ear of the heart
put. (Díván 744, “Ghazalyát,” no.444, v.6; Divan 411, no.398,
v.2)
Bahá’u’lláh uses the same image in other passages, as for
example:

A Hymn to Love
Keep us safe, then, through Thine unfailing protection,
O Thou the Beloved of the entire creation and the
Desire of the whole universe, from them whom Thou
hast made to be the manifestations of the Evil
Whisperer, who whispers (yuwaswisúna) in men’s breasts
(ßudúru’n-nás). (PM233, sec.144, para.2; Munáját 156)
Know verily that Knowledge is of two kinds: Divine and
Satanic. The one welleth out from the fountain of
divine inspiration; the other is but a reflection of vain
and obscure thoughts. The source of the former is God
Himself; the motive-force of the latter the whisperings
of selfish desire (vasávas-i-nafsání). (KI69, para.76; KMI53)
Sharp must be thy sight, O Dhabí˙, and adamant thy
soul, and brass-like thy feet, if thou wishest to be
unshaken by the assaults of the selfish desires that
whisper (vasávis) in men’s breasts. (GWB245-6, sec. CXV,
para.13)
. . . in whose soul (nafs) Satan (Shay†án) hath whispered
(waswasa) (qtd. in GPB141, sec.8, para.30)10
The Evil Whisperer, mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh and in the
Koran (al-waswási) and related by Bahá’u’lláh to Satan
(shay†án), seems to be the human lower nature personified as
Satan, a nature to which Bahá’u’lláh refers as “the Satan of self
(shay†án-i-nafs)” (KI112; KMI84). This lower nature is our ego,
that is proud of itself and pretends to be self-sufficient. It is
the “serpent” that seduced Eve in the Garden of Eden. The Bible
says: “Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the
field which the Lord God had made” (Genesis 3:1 KJB). The
Hebrew word used to refer to the serpent in this verse is
nâchâsh, from the verb nâchash, “to hiss, i.e. whisper” (Strong,
“A Concise Dictionary” 78, no.5172). In one of His talks ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explained that “the evil spirit, Satan or whatever is
interpreted as evil, refers to the lower nature in man” (PUP294).
He explained the same concept in a Letter in which He

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
mentions certain friends that had asked Him advice on material
aspects of their lives. He is reported to have answered:
Tell them they should do as they think best in these
matters. Should they marry, divorce, leave their homes,
move to other places, etc.,—all these matters pertaining
to their material affairs—Abdul Baha says:
“They must do as they wish; they must solve their own
problems; they are grown-ups. We do not like to tell
people what they should do in these matters. My work is
universal; my time and thoughts are for the whole world
on the most important problems relating to affairs that
concern the spiritual welfare of nations and individuals.
When the believers are insistent, Abdul Baha must give
them answers, and it is their wish always that Abdul
Baha grants them. He knows what their wish in reality is.
They must make mistakes to learn, and to unfold the
higher which is within themselves. The initial wish does
not come from Abdul Baha. It comes from them. It is
generally clothed with such words as these: ‘We only
wish to do that which Abdul Baha wishes us to do.’ And
they are sincere in this, for they do not know the
subtlety of the ego of man. It is the Tempter (the subtle
serpent of the mind), and the poor soul not entirely
emancipated from its suggestions is deceived until
entirely severed from all save God.” (qtd. in Baha’i
Scriptures 487, sec.936)
As to the flesh, the adjective nafsání, “Lewd, sensual;
spiritual, vital”
(Steingass 1416), derives from nafs, that
sometimes in Persian corresponds to that which we call flesh, in
the sense of the weak side of man, that side which indulges to
sin. Mußlih ad-Dín Sa‘dí (ca.1184–1291) writes.
How will know the truth of love (˙aqíqat-i-‘ishq) he who
is subjected to the passions of the flesh (haváy-i-
nafsání)? (“Ghazalyát,” no.610, v.8)

A Hymn to Love
Bahá’u’lláh writes in His Lawh-i-Laylatu’l-Quds: “Burn away,
wholly for the sake of the Well-Beloved (al-Ma˙búb), the veil
of self (˙ujubát-i-nafsáníyyih)” (316, para.1; Muntakhabátí 203). In
the Seven Valleys He mentions “the veils of the Satanic self
(˙ijáb-háy-i-nafs-i-shay†ání)” (SV7; Haft Vádí 102) that must be
burnt by the fire of love so that the mystical seeker may enter
the Valley of Knowledge (SV12). This is one of the main
functions of the mystic wine, the Word of God, assisting the
soul to proceed from the stage of the nafs-i-ammarih, the
commanding soul, or the insistent self, to higher stages of her
spiritual evolution.
Zán áb kaz-ú shud ßúrat-i-átash paydá,
Zán nár kaz-ú .záhir án Kawthar-i-Rú˙ání.
A drop of water revealing the form of Fire,
A sparkle of fire manifesting the celestial Fount.
The combination of wine, fire and water continues in the
second distich. The first hemistich identifies wine, here called
water, áb, and fire—átash, in the first hemistich and nár in the
second. Wine is fire, because it is conducive to the intoxication
of love that burns away, as a fire, the veils of the Satanic self.
The fire of wine also is the celestial Fount (kawthar-i-rú˙ání),
because wine also is water of life, that is the Word of God. The
word Kawthar (literally, abundance) is mentioned in Súra 108,
“Truly we have given thee an abundance” (108:1, Rodwell).
Edward William Lane (1801–1876), the leading British Arabicist
scholar who authored the monumental Arabic-English Lexicon,
describes Kawthar as “A certain river in paradise . . . from
which flow all the [other] river thereof . . . pertaining specially
to the Prophet, described as being whiter than milk and sweeter
than honey and as having its margin composed of pavilions of
hollowed pearls” (Lane 7:122). The word has a connotation of
abundance, because it derives from the Arabic root kithara, “It

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
was, or became, much, copious, abundant, many, numerous,
great in number or quantity; it multiplied; it accumulated” (Lane
7:121). It is the Water of Life, a recurrent motif of both Sufi
literature and Bahá’í Writings. In the first case it has mythical
and legendary connotations, in the second it is a poetic image
to describe mostly the Words of the Manifestation of God and
their regenerating power.
Yik jilvih11 zi12 ‘aks-ash bar ßaf˙iy-i-Ján uftád,
Válih shud13 az án jilvih ßad ˙ikmat-i-Yúnání.
A glimmer of His image fell on the page of the Soul,
A hundred Hellenic wisdoms were confounded.
The “glimmer (jilvih) of His image” is the unveiling of the
Beloved. This is one of the meanings of the world jilvih,
“Presenting a bride to her husband adorned and unveiled; the
meeting of the bride and bridegroom; the nuptial bed; the bridal
ornaments; splendour, lustre, effulgence, transfiguration”
(Steingass 369). However here it has been translated “glimmer”
following the example of Shoghi Effendi who translated it as
“splendour” (SWAB32, sec.15).
The “page of the Soul (ßaf˙iy-i-Ján)” is another typical image
of Sufi poetry. Rúmí mentions in his Mathnaví an equivalent
locution, “the leaf (surface) of the heart (varaq-i-dil).” Varaq
means “A leaf of a tree or of paper; paper cut out into any
shape” (Steingass 1464). He writes:
God hath given thee the polishing instrument (ßayqal),
Reason (‘aql), to the end thereby the leaf (surface) of the
heart (varaq-i-dil) may be made resplendent. (4:2475)
It is the soul, here compared to a page, reflecting the Beauty
of the Beloved. This verse by Rúmí also mentions a “polishing
instrument (ßayqal), Reason (‘aql).” A “polishing instrument” is

A Hymn to Love
also mentioned in the Valley of Love: “A pure heart is as a
mirror; cleanse it with the burnish of love (ßayqal-i-˙ubb) and
severance from all save God, that the true sun may shine within
it and the eternal morning dawn” (SV21; Haft Vádí 113). This first
hemistich is reminiscent of the words of Genesis:
Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. (Genesis
1:26)
It also is reminiscent of the following Tradition:
God created Adam in His image (khalaqa Alláh ádama
‘alá ßúratihi). (qtd. in Schimmel, Mystical Dimensions 188;
Furúzánfar no.595)
It finally reminds us of the Aristotelian “tabula rasa,” the
unscribed tablet.14 The soul is seemingly described as a page
upon which the beauteous features of the Face of the Lord can
be drawn.
The second hemistich hints at the impotence of philosophy,
the “hundred Hellenic wisdoms,” and thus of the human
intellect, when it is not assisted by Revelation. This concept
was later on developed by Bahá’u’lláh in His Law˙-i-Óikmat, in
which He states that Greece was “a Seat of Wisdom for a
prolonged period” (149-50). Then He adds:
Although it is recognized that the contemporary men of
learning are highly qualified in philosophy, arts and
crafts, yet were anyone to observe with a discriminating
eye he would readily comprehend that most of this
knowledge hath been acquired from the sages of the past
[i.e. the Greek philosophers], for it is they who have laid
the foundation of philosophy, reared its structure and
reinforced its pillars . . . The sages aforetime acquired
their knowledge from the Prophets, inasmuch as the
latter were the Exponents of divine philosophy and the
Revealers of heavenly mysteries. Men quaffed the

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
crystal, living waters of Their utterance, while others
satisfied themselves with the dregs. Everyone receiveth a
portion according to his measure . . . The essence and
the fundamentals of philosophy have emanated from the
Prophets. That the people differ concerning the inner
meanings and mysteries thereof is to be attributed to the
divergence of their views and minds. (144-5, comment in
brackets added)
Yik jadhvih az án shu‘lih bar Sidriy-i-Síná zad,
Madhúsh az án jadhvih ßad Músíy-i-‘Imrání.
A spark of that flame hit the Tree of Sinai,
A hundred Imranite Moseses were astounded.
This distich refers to the story of Moses, the Burning Bush
and Moses’s swoon when God showed Himself to Him. Fire
seems here identified with the Most Great Spirit. Lambden
comments upon this verse as follows:
So powerful is the fiery “water” of the stunning Divine
Cupbearer (sáqí) that but a “firebrand” (jadhwa) ignited
from its flame in the Sinaitic Lote-Tree would suffice to
throw one hundred Imranite Moseses into a state of
bewildered astonishment. (116)
Moses is called Imranite from the name, Imran, which
Muslim tradition ascribes to His father, called Amran in the
Bible (Exodus 6:20).
Yik shu‘lih az án átash shud, ‘Ishq15 bi-zad khar-gáh
Dar áb-u gil-i-ádam ham dar dil-i-insání.
A flame burst out from that fire and Love pitched

A Hymn to Love
Its tent in man’s water and clay and in his heart.
This distich refers to the legend that man is moulded of
water and clay, mentioned by many Persian poets. For example
Rúmí writes in this vein in his Mathnaví:
Where were we when the Judge of Judgement (Day) was
sowing reason (‘aql) in the water and clay (‘ab-u †ín) of
Adam? (6:3134)
Bahá’u’lláh also uses this image in later Writings:
He must purge his breast, which is the sanctuary of the
abiding love of the Beloved, of every defilement, and
sanctify his soul from all that pertaineth to water and
clay (áb-u-gil), from all shadowy and ephemeral
attachments. (KI192; KMI149)
Ye are even as the bird which soareth, with the full force
of its mighty wings and with complete and joyous
confidence, through the immensity of the heavens, until,
impelled to satisfy its hunger, it turneth longingly to the
water and clay (áb-u-gil) of the earth below it, and,
having been entrapped in the mesh of its desire, findeth
itself impotent to resume its flight to the realms whence
it came. (Law˙-i-A˙mad bi-Fársí 327, para.6; Muntakhabátí 210)
I fear lest, bereft of the melody of the dove of heaven,
ye will sink back to the shades of utter loss, and, never
having gazed upon the beauty of the rose, return to
water and clay (áb-u gil). (HW, Persian, no.13; Ad‘íyyih 428)
Elsewhere Bahá’u’lláh uses the Arabic word má’, water, in
the place of the Persian áb, and the word turáb, “ground, earth,
dust” (Steingass 291), in the place of gil:
Magnified be Thy name, O Lord my God! I know not
what the water (má’) is with which Thou hast created

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
me, or what the fire (nár) Thou hast kindled within me,
or the clay (turáb) wherewith Thou hast kneaded me.
(PM12, sec.9, para.1, Munáját 12)
This distich seemingly explains that the bestowal of Spirit
(Fire) introduces love into the nature of man (his water and
clay), and his heart. In this regard, it seems that spirit is the
same as love. In this vein, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “love is the cause
of the existence of all phenomena” (PUP255) and also: “The
greatest power in the realm and range of human existence is
spirit—the divine breath which animates and pervades all
things” (PUP58). Love and spirit are described as two similar
powers, on which the whole existence has its foundations.
Indeed, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reportedly said:
the first principle of God, Love, is the creative
principle. Love is an outpour from God, and is pure
spirit. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, qtd. in Bahá’í Scriptures 300, no.609)
This distich seemingly says that love permeates both the
water and clay of man, and his heart. The locution “water and
clay” seems an image denoting human flesh, the element
whereby man is a weak creature. As to the heart, in the Sufi
world, the heart is, first, the organ of the inner knowledge of
transcendent reality that Sufis call ma‘rifa. Second, it is the seat
of the divine presence. And, third, it is the organ that is
attracted towards what is other than it (see Savi, 51-3). Therefore
this distich could denote that through the bestowals of Spirit
love takes possession of man as a whole. This distich is
reminiscent of a ghazal by Óafi.z that says:
(O true beloved!) in eternity without beginning (the day of
mißáḳ),16 of glory, the splendour-ray of Thy beauty
boasted.
Revealed became love; and, upon all the world, fire dashed.

A Hymn to Love
(O absolute existence!) Thy face displayed splendour; (and)
beheld (that) the angel had no (capacity for) love:
From this (exceeding) jealousy, it became the essence of
fire; and upon Ādam dashed.
From that torch (of love), reason wished to kindle its lamp,
Jealousy’s lightning flashed; and in confusion, the world
dashed.
The adversary (Shai†án)17 sought to come to the spectacle-
place of the mystery (of love):
The invisible hand (of God) came, and, at the heart of the
excluded one (Shai†án), dashed.
Others, all on ease, dashed the dice of partition (fate):
Our grief-experienced heart it was that also, on grief (the
dice of fate) cast.
The desire of thy chin’s dimple (thy mysteries) possessed the
lofty soul:
At the ring of that tress, curt with curl, (his) hand, he
dashed.
The joy-book of love for Thee, Óáfi.z wrote on that day,
When, on the head of the chattels of his joyous heart, the
reed (of cancellation), he dashed. (Díván 354-55,
“Ghazalyát,” no.186; Divan 158-9, no.152)
Ay ‘Ishq, chih í Tú, kaz Tú jahán pur áshúb,
Ham az Tú dar ámad ˙asrat18 dar ˙ikmat-i-Luqmání.
Who art Thou, O Love, that ‘cause of Thee the world,
Is in turmoil and Luqman’s wisdom is envious?

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The world of love is the world of paradoxes. No wonder that
love throws the word into turmoil, áshúb, “Terror, dread, fear;
grief, affliction, misfortune; confusion, discord, disturbance,
tumult, riot, sedition” (Steingass 67). Bahá’u’lláh writes in the
Seven Valleys:
Love setteth a world aflame at every turn, and he
wasteth every land where he carrieth his banner. Being
hath no existence in his kingdom; the wise wield no
command within his realm. The leviathan of love
swalloweth the master of reason and destroyeth the lord
of knowledge. He drinketh the seven seas, but his heart’s
thirst is still unquenched, and he saith, “Is there yet any
more?” He shunneth himself and draweth away from all
on earth. (SV10)
In the world of love many things turn upside down. It is this
reversal that arises the feeling of wonderment in the lovers.
Bahá’u’lláh says about wonderment: “How many a mystic tree
hath this whirlwind of wonderment (˙ayrat) snatched by the
roots, how many a soul hath it exhausted” (SV31; Haft Vádí 124).
As to turmoil, one remembers at this point the tumultuous
events, whose protagonist or spectator Bahá’u’lláh had just
been: the Conference of Badasht in June 1848, the Mázindarán
upheaval, with the battle of the Fort of Shaykh ˇabarsí, that
began in late summer of 1848 and ended in the spring of 1849,
the slaughter of the Sevens Martyrs of Teheran in February
1850, the upheaval of Nayríz, in the late spring of 1850, the
massacre that followed the attempt on the life of the Shah on
15 August 1852 . . . Iran had really been in turmoil.
And yet the folly of love conceals a great wisdom, a wisdom
for which even Luqman, the legendary sage mentioned in the
Koran (31:11-8), that in post-Koranic literature is described as a
fabulist, a Muslim Aesop (see Savi 202-3), becomes full of envy.
The folly of love is the wisdom of the person that has become
detached from the water and clay of the world and has placed

A Hymn to Love
all his affections on the eternal world, wherefrom his soul
comes and whereto she is returning. While so doing, this person
gives a meaning to each instant of her life, that she does not
live in the superficiality of its contingent and ephemeral
meanings, but in the inner depth of the Absolute that transpires
thereof. All this, as poetical and mystic as it is, is taught by
Bahá’u’lláh in an extremely rational and practical way. This
transparency of absolute appears in the actions of a human
beings, whenever he is prompted by the sincere intention of
serving humankind to promote its ever-advancing civilization.
Gáh kuní da‘ví kih Man-am jilviy-i-Ma˙búb bi ‘álam.
Gáh gúy kih Man-am khúd án ˇal‘at-i-Sub˙ání.
Now Thou boastest: “I am the Beloved’s splendour in the
world.”
Now Thou proclaimest: “I’m Myself that Divine
Countenance.”
In this verse begins a description of Love, in its various
aspects, each of which conveys a mystical meaning.
Love is “the Beloved’s splendour in the world (jilviy-i-
Ma˙búb bi ‘álam).” This sentence is reminiscent of words
written and uttered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Know thou of a certainty that Love is the secret of
God’s holy Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-
Merciful, the fountain of spiritual outpourings. Love is
heaven’s kindly light, the Holy Spirit’s eternal breath
that vivifieth the human soul. Love is the cause of God’s
revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, in
accordance with the divine creation, in the realities of
things. (SWAB27, sec.12)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Know thou, the first bounty from the True One is love,
unity and harmony, and without these all the deeds pass
in vain and give no result. Love is the result of the
Manifestation and the glorious purpose of the rising of
Light on the Mount, in the Sinai of the Forgiving Lord.
(TAB1:183-4)
Love is the first effulgence of Divinity . . . (PUP338)
Love is, in reality, the first effulgence of Divinity and
the greatest splendor of God. (PUP397)
Love is the breath of the Holy Spirit in the heart of
Man. (PT20, sec.6, para.12)
Love is the “Divine Countenance (ˇal‘at-i-Sub˙ání).”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes about the word “face:”
The word “face” (vajh) hath many meanings, among
which there is submissiveness to the Will of God (ri∂á),
as God, exalted be He, says: “Seeking His Face” [Koran
6:52], and also: “We feed you for the sake of God alone”
[Koran 76:9], and moreover His good-pleasure (ri∂á). And
the face also means the Essence (dhát). God, exalted be
He, says: “Everything . . . will perish except His own
Face” [Koran 28:88]. And the face (vajh) also means the
unveiling
(jilwat).
God,
exalted
be
He,
says:
“whithersoever ye turn, there is the Presence of God”
[Koran
2:115]. And the face (vajh) hath various
interpretations and allusions, beside what hath been
said. However, due to lack of time, it hath been chosen
not to expatiate on the subject. On the basis of all this,
submission (taslím) of the face [of the believer] is one
of the special virtues of the righteous and of the
greatest gifts of the free. Whosoever is so aided is
graciously favored with absolute faith in the highest
level of certitude and assurance. (Makátíb 1:396)19

A Hymn to Love
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has repeatedly stated that “God is Love”
(PUP158), and has explained that “Christ has said God is Love”
(PT192, sec.58, para.2), possibly referring to the following verses:
He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. (1
John 4:8, KJV)
God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in
God, and God in him. (1 John 4:16, KJV)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has also hinted at this concept in various other
contexts. He is quoted as stating:
God is Love and Peace. God it Truth. God is
Omniscience. God is without beginning and without
end. God is uncreated and uncreating, yet the Source,
the Causeless Cause. God is pure Essence, and cannot be
said to be anywhere or in any place. (qtd. in Bahá’í
Scriptures 300, no.609)
God is love; God seeketh fellowship, purity, sanctity and
long-suffering; these are the attributes of Divinity.
(PUP290)
For God is love, and all phenomena find source and
emanation in that divine current of creation. The love
of God haloes all created things. Were it not for the
love of God, no animate being would exist. (PUP315)
Chún az Tú vazad bar ján rá’i˙iy-i-Jánán,
Bar har chih kuní da‘ví gúyad20 kih bih az ání.
Since Thou breathest the Beloved’s fragrance upon the soul,
Whatever claim Thou advancest, one might say Thou art
much greater.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Love sheds “the Beloved’s fragrance upon the soul (bar ján
rá’i˙iy-i-Jánán).” The image of perfume is widely used in Sufi
literature. We remember here that the fragrance of the Beloved
is a symbol of His bounties. Love brings the bounties of the
Beloved. Whatever bounty He bestows, it is but a reflection of
the Beauty of God. In this vein Bahá’u’lláh writes:
O My Well-Beloved! Thou hast breathed Thy Breath into
Me, and divorced Me from Mine own Self. Thou didst,
subsequently, decree that no more than a faint reflection,
a mere emblem of Thy Reality within Me be left among
the perverse and envious. (GWB89, sec. XL, para.1)
These sanctified Mirrors, these Day-springs of ancient
glory are one and all the Exponents on earth of Him
Who is the central Orb of the universe, its Essence and
ultimate Purpose. From Him proceed their knowledge
and power; from Him is derived their sovereignty. The
beauty of their countenance is but a reflection of His
image, and their revelation a sign of His deathless glory.
(KI99-100, para.106)
The Manifestation of God, the apex of the spiritual
hierarchy in the world, is Himself but a reflection of the Beauty
of God. And yet, the Manifestation of God is “the Supreme
Goal (maqßad-aqßá) and Most Sublime Summit (dhurviy-i-‘ulyá)”
(ESW147; Law˙-i Mubárak-i-kha†áb 96), “the world’s Ultimate Desire
(gháyat-i-qußvá), the Summit (dhurviy-i-‘ulyá) and Day Spring
of Glory (ufuq-i-a‘lá)” (GWB345, sec. CLXIV, para.7; Muntakhabátí
221).
Ham Mú’nis-i-jání, ham Áyiy21-i-Jánání,
Ham jam‘íyat-i-ján-há az Tú,22 ham az Tú paríshání.
Thou art the Companion of the soul, the Sign of the
Beloved,

A Hymn to Love
From Thee tranquillity of spirit cometh, from Thee
distress.
Love is “the Companion (mú’nis) of the soul.” Mú’nis means
“A companion, intimate friend; a solacer, comforter” (Steingass
1349). Bahá’u’lláh turns to God using this Name in many
prayers, as for example:
I implore Thee, O Thou Who art the beloved
Companion (mú’nis) of Bahá . . . (PM15, sec.13, para.2;
Munáját 16)
I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art my Companion
(mú’nisí) in my lowliness . . . (PM16, sec.14, par. 2; Munáját
16)
Let Thine everlasting melodies breathe tranquillity on
me, O my Companion (mú’nisí) . . . (PM248, sec.155, para.1;
Munáját 167)
Love is “the Sign of the Beloved (Áyiy-i-Jánání).” Áyih means
“A mark, a sign; a miracle; a verse of the Qur’án; (met.) an
accomplished master” (Steingass 128). Bahá’u’lláh writes in His
Law˙-i-Hadí:
From the exalted source, and out of the essence of His
favor and bounty He hath entrusted every created thing
with a sign (áyih) of His knowledge (‘irfán), so that none
of His creatures may be deprived of its share in
expressing, each according to its capacity and rank, this
knowledge. This sign (áyih) is the mirror of His beauty
in the world of creation. The greater the effort exerted
for the refinement of this sublime and noble mirror, the
more faithfully will it be made to reflect the glory of the
names and attributes of God, and reveal the wonders of
His signs and knowledge. Every created thing will be
enabled (so great is this reflecting power) to reveal the
potentialities of its pre-ordained station, will recognize

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
its capacity and limitations, and will testify to the truth
that “He, verily, is God; there is none other God besides
Him.” . . . (262, para.2; Muntakhabátí 168)
And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
. . . all the divine Manifestations suffered, offered their
lives and blood, sacrificed their existence, comfort and
all they possessed for the sake of mankind. Therefore
consider how much they love. Were it not for their love
for
humanity,
spiritual
love
would
be
mere
nomenclature. Were it not for their illumination, human
souls would not be radiant. How effective is their love!
This is a sign of the love of God; a ray of the Sun of
Reality. (PUP257)
Love brings tranquillity and distress. It is another of the
many paradoxes characterizing the condition of love. A lover
achieves tranquillity because he discovered “the Beloved (al-
Ma˙búb) of his heart, and the Object of his desire (al-
Madhkúr)” (PM108, sec.66, para.9; Munáját 78). However, his heart
also is distressed, because the lover is aware of his ideal
remoteness from the Beloved, and of his meanness, and also
because he longs for spiritual growth and self-sacrifice. As
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Though my body be pained by the trials that befall me
from Thee, though it be afflicted by the revelations of
Thy Decree, yet my soul rejoiceth at having partaken of
the waters of Thy Beauty, and at having attained the
shores of the ocean of Thine eternity. Doth it beseem a
lover 23  to flee from his beloved (al-ma˙búb), or to
desert the object of his heart’s desire (ma‘ashúq)? Nay,
we all believe in Thee, and eagerly hope to enter Thy
presence. (PM96, sec.60, para.3; Munáját 70)

A Hymn to Love
Gar partawí az Rúy-at dar Mißr-i-Ilahí24 árand,
Bíní bi-kharídárí ßad Yúsuf-i-Kan‘ání.
If a ray from Thy Face shineth on the Divine realms,25
Thou wilt see a hundred Cananaean Josephs put up for
sale.
This distich refers to the story of Joseph, son of Jacob, sold
as a slave by his brothers and, after many vicissitudes, become
viceroy of Egypt. Here the Face of the Beloved matches the
beauteous Joseph. Whenever a ray of the face of the Beloved
shines in the realm of love, it is as if a hundred Josephs were
put up for sale.
Ham búy-i-qamíß az Tú, ham Rú˙-i-Masí˙ az Tú,
Ham Musíy-i-bay∂á’í, ham shu‘liy-i-Fárání.
From Thee Joseph’s fragrance26 bloweth; from Thee the
Messianic Spirit;
Thou art the white-handed Moses, Thou, the flame on
Mount Paran.
Love is successively identified with Joseph, described
through the image of the scent of his garment (qamíß); with
Jesus, described through two among His attributes known in
the Moslem world, Spirit and His Messianic Station; and
Moses, described through the image of His white hand and of
the Burning Bush. In later Writings Bahá’u’lláh identified
Himself with all these three Personages. As to Joseph,
Bahá’u’lláh describes Him as a “Prophet (nabí)” together with
“Jesus, Moses . . . and Mu˙ammad” (KI254, para.282; KMI197), and
writes about Him:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Dust fill your mouths, and ashes blind your eyes, for
having bartered away the Divine Joseph for the most
paltry of prices. (GWB208, sec. CIII, para.4)
As to Moses, He writes in His Súriy-i-Damm:
Praise be to Thee, O Lord My God, for the wondrous
revelations of Thy inscrutable decree and the manifold
woes and trials Thou hast destined for Myself. At one
time Thou didst deliver Me into the hands of Nimrod
[Abraham]; at another Thou hast allowed Pharaoh’s rod
to persecute Me [Moses] . . . (88, para.1, added terms in
brackets)
As to Jesus, He writes:
Again I was crucified for having unveiled to men’s eyes
the hidden gems of Thy glorious unity, for having
revealed to them the wondrous signs of Thy sovereign
and everlasting power [Jesus]. (Súriy-i-Damm 88, para.1,
added terms in brackets)
O Jews! If ye be intent on crucifying once again Jesus,
the Spirit of God, put Me to death, for He hath once
more, in My person, been made manifest unto you.
(GWB101, sec. XLVII, para.1)
This distich seems to foreshadow the concept of the
“essential unity” of the Messengers of God later on explained in
greater details:
These Manifestations of God have each a twofold
station. One is the station of pure abstraction and
essential unity. In this respect, if thou callest them all by
one name, and dost ascribe to them the same attribute,
thou hast not erred from the truth. Even as He hath
revealed: “No distinction do We make between any of
His Messengers!” For they one and all summon the

A Hymn to Love
people of the earth to acknowledge the Unity of God,
and herald unto them the Kawthar of an infinite grace
and bounty. They are all invested with the robe of
Prophethood, and honoured with the mantle of glory.
Thus hath Mu˙ammad, the Point of the Qur’án,
revealed: “I am all the Prophets.” Likewise, He saith: “I
am the first Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus.” Similar
statements have been made by ‘Alí. Sayings such as this,
which indicate the essential unity of those Exponents of
Oneness, have also emanated from the Channels of
God’s immortal utterance, and the Treasuries of the
gems of divine knowledge, and have been recorded in
the scriptures. These Countenances are the recipients of
the Divine Command, and the day-springs of His
Revelation. This Revelation is exalted above the veils of
plurality and the exigencies of number. Thus He saith:
“Our Cause is but one.” Inasmuch as the Cause is one
and the same, the Exponents thereof also must needs be
one and the same. (KI152-3, para.161)
Sar-há bi-kamand-at bastih, dil-há az27 gham-at khastih,
Ham ‘ámíy-i-shaydá’í, ham ‘álim-i-Rabbání.
Bound are the heads by Thy locks, pierced the hearts
by Thine anguish, be they of insane laymen or of Divine
sages.
The first hemistich presents the image of the hair of the
Beloved—kamand, “A halter, noose, snare, lasso; slip-knot; a
scaling-ladder . . . a lock of hair” (Steingass 1051)—that tie the
lovers. Bausani writes that “the most common mystical
explanation” of the hair of the Beloved is that it “symbolizes
the ‘plurality of the phenomenal world that veils the face of
God’s unity’” (Religion in Iran 280-1). It also presents the image of
the anguish of the lovers—gham, “Being cloudy (day); being

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
intensely hot and suffocating; making sad; muzzling; covering;
grief, sadness, anxiety, trouble, care; a source of regret;
remorse; mourning, lamentation; loss” (Steingass 894). The second
hemistich describes the universal effects of the love for the
Beloved on all lovers, “Be they of insane laymen (‘ámíy-i-
shaydá’í) or of Divine sages (‘álim-i-Rabbání).” ‘Ámí means
“Blind, ignorant” (Steingass 868); shaydá’, “mad, insane, in love”
(Steingass 772); ‘álim, “Learned, intelligent, wise” (Steingass 831);
and rabbání, “Divine, godly” (Steingass 567). The two categories
of seekers mentioned in this verse could be the same as the
“men of mind (mu†áli‘ín) and heart (mushtáqín)” of the Four
Valleys (FV63; Chihár Vádí 154). It is the ancient division between
those who preferred the path of sobriety of ascesis and those
who preferred the inebriation of the way of love.
Man khúd zi Tú-am makhmúr, ham az Tú shudam mashhúr,
Kih28 dahí-am ßad ján, ham29 kih kuní-am qurbání.
I’m drunk of Thee, ‘cause of Thee I’m notorious, whether
Thou offerest me a hundred lives, or Thou slayest me.
The lover proclaims his love for the Beloved. This love made
him commit such foolish acts that now everyone talks about
him and he has become mashhúr, that is, “public, notorious,
well-known; published, divulged, conspicuous; celebrated,
illustrious, noted, famous” (Steingass 1250). This is another trope
of Sufi poetry, belonging to the malámatí strand. Marcello
Perego, an Italian expert on Sufism, defines the malámatí Sufis
as “persons who observe a perfect religious conduct, but
carefully hide any ecstatic state (A˙wál) and grace (Wáridát)
which the One Being bestows upon them; they dissemble their
good deeds, so that none but God may know them” (151). A
number of Sufis of the malámatiyya tried to appear
blameworthy in the eyes of common people. The second

A Hymn to Love
hemistich restates the concept of the faithfulness of the lover,
independently of the attitude of the Beloved.
Gar Qábi∂-i-arvá˙í, az chih kuní-am zindih?
Var Mu˙iy-i-abdání, az chih kuní thu‘bání.
If Thou art the Angel of death, how come that Thou revivest
me?
And if Thou art the Reviver of bodies, how is it that Thou
actest as a snake?
This distich presents another oxymoron. So cruel is the
Beloved that the lover compares Him to the Angel of death,
Qábi∂-i-arvá˙í, literally the sequestrator of spirits. And yet
from Him life comes. And if He gives life, why does He act as
cruelly as a thu‘bání, that is, “A large male serpent, a dragon,
cockatrice, basilisk” (Steingass 345)? It seems the human reaction
of a person when faced by the “onrushing winds of . . . [God’s]
decree (qa∂á)” (PM12, sec.9, para.2. Munáját 13). Bahá’u’lláh wrote
in His Súriy-i-Haykal:
Should We choose, at one time, to shed the radiance of
Our loving providence upon the mirrors of all things,
and, at another, to withhold from them the splendours
of Our light, this verily lieth within Our power, and
none hath the right to ask “why” or “wherefore.” For
We are potent indeed to achieve Our purpose, and
render no account for that which We bring to pass. (35,
para.68)
And yet many “whys” and “wherefores” are voiced in the
Tablet which Western Bahá’ís know as the “Fire Tablet,” which
expresses concepts similar to those conveyed by this distich:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Indeed the hearts of the sincere are consumed in the fire
of separation: Where is the gleaming of the light of Thy
Countenance, O Beloved of the worlds?
Those who are near unto Thee have been abandoned in
the darkness of desolation: Where is the shining of the
morn of Thy reunion, O Desire of the worlds?
The bodies of Thy chosen ones lie quivering on distant
sands: Where is the ocean of Thy presence, O Enchanter
of the worlds?
Longing hands are uplifted to the heaven of Thy grace
and generosity: Where are the rains of Thy bestowal, O
Answerer of the worlds?
The infidels have arisen in tyranny on every hand: Where
is the compelling power of Thine ordaining pen, O
Conqueror of the worlds?
The barking of dogs is loud on every side: Where is the
lion of the forest of Thy might, O Chastiser of the
worlds? (212-4)
These words are reminiscent, to Christian ears, of the words
uttered by Jesus on the cross a few moments before dying after
many hours of agony:
Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my
God, why hast thou forsaken me? (Matthew 27:46, KJV)
Dar khar-gáh-i-sul†án yik bár agar bi-kharámí,
Sul†án kuní-ash bandih, ham bandih kuní sul†ání.
If Thou graciously movest in the court of a king, Thou
changest

A Hymn to Love
The king into a servant and the servant into a king.
The gracious pace of the Beloved is a Sufi motif of Persian
mystical poetry. Óáfi.z writes in this vein:
If, like the (lofty) cypress (sarv), a moment thou move in a
rose-garden (gulzár)
In envy of thy face (rúy), every rose (gul) suffereth a
thorn. (Díván 901, “Ghazalyát,” no.552, v.1; Divan 456,
“Ghazalyát,” no.443, v.1)
This distich by Bahá’u’lláh exalts the power of the Beloved,
Who can change a king into His humble vassal and bestow royal
greatness upon a servant. As to the capacity to subdue a
sovereign, Bahá’u’lláh writes about Muhammad in the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán: “Behold, how many are the Sovereigns who bow the knee
before His name!” (KI110, para.117). And the Báb reportedly said
to His disciples:
Heed not your weaknesses and frailty; fix your gaze
upon the invincible power of the Lord, your God, the
Almighty. Has He not, in past days, caused Abraham, in
spite of His seeming helplessness, to triumph over the
forces of Nimrod? Has He not enabled Moses, whose
staff was His only companion, to vanquish Pharaoh and
his hosts? Has He not established the ascendancy of
Jesus, poor and lowly as He was in the eyes of men, over
the combined forces of the Jewish people? Has He not
subjected the barbarous and militant tribes of Arabia to
the holy and transforming discipline of Muhammad, His
Prophet? (qtd. in Nabíl 94)
As to the capacity to change a servant into a king, the Báb
reportedly said to His disciples:
You are the lowly, of whom God has thus spoken in His
Book: “And We desire to show favour to those who
were brought low in the land, and to make them

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
spiritual leaders among men, and to make them Our
heirs.” You have been called to this station; you will
attain to it, only if you arise to trample beneath your
feet every earthly desire, and endeavour to become those
“honoured servants of His who speak not till He hath
spoken, and who do His bidding.” (qtd. ibid. 93)
And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote about Jesus:
Peter was a fisherman and Mary Magdalene a peasant,
but as they were specially favoured with the blessings of
Christ, the horizon of their faith became illumined, and
down to the present day they are shining from the
horizon of everlasting glory. (SWAB105, sec.68)
Yik shu‘lih30 zi31 rúy-at dar gul-bun-i-Ján ámad,
Afrúkht jamál-i-ján chún láliy-i-nu‘mání.
A spark of Thy face fell upon the rose-bush of the soul,
And lit its beauty as a crimson tulip.
This distich uses many images typical of Persian mystical
literature: the “spark (shu‘lih)” of the face (rúy), “the rose-bush
of the soul (gul-bun-i-Ján),” the “crimson tulip (láliy-i-
nu‘mání).” The image of the face has been explained above (see
above verse 7). This verse seems to use the image of the Face of
the Beloved to hint at the Beauty of the Beloved, at His
influence on the lover and at the unveiling of His Beauty. As to
the rose (gul), in the Sufi world it “is the supreme manifestation
of Divine beauty or the symbol of the beloved cheek” (Schimmel,
Deciphering 26). As to the tulip (lálih), “poets have tended to
compare the red tulip that looks indeed like a flame to the fire
on the sacred mountain [Sinai]” (ibid. 10). Óáfi.z uses the image
of the tulip in the following verse:

A Hymn to Love
In the garden (bágh) (of the existence), renew the usage’s of
the faith (dín) of Zardusht.
Now that the (red) tulip (lálih) hath kindled the fire (átash)
of Nimrod. (Díván 253, “Ghazalyát,” no.121, v.8; Divan 229,
“Ghazalyát,” no.219, v.8)
Óáfi.z associates the tulip to the fire of Nimrod, because
God has transformed the fire of the furnace, into which
Abraham had been thrown, into a garden. Likewise, Bahá’u’lláh
associates the tulip to the fire lit by the Beloved in the spiritual
worlds, a fire that is as sweet as a garden for the lovers. The
tulip described by Bahá’u’lláh is crimson (nu‘mání). In the
Muslim world
red is connected with life, health, and blood; it is the
colour of the bridal veil that seems to guarantee
fertility; and it is used as an apotropaic colour. Red
wine, as well as fire (in its positive aspects) and the red
rose, all point to the Divine Glory, as it is said that the
ridá al-kibriyá, “the cloak of Divine Glory,” is radiant
red. (Deciphering 16)
This distich seems to describe how the Beauty of the Beloved
(the spark of His face) changes the hearts of His lovers (“the
rose-bush of the soul”), where He raises the vermilion tulip of
knowledge and good deeds. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke diffusely of the
transforming power of the Manifestations of God. For example
He said:
The holy Manifestations of God come into the world to
dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of
man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that
his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened,
his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his
potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the
world of humanity latent within him may come to life.
These holy Manifestations of God are the Educators and

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Trainers of the world of existence, the Teachers of the
world of humanity. They liberate man from the darkness
of the world of nature, deliver him from despair, error,
ignorance, imperfections and all evil qualities. They
clothe him in the garment of perfections and exalted
virtues. Men are ignorant; the Manifestations of God
make
them
wise.
They
are
animalistic;
the
Manifestations make them human. They are savage and
cruel; the Manifestations lead them into kingdoms of
light and love. They are unjust; the Manifestations cause
them to become just. Man is selfish; They sever him
from self and desire. Man is haughty; They make him
meek, humble and friendly. He is earthly; They make him
heavenly.
Men
are
material;
the
Manifestations
transform them into divine semblance. They are
immature children; the Manifestations develop them
into maturity. Man is poor; They endow him with
wealth. Man is base, treacherous and mean; the
Manifestations of God uplift him into dignity, nobility
and loftiness. (PUP 465-6)
Vah vah, chih nasím ámad, bá muzhdiy-i-ján ámad,32
Kaz Mashriq-i-Ján ámad án ˇal‘at-i-Yazdání.
O! What a breeze wafted announcing to the soul the glad
tiding
That from the East of the Spirit that Divine Face hath
appeared.
This distich poetically announces the new Revelation. This
announcement is brought by the breeze, a reminiscence of the
morning breeze that, according to the tradition, brought to
Muhammad the scent of the holiness of Uways al-Qaraní who
lived in Yemen. This breeze comes from the East, the place
whence the sun rises. Rúmí writes:

A Hymn to Love
Finally from the Orient of the spirit (mashriq-i-ján), like the
sun, arose
He Whom the soul (ján) was searching in private and in
public (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.142, v.2)
These verses are reminiscent of the following words written
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
From the beginning of time until the present day the
light of Divine Revelation hath risen in the East and
shed its radiance upon the West. The illumination thus
shed
hath,
however,
acquired
in
the
West
an
extraordinary brilliancy. Consider the Faith proclaimed
by Jesus. Though it first appeared in the East, yet not
until its light had been shed upon the West did the full
measure of its potentialities become manifest . . . In the
books of the Prophets certain glad-tidings are recorded
which are absolutely true and free from doubt. The East
hath ever been the dawning-place of the Sun of Truth.
In the East all the Prophets of God have appeared . . .
The West hath acquired illumination from the East but
in some respects the reflection of the light hath been
greater in the Occident. This is specially true of
Christianity. Jesus Christ appeared in Palestine and His
teachings were founded in that country. Although the
doors of the Kingdom were first opened in that land and
the bestowals of God were spread broadcast from its
center, the people of the West have embraced and
promulgated Christianity more fully than the people of
the East. (qtd. in WOB 74-5)33
The good news is that the Face of God has appeared.
Ján-há bi-paríd az shawq, dil-há bi-ramíd az dhawq,
Ham ‘Ishq shud-ash ‘áshiq ham jawhar-i-imkání.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Souls soared with yearning, hearts were enraptured in
ecstasy,
Love fell in love with Him, and so did the essence of
creation.
This distich describes the impact of the advent of the new
Revelation. The whole creation falls in love with the Beloved,
even Love. Outwardly, when the Manifestation of God appears
in the world, nothing happens. On the contrary, an inward
process starts that slowly but steadily moves towards the birth
of a new civilization. Bahá’u’lláh has often described His Own
advent in triumphant words. He wrote for example in His
Law˙-i-Ri∂ván:
This is the Day whereon the unseen world crieth out:
“Great is thy blessedness, O earth, for thou hast been
made the foot-stool of thy God, and been chosen as the
seat of His mighty throne.” The realm of glory
exclaimeth: “Would that my life could be sacrificed for
thee, for He Who is the Beloved of the All-Merciful
hath established His sovereignty upon thee, through the
power of His Name that hath been promised unto all
things, whether of the past or of the future.” This is the
Day whereon every sweet smelling thing hath derived its
fragrance from the smell of My garment—a garment that
hath shed its perfume upon the whole of creation. This
is the Day whereon the rushing waters of everlasting life
have gushed out of the Will of the All-Merciful. Haste
ye, with your hearts and souls, and quaff your fill, O
Concourse of the realms above! (29, para.6)
Another example are the words whereby He foresees His
arrival to the prison of ‘Akká:
Upon Our arrival, We were welcomed with banners of
light, whereupon the Voice of the Spirit cried out

A Hymn to Love
saying: “Soon will all that dwell on earth be enlisted
under these banners.” (qtd. in GPB 184, sec.11, para.4)
In the dimensions of the human world His arrival in ‘Akká is
described by Shoghi Effendi as follows:
Having, after a miserable voyage, disembarked at ‘Akká,
all the exiles, men, women and children, were, under the
eyes of a curious and callous population that had
assembled at the port to behold the “God of the
Persians,” conducted to the army barracks, where they
were locked in, and sentinels detailed to guard them.
“The first night,” Bahá’u’lláh testifies in the Law˙-i-
Ra’ís,34 “all were deprived of either food or drink . . .
They even begged for water, and were refused.” So
filthy and brackish was the water in the pool of the
courtyard that no one could drink it. Three loaves of
black and salty bread were assigned to each, which they
were later permitted to exchange, when escorted by
guards to the market, for two of better quality. (GPB 186-
7, sec.11, para.10)
Evidently in the spiritual words, which are not subject to the
rules of time and space, things appear in a different perspective
than in the earthly world.
Az ˙ikmat-i-ú ulfat-i-má-bayin-i-dú ∂idd .záhir,
Ham ‘Ishq shudih bandih, ham ‘Aql kunad darbání.
Through His wisdom, the coincidence of opposites is made
manifest,
Now love becometh a slave, now the Intellect a porter.
In the Manifestation of God the opposites coincide.
Bahá’u’lláh wrote in later Writings: “I bear witness that in His

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
person solidity and fluidity have been joined and combined”
(PM48, sec.38, para.3). Bahá’u’lláh explained moreover:
These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the
recipients and revealers of all the unchangeable
attributes and names of God. They are the mirrors that
truly and faithfully reflect the light of God. Whatsoever
is applicable to them is in reality applicable to God,
Himself, Who is both the Visible and the Invisible
(.záhir-i-mastúr) . . . Through the manifold attributes of
these Essences of Detachment, Who are both the first and
the last, the seen and the hidden, it is made evident that
He Who is the Sun of Truth is “the First and the Last,
the Seen, and the Hidden [Koran 57:3].” (KI142-3; KMI110)
An aspect of this coincidence is the harmonious balance
between elements that human beings often see as conflicting
with one another, as for example mercy and justice, love and
reason, religion and science. This distich explains that, on the
one hand, love becomes a slave, possibly of the “divine,
universal mind, whose sovereignty enlighteneth all created
things” (Four Valleys 52), and, on the other, the Intellect becomes
a porter, that is, it submits to Revelation. Rúmí writes in this
vein:
O perfect full moon (máh), the house of the heart belongs to
Thee,
Intellect that was a lord is wholly submitted to Thee.
(Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.2243, v.2)
Darvísh, ma-dar zín bísh ín pardiy-i-asrár,
Kaz shahr faghán khízad vaz ‘álam-i-˙ayvání.
Stop tearing asunder the veil of mystery, O Dervish:
A cry riseth from the city of men and the world of brutes.

A Hymn to Love
This poem, as a few others, ends with a call to silence. The
clamour that rises “from the city of men and the world of
brutes” could be due to the fact that the city of men is not
prepared to receive the Beloved. This verse is reminiscent of the
following words by Bahá’u’lláh in His Ri∂vánu’l-‘Adl:
The fears and agitation which the revelation of this law
provokes in men’s hearts should indeed be likened to the
cries of the suckling babe weaned from his mother’s
milk, if ye be of them that perceive. (175, para.1)
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1. Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, Iran, n.d.
Bahá’í Scriptures. Selections from the Utterances of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Edited by Horace Holley. Approved by Bahá’í
Committee on Publications, 1923. 2nd ed. New York: Brentano’s
Publisher’s, 1928.
Baha’i Studies Review. Bahá’í Studies Review. Association for
Bahá’í Studies for English-speaking Europe. London, 1991.
Bahá’u’lláh. Ad‘íyyiy-i-Óa∂rat-i-Ma˙búb [Prayers of Bahá’u’lláh].
Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt, Bahá’í Year 76.
Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
———. Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
129 B.E.(1972–73).
———. Chihár Vádí, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá 3:140-57.
———. Fire Tablet, in Bahá’í Prayers 214-20.
———. Haft Vádí, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá 3:92-137.
———. Ishráqát (Splendours), in Tablets 101-35.
———. Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1992. Arabic edition: Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1995.
———. Kitáb-i-Musta†áb-i-ˆqán. Reprinted from the original edition,
Egypt, 1934. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
———. Law˙-i-A˙mad bih Fársí (Persian Tablet to A˙mad), in
Gleanings 322-29, sec. CLII and CLIII.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
———. Law˙-i-Anta’l-Káfí, in Nafahat-i Fa∂l 2:17-22.
———. Law˙-i-Dhabíh, in Gleanings 240-6, sec. CXV.
———. Law˙-i-Hadí, in Gleanings 164-66, sec. LXXXIII.
———. Law˙-i-Óikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets 137-52.
———. Lawh-i-Laylatu’l-Quds, in Gleanings 316, sec. CXLVII.
———. Law˙-i-Maqßúd (Tablet of Maqßúd), in Tablets, pp.161-78.
———. Law˙-i Mubárak-i-kha†áb bih Shaykh Mu˙ammad Taqí-yi
Mujtahid-i Ißfahání. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1982.
———. Law˙-i-Ri∂ván (Tablet of Ri∂ván), in Gleanings 27-35, sec. XIV.
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Áthár-i Qalam-i A‘lá [Collected Letters of
Baha’u’llah], vol. 30, Tehran: Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private
Printing (INBA) Private Printing, 1976; vol. 36, Teheran: Iran
National Baha’i Archives (INBA) Private Printing, 1977.
———. Munáját (Prayers and Meditations). Rio de Janeiro: Editora
Baha’i–Brazil, 1981.
———. Múntakhabátí az Áthár-i-Óa∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1984.
———. Nafahat-i-Fa∂l. Vol. 2. Dundas, Ont.: Persian Institute for
Bahá’í Studies, 1988. See http://reference.bahai.org/
fa/t/c/NF2/nf2-1.html (accessed 9 September 2011).
———. ‘Questions and Answers’, in Kitáb-i-Aqdas 103-37.
———. Ri∂vánu’l-‘Adl, in Gleanings 175, sec. LXXXVIII.
———. Súriy-i-Damm, in Gleanings 88-90, sec. XXXIX.
———. Súriy-i-Haykal (Sura of the Temple), in Summons 3-137.
———. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Best Known Works.” Bahá’í World. Vols. 9-20.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1980.
Bausani, Alessandro. “Ghazal. ii. In Persian literature,” in
Encyclopaedia of Islam.
———. “La letteratura neopersiana,” in Pagliaro and Bausani: La
letteratura Persiana 133-563.
———. Religion in Iran. Translated by J.M. Marchesi. New York:
Bibliotheca Persica Press, 2000.
Blachère, Régis. “Ghazal. i. The Ghazal in Arabic poetry,” in
Encyclopedia of Islam.

A Hymn to Love
Browne. Edward G. A Literary History of Persia. 4 vols. Bethesda,
Maryland: Iranbooks, 1997.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Fire and Light [Nár va Núr]. A compilation from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í Verlag, 1982.
Furúzánfar, Badí‘al-Zaman. A˙adíth va qißaß-i-Mathnaví: talfiqí az dú
kitáb ‘A˙adíthi-Mathnaví’ va ‘Má’khidh-i- qißaß va tamthílát-i-
Mathnaví. Edited by Hòusayn Dávúdí. 2nd edn. Teheran: Amír
Kabír, 1381 (2002). [AQM]
Óáfi.z, Shams ad-Dín. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H.
Wilberforce Clarke. Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997.
Available at http://www.archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/
thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt (accessed 19 August 2011).
———. The Divan of Hafiz. Teheran: Aban Book Publication, 1387
[2008-2009].
———. Díván-i-ash‘ár. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=poet
&id=1 (accessed 26 August 2011).
———. (Hâfiz). Il libro del coppiere. Edited by Carlo Saccone. Milan:
Luni Editrice, 1998.
Hillmann, Michael Craig. “Hâfez and the Persian Ghazal, and
Wilberforce Clarke’s Translations,” in Óáfi.z, Díván-i-Háfiz E-EE.
Ishráq Khávarí, ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd. Má’iday-i-Ásmání. A compilation of
Bahá’í Writings. 9 vols; vol. 4. Teheran: Mu’assisa Millí Ma†bu‘át
Amrí, 129 BE (1972).
Koran, The. Translated from the Arabic by John Meadows Rodwell.
Introduction by George Margoliouth. London: Everyman’s
Library, 1987.
Lambden, Stephen N. “Sinaitic Mysteries: Notes on Moses/Sinai
Motifs,” in Studies in Honour of the Late Hasan M Balyuzi, pp.
65-183.
Lane, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. London and
Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863–93. CD-Rom edition pub.
by Thesaurus Islamicus Foundation. Cairo: Tradigital, 2003.
Lewis, Franklin D. “Poetry as Revelation: Introduction to
Bahá’u’lláh’s ‘Mathnavíy-i Mubárak’,” in Baha’i Studies Review 9
(1999/2000):101-25.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
———. “A Short Poem by ‘Darvísh’ Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh, Saqí az
ghayb-i baqá burqa‘ bar afkan az idhár.” An Introduction and
Three Versions of Provisional English Translations’, in Lights of
‘Irfán 2:83-91.
Lights of ‘Irfán. Papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and
Seminars. Evanston, IL: Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund,
2000–. Wilmette, IL: ‘Irfán Colloquia, 2000–.
Mázandarání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il. Táríkh-i-¸uhúru’l-Óaqq
[History of the Manifestation of Truth], vol. 4. Digitally
republished, East Lansing, Michigan: H-Bahai, 1998. Available at
http://www.h-net.org/ bahai/arabic/vol2/tzh4/tzh4.htm
(accessed 19 August 2011).
Nabíl-i-A‘zam (Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandi). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated
by Shoghi Effendi. New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1932.
Pagliaro, Antonino e Alessandro Bausani. La letteratura persiana.
Florence: Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
Perego, Marcello. Le parole del sufismo: Dizionario della spiritualità
islamica. Milan: Mimesis, 1998.
RíRá. Kitábkhániy-i-Ázád-i-Fársí [RiRa]. The Free Persian Digital
Library, providing access to Persian literature in public domain or
explicitly authorized for public use. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/? (accessed 19 August 2011).
Rúmí, Jalálú’d-Dín. Díván-i-Shams. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=book
&id=51 (accessed 26 A 2011).
———. The Mathnawí of Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, edited from the oldest
manuscripts available: with critical notes, translation and
commentary by Reynold A. Nicholson, vols. 2, 4, 6. Warminster,
Wiltshire: Trustees of the E.J.W. Gibb Memorial Series, 1926.
———. Mathnavíy-i-Ma‘naví. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=book
&id=50 (accessed 26 August 2011).
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 2: Second Selection, Poems 201-400.
Translated from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Edited by Ehsan
Yarshater. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press,
1991.
Saccone, Carlo. “Sensi e soprasensi nei fragmenta di Hâfez, ovvero
introduzione a uno ‘stilnovista’ persiano,” in Il libro del Coppiere
14-66.

A Hymn to Love
Sa‘dí, Mußlih ad-Dín. Díván-i-ash‘ár. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=book
&id=41 (accessed 26 August 2011).
Savi, Julio. Towards the Summit of Reality. An introduction to
Bahá’u’lláh’s Seven Valleys and Four Valleys. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2008.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A
Phenomenological Approach to Islam. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press, 1994.
———. Mystical Dimensions of Islam. Chapel Hill: University of
North Carolina Press, 1975.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English
Dictionary Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met
with in Persian Literature. London and New York: Routledge,
1998.
Strong, James. ‘A Concise Dictionary of the Words in the Hebrew
Bible’, in The New Strong’s Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible.
———. The New Strong’s Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible.
Nashville: Thomas Nelson Publishers, 1990.
Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Edited by M.
Momen. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol.5. Los
Angeles: Kalimát, 1988.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, Oxford: George
Ronald, 1992.
Wilberforce-Clark, Henri. “Preface,” in Óáfi.z, The Díván-i-Háfiz v-
xliv.

NOTES
1 The poems are listed according to their growing length.
2 See also excerpts in Mázandarání 142-43.
3 See also Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 36:455; and excerpts in Mázandarání 141-42.
4 See Julio Savi, “The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call,” in Lights of
‘Irfán 15 (2014):311-54.
5 See GPB120, sec.7, para.35.
6 “Ghazal. ii. In Persian literature,” from now on in this section Bausani.
7 Majmú‘ih 30 omits this invocation.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

8 “Ahriman, the principle of Evil, opposed to Ormuzd, the principle of
Good; the devil; a seducer; a demon” (Steingass 124).
9 Surúsh means “An angel; Gabriel” (Steingass 680).
10 Referred to “a certain Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Óusayn, a crafty and obstinate
priest, whose consuming jealousy of Bahá’u’lláh was surpassed only by his
capacity to stir up mischief both among those of high degree and also
amongst the lowest of the low, Arab or Persian, who thronged the streets
and markets of Kazimayn, Karbilá and Baghdad” (GPB141, sec.8, para.30).
11 Majmú‘ih 30 writes jilvihí.
12 Majmú‘ih 30 writes az.
13 Majmú‘ih 30 omits shud.
14 See Aristotle, De Anima [On the soul], 3:4, 430-31.
15 Majmú‘ih 30 writes ‘ishq-u.
16 Mítháq means “A promise, agreement, bargain, compact, confederacy,
alliance, league” (Steingass 1359).
17 Shay†án means “Satan” (Steingass 776).
18 Majmú‘ih 30 writes ˙ayrat.
19 Personal provisional translation by the author with Ms. Faezeh Mardani,
added terms in brackets.
20 Majmú‘ih 30 writes gúyam.
21 Majmú‘ih 30 writes ayat.
22 Majmú‘ih 30 omits az-Tú.
23 The word “lover” translates both al-˙abíb and al-áshiq.
24 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Mißr-i-bahar, that is the city of springtime.
25 In Persian Mißr-i-Iláhí, “Divine Egypt.”
26 In Persian qamíß, literally, shirt.
27 Majmú‘ih 30 writes zi.
28 Majmú‘ih 30 writes gah.
29 Majmú‘ih 30 writes gah.
30 Majmú‘ih 30 writes shu‘lihí.
31 Majmú‘ih 30 writes az.
32 Majmú‘ih 30 writes ján-bakhsh, that is soul-refreshing.
33 See moreover GPB253-54; CF30; PT23, sec.8, para.3; PUP289.
34 A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh, revealed in the early ‘Akká period and addressed
to ‘Alí Páshá, the Grand Vizir of Turkey. See SLH159-73.

“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”
An early fruit of the Supreme Pen1
Julio Savi
At dawn the Friend came to my bed (Sa˙ar ámad)2
He is the Provider in all circumstances
At dawn the Friend came to my bed:
[1]
“O fool for love, O broken heart,
O thou, who pinest for Me wherever thou art,
And wherever thou art, liest in prison for Me,
Now an asp twisted at thy foot,
Now a rutilant chain at thy neck.
O thou, who didn’t spend a night on a bed of ease, O thou,
Who didn’t find a moment of relief from the woes of the
world.
The heart of the world was burnt by the fire of thy wails,
[5]
The eye of the universe was consumed by the fire of thine
afflictions.
Now is placed in fetters thy neck, as if thou werest a rebellious
Servant, now, bound in chains, thou art hurried to the
bazaar.
Now thou art wronged in the hands of the oppressor,
Now thou spendest days and nights in the prison of cruelty.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Thy pains set on fire the hearts of the friends,
Thy groans darkened the faces of the lovers.
Thine eyes shed rubies of blood, whereby
The eye of the twilight hath turned pomegranate red.
After so many toils thou met in My path,
[10]
Thou doest not cool down, nor bitterly regret.
Wherefore art thou restless tonight? Wherefore
Hath thy body become as thin as a thread?
In the night thou tossest and turnest on thy couch,
Thou tossest and groanest, as bitten by a snake.
Why doest thou turn and groan, now?
Why doeth thy face turn pale?”
I answered: “O Friend! O Healer of my soul!
How is it that Thou camest to this sick bed?
O Thou, by Whose Face the sun is enlightened in the sky,
[15]
O Thou, by Whose love the essence of peace is unsettled.
The sky hath filled its skirt with pearls,
That it may lay it down at the feet of Thy Majesty.
Doest Thou wonder about Thy lover’s plight?
Thou wilt discover its secrets in the pallor of his face.
My groans proclaim the secret of my heart;
My tearful eyes reveal the riddle of my soul.
In my love for Thee I received many an arrow
Of cruelty, I fell into infidel hands.
I was dragged through mountains and plains,
[20]
I was drawn in front of the wicked.
Should I tell what I saw in my love for Thee,

At Dawn The Friend Came
My tongue would grow weary of speaking.
I don’t complain, O Friend, for Thy pitiless sword
And I cherish my pains for Thee as my own heart.
I embrace Thy decree with heart and soul,
My spirit yearns after Thy tribulations.
My soul won’t cut the lace of Thy love,
Should it be beheaded with a deadly blade.
I tied my heart to the curl of Thy tresses,
[25]
That it may not be unloosed till the Judgement Day.
Should I be slaughtered a myriad times, with every
Moment, still I wouldn’t rebel against Thy love.
In the night season I burn in the fire of anguish,
‘Cause my head hasn’t been, O Friend, hung on the gallows.
I come with no veil before Thee to behold, O Almighty,
Thy Face beyond any mortal frame, O Unique One.
The Birds of Eternity returned to their nest,
We remained downtrodden and wretched on earth.
The time hath come for the banner to be hoisted.
[30]
O Mystery of God! Draw forth Thy hand from the Unseen,
That Thou mayest discharge the mortals from their clay,
And cleanse the mirrors of their hearts from their rust.
From the shackles of the world, O Thou,
Release all these pilgrims and companions
Attire their heads with the crown of acceptance,
Gird up their temples with the girdle of love.”
That’s enough, O Dervish! Don’t torment us any longer,
‘Cause many sparks have fallen from these words.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”
Bahá’u’lláh’s poem which begins with the verse Sa˙ar ámad
bi bistar-am Yár, “At dawn the Friend came to my bed,” is one
among eight Persian poems signed “Dervish,” and published by
the Iranian Bahá’í scholar ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq Khávarí (1902–
1972) in his multi-volume anthology of the Writings of the
Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith Má’idiy-i-Asmání (4:176-211).3
Literary aspects
As to the perspective of the form, this specific poem may be
defined a poem in the light of the following definition of
poetry, given by Franklin D. Lewis, an expert in Persian
Language and Literature, as to Nineteenth century Persia:
“rhymed speech (moqafâ) composed in lines (bayt / abyât)
following one of the established quantitative meters (bahr /
bohur) and arranged according to a particular form” (“Poetry as
Revelation” 102). Specifically, Sa˙ar ámad bi bistar-am Yár
conforms to the traditional Persian verse form of the qaßídih.
The qaßídih is a poem “always designed to be chanted or
sung” (Lane 7:60), born among the Arabs, of whose lyrics it was
“the primary instrument” (Bausani, “Letteratura neopersiana” 176),
and later introduced into Persia. Its name derives from the
Arabic root qaßada, that is, “he made him, or it, his object; he
aimed at him, or it: he sought, endeavored after, pursued, or
endeavored to reach or attain, or obtain, him, or it: he desired
it, or wished for it: he intended it; purposed it; or meant it”
(Lane 7:59). As Fritz Johann Heinrich Krenkow (1872–1953), a
German scholar in Arabic, Persian and Islamic Studies, and
Gérard Lecomte (1926–1997), a French scholar in Arabic and
Islamic studies, explain in the Encyclopaedia of Islam, the
primitive qaßídih “was intended to eulogize the tribe of the
poet and denigrate the opposing tribes. Later it was concerned
with the eulogy of a personality or a family from whom the
poet was soliciting help or subsidies.” Probably on the ground

At Dawn The Friend Came
of this etymology, Edward G. Browne (1862–1926), the
renowned British Orientalist, called the qaßídih “purpose-poem”
(Literary History 2:22). In Persia it came to be mainly used as “an
instrument of panegyric or philosophic and moralizing poetry”
(“Letteratura neopersiana” 176). The most important formal aspects
of Persian qaßídih, as listed in the Encyclopaedia of Islam (de
Fouchécour), the Encyclopaedia Britannica (“Qasida”), and
other sources, are as follows:
Length: “the number of its distiches exceeds 15 and does not
exceed 30” (de Fouchécour). However, according to other sources,
qaßídih may have from “60 to 100 lines” (“Qasida”). Henri
Wilberforce-Clarke (1840-1905), first translator of the Bústán
of Sa‘dí and of the Sikandar Námih by Nízamí, remarks: “This
kind of poem is read in the presence of him in whose honour it
is composed; and therefore should not be so long as to weary
him” (xv).
Rhyme: the ending of the first hemistich of the first distich
of the qaßídih “had to supply the one single rhyme for the whole
poem. The rhyme was repeated in each ∂arb, the final part of
the second hemistich of each distich, according to complex
rules” (de Fouchécour).
Metre: “virtually any metre is acceptable for the qasida
except the rajaz,4 which has lines only half the length of those
in other metres” (“Qasida”). Lewis reminds us that according to
“traditional metrics ... a poem should follow the same meter
throughout” (“Short Poem” 85).
Contents: “as a general rule, the poet must ensure that the
meaning of each bayt is independent of its neighbours”
(“Qasida”).
Three parts: all authors agree in saying that classical qaßídihs
are divided into three parts, however they differ from one
another in explaining the features of the three parts. We will
follow the model offered by the French Iranianist Charles-
Henri de Fouchécour. The first part, “the exordium, must

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
command attention by touching the hearts of the listeners, an
effect which is often achieved by a ghazal, a courtly song,5
either by describing the beauty of the beloved and the state of
the lover (nasíb), or through the amorous poet making his
listeners share in his condition (tashbíb)” (de Fouchécour). The
Italian Islamicist Alessandro Bausani (1921–1988) comments
that in the first part “the poet laments his separation from his
beloved one or describes her abandoned home or springtime.”
He also writes that at the end of this part the poet uses “some
skilful devices of one or two verses,” called gurízgáh, to pass
“into the second and most important part” (“Letteratura
neopersiana” 176). The second part (mad˙), an
eulogy for a prince or protector, is the central portion
of the ḳaßída; put into a sensitive frame of mind by the
exordium ... the listener will be carried away by the
poet’s skill; all that is required is a degree of rhythm in
the eulogy, a strong effect of balágha (a wealth of
meaning in a few words) but an uncontentious one, and
the transport of the soul out of its ordinary element. (de
Fouchécour)
The third part is “the petition: the poet must know how to
‘wrap up’ his request ... stirring the person being praised to
reward him by the charm of his poem and the renown it
engenders” (de Fouchécour).
Important verses: three distiches require particular care: the
first one, because “it opens the poem and signals all the areas of
expression”; the transitional verse between the first and the
second part, the eulogy, “which must skilfully introduce the
name of the person being eulogised”; and the final verse
(maqta‘), “which must be of a quality that redeems any
mediocrities in the work” (de Fouchécour).
The pen name of the poet (takhalluß) is included in the final
verse (maqta‘).

At Dawn The Friend Came
In this poem Bahá’u’lláh adopts a loose form of qaßidih,
introducing formal and thematic innovations and making
several exceptions to the classic model of this poetical form. As
to its length, this poem has 34 distiches (15-30 is the average
length of a classical qaßidih). As to its rhyme, it is classically
one-rhymed (in -ár). As to its metre, it seems that Bahá’u’lláh
does not use the same verse throughout His poem, although the
prosodic rules of qaßídih require the poet to follow the same
metre throughout. As to an independent meaning in each verse,
this rule has an exception in verses 30-1, which together convey
a single meaning.
The time hath come for the banner to be hoisted.
O Mystery of God! Draw forth Thy hand from the
Unseen,
That Thou mayest discharge the mortals from their clay,
And cleanse the mirrors of the hearts from their rust.
Besides, the whole poem is a kind of dialogue between the
Beloved and the Poet as a lover, and thus no verse is wholly
independent from the other ones. All verses are connected to
one another by the special form adopted by Bahá’u’lláh, as if
He intended to endow this poem with a unitary structure. He
describes a dialogue between the lover and the Beloved, Who at
dawn goes to the lover’s bedside. It is a loose form of the
rhetoric device, typical of the qaßídih and ghazal, called su’ál-u-
javáb (question and answer). There are several poems totally
written on this base. Bahá’u’lláh also uses su’ál-u javáb in two
other poems, Ishq az Sidriy-i-A‘lá ámad and But-i-má ámad bá
ba††í-u bádih. In this respect these three poems have illustrious
precursors, for example numbers 50 and 166 of the poems by
Jalalu’d-Dín Rúmí (1207–1273) translated by Arthur John
Arberry (1905–1969), the well-known British orientalist (Mystical
poems 1:44-45 and 138), and numbers 136 and 194 of the poems by
Shamsu’d-Dín Óafi.z (ca.1318–1390) translated by Wilberforce-
Clark (see Díván 280 and 366-7). Rúmí writes:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
He said, “Who is at the door?” I said, “Your humble
slave.” He said, “What is your business?” I said, “Lord,
to greet you.”
And he goes on in this vein for 12 verses. Óafi.z writes:
To the (true Beloved), I said: “Grief for Thee, I have.”
He said: “To the end (when union is attained), thy grief
cometh:
And he continues in this fashion for 8 verses.
As to the three parts in which each qaßídih is usually divided,
the three parts of this poem are not so well distinguished from
one another as in a classical qaßídih, and rather follow one
another without a precise neat line. The first part comprises
verses 1-14. The second hemistich of verse 1, which mentions
the state of the lover, “fool for love” and “broken heart,”
loosely resembles a nasíb, a verse describing the beauty of the
Beloved and the state of the lover. We cannot say whether the
Poet really wants “his listeners share in his condition,” as it
usually happens in a tashbíb. Verse 14 may be loosely
considered as a gorízgáh, or passage, using “some skilful devices
of one or two verses,” to pass “into the second and most
important part.” The Poet asks the Beloved: “How is it that
Thou camest to this sick bed?” This question introduces the
second part, which comprises verses 15-29, and should be a
mad˙, that is an eulogy of the Beloved. However, only two
verses, 15 and 16, are devoted to a direct description of the
Beloved, “by Whose face the sun is enlightened in the sky” and
“by Whose love the essence of peace is unsettled.” The other
verses continue describing the Poet. This second description of
the Poet is different from that of the first part, because it
dwells on the relation between the Poet and the Beloved, and
especially the Poet’s faithfulness to His own love for the
Beloved. Obviously, when the Poet describes His own
faithfulness to the Beloved, somehow He implicitly hints to the
Beloved’s greatness, beauty and power. Could such a description

At Dawn The Friend Came
be considered as an eulogy of the Beloved? Verse 29 also seems
to meet the prerequisites of a gorízgáh, a passage. It says:
The Birds of Eternity returned to their nest,
We remained downtrodden and wretched on earth.
It describes the feelings of lover: he is “downtrodden and
wretched,” and lonely, because all His companions have offered
their lives in their love for their Beloved. This description
prepares the petition voiced in the third part, verses 30-4. The
Poet’s petition is absolutely unselfish. The Most Great Spirit is
implored, His advent is invoked, for the good of all “mortals,”
“pilgrims and companions” on the spiritual path.
As to the three important verses of this ode, the first (ma†la‘)
connotes the whole poem: “At dawn the Friend came to my
bed.” As to the transitional verse between the first and the
second part, verse 14,
I answered: “O Friend! O Healer of my soul!
How is it that Thou camest to this sick bed?”
may be loosely considered as a transitional verse (gurízgáh). The
Beloved is called: “Friend” and “Healer of my soul,” an
especially intimate description of the Most Great Spirit, to
Whom Bahá’u’lláh seems to address this poem. As to the last
verse, maqta‘, “which must be of a quality that redeems any
mediocrities in the work,” it will be commented upon later on.
As to the nom de plume (takhalluß), as has been said, Bahá’u’lláh
adopts the name of “Dervish,” and this appears in the final
verse.
Rhetorical devices
Bahá’u’lláh uses in this ode a number of rhetorical devices
typical of Persian poetry. The most important of them are as
follows.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Tajnís, literally “alliteration” (Steingass 283), or jinás, literally
“play on words, pun” (Aryanpur Kashani 376), are “actual graphic
or phonetic play on words ... of various kinds which the reader
can easily imagine”
(“Letteratura
neopersiana”
177). Strictly
connected as it is to the phonetic feature of the language in
which the poem has been written, the alliteration cannot be
usually preserved in translations. For example Bahá’u’lláh
writes:
“with no veil (bí-˙ijáb) ... beyond any mortal frame (bí-
jassab)” (v.28) — the alliteration “bí-˙ijáb ... bí-jassab” is
obviously lost in the English translation;
“That You may discharge the mortals from their clay (Tá
rahání khákyán-rá Tú zi khák)” (v.31) — also in this verse
the alliteration “khákyán ... khák” is lost;
“From the shackles of the world ... release (zi qayd-i-ín
jahán bi-rahán)” (v.32) — the alliteration “ín jahán (the
world) bi-rahán (release)” is lost.
“Attire their heads with the crown of acceptance (Bar
sar-ishán nih az táj-i-qabúl tájí)” (v.33) — the alliteration
“táj ... tájí” is lost.
Isti‘arih is “a metaphor, like ‘the eye of the intellect will not
use any collyrium to purify its sight but the dust of thy
battles’” (“Letteratura neopersiana” 177). Sa˙ar ámad bi bistar-am
Yár is rich in such metaphors, as are all Bahá’u’lláh’s poems.
These are the most important examples:
“bed of ease (bistar-i-rá˙at)” (v.4);
“the heart of the world (kabid-i-‘álam) ... the eye of the
universe (chashm-i-jahán)” (v.5);
“the prison of cruelty (sijn-i-jafá)” (v.7);
“an arrow | Of cruelty (tír-i-jafá)” (v.19);

At Dawn The Friend Came
“Thy pitiless sword (tígh-i-jafá-t, lit. the sword of Your
cruelty)” (v.22);
“the lace of Thy love (rishtiy-i-˙ubb-i-Tú)” (v.24);
“the fire of anguish (átash-i-gham)” (v.27);
“Draw forth Thy hand from the Unseen (dastí az Ghayb
bar ár)” (v.30);
“the mirrors of their hearts (áyiniy-i-dil)” (v.31);
“the crown of acceptance (táj-i-qabúl) ... the girdle of
love (az ˙ubb zunnár)” (v.33).
Tashbíh, “similitude, likeness”
(Steingass
302), is “our
comparison, of various, easily to guess, kinds” (“Letteratura
neopersiana” 177-8). For example Bahá’u’lláh writes:
“thy body ... as thin as a thread (gashtih badan-at chún
tár)” (v.11);
“as bitten by a snake (kih gazíd-ash már)” (v.12).
Óashv, or redundancy, is the “juxtaposition of synonymous
words to reinforce a poetical concept” (“Letteratura neopersiana”
177). For example, Bahá’u’lláh writes
“thou tossest and turnest (ghal†í-u píchí)” (v.12);
“the secret of my heart (Sirr-i-dil) ... the riddle of my
soul (Ramz-i-ján)” (v.18);
“downtrodden and wretched (dhalíl-u khwár)” (v.29).
Tanásub, “relation, conformity”
(Steingass
326), is the
introduction of “things naturally associated, as for example
arch and arrow, night and day, etc.” (“Letteratura neopersiana” 178).
Bahá’u’lláh associates
“sun ... sky (shams ... samá’)” (v.15);
“mountains and plains (kúh ... dasht)” (v.20);

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
“Birds ... nest (a†yár ... áshyán)” (v.29).
In verse 32 He mentions “pilgrims and companions (muhájarín-
u anßár).” The association of these two words goes back to
Koran 9:101:
As for those who led the way, the first of the
Mohadjers, and the Ansars, and those who have
followed their noble conduct, God is well pleased with
them, and they with Him: He hath made ready for them
gardens under whose trees the rivers flow: to abide
therein for aye: this shall be the great bliss.
and to Koran 9:18:
Now hath God turned Him unto the Prophet and unto
the refugees (Mohadjers), and unto the helpers (Ansars),
who followed him in the hour of distress, after that the
hearts of a part of them had well nigh failed them. Then
turned He unto them, for He was Kind to them,
Merciful.
Óusn-i-ta‘líl is a “fantastic aetiology, that is ascribing
fantastic, poetical causes to real facts and things” (“Letteratura
neopersiana” 178). Bahá’u’lláh writes in this vein:
Thy pains set on fire the hearts of the friends;
Thy groans darkened the faces of the lover. (v.8)
Thine eyes shed rubies of blood, whereby
The eye of the twilight hath turned pomegranate red. (v.9)
Mubálighih, “exaggeration” (Steingass 1149), is our hyperbole,
which in Persian poetry “takes incredibly extreme forms”
(“Letteratura neopersiana” 178). Bahá’u’lláh writes in this vein:
Should I tell what I saw in my love for Thee,
My tongue would grow weary of speaking. (v.21)

At Dawn The Friend Came
I tied my heart to the curl of Thy tresses,
That it may be not be unloosed till the Judgment Day. (v.25)
Should I be slaughtered a myriad times, with every
Moment, still I wouldn’t rebel against Thy love. (v.26)
Raddu’l-‘ajiuz ‘ala’ß-ßadr “consists in using the same word in
two different parts of the verse, that which confers a sense of
rhythm to the whole” (“Letteratura neopersiana” 178). Like tajnís,
also this rhetorical device is strictly connected to the phonetic
features of the Persian language, and thus it cannot be usually
preserved in translations. For example Bahá’u’lláh writes in this
vein:
The heart of the world was burnt by the fire of Thy wails
(átash-i-áh),
The eyes of the universe was consumed by the fire (átash-
bár, lit. inflamed) of thine afflictions. (v.5)
“‘Cause my head (sar-am) hasn’t been ... hung on the gallows
(sar-i-dár)” (v.27).
Óusn-i-maq†a‘, or beautiful final verse, “consists in a skilful
request for a prize written by the poet who puts his signature in
the last verse of his qaßídè” (“Letteratura neopersiana” 178). The
poems written by Bahá’u’lláh have not a human addressee, to
whom He might ask something. Therefore this device does not
appear in this form in His poems. At most Bahá’u’lláh addresses
His “beautiful final verse” to Himself, as for example verse 34,
in which He urges Himself not to reveal Himself to the world,
because the times are not yet ripe:
That’s enough, O Dervish! Don’t torment us any longer,
‘Cause many sparks have fallen from these words.
Ta∂ádd, which Haïm translates “Contrast ... antilogy” (1:445),
but would more precisely be translated “antithesis,” is “the
rhetorical opposing or contrasting of ideas by means of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
grammatically parallel arrangements of words, clauses, or
sentences” (Webster’s 96). Bahá’u’lláh uses this rhetorical devise
in the first hemistich of verse 15:
O Thou, by Whose love the essence of peace is unsettled.
The contents of the poem
The first person narrator is always Bahá’u’lláh, the lover.
This poem seems to describe the mystical experience of His
encounter with the Most Great Spirit, the Friend, in Teheran’s
Síyáh-Chál. The lover is sleepless, pale and thin. So faithful is he
to his Beloved that he will willingly suffer for Him to the Day
of Judgment. The Beloved, so caring that He goes to the
bedside of His lover (v.1), does not appear ironic and cruel, as it
usually does in Persian mystical poetry. He is even tender-
hearted, when He asks the lover the reasons of his sleeplessness
and faithfulness (vv.11-13):
Wherefore art thou restless tonight? Wherefore
Hath thy body become as thin as a thread?
In the night thou tossest and turnest on thy couch,
Thou tossest and groanest, as bitten by a snake.
Why doest thou turn and groan, now?
Why doeth thy face turn pale?
If we read this poem according to the classical standards of
Persian mystical poetry, we could think that the Beloved is so
cruel that He mocks His lover, because of his acceptance of the
pains he is meeting in his love for Him. An example of this kind
of scorn may be found in the following verse of a ghazal by
Rúmí:
My idol scolds, saying, “Why have you fallen in the
middle of the road?” (Mystical Poems 2:121, no.366, v.1)

At Dawn The Friend Came
But if we read verses 11-13 in a Bahá’í perspective, they seem
to say that the Beloved worries for His lover and sympathizes
with him. In this respect, they are reminiscent of the dialogue
between Bahá’u’lláh and the Maid of Heaven as described in
Lawh-i-Óúríyyih. In this Tablet the Maid of Heaven perceives
such a pain in Bahá’u’lláh that She lifts “Her gaze to the
heavens with grief and misery,” and looks “at the earth in
confusion and regret” (“Tablet of the Maiden,” provisional translation
by Juan R. Cole).
The figure of the Beloved is just outlined in verses 15-6. He
seems an exalted spiritual Entity, “Almighty (Kirdigár)” (v.28),
“Unique One (A˙ad)” (v.28), a “Mystery of God (Sirr-i-Khudá)”
(v.30). Later on, verse 31 describes Him as capable of relieving
“the mortals from their clay” and of cleansing “the mirrors of
the hearts from their rust.” The lover does not suffer for his
remoteness from the Beloved, because the Beloved is beside
him. He suffers because his love is exposed to the wickedness
of his fellow-beings, who oppress him in several ways. The
autobiographical reference is very clear. In His love for the
Beloved, Bahá’u’lláh has renounced whatever may interest a
common human being: home, wealth, social position,
connections, even His country. It is not the Beloved the cause
of His pain. His own faithfulness to love is the cause of his
pains.
Major themes
Of the four major themes of Persian lyrical poetry as
described by Bausani, that is “wine, love, springtime and
mystics” (“Letteratura neopersiana” 176), only wine is absent.
Springtime motifs mostly appear as nature tropes. Mystical
themes appear sometimes as theological and scriptural motifs.
They also appear as didactic themes, the early seeds of the new
mystical way that Bahá’u’lláh was opening to His lovers. Last
but not least, this poem has many autobiographical references.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Love
The whole poem is based on this uplifting theme. It may be
viewed as a passionate conversation between two lovers. Many
of the clichés of the lover language of Sufi poetry appear in
these verses. The lover is “fool for love,” broken hearted,
pining away for his Lover, sleepless, thin and pale. He suffers,
as the lovers of traditional Sufi poems. Bahá’u’lláh typically
writes:
My groans proclaim the secret of my heart;
My tearful eyes reveal the riddle of my soul. (v.18)
However, whereas the Sufi lover suffers because his Beloved
is cruel, remains far from him, and often mocks him for his
love, in this Poem the Beloved is close to His lover, and has pity
for him, and welcomes his faithfulness. As has been said, it is
the hostility of his fellow-beings, that makes the lover suffer.
Wherever the lover goes, he is a prisoner, a description
reminiscent of other words written by Bahá’u’lláh about
Himself: “At all times He was at the mercy of the wicked doers.
At one time they cast Him into prison, at another they banished
Him, and at yet another hurried Him from land to land” (Súriy-i-
Haykal: Queen Victoria 92, sec.1, para.177). He wrote moreover in the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán: “All this generation could offer Us were wounds
from its darts, and the only cup it proffered to Our lips was the
cup of its venom. On our neck We still bear the scar of chains,
and upon Our body are imprinted the evidences of an
unyielding cruelty.” [KI 190]
Springtime motifs and nature tropes
The opening verse of this ode recites: “At dawn (sa˙ar) the
Friend came to my bed.” This beginning resembles a ma†la‘, the
first verse of a ghazal. The Beloved visits the lover at dawn,
when he is still asleep. It is a common poetical device among
the Sufis. For example Rúmí wrote:

At Dawn The Friend Came
Yesterday at dawn (sa˙arí) passing by the Beloved said to
me, “You are distraught and unaware; how long will this
go on?” (Mystical poems 1:110, no.130, v.1; Díván, “Ghazalyát,”
no.1022, v.1)
Rúmí writes moreover:
One morning (sa˙arí) He whose sleep
The angels envy came and looked into my heart.
He wept and I wept, as long as the dawn arrived.
They asked: “Of the two, who is the lover?” (Díván,
“Rubá’yát,” part. 2)
Also Fátimih Zarrín-Táj Baragháni (ca.1817–1852), known as
Qurratu’l-‘Ayn, Consolation of the Eyes, or more frequently as
ˇáhirih, the Pure, famous among the Bahá’ís as one of the Báb’s
Letters of the Living, and among the Persians as a refined
poetess, writes in one of her poems:
As in sleep I lay at the dawn of day that cruel Charmer came
to me,
And in the grace of His form and face the dawn of the morn
I seemed to see. (qtd. in Browne, A Persian Anthology 70-1)
Dawn, “in the Islamic tradition, time par excellence of
ecstasy and visions” (Saccone, “Sensi e soprasensi” 41), associated as
it is to the rising sun after the nocturnal darkness, symbolizes
the return of spirit in a lifeless world. Bahá’u’lláh was born in
Teheran on 12 November 1817 at dawn and seems to have a
strong personal tie with this time of the day. Rú˙íyyih Rabbani
(1910–2000), the wife of Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the
Bahá’í Faith, writes in this regard:
He had, evidently, a deep association with that hour of
the day when the life of the world is repoured into it.
How could He not have? Was He not the Hermit of Sar-
Galú, where He spent many months in a lonely stone hut

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
perched on a hilltop; the sunrise must have often found
Him waiting and watching for its coming, His voice
rising and falling in the melodious chants of His
supplications and compositions. At how many dawns He
must have heard the birds of the wilderness wake and cry
out when the first rays of the sun flowed over the
horizon and witnessed in all its splendor the coming
alive of creation after the night. (Bahá’í World vol. 9, 792)
The time of dawn has deep spiritual meanings in the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh. It is the beginning of the manifestation of the
potentialities of the new Day of God, it is the beginning of a
new, personal and collective, spiritual journey. And, since
advanced mystics “see the end and the beginning as one” (SV15),
dawn is a precious time of multi-potentiality, a special time of
communion with the Divine. Bahá’u’lláh wrote:
For Thine ardent lovers Thou hast, according to Thy
decree, reserved, at each daybreak (as˙ár), the cup of
Thy remembrance, O Thou Who art the Ruler of rulers!
These are they who have been so inebriated with the
wine of Thy manifold wisdom that they forsake their
couches in their longing to celebrate Thy praise and
extol Thy virtues, and flee from sleep in their eagerness
to approach Thy presence and partake of Thy bounty.
(PM142, sec.85, para.2; Munáját 87)
Verse 9 also is significant for its nature tropes:
Thine eyes shed rubies of blood, whereby
The eye of the twilight hath turned pomegranate red.
The tears of blood similar to rubies are part of the clichés of
Persian mystical poetry. For example Majdúd Saná’í (d.
ca.1141), the earliest Persian mystical lyric poet, writes:
When that purest pearl moves away from me,

At Dawn The Friend Came
It befits me to shed rubies from my eyes. (Díván,
“Ghazalyát,” no.241, v.7)
This distich is a play on colours: the lover sheds tears similar to
rubies and the twilight shares his pain taking on the hues of a
pomegranate. Many Persian poets use these images. For example
Óafi.z writes:
O gardener (God, the Creator)! drive me not away like the
wind (portionless) from the door of the garden (of
existence);
For the water (of dominion and of creation) of the rose-
bed, like the ruddy pomegranate (gulnár), with the
(bloody) tears of mine is. (Díván 104, “Ghazalyát,” no.40,
v.6)
As to colours, in the Bahá’í Writings the adjective
“Crimson,” that is “a rich deep red colour inclining to purple”
(OED4:23), is often associated with the Manifestation of God or
with exalted spiritual realms. Bahá’u’lláh mentions the
crimson Tree (sidratu’l-˙amrá) (Law˙-i-Siyyid-i-Mihdíy-i-
Dahájí 196; Majmú‘ih 121, para.6);
Crimson Pillar (rukni’l-˙amrá’) (GDM72, para.05; Jawáhir
82);
crimson sea (al-ba˙ra’l-lujjí al-˙amrá’), to refer to
Himself (GDM60, para.83; Jawáhir 69);
crimson wine (khamru’l-˙amrá’) proffered by Thy snow-
white hand, to refer to His own Words (Súriy-i-Haykal 13,
1:23; Áthár 1:7);
Crimson Ark (as-safínatu’l-˙amrá’), to refer to His
Cause (KA50, para.84);
Crimson Book (ßa˙ífiy-i-˙amrá’), to refer to the Book
of His Covenant (ESW32; Law˙-i Mubárak-i-Kha†áb 24);

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Crimson Light (núru’l-˙amrá’) enveloping the Sinai of
Our Revelation (Súriy-i-Bayán 280, sec. CXXIX, para.7;
Muntakhabátí 180);
crimson cloud (ghamámu’l-˙amrá’), upon which “The
Promised One Himself hath come down from heaven,
seated ... with the hosts of revelation on His right, and
the angels of inspiration on His left” (Súriy-i-Vafá 182;
Majmú‘ih 113, para.7);
crimson land (ar∂u’l-˙amrá’) (GDM21, para.26; Jawáhir 26;
Law˙-i-Fu’ád 173, sec.4, para.1);
Crimson Hill (ar∂i kathíbi’l-˙amrá’), to refer to exalted
spiritual realms (Súriy-i-Mulúk 185, sec.5, para.2; Súratu’l-
Mulúk 2);
crimson Spot (al-baq‘atu’l-mubárakatu’l-˙amrá’) (KA56,
para.100);
crimson ink (midáda’l-a˙mari) (HW, Arabic. no.71), to
refer to the blood of the martyrs.
Verse 16 recites:
The sky has filled its skirt (dámán) with pearls (gawhar),
That it may lay it down at the feet of Thy Majesty.
The skirt filled with pearls is among the clichés used by Persian
mystical poets. For example Rúmí writes:
She filled her skirt (dámán) with pearls (gawhar) and sat
down at his bedside. (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.2041, v.5)
This poetical description of the Beloved’s beauty, evoking a
nocturnal sky spangled with stars, is reminiscent of the
following words in a meditation by Bahá’u’lláh: “Every time I
lift up mine eyes unto Thy heaven, I call to mind Thy highness
and Thy loftiness, and Thine incomparable glory and greatness”
(PM271, sec.76, para.15). While writing this verse, Bahá’u’lláh may

At Dawn The Friend Came
have gone with His mind back to the clear night skies of His
adolescence, when He visited the mountain villages of Afchih
and Tákur, where His family had two Mansions, or Yálrúd, the
native town of His beloved wife Ásíyih (ca.1820–1886), known
as Navváb, located in the Alborz range.
Mystical themes
Verse 28 recites:
I come with no veil before Thee to behold, O Almighty,
Thy Face beyond any mortal frame, O Unique One.
This distich has strong mystical connotations. The Beloved is
invoked as “Unique One (A˙ad)” and “Almighty (Kirdigár).”
The lover goes “with no veil” in front of the Beloved, so that he
may behold Him “beyond any mortal frame (bí-jasad, lit.
without body).” This image also belongs to the malámatí vein,
because the Persian adjective bí-˙ijáb has a connotation of
immodesty. The German Orientalist Annemarie Schimmel
(1922–2003) remarks that Islam “strictly prohibits nudity”
(Deciphering 93). She then adds:
As contrary as nudity is to strict Islamic prescriptions,
it is nevertheless used as a metaphor in mystical
language, and authors like Bahá-i Walad (d. 1231) and
his son, Jaláluddín Rúmí, as well as Násir Muhammad
‘Andalíb and Siráj Awrangábádí in eighteenth-century
India (to mention only a few), used this term to point to
the moment when the everyday world and its objects
have, as it were, been discarded and only God and the
soul are left in a union attained by the absolute
“denudation” of the soul. (Deciphering 94)
The strong mystical hues of this distich suggest that this
locution, “with no veil,” or naked, could be interpreted as
wholly detached from anything but the Beloved, “detached from

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
all else but Him” (Súriy-i-Mulúk 204, sec.5, para.47). It is reminiscent
of an aphorism of the Persian Hidden Words reciting: “Pass
beyond the baser stages of doubt and rise to the exalted heights
of certainty. Open the eye of truth, that thou mayest behold the
veilless Beauty (Jamál-i-mubín) and exclaim: Hallowed be the
Lord, the most excellent of all creators!” (no.9; Kalimát-i-Maknúnih
426). If the lover wants to behold the Beloved without veils,
first he must remove his own veils, that is detach himself from
whatever may bind him to the lower, animal, level of his
existence and separate him from his higher, spiritual, level.
Theological themes
Verse 15 says:
O Thou, by Whose Face the sun is enlightened in the sky,
O Thou, by Whose love the essence of peace is unsettled.
The description of the Beloved takes in this verse mystical
and theological connotations. When the Most Great Spirit
shows Its face, that is reveals Itself, the Sun of Reality, the
Manifestation of God, rises in the world. His light enlightens
the sun itself in the sky. The Manifestation of God is “the
central Orb of the universe, its Essence and ultimate Purpose”
(KI99-100, para.106). Because of Him “the essence of peace is
unsettled.” In the Beloved the opposites coincide. According to
the Sufis the coincidence of opposites is only realized in Being
in Itself, bringing “all opposites together in a single reality”
(Chittick 112). An aspect of this coincidence is the harmonious
balance between elements which human beings often see as
conflicting with one another, as for example love and reason,
war and peace. Rúmí writes:
The mind cannot compass its [the pen of the Beloved]
description, for in it is the union of opposites, a com-
position without composition, amazing! — constrained
yet with free will. (Mystical Poems 2:94, no.324, v.9)

At Dawn The Friend Came
Bahá’u’lláh explains that the coincidence of opposites is
realized in the Manifestation of God: “I bear witness that in
His person solidity and fluidity have been joined and
combined” (PM48, sec.38, para.3). He explains moreover in the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the
recipients and revealers of all the unchangeable
attributes and names of God. They are the mirrors that
truly and faithfully reflect the light of God. Whatsoever
is applicable to them is in reality applicable to God,
Himself, Who is both the Visible and the Invisible ...
Through the manifold attributes of these Essences of
Detachment, Who are both the first and the last, the
seen and the hidden, it is made evident that He Who is
the Sun of Truth is “the First and the Last, the Seen, and
the Hidden.”6 (KI142-3, para.151)
He alludes to this concept in the following verse in another
Poem:
Through His wisdom, the coincidence of opposites is made
manifest,
Now Love becomes a servant, now the Intellect a porter.
(Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, verse 19)7
Verse 15, however, can also have a simpler interpretation.
Such is the ardour of the lover’s love for the Beloved, that his
heart is disquieted. Bahá’u’lláh uses a similar metaphor in His
Law˙-i-Óikmat describing Apollonius of Tyana, a philosopher
and an ascetic of the first century AD, to whom He ascribes the
following words: “My heart is seized with alarm, my limbs
tremble, I have lost my reason and my mind hath failed me”
(148).

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Scriptural themes
Bahá’u’lláh mentions “pilgrims and companions” (v.32).
Moreover He writes in verse 30:
O Mystery of God! Draw forth Thy hand from the Invisible.
As to “pilgrims and companions (muhájarín-u anßár),” it is a
reference to the followers of Muhammad, immediately after the
Hegira. Pilgrims are those followers who accompanied Him in
His relocation from Mecca to Medina. Companions are the
inhabitants of the town who supported Him.8 As has been
previously said, these two words are mentioned together in the
Koran (9:18 and 101). Bausani explains the meaning of the Hegira,
erroneously sometimes called “flight” to Medina. The
Arabic word hiğra, from which our vulgar hegira comes,
mainly conveys, beside the concept of “leaving” and
“emigrating,” the idea of “rescission of tribal ties;” in
other words it has technical and juridical connotations.
(“Religione islamica” 376)
Distich 32 seems to imply that the effects of the Revelation
will become manifest in all those who will accompany the new
Manifestation in His new “Hegira” and will assist Him, cutting
all ties with their former tradition. This verse also conveys an
autobiographical reference. Bahá’u’lláh also has left His Mecca,
Teheran. He has been followed by a few faithful relatives, His
first wife Navváb, His nine years old son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, His
seven years old daughter, Báhíyyih Khánum (1846–1932), His
loyal true brother, Mírzá Músa (ca.1819–1887), known as Áqáy-
i-Kalím, and His young half-brother, Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Qulí
(1837–1910), who was faithful to Bahá’u’lláh even after His
passing (see GPB108, sec.7, para.10). In Baghdad He found only a
handful of faithful companions who assisted Him. Otherwise
He was completely alone. He describes His loneliness as
follows: “Upon Our arrival in ‘Iráq We found the Cause of God
sunk in deep apathy and the breeze of divine revelation stilled.

At Dawn The Friend Came
Most of the believers were faint and dispirited, nay utterly lost
and dead” (Ishraqát 130).
As to hemistich 30, it is an allusion to the white hand
outstretched by Moses (see Savi 184-6) and it can be more easily
understood in the light of the Koranic episode to which it
refers. As in the Bible (Ex. 4:2-9), the Koran relates that, when
God assigned to Moses the mission of rescuing the Jews from
their Egyptian captivity, He vouchsafed upon Him a
thaumaturgic power as a proof of His divine mission.
“... Now, what is that in thy right hand, O Moses?”
Said he, “It is my staff on which I lean, and with which I beat
down leaves for my sheep, and I have other uses for it.”
He said, “Cast it down, O Moses!”
So he cast it down, and lo! it became a serpent that ran
along.
He said, “Lay hold on it, and fear not: to its former state will
we restore it.”
“Now place thy right hand (yad) to thy arm-pit: it shall come
forth white, but unhurt:– another sign! –
That We may shew thee the greatest of our signs
Go to Pharaoh, for he hath burst all bounds.” (20:17-24)
The Sufi masters maintained that “Whiteness signifies the First
Intellect, which is the center of the primal cloud (‘amá’). It is
the first thing that emerges from the blackness of the unseen
and is the greatest source of light within that realm, being
described as whiteness, in juxtaposition to the blackness of the
unseen” (Nurbakhsh 4:54).
Bahá’u’lláh offers a key for the explanation of the episodes
of Moses’ life in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán. He writes: “Armed with the
rod of celestial dominion, adorned with the white hand of

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
divine knowledge, and proceeding from the Párán of the love
of God, and wielding the serpent of power and everlasting
majesty, He [Moses] shone forth from the Sinai of light upon
the world” (KI11, para.12). In other Tablets Bahá’u’lláh ascribes
to Himself the sign of the White Hand: “This is Mine hand
which God hath turned white for all the worlds to behold” (qtd.
in GPB 169, sec.10, para.12).
Didactic themes
The importance of three main concepts emerges from this
poem: faithfulness, tribulations and acceptance.
As to faithfulness, the covenant of love that binds the lover
to his Beloved is eternal. The lover has tied his “heart to the curl
of Thy tresses,” so “That it may not be unloosed till the
Judgement Day” (v.25). This covenant implies for the lover to
entirely forgets his self, and to make whatever his Beloved
wishes. Historical examples of people who betrayed this
covenant of love are, in the Christian Dispensation, Judas
Iscariot and, in the Bahá’í Dispensation, Mu˙ammad ‘Alí (ca.
1853–1937), the unfaithful son of Bahá’u’lláh, who did not
accept the last will clearly set down by his Father, and rebelled
against ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, His appointed Successor. In this man the
selfish love for power, that in him took the form of a desire of
being the successor of his Father in the place of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
prevailed over his love for the divine Beauty of his own Father.
Bahá’u’lláh also writes:
My soul won’t cut the lace of Thy love,
Should it be beheaded with a deadly blade. (v.24)
Should I be slaughtered a myriad times,
Still I wouldn’t rebel against Thy love. (v.26)
It is another symbolic and hyperbolic description of the lover’s
faithfulness. This prerequisite is mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh in

At Dawn The Friend Came
the introduction of the Four Valleys: “Have they not told thee
that faithfulness (istiqámat) is a duty on those who follow the
mystic way, that it is the true guide to His Holy Presence?”
(FV74, Chihár Vádí 141). It is also mentioned in the Persian Hidden
Words:
The first call of the Beloved is this: O mystic
nightingale! Abide not but in the rose-garden of the
spirit. O messenger of the Solomon of love! Seek thou
no shelter except in the Sheba of the well-beloved, and
O immortal phoenix! dwell not save on the mount of
faithfulness. Therein is thy habitation, if on the wings
of thy soul thou soarest to the realm of the infinite and
seekest to attain thy goal. (HW no.1)
Rúmí writes in this vein:
He said: “Where is calamity?” Said I: “In the
neighborhood of thy love”
He said: “How fare are you there?” Said I: “In
steadfastness (istiqámat).” (Selected Poems 57, 14:11)
Reynold Alleyne Nicholson (1868–1945), the well-known
eminent English orientalist, remarks that the Sufis ascribed
many meanings to the word faithfulness (istiqámat), as for
example “Continuance, the non preference of anything to God”
(237). This meaning seems pertinent in this verse. The lover does
not put anything before God, not even His life. Óafi.z writes in
this vein:
If desire be thine that the (true) beloved should not (by
severing asunder attachments to thee) break the
covenant,
Keep (with respect) the end of the cord so that (the
covenant) he may preserve. (Díván 294, “Ghazalyát,” no.146, v.2)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Óafi.z moreover ascribes the following words to the Beloved:
“respect the bond: be faithful in love, and I will not fail” (qtd. in
Nicholson 275).
As to tribulations, Bahá’u’lláh writes: “my spirit yearns after
Thy tribulations” (v.23). A Sufi cliché of the lover is that he is
willing to face every kind of pain and tribulation for his
Beloved’s sake. This concept is expressed by many Persian
mystical poets, as for example Saná’í, who wrote:
That heart which stands aloof from pain and woe
No seal or signature of Love can show. (qtd. in Browne, A
Literary History 2:322)
Bahá’u’lláh repeatedly expounded this idea in His Writings:
But for the tribulations which are sustained in Thy path,
how could Thy true lovers be recognized; and were it
not for the trials which are borne for love of Thee, how
could the station of such as yearn for Thee be revealed?
Thy might beareth me witness! The companions of all
who adore Thee are the tears they shed, and the
comforters of such as seek Thee are the groans they
utter, and the food of them who haste to meet Thee is
the fragments of their broken hearts. (PM155, sec.92,
para.1)
The lover accepts everything out of his love for the Beloved.
He accepts the “pitiless sword” (v.22) or as He later said:
“Behold Thou my head ready to fall before the sword (sayf) of
Thy Will, my neck prepared to bear the chains of Thy Desire,
my heart yearning to be made a target for the darts of Thy
Decree (qa∂á) ...” (PM95, sec.60, para.1; Munáját 69). He loves
suffering (dard), because He knows that “But for tribulations
(baláyá), how could the assured be distinguished from the
doubters among Thy servants? They who have been inebriated
with the wine of Thy knowledge, these, verily, hasten to meet
every manner of adversity (baláyá) in their longing to pass into

At Dawn The Friend Came
Thy presence” (PM9, sec.6, para.2; Munáját 11). The lover clings to
the decree (qadá) of God and his heart yearns “to be made a
target for the darts of ... [His] Decree (qa∂á’)” (PM95, sec.60,
para.1; Munáját 69), a decree (qa∂á’) that is “the sole hope of them
that have recognized Thy truth” (PM220, sec.133, para.1). He wants
to suffer (balá), because He is aware of the beneficial effects of
the pains of mystical love. Later on He went so far as stating:
“Perish that lover who discerneth between the pleasant and the
poisonous in his love for his beloved! Be thou satisfied with
what God hath destined (qa∂ay) for thee” (PM11, sec.8, para.2;
Munáját 13).
Submission to the Decree of God is emphasized as a sign of
love in many other Writings by Bahá’u’lláh, as for example: “O
Thou Whose tests (balá’) are a healing medicine to such as are
nigh unto Thee, Whose sword (sayf) is the ardent desire of all
them that love Thee, Whose dart is the dearest wish of those
hearts that yearn after Thee, Whose decree (qa∂á’) is the sole
hope of them that have recognized Thy truth!” (PM220-1, sec.133,
para.1; Munáját 148). In Gems of Divine Mysteries, in the City of
Love and Rapture, He writes that the lover “standeth ready to
obey whatsoever His Lord should please to decree as to his
beginning and his end”
(GDM29,
para.38). This verse is
reminiscent of Psalm 119:31 (KJB): “I cling to your decrees;
LORD, do not put me to shame. I have stuck unto thy
testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame.” This Psalm is
described in the Italian Catholic Jerusalem Bible [Bibbia di
Gerusalemme] as “A Praise of the Divine Law” (1256).
As to acceptance, Bahá’u’lláh writes in verse 33:
Attire their heads with the crown of acceptance,
Gird up their temples with the girdle of love.
The word acceptance (qabúl) seems to be used in
Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings
with
at
least
three
different
connotations. The most frequent meaning is God’s acceptance
of human deeds:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Thus with steadfast steps we may tread the Path of
certitude, that perchance the breeze that bloweth from
the meads of the good-pleasure of God may waft upon
us the sweet savours of divine acceptance (qabúl), and
cause us, vanishing mortals that we are, to attain unto
the Kingdom of everlasting glory. (KI134, para.146; KMI104)
Occupy thyself, during these fleeting days of thy life,
with such deeds as will diffuse the fragrance of Divine
good pleasure, and will be adorned with the ornament of
His acceptance (qabúl). (ESW76; Law˙-i Mubárak-i-Kha†áb 51)
The second meaning is man’s acceptance of God’s decrees:
What is it that could have induced them to reconcile
themselves (qabúl namúdih-and) to these grievous trials,
and to refuse to put forth a hand to repel them? (ESW75;
Law˙-i Mubárak-i-Kha†áb 51)
Thus this verse could mean that the Beloved will adorn all heads
with the crown of acceptance (qabúl), so that everyone “instead
of complaining,” will render “thanks unto God, and amidst the
darkness of their anguish” will reveal “naught but radiant
acquiescence to His will” (KI235, para.264).
The third meaning is the human acceptance of the
Manifestation of God:
Hath, from the foundation of the world until the
present day, any Light or Revelation shone forth from
the dayspring of the will of God which the kindreds of
the earth have accepted (qabúl namúdih), and Whose
Cause they have acknowledged? (ESW92; Law˙-i Mubárak-i-
Kha†áb 61)
When the Manifestation of God reveals Himself to the
world, the highest form of acceptance (qabúl) is to accept the
fact that God has decreed the beginning of a new Dispensation.

At Dawn The Friend Came
Bahá’u’lláh writes in this regard: “True belief in God and
recognition of Him cannot be complete save by acceptance
(tabaßßur) of that which He hath revealed and by observance of
whatsoever hath been decreed by Him and set down in the Book
by the Pen of Glory” (Tajallíyát 50; Majmú’ih 27, para.11).
Interestingly, in this verse acceptance is associated with love,
the central theme of the whole poem.
Autobiographical references
This poem is also rich in autobiographical references, see for
example the following verses:
Now is placed in fetters thy neck, as if thou werest a
rebellious
Servant, now, bound in chains, thou art hurried to the
bazaar.
Now thou are wronged in the hands of the oppressor,
Now thou spendest days and nights in the prison of
cruelty. (v.6-7)
I was dragged through mountains and plains (v.20)
The Birds of Eternity (A†yár-i-Baqá) returned to their nest
We remained downtrodden and wretched on earth. (v.29)
As to the words “Now is placed in fetters thy neck, as if thou
werest a rebellious Servant,” Bahá’u’lláh wrote in His Tablet to
Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh:
For them who are endued with discernment, and whose
eyes are fixed upon the Sublime Vision, it is no secret
that I have been, most of the days of My life, even as a
slave, sitting under a sword (sayfun) hanging on a thread,
knowing not whether it would fall soon or late upon
him. (Súriy-i-Haykal 136, sec.1, para.273; Áthár 1:87)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
As to the sentence “now, bound in chains, thou art hurried
to the bazaar,” it is reminiscent of that terrible day, in August
1853, when Bahá’u’lláh was brought to the prison of Síyáh-
Chál, a day He Himself described as follows:
We were in no wise connected with that evil deed, and
Our innocence was indisputably established by the
tribunals. Nevertheless, they apprehended Us, and from
Níyávaran, which was then the residence of His Majesty,
conducted Us, on foot and in chains, with bared head
and bare feet, to the dungeon of ˇihrán. A brutal man,
accompanying Us on horseback, snatched off Our hat,
whilst We were being hurried along by a troop of
executioners and officials. We were consigned for four
months to a place foul beyond comparison. (ESW20)
The “oppressors” could be all His adversaries about whom
He wrote in those days, that “with one consent [they] have
fallen upon me” (PM234, sec.145, para.1). And the prison of cruelty
could be the Síyáh-Chál, “a place foul beyond comparison”
(ESW20). And also in later years He was imprisoned, as He wrote
about Himself: “He hath, during the greater part of His life,
been sore-tried in the clutches of His enemies. His sufferings
have now reached their culmination in this afflictive Prison,
into which His oppressors have so unjustly thrown Him”
(GWB58, sec. XXIII, para.4). As to verse 20, it is reminiscent of
Bahá’u’lláh’s travel from Teheran to Baghdad, which began in
the heart of winter (12 January 1853–8 April 1853). First He
passed through barren “plains (dasht),” but later on His caravan
crossed the Saveh Pass and then the Sháh Pass through the
Nahavand Mountains and finally Mount Zagros (see Ruhe 165-74).
In this verse Bahá’u’lláh writes that the lover is “dragged
through mountains (kúh) and plains (dasht),” a condition He
later described in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf: “At one
time I found Myself on the heights of mountains (jibál); at
another in the depths of the prison (sijn) of ˇá (ˇihrán), in
chains and fetters” (ESW78; Law˙-i Mubárak-i-Kha†áb 53).

At Dawn The Friend Came
The lover is “drawn in front of the wicked (fujjár),” a
condition He later described as follows: “At one time they cast
Him into prison, at another they banished Him, and at yet
another hurried Him from land to land” (ESW63-4). As to verse
29, it has both mystical and historical connotations. In this
verse Bahá’u’lláh uses a locution very similar to a locution used
in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, “Birds of Eternity (A†yár-i-Baqá ...
Óamámát-i-Azalíyat)” (KI17, para.16; KMI14; see also KI24, para.24,
KMI 19). In those contexts the locution refers to the
Manifestations of God. Perhaps in verse 29 it refers not only to
the Báb, martyred in Tabríz on 9 July 1851, but also to all those
believers who “with ... love ... devotion ... exultation and holy
rapture ... sacrificed their lives in the path of the All-Glorious”
(KI226, para.251), the Bábí martyrs. Bahá’u’lláh wrote about them:
Their breasts were made targets for the darts of the
enemy, and their heads adorned the spears of the infidel.
No land remained which did not drink the blood of these
embodiments of detachment, and no sword that did not
bruise their necks. (KI224, para.250)
This verse seems to reflect the feelings of a Person Who,
after having seen all those companions being slaughtered in the
path of God and the following, almost immediate, decline of
the Bábí Community, perhaps wished to have gone He Himself
together
with
them.
It
seems
to
convey
the
same
discouragement described in the Fire Tablet, revealed many
years after in ‘Akká. But it is only a flash. Immediately after He
claims:
The time hath come for the banner to be hoisted.
O Mystery of God! Draw forth Thy hand from the
Unseen.
And the atmosphere of certitude and eagerness, typical of this
poem is immediately renewed.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
A slow reading of the poem
The following thoughts are offered only as personal
reflections on the verses revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, whose perusal
may evoke remembrances of His own Writings as well as of
verses of earlier poets.
Huva’l-Mughní fí kull-i-shá’n9
He is the Provider in all circumstances
The poem is preceded, as often happens in the Muslim as
well as Bahá’í literature, by an invocation of a name of God. In
this case Bahá’u’lláh uses the attribute of God al-Mughní, the
Enricher, defined by the British Orientalist, translator and
lexicographer Edward William Lane (1801–1876) as “as a name
of God ... He who satisfies, or contents, whom He will, of his
servants” (Lane 6:87). It is one of the ninety-nine “Most Beautiful
Names” that Muslim theologians have discovered in the Koran,
and precisely the 89th. It is a direct acknowledgment of the
Divine Providence, which suffices to everything in any
circumstance of life and an indirect statement of submission to
the Divine Decree, as befits One Who has just received the
intimation of such a momentous Mission. Bahá’u’lláh proclaims
His submission to the Divine Will in many Writings. For
example He writes:
Every time I hold my peace, and cease to extol Thy
wondrous virtues, Thy Spirit impelleth me to cry out
before all who are in Thy heaven and on Thy earth; and
every time I am still, the breaths wafted from the right
hand of Thy will and purpose pass over me, and stir me
up, and I find myself to be as a leaf which lieth at the
mercy of the winds of Thy decree, and is carried away
whithersoever Thou dost permit or command it. Every
man of insight who considereth what hath been revealed

At Dawn The Friend Came
by me, will be persuaded that Thy Cause is not in my
hands, but in Thy hands, and will recognize that the
reins of power are held not in my grasp but in Thy
grasp, and are subject to Thy sovereign might. (PM306-7,
sec.79, para.10)
Grievous as is My plight, O God, My Well-Beloved, I
render thanks unto Thee, and My Spirit is grateful for
whatsoever hath befallen me in the path of Thy good-
pleasure. I am well pleased with that which Thou didst
ordain for Me, and welcome, however calamitous, the
pains and sorrows I am made to suffer. (Súriy-i-Damm 89-
90, sec. XXXIX, para.1)
The Persian-Arabic script ﯽﻨﻣﻐ (M-gh-n-í) could also be read as
Mughanní, “A singer” (Steingass 1282). Óafi.z ascribes this
attribute to God Himself. He writes:
Saki by the independence of profligates, (I conjure thee)
drink wine.
So that, thou mayst hear the song of the Singer
(Mughanní), God, the Independent One (Huva’l-Ghaní)
(Díván 906, “Ghazalyát,” no.557, v.6; Divan, “Ghazalyát” 494,
no.479, v.6)
Óafi.z wrote a 44 verse Mathnaví entitled Mughanní Námih,
translated by Wilberforce-Clark “The Minstrel Rhyme” (Díván
993-6). Carlo Saccone, a refined Italian translator of Óafi.z’s
opera omnia, remarks: “The cantor (moghanni) is similar in his
meanings and functions to the cupbearer” (“Note” 218n1) in the
Sáqí Námih, that is, “the initiator into the mysteries of wine
and Love” (ibid. 216n1).
Sa˙ar ámad bi bistar-am Yár káy10
Shúrídih zi ‘ishq vay dil-afkár.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
At dawn the Friend came to my bed:
“O fool for love, O broken heart,
The trope of dawn has been previously explained. In the
second hemistich the lover is described as shúrídih. This
adjective comes from shúr, a term described by Javad
Nurbakhsh (1926–2008), the Master of the Nimatullahi Sufi
Order, as: “shur ... frenzy ... a state which accompanies
excitement and sometimes out-of-self-ness, occurring to the
wayfarer on hearing God’s utterance or in the state of dancing”
(15:121). Francis Joseph Steingass (1825–1903), the German
linguist expert on Arabic, Persian and Sanskrit who authored
the most famous Persian–English dictionary, defines shúrídih as
“Disturbed; mixed; mad, frantic, desperately in love; faint,
dejected” (766), that is crazy of love according to the traditional
canons.
The image of the lover as a mad man is a typical motif of the
love language of Persian lyric poetry. Whoever accepts such a
painful feeling as love cannot be but insane, for he has
renounced the primacy of reason and decided to follow the
rules of the heart, which are quite different. ‘A††ár writes:
Love is the fire (átash) here; but reason is the smoke.
When love has arrived, reason quickly takes to flight.
Reason in the madness of love (sawdáy-i-‘ishq) is no expert:
Love is not the business of native wit. (Speech 300, lines 3346-
7; Conference 98)
Bahá’u’lláh repeatedly alludes to the madness of love in the
Seven Valleys. For example, He writes: “when the fire of love is
ablaze, it burneth to ashes the harvest of reason” (SV8); and also
“To merit the madness of love, man must abound in sanity; to
merit the bonds of the Friend, he must be full of spirit” (SV9).
He also writes: “The leviathan of love (nahang-i-‘ishq)
swalloweth the master of reason (adíb-i-‘aql) and destroyeth the

At Dawn The Friend Came
lord of knowledge (labíb-i-dánish)” (SV10; Haft Vádí 101). He
refers to this concept in the following quotations from Sufi
literature: the story of Majnún seeking for Laylí in the dust
(SV6; see also ‘A††ar, Speech 295, lines 3288-91) and the following
couplet by Rúmí:
Love’s a stranger to earth and heaven too;
In him are lunacies seventy-and-two. (SV10; FV54)11
He also mentions love as madness in the Four Valleys through
two quotations:
Each moon, O my beloved, for three days I go mad;
Today’s the first of these — ‘Tis why thou seest me glad.
(Rúmí, qtd. in FV49)12
The story of Thy beauty reached the hermit’s dell;
Crazed, he sought the Tavern where the wine they buy
and sell.
The love of Thee hath leveled down the fort of patience,
The pain of Thee hath firmly barred the gate of hope as
well. (Sa‘dí qtd. in FV55-6; Chihár Vádí 148)
More details on this subject may be found in Savi, Towards the
Summit 112-5.
The lover is also described as dil-afgár, defined by Steingass
as “heart-sore, heart-broken” (531), that is he is in that spiritual
condition about which Bahá’u’lláh writes: “the food (ghidhá) of
them who haste to meet Thee is the fragments (qa†a‘átu) of their
broken hearts (ikbádi-him)” (PM154, sec.92, para.1; Munáját 106).

Ay az13 baráy-am futádih bi-har sú’í,14
Vay dar ráh-am gashtih asír-i-har dyár.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
O thou, who pinest for Me wherever thou art,
And wherever thou art, liest imprisoned for Me,
The lover suffers not only for the pains of his love, but also
for
the
hostility
of
his
fellow-beings,
perhaps
an
autobiographical hint. Wherever he goes, he is a prisoner (asír),
a description reminiscent of other words written by Bahá’u’lláh
about Himself: “At all times He was at the mercy of the wicked
doers. At one time they cast Him into prison, at another they
banished Him, and at yet another hurried Him from land to
land” (Súriy-i-Haykal: Queen Victoria 92, sec.1, para.177). He wrote
moreover in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán: “All this generation could offer
Us were wounds from its darts, and the only cup it proffered to
Our lips was the cup of its venom. On our neck We still bear
the scar of chains, and upon Our body are imprinted the
evidences of an unyielding cruelty” (KI190, para.208).

Gah bar páy hamí píchídih15 af‘í,
Gah bar gardan-at zanjír-i-sharar-bár.
Now an asp twisted at thy foot,
Now a rutilant chain at thy neck.
Also in this distich the metaphors seems to suggest events of
Bahá’u’lláh’s life. The af‘í, “A large venomous serpent; viper;
asp; basilisk” (Steingass 84), that is the asp around His foot, could
be a hint at His many enemies within the Bábí Community, in
the first place His half-brother Ya˙yá, about whom ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá wrote:
And still another of His trials was the hostility, the
flagrant injustice, the iniquity and rebellion of Mírzá
Ya˙yá. Although that Wronged One, that Prisoner, had
through His loving-kindness nurtured him in His own
bosom ever since his early years, had showered at every

At Dawn The Friend Came
moment His tender care upon him, exalted his name,
shielded him from every misfortune, endeared him to
them of this world and the next, and despite the firm
exhortations and counsels of His Holiness, the Exalted
One (the Báb) and His clear and conclusive warning; —
“Beware, beware, lest the Nineteen Letters of the Living
and that which hath been revealed in the Bayan veil
thee!” yet notwithstanding this, Mírzá Ya˙yá denied
Him, dealt falsely with Him, believed Him not, sowed
the seeds of doubt, closed his eyes to His manifest
verses and turned aside therefrom. Would that he had
been content therewith! Nay, he even attempted to shed
the sacred blood (of Bahá’u’lláh) and then raised a great
clamor and tumult around him, attributing unto
Bahá’u’lláh malevolence and cruelty towards himself.
What sedition he stirred up and what a storm of
mischief he raised whilst in the Land of Mystery
(Adrianople)! At last, he wrought that which caused the
Day-Star of the world to be sent an exile to this, the
Most Great Prison, and sorely wronged, and in the West
of this Great Prison He did set. (WT4-5)
Bahá’u’lláh wrote moreover about his faithless relatives and
companions in one of His Tablets to Maryam: “O Maryam!
From the land of ˇá (Teheran), after countless afflictions, We
reached ‘Iráq at the bidding of the Tyrant of Persia, where,
after the fetters of Our foes, We were afflicted with the
perfidy of Our friends. God knoweth what befell Me
thereafter!” (qtd. in GPB118, sec.7, para.31). He wrote in another
passage: “I advance with My face set towards Him Who is the
Almighty, the All-Bounteous, whilst behind Me glideth the
serpent (˙ubáb)” (Lawh-i-Haykal: Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh 132, sec.1, para.265;
Áthár 1:85).
The sharar-bár, “raining sparks, scintillating” (Steingass 741),
that is rutilant chain could be a remembrance of the terrible

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
chains that were put at His neck in the Síyáh-Chál. He wrote
about them:
Shouldst thou at some time happen to visit the dungeon
of His Majesty the Sháh, ask the director and chief jailer
to show thee those two chains, one of which is known as
Qará-Guhar, and the other as Salásil. I swear by the
Daystar of Justice that for four months this Wronged
One was tormented and chained by one or the other of
them. (ESW 77)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes Bahá’u’lláh’s sufferings in those days
as follows:
... in Mázindarán, the blessed feet of the Abhá Beauty
(may my life be offered up for His loved ones) were so
grievously scourged as to bleed and be sore wounded.
His neck also was put into captive chains and His feet
made fast in the stocks. In every hour, for a period of
fifty years, a new trial and calamity befell Him and fresh
afflictions and cares beset Him. One of them: after
having suffered intense vicissitudes, He was made
homeless and a wanderer and fell a victim to still new
vexations and troubles. In ‘Iráq, the Day-Star of the
world was so exposed to the wiles of the people of
malice as to be eclipsed in splendour. (WT 4)
Ay na-khuftih yik shabí bar16 bistar-i-rá˙at,
Vay na-yásúdih damí az fitniy-i-rúzgár.
O thou, who didn’t spend a night on a bed of ease, O thou
Who didn’t find a moment of relief from the woes of the
world.
This description of the lover, sleepless and afflicted by the
travails of the world, beside meeting traditional poetical

At Dawn The Friend Came
criteria, seems a biographical reference to the ascetic life led by
Bahá’u’lláh in those days of isolation. He wrote about those
days: “Many a night We had no food for sustenance, and many
a day Our body found no rest” (KI250, para.278). And in one of
His Tablets to Maryam He wrote: “There was not a night during
which I rested in a safe place, not a morning in which I lifted
My head from My couch with ease” (“Law˙-i-Maryam” 357, v.6).
Finally He wrote in His Tablet to Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh: “How
many the nights which found the beasts of the field resting in
their lairs, and the birds of the air lying in their nests, while this
Youth languished in chains and fetters with none to aid or
succour Him!” (Lawh-i-Haykal: Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh 97, sec.1, para.187)
Zátash-i-áh-at17 kabid-i-‘álam súkht,
Vaz dard-at chashm-i-jahán átash-bár.
The heart of the world was burnt by the fire of thy wails,
The eye of the universe was consumed by the fire of thine
affliction.
The locution kabid-i-’álam súkht, that literally means “the
world burnt its liver out,” has been translated “the heart of the
world was burnt.” In the Islamic world liver is the seat of
passions, with love among them, whereas the heart is the seat of
mystical
knowledge.
Therefore
the
Persian
kabid-liver
corresponds to the English heart (see Savi 107, Table 5, and 108). The
locution jigar súkhtan bar kasí is explained by Steingass as “to
feel pity for, to commiserate” (Steingass 366). Since jigar and
kabid are synonyms, kabid súkhtan has the same meaning as
jigar súkhtan. Therefore this locution could mean that the heart
of the world was moved to pity. The image of the universe
sympathizing with the lover for his pains of love is one of the
clichés of Persian mystical poetry. Bahá’u’lláh writes in one of
his Tablets to Maryam:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
I roamed the wilderness of resignation (ßa˙rá-háy-i-
taslím), traveling in such wise that in My exile every eye
wept sore over Me, and all created things shed tears of
blood (khún-i-dil) because of My anguish (kurbat). The
birds of the air were My companions and the beasts of
the field My associates. (qtd. in GPB120, sec.7, para.35; in
Ishráq Khávaríh, Risálih 367)
He also writes elsewhere: “Should any one incline his inner ear,
he would hear the cry and the wailing of all created things over
what hath befallen Him Whom the world hath wronged” (PM285,
sec.176, para.44).
Gah †awq bi-gardan chú ‘abdí18 ‘áßí,
Gah bá silsilih burdand hamí bar sar-i-bázár.
Now is placed in fetters thy neck, as if thou werest a
rebellious
Servant, now, bound in chains, thou art hurried to the
bazaar,
Also the words of this distich seem a biographical reference
(see above). Bahá’u’lláh was repeatedly put in chains. He wrote:
“At one time I found Myself on the heights of mountains; at
another in the depths of the prison of ˇá (ˇihran), in chains and
fetters” (ESW78).
Gah ma.zlúm futádí tú19 bi-dast-i-.zálim
Gah dar sijn-i-jafá basí layl-u nahár.
Now thou art wronged in the hands of the oppressor,
Now thou spendest days and nights in the prison of
cruelty.

At Dawn The Friend Came
This distich has already been commented upon.
Az dard-at dil-i-dústán dar átash,
Vaz áh-at rukh-i-‘áshiqán tírih-u tár.
Thy pains set on fire the hearts of the friends,
Thy groans darkened the faces of the lovers.
This distich conveys concepts similar to those expressed in
verse 5. Likewise Bahá’u’lláh wrote in one of His Tablets to
Maryam: “Were thou to examine carefully the matter, the eyes
of might are weeping behind the Tabernacle of sinlessness and
the people of glory are moaning in the precincts of loftiness.
Unto this beareth witness the Tongue of truth and glory”
(“Law˙-i-Maryam” 357-8, v.8).
Chashm-at az khún yáqút bar-afshánad,
Zán gashtih hamí chashm-i-shafaq gulnár.
Thine eyes shed rubies of blood, whereby
The eye of the twilight hath turned pomegranate red.
This distich has already been commented upon.
Bá ín hamih mi˙nat kih bi-ráh-am dídí,
Sard na-gashtí-u na-nálídí zár.
After so many toils thou met in My path,
Thou doest not cool down, nor bitterly regret.
Bahá’u’lláh hinted very often at His unswerving love in His
Writings. He wrote for example:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
... how numerous the days whereon I had to face the
assaults of the peoples against Me! At one time I found
Myself on the heights of mountains; at another in the
depths of the prison of ˇa (ˇihrán), in chains and
fetters. By the righteousness of God! I was at all times
thankful unto Him, uttering His praise, engaged in
remembering Him, directed towards Him, satisfied with
His pleasure, and lowly and submissive before Him.
(ESW 78-79)
The originality of the description of the Beloved in this verse
has been previously commented upon (see above Love).
Az chíst kih imshab tú na-yásá’í,
Vaz chíst kih gashtih badan-at chún tár.
Wherefore art thou restless tonight? Wherefore
Hath thy body become as thin as a thread?
Sleeplessness and loss of weight are signs of love. As to
sleeplessness, according to the Sufi masters
whenever the heart of God’s chosen one is stolen away
by the beauty of the face of the Eternal and is burned by
the fire of love, such a one cannot sleep at night, being
overcome with a state of insomnia.
The gnostic said, “The lover’s insomnia comes from the
building up [accelerated alternation] of losing and
finding.” (Nurbakhsh 12:9)
In this vein Rúmí writes:
Love (‘ishq) took away sleep (khwáb) from me — and
love takes away sleep, for love purchases not the soul
and mind (ján-u khirad) for so much as half a

At Dawn The Friend Came
barleycorn.
(Mystical
Poems
102,
no.119,
v.1;
Díván,
“Ghazalyát,” no.919)
As to weight loss, Rúmí writes:
I am like a chalice (sághar), my heart is bloody and my
body emaciated. (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.478)
In this vein Bahá’u’lláh describes in the Seven Valleys “a
lover who had sighed for long years in separation from his
beloved, and wasted in the fire of remoteness”:
From the rule of love, his heart was empty of patience,
and his body weary of his spirit; he reckoned life
without her as a mockery, and time consumed him away.
How many a day he found no rest in longing for her;
how many a night the pain of her kept him from sleep;
his body was worn to a sigh, his heart’s wound had
turned him to a cry of sorrow. (SV13)
This distich presents clear biographical references. It is
reminiscent of the following words by Bahá’u’lláh: “During the
days I lay in the prison of ˇihrán ... the galling weight of the
chains and the stench-filled air allowed Me but little sleep”
(ESW22).
Shab ghal†í-u píchí tú hamí bar bálín,
Ghal†ídan-u zárí20 kih gazíd-ash már.
In the night thou tossest and turnest on thy couch,
Thou tossest and groanest, as bitten by a snake.
The sleeplessness of the lover has already been explained
while commenting upon verse 11. Bahá’u’lláh uses the locution
“as bitten by a snake” in a later Writing:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Recall thou to mind My sorrows, My cares and
anxieties, My woes and trials, the state of My captivity,
the tears that I have shed, the bitterness of Mine
anguish, and now My imprisonment in this far-off land.
God, O Muß†afá, beareth Me witness. Couldst thou be
told what hath befallen the Ancient Beauty, thou
wouldst flee into the wilderness, and weep with a great
weeping. In thy grief, thou wouldst smite thyself on the
head, and cry out as one stung by the sting of the adder.
(GWB118, sec. LXII, para.1)
Aknún zi-chih mí-píchí-u mí-nálí
Vaz chih paríd-at-rang21 hamí az rukhsár.
Why doest thou turn and moan, now?
Why doeth thy face turn pale?”
Like sleeplessness and weight loss, also paleness is a typical
cliché of Persian mystical poetry. Nurbakhsh explains: “The
‘pallid face [zard-i-rú’í]’ represents the suffering and anxiety
experienced on the Path” (2:89n1). He explains moreover:
“Yellowness is said to represent weakness in the travelling of
the Path” (4:53). Rúmí writes:
In the hands of love (‘ishq) who is not pale (zard), weak
(nazár) and thin (lághar)? (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.478)
And Óafi.z says:
The yellow (grief-stricken) face (rúy-i-zard), and the grief-
stained sigh are
For lovers, the evidence of affliction. (Díván 827,
“Ghazalyát,” no.503, v.4; Diván 467, “Ghazalyát,” no.403, v.4)
Saná’í explains:

At Dawn The Friend Came
The sun is ashamed before Her beauty;
The yellowness of its face displays the pain of its heart.
(qtd. in Nurbakhsh 4:53)
Bahá’u’lláh also uses this image in other Writings. He wrote
in the Seven Valleys: “He hath bound a myriad victims in his
fetters, wounded a myriad wise men with his arrow. Know that
every redness in the world is from his anger, and every paleness
(zardí) in men’s cheeks (rukhsár) is from his poison” (SV10-1;
Haft Vádí 102). In this poem He writes:
Do You wonder about Your lover’s plight?
You’ll discover its secrets in the pallor of his face (zardíy-
i-rukhsár). (v.17)
Guftam: “Ay Yár, Ay ˇábíb-i-ján-am,
Chih ‘ajab kih22 ámadí bar sar-i-bímár.
I answered: “O Friend! O Healer of my soul!
How is it that Thou camest to this sick bed?
The lover, aware of his abasement in front of the Beloved, is
amazed by His morning visit. The Beloved’s visit at the bedside
of the lover has been explained while commenting upon verse
12. In Sufi poetry, the Beloved is cruel, but He also is a †abíb,
“a physician, doctor” (Steingass 810), that is a healer. ‘A††ár
writes:
bestow a remedy [darmán] upon him who is so
sorrowful out of love. (“Il diletto degli amanti” 100, v.133)
Saccone remarks: “In Persian poetry the beloved is often called
“the healer” (tabib), the only one who finds the “remedy”
(darmân) for the pain or sickness of the lover” (“Il diletto degli
amanti” note 119n49). Saccone writes moreover in this regard:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
the poet-lover knows that the friend can hurt him, but
he also is the only remedy that can heal the wounds of
love. Therefore the beloved also wears the mask of the
physician, in a verse reminiscent of the famous “love,
that to no loved one remits his fee:”
Who became a lover and did not see the beloved in his
condition?
O thou, I do not see any pain in thee, or else I would
also see the healer
...
In the name of God, ask one day to my healer
When will this sick one have a nicer look?
In conclusion, the beloved sung by Hâfez wields full
power, he kills and at the same time quickens, makes the
lover sick and heals him, is cruel and bloodthirsty, but
he alone appeases the anguish of the lovers. (Maestro 216)
Bahá’u’lláh uses the metaphor of the Friend, God, as a Healer
in other Writings as well. For example, he writes in the Persian
Hidden Words: “The healer (†abíb) of all thine ills is
remembrance of Me” (no.32; Kalimát-i-Maknúnih 443). And He
turns to God in prayer saying: “O Thou Who art most dear to
the hearts that long for Thee, and the Healer (†abíb) of the souls
that have recognized Thee” (PM299, sec.178, para.9; Munáját 200).
Ay az rúy-at shams-i-samá’ mushriq
Vay az ‘ishq-at nafs-i-sukún bí-qarár.
O Thou, by Whose face the sun is enlightened in the sky,
O Thou, by Whose love the essence of peace is unsettled.
This verse has already been commented upon.

At Dawn The Friend Came
Ásmán dámán-i-gawhar zán girift
Tá kunad bar maqdam-i-‘izzat nithár.23
The sky has filled its skirt with pearls,
That it may lay it down at the feet of Thy Majesty.
This verse has already been commented upon.
Gar Tú az ˙ál-i-˙abíb-at pursí
Az zardíy-i-rukhsár shinú asrár.
Doest Thou wonder about Thy lover’s plight?
Thou wilt discover its secrets in the pallor of his face.
This verse continues the description of the sickness and
paleness of the lover of verse 13. Zard literally means yellow,
but, as Nicholson remarks, “yellow (zard) is the hue of paleness
in the East, as in Italy” (“Notes” 294nXXXVII.10). Rúmí writes in
the same vein:
Love has conquered the world, it has no colour.
But if it touches a body, that face turns yellow (zardí).
(Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.544, v.6)
Sirr-i-dil báshad zi áh-am mushtahar
Ramz-i-ján .záhir zi chashm-i-ashgbár.
My groans proclaim the secret of my heart;
My tears reveal the riddle of my soul.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The lover cannot be other but sorrowful. His groans reveal
his love, like his tears reveal the pains of his spirit. In this vein
Óafi.z writes:
To such a degree, I wept that every one who passed (by me),
When he beheld running the pearl of our tears, spake
saying: “This stream what is?” (Díván 79, “Ghazalyát,”
no.25, v.3)
Bahá’u’lláh writes in this vein: “My sighs, O my God, proclaim
the bitterness of mine anguish (balá’í), and the tears I shed
attest my love for Thee (˙ubbí)” (PM29, sec.26, para.1, Munáját 26).
Gar chih zi ‘ishq-at basí tír-i-jafá khúrdam
Ham gashtih24 asír-i-dast-i-kuffár.
In my love for Thee I received many an arrow
Of cruelty, I fell into infidel hands.
The lover hit by the cruel arrows (tír-i-jafá) of the Beloved is a
common image of Persian mystical poetry. For example Rúmí
writes:
Thou art the falconer of heaven. Hit my heart with Thine
arrow (tír).
If Thou hittest me with thy cruel arrow (tír-i-jafá), I am
defenceless as the earth. (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.1394,
v.16)
O friend, each word Thou utterest with Thy harp
Hits my troubled heart with a hundred cruel arrows (tír-i-
jafá). (Díván, “Rubá’yát,” part. 15)
Bahá’u’lláh used this image in other Writings: “The arrows
(as-sahám) that transfix us in Thy path are the ornaments of our
temples, and the spears (rama˙) which pierce us in our love for

At Dawn The Friend Came
Thee are as silk unto our bodies” (PM217, sec.130, para.2; Munáját
146). He has “fallen into the hands of the infidels (kuffár),” or,
as He wrote in a prayer: “Thou seest, therefore, O Thou Beloved
of the world, Him Who is dear to Thee in the clutches of such
as have denied Thee, and beholdest Thy heart’s desire under the
swords (suyúf) of the ungodly” (PM38, sec.32, para.3; Munáját 32).
We may find also in this verse biographical references.
Bahá’u’lláh described in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán the tribulations that
befell Him in that period: “a number of people who have never
inhaled the fragrance of justice, have raised the standard of
sedition, and have leagued themselves against Us. On every side
We witness the menace of their spears, and in all directions We
recognize the shafts of their arrows” (KI249, para.277).
Gah bi-kashand-am bi-sar-i-kúh-u dar dasht25
Gah bi-barand-am dar ma˙∂ar-i-fujjár.
I was dragged through mountains and plains,
I was drawn in front of the wicked.
This distich has already been commented upon.
Gar gúyam án-chih bi-dídam az ‘ishq-at,
Al-battih zabán bi-mánad az guftár.
Should I tell what I saw in my love for There,
My tongue would grow weary of speaking.
Bahá’u’lláh used a similar language also in other Writings to say
that His trials are so dire that no one can describe them. For
example:

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
The pen (qalam) is powerless to depict and the tongue
(lisán) faileth to describe the trials which We have
suffered. (Law˙-i-Ra’ís 177, sec.3, para.28; Alváh-i-Mubárakih 115)
Thou seest what hath befallen this Wronged One
(ma.zlúm) at the hands of them that have not associated
with Me, and who have arisen to harm and abase Me, in
a manner which no pen can describe, nor tongue
recount, nor can any Tablet sustain its weight. (ESW35;
Law˙-i Mubárak-i-kha†áb 26)
I beseech Thee by Him Who is Thy Most Great Name,
Who hath been sorely afflicted by such of Thy creatures
as have repudiated Thy truth, and Who hath been
hemmed in by sorrows which no tongue can describe.
(PM5, sec.3, para.1)
Thou beholdest my dwelling-place, and the prison into
which I am cast, and the woes I suffer. By Thy might!
No pen can recount them, nor can any tongue describe
or number them. (PM10, sec.8, para.1)
Líkin na-nálam az tígh-i-jafá-t,26 ay Dúst,
Dard-at-rá chú dil27 gíram hamí andar kinár.28
I don’t complain, O Friend, for Thy pitiless sword
And I cherish my pains for Thee as my own heart.
This distich does not meet only poetical exigencies, it also
expresses concepts that have been examined above: the lover is
ready to face every kind of pain and tribulation for his
Beloved’s sake.
Qa∂áy-at-rá chún ján gíram dar ághúsh,

At Dawn The Friend Came
Baláy-at-rá raván báshad kharídár.29
I embrace Thy decree with heart and soul,
My spirit yearns after Thy tribulations.
This verse has already been commented upon.
Ján rishtiy-i-˙ubb-i-Tú hamí na-gusilad,
Gar bi-burand-ash sar az khanjar-i-jarrár.
My soul won’t cut the lace of Thy love,
Should it be beheaded with a deadly blade.
The theme of this verse has been explained while commenting
upon verse 22.
Nah chunán bastam dil bi kham-i-gísúy-at
Kih shavad báz hamí tá Rúz-i-shumár.
I tied my heart to the curl of Thy tresses,
That it may not be unloosed till the Judgment Day.
The image of the hair of the Beloved is very common in
Persian poetry. Laleh Mehree Bakhtiar, an Iranian-American
Muslim author and clinical psychologist, writes:
The hair symbolizes the Divine Essence in Its aspect of
the Hidden, the Inward; it is the symbol of multiplicity
which hides unity. Multiplicity conceals the non-
existence of things and thereby veils the Heart; but at
the same time as the hair veils, it attracts Divine Grace
and Divine Gifts. Like the face, the hair is veiled because
of the sacred power it holds within itself. (68)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Persian poets describe the hair through several words. In this
poem Bahá’u’lláh uses the locution kham-i-gísú. The word gísú
means “A ringlet of hair, a forelock, a sidelock, curl” (Steingass
1109). Among the Sufis
This metaphor symbolizes the way of search for Union
and Oneness with Absolute Beauty and the Divine
Visage, to which terms such as “the invisible world,”
“the unbreakable chord” (‘orwat’ol wothqâ), and the
“strong rope” (˙abl al-matin)” also allude. “And hold
fast, all of you together, to the rope of God ...” (Koran,
111:103). (Nurbakhsh 1:111)
‘A††ár writes in this regard:
In expectation of the musk (mushk) shed from the locks
(gísú) which frame the sides of her face,
A hundred eyes looked eagerly upward,
fixing their gaze upon the lofty heavens. (qtd. in
Nurbakhsh1:111; Díván, “Qaßídih,” no.1, v.49)
As to the word kham, it means “Crooked, bent, twisted,
curled, curved; a curl, knot, ringlet ... that part of a noose
which encircles the neck” (Steingass 473). In the Sufi world the
locution kham-i-zulf, very similar to kham-i-gísú,
represents a Divine mystery of an abstruse and
enigmatic nature, encountered by the mystic on the
Way, and which he succeeds in surmounting only after
great hardship. In this instance, it is absolutely necessary
that the traveller be guided by a Perfect Master, lest he
go astray. (Nurbakhsh 1:79)
Óafi.z writes in this vein:
Thou spakest saying: “O Óáfi.z! Thy distraught heart is
where?

At Dawn The Friend Came
In the meshes of that curl of tresses (kham-i-gísú), (it) we
have placed (Díván 700, “Ghazalyát,” no.413, v.14; Diván,
“Ghazalyát” 379, no.365, v.9)
‘A††ár writes:
My heart (dil-am) on your tresses’ twists (zulf bi-kham)
Was caught, not just my heart,
My soul (ján) too, in the same crux
Became entangled. (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.253, v.1; qtd. in
Nurbakhsh 1:80)
Bahá’u’lláh uses the same locution kham-i-gísú in another poem:
Marvel not that the lover hath fallen into His snare
(kamand),
The necks of the Monarchs of the Spirit are caught in His
wavy locks (kham-i-gísú). (Bi-Jánán ján hamí dar-yáft rah,
verse 6, provisional translation by the author and Ms. Mardani)
The covenant of love that binds the lover to his Beloved is
eternal. The lover has tied his “heart to the curl of ... [His]
tresses (kham-i-gísú),” so “that it may not be unloosed till the
Judgment Day (rúz-i-shumár).” This covenant implies that the
lover entirely forgets his self, and yearns to make whatever his
Beloved wishes. Historical examples of people who betrayed
this covenant of love are, in the Christian Dispensation, Judas
Iscariot and, in the Bahá’í Dispensation, Mu˙ammad ‘Alí.
Man án nay-am kih pícham sar az ‘ishq-at,
Gar bi-kushand-am bi-damí sad hizár.30
Should I be slaughtered a myriad times,
Still I wouldn’t rebel against Your love.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
This verse has already been commented upon.
Shab dar átash-i-gham zán31 mí-súzam,
Kih na-dídí sar-am, ay Dúst,32 hamí bar sar-i-dár.
In the night season I burn in the fire of anguish,
‘Cause my head hasn’t been, O Friend, hung on the gallows.
The theme of the gallows (dár), a sign of ignominy in the
Muslim world, is introduced in this verse. Bausani explains that
the wish to die on the gallows, that is ignominiously, for the
Beloved “is not the “redemption” or expiation or more or less
hypothetical sins in the Christian sense but is felt primarily as
“supreme ignominy” and therefore, in the metaphysical
capsizing of values, as supreme glory and joy” (Religion in Iran
279). This image falls within the malámatí vein of Persian
mystical poetry, which also comprises the image of wine and
drunkenness, immoral in the Islamic world that interdicts any
kind of alcoholic beverage.33 As to the wish to die for the
Beloved, it has been discussed while commenting upon verses 22
and 24.
Tá bí-jasad bi-bínam Rúy-at, ay A˙ad,
Bí-˙ijáb áyam bar-at, ay Kirdigár.34
I come with no veil before Thee to behold, O Almighty,
Thy face beyond any mortal frame, O Unique One.
This distich has been already commented upon.
A†yár-i-Baqá bi-áshyán bar-gashtand,
Má mándih dar ín turáb basí dhalíl-u khwár.35

At Dawn The Friend Came
The Birds of Eternity returned to their nest,
We remained downtrodden and wretched on earth.
This distich has already been commented upon.
Vaqt-i-án ámad kih bi-farází ‘alam.36
Ay Sirr-i-Khudá, dastí az Ghayb bar ár.
The time hath come for the banner to be hoisted.
O Mystery of God! Draw forth Thy hand from the
Unseen,
Bahá’u’lláh’s discouragement as voiced in verse 30 has lasted
for just a verse. In distich 30 the Poet shows once again the
courage and strength that characterized Him throughout His
life. This distich also has strong mystical connotations. The
first hemistich is a call to revelation:
The time hath come for the banner (‘alam) to be hoisted.
The call continues in the second hemistich,
O Mystery of God! Draw forth Your hand from the Unseen
(Ghayb)
with its allusion to the white hand outstretched by Moses, that
has already been commented upon. As to the raising of His
standard, He wrote later on: “He it is at Whose bidding the
standard (ráyat) of the Most Exalted Word hath been lifted up
in the world of creation, and the banner of “He doeth
whatsoever He willeth” raised amidst all peoples” (ESW1; Law˙-i
Mubárak-i-kha†áb 1).
Tá rahání37 khákyán-rá Tú38 zi39 khák,
Ham zidá’í40 záyiniy-i-dil zangár.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
That Thou mayest discharge the mortals from their clay,
And cleanse the mirrors of their hearts from their rust.
As the Beloved will manifest Himself to humankind, He will
discharge all the mortals (khákyán) from their clay, khák,
defined by Steingass as “Earth, dust, soil, mould, dirt ... the
earth as element; the grave; anything of little value, or useless”
(Steingass 440), or, as Bahá’u’lláh wrote later on: “He, in truth,
hath offered up His life as a ransom for the redemption of the
world” (GWB315, sec. CXLVI, para.1). He will “cleanse the mirrors
of their hearts (áyniy-i-dil) from their rust (zangár),” that is
from “the obscuring dust (ghubárát-i-tírih) of all acquired
knowledge, and the allusions of the embodiments of satanic
fancy” (KI192, para.213; KMI149). He will “cleanse the mirrors
(mirát) of ... [human] hearts from the dross of the world
(dunyá) and all that is therein, that they may reflect the
resplendent light of God” (Súriy-i-Mulúk 210, sec.5, para.57, Súratu’l-
Mulúk 52). The image of the human heart as a mirror may be
found in a number of poems by Rúmí who writes:
The soul (ján) resembles a clear mirror (á’íniy-i-ßáfí); the
body (tan) is dust (gard) upon it ... (Selected Poems
236nXIII.15; Díván, “Tarjí‘át,” no.21, v.8)
It may be also found in the Seven Valleys where Bahá’u’lláh
writes:
A pure heart is as a mirror (á’ínih); cleanse it with the
burnish of love and severance from all save God, that
the true sun may shine within it and the eternal morning
dawn. Then wilt thou clearly see the meaning of
“Neither doth My earth nor My heaven contain Me, but
the heart of My faithful servant containeth Me.” And
thou wilt take up thy life in thine hand, and with infinite
longing cast it before the new Beloved One. (SV21-22; Haft
Vádí 113)

At Dawn The Friend Came
Ham Tú zi qayd-i-ín41 jahán bi-rahán,
ˆn jumlih muhájarín-u42 anßár.
From the shackles of this world, O Thou,
Release all these pilgrims and companions.
The divine Revelation delivers all men “from the narrow
confines of ... [their] prison in this gloomy plane” (GDM49,
para.67), releases “the necks of men from chains (salásil) and
fetters (a†náb),” and causes “them to turn, with sincere faces,
towards His face, Who is the Mighty, the Bounteous” (Súriy-i-
Haykal: Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh 133, sec.1, para.268; Áthár 1:85). As to “pilgrims
and companions” the locution has already been explained.
Bar sar-ishán nih az táj-i-qabúl43 tájí,
Bar haykal-ishán bar-band zi ˙ubb44 zunnár.
Attire their heads with the crown of acceptance,
Gird up their temples with the girdle of love.”
The first hemistich has already been commented upon. As to
the image of the crown in the first hemistich, the image “the
crown of acceptance (táj-i-qabúl)” falls within the symbolism
of royalty often associated with the worlds of God. The
Manifestation of God is often described as a Sovereign and all
such symbols of royalty, as the reign, the throne, the sceptre,
the crown, the ring, the treasuries, the court, etc., are
associated with Him. Bahá’u’lláh wrote in two of His prayers:
“O God, my God! Attire mine head with the crown of justice,
and my temple with the ornament of equity” (ESW12-13); and:
“Attire my head with the crown of martyrdom, even as Thou
didst attire my body with the ornament of tribulation before all
that dwell in Thy land” (PM20, sec.17, para.1). As to the locution

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
the “girdle of love (˙ubb zunnár),” the highest form of love is
one’s love for the Manifestation. Bahá’u’lláh wrote: “The
essence of love (˙ubb) is for man to turn his heart to the
Beloved One, and sever himself from all else but Him, and
desire naught save that which is the desire of his Lord” (Aßl-i-
Kullu’l-Khayr 155; Majmú’ih 92, para.6).
The motif of the zunnár is usually part of the malámatí vein.
Browne writes that the zunnár “(Zonarium), regarded by the
Muslim poets as the symbol of misbelief, represents the Kushtí,
or “Kosti,” of the Zoroastrians, the sacred thread of the
Brahmins, and presumably the cord worn round the waist by
Christian monks” (Literary History 3:342n1). Bausani explains that
the zunnár is “the mark of heresy non-Muslims wore” (Religion in
Iran 268). Óafi.z specifically writes, in a malámatí vein, that he
wears the zunnár under his frock:
A darvish garment (dalq), I had; and it concealed a hundred
faults:
For wine (may) and the minstrel (mu†rib), the khairka
(khirqih)45 was pawned; and the mystical cord
(zunnár) (of a hundred faults) remained. (Díván 341,
“Ghazalyát,” no.177, v.3; Díván 186, no.178, v.9)
However, Nurbakhsh writes: “In Sufi terminology, the
cincture indicates strength and steadfastness of service,
integrity of inner and outer being, adherence to the way of
certitude, and service to the Master. It also alludes to the
girdling of one’s loins in the service of God” (3:238). The Sufi
poet Mahmúd Shabistarí (ca.1288–ca.1339) writes in this vein in
his Garden of Mystery (Gulshan-i-Ráz): “The tying of the belt
signifies service and obedience” (158, v.881).
Bas kun, Darvíshá, zín bísh ma-zan nish46
Kuftád sharar hamí az ín47 guftár.

At Dawn The Friend Came
That’s enough, O Dervish, don’t torment us any longer,
‘Cause many sparks have fallen from these words.48
This poem, like others of His poems, ends with a call to
silence. The same formula, “enough (bas kun),” is also used by
Rúmí. For example, he ends a ghazal as follows:
How long will you essay to describe Him? For He comes
not within description; Make enough (bas kun), that I
may ride over my commotion. (Mystical Poems 1:60, no.66,
v.13; Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.543, v.13)
He writes moreover:
Enough (bas kun), why are you so attached to words?
Love (‘ishq) has many expressions (bayán) that transcend
any utterance. (Díván, “Ghazalyát,” no.410, v.13)
This distich may hint at the fact that the time had not yet
arrived when He could announce His Divine Mission. And the
sentence “Many sparks (sharar) have fallen from your
discourse” may also mean that the words He had already written
and partly spread among His Sufi admirers, could have kindled
a premature fire, revealing His true identity as a Manifestation
of God in a time when people was not ready to receive the
revelation of His Word. As He later wrote, “a spark (jidhvih)
of the fire of Thy love (mu˙abbat) is enough to set ablaze a
whole world” (PM244, sec.153, para.1; Munáját 165).
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Attár, Faridu’d-Dín. The Conference of the Birds. Translated with
an introduction by Akkham Darbandi and Dick Davis. Penguin,
1984.
———. “Il diletto degli amanti,” in [‘Attâr] La Rosa e l’Usignolo 87-
115.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
———. [‘Attâr] La Rosa e l’Usignolo. Ed. Carlo Saccone. Roma:
Carocci, 2003.
———. The Speech of the Birds, Man†iqu’†-ˇair of Farídu’d-Dín
‘Attár, presented by Peter Avery. Cambridge, UK: The Islamic
Texts Society, 1998.
The Bahá’í World. An International Record. 1926-1998 vol. 9, 1940-
1944. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1945, reprint 1981.
Bahá’u’lláh. Ad‘íyyiy-i-˙a∂rat-i-Ma˙búb [Prayers of Bahá’u’lláh].
Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt, Bahá’í Year 76.
Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
———. Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá: Kitáb-i-Mubín, vol.1. 3rd edn. Dundas,
Ontario: Institute for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 1996.
———. Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
129 B.E.(1972–73).
———. Bi-Jánán ján hamí dar-yáft rah, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idih
4:176-8.
———. But-i-má ámad bá ba††í-u bádih, in Khávarí, Má’idih 4:188-92.
———. Chihár Vádí, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3, pp.140-57.
———. Haft Vádí, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3, pp.92-137.
———. ‘Ishq az Sidriy-i-A‘lá ámad, in Khávarí, Má’idih 4:179-80.
———. Ishráqát (Splendours), in Tablets, pp.101-35.
———. Jawáhiru’l-Asrár, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3, pp.4-88.
———. Kalimát-i-Maknúnih, in Ad‘íyyih, pp.421-476.
———. Kitáb-i-Musta†áb-i-ˆqán. Reprinted from the original edition,
Egypt, 1934. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
———. Law˙-i-Fuád in Summons, pp.177-81.
———. Law˙-i-Óikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets, pp.137-52.
———. “Law˙-i-Maryam,” in Savi, Julio and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli.
“Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation,” in Lights of Irfan 8:357-62.
———. Law˙-i Mubárak-i-kha†áb bih Shaykh Mu˙ammad Taqí-yi
Mujtahid-i Ißfahání. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1982.
———. Law˙-i-Siyyid-i-Mihdíy-i-Dahájí, in Tablets 193-201.
———. Majmu‘iy-i-az Alvá˙-i-Jamál-i-Aqdas-i-Abhá kih ba’d az
Kitáb-i-Aqdas Názil Shudih [Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas]. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.

At Dawn The Friend Came
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Áthár-i Qalam-i A‘lá [Collected Letters of
Bahá’u’lláh], vol. 30, Tehran: Iran National Bahá’í Archives
Private Printing (INBA) Private Printing, 1976; vol. 36, Teheran:
Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA) Private Printing, 1977.
———. Mast-and bulbulán, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idih 4:194-6.
———. Munáját (Prayers and Meditations). Rio de Janeiro: Editora
Bahá’í–Brazil, 1981.
———. Múntakhabátí az Áthár-i-˙a∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1984.
———. Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idih 4:192-4.
———. Súratu’l-Mulúk: Az Alváh-i-Muqaddas-i-˙a∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh.
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Pakistan. Karachi:
Mashhúr Offset Press, n.d.
———. Súriy-i-Bayán (Tablet of the Utterance), in Gleanings, pp.150-
51, no.LXXVIII; pp.153-5, no.LXXX; pp.172-5, no.LXXXV.
———. Súriy-i-Damm, in Gleanings, pp.88-90.
———. Súriy-i-Haykal (Sura of the Temple), in Summons, pp.3-137.
———. Súriy-i-Mulúk (Tablet of the Kings), in Summons, pp.185-235.
———. Súriy-i-Vafá (Tablet to Vafá), in Tablets, pp.181-91.
———. Tablet of the Maiden by Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Juan Cole.
Originally written as “Lawh-i-Huriyyih.” Available at
http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_huriyyih (accessed 14
November 2011).
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Trans.
Habib Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. Tajallíyát (Effulgences), in Tablets, pp.47-54.
Bakhtiar, Laleh. Sufi: Expressions of the Mystic Quest. London:
Thames and Hudson, 1976.
Bausani, Alessandro. “La letteratura neopersiana,” in Pagliaro and
Bausani: La letteratura Persiana, pp.133-563.
———. Religion in Iran. Translated by J.M. Marchesi. New York:
Bibliotheca Persica Press, 2000.
———. “Religione islamica,” in Le civiltà dell’Oriente, pp. 291-407.
La Bibbia di Geusalemme. 3d ed. Bologna: Centro Editoriale
Dehoniano, 1977.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Browne, Edward G. A Literary History of Persia. 4 vols. Bethesda,
Maryland: Iranbooks, 1997.
———. A Persian Anthology, being translations from the Persian by
Edward Granville Browne; with an introductory memoir by J. B.
Atkins; edited by E. Denison Ross. London: Methuen & Co., Ltd.,
[1927].
Chittick, William C. The Sufi Path of Knowledge: Ibn al-‘Arabí’s
Metaphysics of Imagination. Albany, NY: State University of New
York Press, 1989.
Le civiltà dell’Oriente. ed. Giuseppe Tucci, vol. 3. Roma: Casini, 1958.
De Fouchecour, Charles-Henri. “Ḳaßída. 2. In Persian,” in
Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Encyclopædia Britannica. Ultimate Reference Suite. DVD ed. 2004.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Óáfi.z, Shams ad-Dín. Díván-i-ash’ár. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=poet
&id=1 (accessed 26 August 2011).
———. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H. Wilberforce Clarke.
Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997. Available at
http://www.archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/thedivan02ha
fiuoft_djvu.txt (accessed 19 August 2011).
The Divan of Hafiz. Teheran: Aban Book Publication, 1387 [2008-
2009].
———. (Hâfiz). Il libro del coppiere. Edited by Carlo Saccone. Milan:
Luni Editrice, 1998.
Ishráq Khavárí, ‘Abdu’l-Óamid. ed. Má’iday-i-Ásmání. A compilation
of Bahá’í Writings. 9 vols; vol. 4. Teheran: Mu’assisa Millí
Ma†bu’át Amrí, 129 BE (1972).
———. Risáliy-i-Taßbí˙ va Tahlíl. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1982.
Koran, The. Translated from the Arabic by John Meadows Rodwell.
Introduction by George Margoliouth. London: Everyman’s
Library, 1987.
Krenkow, Fritz Johann Heinrich and Gérard Lecomte. “Ḳaßída. 1. In
Arabic,” in Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Lane, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. London and
Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863–93. CD-Rom edition

At Dawn The Friend Came
published by Thesaurus Islamicus Foundation. Cairo: Tradigital,
2003.
Lewis, Franklin D. “Poetry as Revelation: Introduction to
Bahá’u’lláh’s ‘Mathnavíy-i Mubárak’,” in Bahá’í Studies Review,
vol. 9 (1999/2000), pp.101-25.
———. “A Short Poem by ‘Darvísh’ Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh, Saqí az
ghayb-i baqá burqa’ bar afkan az idhár. An Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations,” in Lights of ‘Irfán,
vol. 2, pp.83-91.
Lights of Irfan. Papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and
Seminars. Evanston, IL: Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund,
2000–. [Wilmette, IL: ‘Irfán Colloquia, 2000–].
Nicholson Reynold A. “Notes,” in Rúmí, Selected Poems, pp.197-330.
Nurbakhsh, Javad. Sufi Symbolism: The Nurbakhsh Encyclopedia of
Sufi Terminology (Farhang-e Nurbakhsh), vol. 16. London:
Khaniqahi-Nimatullah Publications, 1986-2004.
Pagliaro, Antonino and Alessandro Bausani. La letteratura persiana.
Florence: Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
Perego, Marcello. Le parole del sufismo: Dizionario della spiritualità
islamica. Milan: Mimesis, 1998.
“Qasida,” in Encyclopaedia Britannica.
Rabbani, Rú˙íyyih, Amatu’l-Bahá Rú˙íyyih Khánum. “The Prayers of
Bahá’u’lláh,” in Bahá’í World, vol. 9, pp.792-802.
Ruhe, David. Robe of Light: The Persian Years of the Supreme
Prophet Bahá’u’lláh 1817–1853. Oxford: George Ronald, 1994.
Rúmí, Jalálu’d-Dín. Díván-i-Shams. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=book
&id=51 (accessed 26 August 2011).
———. The Mathnawí of Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí, edited from the oldest
manuscripts available: with critical notes, translation and
commentary by Reynold A. Nicholson ..., vols. 2, 4, 6.
Warminster, Wiltshire: Trustees of the E.J.W. Gibb Memorial
Series, 1926.
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 1: First Selection, Poems 1-200
translated from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press, 1968.
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 2: Second Selection, Poems 201-400
translated from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Edited by Ehsan
Yarshater. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1991.

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
———. Selected Poems from the Divani Shamsi Tabriz. Edited and
translated by Reynold A. Nicholson. London: Cambridge
University Press, 1898.
Saccone, Carlo. “Il diletto degli amanti. Note,” in ‘A††ár, La Rosa e
l’Usignolo, pp.116-24.
———. Il maestro Sufi e la bella cristiana. Poetica della perversione
nella poesia medievale. Roma: Carocci editore, 2005.
“Note,” in Il libro del coppiere 216-376.
———. “Sensi e soprasensi nei fragmenta di Hâfez, ovvero
introduzione a uno ‘stilnovista’ persiano,” in Il libro del Coppiere,
pp.14-66.
Saná’í, Abú’l-Majíd Majdú’d ibn-i-Ádam. Díván-i-Ash‘ár. Available
at http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&
obj=poet&id=28 (accessed 1 September 2011).
Savi, Julio. Towards the Summit of Reality. An introduction to
Bahá’u’lláh’s Seven Valleys and Four Valleys. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2008.
Savi, Julio and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli. “Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to
Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional Translation and
Commentary,” in Lights of Irfan, vol. 8 (2007), pp.323-62.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A
Phenomenological Approach to Islam. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press, 1994.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English
Dictionary Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met
with in Persian Literature. London & New York: Routledge, 1998.
Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Edited by M.
Momen. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol.5. Los
Angeles: Kalimát, 1988.
Wilberforce-Clark, Henri. “Preface,” in Óafi.z, The Díván-i-Háfiz,
pp. v-xliv.

NOTES
1 For a general introduction to this and other poems by Bahá’u’lláh see Julio
Savi, “Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian poems written before 1863,” in Lights of Irfan
13 (2012): 317-361.

At Dawn The Friend Came

2 (Sa˙ar ámad) A poem composed by Bahá’u’lláh. The Persian text used for
this provisional translation is published in Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-
Asmání 4:181-84. The poem also is published in Majmú‘iy-i-Áthár 30:163-
65. This translation has been done with the precious assistance of Ms.
Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli, lecturer of Persian language at the University of
Bologna, translated by Julio Savi.
3 For more details see Julio Savi, “A Hymn to Love (Sáqí bi-dih ábí).”
4 One of the four Arabic iambic metres.
5 See Julio Savi, “A Hymn to Love (Sáqí bi-dih ábí)” 4-6.
6 Koran 57:3.
7 See Julio Savi, “A Hymn to Love (Sáqí bi-dih ábí)” 24-5, provisional
translation by the author and Ms. Mardani.
8 Steingass defines muhájarín as “The fugitive followers of Muhammad from
Mecca to Madínah” (Steingass 1351). He defines anßár as “Assistants,
friends, helpers, auxiliaries, applied particularly to the citizens of Madína,
who assisted Muhammad when obliged to fly from Mecca” (Steingass 111).
9 Majmú‘ih 30 omits this invocation.
10 Majmú‘ih 30 writes kay at the beginning of the second hemistich.
11 Nicholson gives the following translation: “Love hath estrangement with
(is a stranger to) the two worlds: in it are two-and-seventy madness”
(M3:4719).
12 Nicholson gives the following translation: “Beyond doubt, O worshipful
one, I must become mad for three days at the beginning of every month.
// Hark, to-day is the first of the triduum: ‘tis the day of triumph (pírúz),
not (the day of) turquoise (pírúzá)” (Mathnavi 5:1888).
13 Majmú‘ih 30 omits az.
14 Majmú‘ih 30 writes súy.
15 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Gah páyat píchídih hamí.
16 Majmú‘ih 30 writes dar.
17 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Az átash-i-áh-at.
18 Majmú‘ih 30 writes ‘abídí.
19 Majmú‘ih 30 omits tú.
20 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Ghaltídan-i-zárí.
21 Majmú‘ih 30 writes rangí.
22 Majmú‘ih 30 omits kih.
23 Majmú‘ih 30 omits this verse.
24 Majmú‘ih 30 writes bi-ráh-at, that is “in Thy path.”
25 Majmú‘ih 30 writes bar kúh-u dar-u dasht, that is “through mountains,
wastes and plains.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 16

26 Majmú‘ih 30 writes jafáy-at.
27 Majmú‘ih 30 writes jám, that is “a cup.”
28 Majmú‘ih 30 writes gíram bi-kinár.
29 Majmú‘ih 30 omits this verse.
30 Majmú‘ih 30 omits this verse.
31 Majmú‘ih 30 writes az án.
32 Majmú‘ih 30 omits ay Dúst.
33 Marcello Perego, an Italian expert on Sufism, defines the malámatí Sufis
as “persons who observe a perfect religious conduct, but carefully hide
any ecstatic state (A†wál) and grace (Wáridát) which the One Being
bestows upon them; they dissemble their good deeds, so that none but
God may know them” (151). Most Sufis of the malámatiyya tried to
appear blameworthy in the eyes of common people.
34 Majmú‘ih 30 omits this verse.
35 Majmú‘ih 30 writes dar ín ‘álam-i-fání bas khár, that is “downtrodden in
this ephemeral world.”
36 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Ámad vaqtí kih ‘alam bi-farází.
37 Majmú‘ih 30 writes bi-rahání.
38 Majmú‘ih 30 omits Tú.
39 Majmú‘ih 30 writes az.
40 Majmú‘ih 30 writes bi-zidá’í.
41 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Ham az qayd-i-dú.
42 Majmú‘ih 30 writes Ay Dúst, Tú ín muhájirin-i-.
43 Majmú‘ih 30 writes táj-i-laqá, that is “the crown of Thy presence.”
44 Majmú‘ih 30 writes †ubbat.
45 ‘The Sufi cloak used to be the dress of the dervishes of a khánaqáh (Sufi
house). It was a patched garment given by the master to the disciple to
wear ... [it] was ... the sign of submission to God” (Nurbakhsh 5:32).
46 Majmú‘ih 30 writes nísh.
47 Majmú‘ih 30 writes bi-ján zín.
48 After this distich, Ishráq-Khávarí’s text, Má’idih 4:181-4, records the
word intihá...., “Termination, end, extremity; utmost point or limit,
summit; utmost extent; completion” (Steingass 105).

THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT OF THE SECRETARIAT
Bahá’í World Centre  •  P.O. Box 155  •  3100101 Haifa, Israel
Tel: 972 (4) 835 8358  •  Fax: 972 (4) 835 8280  •  Email: secretariat@bwc.org






24 July 2013




Transmitted by email:  secretariat@cdnbnc.org
The National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of Canada
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
The Universal House of Justice has recently completed a series of consultations on
the intellectual life of the Bahá’í community and its greater involvement in the life of society.
It has asked that we convey to you the following reply, further to your enquiry dated 3 March
2010 regarding the Association for Bahá’í Studies.

Since its establishment in North America in 1975, the Association for Bahá’í Studies has
made a valued contribution to the development of the Bahá’í community, and gradually, a network
of chapters or related structures devoted to promoting scholarly activity emerged in different parts
of the world.  Although the approach varied according to resources and circumstances in particular
countries, the Associations addressed a range of similar issues.  Among these were fostering
appreciation for the importance of personal study of the Revelation, correlating the teachings
with contemporary thought, defending the Cause, encouraging young believers in their academic
pursuits, attracting the interest and involvement of non-Bahá’í academics to the extent possible,
and providing a forum for Bahá’í academics to collaborate with one another, thereby helping to
raise capacity among those who participate within a wide range of disciplines and, particularly,
in specific fields associated more directly with the study of the Faith, such as history, the study
of religion, and translation.

In 1996, the Bahá’í world began to focus on a prodigious effort to better understand and
systematize its work of expansion and consolidation, of growth and community building.  Much
has been learned that has profoundly influenced the pattern of activity in which the community
is engaged.  The Association for Bahá’í Studies, meanwhile, continued to address certain areas
that are complementary to the activities unfolding within the recent series of Plans.  “There are
a host of elements that comprise Bahá’í community life, shaped over the decades, which must
be further refined and developed,” the House of Justice wrote in a message dated 27 December
2005.  It is timely, then, to reflect upon the many years of experience of the Association, the
coherence of its undertakings with the major areas of action in which Bahá’ís are engaged, and
the possibilities for the most productive avenues of endeavour in the future.

The House of Justice has observed that Bahá’ís will increasingly become involved in
the discourses of society within clusters where the process of growth rises in intensity and
at the national level, on topics selected by the National Assembly.  At the same time, it noted

The National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of Canada
24 July 2013
Page 2


that there are “a great many Bahá’ís who are engaged as individuals in social action and public
discourse through their occupations”.  Every believer has the opportunity to examine the forces
operating in society and introduce relevant aspects of the teachings within the discourses prevalent
in whatever social space he or she is present.  It is, perhaps, as a means to enhance the abilities of
the friends to explore such opportunities in relation to their scholarly interests that the endeavours
of the Association for Bahá’í Studies can be conceived.  Through the specialized settings it creates,
the Association can promote learning among a wide range of believers across a wide range of
disciplines.

Central to the effort to advance the work of expansion and consolidation, social action, and
the involvement in the discourses of society is the notion of an evolving conceptual framework, a
matrix that organizes thought and gives shape to activities and which becomes more elaborate as
experience accumulates.  It would be fruitful if the elements of this framework most relevant to the
work of the Associations for Bahá’í Studies can be consciously and progressively clarified.  In this
respect, it may be useful to give consideration to insights that have contributed to the community’s
progress:  the relationship between study and action, the need for focus, which is not to be confused
with uniformity, the challenge of fostering the capacity of individuals and accompanying others in
service, the dynamics of organic development, the institutional arrangements necessary to sustain
ever more complex patterns of activity, the coherence required among all areas of endeavour, and
sound relations among individuals, the community, and the institutions.  Perhaps the most important
of these is learning in action; the friends participate in an ongoing process of action, reflection,
study, and consultation in order to address obstacles and share successes, re-examine and revise
strategies and methods, and systematize and improve efforts over time.

One of the critical aspects of a conceptual framework that will require careful attention
in the years ahead is the generation and application of knowledge, a topic that those gathered
at the conference of the Association for Bahá’í Studies will explore in August.  At the heart
of most disciplines of human knowledge is a degree of consensus about methodology—an
understanding of methods and how to use them appropriately to systematically investigate
reality to achieve reliable results and sound conclusions.  Bahá’ís who are involved in various
disciplines—economics, education, history, social science, philosophy, and many others—are
obviously conversant and fully engaged with the methods employed in their fields.  It is they
who have the responsibility to earnestly strive to reflect on the implications that the truths
found in the Revelation may hold for their work.  The principle of the harmony of science
and religion, faithfully upheld, will ensure that religious belief does not succumb to superstition
and that scientific findings are not appropriated by materialism.  The friends who seek to excel
in scholarly activity will, of course, strive to live up to the high expectations set forth by
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Whatever the extent of their achievements, they are an integral
part of the community; they are not exempt from obligations placed upon any believer and, at
the same time, deserve the community’s understanding, forbearance, support, and respect.

As unity of thought around essential concepts emerges, the Association may find it useful
to explore fresh approaches with some simple steps that can grow in complexity.  Gradually,
those aspects of the conceptual framework pertaining to intellectual inquiry in diverse fields
will become clearer and grow richer.  For example, a number of small seminars could be held
to assist individuals from certain professions or academic disciplines to examine some aspect
of the discourse of their field.  Specific topics could be selected, and a group of participants with
experience could share articles, prepare papers, and consult on contemporary perspectives and

The National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of Canada
24 July 2013
Page 3


related Bahá’í concepts.  Special interest groups, such as philosophy or religious studies, could
have gatherings to intensify their efforts.  Periodic communications or follow-up meetings could
be arranged to increase the effectiveness of the participation of these groups of individuals in
aspects of the discourse in their chosen fields.  Focus could also be directed toward those areas
in the academic literature pertaining to the Faith that are ignored or dealt with in a misleading or
problematic manner.  In addition, existing activities, such as the hosting of a large conference,
may be reimagined.  Of course, continued exertions must be directed toward preparing and
disseminating articles, periodicals, and books.

One additional point will be central to these reflections.  The training institute is pivotal
in the development of the capacity of veteran and new believers for active involvement in the
work of expansion and consolidation.  Beyond this, the institute provides the structure for an
educational process with three distinct stages that will increasingly serve cohorts of individuals
from age six into adulthood.  In the experience offered by the institute, participants are not
merely presented with information, but through study of the courses and involvement in the
community-building activities in which their lessons find practical expression, they acquire
knowledge, skills, and spiritual insights that enable them to effectively foster personal and
social change.  Yet, whatever the scope of its curriculum and no matter how fundamental it
is to the progress of the community, involvement in the institute is only a part of a lifetime
of inquiry in which these friends will be engaged—one that will include exploration of the
Revelation as well as various disciplines of knowledge.  The upcoming youth conferences,
which will draw tens of thousands of young people, are representative of swelling numbers
who, shaped by the institute process at the dawning of their maturity, will set their footsteps
firmly in the path of learning and action that will extend throughout their academic studies
and beyond.  The House of Justice looks to rising generations of Bahá’ís to wholeheartedly
address a wide range of intellectual challenges, overcome all pitfalls and obstacles, and
render service for the betterment of the world.  In the decades ahead, then, a host of believers
will enter diverse social spaces and fields of human endeavour.  To this arena, pregnant with
possibilities, the Association for Bahá’í Studies can offer an important contribution.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat
cc: International Teaching Centre
Board of Counsellors in the Americas
Counsellor Ann Boyles
Counsellor Borna Noureddin
Counsellor Daniel Scott
National Assembly of Alaska
National Assembly of the United States

In Memoriam
Kamran Ekbal
1946-2014


Dr. Kamran Ekbal joined the initial group who started
annual sessions of the `Irfán Colloquium in 1993. During the
past twenty years, he actively participated at many annual
sessions of the colloquium in English, Persian and German and
presented a number of research papers in those languages on
various topics. He shall be remembered for his spirited
presentations at the Irfan Colloquium sessions.1 It should be
noted that the idea of initiating the `Irfán Colloquium project
was the result of a friendly conversation of Dr. Iraj Ayman
with Dr. Udo Schaefer and Dr. Kamran Ekbal that took place in

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
a sunny afternoon in the Summer of 1993 in the Garden of the
Landegg Academy.
Kamran Ekbal was born on 19 March 1946 in Beirut.
Paternally, he was a descendant of Muhammad Mustafa
Baghdadi, one of the 19 apostles of Bahá'u'lláh. On his mother's
side, he was a descendant of a noble family. His mother,
Moukarram al-Muluk Sarabandi-Ekbal, was a princess of Qajar
dynasty and was a direct descendant of the Qajar sovereign
Fath-Ali Shah. She arranged that Persian language remained the
spoken language of the family members who were living in an
Arab
environment,
Lebanon.
Thus
Kamran
felt
more
comfortable using Persian language.
In 1963 Kamran left Beirut for Germany when he was only
17 years old. He joined his two elder sisters who were already
studying in that country. Kamran first started studying
psychology in Graz (Austria) and Hamburg (Germany). It was in
Hamburg University that he changed his field of study to
history and Islamic studies. There, he had the opportunity to
become a lecturer of Arabic and Persian languages. He
continued his advanced studies at Cambridge and Keil
universities and in 1976 he received his Ph.D. degree and
continued working as a lecturer in Arabic and Persian
languages. In 1979, Kamran Ekbal became a faculty member at
Department of History at the Ruhr-University in Bochum
(RUB) and later served as the head of the Division of History of
the Near and Middle East until his retirement in 2011. During
this period he also was a visiting professor at the university of
Essen.
Dr. Ekbal delivered many lectures and made paper
presentations at academic conferences and congresses and
published many articles and research papers, both in Germany
and abroad. For more than ten years, he was an elected member
of the union of teaching staff (GEW) and supported the rights
of his colleagues at the university of Bochum.

In Memoriam
In 2006 he was diagnosed as having cancer and underwent
several surgeries as well as years of sustained chemo therapy.
But instead of giving up, he took strength and energy from his
family, his wife Huda Baghdadi-Ekbal and his three sons Basil,
Ramez and Cyrus, and continued teaching at the university and
presenting research papers at different conferences. Even at the
time when a healing was no longer in sight, he took on new
projects and delivered lectures in Germany and other countries.
Up to the last moment, he worked very intensely and used
his remaining strength on working to complete a volume
containing 160 Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh revealed in honour of
Muhammad Mustafa Baghdadi and another volume on the
memoires of Dr. Zia Baghdadi that hopefully will be published
soon. Finally, after a long struggle with cancer, he passed away
on 6 October 2014.2

NOTES
1 See Lights of `Irfán, Book Fifteen, pp 426-439 and Safíni-yi `Irfán, Book
Seventeen, pp 467-477 for some of his articles, some of which are online
at http://irfancolloquia.org/database/author/Ekbal .
2 This biographical summary is extracted from a short biography prepared by
Ramez Ekbal.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Abbreviations
used in this book:
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice
BA
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration
BK
Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf
BP
Compilation, Bahá’í Prayers
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
CC1
Compilation of Compilations, vol.1
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PDC
Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of The Báb
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Traveler’s Narrative
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-15
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes

Appendices
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-
i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet
of Visitation for Mullá Óusayn

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
(Súriy-i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati

Appendices
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manuchehr Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)

Appendices
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Babe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will
and Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
`Ali Nakhjavani

Appendices
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat
Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a
Letter from Shoghi Effendi
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh Basít al-
Haqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Lawh-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of ’Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amin Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Appendices
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Ali Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about
God
Moojan Momen
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness
Shahbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge
The New Atheism — A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Ali Nakhjavani

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the
Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Ali Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen, © 2013
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing
Celestial Fire: Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine
Fire (átar, á∂ar, átash) in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy — Theology — Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-
Ruz ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt.
Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of
Humanity During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen

Appendices
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910 — 5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fifteen, © 2014
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend: Reflection on Bahá’í
Scholarship as a Journey in the Valley of Search
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings
Part II: Deeper into the Writings
Ian Kluge
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious History
and the Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Origins of Creation
Farjam Majd
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society
Moojan Momen
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call: (mast-and bulbulán)
Julio Savi
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics
Foad Seddigh
Non-Involvement in Politics
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam:
Hushmand Fatheazam (1924-2013)
Amin Banani (1926-2013)
Mahboubeh Arjmand (d. 2013)

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions
(Oxford: George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to
Fifteen (2000–2014)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safíni-yi ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in Persian). Books One to
Seventeen (1998–2014)
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums:
Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in
German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í
Verlag, 2004–2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalíl-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun
is the Sun) (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy-i’-i-Ma’ání va Tafsír (The Wonders of
Inner Meanings and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic Verses and Islamic Traditions
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)

Appendices
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950 Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921 Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170 Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Lights of Irfán vol. 16
Vision and Objectives
The Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund was established in
1992 to honor Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-1941) and is
dedicated to promoting the scholarly study of the Bahá’í Faith.
Haj Mehdi Arjmand was a Persian scholar and teacher of the
Bahá’í Faith who became well known in Iran for his profound
knowledge of the Bible, Qur’an, and Bahá’í scriptures. The
primary activity of the Fund is sponsoring ‘Irfán Colloquium
and its publications.
In 2012, benefiting from the guidance received from the
Universal House of Justice, a management board was appointed
for this fund by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of the United States to function as a Bahá’í agency and sponsor
‘Irfán Colloquia, presently held in North America and Western
Europe in English, Persian and German languages.
The ‘Irfán Colloquium aims at promoting and supporting
systematic studies of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í
beliefs, the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith,
the interface of the Bahá’í Faith with intellectual schools of
thought and religious traditions, and looking at current
challenges in human society from the Bahá’í perspective. ‘Irfán
is a Persian word referring to mystical, theological and spiritual
knowledge.
As of June 2015 one hundred and thirty one sessions of
colloquia have been held. Papers in English presented or
received at the ‘Irfán Colloquia are annually published in a
series of volumes of the Lights of ‘Irfán.