THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-04-06

dear b ahá’í f riends,

and has asked us to respond as follows.

The house of justice is deeply concerned about the condition and needs

of the indigenous people . . . Although there is no doubt that increased ma-

terial resources would be helpful in resolving some of the problems which

exist there, they will not suffice to bring about a fundamental and enduring

solution. This can only come about through a realization that, at a basic level, the issues which you face are essentially spiritual, dealing with values, attitudes, and behavior. h ence, a spiritual solution is required.

The message of the bahá’í faith is that bahá’u’lláh has brought teach-

ings which are infused with a dynamic spiritual power with which the most formidable barriers can be overcome and the most sweeping transformation

effected. you, dear friends, who have been privileged to accept these divine

teachings in this day can best meet your own needs and those of the wider

society . . . by giving first priority to your endeavors to put the bahá’í teach-

ings into practice. Through your obedience to bahá’í law, your striving to

spiritualize your lives, and your continuing effort to deepen your under-standing of the holy writings, you can most appropriately respond to the 294.2

294.3

295.1

295.2

295.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

660needs of the present time. it is most important that you strive to make your

local Spiritual Assembly strong and effective, through its holding regular

meetings, its development of the skills of consultation, and through its at-

tention to pressing needs such as the holding of the Nineteen day feast, the

establishment of regular children’s classes, and the provision of guidance to bahá’í youth in their personal development and education.

As you persevere in such aims, you will find that your bahá’í community

will grow in unity and cohesion, and will attract the attention of those around you because of its shining qualities. on such a foundation you will

be able to embark on a wide range of social and economic development

projects which will improve the material life of the people, and solve the

problems to which you have drawn attention in your letter. your Spiritual

Assembly should not hesitate to turn to your National Spiritual Assembly

for guidance in carrying out your functions, and should make every possible

effort to implement the directions it gives you. in addition, the Auxiliary

board members assigned to serve your area are a most valuable source of advice and counsel.

you are assured of the prayers of the house of justice in the holy Shrines

on your behalf as you strive to carry out your duties.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

296

Release of Compilation on Internal Opposition

to the Bahá’í Faith

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]