To the Peoples of the World
A Baha'i Statement on Peace

Tothe
PeoplesttWorld
A Bahci'i Statement on
Peace
by the
Universal House of Justice

Baha'i Studies Publications, Ottawa, Ontario KIN 7K4
© 1986, 1987 by The Association for Baha'f Studies. All rights reserved
First Edition published 1986. Second Edition 1987
Printed in Canada
ISBN 0-920904-17-3

"World peace is not only possible but inevitable.
It is the next stage in the evolution of this planet . ... "
The Universal House of Justice

CONTENTS
Preface to the Second Edition .... ... . .. .... .......... ... . ix
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xiii
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xvii
I. To the Peoples of the World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II. Annotations
The Quest for Peace ................................ 29
Technology: For War or Peace? ................... .... . 34
The Spectre of War . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 7
Aggression and Human Nature ...... .. .. .............. 39
Collective Growth of Mankind . .. ........... ...... .. .. 43
The Transcendent Nature of the Human Spirit ........ .... 45
Progressive Revelation . .. .. . .. . .. ... ........ .... ..... 47
Role of Religion in Achieving World Peace ................ 50
The Golden Rule ...... .... ............ . . .. ...... . .. 53
Substitute Faiths .......... .. .... . .................. 5 5
Disarmament . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 7
Declarations and Conventions of the United Nations ....... 59
Barriers to Peace:
Racism ....................................... 62
Disparity between Rich and Poor ... . .. .. .... ........ 63
Unbridled Nationalism .... .................... .... 65
Religious Strife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Important Prerequisites for Peace:
Equality of the Sexes ... .......................... 68
Universal Education .............................. 69
Improved Global Communication . .............. .. ... 71
Unity: The Cardinal Prerequisite for Peace ............... 72
Towards a New World Order . ........ .... . . ........... 74
Consultation and Conflict Resolution ................... 77
The Politics of Transformation ......................... 81
The Experience of the Bahi'i Community .... . ..... . .... 83
Appreciations ..... ...... .... .......... ..... .... .. . .. 89
About the Contributors ......................... .. .... . 97
Select Bahi'i Bibliography ......................... .... 99
vii

PREFACE TO THE
SECOND EDITION
The first edition of To the Peoples of the World was widely studied dur-
ing the United Nations International Year of Peace, 1986. Over 32 ,000
copies of the book are now in circulation, and the contents have elicited
many positive responses. This edition is augmented by thoughtful and
challenging reviews by Professors Richard Falk and Lowell Livezey, both
of Princeton University. Each expresses important reactions to the Peace
Statement and also poses pertinent questions about the effectiveness of
the Baha'i peace program. As well, this edition contains excerpts from
the book, Unity: The Creative Foundation of Peace, by H. B. Danesh. The
excerpts explain the process of Baha'i consultation and conflict resolu-
tion and the Baha'i perspective on the politics of transformation.
Readers have responded with profound interest and depth of
understanding to various aspects of the Peace Statement, such as the con-
cept of the inevitability of peace, the nonviolent and cooperative
character of human nature, the need for a firm spiritual grounding of any
program seeking to transform human society into a peaceful world, and
the rejection of both materialism and fundamentalism as avenues for
human happiness and salvation. Furthermore, many reviewers have noted
the fundamental shift in attitude called for by the Baha'i concept of uni-
ty in diversity, with its emphasis on developing love and the acceptance
of world citizenship, which will, by definition, include patriotism
towards one's own country in the context of a united and highly diver-
sified world civilization.
The most poignant question raised about the Baha'i Peace Statement
is in respect to the Baha'i approach to the transformation of human socie-
ty from a violent and destructive world to a united and diversified culture,
characterized by justice, equality, creativity, and freedom. That such a
new world civilization can be created while we are daily faced with the
most virulent, disunited, and destructive types of racial, religious,
political, ideological and economic conflicts and prejudices seems, to
these reviewers, either an unattainable goal or, at best, achievable only
on a limited basis, possibly within the confines of the Baha'i community.
ix

At one level, the Baha'i Peace Statement deals with these weighty con-
cerns. Human unity is a condition closely and directly linked to the
growth of human society. This relationship is a circular one: the greater
the level of growth and maturity of human society, the greater the extent
and depth of its unity, and as more people and societies focus on creating
conditions of unity, the respective level of maturity will increase. Thus,
through the course of history we have been able to achieve remarkable
degrees of unity with respect to issues affecting racial, religious,
ideological, and political spheres of life. However, because these unities
have all been limited and exclusive in their nature, our tendency is to see
what they have not achieved. The Baha'i perspective of this process is
different, asserting that humanity has accomplished much in respect to
unity. Now we are ready to embark upon the final stage of this process
and to make these various forms of unity harmonized, all-embracing, and
universal. The present level of unity is a reflection of humanity's ages of
childhood and adolescence. With the advent of the age of maturity, world
unity will be inevitable.
In this respect, humanity's most remarkable achievement involves the
unity of scientific reality. Humanity has acquired the necessary qualities
of objectivity, detachment, and fairmindedness with respect to new
scientific discoveries, so that dogmatism, subjectivity, and prejudicial at-
titudes have largely been removed from the areas of science and scien-
tific enquiry.
Humanity's present challenge is to apply the same principles and ap-
proaches to religion and spiritual reality. The Baha'i concept of pro-
gressive revelation responds directly to this challenge, asserting that there
is only one religion and one spiritual reality. In the same manner that
there is a progressive evolution of scientific knowledge, there is also a pro-
gressive revelation of religious and spiritual reality, which corresponds
to the moral, ethical, and spiritual challenges faced by humanity at
various stages of its collective growth.
Another challenging aspect of the Baha'i concept of unity in diversi-
ty is related to the kind of new world order it envisions to replace the cur-
rent order. In this new world order, the sanctity of all people's human
rights to justice, freedom, and equality is absolute. This is extremely im-
portant because there is now considerable agreement and dedication
among many peoples and leaders of the world with respect to the issue
of human rights. The high level of unity among the groups who have
made it their objective to defend the human rights of all people is an ex-
cellent example of the higher levels of unity for which the Baha'i peace
program calls and which the Baha'i world community is demonstrating
as not only possible but also inevitable. The experience of the Baha'i com-
munity is worthy of study as a world community which has in its midst
representatives of all nations, races, religions, and ideological and
political persuasions. They have all become united by virtue of their
understanding that all people are noble and spiritual in their essence and
X

that the purpose of life is the attainment of ever higher degrees of love,
harmony, cooperation, beauty, and creativity.
Seen in this context, Baha'i practices such as the use of consultation
for conflict resolution, the unique electoral procedures of the Baha'i com-
munity in the election of assemblies to administer human affairs, and the
Baha'i emphasis on the spiritual principle of harnessing the forces of
human dignity, love, and justice rather than those of decadence, violence,
and injustice, become more meaningful. The practicality of this approach
is also reaffirmed by the experience of the Baha'i community and its vic-
tory over violence. This is particularly evident in Iran, where, since its
inception in 1844, the Baha'i community has been the target of an
unimaginable campaign of violence, to which it has always responded
with a love that reiterates the fundamental nobility of all people.
We hope that this edition of To the Peoples of the World will further
promote the cause of world peace by contributing to a higher degree of
unity of thought among the world's peoples and leaders in their examina-
tion of the essential prerequisites of peace. Such universal awareness of
these prerequisites and of the inevitability of the achievement of peace
will, no doubt, be a potent motivating factor in humanity's movement
from unity of thought to unity of action.
xi
HOSSAIN DANESH
Editor

INTRODUCTION
BACKGROUND
On October 24, 1985, the Universal House of Justice, the supreme govern-
ing body of the Baha'i Faith, addressed a statement to the peoples of the
world on the theme of peace. This historic undertaking represents the
most far-reaching effort in the area of peace that has been advanced
by the Baha'i community since its inception in the mid-nineteenth
century.
One of the fundamental objectives of the Baha't Faith is the establish-
ment of world peace within the framework of a unified, spiritually
enlightened new world order. During his own life, Baha'u 'llah
(1817-1892), the prophet-founder of the Baha'i Faith, addressed a number
ofletters to the kings, religious leaders and peoples of the world, outlining
the main prerequisites for world peace. His voluminous writings stressed,
even at that early date, the imperative need for a world order based on
justice, the eradication of all forms of prejudice, the equality of the sexes,
and recognition of the essential harmony between science and religion.
Other principles enunciated by Baha'u 'llah included the creation of
universal institutions designed to foster the unity of mankind, and the
search for a solution to world economic problems through consideration
of the spiritual dimensions of human life.
'Abdu '1-Baha (1844-1921), the eldest son and immediate appointed
successor to Baha'u'llah , likewise dedicated his life to these objectives.
In a series of remarkable lectures in Europe and North America during
the years 1911-1913, and in thousands of letters to Baha'is around the
world throughout his lifetime, he further elaborated upon Baha'i
teachings in regard to the establishment of peace. These efforts were
enhanced and given more specific focus by Shoghi Effendi (1897-195 7),
the successor to 'Abdu'l-Baha, who guided the Baha'i community dur-
ing perhaps the most turbulent decades in the history of mankind and
took up the task of developing a united, peaceful Baha't world communi-
ty, enriched and beautified by the diversity of its peoples and cultures.
Now the Universal House of Justice has reissued this call to mankind,
and Baha'i communities around the world have responded with
xiii

vigour and enthusiasm. Since October 24, 1985, the fortieth anniversary
of the establishment of the United Nations, Baha'is have presented the
statement on peace to the Secretary-General of the United Nations as well
as to a large number of states and governments throughout the world.
Presentations will continue until all governments and many leaders of
humanity in various fields have received the message. It is hoped, too,
that in this process a large number of peoples of the world will have
become acquainted with the contents of this statement.
OVERVIEW
This weighty and comprehensive document identifies several themes and
concepts cardinal to the Baha'i understanding of human nature and the
process of the unfoldment of human civilization. Among these are the
concepts of the collective growth of mankind, the spiritual and noble
nature of man, the necessity for the unity of mankind as the prerequisite
for peace, and the progressive nature of divine revelation.
Recognizing that the establishment of peace has been the quest of
many people throughout history, the Universal House of Justice asserts
that its achievement has become possible only now, with humanity's
coming of age. Impelled by the forces of growth inherent in all creation,
including mankind as a whole, humanity is now traversing its age of
adolescence and approaching an era in which world peace will become
not only possible but inevitable. However, as humanity nears its age of
maturity, approaches to its problems must be modified. One of the most
urgent of these problems is the current climate of discord, antagonism
and readiness for war existing in the world-a negative factor tempered
by the increasing awareness of the grave perils inherent in this current
attitude. The choice which faces us now is whether to foster the establish-
ment of world peace through a process characterized by cooperation, col-
laboration and consultation, or, alternatively, to allow the destructive
forces of competition, enmity and mistrust to lead mankind on a path
to such destruction that the nations and peoples of the world will, out
of desperation, accept peace as their last resort.
The assertion by the Universal House of Justice that peace is in-
evitable is based on the recognition that with the advent of maturity
comes much greater desire and ability for cooperation, harmony, and
mutuality. The movement towards unity identified in the statement has
a history as old as mankind itself, beginning with the development of the
family and the tribe, and progressing through the establishment of the
city-state and the nation until the culmination of the process today, with
the era of uniting nations into one world commonwealth in the
framework of a new world order. World unity, therefore, is the prime
prerequisite for peace, and without it the quest for peace, however power-
ful and sincere, will remain a quest and nothing more.
The advent of the maturity of mankind not only lays the foundations
xiv

for the establishment of unity and therefore world peace, but also hastens
the spiritualization of life. This is a circular process, as greater maturity
facilitates more spirituality, and a spiritual lifestyle brings about a greater
degree of maturity. This circular relationship will ultimately provide us
with an opportunity to demonstrate, for the first time on a collective
basis, the human qualities of nobility and spirituality. Thus, the coming
of age of mankind is not only the harbinger of the era of unity but also
of our freedom from the bondage of instinctual and animalistic forces
most powerful during our childhood and adolescence. With this freedom
we, at last, shall move from the predominantly materialistic phase of our
life and begin the era of our spiritual enlightenment. Thus, the current
misconceptions about human nature, perceiving it to be aggressive and
violent, are due to the disregard shown for the process of the collective
growth of mankind. The aggression, self-centredness, competition and
war characterizing the annals of human history are reflections of the
behaviour of humanity during its stages of childhood and adolescence.
A mature and healthy society will, no doubt, replace aggression with love,
self-centredness with service to others, competition with cooperation,
and war with peace. The Universal House ofJustice's call is for the affir-
mation of the noble and spiritual nature of humanity, which is totally in-
terdependent with the cause of unity and peace.
In the statement, two invitations are extended to the leaders and
peoples of the world. The specific invitation to the leaders is for the con-
vocation of a world assembly, attended by heads of governments and
rulers of humanity. The second invitation, to the peoples of the world,
offers for study the experience of the world-wide Bahi'i community as
one prototype for the creation of a united and peaceful world. The Bahi'i
experience is interesting, not only because of the kind of communities
which have evolved, but also for the manner in which they deal with
violence. The case of the Bahi'is of Iran and their response to tyranny
and oppression is one excellent contemporary example of the applica-
tion of the Bahi'i teachings on the nobility of human nature and the
ultimate victory of the forces of love and unity over those of hatred and
separation.
FORMAT
The book is composed of three parts: the statement by the Universal
House of Justice, a glossary of themes, and a number of comments by
world-renowned thinkers on the subject of peace, including a foreword
by Dr. Ervin Laszlo of the Club of Rome and appreciations by Professor
Johan Galtung of Princeton University, and Dr. Rodrigo Carazo of the
United Nations University for Peace. In order to facilitate study, all
references and quotations found in the text of the peace statement itself
have been annotated directly following the text. In addition, some of the
major themes and concepts are identified in the margins and are
xv

elaborated upon in the glossary section, with quotations from various
sources on the same theme. The intention here is not to provide an ex-
haustive list of sources, but rather to assist and encourage readers to con-
duct their own research and to provide them with references to the topics
identified.
The comments on the statement, by some of the distinguished
statesmen and scholars of our time, reflect not only their views about the
importance of world peace and the prerequisites for its arrival, but also
the urgency of its achievement. The insights, enlightenment and courage
of leaders in all spheres will assist humanity to traverse this, its age of
adolescence, with as little destruction and as much creativity as possi-
ble. For their contributions to this process we are most grateful.
xvi
HOSSAIN DANESH
Editor

FOREWORD
The Baha'i call for peace comes at a crucial moment in the history of
humanity. Peace in the contemporary world is no longer an option but
a necessity. All leaders and peoples of the world must come to realize this
fact, and achieve the maturity which the Baha'i Faith foresees for the com-
ing of age of humanity.
To achieve peace we need a new orientation of thought and a new
knowledge of the dynami~s of change in the history of human society.
Both have been grasped in their essence in the Baha'i teachings. Conven-
tional wisdom sees conflict as the warp and woof of history, punctuated
by wars and relieved by temporary respites when swords are shielded and
guns are silent. In conventional terms peace is merely truce; war, with
ultimate conquest or subjugation, victory or defeat, is the paradigm. Con-
temporary governments seek security through force of arms: they aspire
to peace but prepare for war.
But this concept of history, this view of the human condition, is not
only false ; it is a menace to life and civilization. In a world where the
technologies of destruction can destroy the human population of the
globe twenty times over, and where the technologies of production, ser-
vices and communication are sophisticated but vulnerable, force is not
an instrument of security but of genocide. In our times we can only sur-
vive, and our civilization can only flower, if we reorient the conventional
wisdom and achieve the new insights which have been proclaimed by
the Baha'i Faith and which are now also supported by the latest
discoveries of the empirical sciences.
Baha'is proclaim that the most important condition that can
bring about peace is unity-the unity of families, of nations, and of the
great currents of thought and inquiry that we denote science and religion.
Maturity, in turn, is a prerequisite for such unity. This is evolutionary
thinking, and its validity is shown by the new theories which emerge
from nonequilibrium thermodynamics, dynamical systems theory,
cybernetics, and the related sciences of complexity. They are supported
by detailed empirical investigations in such fields as physical cosmology,
paleobiological macroevolutionary theory, and new trends in
historiography.
xvii

The new scientific findings underscore the Baha'i proclamations in
regard both the overall direction of historical development-which is
from primitive bands of nomadic hunters-gatherers to modern post-
industrial societies and the global web of interdependence weaved by
them which must, if given the chance, lead ultimately to global unity, and
the overall mode of historical development, which is always beset with
crises and discontinuities but is also endowed with the freedom of select-
ing alternative outcomes. In society as in nature, change is sudden and
discontinuous, and offers multiple trajectories. Conscious human beings
can explore and make use of the alternatives and choose the one that leads
evolution's preferred direction with the least possible suffering and
violence.
If a group of people in possession of the ideas and the faith of the
Baha'i act in concert and with conscious knowledge of the dynamics of
the historical juncture in which humanity now finds itself, they can
decisively influence and change the present course of history. In the
language of the new sciences of evolution, they can be the small, initial-
ly peripheral fluctuation which can be suddenly amplified in a complex
dynamical system when that system becomes critically unstable, and
which, amplified and spreading, can determine the course of the com-
ing bifurcation. Acting with sound knowledge, solid faith and firm deter-
mination, men and women of good will can load the dice of social
change, bias the statistics of evolutionary transformation, and achieve a
humanistic end that is consistent with the great patterns and modalities
of evolution that hold good on Earth as in the vast reaches of the cosmos.
Maturity does not come without the turbulence of adolescence; dynamic
stability on a new plane of organization cannot be achieved without
critical instability and bifurcation on lesser organizational levels.
People of good will everywhere need to heed the call for world
peace by the Baha'i community and reflect on its deeper significance in
light of their own perceptions, traditions, and the emerging theories of
the empirical sciences. Then, through the multiplicity of approaches a
common insight will crystallize, a shared way will be found. Humanity
can set out on the road to a greater wisdom, a fuller maturity, if only it
is given the opportunity to search its cultures and wisdoms, and reflect
on its time and place in the biospheric, indeed in the cosmic, order of
physical, biological and sociocultural reality.
xviii
ERVIN LASZLO
October 1985

Part One
To The Peoples
of the World

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
October 1985
To
The
Peoples
of the
World
The Great Peace towards which peo-
ple of good will throughout the cen-
turies have inclined their hearts, of
which seers and poets for countless
generations have expressed their vi-
sion, and for which from age to age the
sacred scriptures of mankind have con-
stantly held the promise, is now at long
last within the reach of the nations. For
the first time in history it is possible
for everyone to view the entire planet, with all its myriad
diversified peoples, in one perspective. World peace is
not only possible but inevitable. It is the next
stage in the evolution of this planet-in the
words of one great thinker, "the planetiza-
tion of mankind. '' 1
The Quest
For Peace
Whether peace is to be reached only after un-
imaginable horrors precipitated by humanity's stubborn
clinging to old patterns of behaviour, or is to be embraced
now by an act of consultative will, is the choice before
all who inhabit the earth. At this critical juncture when
the intractable problems confronting nations have been
fused into one common concern for the whole world,
failure to stem the tide of conflict and disorder would be
unconscionably irresponsible.
Among the favourable signs are the steadily grow-
ing strength of the steps towards world order taken in-
itially near the beginning of this century in the creation
of the League of Nations, succeeded by the more broadly

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
based United Nations Organization; the achievement
since the Second World War of independence by the ma-
jority of all the nations on earth, indicating the comple-
tion of the process of nation building, and the involve-
ment of these fledgling nations with older ones in mat-
ters of mutual concern; the consequent vast increase in
co-operation among hitherto isolated and antagonistic
peoples and groups in international undertakings in the
scientific, educational, legal, economic and cultural
fields; the rise in recent decades of an unprecedented
number of international humanitarian organizations; the
spread of women's and youth movements calling for an
end to war; and the spontaneous spawning of widening
networks of ordinary people seeking understanding
through personal communication.
The scientific and technological advances occur-
ring in this unusually blessed century por- --------
tend a great surge forward in the social
Technology.-
evolution of the planet, and indicate the
For War or Peace?
means by which the practical problems of _______ _
humanity may be solved. They provide, indeed, the very
means for the administration of the complex life of a
united world. Yet barriers persist. Doubts, misconcep-
tions, prejudices, suspicions and narrow self-interest
beset nations and peoples in their relations one to
another.
It is out of a deep sense of spiritual and moral duty
that we are impelled at this opportune moment to invite
your attention to the penetrating insights first com-
municated to the rulers of mankind more than a century
ago by Baha'u'llah, Founder of the Baha'i Faith, of which
we are the Trustees.
"The winds of despair," Baha'u 'llah wrote, "are,
alas, blowing from every direction, and the strife that
divides and afflicts the human race is daily increasing.
The signs of impending convulsions and chaos can now
be discerned, inasmuch as the prevailing order appears
to be lamentably defective.'' 2 This prophetic judgement
has been amply confirmed by the common experience
of humanity. Flaws in the prevailing order are con-

spicuous in the inability of sovereign states
organized as United Nations to exorcize the
spectre of war, the threatened collapse of the
Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
The Spectre
ofWar
international economic order, the _______ _
spread of anarchy and terrorism, and the intense suffer-
ing which these and other afflictions are causing to in-
creasing millions. Indeed, so much have aggression
and conflict come to characterize our social,
economic and religious systems, that many
have succumbed to the view that such
Aggression and
Human Nature
behaviour is intrinsic to human nature and _______ _
therefore ineradicable.
With the entrenchment of this view, a paralyzing
contradiction has developed in human affairs. On the
one hand, people of all nations proclaim not only their
readiness but their longing for peace and harmony, for
an end to the harrowing apprehensions tormenting their
daily lives. On the other, uncritical assent is given to the
proposition that human beings are incorrigibly selfish
and aggressive and thus incapable of erecting a social
system at once progressive and peaceful, dynamic and
harmonious, a system giving free play to individual
creativity and initiative but based on co-operation and
reciprocity.
As the need for peace becomes more urgent, this
fundamental contradiction, which hinders its realiza-
tion, demands a reassessment of the assumptions upon
which the commonly-held view of mankind's historical
predicament is based. Dispassionately examined, the
evidence reveals that such conduct, far from express-
ing man's true self, represents a distortion of the human
spirit. Satisfaction on this point will enable all people
to set in motion constructive social forces which,
because they are consistent with human nature, will en-
courage harmony and co-operation instead of war and
conflict.
To choose such a course is not to deny humanity's
past but to understand it. The Baha'i Faith regards the
current world confusion and calamitous condition in
human affairs as a natural phase in an organic process

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
leading ultimately and irresistibly to the unifica-
tion of the human race in a single social order whose
boundaries are those of the planet. The --------
human race, as a distinct, organic unit, has
Collective Growth
passed through evolutionary stages
of Mankind
analogous to the stages of infancy and _______ _
childhood in the lives of its individual members, and is
now in the culminating period of its turbulent
adolescence approaching its long-awaited coming of
age.
A candid acknowledgement that prejudice, war and
exploitation have been the expression of immature
stages in a vast historical process and that the human
race is today experiencing the unavoidable tumult
which marks its collective coming of age is not a reason
for despair but a prerequisite to undertaking the stupen-
dous enterprise of building a peaceful world. That such
an enterprise is possible, that the necessary constructive
forces do exist, that unifying social structures can be
erected, is the theme we urge you to examine.
Whatever suffering and turmoil the years im-
mediately ahead may hold, however dark the immediate
circumstances, the Baha'i community believes that
humanity can confront this supreme trial with con-
fidence in its ultimate outcome. Far from signalizing the
end of civilization, the convulsive changes towards
which humanity is being ever more rapidly impelled will
serve to release the ''potentialities inherent in the sta-
tion of man'' and reveal ''the full measure of his destiny
on earth, the innate excellence of his reality.'' 3

I
Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
The endowments which distinguish the human race
from all other forms of life are summed up in what is
known as the human spirit; the mind is its --------
essential quality. These endowments have
enabled humanity to build civilizations and
to prosper materially. But such ac-
The Transcendent
Nature of the
Human Spirit
complishments alone have never satisfied _______ _
the human spirit, whose mysterious nature inclines it
towards transcendence, a reaching towards an invisible
realm, towards the ultimate reality, that unknowable
essence of essences called God. The religions brought
to mankind by a succession of spiritual --------
luminaries have been the primary link be-
tween humanity and that ultimate reality,
and have galvanized and refined mankind's
Progressive
Revelation
capacity to achieve spiritual success together with social
progress.
No serious attempt to set human affairs aright, to
achieve world peace, can ignore religion. Man's percep-
tion and practice of it are largely the stuff of history. An
eminent historian described religion as a " faculty of
human nature.' ' 4 That the perversion of this faculty has
contributed to much of the confusion in society and the
conflicts in and between individuals can hardly be
denied. But neither can any fair-minded observer dis-
count the preponderating influence exerted by religion
on the vital expressions of civilization. Furthermore, its
indispensability to social order has repeatedly been

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
demonstrated by its direct effect on laws and morality.
Writing of religion as a social force, Baha'u'llah
said: ''Religion is the greatest of all means for --------
the establishment of order in the world and
for the peaceful contentment of all that
dwell therein.'' 5 Referring to the eclipse or
corruption of religion, he wrote: "Should
Role of Religion
in Achieving
World Peace
the lamp of religion be obscured, chaos and confusion
will ensue, and the lights of fairness, of justice, of tran-
quillity and peace cease to shine.'' 6 In an enumeration
of such consequences the Baha'i writings point out that
the ''perversion of human nature, the degradation of
human conduct, the corruption and dissolution of
human institutions, reveal themselves, under such cir-
cumstances, in their worst and most revolting aspects.
Human character is debased, confidence is shaken, the
nerves of discipline are relaxed, the voice of human con-
science is stilled, the sense of decency and shame is
obscured, conceptions of duty, of solidarity, of
reciprocity and loyalty are distorted, and the very feel-
ing of peacefulness, of joy and of hope is gradually ex-
tinguished." 7
If, therefore, humanity has come to a point of
paralyzing conflict it must look to itself, to its own
negligence, to the siren voices to which it has listened,
for the source of the misunderstandings and confusion
perpetrated in the name of religion. Those who have
held blindly and selfishly to their particular orthodox-
ies, who have imposed on their votaries erroneous and
conflicting interpretations of the pronouncements of
the Prophets of God, bear heavy responsibility for this
confusion-a confusion compounded by the artificial
barriers erected between faith and reason, science and
religion. For from a fair-minded examination of the ac-
tual utterances of the Founders of the great religions,
and of the social milieus in which they were obliged to
carry out their missions, there is nothing to support the
contentions and prejudices deranging the religious com-
munities of mankind and therefore all human affairs.
The teaching that we should treat others as we

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
ourselves would wish to be treated, an ethic variously
repeated in all the great religions, lends force to this
latter observation in two particular respects:
it sums up the moral attitude, the peace-
The
inducing aspect, extending through these
Golden Rule
religions irrespective of their place or time
of origin; it also signifies an aspect of unity which is their
essential virtue, a virtue mankind in its disjointed view
of history has failed to appreciate.
Had humanity seen the Educators of its collective
childhood in their true character, as agents of one civiliz-
ing process, it would no doubt have reaped incalculably
greater benefits from the cumulative effects of their suc-
cessive missions. This, alas, it failed to do.
The resurgence of fanatical religious fervour occur-
ring in many lands cannot be regarded as more than a
dying convulsion. The very nature of the violent and
disruptive phenomena associated with it testifies to the
spiritual bankruptcy it represents. Indeed, one of the
strangest and saddest features of the current outbreak
of religious fanaticism is the extent to which, in each
case, it is undermining not only the spiritual values
which are conducive to the unity of mankind but also
those unique moral victories won by the particular
religion it purports to serve.
However vital a force religion has been in the
history of mankind, and however dramatic the current
resurgence of militant religious fanaticism, religion and
religious institutions have, for many decades, been
viewed by increasing numbers of people as irrelevant
to the major concerns of the modern world. In its place
they have turned either to the hedonistic pursuit of
material satisfactions or to the following of man-made
ideologies designed to rescue society from the evident
evils under which it groans. All too many of these
ideologies, alas, instead of embracing the concept of the
oneness of mankind and promoting the increase of con-
cord among different peoples, have tended to deify the
state, to subordinate the rest of mankind to one nation,
race or class, to attempt to suppress all discussion and

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
interchange of ideas, or to callously abandon starving
millions to the operations of a market system that all too
clearly is aggravating the plight of the majority of
mankind, while enabling small sections to live in a con-
dition of affluence scarcely dreamed ofby our forebears .
How tragic is the record of the substitute faiths that
the worldly-wise of our age have created. In --------
the massive disillusionment of entire popula-
Substitute
tions who have been taught to worship at
Faiths
their altars can be read history's irreversible
verdict on their value. The fruits these doctrines have
produced, after decades of an increasingly unrestrained
exercise of power by those who owe their ascendancy
in human affairs to them, are the social and economic
ills that blight every region of our world in the closing
years of the twentieth century. Underlying all these out-
ward afflictions is the spiritual damage reflected in the
apathy that has gripped the mass of the peoples of all na-
tions and by the extinction of hope in the hearts of
deprived and anguished millions.
The time has come when those who preach the
dogmas of materialism, whether of the east or the west,
whether of capitalism or socialism, must give account
of the moral stewardship they have presumed to exer-
cise. Where is the "new world" promised by these
ideologies? Where is the international peace to whose
ideals they proclaim their devotion? Where are the
breakthroughs into new realms of cultural achievement
produced by the aggrandizement of this race, of that na-
tion or of a particular class? Why is the vast majority of
the world's peoples sinking ever deeper into hunger and
wretchedness when wealth on a scale undreamed ofby
the Pharaohs, the Caesars, or even the imperialist
powers of the nineteenth century is at the disposal of
the present arbiters of human affairs?
Most particularly, it is in the glorification of material
pursuits, at once the progenitor and common feature of
all such ideologies, that we find the roots which nourish
the falsehood that human beings are incorrigibly selfish
and aggressive. It is here that the ground must be cleared

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
for the building of a new world fit for our descendants.
That materialistic ideals have, in the light of ex-
perience, failed to satisfy the needs of mankind calls for
an honest acknowledgement that a fresh effort must
now be made to find the solutions to the agonizing pro-
blems of the planet. The intolerable conditions per-
vading society bespeak a common failure of all, a cir-
cumstance which tends to incite rather than relieve the
entrenchment on every side. Clearly, a common
remedial effort is urgently required. It is primarily a mat-
ter of attitude. Will humanity continue in its wayward-
ness, holding to outworn concepts and unworkable
assumptions? Or will its leaders, regardless of ideology,
step forth and, with a resolute will, consult together in
a united search for appropriate solutions?
Those who care for the future of the human race
may well ponder this advice: ''If long-cherished ideals
and time-honoured institutions, if.certain social assump-
tions and religious formulae have ceased to promote the
welfare of the generality of mankind, if they no longer
minister to the needs of a continually evolving humani-
ty, let them be swept away and relegated to the limbo
of obsolescent and forgotten doctrines. Why should
these, in a world subject to the immutable law of change
and decay, be exempt from the deterioration that must
needs overtake every human institution? For legal stand-
ards, political and economic theories are solely designed
to safeguard the interests of humanity as a whole, and
not humanity to be crucified for the preservation of the
integrity of any particular law or doctrine.'' 8

II
Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
Banning nuclear weapons, prohibiting the use of
poison gases, or outlawing germ warfare will
not remove the root causes of war. However
Disarmament
important such practical measures obviously
are as elements of the peace process, they are in
themselves too superficial to exert enduring influence.
Peoples are ingenious enough to invent yet other forms
of warfare, and to use food, raw materials, finance, in-
dustrial power, ideology, and terrorism to subvert one
another in an endless quest for supremacy and domin-
ion. Nor can the present massive dislocation in the af-
fairs of humanity be resolved through the settlement of
specific conflicts or disagreements among nations. A
genuine universal framework must be adopted.
Certainly, there is no lack of recognition by national
leaders of the world-wide character of the problem,
which is self-evident in the mounting issues that con-
front them daily. And there are the accumulating studies
and solutions proposed by many concerned and
enlightened groups as well as by agencies of the United
Nations, to remove any possibility of ignorance as to the
challenging requirements to be met. There is, however,
a paralysis of will; and it is this that must be carefully ex-
amined and resolutely dealt with. This paralysis is
rooted, as we have stated, in a deep-seated conviction
of the inevitable quarrelsomeness of mankind, which
has led to the reluctance to entertain the possibility of
subordinating national self-interest to the requirements

Statement of the
Universal House of]ustice
of world order, and in an unwillingness to face
courageously the far-reaching implications of
establishing a united world authority. It is also traceable
to the incapacity of largely ignorant and subjugated
masses to articulate their desire for a new order in which
they can live in peace, harmony and prosperity with all
humanity.
The tentative steps towards world order, especially
since World War II, give hopeful signs. The increasing
tendency of groups of nations to formalize relationships
which enable them to co-operate in matters of mutual
interest suggests that eventually all nations could over-
come this paralysis. The Association of South East Asian
Nations, the Caribbean Community and Common
Market, the Central American Common Market, the
Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, the European
Communities, the League of Arab States, the Organiza-
tion of African Unity, the Organization of American
States, the South Pacific Forum-all the joint endeavours
represented by such organizations prepare the path to
world order.
The increasing attention being focused on some of
the most deep-rooted problems of the planet is yet
another hopeful sign. Despite the obvious short-
comings of the United Nations, the more
than two score declarations and conventions
adopted by that organization, even where
governments have not been enthusiastic in
their commitment, have given ordinary peo-
Declarations and
Conventions of the
United Nations
ple a sense of a new lease on life. The Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights, the Convention on the Preven-
tion and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, and the
similar measures concerned with eliminating all forms
of discrimination based on race, sex or religious belief;
upholding the rights of the child; protecting all persons
against being subjected to torture; eradicating hunger
and malnutrition; using scientific and technological pro-
gress in the interest of peace and the benefit of
mankind-all such measures, if courageously enforced
and expanded, will advance the day when the spectre

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
of war will have lost its power to dominate international
relations. There is no need to stress the significance of
the issues addressed by these declarations and conven-
tions. However, a few such issues, because of their im-
mediate relevance to establishing world peace, deserve
additional comment.
Racism, one of the most baneful and persistent
evils, is a major barrier to peace. Its practice --------
perpetrates too outrageous a violation of the
dignity of human beings to be countenanced
under any pretext. Racism retards the un-
foldment of the boundless potentialities of
Barriers
to Peace
Racism
its victims, corrupts its perpetrators, and _______ _
blights human progress. Recognition of the oneness of
mankind, implemented by appropriate legal measures,
must be universally upheld if this problem is to be
overcome.
The inordinate disparity between rich and poor, a
source of acute suffering, keeps the world in
a state of instability, virtually on the brink of
war. Few societies have dealt effectively
Disparity between
Rich and Poor
with this situation. The solution calls for the combined
application of spiritual, moral and practical approaches.
A fresh look at the problem is required, entailing con-
sultation with experts from a wide spectrum of
disciplines, devoid of economic and ideological
polemics, and involving the people directly affected in
the decisions that must urgently be made. It is an issue
that is bound up not only with the necessity for
eliminating extremes of wealth and poverty but also
with those spiritual verities the understanding of which
can produce a new universal attitude. Fostering such an
attitude is itself a major part of the solution.
Unbridled nationalism, as distinguished from a sane
and legitimate patriotism, must give way to ___
u_n_b_r-id-te_d __
_
a wider loyalty, to the love of humanity as
a whole. Baha'u'llah's statement is: "The
Nationalism
earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.'' 9 The
concept of world citizenship is a direct result of the con-
traction of the world into a single neighbourhood

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
through scientific advances and of the indisputable in-
terdependence of nations. Love of all the world's
peoples does not exclude love of one's country. The ad-
vantage of the part in a world society is best served by
promoting the advantage of the whole. Current inter-
national activities in various fields which nurture mutual
affection and a sense of solidarity among peoples need
greatly to be increased.
Religious strife, throughout history, has been the
cause of innumerable wars and conflicts, a
major blight to progress, and is increasing-
Religious
Strife
ly abhorrent to the people of all faiths and no _______ _
faith . Followers of all religions must be willing to face
the basic questions which this strife raises, and to arrive
at clear answers. How are the differences between them
to be resolved, both in theory and in practice? The
challenge facing the religious leaders of mankind is to
contemplate, with hearts filled with the spirit of com-
passion and a desire for truth, the plight of humanity,
and to ask themselves whether they cannot, in humili-
ty before their Almighty Creator, submerge their
theological differences in a great spirit of mutual
forbearance that will enable them to work together for
the advancement of human understanding and peace.
The emancipation of women, the achievement of
full equality between the sexes, is one of the
most important, though less acknowledged
prerequisites of peace. The denial of such
equality perpetrates an injustice against one
half of the world's population and promotes
Important
Prerequisites
for Peace
in men harmful attitudes and habits that are
Equality of the Sexes
carried from the family to the workplace, to
political life, and ultimately to international relations.
There are no grounds, moral, practical, or biological,
upon which such denial can be justified. Only as women
are welcomed into full partnership in all fields of human
endeavour will the moral and psychological climate be
created in which international peace can emerge.
The cause of universal education, which has already
enlisted in its service an army of dedicated people from

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
every faith and nation, deserves the utmost support that
the governments of the world can lend it. ---u-ni-.v-er-sa_l __
_
For ignorance is indisputably the principal
reason for the decline and fall of peoples and
Education
the perpetuation of prejudice. No nation can achieve
success unless education is accorded all its citizens. Lack
of resources limits the ability of many nations to fulfil
this necessity, imposing a certain ordering of priorities.
The decision-making agencies involved would do well
to consider giving first priority to the education of
women and girls, since it is through educated mothers
that the benefits of knowledge can be most effectively
and rapidly diffused throughout society. In keeping with
the requirements of the times, consideration should also
be given to teaching the concept of world citizenship
as part of the standard education of every child.
A fundamental lack of communication between
peoples seriously undermines efforts --------
Improved Global
towards world peace. Adopting an interna-
communication
tional auxiliary language would go far to
resolving this problem and necessitates the most urgent
attention.
Two points bear emphasizing in all these issues.
One is that the abolition of war is not simply a matter
of signing treaties and protocols; it is a complex task re-
quiring a new level of commitment to resolving issues
not customarily associated with the pursuit of peace.
Based on political agreements alone, the idea of collec-
tive security is a chimera. The other point is that the
primary challenge in dealing with issues of peace is to
raise the context to the level of principle, as distinct
from pure pragmatism. For, in essence, peace stems
from an inner state supported by a spiritual or moral at-
titude, and it is chiefly in evoking this attitude that the
possibility of enduring solutions can be found.
There are spiritual principles, or what some call
human values, by which solutions can be found for
every social problem. Any well-intentioned group can
in a general sense devise practical solutions to its pro-
blems, but good intentions and practical knowledge are

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
usually not enough. The essential merit of spiritual prin-
ciple is that it not only presents a perspective which har-
monizes with that which is immanent in human nature,
it also induces an attitude, a dynamic, a will, an aspira-
tion, which facilitate the discovery and implementation
of practical measures. Leaders of governments and all
in authority would be well served in their efforts to solve
problems if they would first seek to identify the prin-
ciples involved and then be guided by them.

III
Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
The primary question to be resolved is how the present
world, with its entrenched pattern of conflict, can
change to a world in which harmony and co-operation
will prevail.
World order can be founded only on an un-
shakeable consciousness of the oneness of --------
mankind, a spiritual truth which all the
human sciences confirm. Anthropology,
physiology, psychology, recognize only one
human species, albeit infinitely varied in the
Unity: The Cardinal
Prerequisite
for Peace
secondary aspects of life. Recognition of this truth re-
quires abandonment of prejudice-prejudice of every
kind-race, class, colour, creed, nation, sex, degree of
material civilization, everything which enables people
to consider themselves superior to others.
Acceptance of the oneness of mankind is the first
fundamental prerequisite for reorganization and ad-
ministration of the world as one country, the home of
humankind. Universal acceptance of this spiritual prin-
ciple is essential to any successful attempt to establish
world peace. It should therefore be universally pro-
claimed, taught in schools, and constantly asserted in
every nation as preparation for the organic change in the
structure of society which it implies.
In the Baha'i view, recognition of the oneness of
mankind' 'calls for no less than the reconstruction and
the demilitarization of the whole civilized world-a
world organically unified in all the essential aspects of

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
its life, its political machinery, its spiritual aspiration,
its trade and finance, its script and language, and yet in-
finite in the diversity of the national characteristics of
its federated units." 10
Elaborating the implications of this pivotal princi-
ple, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Baha'i Faith,
commented in 1931 that: "Far from aiming at the
subversion of the existing foundations of society, it
seeks to broaden its basis, to remold its institutions in
a manner consonant with the needs of an ever-changing
world. It can conflict with no legitimate allegiances, nor
can it undermine essential loyalties. Its purpose is
neither to stifle the flame of a sane and intelligent
patriotism in men's hearts, nor to abolish the system of
national autonomy so essential if the evils of excessive
centralization are to be avoided . It does not ignore, nor
does it attempt to suppress, the diversity of ethnical
origins, of climate, of history, of language and tradition,
of thought and habit, that differentiate the peoples and
nations of the world. It calls for a wider loyalty, for a
larger aspiration than any that has animated the human
race. It insists upon the subordination of national im-
pulses and interests to the imperative claims of a unified
world. It repudiates excessive centralization on one
hand, and disclaims all attempts at uniformity on the
other. Its watchword is unity in diversity." 11
The achievement of such ends requires several
stages in the adjustment of national political attitudes,
which now verge on anarchy in the absence of clearly
defined laws or universally accepted and enforceable
principles regulating the relationships between nations.
The League of Nations, the United Nations, --------
and the many organizations and agreements
Towards a
produced by them have unquestionably
New World Order
been helpful in attenuating some of the _______ _
negative effects of international conflicts, but they have
shown themselves incapable of preventing war. Indeed,
there have been scores of wars since the end of the Se-
cond World War; many are yet raging.
The predominant aspects of this problem had

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
already emerged in the nineteenth century when
Baha'u 'llah first advanced his proposals for the establish-
ment of world peace. The principle of collective security
was propounded by him in statements addressed to the
rulers of the world. Shoghi Effendi commented on his
meaning: "What else could these weighty words
signify," he wrote, "if they did not point to the in-
evitable curtailment of unfettered national sovereign-
ty as an indispensable preliminary to the formation of
the future Commonwealth of all the nations of the
world? Some form of a world super-state must needs be
evolved, in whose favour all the nations of the world
will have willingly ceded every claim to make war, cer-
tain rights to impose taxation and all rights to maintain
armaments, except for purposes of maintaining inter-
nal order within their respective dominions. Such a state
will have to include within its orbit an International Ex-
ecutive adequate to enforce supreme and un-
challengeable authority on every recalcitrant member
of the commonwealth; a World Parliament whose
members shall be elected by the people in their respec-
tive countries and whose election shall be confirmed by
their respective governments; and a Supreme Tribunal
whose judgement will have a binding effect even in such
cases where the parties concerned did not voluntarily
agree to submit their case to its consideration.
'' A world community in which all economic bar-
riers will have been permanently demolished and the in-
terdependence of capital and labour definitely recog-
nized; in which the clamour of religious fanaticism and
strife will have been forever stilled; in which the flame
of racial animosity will have been finally extinguished;
in which a single code of international law-the product
of the considered judgement of the world's federated
representatives-shall have as its sanction the instant
and coercive intervention of the combined forces of the
federated units; and finally a world community in which
the fury of a capricious and militant nationalism will
have been transmuted into an abiding consciousness of
world citizenship-such indeed, appears, in its broadest

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
outline, the Order anticipated by Baha'u'llah, an Order
that shall come to be regarded as the fairest fruit of a
slowly maturing age." 12
The implementat~on of these far-reaching measures
was indicated by Baha'u'llah: "The time must come
when the imperative necessity for the holding of a vast,
an all-embracing assemblage of men will be universal-
ly realized. The rulers and kings of the earth must needs
attend it, and, participating in its deliberations, must
consider such ways and means as will lay the founda-
tions of the world's Great Peace amongst men." 13
The courage, the resolution, the pure motive, the
selfless love of one people for another-all the spiritual
and moral qualities required for effecting this momen-
tous step towards peace are focused on the will to act.
And it is towards arousing the necessary volition that
earnest consideration must be given to the reality of
man, namely, his thought. To understand the relevance
of this potent reality is also to appreciate the social
necessity of actualizing its unique value through candid,
dispassionate and cordial consultation, and of acting
upon the results of this process. Baha'u'llah insistently
drew attention to the virtues and indispensability of
consultation for ordering human affairs. He
said: ''Consultation bestows greater
Consultation and
awareness and transmutes conjecture into Conflict Resolution
certitude. It is a shining light which, in a dark _______ _
world, leads the way and guides. For everything there
is and will continue to be a station of perfection and
maturity. The maturity of the gift of understanding is
made manifest through consultation." 14 The very at-
tempt to achieve peace through the consultative action
he proposed can release such a salutary spirit among the
peoples of the earth that no power could resist the final,
triumphal outcome.
Concerning the proceedings for this world gather-
ing, 'Abdu'l-Baha, the son ofBaha'u'llah and authorized
interpreter of his teachings, offered these insights:
''They must make the Cause of Peace the object of
general consultation, and seek by every means in their

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
power to establish a Union of the nations of the world.
They must conclude a binding treaty and establish a
covenant, the provisions of which shall be sound, in-
violable and definite. They must proclaim it to all the
world and obtain for it the sanction of all the human
race. This supreme and noble undertaking-the real
source of the peace and well-being of all the world-
should be regarded as sacred by all that dwell on earth.
All the forces of humanity must be mobilized to ensure
the stability and permanence of this Most Great Cove-
nant. In this all-embracing Pact the limits and frontiers
of each and every nation should be clearly fixed, the
principles underlying the relations of governments
towards one another definitely laid down, and all inter-
national agreements and obligations ascertained. In like
manner, the size of the armaments of every government
should be strictly limited, for if the preparations for war
and the military forces of any nation should be allowed
to increase, they will arouse the suspicion of others. The
fundamental principle underlying this solemn Pact
should be so fixed that if any government later violate
any one of its provisions, all the governments on earth
should arise to reduce it to utter submission, nay the
human race as a whole should resolve, with every power
at its disposal, to destroy that government. Should this
greatest of all remedies be applied to the sick body of the
world, it will assuredly recover from its ills and will re-
main eternally safe and secure." 15
The holding of this mighty convocation is long
overdue.
With all the ardour of our hearts, we appeal to the
leaders of all nations to seize this opportune moment
and take irreversible steps to convoke this world
meeting. All the forces of history impel the human race
towards this act which will mark for all time the dawn
of its long-awaited maturity.
Will not the United Nations, with the full support
of its membership, rise to the high purposes of such a
crowning event?
Let men and women, youth and children every-

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
where recognize the eternal merit of this im-
perative action for all peoples and lift up their voices in
willing assent. Indeed, let it be this generation that in-
augurates this glorious stage in the evolution of social
life on the planet.

IV
Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
The source of the optimism we feel is a vision transcend-
ing the cessation of war and the creation of agencies of
international co-operation. Permanent peace among na-
tions is an essential stage, but not, Baha'u'llah asserts,
the ultimate goal of the social development of humani-
ty. Beyond the initial armistice forced upon the world
by the fear of nuclear holocaust, beyond the political
peace reluctantly entered into by suspicious rival na-
tions, beyond pragmatic arrangements for security and
coexistence, beyond even the many experiments in co-
operation which these steps will make possible lies the
crowning goal: the unification of all the peoples of the
world in one universal family .
Disunity is a danger that the nations and peoples of
the earth can no longer endure; the consequences are
too terrible to contemplate, too obvious to require any
demonstration. ''The well-being of mankind,''
Baha'u'llah wrote more than a century ago, ''its peace
and security, are unattainable unless and until its unity
is firmly established." 16 In observing that " mankind is
groaning, is dying to be led to unity, and to terminate
its age-long martyrdom,'' 17 Shoghi Effendi further com-
mented that: ''Unification of the whole of mankind is
the hall-mark of the stage which human society is now
approaching. Unity of family, of tribe, of city-state, and
nation have been successively attempted and fully
established. World unity is the goal towards which a
harassed humanity is striving. Nation-building has come

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
to an end. The anarchy inherent in state sovereignty is
moving towards a climax. A world, growing to maturity,
must abandon this fetish, recognize the oneness and
wholeness of human relationships, and establish once
and for all the machinery that can best incarnate this fun-
damental principle of its life." 18
All contemporary forces of change validate this
view. The proofs can be discerned in the many examples
already cited of the favourable signs towards world
peace in current international movements and
developments. The army of men and women, drawn
from virtually every culture, race and nation on earth,
who serve the multifarious agencies of the United Na-
tions, represent a planetary " civil service" whose im-
pressive accomplishments are indicative of the degree
of co-operation that can be attained even under
discouraging conditions. An urge towards unity, like a
spiritual springtime, struggles to express itself through
countless international congresses that bring together
people from a vast array of disciplines. It motivates ap-
peals for international projects involving children and
youth. Indeed, it is the real source of the remarkable
movement towards ecumenism by which members of
historically antagonistic religions and sects seem ir-
resistibly drawn towards one another. Together with
the opposing tendency to warfare and self-
aggrandizement against which it ceaselessly struggles,
the drive towards world unity is one of the dominant,
pervasive features of life on the planet during the clos-
ing years of the twentieth century.
The experience of the Baha'f communi-
ty may be seen as an example of this enlarg-
ing unity. It is a community of some three to
four million people drawn from many na-
tions, cultures, classes and creeds, engaged
The Experience
of the
Baba 'i Community
in a wide range of activities serving the spiritual, social
and economic needs of the peoples of many lands. It is
a single social organism, representative of the diversi-
ty of the human family, conducting its affairs through
a system of commonly accepted consultative principles,

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
and cherishing equa'lly all the great outpourings of
divine guidance in human history. Its existence is yet
another convincing proof of the practicality of its
Founder's vision of a united world, another evidence
that humanity can live as one global society, equal to
whatever challenges its coming of age may entail. If the
Baha'f experience can contribute in whatever measure
to reinforcing hope in the unity of the human race, we
are happy to offer it as a model for study.
In contemplating the supreme importance of the
task now challenging the entire world, we bow our
heads in humility before the awesome majesty of the
divine Creator, Who out of His infinite love has created
all humanity from the same stock; exalted the gem-like
reality of man; honoured it with intellect and wisdom,
nobility and immortality; and conferred upon man the
"unique distinction and capacity to know Him and to
love Him," a capacity that " must needs be regarded as
the generating impulse and the primary purpose
underlying the whole of creation." 19
We hold firmly the conviction that all human be-
ings have been created " to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization"; that " to act like the beasts of
the field is unworthy of man" 20; that the virtues that befit
human dignity are trustworthiness, forbearance, mer-
cy, compassion and loving-kindness towards all
peoples. We reaffirm the belief that the ' 'potentialities
inherent in the station of man, the full measure of his
destiny on earth, the innate excellence of his reality,
must all be manifested in this promised Day of God. ' ' 21
These are the motivations for our unshakeable faith that
unity and peace are the attainable goal towards which
humanity is striving.
At this writing, the expectant voices of Baha'fs can
be heard despite the persecution they still endure in the
land in which their Faith was born. By their example of
steadfast hope, they bear witness to the belief that the
imminent realization of this age-old dream of peace is
now, by virtue of the transforming effects of
Baha'u'llah's revelation, invested with the force of

Statement of the
Universal House of Justice
divine authority. Thus we convey to you not only a vi-
sion in words: we summon the power of deeds of faith
and sacrifice; we convey the anxious plea of our co-
religionists everywhere for peace and unity. We join
with all who are the victims of aggression, all who yearn
for an end to conflict and contention, all whose devo-
tion to principles of peace and world order promotes
the ennobling purposes for which humanity was called
into being by an all-loving Creator.
In the earnestness of our desire to impart to you the
fervour of our hope and the depth of our confidence,
we cite the emphatic promise of Baha'u'llah: "These
fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and
the 'Most Great Peace' shall come." 22
UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

Notes
1. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, The Future of Man , trans. Norman Denny (Lon-
don: William Collins and Son, 1964), 129.
2. Baha'u 'llah, Tablets of Baba 'u 'llah (Haifa, Israel: Baha'i World Centre, 1978),
171.
3. Baha'u'llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'llah, 3rded. (Wilmette,
Illinois: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1976), 340.
4. Arnold Toynbee, Preface to Religion in a Secular Age.- The Search for Final
Meaning by John Cogley (London: Pall Mall Press, 1968), p. viii. The full con-
text of the statement can be seen in the following passage: "If the definition
of religion as a total concern about Man's World is correct, it follows that in
any human society-even the least closely integrated ones-religion will
enter into all human affairs. Religion is a faculty of human nature, and human
nature has its roots in nature."
5. Bahi'u 'llah, cited in The World Order of Baha'u'llah, Shoghi Effendi, 2nd
ed. (Wilmette, Illinois: Bahi'i Publishing Trust, 1974), 186.
6. Baha'u 'llih, Tablets of Baba 'u 'llah, 12 5.
7. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, 187.
8 . Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, 4 2.
9 . Baha'u'llah, Tablets of Baha'u 'llah, 167.
10. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, 4 3.
11. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, 41-4 2.
12 . Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, 40-41.
13. Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, 249.
14. Consultation.- A Compilation, Extracts from the Writings and Utterances
of Baha'u 'llah, 'Abdu 'I-Baba, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of
Justice (Toronto: Baha'i Community of Canada, 1980), 3.
15 . 'Abdu'l-Baha, cited in The World Order of Baha'u 'llah~ 37-38.
16. Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, 286.
17. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha'u'llah, 201.
18. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha'u 'llah, 202 .
19. Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, 65.
20. Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, 215 .
21. Baha'u 'llih, Gleanings, 340.
22 . Baha'u'llih, cited in The Promised Day Is Come, Shoghi Effendi, 3rd ed.
(Wilmette, Illinois: Bahi'i Publishing Trust, 1980), 116.

Part Two
Annotations

The Quest for Peace
"The Great Peace towards which people of good will throughout the cen-
turies have inclined their hearts, of which seers and poets for countless
generations have expressed their vision, and for which from age to age
the sacred scriptures of mankind have constantly held the promise .... "
" . .. and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into
pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more."
Isaiah, 2:4 (repeated in Micah 4:3).
□
"Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it."
Psalms 34:14.
□
"Weapons, however ornamental, are not a source of happiness, but are
dreaded by all. Therefore the man of Tao will not abide where such things
are .... "
Lao Tse (c. 570-490 B.C.), Tao-Teh-King.
□
"Let us therefore now do good. What can we do that is good? Let us now
abstain from taking life. That is a good thing that we may take up and do.
And they will abstain from slaughter, and will continue in this good
way . . . .
"Among such humans, brethren, at Ketumati the royal city, there will
arise Sankha, a Wheel-turning king, righteous and ruling in righteous-
ness ... He will live in supremacy over this earth to its ocean bounds, hav-
ing conquered it not by the scourge, not by the sword, but by
righteousness.''
Buddha (c. 560-480 B.C.), Dialogues of the Buddha.
□
"Peace, with justice and honour, is the fairest and most profitable of

possessions.''
Polybius (c. 204-122 B.C.), Histories 4:31.
□
"I prefer the most unfair peace to the most righteous war."
Cicero (106-43 B.C.), Epistola adAtticum.
□
"Fair peace is becoming to men; fierce anger belongs to beasts."
Ovid (43 B.C.-A.D. 18), Ars Amatoria.
□
"Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of
God."
Matthew 5:9.
□
"The disciples of the wise increase peace in the world."
Talmud, Berakoth 64a.
□
"The believers are but a single Brotherhood: so make peace and recon-
ciliation between your two (contending) brothers; and fear Allah, that
ye may receive mercy.''
Qur'an 49, 10.
□
''Amidst the calm and tranquility of peace the human race accomplishes
most freely and easily its given work . .. whence it is manifest that univer-
sal peace is the best of those things that are ordained for our beatitude.''
Dante Alighieri (1265-1321), De Monarcbia 1, 4.
□
"The most disadvantageous peace is better than the most just war."
Erasmus (1466-1536), Adagia.
□
I am Deganawidah and with the chiefs of the Five Nations
I plant the Tree of the Great Peace ...
If any man of any nation
Shall desire to obey the laws of the Great Peace
He may trace the roots to their source and be welcome
To shelter beneath the Great Peace ...
I Deganawidah
And the chiefs of our Five Nations of the Great Peace

We now uproot the tallest pine
into the cavity thereby made
we cast all weapons
Into the depths of the earth
Into the deep underneath ...
We cast all weapons of war
We bury them from sight forever ...
And we plant again the tree ...
Thus shall the Great Peace be established.
Iroquois poem, "The Tree of the Great Peace." Cited in Peace on
Earth: A Peace Anthology (Paris: UNESCO, 1980), 34-35.
D
" ... nature guarantees the coming of perpetual peace, through the natural
course of human propensities: not indeed with sufficient certainty to
enable us to prophesy the future of this ideal theoretically, but yet clear-
ly enough for practical purposes. And thus this guarantee of nature makes
it a duty that we should labour for this end, an end which is no mere
chimera ... and since peace cannot be effected or guaranteed without a
compact among nations, they must form an alliance of a peculiar kind,
which may be called a pacific alliance (Joedus pacificum), different from
a treaty of peace (pactum pacis), inasmuch as it would forever terminate
all wars, whereas the latter only ends one."
I. Kant (1724-1804), Perpetual Peace.
D
"Sooner or later mankind must come to one universal peace, unless our
race is to be destroyed by the increasing power of its own destructive in-
ventions; and that universal peace must needs take the form of a govern-
ment, that is to say, a law-sustaining organization, in the best sense of the
word religious-a government ruling men through the educated co-
ordination of their minds in a common conception of human history and
human destiny."
H.G. Wells (1866-1946), Crux Ansata.
D
"Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by
understanding."
A. Einstein (1879-1955), Notes on Pacifism.
D
"If we value our own lives, and the lives of our children and all children
everywhere, if we honour both the past and the future, then we must do
everything in our power to work non-violently for Peace."
Margaret Laurence, quoted in Canadian Woman Studies (6: 1), 122.

"We are so convinced that Peace is the goal of mankind in the process
of its growing self-awareness and of the development of society on the
face of the earth, that today, for the new year and for future years, we dare
to proclaim, as we did last year: Peace is possible . . . .
"Peace is possible only if it is considered a duty . .. Peace must take
hold of the conscience of men as a supreme ethical objective ... Peace
is above all an idea ... humanity must be at Peace, that is, united and con-
sistent in itself .. . .
''Peace is possible, if each one of us wants it; if each one of us loves
Peace ... defends Peace, works for Peace. Each one ofus must listen to
his own conscience to the impelling call: 'Peace depends on you too."'
Pope Paul VI (1897-1978), Peace Depends on You Too.
D
" ... may peace reign on earth, and may the gourd and the pot agree. May
their animals live in harmony and all evil speech be banished into the bush
and the virgin forest."
A prayer from Guinea. Cited in Peace on Earth, 35.
D
"More than an end to war, we want an end to the beginnings of all wars."
Franklin D. Roosevelt
D
"All the works of love are works of peace .... We do not need bombs and
guns; We need love and compassion .. .. If everyone could see the image
of God in his neighbour, do you think we should still need tanks and
generals?"
Mother Teresa, "A Meeting of the World Conference of Religion for
Peace;" Youth Corps Magazine, 1982.
D
"What nobler theme than the 'good of the world and the happiness of
the nations' can occupy our lives? The message of universal peace will
surely prevail. It is useless to combine or conspire against an idea which
has in it potency to create a new earth and a new heaven and to quicken
human beings with a holy passion of service."
Helen Keller. Quoted in The Baba 'i World 11 (1946-1950) (Wilmette,
Illinois: Baha'i Publishing Committee, 1952), 454.
D
"On the contrary, thanks to the unfailing grace of God, the loving-
kindness of His favored ones, the unrivaled endeavors of wise and capable
souls, and the thoughts and ideas of the peerless leaders of this age,
nothing whatsoever can be regarded as unattainable . Many a cause which
past ages have regarded as purely visionary, yet in this day has become

most easy and practicable. Why should this most great and lofty Cause-
the day-star of the firmament of true civilization and the cause of the
glory, the advancement, the well-being and the success of all humanity-
be regarded as impossible of achievement?"
'Abdu 'l-Baha, The Secret of Divine Civilization, 2nd ed. (Wilmette,
Illinois: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1970), 66.

Technology:
For War or Peace?
"The scientific and technological advances occurring in this unusually
blessed century portend a great surge forward in the social evolution
of the planet, and indicate the means by which the practical problems
of humanity may be solved ... . Tut barriers persist."
"Man has made tremendous strides in the area of technology in this cen-
tury. We now have everything from space-flight to insulin, from com-
puters to lasers, and from communications satellites to inoculations for
dozens of diseases that were once major killers. Nevertheless, societies
have chosen to devote much of their technology to the area of war. What
is needed is a major shift in priorities which would further the search for
a technology of peace.
Consider that in 1983 the world's military bill was close to U.S. $800
billion.
1)
A half day's military expenditures would finance the whole malaria
eradication program of the World Health Organization.
2)
The price of a modern tank-at least $1 million-could improve
storage facilities for 100,000 tons of rice and thus save 4 ,000 tons
or more annually. One person can live on little more than a pound
of rice a day. The same expenditure could buy 1,000 classrooms for
30,000 children.
3)
The cost of one jet fighter-$20 million-would pay for about
40,000 village pharmacies.
4)
One-half of 1 per cent of a single year's military expenditure would
pay for the farm equipment needed to increase food production and
provide near self-sufficiency in all food-deficit, low-income coun-
tries by 1990 ."
W. Brandt, "The North-South Challenge," World Press Review
31: 6 Oune 1984), 22-23 .
□
"One of the most puzzling aspects of the scientific and technological pro-
gress of humanity is the fact that much of man's scientific activities and

technology are used in the service of war. In 1978, 20 billion dollars were
spent on finding 'new ways to kill man.' And some of this amount went
to pay 500,000 scientists who are diligently searching for more
sophisticated methods to kill. This dedication to the creation of the
technology of war is primarily due to two misconceptions: the
misconception about the true nature of man and the misconception
about the true nature of the relationship between science and
religion . . . .
"If the human soul is not guided by spiritual, moral, and ethical
precepts, then it becomes solely preoccupied with the material side of
life and creates' conditions most suitable for the development of the
technology of war ....
"This is the condition of our world today. Many governments and
scientists are engaged in activities which cause evil, hurt, and destruc-
tion. These are the conditions which impelled Aurelio Peccei, in 1974,
to observe:
Our nations, instead of uniting in a supreme effort, are still egocen-
tric and antagonistic with each other and busy arming and trading
in all sorts of weapons. You know that the nuclear stock piles, already
in existence, pack so much explosive that they can wipe out mankind
in a few hours. Each one of us has, in those stockpiles, an endow-
ment of TNT or ordinary explosives equal to 12 tons. This is sheer
madness. But it is only the reflection of the moral disorder and
disintegration of a society which invests, every year, some of its best
scientific and political energies and between 6 and 8 percent of the
total world product in perfecting the doctrines, the technologies, the
armament of extermination. This is a society in which the tragic
irony exists that we trust security in what, using a trade word in
defence circles, is called M.A.D. (mad, mutual assured destruction).
"The human rational soul, however, once enlightened by the
spiritual teachings, can reconcile the supposedly irreconcilable realities
of science and religion and create a new technology of peace. In order
to comprehend better the concept of such a technology, we must return
to the issue of man's spiritual nature.
" ... the fundamental faculties of the soul are knowledge, love, and
will. These three faculties, although non-physical in essence, are never-
theless dependent upon physical instruments to manifest themselves in
this life. Thus, a thought or an idea can be transmitted only through
physical faculties and instruments such as speaking, writing, and visual
demonstrations, and tactile and other sensory modalities. Likewise, love
is shown through the faculties of touch, sight, speech, cooperative ac-
tivities, and a host of other processes, all of which are dependent upon
the use of the body. The same is true of human will.
"In addition, man invents instruments and objects to extend and
even surpass the potential of different parts of his body. Thus, man,
through the power of his soul, creates machines which allow him to fly,

to move quickly, to handle the most minute objects and to perform other
physical feats which would be otherwise not in the capacity of his body.
For example, man, with the help of his knowledge and his power of
understanding, not only sees and studies objects with his eyes, but ex-
pands the capacity of his eyes by inventing the microscope, the telescope,
the television, satellites, and other instruments that allow the human soul
to see ever deeper, farther and more clearly. The same is true with inven-
tions which broaden the scope of human capacity for hearing, touch ,
smell and taste.
"However, of all man's inventions, the most interesting and signifi-
cant are those inventions which facilitate and extend the work of his
brain, which is the seat and the main instrument of his soul. Here I am
referring to all machines and instruments which perform mathematical
and logical functions hitherto performed by only the most educated peo-
ple. The computer is an extension of the human brain and is, therefore,
another very important accessory to the human body, which, as a whole,
functions as a tool for the human soul. It would be a folly, a mistake of
immense gravity, if we were to see machines and other human inventions
as anything but extensions of the physical reality of man, which, in turn,
is meaningful and alive only if it is quickened, influenced, and directed
by the human power of understanding, which is the human soul. If man
decides, through the perversity of his own self, to abdicate his power and
control over to his inventions, then he decreases the world of life to a
world of mechanistic, meaningless, and destructive movement, the
movement of machines."
H.B. Danesh, Unity: The Creative Foundation of Peace (Ottawa:
Association for Baha'i Studies and Toronto: Fitzhenry & Whiteside,
1986), 73-76. Citation of Aurelio Peccei from Dilemmas of Modern
Man (Winnipeg, Can.: Great West Life Assurance Co. , 1975), 19.
D
"In other words, it is the whole question of developing proper social
mechanisms for the responsible implementation of new technologies that
needs to be addressed, and not just the particular question of applica-
tions of current nuclear technology. If the problem of the implementa-
tion of each new technology is treated in an ad hoe fashion, with a view
towards either avoiding public discussion or provoking public reaction
through strong condemnatory statements, the public will eventually
become mistrustful and insensitive. The fact that the public has remain-
ed largely unaware of the considerable in-depth discussion of moral and
ethical issues that has already taken place within industry and govern-
ment has important consequences for public opinion."
Baha'i Community of Canada, Submission to the Interfaith Program
for Public Awareness of Nuclear Issues, November 1, 1984.

The Spectre of War
"Flaws in the prevailing order are conspicuous in the inability of
sovereign states organized as United Nations to exorcize the spectre of
war . . . . "
In 1983 alone, some 45 nations or 1/4 of all the world's countries were
experiencing war of some sort. The bloodiest of those conflicts included
the following:
Cambodia/Kampuchea: Civil War and Foreign Invasion. Dead since
1970: 4 million
Indonesia: Guerrilla war. Dead since 1975: 100,000-250,000
Lebanon: Civil war. Dead since-1975 : 85,000
Afghanistan: Civil war. Dead since 1978: 100,000
/ran-Iraq. Conventional war. Dead since 1980: 100,000
Philippines: Guerrilla wars. Dead since 1972: 50,000
Vietnam-China : Conventional war. Dead since 1979: 47,000
El Salvador: Guerrilla war. Dead since 1977: over 30,000
Guatemala: Guerrilla war. Dead since 1982: 12,000-22,000
Ethiopia: Guerrilla war. Dead since 1962: 30,000
U.S. News and World Report (March 28, 1983), 11.
D
" . .. since the Second World War, 199 wars have been fought in the
world, 350 years have been spent on fighting them, 69 countries have
been directly the theatre of a war, and no fewer than 81 countries have
been directly or indirectly involved in these war conflicts since 1945 ."
Janez Stanovnik, "The Debit Balance of the Mistakes of Several
Decades'' in What Kind of a World A re ~
Leaving Our Children?
(Paris: UNESCO, 1978), 73.
D
The toll from these evils in this century alone is enormous. World War
One caused the deaths of some 8 ½ million soldiers and some 5 million
civilians. World War Two created even greater destruction with death tolls
estimated at between 35 and 60 million.

In the Iran-Iraq war, the struggle has intensified so much that by fall 1984
over 250,000 deaths µave been reported.
[Editor's note]
□
''Gil Elliot made a valiant effort to count 'the number of man-made deaths
in the twentieth century.' He arrived at a total of 110 million, which he
regards as 'a reasonably conservative estimate ' . . . . The 110 million
fatalities (from 1900 to 1970) include 38 million soldiers. Since these
losses result from war and civil war, they cannot properly be attributed
to crimes against humanity (in a legal sense) .... To repeat, those are con-
servative estimates and it is entirely possible, even probable, that
deliberate crimes against humanity cost the lives of substantially more
than 100 million. That means that during the twentieth century, one out
of every 30 inhabitants of the earth was killed through government
criminality .... This does not include the toll exacted by private criminals,
routine crime-fighting by the police, and legitimate death penalties."
K. Glaser and S.T. Possony, Victims of Politics: The State and Human
Rights (New York: Columbia University Press, 1979), 43-44.

Aggression
and Human Nature
'1ndeed, so much have aggression and conflict come to characterize our
social, economic and religious systems, that many have succumbed to
the view that such behaviour is intrinsic to human nature and therefore
ineradicable."
"A number of views of the nature of man are currently advanced, some
of them quite contradictory, and most of them failing to alleviate the
ongoing destructiveness of contemporary life because they do not take
into account ma.en's spiritual a..s well as his material nature.
"Floyd W. Watson, in The Idea of Man, says:
If it is true, in general, that "ideas have consequences," then man's
ideas about man have the most far-reaching consequences of all.
Upon them may depend the structure of government, the patterns
of culture, the purpose of education, the design of the future and the
human or inhuman uses of human beings.
"Watson goes on to describe the major prevailing ideas of the nature
of man, giving three models: man as beast, man as machine, and man as
'a free agent-a creative actor on the world stage.'
"In the early decades of this century, whose wars have made
anything experienced by previous decades seem insignificant, Freud
postulated that man had been created at the mercy of his instincts, which
were seen to be essentially of two kinds: life and death, love and hatred
(i.e. , the sexual and the aggressive instincts). Elaborating on this theory,
he wrote that human instincts are 'only of two kinds: those which seek
to preserve and unite, and those which seek to destroy and kill .'
"The discouraging view of aggression that Freud cast upon
psychological thought is still less pessimistic than that of Lorenz and other
ethologists. Gorney observes that, to Lorenz, love is nothing but made-
over aggression, and that the elimination of aggression would also
eliminate love."
H. Danesh, "The Violence-Free Society," Baba'£ Studies (October,
1979), 3. Citation of Floyd W. Watson from The Idea of Man (New
York: Delacorte Press, 1976), 11-12.

"If it were truly the case that the human animal is unswervingly propelled
toward open conflict with members of its own species, then the prospects
for long-term tenure of technological society on earth would be very poor
indeed. With the means of mass destruction at hand, it would be mere-
ly a matter of time before their use dealt a blow to life on earth from which
it might never recover. Those who argue that humans are innately ag-
gressive must therefore be pointing to the inevitability of such an event.
Unfortunately, it does not necessarily follow that a humanity not harbor-
ing inbuilt aggressiveness will avoid reaching the same end, as our recent
history and current political posturing so clearly warns us. The possibility
of a massive international confrontation is real . ...
"Primates, particularly the higher primates, are all social animals:
they live in groups and engage in complex social interactions. It is,
therefore, not surprising that, as primates, humans too are social animals.
But unlike any other primates we extend social behavior into the patterns
of subsistence. The core of human evolution was the social group focused
on a food-sharing economy: plant foods and meat were brought to a
home base and shared. Without a keenly developed sense of coopera-
tion the social organization needed for day-to-day division of activities
between members of the group, which is the basis of the mixed economy,
could not have worked.
"Because the mixed economy of hunting and gathering brings with
it a much more efficient exploitation of resources in the environment and
also sharpens the edge of social interactions-both of which enhance
adaptability of the human animal-evolutionary forces favored its
development. It is probably the single most important factor in the
emergence of mankind. And cooperation was an essential element of its
success. More than any other piece of social behavior, the motivation to
cooperate in group effort is a direct legacy of the nature of human
evolution.
"To insist that blind cooperation is a universal aspect of human
behavior would, of course, be to negate the flexibility and independence
of the human mind. What is in us is a very readily-tapped tendency for
group identification and group endeavor. Most communities have social
rules and customs (the stuff of culture) that provide a framework through
which 'groupness' is expressed. The rules and customs of different com-
munities may vary, and ethnic groups may express their identification
through such material channels as self-decoration or domestic architec-
ture. But, throughout, the goal is the same: the sense of belonging to and
therefore contributing to the group. We all experience such an urge, and
it may extend from the need to be 'accepted' by a group as small as
perhaps three or four people at school, in college, or within the local
community, all the way to supporting a national sports team along with
tens of thousands of other fans."
Richard E. Leakey and Roger Lewin, Origins: What New Discoveries
Reveal About the Emergence of Our Species and its Possible Future

(New York: E.P. Dutton, 1977), 244-248.
□
'' . . . in The Anatomy of Human Destructiveness, Erich Fromm reviews
the evidence against the instinctiveness thesis and reaches the conclu-
sion that data from the neurosciences, animal behaviour studies and the
fields of paleontology and anthropology indicate that the instinctiveness
interpretation of human destructiveness is not tenable. Eron and
associates, through a 10-year longitudinal study, concluded . that ag-
gressive behaviour is shaped by learning through socialization practices.
"Still others consider violence to be the result of both instinctual and
educational forces. However, in spite of obvious differences between
these various groups regarding the roots of violence, they all view man
as an animal.
"The notion of man as a biochemical machine also has strong sup-
porters and is well-accepted in many scientific and ideological circles.
Such a view considers all human activities to be a reaction to a specific
stimulus. As such, human beings are perceived to be amenable to
manipulation in the same manner that computers and robots respond to
programming. Robots, however, are merely well-programmed machines,
and, like animals, who act on instincts of aggression, competition and
territoriality, are unable to make conscious moral choices or distinguish
between right and wrong.
"Still another notion of man considers him to be essentially sinful,
and utilizes guilt and shame as the main motivating forces in shaping his
life processes. Like the other views mentioned it also has the quality of
degrading man, and either justifying his most primitive and animal-like
emotions and actions, or creating a state of conflict and despair in him.
"The Baha'i teachings regarding the nature of man, on the other
hand, clearly state that man possesses both a spiritual and material nature.
'Abdu'l-Baha elaborates upon this:
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature and his
material or lower nature. In one he approaches God, in the other he
lives for the world alone. Signs of both these natures are to be found
in men. In his material aspect he expresses untruth, cruelty and in-
justice; all these are the outcome of his lower nature. The attributes
of his divine nature are shown forth in love, mercy, kindness, truth
and justice ....
"For the individual to acquire these spiritual qualities, he needs to
be illuminated and guided by the divine spirit which reaches him through
the teachings of the Manifestation of God for his age. If the individual
allows his rational soul and his power of understanding to receive this
spiritual illumination and guidance, his sublime spiritual nature will
manifest itself. On the other hand, if he doesn't use or develop his
spiritual qualities, ' ... they become atrophied, enfeebled and at last in-
capable.' The outcome of such a process is that the material qualities of

man take ascendance and consequently ' ... the unhappy, misguided man
becomes more savage, more unjust, more vile, more cruel, more
malevolent than the lower animals themselves.'
"It is this all-encompassing and spiritual education which helps the
individual become aware of his essential nobility and learn to safeguard
it."
H. Danesh, "The Violence-Free Society," Baha'i Studies (October,
1979), 3-5. Citation of 'Abdu'l-Baha from Paris Talks, 11th ed.
(London: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1971), 60.

Collective Growth
of Mankind
"The Baba 'i Faith regards the current world confusion and calamitous
condition in human affairs as a natural phase in an organic process
leading ultimately and irresistibly to the unification of the human race
in a single social order whose boundaries are those of the planet."
"Baha'u'llah teaches that mankind as a whole experiences stages of
growth and development similar to those experienced by individual
human beings. Thus, at one time, mankind collectively was in its infan-
cy, at another time, in its childhood, and now is going through a period
of adolescence, rapidly approaching its maturity. Shoghi Effendi, in refer-
ring to this growth process, describes the present state of mankind in the
following manner:
The long ages of infancy and childhood, through which the human
race had to pass, have receded into the background. Humanity is now
experiencing the commotions invariably associated with the most
turbulent stage of its evolution, the stage of adolescence, when the
impetuosity of youth and its vehemence reach their climax, and
must gradually be superseded by the calmness, the wisdom and the
maturity that characterize the stage of manhood. Then will the
human race reach that stature of ripeness which will enable it to ac-
quire all the powers and capacities upon which its ultimate develop-
ment must depend.
''Adolescence is a period of rapid change, of upheavals and confu-
sion. The adolescent needs an appropriate environment in which he can
sail through this turbulent stage and arrive at the calm shores of
adulthood. If the adolescent is not provided with such an environment,
his very integrity is threatened and conflicts arise. Emotions and passions
take charge of him and, in his lonely and misguided struggle, he succumbs
to destruction, violence or apathy.
"Mankind, now in its adolescence, is gradually realizing that it is in-
capable of directing its own growth alone, and is slowly becoming aware
that a total change in the thinking, life-style, attitudes, beliefs and con-
sciousness of humanity must precede any improvement in its present

dilemma.''
H. Danesh, "The Violence-Free Society," 22. Citation of Shoghi Ef-
fendi from The World Order of Baha'u'llah, 202.
□
"Because the establishment of world unity and a planetary civilization
represents the consummation of mankind's development on this planet,
it represents the 'coming of age' of humanity, the maturity of the human
race. Shoghi Effendi expressed this idea as follows:
The Revelation of Baha'u 'llah, whose supreme mission is none other
than the achievement of this organic and spiritual unity of the whole
body of nations, should, if we be faithful to its implications, be
regarded as signalizing through its advent the coming of age of the
entire human race. It should be viewed ... as marking the last and
highest stage in the stupendous evolution of man's collective life on
this planet. The emergence of a world community, the con-
sciousness of world citizenship, the founding of a world civilization
and culture ... should, by their very nature, be regarded, as far as this
planetary life is concerned, as the furthermost limits in the organiza-
tion of human society, though man, as an individual, will, nay must
indeed as a result of such a consummation, continue indefinitely to
progress and develop.
"The different stages in mankind's development are regarded as quite
similar to the stages in the life of the individual. The current stage is
described as that of adolescence, the stage immediately preceding full
maturity ...
That mystic, all-pervasive, yet indefinable change, which we
associate with the stage of maturity inevitable in the life of the in-
dividual ... must ... have its counterpart in the evolution of the
organization of human society. A similar stage must sooner or later
be attained in the collective life of mankind, producing an even more
striking phenomenon in world relations, and endowing the whole
human race with such potentialities of well-being as shall provide,
throughout the succeeding ages, the chief incentive required for the
eventual fulfillment of its high destiny.''
W. Hatcher andJ. D. Martin, The Baba 'i Faith: The Emerging
Global Religion (New York: Harper and Row, 1984), 79-80.
Citations of Shoghi Effendi from The World Order of
Baha'u'llah, 163-164.

The Transcendent Nature
of the Human Spirit
"The endowments which distinguish the human race from all other
forms of life are summed up in what is known as the human spirit; the
mind is its essential quality. These endowments have enabled humanity
to build civilizations and to prosper materially. But such ac-
complishments alone have never satisfied the human spirit, whose
mysterious nature inclines it towards transcendence, a reaching toward
an invisible realm, towards the ultimate reality, that unknowable
essence of essences called God."
"There is within each of us a potential for goodness beyond our imagin-
ing; for giving which seeks no reward; for listening without judgement;
for loving unconditionally.
"It is our goal to reach that potential. We can approach it, in ways
large and small every minute of every day, if we try.
"When we have found that path, we have built our own 'home of
peace' inside of ourselves."
Dr. Elizabeth Kubler-Ross, Working It Through (New York: Mac-
Millan Publishers, 1982), 29.
□
"Baha'u'llah described God's purpose for man in the following way:
The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be,
to enable him to know his Creator and to attain His Presence. To this
most excellent aim, this supreme objective, all the heavenly and the
divinely-revealed and weighty Scriptures unequivocally bear
witness.
"Life should be seen as an eternal process of joyous spiritual
discovery and growth: in the beginning stages of earthly life, the in-
dividual undergoes a period of training and education which, if it is suc-
cessful, gives him the basic intellectual and spiritual tools necessary for
continued growth. When one attains physical maturity in adulthood, he
becomes responsible for his further progress, which now depends en-
tirely on the efforts he himself makes. Through the daily struggles of

material existence, one gradually deepens his understanding of the
spiritual principles underlying reality, and this understanding enables him
to relate more effectively to himself, to others, and to God. After physical
death, the individual continues to grow and develop in the spiritual
world, which is greater than the physical world, just as the physical world
is greater than the world we inhabit while in our mother's womb.
''This last statement is based on the Baha'i concept of the soul and
of life after physical death. According to the Baha'i teachings, man's true
nature is spiritual. Beyond the physical body, each human being has a ra-
tional soul, created by God. This soul is a nonmaterial entity, which does
not depend on the body. Rather the body serves as its vehicle in the
physical world. The soul of an individual comes into being at the moment
the physical body is conceived and continues to exist after the death of
the physical body. The soul (also called the spirit) of the individual is the
seat or locus of his personality, self, and consciousness.
"The evolution or development of the soul and its capacities is the
basic purpose of human existence. This evolution is towards God and its
motive force is knowledge of God and love for Him. As we learn about
God, our love for him increases; and this, in turn, enables us to attain a
closer communication with our Creator. Also, as we draw closer to God,
our character becomes more refined and our actions reflect more and
more the attributes and qualities of God . ...
"The Baha'i writings refer to the gradual evolution or development
of the individual soul as 'spiritual progress'. 'Spiritual progress' means ac-
quiring the capacity to act in conformity with the Will of God and to ex-
press the attributes and spirit of God in one's dealings with one's self and
with other human beings. Baha'u 'llah teaches that the only true and en-
during happiness for man lies in the pursuit of spiritual development."
Hatcher/Martin, The Baba 'i Faith , 100-101. Citation of Baha'u 'llah
from Gleanings, 70.
D
" . . . how difficult it is so to dismiss the universe, our world, the animal,
and vegetable world, and man. How clearly one sees a plan in everything.
How unthinkable it is that the miraculous development that has brought
man's body, brain and spirit to what it is, should cease. Why would it
cease?
"Not the body, which is only an instrument, but the invisible spark
or fire within the body which makes man one with the wider creation."
Queen Marie of Rumania from a letter appearing in the Toronto
Daily Star (September 28, 1926). Quoted in The Baha 'i World 11
(1946-1950), 427.

Progressive Revelation
"The religions brought to mankind by a succession of spiritual
luminaries have been the primary link between humanity and that
ultimate reality [Godl and have galvanized and refined mankind's
capacity to achieve spiritual success together with social progress."
In its statement addressed to the peoples of the world, the Universal
House of Justice makes use of a number of terms, such as "spiritual
luminaries," "Educators," "Founders," and "Prophets of God" which
refer to the Baha'i concept of the Manifestations of God, and which in
turn relate to the theme of the Progressive Revelation of the religions of
mankind.
D
"The Revelation proclaimed by Baha'u11ah, His followers believe, is divine
in origin, all-embracing in scope, broad in its outlook, scientific in its
method, humanitarian in its principles and dynamic in the influence it
exerts on the hearts and minds of men. The mission of the Founder of
their Faith, they conceive ... to be to proclaim that religious truth is not
absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is continuous and pro-
gressive, that the Founders of all past religions, though different in the
non-essential aspects of their teachings, 'abide in the same Tabernacle,
soar in the same heaven, are seated upon the same throne, utter the same
speech and proclaim the same Faith.' His Cause, they have already
demonstrated, stands identified with, and revolves around, the princi-
ple of the organic unity of mankind as representing the consummation
of the whole process of human evolution. This final stage in this stupen-
dous evolution, they assert, is not only necessary but inevitable, that it
is gradually approaching, and that nothing short of the celestial poten-
cy with which a divinely ordained Message can claim to be endowed can
succeed in establishing it."
Shoghi Effendi, Selected Writings of Shoghi Effendi (Wilmette, Ill:
Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1975), 1.

"Seen in perspective, there is nothing unnatural about the appearance of
these Educators. They come forward as part of what might be called a
spiritual law, in response to the needs of society, at times of great moral
confusion and despair which occur with the decline of established beliefs
or because new circumstances have arisen for which traditional answers
are no longer suitable. Phrased in another way, these flashes of light oc-
cur when society reaches a point of explosion, just as in nature, at critical
points, a solid will turn into liquid, a liquid into gas, a seed will burst in-
to a plant, a chrysalis into a butterfly.
"The Educators are the Founders of the great religions. Many lived
before recorded history; others have come to societies who have lost
much of their record of the past. Those Whom we do have some
knowledge of are Abraham, Moses, Krishna, Buddha, Zoroaster, Jesus,
Muhammad, and now the Bab and Baha'u'llah .
"Baha'i Writings distinguish two aspects to the teachings of these
Educators. First, they all have in common the same universal themes
which must govern man's attitude toward God, his fellowmen and the
universe at large: love, justice, detachment from personal desire, honesty,
selflessness, faithfulness, humility, forgiveness, charity, obedience, mercy,
tmstworthiness, sincerity, tmthfulness, moderation. These tmths are not
just words. When society forgets them, the resulting pain is sharp and
deep. Secondly, each includes social teachings appropriate to the level
of development of the society existing at the time . . . .
"Not only did the Educators recognize Their Predecessors but They
have also had the vision to see that the need would continue. In Their
teachings They would refer to Their own return, not as a bodily reincar-
nation as some have mistakenly believed, but in the spirit ....
"This theme is of the utmost importance in providing a basis for the
unity of mankind. It means that men of all religions may have a common
belief concerning the most significant aspects of existence, without hav-
ing to deny the essence of their previous belief. If men were to remain
divided on questions concerning their deepest feelings and beliefs then
there could be no true brotherhood, at best a fragile tolerance based on
indifference. The theme is also of considerable significance for those who
have in the past turned against religion, because it shows that when
religion is truly practised it is not exclusive, narrow, and a source of in-
cessant quarrelling but the instrument for establishing mutual understan-
ding and appreciation between all men.
John Huddleston, The Earth Is but One Country (London: Baha'f
Publishing Trust, 1976), 36-39.
□
"How often in the past the divinely revealed Laws have set in motion
social trends destined to completely reshape the affairs of men. Who shall
dare to limit the effect of the ten commandments of Moses? Who can
deny the effect of the Laws of Jesus? Who can fail to see the rise of the

Arabic people in the middle ages, following the proclamation of Muham-
mad's Law? Every stability we claim must acknowledge as its source the
coming of Divine Law to a people."
Dorothy Baker, "The Most Great Peace," The Baba 'i World 10
0944-1946),656-657.

Role of Religion
in Achieving World Peace
"Writing of religion as a social force, Baba 'u 'lldh said: 'Religion is the
greatest of all means for the establishment of order in the world and for
the peaceful contentment of all that dwell therein."'
"The fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God and His Religion
is to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the human race, and
to foster the spirit of love and fellowship amongst men. Suffer it not to
be.come a source of dissension and discord, of hate and enmity."
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahd'u'lldh, 215.
□
"Religion is verily the chief instrument for the establishment of order in
the world and of tranquillity amongst its peoples."
Baha'u'llah, Tablets of Bahd'u'lldh, 63-64.
□
"The religion of God is for love and unity; make it not the cause of en-
mity and dissension."
Baha'u'llah, Tablets of Bahd'u 'lldh, p. 220.
□
"Even as the love of God gives a man new values with which to measure
other men and his relationship with them, it also gives him a deeper
regard for the law and order which are the basis for any progressive so-
ciety. Loyalty to spiritual principle and conscientious use of it in human
affairs is the beginning of social order and security. The spiritual laws of
God give men his great ethical standards. Belief in God and sincere ef-
fort to live one's faith are the generative forces of man's conscience. When
human conscience and social ethics are united in their objectives there
is cooperation between inner and outer disciplines. The result is a
matured and refined individual and society."
Elsie Austin, "World Unity as a Way of Life," The Bahd'i World 11
(1946-1950), 697.

''One of the most fateful attitudes of contemporary thought is the naive
belief that all political and social problems could and should be solved
immediately, i.e. the optimistic belief 'that there is a ready-made, im-
mediate answer to all problems and misfortunes, and that only the
malevolence of enemies stands in the way of its being instantly applied'.
No virtue is so rare in our society as patience. For this reason our society
has been called the instant society. But as Georg Christoph Lichtenberg
rightly remarks: 'Wanting to do everything at once destroys everything
at once.; The idea that the social problems of mankind and all other pro-
blems could be solved quickly and immediately, that the conflict-free
society could be established if people only decided unreservedly to
destroy completely all the present structures, is just as naive and
unrealistic as the chiliastic expectation that with the second coming of
Christ everything will be changed at once. Peace and justice will be the
fruit of the spiritual rebirth of mankind, a complete change in the con-
sciousness of the new man, a new order and a laborious process of
construction."
Udo Schaefer, The Imperishable Dominion: The Baba 'i Faith and
the Future of Mankind, trans. Janet Rawling-Keitel, David Hopper,
Patricia Crampton (Oxford: George Ronald, 1983), 141.
D
Goals for Mankind: A Report to the Club of Rome on the New Horizons
of Global Community by Ervin Laszlo et al., reviews the role of major
religions in establishing peace and unity. In their review the authors
"analyze only the religions which influence vast numbers of people"
although they recognize, at the same time, "that several smaller religious
groups exercise important and relevant forms of influence (the principle
aim of the Baha'i Faith, for example, is world unification)."
D
"Judaism sees man as a partner with God in the ongoing work of crea-
tion. The exalted Jewish conception of man as 'the image of God' calls
man to the creative human tasks which reflect the labors of the Divine
Creator himself."
Ervin Laszlo, et al., Goals for Mankind: A Report of the Club of
Rome on the New Horizons of Global Community (New York: E.P.
Dutton, 1977), 370.
D
" ... the Christian Churches are making remarkable progress in overcom-
ing ancient feuds among themselves as well as with non-Christians and
even atheists, and encouraging the growth of a new humanism which em-
braces all people."
Laszlo, 376.

"Islam possesses rich moral and spiritual resources for the future of
mankind. The emphasis of Islam on human fraternity, its articulation of
the universal dimension of what it means to be human, its conviction that
man is always homo religiosus and that, by God's grace, he can make the
earth his provisional home-these are recurring themes in the history and
thought of Islam, and they could inspire greater solidarity between
Moslems and the rest of the world community."
Laszlo, 380.
D
"Central to Hinduism is the cosmic principle that the unity of the
Creator's marvelous phenomena is expressed through diversity, as the dif-
ferent instruments and harmonies blend in an orchestra. Any man can
develop his atman (soul) and attain the cosmic consciousness by his own
efforts. He does not need to believe in anything, even in God, in order
to set out on this path. He simply has to tread the path, for when he gets
to his destination, he will 'know '.
"Hinduism, like most of the great religions, affirms that man has free
will. He can attune himself to the cosmic harmony, thus expressing
creativity (goodness); he can remain inert; or he can behave in a destruc-
tive way, thus expressing evil."
Laszlo, 383.
D
"Identification with others is cultivated by Buddhists in meditations
specifically devoted to the heightening of capacity for loving-kindness
and the corollary virtues, compassion, joy in the joy of others, and
impartiality."
Laszlo, 388.
D
"The Chinese tradition embodied in Confucianism and Taoism holds a
unified concept of man in relation to other men in society, and to other
things in nature. There is an interdependence among all things and all
acts, both psychological and physical . . .. "
Laszlo, 391.
D
"This African sense of community could be instrumental in extending
the solidarity of Africans from the local village and tribe not only to their
newly independent nations, but to the African continent and beyond that
to mankind as a whole."
Laszlo, 393.

The Golden Rule
''The teaching that we should treat others as we ourselves would wish
to be treated, an ethic variously repeated in all the great religions . . . . "
Buddhism:
"Hurt not others in ways that you yourself would find hurtful."
Udana-Varqa, 5:18.
□
Zoroastrianism:
"That nature only is good when it shall not do unto another
whatever is not good for its own self."
Dadistan-i Dinik, 94:5.
□
Judaism:
"What is hateful to you, do not to your fellow men. That is the en-
tire Law, all the rest is commentary."
The Talmud, Shabbat, 31a.
□
Hinduism:
"This is the sum of all true righteousness: deal with others as thou
wouldst thyself be dealt by. Do nothing to thy neighbour which thou
wouldst not have him do to thee after."
The Mahabharata.
□
Christianity:
"As ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise."
Luke 6:31.
''All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do
ye even so to them: For this is the law and the prophets."
Matthew 7:12.

Islam:
"No one of you is a believer until he desires for his brother that which
he desires for himself."
Sunnah.
□
Taoism:
The good man "ought to pity the malignant tendencies of others; to
rejoice over their excellence; to help them in their straits; to regard
their gains as if they were his own, and their losses in the same way."
The Thai-Shang, 3.
□
Confucianism:
"Surely it is the maxim ofloving-kindness: Do not unto others that
you would not have them do unto you."
Analects, XV, 23.
□
Baha'i:
"It is Our wish and desire that every one of you may become a source
of all goodness unto men, and an example of uprightness to
mankind. Beware lest ye prefer yourselves above your neighbours."
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, 315.
"Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself."
Baha'u'llah, Tablets of Baha'u'llah, 71.
''And among the teachings of Baha'u 'llah is voluntary sharing of one's
property with others among mankind. This voluntary sharing is
greater than equality, and consists in this, that man should not prefer
himself to others, but rather should sacrifice his life and property
for others."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of
'Abdu'l-Baha, (Haifa: Baha'i World Centre, 1978), 302.

Substitute Faiths
"How tragic is the record of the substitute faiths that the worldly-wise
of our age have created. In the massive disillusionment of entire
populations who have been taught to worship at their altars can be read
history's irreversible verdict on their value."
" ... It would be perhaps impossible to find a nation of people not in a
state of crisis today. The materialism, the lack of true religion and the con-
sequent baser forces in human nature which are being released, have
brought the whole world to the brink of probably the greatest crisis it has
ever faced or will have to face."
Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Baha'i News 304, 2.
□
"Humanity has, alas, with increasing insistence, preferred, instead of
acknowledging and adoring the Spirit of God as embodied in His religion
in this day, to worship those false idols, untruths and half-truths, which
are obscuring its religions, corrupting its spiritual life, convulsing its
political institutions, corroding its social fabric, and shattering its
economic structure.
"Not only have the peoples of the earth ignored, and some of them
even assailed, a Faith which is at once the essence, the promise, the recon-
ciler, and the unifier of all religions, but they have drifted away from their
own religions, and set up on their subverted altars other gods wholly alien
not only to the spirit but to the traditional forms of their ancient faiths .. ..
''God Himself has indeed been dethroned from the hearts of men,
and an idolatrous world passionately and clamorously hails and worships
the false gods which its own idle fancies have fatuously created, and its
misguided hands so impiously exalted. The chief idols in the desecrated
temple of mankind are none other than the triple gods of Nationalism ,
Racialism, and Communism, at whose altars governments and peoples,
whether democratic or totalitarian, at peace or at war, of the East or of
the West, Christian or Islamic, are, in various forms and in different
degrees, now worshipping. Their high priests are the politicians and the
worldly-wise, the so-called sages of the age; their sacrifice, the flesh and

blood of the slaughtered multitudes; their incantations, outworn shib-
boleths and insidious and irreverent formulas; their incense, the smoke
of anguish that ascends from the lacerated hearts of the bereaved, the
maimed, and the homeless.
"The theories and policies, so unsound, so pernicious, which deify
the state and exalt the nation above mankind, which seek to subordinate
the sister races of the world to one single race, which discriminate be-
tween the black and the white, and which tolerate the dominance of one
privileged class over all others-these are the dark, the false, and crook-
ed doctrines for which any man or people who believes in them, or acts
upon them, must, sooner or later, incur the wrath and chastisement of
God."
Shoghi Effendi, Guidance for Today and Tomorrow (London: Baha'i
Publishing Trust, 1953), 158-160.

Disarmament
"Banning nuclear weapons, prohibiting the use of poison gases or
outlawin8_ serm warfare will not remove the root causes of war."
"O rulers of the Earth! Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need
no more armaments save in a measure to safeguard your territories and
dominions. Beware lest ye disregard the counsel of the All-Knowing, the
Faithful.
"Be united, 0 kings of the earth, for thereby will the tempests of
discord be stilled amongst you, and your people find rest, if ye be of them
that comprehend. Should any one among you take up arms against
another, rise ye all against him, for this is naught but manifest justice."
Baha'u 'llah, The Proclamation of Baba 'u 'llah (Haifa: Baha'i World
Centre, 1972), 12-13.
□
"The Great Being, wishing to reveal the prerequisites of the peace and
tranquillity of the world and the advancement of its peoples, hath writ-
ten: The time must come when the imperative necessity for the holding
of a vast, an all-embracing assemblage of men will be universally real-
ized. The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and, par-
ticipating in its deliberations, must consider such ways and means as will
lay the foundations of the world's Great Peace amongst men. Such a peace
demandeth that the Great Powers should resolve, for the sake of the tran-
quillity of the peoples of the earth, to be fully reconciled among
themselves. Should any king take up arms against another, all should
unitedly arise and prevent him. If this be done, the nations of the world
will no longer require armaments, except for the purpose of preserving
the security of their realms and of maintaining internal order within their
territories ... .''
Baha'u'llah , Gleanings, 249.
□
"Compose your differences, and reduce your armaments, that the burden
of your expenditures may be lightened, and that your minds and hearts

may be tranquillized. Heal the dissensions that divide you, and ye will
no longer be in need of any armaments except what the protection of
your cities and territories demandeth ."
Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, 250-251.
□
" It is their duty [the Sovereigns] to convene an all-inclusive assembly,
which either they themselves or their ministers will attend, and to en-
force whatever measures are required to establish unity and concord
amongst men. They must put away the weapons of war, and turn to the
instruments of universal reconstruction. Should one king rise up against
another, all the other kings must arise to deter him. Arms and armaments
will, then , be no more needed beyond that which is necessary to insure
the internal security of their respective countries .
"In this land [Persia], every time men are conscripted for the army,
a great terror seizeth the people. Every nation augmenteth, every year,
its forces, for their ministers of war are insatiable in their desire to add
fresh recruits to their battalions."
Baha'u 'llah, Epistle to the Son of the Woif (Wilmette, Ill.: Baha'f
Publishing Trust, 1971), 30-31.
□
" It is vitally important, too, that the discussion of the peaceful use of
nuclear technology be divorced from questions of nuclear armaments
where there is no necessary connection between the two. To use, for ex-
ample, illustrations of atomic destruction in literature which treats
domestic industrial questions is morally indefensible; a responsible
public needs accurate information to allay their unfounded fears as much
as they need assurance that the possible misuses of the products of the
nuclear fuel cycle or its strategic risks have not been dismissed."
Baha'f Community of Canada, Submission to the Interfaith Program
for Public Awareness of Nuclear Issues, ovember 1, 1984.

Declarations and Conventions
of the United Nations
"Despite the obvious short-comings of the United Nations, the more than
two score declarations and conventions adopted by that organization,
even where governments have not yet been enthusiastic in their com-
mitment, have given ordinary people a sense of a new lease on life."
• Convention against discrimination in education (UNESCO)
• Convention concerning discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation (ILO)
• Convention concerning freedom of the right to organize
• Convention for the protection of cultural property in the event of arm-
ed conflict
• Convention for the suppression of the traffic in persons and of the ex-
ploitation of the prostitution of others
• Convention on fishing and conservation of the living resources of the
high seas
• Convention on consular relations
• Convention on diplomatic relations
• Convention on international liability for damage caused by space
objects
• Convention on registration of objects launched into outer space
• Convention on special missions
• Convention on the abolition of slavery
• Convention on the continental shelf
• Convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination
• Convention on the high seas
• Convention on the international rights of correction
• Convention on the law of treaties
• Convention on the prevention and punishment of crimes against in-
ternational persons, including diplomatic agents
• Convention on the political rights of women
• Convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of
genocide
• Convention on the privileges and immunities of the U.N.

• Convention on the prohibition of the development, production and
stockpiling of bacteriological (biological) and toxic weapons and on
their destruction
• Convention on the recovery abroad of maintenance
• Convention on the representation of states in their relations with in-
ternational organizations of a universal character
• Convention on the suppression and punishment of the crime of
apartheid
• Convention on the territorial sea and the contiguous zone
• Convention relating to the status of refugees
• Universal copyright convention
• Universal declaration of human rights
• Declaration of legal principles governing the activities of states in the
exploitation and use of outer space
• Declaration of principles governing the sea-bed and the ocean floor,
and the subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of national jurisdiction
• Declaration of principles of international law concerning friendly rela-
tions and cooperation among states
• Declaration on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination
• Declaration on the elimination of discrimination against women
• Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and
peoples
• Declaration on the inadmissibility of intervention on the domestic af-
fairs of states and the protection of their independence and sovereignty
• Declaration on the prohibition of the use of nuclear and thermonuclear
weapons
• Declaration on social progress and development
• Declaration on territorial asylum
• Declaration on the promoting among youth of the ideal of peace,
mutual respect and understanding between peoples
• Declaration on the rights of the child
• Declaration on the strengthening of international security
□
It is important to note that in passing a declaration or convention rather
than a resolution, the members of the United Nations want to make the
point that these specific issues are of particular concern. Nevertheless,
like U.N. resolutions, U.N. conventions and declarations are merely
recommendatory in nature with no instrumentalities of enforcement.
□
Further information concerning the declarations and the conventions
and their effectiveness can be had from the following sources:
Bokor-Szego, H. The Role of the United Nations in International
Legislation. Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1978.

Murphy, J. F. The United Nations and the Control of International
Violence. Totowa, N.J.: Rowman & Allanheld, 1982.

Barriers to Peace:
Racism
"Racism, one of the most baneful and persistent evils, is a major bar-
rier to peace."
Article 1
''All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are
endowed with reason and conscience and should act toward one another
in a spirit of brotherhood."
Article 2
"Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this
Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex,
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin,
property, birth or other status . .. . "
From the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Adopted by the
General Assembly of the U.N. , 10 December, 1948.
□
"So I say to you, my friends, that even though we must face the difficulties
of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted
in the American dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out
the true meaning of its creed-we hold these truths to be self evident,
that all men are created equal.
"I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, sons of
former slaves and sons of former slave-owners will be able to sit down
together at the table of brotherhood . .. .
''I have a dream my four little children will one day live in a nation
where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the con-
tent of their character. I have a dream today!"
Martin Luther King, Jr., From a speech made in Washington, D.C. ,
28 August, 1963.

Barriers to Peace
Disparity Between Rich and Poor
"The inordinate disparity between rich and poor, a source of acute suf-
fering, keeps the world in a state of instability, virtually on the brink
of war."
''More than one-fifth of the people of the world are undernourished or
hungry, at least 500-600 million, possibly 1 billion."
P. Stephenson, Handbook of World Development: The Guide to the
Brandt Report (Harlow: Longman, 1981), 31.
□
"The World Bank estimates that 800 million people are living in destitu-
tion, so 'almost 40 per cent of the people in the South are surviv-
ing ... with income judged insufficient to secure the basic necessities of
life.'
.
'' ... the world's military spending dwarfs any spending on develop-
ment. Total military expenditures are approaching $450 billion a year,
of which over half is spent by the Soviet Union and the United States,
while annual spending on official development aid is only $20 billion."
Brandt Commission, North-South: A Programme for Survival (Lon-
don: Pan Books, 1980), 117.
□
In 1985, total military spending was close to $800 billion U.S.
[Editor's note]
□
" ... the United States, with only 6 percent of the world's population, con-
sumes about 30 percent of the total energy production of the world and
comparable amounts of other resources, and the rest of the 'haves',
although only about half as prodigal as the United States, still consume
resources far out of proportion to their population; conversely, per capita
consumption of resources in the Third World ranges from one-tenth to
one-hundredth that in the 'have' countries."
W Ophuls, Ecology and the Politics of Scarcity (San Francisco: W.H.
Freeman, 1977), 210-211.

"We too often forget that even today the depth of human suffering is im-
mense. Every two seconds of this year [1983] a child will die of hunger
or disease. And no statistic can express what it is to see even one child die."
Brandt Commission, Common Crisis: North-South Cooperation for
World Recovery (London: Pan Books, 1983), 9-10.

Barriers to Peace
Unbridled Nationalism
"Unbridled nationalism, as distinguished from a sane and legitimate
patriotism, must give way to a wider loyalty, to the love of humanity
as a whole."
" Lo, soul! seest thou not god's purpose from
the first?
The earth to be spann'd , connected by net-
work,
The people to become brothers and sisters,
The races, neighbors, to marry and be given
in marriage,
The oceans to be cross'd, the distant brought
near,
The lands to be welded together."
Walt Whitman (1819-1892), "Passage to India."
□
"All states should put aside mutual suspicion and unite in one sole society
or rather family of peoples, both to guarantee their own independence
and safeguard order in the civil concert of peoples."
Pope Benedict XV, International Reconciliation, 1920.
□
"I now understand that my welfare is only possible if I acknowledge my
unity with all the people of the world without exception."
Leo Tolstoy, What I Believe, (1895).
□
"Men exist for the sake of one another. Teach them then or bear with
them."
Marcus Aurelius (121-180) Meditations, 8:59.

"We were born to unite with our fellow men, and to join in community
with the human race."
Marcus Tullius Cicero (106-43-B.C.) Definibus, 4.

Barriers to Peace
Religious Strife
"Religious strife, throughout history, has been the cause of innumerable
wars and conflicts, a major blight to progress, and is increasingly
abhorrent to people of all faiths and no faith."
"The religion of God is for love and unity; make it not the cause of en-
mity and dissension."
Baha'u 'llah, Tablets of Baha'u 'llah, 220.
□
"Religious conflict is not just a nuisance but is a sin. It is sinful because
it arouses the wild beast in Human Nature ... it is sinful because no one
has a right to stand between another human soul and God."
A. J. Toynbee, An Historian's Approach to Religion (New York:
Oxford University Press, 1956).
□
''A time may come when the local heritages of the different historical na-
tions, civilizations and religions will have coalesced into a common
heritage of the whole human family .... The missions of the highest
religions are not competitive; they are complementary."
Toynbee, An Historian's Approach to Religion.

Important Prerequisites for Peace
Equality of the Sexes
"The emancipation of women, the achievement of full equality between
the sexes, is one of the most important, though less acknowledged prere-
quisites of peace."
''And among the teachings of Baha'u 'llah is the equality of women and
men. The world of humanity has two wings-one is women and the
other men. Not until both wings are equally developed can the bird fly.
Should one wing remain weak, flight is impossible. Not until the world
of women becomes equal to the world of men in the acquisition of vir-
tues and perfections, can success and prosperity be attained as they ought
to be."
'Abdu'l-Baha. Selections from the Writings of :Abdu'l-Baha, 302.
□
"Women have equal rights with men upon earth; in religion and society
they are a very important element. As long as women are prevented from
attaining their highest possibilities, so long will men be unable to achieve
the greatness which might be theirs."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Paris Talks, 133.
□
"In the world of humanity we find a great difference; the female sex is
treated as though inferior, and is not allowed equal rights and privileges.
This condition is due not to nature, but to education. In the Divine Crea-
tion there is no such distinction. Neither sex is superior to the other in
the sight of God. Why then should one sex assert the inferiority of the
other, withholding just rights and privileges as though God had given His
authority for such a course of action? If women received the same educa-
tional advantages as those of men, the result would demonstrate the
equality of capacity of both for scholarship."
'Abdu'l-Baha, Paris Talks, 161.

Important Prerequisites for Peace
Universal Education
"The cause of universal education ... deserves the utmost support that
the governments of the world can lend it."
"Bend your minds and wills to the education of the peoples and kindreds
of the earth, that haply the dissensions that divide it may, through the
power of the Most Great Name, be blotted out from its face, and all
mankind be the upholders of one Order, and the inhabitants of one City."
Baha'u 'llah, Gleanings, 333-334.
□
" ... man has a purpose, not just to be pure and finer than others, but to
use his spiritual riches, his aesthetic greatness, in the service of others.
Powers must be expressed, and so complete the cycle of relationship. This
point of view must be taken into account not only in the practise of life,
but in education .... Education should no longer be mostly imparting of
knowledge, but must take a new path, seeking the release of human
potentialities."
Maria Montessori, Education for a New World (Madras: Kalakshetra
Publications, 1963), 48.
□
"One-third of the adults in the South were literate in 1950: now it is a little
over half .... There are still 34 countries where illiteracy is over 80 per
cent: and in the following 14 countries it is 90 per cent or· more-
Afghanistan, Chad, Guinea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mali,
Mauritania, Niger, Oman, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo and Upper Volta
(Burkina Fasso )."
P. Stephenson (1982), 40.
□
# Illiterate
700 million
758 million
824 million
UNESCO Courier (May 1983), 9.
% of adults (over 15)
44%
32.4 %
28.9 %

"Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the
defenses of peace must be constructed."
Constitution of UNESCO.
□
''However, psychological causes of war are preventable. With a program
of universal education based on the principles of the oneness of mankind,
new generations can be raised to see the 'world [as] but one country,
and mankind its citizens."'
H.B. Danesh, Unity: The Creative Foundation of Peace, 10.

Important Prerequisites for Peace
Improved Global Communication
';,t fundamental lack of communication between peoples seriously
undermines efforts towards world peace. Adopting an international
auxiliary language would go far to resolving this problem and
necessitates the most urgent attention."
"A universal language would make intercourse possible with every na-
tion. Thus it would be needful to know two languages only, the mother
tongue and the universal speech. The latter would enable a man to com-
municate with any and every man in the world!
''A third language would not be needed. To be able to talk with a
member of any race and country without requiring an interpreter, how
helpful and restful to all!"
'Abdu'l-Baha, Paris Talks, 156.
□
" ... the improvement of communications among the peoples of the
world is essential. The structures of world peace are often built in the
minds of ordinary people, based on feelings of security and confidence
in a just and rational world. If people are insecure about their neighbours
and do not know their nature or intentions, it is only too easy to generate
fears, whether justified or unjustified."
Javier Perez de Cuellar, Secretary-General of the United Nations
UN Chronicle (Sept. 1982), 31.

Unity: The Cardinal
Prerequisite for Peace
"World order can be founded only on an unshakeable consciousness
of the oneness of mankind, a spiritual truth which all the human
sciences confirm."
"The Baha'f Faith recognizes the unity of God and of His Prophets,
upholds the principle of an unfettered search after truth, condemns all
forms of superstition and prejudice, teaches that the fundamental pur-
pose of religion is to promote concord and harmony, that it must go hand-
in-hand with science, and that it constitutes the sole and ultimate basis
of a peaceful, an ordered and progressive society. It inculcates the prin-
ciple of equal opportunity, rights and privileges for both sexes, advocates
compulsory education, abolishes extremes of poverty and wealth, ex-
alts work performed in the spirit of service to the rank of worship, recom-
mends the adoption of an auxiliary international language, and provides
the necessary agencies for the establishment and safeguarding of a per-
manent and universal peace."
Shoghi Effendi, Selected Writings of Shoghi Effendi, 1-2.
□
"Before peace comes without, in the great arena of men's joint life on this
planet, a measure of it must first come within. How can we enforce new
laws, support far-reaching international policies, drive forward united-
ly towards our goal of world cooperation and co-ordination, freedom
from fear, unless we ourselves each set our own compass on something
firm to steer by and seek to know what is a human being's real place in
the scheme of things? What are his potentialities, what is required of him?
And let each one ask himself, what can I do myself?"
Ruhfyyih Rabbani,Prescriptionfor Living (London: George Ronald,
1950), 203-204.
□
"Over a century ago, Baha'u '11ah stated that 'the well-being of mankind,
its peace and security are unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly

established.' The call of Baha'u 'llah for the unity of mankind also has its
counterpart at the individual level. On a personal level, we are likewise
challenged with the task of attaining a state of unity, not only the inner
unity necessary for creating a full and integrated life for ourselves, but
also an interpersonal unity, a unity between ourselves and the members
of our family, society, country, and the world. This is a call for a condi-
tion of unity which will ultimately encompass the whole earth.
"To achieve this high level of individual and collective unity, we re-
quire a new mind-set, new approaches to the use of power and love in
our relationships, a new perspective on freedom, justice, and equality,
a new understanding of the roles of religion and science in human affairs,
and a new approach to the issues of the equality of men and women,
among others . The accomplishment of world peace, as Baha'u 'llah at-
tests, is possible only if we are willing to humble ourselves and approach
this task with a spirit of humanity and receptivity:
0 contending peoples and kindreds of the earth! Set your faces
towards unity, and let the radiance of its lights shine upon you.
Gather ye together, and for the sake of God resolve to root out
whatever is the source of contention amongst you. Then will the ef-
fulgence of the world's great Luminary envelop the whole earth, and
its habitants become the citizens of one city, the occupants of one
and the same throne."
H.B. Danesh, Unity: The Creative Foundation of Peace, 26. Cita-
tion of Baha'u'llah from Gleanings,' 217.
□
"The things which make men alike are finer and better than the
things that keep them apart, and these basic likenesses, if they are pro-
perly accentuated, easily transcend the less essential difference of race,
language, creed and tradition . . ..
"You ask what I consider to be the greatest need of the world to-
day ... I would put it in one word, understanding-understanding bet-
ween individuals, classes, races, nations. Literature, history and
mechanics are bringing it about much more rapidly today. Are not nations
simply families living together, learning to adjust themselves to each other
for the best good for the greatest number? .. .
"The problems of the world which are caused by wrong mental at-
titudes are returning to the heart and mind of man and the solution must
come through changed mental attitudes."
Jane Addams, quoted in" 'Abdu'l-Baha's Historic Meeting with Jane
Addams" by Ruth J. Moffat, The Baha'i World 6 {1934-1936),
681-682 .

Towards a
New World Order
"The League of Nations, the United Nations, and the many organiza-
tions and agreements produced by them have unquestionably been
helpful in attenuating some of the negative effects of international con-
flicts, but they have shown themselves incapable of preventing war."
"Far from aiming at the subversion of the existing foundations of socie-
ty, it [the world-wide law of Baha'u 'llah] seeks to broaden its basis, to
remold its institutions in a manner consonant with the needs of an ever-
changing world. It can conflict with no legitimate allegiances, nor can it
undermine essential loyalties. Its purpose is neither to stifle the flame of
a sane and intelligent patriotism in men's hearts, nor to abolish the system
of national autonomy so essential if the evils of excessive centralization
are to be avoided. It does not ignore, nor does it attempt to suppress, the
diversity of ethnic al origins, of climate, of history, of language and tradi-
tion, of thought and habit, that differentiate the peoples and nations of
the world. It calls for a wider loyalty, for a larger aspiration than any that
has animated the human race. It insists upon the subordination of national
impulses and interests to the imperative claims of a unified world. It
repudiates excessive centralization on one hand and disclaims all attempts
at uniformity on the other. Its watchword is unity in diversity."
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha'u 'llah, 41-42.
□
"The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Baha'u'llah, implies the
establishment of a world commonwealth in which all nations, races,
creeds and classes are closely and permanently united, and in which the
autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and initiative
of the individuals that compose them are definitely and completely
safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as we can visualize it, con-
sist of a world legislature, whose members will, as the trustees of the
whole of mankind, ultimately control the entire resources of all the com-
ponent nations, and will enact such laws as shall be required to regulate
the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the relationships of all races and

peoples. A world executive, backed by an international Force, will carry
out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws enacted by, this world
legislature, and will safeguard the organic unity of the whole com-
monwealth. A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory
and final verdict in all and any disputes that may arise between the various
elements constituting this universal system."
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha'u 'llah, 203.
D
"A world federal system, ruling the whole earth and exercising un-
challengeable authority over its unimaginably vast resources, blending
and embodying the ideals of both the East and the West, liberated from
the curse of war and its miseries, and bent on the exploitation of all the
available sources of energy on the surface of the planet, a system in which
Force is made the servant of Justice, whose life is sustained by its univer-
sal recognition of God ... . "
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, 204.
D
''A mechanism of world inter-communication will be devised, embrac-
ing the whole planet, freed from national hindrances and restrictions,
and functioning with marvellous swiftness and perfect regularity. A
world metropolis will act as the nerve center of a world civilization, the
focus towards which the unifying forces of life will converge and from
which its energizing influences will radiate. A world language will either
be invented or chosen from among the existing languages and will be
taught in the schools of all the federated nations as an auxiliary to their
mother tongue. A world script, a world literature, a uniform and univer-
sal system of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify and
facilitate intercourse and understanding among the nations and races of
mankind. In such a world society, science and religion, the two most po-
tent forces in human life, will be reconciled, will cooperate, and will har-
moniously develop. The press will, under such a system, while giving full
scope to the expression of the diversified views and convictions of
mankind, cease to be mischievously manipulated by vested interests,
whether private or public, and will be liberated from the influence of con-
tending governments and peoples. The economic resources of the world
will be organized, its sources of raw materials will be tapped and fully
utilized, its markets will be coordinated and developed, and the distribu-
tion of its products will be equitably regulated.
"National rivalries, hatreds, and intrigues will cease, and racial
animosity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, understanding
and cooperation. The causes of religious strife will be permanently
removed, economic barriers and restrictions will be completely abolish-
ed, and the inordinate distinction between classes will be obliterated.
Destitution on the one hand, and gross accumulation of ownership on

the other, will disappear. The enormous energy dissipated and wasted on
war, whether economic or political, will be consecrated to such ends as
will extend the range of human inventions and technical development,
to the increase of the productivity of mankind, to the extermination of
disease, to the extension of scientific research, to the raising of the stan-
dard of physical health, to the sharpening and refinement of the human
brain, to the exploitation of the unused and unsuspected resources of the
planet, to the prolongation of human life, and to the furtherance of any
other agency that can stimulate the intellectual, the moral, and spiritual
life of the entire human race."
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah , 20 3-204.

Consultation and
Conflict Resolution
" 'Consultation bestows greater awareness and transmits conjecture
into certitude. It is a shining light which, in a dark world, leads the way
and guides.' "
"Underlying all the laws and community structures in the Baha'i Faith
is a group decision-making process called 'consultation.' Essentially,
Baha'i consultation involves a frank but loving exchange of opinions by
members of a group with a view towards the determination of the truth
of some matter and the establishment of a genuine group consensus. It
is no exaggeration to say that virtually every member of the Baha'i Faith
is a student of the process of consultation ....
"One of the best-known summaries of the Baha'i pattern of con-
sultation is to be found in a passage from 'Abdu'l-Baha's writings which
has become a working document for Baha'i national and local spiritual
assemblies:
The first condition is absolute love and harmony amongst the
members of the assembly. They must be wholly free from estrange-
ment and must manifest in themselves the Unity of God, for they are
the waves of one sea, the drops of one river, the stars of one heaven.
They must when corning together turn their faces to the Kingdom
on High and ask aid from the Realm of glory. They must then pro-
ceed with the utmost devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and modera-
tion to express their views. They must in every matter search out the
truth and not insist upon their own opinion. For stubbornness and
persistence in one's views will lead ultimately to discord and wrangl-
ing and the truth will remain hidden. The honored members must
with all freedom express their own thoughts, and it is in no wise per-
mitted for one to belittle the thought of another, nay, he must with
moderation set forth the truth, and should differences of opinion
arise a majority of voices must prevail, and all must obey and sub-
mit to the majority. It is again not permitted that any one of the
honored members object to or censure, whether in or out of the
meeting, any decision arrived at previously, though that decision be

not right, for such criticism would prevent any decision from being
enforced . ... Should they ... endeavor to fulfill these conditions the
Grace of the Holy Spirit shall be vouchsafed unto them, and that
assembly shall become the center of the Divine blessings, the hosts
of Divine confirmation shall come to their aid, and they shall day
by day receive a new effusion of Spirit."
Hatcher/Martin, 161-163. Citation of 'Abdu'l-Baha quoted by
Shoghi Effendi in Baba 'i Administration (Wilmette, Illinois:
Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1974), 22-23 .
D
"The basis which Baha'u'llah creates for the training and develop-
ment of the individual is consultation. It applies to all areas of human
association, including the family. Baha'is are encouraged to speak with
'absolute freedom' while seeing that 'no occasion for ill-feeling or discord
may arise.' They are urged to see their ideas as contributions to the group
and to struggle to detach themselves from personal interest in them once
they have been presented. Criticism of others as a means of social con-
trol is strongly discouraged, whether it occurs in consultative situations
or individual encounters. The spirit of trust that communication of this
kind produces, in turn engenders real love and a profound sense of unity."
H. Danesh, "Universal Man and Prejudiced Man," World Order
(Spring, 1974), 23-24.
D
"The Baha'i community is made up of people drawn from a bewilder-
ing variety of racial, cultural and religious backgrounds, living in over
100,000 communities of various size spread across the face of the earth.
Some of the issues facing it are vexing and painful in the extreme. Despite
the widely different circumstances to which Baha'i activity must adapt,
our community has found it entirely possible to function as a united body
on those aspects of life which we regard as essential to the well-being of
our members. The key to the achievement of this unity has been a body
of consultative principles derived from the Scriptures of our Faith which
forms the basis of our administrative and individual lives. We hope it is
not inappropriate to share them with these hearings:
1 . Freedom and opportunity for all those affected by a decision to
participate in the consultative process.
2 . A clear distinction between this broad consultation and the
deliberations of the democratically elected body which must
take responsibility for the decision.
3 . Encouragement for every individual engaged in consultation to
freely set forth his or her conscience.
4 . The prohibition of any form of factionalism.
5 . The responsibility of all those participating to exercise courtesy
and moderation.

6. The moral obligation of all individuals in the consultative pro-
cess to detach themselves from their own contribution, which,
once it has been made, becomes a common possession.
7. Once a decision is taken, the community understands its role to
be that of the constituency which wholeheartedly implements
that decision.
8 . Having had a vital role in the consultation, decision-making and
implementation, individuals as well as decision-making bodies
are obliged to constantly evaluate their work and, where
necessary, revise their decision.
"Consensus can be achieved only when there is frank, open and
sincere consultation by all parties involved, with a view towards discover-
ing the real truth of the matter at hand, which can only emerge from the
'clash of differing opinions'. It is not only the process of consultation itself
which is so important, but the spirit of seeking truth rather than merely
juxtaposing irreconcilable and irreducible adversary opinions.
"When consultation is animated by the spirit of such sincere truth-
seeking and safeguarded by a mutually-respected framework, the par-
ties involved gradually lose their feelings of mutual mistrust. They no
longer find it necessary or useful to assume exaggerated or one-sided
'bargaining positions' as hedges against future concessions. Nor do they
fear becoming naive dupes manipulated by one side or the other. Hav-
ing had an opportunity to express fully their concerns, and with the
assurance that they are being listened to, they are much more inclined
to accept the final consensus as fair and just. Lacking such an opportunity,
they may reject the final decision even if equitable."
The Baha'i Community of Canada, Submission to the Interfaith Pro-
gram for Public Awareness of Nuclear Issues, November 1, 1984.
D
They must make the cause of peace the object of gener,tl
consultation . . . .
'Abdu'l-Baha
The ordinary use of the words "consultation" and "consulting" refers to
the processes of deliberation, advice-seeking, and information-gathering
from various sources, especially from professional experts such as physi-
cians, engineers, lawyers, and others. The Baha'i concept of consultation,
however, is unique and, at least in part, describes that human endeavour
in which a small or large number of individuals, representing themselves,
institutions, nations, or any other group of people, communicate with
one another in an atmosphere of complete unity and frankness. Their
purpose is to seek out the truth about the object of their deliberation and
to find ways and means in which individual and societal needs for justice,
equality, freedom, and progress are met. They also deliberate on ways

human conflicts can be resolved without the abuse of power or the
manipulation or denial and violation of human rights of any people,
whether or not they are directly involved in these consultative processes.
This type of consultation requires high levels of emotional and in-
tellectual maturity and high spiritual, moral, and ethical standards from
its participants. Therefore, Baha'i consultation is most effective within
a framework characterized by growth-orientation, unity in diversity,
creativity, and cooperation. These are features of an integrated and com-
prehensive approach to human endeavours which are totally incompati-
ble with the authoritarian and indulgent modes of human relationships.
The main objective of Baha'i: consultation, therefore, is to bring about cir-
cumstances in which the seemingly contradictory principles of "mercy
and justice, of freedom and submission, of the sanctity of the right of the
individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion, and prudence
on the one hand, and fellowship, candour, and courage on the other,"
are reconciled and human conflicts are resolved in a creative manner with
the constant goal of searching out truth and not becoming prey to the
forces of prejudice, ignorance, self-interest, or mistrust. (Shoghi Effen-
di, Principles of Baba'i Administration, 3d ed.
!London: Baha'i
Publishing Trust, 1973 I, 44) . ...
The secret of unity and maturity called for in Baha'i consultation lies
in the ability of the participants to express themselves "with absolute
freedom" in putting forth their arguments. Should anyone oppose, they
"must on no account feel hurt for not until matters are fully discussed
can the right way be revealed. The shining spark of truth cometh forth
only after the clash of differing opinions. If, after discussion a decision
be carried unanimously, well and good; but if ... difference of opinion
should arise, a majority of voices must prevail .. . .'' (Shoghi Effendi, Prin-
ciples, 42).
Within this framework, the focus ofBaha'i consultation will be on
those issues which result in higher standards and universal availability
of education, health, and economic well-being; which bring about the
eradication of the extremes of wealth and poverty; which encourage ever
higher levels of love, care, and kindness among people; and which foster
the creation of conditions of equality, justice, freedom and a peaceful,
orderly, and harmonious individual and social life.
H.B. Danesh, Unity: The Creatil'e Foundation of Peace. 11()-117

The Politics of
Transformation
"Beyond the initial armistice forced upon the world by the fear of
nuclear holocaust, beyond the political peace reluctantly entered into
by suspicious rival nations, beyond pragmatic arrangements for securi-
ty and coexistence, beyond even the many experiments in cooperation
which these steps will make possible lies the crowning goal: the unifica-
tion of all the peoples of the world in one universal family."
... is not the object of every Revelation to effect a transformation
in the whole character of mankind, a transformation that shall
manifest itself both outwardly and inwardly, that shall affect both
its inner life and external conditions? For if the character of
mankind be not changed, the futility of God's universal Manifesta-
tions would be apparent.
Bah:l'u'll:lh
Human societies are transformed through a multitude of causes which,
on the surface, seem to be unrelated or only partially related. These causes
may be economic, social, or political in nature, may come about as a result
of revolutions, technological and scientific innovations, ideological and
conceptual developments, or organizational and structural changes in-
troduced into an already established but increasingly inadequate order.
While these and similar approaches to the transformation of human
societies have been and continue to be used to bring about change in con-
formity with certain individual and group perspectives and ideologies,
in the final analysis all successful transformation of human societies must,
of necessity, conform to universal laws of growth.
These laws ... propel humanity forward and help it gradually but
definitely move through stages of infancy, childhood, and adolescence
to those of adulthood and maturity. Ultimately, a mature society will be
characterized by unity in diversity, the harmony of science and religion,
the equality of men and women, and by the eradication of prejudices of
all kinds, the preservation of human rights, and the promotion of justice

and freedom-in short, by the assertion of the fundamental nobility of
every human being and the ultimate victory of the human spirit.
The Bahi'i perspective on this emerging new world order sees the
necessity for the conscious development of a politics of transformation
which will harness the inherent and inviolable laws of life and growth
governing human societies. Such an approach to the introduction of
societal change must be based on the principle of unity in diversity and
must have as its ultimate goal the establishment of global peace. Growth
dynamics of human societies, like those of individual human beings, are
both natural and intentional. They are natural in the sense that the
organism, in this case the society, either continues to grow and evolve,
or becomes rigid and begins its gradual or rapid process of disintegration,
decay, and destruction. These growth dynamics are also intentional, in
the sense that although all societies are subject to these universal laws of
growth, the nature of their individual growth is unique to each. Human
beings and human societies are creative entities, and in the process of
their growth they introduce those unique dimensions that make our
world diverse, united, and beautiful.
The new world order must be able to accommodate all these
dynamics and processes so that the politics of transformation will
become the same as the politics of enlightened maturation, assuring the
advent of a new world order, the order of peace.
H.B. Danesh, Uni(y: Tbe Creatiue Foundation o.f Peace, 116-11 7.

The Experience of the
Baba 'i Community
"Together with the opposing tendency to warfare and self-
aggrandizement against which it ceaselessly struggles, the drive
towards unity is one of the dominant, pervasive features of life on the
planet during the closing years of the twentieth century.
''The experience of the Baba 'i community may be seen as an exam-
ple of this enlarging unity."
''The process of community-building is well advanced in the Baha'i Faith.
During the first century of its existence, the Baha'i community was
primarily concentrated in Persia where, as a proscribed and much
persecuted minority, it had little opportunity to experiment with the
teachings of its founder. Once the teaching plans were implemented
under the direction of Shoghi Effendi, however, and particularly as these
plans became global in scope, the collective life of the believers began
to manifest some of these 'society-building' potentialities. Whether the
Baha'i Faith will ultimately become the inspiration and guiding force of
a new advance in a world civilization, as have other revealed religions,
is something only time will demonstrate. The important fact to note is
that, as a result of the activities of the faith over the past 140 years, a global
Baha'i community has come into existence and is now rapidly expanding.
An understanding of the Baha'i Faith must include an appreciation of this
important development."
Hatcher/Martin, 166-167.
□
" 'All men,' said Baha'u'llah, 'are created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization'. This is the standard and this is the goal. Convic-
tion of one's worth in these terms brings a sense of responsibility to
develop, to train, and to perfect one's talents; it leaves no place for the
sluggard or the parasite. Yet the impulse to develop must never be express-
ed at the expense or by the exploitation of others. The working of this
principle of individual worth and responsibility makes possible an im-

portant step in social maturity. It removes at least two of the great im-
pediments to cooperation between human beings who must work
together; the insecurity of the individuals to accept without hostility the
differences in human capacity and ability."
Elsie Austin, "Unity as a Way of Life," The Baha'i World 11
(1946-1950), 696.
□
"In 1936, outside the land of its birth , the Baha'i Cause had only a few
thousand followers, living in fewer than perhaps a thousand localities
in approximately forty countries and territories of the globe. Its ad-
ministrative structure consisted of ten National Spiritual Assemblies,
several of them serving two or more countries at the same time, and fewer
than 120 Local Spiritual Assemblies. Only a handful of these bodies were
incorporated. At its World Centre in the Holy Land, near the burial places
of the Bab and Baha'u 'llah, external circumstances had made it impos-
sible for the Cause to pursue more than a token development. To the great
mass of the people of the world even the name of the movement was as
yet unknown .
"Today, forty years later, the Baha'i Cause is established in over 330
countries, territories, and major islands of the globe, from isolated villages
in Canada's farthest Arctic to the remotest islands of the South Pacific.
It includes in its embrace representatives of virtually every religious,
racial, ethnic, national, and social group on earth. There are today as
many National Baha'i Assemblies as there were Local Assemblies in 193 5,
and the number of Local Assemblies now approaches twenty thousand,
quite apart from the more than sixty thousand centers where Assemblies
are being built by Baha'i groups or by individual believers. Wherever this
institutional development has occurred, the creation of Houses of Wor-
ship, schools, hospices and administrative headquarters, and the acquisi-
tion of other properties for such purposes, have followed . In 1963, on
the one hundredth anniversary of Baha'u'llah's declaration of His mis-
sion , the members of the fifty-six National and Regional Spiritual
Assemblies, of whom more than 280 gathered on the slopes of Mount
Carmel, brought into existence, in what may well have been the first
democratic global election in history, the crowning unity of the Ad-
ministrative Order conceived by Baha'u'llah. That body took the name
which Baha'u 'llah had given it a century earlier, 'The Universal House
of Justice.' Through the acquisition of consultative status in the non-
governmental organizations of the United Nations, as well as through the
continuously expanding recognition of its institutions and practices by
scores of national and provincial Governments around the world , the
Cause has secured those relationships with civil authority which are
necessary to its various humanitarian purposes. Its literature, which in
1936 was translated into fewer than forty languages, can today be read
in nearly 600, and includes not only the collected Writings of the

Founders and the commentaries of Shoghi Effendi as Guardian but also
a vast range of works which elaborate the principles and teachings of the
Cause for both the scholarly and the popular reader. Most recently an in-
tensive program for the use of various communication media has begun
in order to assure that the message of Baha'u 'llah is as accessible to the
illiterate seeker as it is to his more fortunate brother, as comprehensible
to modern youth as it is to adults. The total phenomenon may well repre-
sent the most rapid expansion of a serious religious movement in modern
history ....
"What are some of the features of this model which recommend it
to ... serious study ... ? The first, and the one most relevant to our con-
cerns here, is the model's universality. That is to say, that in attracting
adherents from every race, class, and creed the process of assimilation
has not occurred at the expense of cultural and spiritual diversity of its
members ....
"It is a fact, established now through a century of experience, that a
worldwide community can revere the Founders of all the great revealed
religions equally; can draw for their devotions on the Bhagavad Gita, the
Old Testament, The New Testament, and the Qur'an; can experience the
precious benefits of 'interfaith dialogue' in the homeliest occasions of
local community life and in the truest sense of that much abused phrase.
"A second feature of the model which has emerged from
Baha'u'llah's Revelation is its success in remolding human conscience-in
establishing a set of universal moral standards relevant to the age of
mankind's maturity. Solely out of devotion to the founder of the Baha'i
Cause ordinary people in every part of the world have surrendered
themselves to a process of education in ideals as comprehensive and
challenging as the goals of the most advanced social reformers: the
eradication of prejudices, the independent investigation of truth, the
assurance of equality of opportunity to men and women, a program of
universal education, the attainment of social justice, and the establish-
ment of an effective world order, to name only a few of these ideals. The
point is that these principles are not merely matters of sociological theory
within the Baha'i community but integral parts of the psychological pat-
tern and emotional life in which generations of human beings, one
generation after another, are being patiently and deliberately raised.
"Third, ... Baha'u'llah's community enjoys its own history. It has
its 'noble army of martyrs,' some twenty thousand of them, whose self-
sacrifice won the unstinted admiration of Sir Francis Younghusband,
when he first encountered their stories several decades ago. Apart from
its lively interest in the spiritual giants of earlier Revelations it has its own
archetypal heroes and saints (for whom its children are named), whose
lives provide moral example, and whose spiritual achievements have
already begun to evoke the first halting response of Bah a 'i artists, writers,
and musicians. Today, all around the world, an entire generation of
Japanese, Italian, Bolivian, Ugandan, Canadian, and Persian children are

being educated in this common tradition.
"Finally, there is the feature of the Baha'i community which is related
to the pivotal teaching of Baha'u 'llah's Revelation: "The earth is but one
country, and mankind its citizens." Baha'u'llah asserts that: "The well-
being of mankind, its peace and security are unattainable unless and until
its unity is firmly established." A feature of Baha'u 'llah's model, therefore,
which has enormous significance for the future, is the fact that it has pass-
ed safely through the first critical century of its history with its unity firm-
ly intact. No single effort to create sects and factions has survived the
generation which saw it appear. There is not, so far as I am aware, any
other great movement in recorded history-religious, political, or
social-of which this can be said. Time and again in all other forms of
human association, the process of schism has taken hold in the early,
vulnerable stages; and the originating impulse has had to continue its
work through the activities of often contending parties and sects."
Douglas Martin, "Baha'u 'llah's Model for World Unity," The Baba 'i
World 16 (1973-1976), 682-684.
D
"Within the framework of unity in diversity, the Baha'i community
creates a milieu conducive to the growth and maturation of both its in-
dividual members and its institutions. The Universal House of Justice,
supreme governing body of the Baha'i Faith, has compared the Baha'i
community to the human body:
In the human body, every cell, every organ, every nerve has its part
to play. When all do so the body is healthy, vigorous, radiant and
ready for every call made upon it. No cell, however humble, lives
apart from the body, whether in serving it or receiving from it. This
is true of the body of mankind in which God has endowed each
humble being with ability and talent, and is supremely true of the
body of the Baha'i world community, for this body is already an
organism, united in its aspirations, unified in its methods, seeking
assistance and confirmation from the same source, and illumined
with the conscious knowledge of its unity.
"In such a community there is a direct relationship between the in-
dividual's growth and the level of maturity of the ideas and the institu-
tions with which he comes in contact. Among these are the institutions
of the family and the Spiritual Assembly.
"The family, according to the teachings of Baha'u'llah, is the basic
foundation of human society. It is within the secure setting of the fami-
ly that the human infant receives care, love and nourishment, and is
taught about himself, his fellow man and the world in general. Therefore
the effect of the family on the development of the individual and his
character is of immeasurable importance ....
"Within the framework of the Baha'i community, ... both the in-
dividual and the family are given the opportunity to free themselves from

isolation and alienation, and at the same time to safeguard their in-
dividuality and privacy. This is accomplished by active and universal par-
ticipation in the life of the community. The Baha'i community, like all
living organisms, has its own rhythm, self-regulating agencies and
growth-inducing faculties. The rhythm of Baha'i community life is
established by its unique calendar. The year begins on the first day of
spring and is divided into 19 months of 19 days each. On the first day of
each month, Baha'is the world over take part in a Baha'i Feast.
"The Feast fulfills an important part of the spiritual, intellectual,
social and interpersonal needs of the individual. It provides a setting for
meaningful and intimate collaboration between the individual, the com-
munity and Baha'i institutions and it broadens the individual's world
beyond the boundaries of his family, neighbourhood and work ....
"The rhythm and growth ofBaha'i community life is maintained and
regulated by the institution of the Spiritual Assembly, which directs it in
such a way that unity, cooperation, and a sense of fulfillment and joy are
the outcome for all who take part."
H. Danesh, "The Violence-Free Society," 18-20. Citation of the
Universal House of Justice from Wellspring of Guidance (Wilmette:
Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1976), 37-38.

APPRECIATIONS
"Deeply impressed by the message contained in The Promise of World
Peace, I would like-as a student of peace for many years-to explore
three points that seem to me to be of particular significance. In a sense
they all relate to our capacity for visioning, for creating images of a
peaceful world. This is also a key characteristic of the Baha'i Faith: you
have to have an image of the desirable state of affairs, so clear, so com-
manding that the image itself becomes a live force. A part of our predica-
ment is that only in short periods during and right after wars are the im-
ages of peace sufficiently commanding. In more peaceful periods it is as
if we are yearning for war, producing images filled with strife and com-
petition and selfishness, even elevating such characteristics to the status
of 'law of human nature.'
"More precisely, I am thinking of three characteristic themes from
what often refers to itself as the 'realism' school in social science in
general, and policy sciences in particular: peace through capacity to
retaliate; development through trade according to comparative advan-
tages; and evolution through self-interest and struggle for survival.
Needless to say, such themes will tend to be the credo of men more than
women, of the middle-aged more than the old, of the powerful and
privileged more than the powerless and discriminated, of the occident
more than the orient. But the themes are very pervasive in this age which
has taken on materialist individualism as its major faith ... .
"The crowning achievement of this kind of thinking is the doctrine
of national self-interest. That there is a selfish, competitive strain in in-
dividuals and nations alike, and that this may express itself in the direct
violence released through offensive weaponry and the structural violence
built into lopsided trade relations within and between countries-all this
we know. Under certain conditions that is what comes out. But under
other conditions the opposite comes out, altruism rather than egotism,
cooperation rather than conflict and competition. Our task is to under-
stand those conditions, not to proclaim that human behavior under
adverse conditions is normal, and elevate that finding to a law of nature.
In a jungle, it is probable that humans behave as one is supposed to

behave in a jungle-although even the most elementary knowledge of
biology in general and zoology in particular will inform us that in the
struggle for survival there is cooperation as well as conflict, and that the
Darwinist formula should make us look for the cooperative elements at
least as much as the competitive and conflict-loaded themes.
''Let me finish on that note, simply by saying that some of the strug-
gle for peace as envisaged in the Letter will have to take place in the cor-
ridors of social science. Inspired by a quest for a shared spirituality we
have to struggle for better social sciences in general, and policy and peace
sciences in particular."
Johan Galtung
□
"Both the thought that 'all nations and tribes shall become one nation'
and the heartfelt sensation arising from the belief that 'religious and sec-
tarian antagonism, hostility among races and peoples, and the differences
among nations shall be banished' gladden the spirit and strengthen the
belief in the achievement of peace.
"Ever since science and technology laid at our disposal the possi-
bility to see our planet 'from afar' on a television screen, the feeling that
the Earth is our common home began to emerge. Such a perception,
which was then only visual, has since, through age and meditation, been
transformed into a profound conviction and seen as a forthcoming reality.
The truth of this reflection can be seen through concepts such as those
expressed by Shoghi Effendi-most particularly when he asserts that the
human species is faring through a transitional age, characteristic of the
impetuosity and irrational instincts of youth: their folly, their ex-
travagance, their pride, their self-confidence, their rebelliousness, and
their aversion to discipline. He further states that the ages of childhood
and infancy have passed not to return, 'whereas the Great Age is com-
ing, as the consummation of all ages, the announcement of the entire
human race's arrival at the stage of maturity.'
"The Baha'i view provides a healthy perspective on all the senseless
and unreasonable acts carried out by humanity throughout history, and
upholds the promise of 'the Age of Ages' when humanity's painful ex-
perience will 'evolve into the wisdom and calmness of an imperturbable,
universal and lasting peace; during which disagreement and segregation
among the offspring of human beings will have given way to global recon-
ciliation and total unification of the different elements which constitute
human society.'
"To unite the world does not mean to undermine the loyalty due
one's home country, but rather, I believe, to understand that in-
terdependence among nations and the fact that the world has become
a smaller place open up new possibilities for loyalty-to humanity as a
whole. A world commonwealth is undoubtedly a response against

egotism, against the desire for domination, against segregation among
men, all of which subject people to bloodshed and sink the immense ma-
jority deep into hunger, dejection, and ignorance. The acceptance of
humanity as an integrated unit ' . .. shall introduce the spiritualization of
the masses .. .' together with ' .. . the final fusion of all races, creeds,
classes, and nations, which shall proclaim the advent of its New World
Order.'"
Rodrigo Carazo
□
I think the Baha'i Faith can address issues of peace and security for
the world with particular authority. Its vision is centered around the
aspiration for and attainability of a peaceful world order, and Baha'i
thought inevitably gravitates toward these overarching concerns, so vital
to our overall historical situation.
More than this normative and intellectual perspective, is the ex-
perience that Baha'is have had of the concrete consequences of suffer-
ing from the violence and warmaking of others. Especially in Iran, a
militarist and harshly fundamentalist government has allowed the bloody
persecution of Baha'is to continue since that regime's revolutionary vic-
tory in 1979. I am convinced that this traumatizing experience of
vulnerability in relation to the present political structures of the world
lends to Baha'i perspective both an added urgency and relevance.
The statement from the Baha'i Universal House of Justice address-
ed "to the peoples of the world" is an inspiring document. It is eloquent,
coherent, provides hope about the future, and rests upon an ethical stance
that seems congenial with all major belief systems associated with the
great world religions and cultural systems. In this regard, the document
lives up to the universalist challenge implicit in the United Nations call
to proclaim 1986 the Year of Peace. Beyond this, in a time of general
despair, the statement embodies hope, a profession of faith and reason
in ''the inevitability of peace'' amid an immediate setting where war, ter-
rorism, and political violence seem alarmingly on the rise.
In addition to this, what I think is worth mentioning in this docu-
ment is the confidence that, outside of the setting of politics and the in-
stitutions of governments at all levels, there is in the analysis of this docu-
ment a kind of underlying optimism which is expressed by the view that
there is the basis for "all people to set in motion constructive forces
which, because they are consistent with human nature, will encourage
harmony and cooperation instead of war and conflict." And further, that
such an enterprise is possible because the necessary constructive forces
exist and the unifying social structures can be erected. This is the prin-
cipal theme which is urged. And the basis on which it is urged is that if
a transforming politics is to take hold, it will require some kind of

religious and spiritual grounding. It is not enough merely to say that such
a global restructuring is a good idea. To succeed, the ideas must engage
the spiritual energies of human nature-and must engage them in a man-
ner that is responsive to the basic insight of the great religions of the
world: that underlying the diversities in our experience and in our history
is a more fundamental reality of unity, of human unity, and that this uni-
ty has to be grasped at the human depths and acted upon as a real foun-
dation for action. Without this spiritual orientation, it will be very dif-
ficult to do anything constructive. Both materialism and fundamentalism
are rejected as alternative orientations-materialism because it does not
dig deeply enough into human nature; fundamentalism because it claims
to be in such literal and specific touch with the truth that those with other
views of reality are regarded as beyond the pale, as infidels and enemies.
Such otherness must be eliminated to the extent that it interferes with the
dissemination of fundamentalist truth. In this regard, a fundamentalist
creed tends to incite holy wars and murderous crusades.
Without getting into the details of the analysis, the further emphasis
of this Baha'i document is that the shift toward unity is a matter of attitude
on the part of people and that this shift in attitude will be most significant-
ly enacted to the extent it occurs among leaders. World leaders are as-
sumed in the document to include the leaders of political communities,
but not only them. And, finally, the document argues that the nature of
peace must be organically connected with the broad agenda of social
justice, but also that it must be accompanied by some limitations on the
notions and attitudes of nationalism as a territorial force, that a new
patriotism is in effect summoned into being, depending in its essence on
an emerging idea of world citizenship. Beyond the affiliations to a par-
ticular state is the idea that one belongs to an invisible political communi-
ty that is global. Such wider identity does not negate participation in
specific communities, although it may alter its character. And, finally, that
leaders of governments and those elsewhere in authority would be well
served in their efforts to solve societal problems if they would first es-
tablish an agreed set of normative principles and then be guided by them.
I believe this is a very eloquent and important document that should
be studied as a foundation for trying to think about how to promote peace
in the world. And in the spirit of taking it seriously, I would raise several
questions about certain features that I find either unconvincing or troubl-
ing. I think that perhaps the most serious problem or limitation is the
absence of what I would call a politics of transformation, that it is
somehow, by my reading, a plea to the rational intellect and to the moral
spiritual foundations of that intellect, but it does not interpret the future
in relation to any social movement, which is engaged in a struggle against
the prevailing order. It can be a nonviolent struggle, but it is a struggle
that puts one in a posture of resistance rather than in a posture of appeal-
ing to existing leaders, and seeking to persuade them. The document lacks
an analysis of the strength and resilience of the present global power

system, a strength that reflects important interests of social forces which
benefit from the existing order and which will oppose change. In my
view, only a social movement that creates another alternative way of
organizing political and human life can hope to challenge the status quo.
In this sense, it seems to me one does have to supplement the Baha'i
perspective with some vision of how it is to be embodied in the kind of
world that we see around us. As well, it is necessary to confront evil or
distortion of governmental institutions, even as applicable to the United
Nations, so as to assess the problems of working for reform.
A second question I would raise is that I find a certain incompatibility
between the insistence on unity and the corresponding need for the en-
tire human race to work from its distinct spiritual foundations and the
claim of the Baha'i document, very natural in religious faiths, to have all
the answers, as expressed by reliance on a particular prophet as a suffi-
cient source of wisdom and insight to encompass the entire reali-
ty .... When we read secular interpretations of world problems that quote
from a single source, we regard them as sectarian. This Baha'i interpreta-
tion of the world does not appear to need the Buddha, Gandhi, or Mar-
tin Luther King. It doesn't appear to need the explicit contributions of
other traditions of thought, wisdom, and insight that have also affirm-
ed human unity and nonviolence. The real profession of global unity is
not embodied in the actual articulation of the Baha'i vision in a manner
that enables a sympathetic outsider to find altogether convincing.
I believe, also, that the problem of violence in human experience
must be considered in a document of this sort. Can one confront injustice
in South Africa nonviolently and yet be politically serious at this stage?
Decades ago, Gandhi gave up on South Africa and went home because
he believed in part that it was not then susceptible as the British Empire
was susceptible to his methods and approach. Even in India, Gandhi fail-
ed to some extent. The nonviolent struggle against the British Empire
culminated in a very bloody destructive religious war between Hindus
and Moslems that persists in different forms to this day. It is necessary
to ask whether transformation of the sort proposed is possible without
violence, as well as whether such transformation can be genuinely
achieved if it relies upon violence. It is not a matter of endorsing or re-
nouncing political violence, but of interpreting its relationship to the vi-
sion of the future being advocated.
I agree with the importance of trying to work with the symbolism
and even the forums of the United Nations, but in a critical, open-eyed
way. Of course, anything that the Heritage Foundation despises finds a
kind of automatic vindication. But part of the reason why neoconser-
vative attacks on the UN and internationalism have been effective is
because they have addressed real deficiencies, and if one is blind to those
deficiencies, one actually increases the credibility of hostile forces and
weakens the credibility of those who are adherents to the globalist ideals
underlying the United Nations. It seems common ground to affirm that

securing world peace will require a much more ambitious international
instrumentality than the UN was ever meant to be, even in its early, more
optimistic period after 1945 when there was still some hope that the war-
time alliance of victors would endure in the postwar world. The United
Nations as a central organ of the world has a part to play in bringing uni-
ty, peace, and justice together, but it must be connected, as well, with the
satisfaction of grassroots aspirations and needs at all levels of social
organization.
My conclusion, then, is to urge careful, critical study of the Baha'i
perspective on these great challenges of our time. I would hope that an
array of responses would persuade the Baha'i community to refine even
further its conception of world peace, thereby embodying diverse par-
ticipation to achieve something approaching unity. I believe that the pro-
cess of multicultural dialogue lays a secure and indispensable foundation
beneath the struggle to construct a just and peaceful world order respon-
sive to our needs and mindful of our dreams and desires.
Richard Falk
□
The Baha'i community's Peace Message rests necessarily on the idea
of human unity. The faith that peace is inevitable is rooted in the belief
that humankind is now at a certain point "in an organic process leading
irresistibly to the unification of the human race in a single social order
whose boundaries are the planet."
The idea of human unity set forth in the Peace Message is as intrigu-
ing as it is fundamental. The question that presses itself upon me is,
whether this particular idea of unity is profound or self-contradictory.
It is certainly not simple. For the authors make it clear that they do not
mean that unity is a perfect harmony, or that it requires the erosion of
all significant differences among people, or that unity could result from
the domination of diverse realities by a single force. Such simple notions
of unity might not be achievable and would not be desirable, but they are
much easier to conceive than the unity proclaimed in the Peace Message.
The Baha'i community seems to be celebrating human diversity, en-
couraging human freedom and initiative, and proclaiming human unity
at the same time. They are, at least, calling for a world in which diverse
physical characteristics, cultural values, and moral commitments are af-
firmed. Even a "sane and legitimate patriotism" is to be preserved in the
midst of progress toward a world in which "the love of humanity as a
whole" transcends the nationalist rivalries and imperial domination now
fueling the fires of war. Similarly, religions are not asked to become one re-
ligion, but "to work together for the advancement of human understand-
ing and peace" rather than persist in contributing, as many religions now
do, to the fervor of war. The contemporary authors seem to be faithful

to Shoghi Effendi, whom they quote: their watchword is "unity in
diversity.''
Yet, the crucial question remains: Can we have both at the same time?
Can we have the kind of unity that will sustain peace and the kind of
diversity that reflects the freedom and integrity of persons and groups?
There is ample reason to think that the diversity resulting from genuine
freedom inevitably generates serious and fundamental conflicts. Dif-
ferences of race, gender, nationality, and religion might be transcended,
but this may not be so with respect to conflicting moral commitments.
I think it is impossible to answer these questions conclusively on the
basis of experience to date, so it will be more constructive to ask what
people can do to advance human unity of the sort proposed. In this con-
text, the Peace Message is rather disappointing. The model of the Baha'i
community itself is impressive, but it is not something most of the world
can "do." The only other practical proposal, that of a "vast assemblage
of men" who would agree upon a global system for peace, is one which
has little possibility of yielding the peaceable world the authors say is in-
evitable. Considerable evidence is now available from the series of inter-
national conferences already conducted under the league of Nations and
the United Nations. That evidence suggests such conferences may serve
modest good purposes but do not have the potential of making a
qualitative difference in the structure and dynamics of world affairs. Such
a conference might reflect a world community if it existed, but it can-
not create that community.
The principal contemporary setting for creating global unity in
diversity is the field of international human rights. Historic progress has
been made in the last half century, and the next generation will provide
a good test for the possibility of a substantial unity that still preserves
"space" for significant human differences, individual freedom, and group
integrity. The unity reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the related covenants and conventions has been achieved in
part because persons, nations, and states have interpreted these historic
documents in different-and often conflicting-ways. Civil wars and in-
ternational wars are still being fought by parties who claim only to be
fighting for their human rights. Yet, the unique achievement of the human
rights movement has been to express the conflicting claims to justice in
terms that-in principle, at least-can be resolved on the basis of reason
and law rather than through violence. Thus, we sec the possibility, and
occasionally the reality, that the cause of disappeared and tortured peo-
ple in Latin America is advanced in the Inter-American Court of Human
Rights rather than in a military confrontation. We sec the claims to self-
determination in Namibia being advanced in the human rights agencies
of the United Nations system. We sec the appeals of Russian Jews and
Pentecostals being supported, not by military threats (which would have
to be backed up by nuclear threats), but by eloquent argument in the
review conferences on the Helsinki Accords.

It would be wrong to claim and naive to hope that these various in-
stitutions for the promotion of human rights are themselves occasions
of unity or that they will produce the idealized unity proclaimed in the
Peace Message. To the contrary, they are usually centers of acrimonious
debate and political posturing. Yet, their potential contribution lies in the
very fact that they reflect the most fundamental of human conflicts and
that they do so in a context whose only legitimate currency is reason and
whose mode of operation is persuasion. Reason and persuasion are
known to be weak, but they also have the unique capacity to transcend
fundamental conflicts. Therefore, at this point in human history, it seems
to me that the institutions and activists concerned with international
human rights are at the center of the process being proclaimed in the
Peace Message. I cannot agree that peace is inevitable, because the kind
of unity needed to sustain it will be so incredibly hard to achieve. Yet, the
message of the Baha'i community is a welcome challenge, and their tangi-
ble witness is a considerable source of inspiration. I cling to the possibility
that they may not be wrong.
Lowell W. Livezey

About the Contributors
Rodrigo Carazo, distinguished statesman, educator, and politician, served
as President of Costa Rica from 1978-1982. An advocate of global peace,
he was the original proponent to the United Nations of a University for
Peace, which was established in 1980. He now serves as the president of
that institution.
Hossain Danesh currently serves as Chairman, Executive Committee,
Association for Baha'i Studies. A psychiatrist by profession, he was, un-
til his recent election as General Secretary of the Baha't Community of
Canada, associate professor of psychiatry and family medicine at the
University of Ottawa.
Richard Falk is the Milbank Professor of International Law and Practice,
Department of Politics, Princeton University. Author of Study of Future
Worlds, Revising the World Court, and The End of the World Order, he
serves as a member of the core group of the United Nations University
Project on Peace and Global Transformation. He is also a member of the
Committee for a Just World.
Johan Galtung is currently a professor of world economics at Princeton
University. His distinguished academic career has seen him teach at over
fifty institutions of higher learning in various parts of the world, and he
has authored a large number of books and articles in his field.
Ervin Laszlo, member of the Club of Rome, has served as director for the
United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) and has most
recently acted as an editor in chief of the World Encyclopedia of Peace
published by Pergamon Press. He is an accomplished classical musician,
editor of numerous scholarly journals, member of the advisory council
of world-minded organizations such as Planetary Citizens, and has
authored over thirty books throughout his distinguished and varied
career.
Lowell W. Livezey is currently serving as Administrative Director of
Undergraduate Programs, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and Inter-
national Affairs, Princeton University. He is also a lecturer in Public and
International Affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School. He has been a

visiting fellow at the Princeton Theological Seminary, and has served as
the Executive Director of the World Without War Council, both in its
Chicago and New York offices. Professor Livezey is the author of
numerous articles on human rights and the American peace movement.

Select Baha'i Bibliography
'Abdu'l-Baha. Paris Talks, Addresses Given By 'Abdu'l-Baha in Paris in
1911-1912. London: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1912. 11th ed.
1969.
The Promulgation of Universal Peace, Talks Delivered By 'Ab-
du 'l-Baha During His Visit to the United States and Canada in
1912. Compiled by Howard MacNutt. Wilmette: Baha'i
Publishing Trust, 1922-1925. 2d ed. 1982.
The Secret of Divine Civilization. Translated by Marzieh Gail
and Ali-Kuli Khan. Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1957.
3d ed. 1975.
Baha'u 'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha. Baha'i World Faith: Selected Writings of
Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha. Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing
Trust, 1943. Rev. ed. 1956.
Baha'u'llah. Tablets of Baha'u 'llah Revealed after the Kitab-i-Aqdas.
Haifa: Baha'i World Centre, 1978.
The Kitab-i-Iqan, The Book of Certitude, Revealed by
Baha'u'llah. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette: Baha'i
Publishing Trust, 1931. 2d ed. 1950.
The Proclamation of Baba 'u 'llah. Haifa: Baha'i World Cen-
tre, 1967.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1944.
3d ed. 1974.
The Promised Day Is Come. Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing
Trust, 1941. 3d ed. 1980.
The World Order of Baba 'u 'llah, Selected Letters. Wilmette:
Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1938. 2d rev. ed. 1974.
Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Unive-rsal House of Justice
1968-1973. Wilmette: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1976.
Wellspring of Guidance, Messages 1963-1968. Wilmette:
Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1969. 2d ed. 1976.