THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-04-17

received by fax only on 14 february. it has asked us to convey to you that

it was deeply saddened to learn that a member of your bahá’í community

has been diagnosed as being infected with the AidS virus. if it will not

be distressing to this friend to know that the news has been shared with the house of justice, then you are asked to kindly extend to him (or her)

its loving sympathy, and the assurance of its fervent prayers at the Sacred Threshold, beseeching bahá’u’lláh to shower this servant of the cause with

his tender mercies and protection.

you ask if there is any guidance on this matter. it is not clear from your

letter whether the situation of this believer is commonly known in the bahá’í

community. if it is, then the house of justice hopes you will encourage the

local Spiritual Assembly involved, and the friends in the community, to turn to non-b ahá’í agencies specializing in dealing with AidS for informa-

tion and counseling as appropriate or needed. furthermore, all should draw

inspiration and guidance from the peerless example of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, whose

compassion, loving understanding and sincere concern for the welfare of others exemplified the b ahá’í attitude to those who are suffering. . . .

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat199.1

199.2

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

2200

Riḍván Message 1995

Ridván 152

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

At this Season of seasons, we greet you with profound pleasure at the

increased activity throughout the bahá’í community during the year just

passed and with ardent expectations as to what must and can be accom-

plished during the last third of the Three year plan. we feel both concern

and hope in the face of the despair besetting leaders of nations and peoples

in their search for solutions to pressing social problems. indeed, such des-

peration is tantamount to a worldwide cry for the Teachings of bahá’u’lláh,

truly a challenge and a promise no conscientious bahá’í institution or indi-

vidual can ignore.

No occasion has more sharply conveyed this melancholy outlook than

the recent world Summit for Social development, the latest in a series of

international gatherings of world leaders called by the united Nations. but

however little may be the immediate influence of such events on the policies of governments, however much the vast majority of the world’s population

may disregard or be unaware of them, their successive occurrence indicates

to any bahá’í observer a gradual movement towards the ultimate fulfillment

of the will of bahá’u’lláh that the rulers of nations meet to consult and

decide on the outstanding issues confronting an increasingly global society.

propitiously on that momentous occasion in copenhagen, an impressive

bahá’í effort, involving some 250 friends from more than 40 countries, was

mounted to acquaint the participants in the Summit and the related Ngo forum with the remedies prescribed by the divine physician. This effort

was extended beyond the Summit and is even now continuing in many places throughout the world. we applaud with heartfelt gratitude the bahá’í

institutions, agencies and individuals who produced this spate of action

before, during and after the Summit, for surely it evinced both the further

advance of our world community in influencing the processes towards the lesser peace and a multiplication of opportunities for a wider diffusion of

the reformative message of bahá’u’lláh. As such world events take place with

greater frequency and the bahá’í community pursues its goals with increased

intensity, we can see more clearly the drawing closer together of the parallel 200.1

200.2

200.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

2processes about which Shoghi effendi wrote several decades ago: the one

leading to the political union of nations, the other to the ultimate union of

hearts in one common faith.

we make these observations against an encouraging background of de-

velopment in the bahá’í community during the second year of the Three

year plan. even more thrilling than the leap in external affairs activities at

local and national levels are the evidences of a qualitative change in the re-

sponse of believers everywhere to the call to teach. A deeper understanding of this inescapable, individual duty is implied by the rise in teaching activ-ity, a heartening situation resulting from several stimulating factors which

all together augur well for the long-awaited influx of troops of new believ-

ers. Among these factors are the attention being given to the compilation on entry by troops as it appears in an increasing number of languages, the

influences of the movement of international and continental counselors

throughout the globe, the evolution in the functioning of Auxiliary board

members and their assistants, the effects of the emphasis being placed on

the education of children, and the vigor of the youth in initiating teaching

projects and engaging in a range of other b ahá’í activities.

conducive to this positive picture is the gathering strength of Spiritual

Assemblies, which are called upon to cope with manifold challenges while

endeavoring primarily to focus on the demands of the teaching work. we

are especially mindful of the burdens borne by National Spiritual Assem-blies as the communities within their jurisdictions grow more diverse in their composition and more complex in their demands upon the guidance

and assistance of these institutions.

The combined impression of the various stages of development at which

the community has arrived suggests that strong effort is being devoted to the

triple theme of the plan, which calls for enhancing the vitality of the faith of

individual believers, greatly developing the human resources of the cause,

and fostering the proper functioning of local and national bahá’í institu-

tions. but as there is yet much to be done along these lines, a more striking

response is required of individuals and institutions, if our community is to

combat the ravages of a rampant moral decadence, to raise up a massive army

of consecrated souls to meet the demands of teaching and of administering the affairs of the faith, and to render our institutions fit for the tasks that a

burst in the size of the community will surely impose upon them.

fundamental to any effective response to the immediate challenges fac-

ing the community are these requisites which are especially addressed to 200.4

200.5

200.6

200.7

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

25the individual and the local Spiritual Assembly: on the one hand is the

initiative that it is the duty and privilege of the individual to take in teach-

ing the cause and in obtaining a deeper understanding of the purpose and

requirements of the faith. parallel with the exercise of such initiative is the

necessity of the individual’s participation in collective endeavors, such as

community functions and projects. on the other hand is the role of the

local Spiritual Assembly to welcome, encourage and accommodate the ini-tiatives of individual believers to the maximum extent possible; and there is, too, the responsibility of the Assembly to devise or promote plans that will employ the talents and abilities of the individual members of its commu-

nity, and that will involve individuals in collective action, such as teaching

and development projects, institutes, and other group activities. The effects of conscientious attempts at realizing these inseparable requisites will be to

expand and consolidate the community and to foster a climate of unified

action.

during the last year, there was a sharp increase in the visits to the world

center of high-ranking government officials, other dignitaries and media

representatives, demonstrating the growing significance of the spiritual and

administrative center of the faith in the eyes of the world. This appeared

to underscore a trend towards a greater familiarity of the governments of the nations with the evolving center of a world faith. viewing this trend

from the mountain of god, the site of the current construction projects,

and considering it in conjunction with the developments taking place in local and national bahá’í communities, we can appreciate more adequately

the unfolding reality of the vision projected by Shoghi effendi when he

explained the implications of the raising up of buildings that will constitute the world administrative seat of the faith of bahá’u’lláh. “This vast and

irresistible process,” he said, “will synchronize with two no less significant

developments—the establishment of the lesser peace and the evolution of

bahá’í national and local institutions.”

200-1 it is a vision which, given the

state of the world, compels the completion of the mount carmel projects

as scheduled.

These projects are advancing with remarkable speed, astonishing pilgrims,

tourists and local residents by their magnitude and emerging magnificence.

The construction work is occurring on all structures at once. work on seven

200-1. mbw , p. 74.200.8

200.9

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

26of the Terraces below and five above the Shrine of the báb is in full force.

more construction contracts were signed during this year than in any previ-

ous one, including the contract recently awarded to an italian firm for the

supply of the marble for the buildings on the Arc. clearly, the work has

gathered a momentum that can abide no delay. hence, a matching momen-

tum in the flow of contributions is imperative, if the remaining forty mil-

lion dollars towards fulfillment of the Three year plan goal of seventy-four

million dollars is to be provided by ri¤ván 1996.

The new year begins auspiciously with the formation this ri¤ván of five

National Spiritual Assemblies. our representatives to the inaugural Nation-

al conventions are the hand of the cause of god Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih

khánum, Armenia and georgia; the hand of the cause ‘Alí-m u¥ammad

varqá, belarus and Sicily; counselor hushang Ahdieh, eritrea. moreover,

during this period the communities of bophuthatswana, ciskei, South Af-

rica and T ranskei will merge under the jurisdiction of one National Spiritual

Assembly of South Africa, so as to reflect the recent political reunion of that region. As a result of the foregoing, the number of National Spiritual

Assemblies throughout the world will rise from 172 to 174.

beloved coworkers: beyond the need to win our goals, humanity’s current

plight summons us to redoubled action. The cloud of despair hanging over

the fortunes of a deranged world is the very harbinger of the spring rain that

can quench the spiritual and material thirst of every people. it has only to be

seeded through constant and confident acts of teaching. The performance

of such acts, though dependent for reinforcement on the functions of bahá’í

institutions, rests primarily and ultimately with b ahá’í individuals.

let no excessive self-criticism or any feelings of inadequacy, inability or

inexperience hinder you or cause you to be afraid. bury your fears in the

assurances of bahá’u’lláh. has he not asserted that upon anyone who men-

tions his Name will descend the “hosts of divine inspiration” and that on

such a one will also descend the “concourse on high, each bearing aloft a chalice of pure light”? Step forth, then, into the arena where all his loved

ones are equally summoned, equally challenged and abundantly blessed.

for to teach, bahá’u’lláh himself affirms, is to do the “most meritorious

of all deeds.”

200-2 And at this extraordinary moment in the history of the

200-2. gwb, nos. 129.3, 128.10.200.10

200.11

200.12

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

27planet, nothing whatever is of more critical importance than inviting people

of every sort and every gift to the banquet table of the lord of h osts.

As we send you this message, clearly before us is a vision of untold vic-

tories waiting to be seized. we are certain you can realize a myriad of these

in the remaining time of the Three year plan. just such an accomplishment

must earnestly be striven for, so as to set the stage for the next global enter-

prise to be launched at ri¤ván 1996. There shall be mobilized then a world-

embracing campaign to ensure a befitting crescendo to the achievements of

a century regarded by no less than ‘Abdu’l-b ahá himself as a period that will

have “left traces which shall last forever.”200-3

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

201

Separation of Church and State

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]