THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-03-28

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

with joyful hearts we announce the appointment of zenaida ramirez as

a counselor member of the i nternational Teaching center.

330

Resignation and Membership

on Regional Bahá’í Councils

16 a pril 2000

The National Spiritual Assembly of the b ahá’ís of b razil

dear b ahá’í f riends,

you ask a number of questions regarding resignation and membership on

regional bahá’í councils. we have been asked to reply to you as follows . . .

To begin, we are reminded in letters written on behalf of the beloved

guardian that service as an elected member of a bahá’í institution is “a

bounty, a privilege and a unique responsibility” which “all the friends should stand ready to accept . . . unless they are definitely incapacitated and could

not possibly take up office.” f urther, we find that,

. . . the guardian wishes you to make clear to all the believers that

membership in a bahá’í Assembly or committee is a sacred obligation

which should be gladly and confidently accepted by every loyal and conscientious member of the community, no matter how humble and inexperienced.

330-1

330-1. dNd, p. 79.329.1

330.1

330.2

330.2a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

712it is, therefore, clear that a member of an elected body such as a regional

council in brazil should not resign from serving, except in extremely rare

cases. w ith this in mind, we turn to the questions raised in your email.

you indicate that one situation that has occurred is when a believer is

elected to both a regional council and a local Spiritual Assembly. further,

you state that the procedure you have adopted in such cases is the same as

when a believer is elected to both the National Spiritual Assembly and a

local Spiritual Assembly, that is, you consider his or her resignation from the local Assembly justified.

in this connection, we are instructed to point out that the h ouse of j us-

tice does not approve the automatic resignation of a member of a National Assembly from a local Assembly, but rather asks that the circumstances

of each case be considered separately. Normally those elected to a local

Assembly and the National Assembly should make every effort to serve on both bodies. The h ouse of j ustice has stated that

if it is too much of a burden and impractical for an individual member

to assume the responsibilities of serving on both the National and the local Assembly, he should present his case to both bodies, and seek consultation. each case should be considered separately, depending

on the circumstances of each member. it may be found that if a Na-

tional Assembly member is an officer of the local Spiritual Assembly,

his resignation as officer of the Assembly, instead of the membership of that Assembly, may solve the problem for that individual.

330-2

in the event that a solution cannot be found, however, membership on

the National Spiritual Assembly would then take precedence over member-ship on the local Assembly. The same principles would apply in the case of

a believer who is elected to both a regional council and a local Assembly.

in such an instance, the local Assembly would accept the resignation at its

own discretion. only if unusual circumstances arise would the case need to

be referred to the National Assembly.

Another situation described in your email is one in which a member of

a regional council is not able to participate in the meetings of the coun-

cil, either occasionally owing to professional obligations or for prolonged

330-2. lg, no. 173. 330.3

330.4

330.5

330.5a

330.6

330.7

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

71periods. in this connection, you ask what degree of flexibility the National

Assembly has in replacing council members. here again, the principles

are clear in the case of an elected body. in a letter written on behalf of

the guardian, we read the following in relation to membership on a local

Spiritual Assembly:

. . . it is only too obvious that unless a member can attend regularly

the meetings of  his local Assembly, it would be impossible for him to

discharge the duties incumbent upon him, and to fulfill his responsi-

bilities, as a representative of the community. membership in a local

Spiritual Assembly carries with it, indeed, the obligation and capacity to remain in close touch with local bahá’í activities, and ability to

attend regularly the sessions of the Assembly.

330-3

further, we share with you the instructions below from the g uardian:

. . . it is establishing a dangerous precedent to allow Assemblies to

put a time limit on non-attendance of their members at meetings of

the S.A. [Spiritual Assembly], beyond which that person is automati-cally dropped from the Assembly and a vacancy declared. . . . There

should be no time limit fixed by Assemblies beyond which a person is dropped. every case of prolonged absence from the sessions of the

Assembly should be considered separately by that Assembly, and if the person is seen to not want to attend meetings, or to be held away from them indefinitely because of illness or travel, then a vacancy could

legitimately be declared and a new member be elected.

330-4

clearly, then, no hard and fast rules should be made as to the length of

the period of absence of an elected member of a regional council from

its meetings before a vacancy is declared, and each case would need to be

decided on its own merit. This is not to say that a National Assembly may

not bring to a council’s attention any problem it notes in the attendance

of the members of a council. yet, as in the case of a local Assembly, it is

the regional council itself which should conclude that a vacancy should be

330-3. dg, no. 128.

330-4. dg, no. 16.330.7a

330.8

330.8a

330.9

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

71declared—this, presumably, after observing that the member in question

does not attend meetings, despite repeated encouragement and attempts

to remove possible impediments. however, unlike a local Assembly which

can declare a vacancy and call for a by-election at its own discretion, the

regional council would need to refer the case to the National Assembly for

final decision. in the event that a vacancy is declared, it would be filled as

specified in item 2.2.5 of the 30 may 1997 statement, that is, “by the person

who had the next highest number of votes on the ballot in the preceding election.”

330-5

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

330-5. See no. 250, pp. 582–93.

2000–2001

The T welve Month Plan

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

716331

Riḍván Message 2000

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]