Lights of
‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán
Colloquia and Seminars
Book Thirteen
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs

Copyright ©2012, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their authors. Reproduc-
tions from this compilation are permitted provided that the sources and authors are
clearly indicated, with the exception of provisional translations, which are not to be
further distributed.
Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Thirteen
‘Irfán Colloquia

Bahá’í National Center 1233 Central Street, Evanston, IL 60201

Phone: (847) 733-3501 · Fax: (847) 733-3527

E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org · www.irfancolloquia.org
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Manuscript Editors Charles Nolley and Omid Nolley
168 B.E. 2012 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-12-1
Design & Layout:
Majid C. Nolley
majidnolley.com

—Baha'u'llah
Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá'u'lláh, p.327–8
My servants! Through the might of God
and His power, and out of the treasury of
His knowledge and wisdom, I have brought
forth and revealed unto you the pearls that lay
concealed in the depths of His everlasting ocean. I
have summoned the Maids of Heaven to emerge
from behind the veil of concealment, and have
clothed them with these words of Mine—words of
consummate power and wisdom. I have, moreover,
with the hand of divine power, unsealed the choice
wine of My Revelation, and have wafted its holy,
its hidden, and musk-laden fragrance upon all
created things. Who else but yourselves is to be
blamed if ye choose to remain unendowed with so
great an outpouring of God’s transcendent and all-
encompassing grace, with so bright a revelation of
His resplendent mercy?…

Table of Contents
Preface .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
The Fragility of Goodness
Shahbaz Fatheazam.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 1
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  23
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ‘Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  71
The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   137
The Choice of the West for `Abdu’l-Baha’s Epoch-making Trip
Baharieh Rohani Ma'ani .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 205
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   243
`Abdu'l-Bahá's Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   273
Interpretation and Elucidation
Ali Nakhjavani .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 309
Bahá’u’llah’s Persian Poems Written Before 1863
Julio Savi .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   317
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   363
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   381
Elucidations
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice .  .  .  . 401
Whether the Apostle Paul was a “False Teacher”.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  409
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based religions
in the Americas .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   415
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Ali Nakhjavani .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 423

Table of Contents
(CONTINUED)
In Memoriam
Ian Semple (1928–2011) .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 427
Appendices
Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations .  .   .   .  437
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One–Twelve .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  438
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  449

i
Preface
The main purpose of the annual sessions of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
and the publication of its proceedings in the Lights of ‘Irfán series is
the promotion of deep and systematic studies in the Writings of the
central figures of the Bahá’í Faith and the fundamental principles
of the Bahá’í belief system embodied in those Writings. Bahá’u’lláh,
founder of the Bahá’í Faith, referring to such scholarly undertaking,
has proclaimed, “Whoso hath searched the depths of the oceans that lie
hid within these exalted words, and fathomed their import, can be said to
have discovered a glimmer of the unspeakable glory with which this mighty,
this sublime, and most holy Revelation hath been endowed.”(GWB 9)
Publication of the present volume of Lights of ‘Irfán coincides with the
centenary of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s extensive, history-making visit to North
America. Four of the articles in this volume are devoted to that visit
and the discussion of the teachings promoted by `Abdu’l-Bahá during
that sojourn. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to North America is a preliminary
analysis of the recorded accounts of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to the United
States and Canada. The Choice of the West for `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-
making Trip explores the reasons for choosing Western Europe and
North America, particularly the United States, and discusses the
tremendous results achieved by this visit. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter
with Modernity During His Western Travels presents a picture of
the developments in material civilization in Europe and America in
the early days of the 20th century, and how many people were living
in relative prosperity and comfort in those democracies but still had
not cast off their racist and sexist beliefs and philosophies. The article
chronicles many situations encountered by `Abdu’l-Bahá during His
travels that would have been entirely new to His experience and how
He responded to them.. The Fragility of Goodness: Hexis and Práxis
in the Historical Figure of `Abdu’l-Bahá seeks to examine, through

ii
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
the lessons presented by `Abdu’l-Bahá’ in His travels to the West,
how the internal goodness of character or the soul may be preserved
despite interference from the material world and how that character
may survive the sobering perspective of moral failure.
Interpretation and Elucidation provides clear and succinct explana-
tions for these two important concepts as they are used in the Bahá’í
Teachings and explores their significance for the unity of the Faith.
While individual Bahá’ís are free to have their own personal under-
standings and ‘interpretation’ of the scripture, their personal views
are considered informal and not binding for other individuals. This is
an essential and protective feature of the Covenant to preserve unity
in the Bahá’í community and protect it from schism. Without this
Covenant, it would be impossible to realize the pivotal principle of
the Bahá’í teachings that calls for unity and fellowship amongst all
the peoples of the world.
Several articles in this volume are related to the interface of the Bahá’í
paradigm with global challenges and philosophical issues. Kant’s
“Perpetual Peace” and the Bahá’í Writings is a comparative study of
Immanuel Kant’s philosophical essay entitled Perpetual Peace and
Bahá’u’lláh’s proposal for the establishment of world unity and peace.
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking: Bahá’u’lláh’s Con-
tribution to Religious Thought invites new ways of thinking. The
author aims at contrasting the views of classical religious apocalyptic
thinking, in which the affairs of the world are viewed as static until
they are suddenly moved from one state to another by supernatural
intervention, with a new conceptualization of change initiated
by the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. Under this new paradigm, religious
change is understood as a continuous process, not a sudden jump
from one state to another. Furthermore, changes in the world are to
be brought about through human effort and not by sudden acts of
external divine intervention. This concept of change is examined in

iii
Preface
relation to 20th century expectations of many Bahá’ís concerning
the establishment of the Lesser Peace, about which there was a great
deal of apocalyptic thinking in the years prior to 2000.
The accelerating effects of secularism and atheism are examined in
two articles: I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise is a commentary
on a prayer of Bahá’u’lláh that explores a basic question of theology
regarding “God” in this day and age, when practical and theoretical
atheism and irreligion has captured the minds and shaped the belief
systems of a large and ever-increasing number of people. The article
seeks to present an answer to the question of “how to believe in God
today,” through a commentary on the four modes of Revelation
described by the Báb, which are used to understand the theological
locus of the many prayers revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.
The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective examines the writings of
four writers (Hitchens, Dawkins, Harris and Dennett) at the fore-
front of a movement to advance an aggressively anti-religious position
that has gathered much popular attention in recent years. The article
carefully analyzes the foundational principles of the “new atheism”
both in light of the Bahá’í Writings and on grounds of philosophical
and scientific rationality, exploring a number of areas in which the
Bahá’í teachings and the new atheists agree, as well as those areas
where they dramatically diverge.
Two thoughtful and scholarly studies in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,
are presented in this volume, both of which concentrate on poems
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian poems written before 1863 provides a provi-
sional list of Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian poems written before the public
declaration of His mission. These poems can be seen as the early fruit
of the mystical experiences Bahá’u’lláh had when He was jailed in the
Síyáh-Chál (Black Pit) in Tehran in October 1852. This meticulously

iv
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
annotated article contains brief descriptions of 16 poems written in
Persian by Bahá’u’lláh together with one additional poem, Qaṣídiy-
i-Varqá’íyyih, which is in Arabic. Please note that translations of
Bahá’u’lláh’s poetry used in this article are temporary and informal.
They are not authorized translations. They are made only for pre-
sentation at the `Irfán Colloquium. These translations should not be
quoted, published or distributed in any form or through any media.
From time to time, Lights of ‘Irfán contains articles related to studies
in the Bahá’í Writings written by non-Bahá’í scholars. In this vol-
ume, we are pleased to welcome another such contribution. Clouds
and the Hiding God: Observations on the Origins of Some Terms in
the Early Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, explores the imagery of clouds,
starting with three early mystical Tablets of Bahá’ulláh, the Per-
sian poem Rashḥ-i-`Amá, together with Lawḥ-í-Kull aṭ-Ṭa’ám, and
Qaṣídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih, in Arabic. The article explores different ways
in which the imagery of the cloud is used in these and other writ-
ings of Bahá’u’lláh. The most common is the cloud as “the hiding
place of the Divine Being”, with related references to clouds as veils.
Other instances include the use of clouds as a vehicle of convey-
ance such as a chariot and the imagery of rain clouds which water
the earth and convey God’s bounties and blessings. The article also
illustrates the continuity of this imagery throughout the sacred
texts of the Abrahamic religions and suggests there is evidence for a
broader, more universal character to this symbolism in the religious
lexicon of humanity.
The section entitled “Elucidations” is aimed at clarifying particular
issues and topics of interest in Bahá’í studies and includes four items:
The first is the letter of 7 April 2008 from the Secretariat of the
Universal House of Justice on the clarification of the Authority and
Centrality of the Universal House of Justice. This letter deals with spe-
cific questions that had arisen regarding the infallibility of the House

v
Preface
of Justice, following publication of the book, “Making the Crooked
Straight” as well as other publications by the same author. This is the
English version of a letter that was written in Persian on behalf of
the Universal House of Justice to the Friends in Iran. It replaces the
courtesy translation that was published in the Elucidations section of
the Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Eleven.
The second item, Whether the Apostle Paul was a “False Teacher,”
is a memorandum of the Research Department of the Bahá’í World
Centre written in response to a question asked by an individual
Bahá’í. It contains references in the Bahá’í Writings to two promi-
nent figures in early Christianity, St. Peter and St. Paul.
Third, is a memorandum dated 2 April 2012 from the Research
Department at the Bahá’í World Centre containing information
gleaned from its study of questions regarding two subjects. The first
concerns the ancient religion of the Sabaeans, considered to be the
ancestral religion of Abraham. The memorandum also addresses
questions about African-based religions that have taken root in the
Americas including Yoruba, Santeria and Brazilian Candomblé.
The final item in this section, Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-
Kubra), is the response to a question asking for clarification of the
nature and purpose of the institutions of the Bahá’í Courts and
the Supreme Tribunal mentioned in the writings of Shoghi Effendi,
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith.
Appendix I in this volume is a tribute to the memory of Mr. Ian
Semple (1928 –2011), who for five decades served as an elected
member, first of the International Bahá’í Council and subsequently
of the Universal House of Justice, the supreme governing body of
the Bahá’í community. He was a sincere supporter of the ‘Irfán
Colloquium and a valuable contributor to the Lights of ‘Irfán.

vi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Appendix II contains the bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and their
abbreviations that are used in the text of the papers for referencing
the sources of the quoted passages.
Appendix III provides a complete list of the contents of previous
volumes of the Lights of ‘Irfán. It also shows the range, types, scope
and methodological approaches of the papers that have been pre-
sented and are welcome to be presented at future ‘Irfán Colloquia.
In addition to the papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia, authors
of research papers related to the main goals of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
are welcome to directly submit their work for publication in the
Lights of ‘Irfán.
Starting with Book Six we made two changes to the style guide
for Lights of‘Irfán. All “authoritative” publications are cited by an
abbreviation (see Appendix II for the current list of these works with
their standard abbreviations). Words of Prophets/Manifestations,
i.e. quotations from Sacred Writings, (not including statements by
Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All papers in this volume present the views and understanding of
their authors. The texts of the papers are published as provided
by the authors. Their writing styles and scholarly approaches are
therefore different. Articles are published in this volume according
to the alphabetical order of the author’s surnames.

Iraj Ayman

Chicago April 2012

The Fragility of Goodness: Hexis and Práxis in the
Historical Figure of `Abdu’l-Bahá
Shabaz Fatheazam
This paper seeks to understand how internal goodness of character
or soul may be preserved from interference from the world and
how character (hexis) and activity (práxis) may survive the sobering
perspective of immense moral failure on the part of a considerable
portion of humankind and of its leadership. Such apparent betrayal
or dismissal of poetic action as of any practical value is examined
through literature and the lessons of `Abdu’l-Bahá’ in His travels
to the West. The conclusion drawn from these sources will attempt
to show that good character engaged in social action is of sufficient
serious practical importance so as to be able to withstand the strikes
made at the root of goodness itself despite the fact that character and
activity are intimately connected and therefore vulnerable.
Prelude
My generation, born in the 50s, is part of this very important cente-
nary celebration. This century is part of us; we belong to this era as
the era belongs to us. This is because our own lifetime coincides with
half of the 100 years that have transpired since `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit
to the West and this, my fortuitous and convenient chronological
insertion, thankfully, absolves me from pretending to be a scholar as
I have accumulated views and prejudices of events as a contemporary
rather than as a scholar and my information, understanding or even
patent contradiction between personal experience and the facts of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
this period may be considered what social anthropologists label as
that of a ‘participant observer’. I hope to communicate something of
what I have learned from watching and listening but these thoughts,
in the end, form the opinion of a mortal and the opinion of mortals,
as the ancients would advise us, is not to be trusted.1
Shoghi Effendi referred to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels to the West as
“missionary journeys”2 and this “triumphal progress through the chief
cities of the United States” 3 brought unprecedented animus and
combative urgency to our era and to America. Then, as indeed now,
there exists the tension between two divergent conceptions of this
nation: does America mean commitment to a national experiment or
consecration of a national destiny. `Abdu’l-Bahá reinforced the latter.
Even Crèvecoeur, the French correspondent, still astonishes by the
contemporaneity of his eighteenth century answer to his own famous
question: “What then is the American, this new man?”4 Every epoch
is “immediate to God” but the Founding Fathers were apprehensive
as the history of antiquity had taught them that republics perish,
that glory is transient, and just as man is vulnerable through his
propensity to sin, republics are vulnerable through their propensity
to corruption.
This warfare between realism and messianism5, between experiment
and destiny, continues to this day. As Bahá’ís in America, we form
a new integration of the social body and a special pivot responsible
for the movements of the historical evolution of this nation. Special
because as Bahá’ís, we have a naturally acute sense of direction and
this can be seen not just in getting the facts right, but in each of us
having a clear judgment as to the ultimate nature of our long-term
vision over the past and over the future.
This is not a responsibility to take lightly and is a telling engagement
of the complexities we must deal with. But it is not just Bahá’ís who
are history conscious. Our generation, and the one before, is history

The Fragility of Goodness
conscious. “This age more than other age is that of a greater histori-
cal consciousness” to quote a notable British historian writing in the
early 1960s.6  This is important to mention because when conscious
of our own situation, we are also more capable of transcending it
and more capable of appreciating the essential nature of the differ-
ences between our own society and that we wish to usher in. “Man’s
capacity to rise above his social and historical situation seems to be
conditioned by the sensitivity with which he recognizes the extent
of his involvement in it.”7  The timing of the arrival of `Abdu’l-Bahá
on American soil amid such a pregnant mood of soul searching was
nothing short of providential and made his missionary journeys par-
ticularly revered as they mirrored the very components of creed and
reality which represented the powerful motive in the American quest.
But as auspicious as was the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá in America
pre-wartime the circumstances surrounding His visit were anything
but propitious. This was a period of history when the world was
irreverently described by a contemporary of `Abdu’l-Bahá as “…a
practical joke of God”8, such the extent of disbelief and general-
ized meaninglessness of the age. Change was no longer viewed as
achievement, as opportunity or progress but as an object of fear,
displacement, inciting an acute sense of angst. How was one to stab
away at the gelatinous mass of popular indifference, sentimentality,
and complacency? To cut through the vast pervasive resistance of the
psyche and of society to forsake manmade shibboleths in favor of the
millennial expectation, “a new heaven and a new earth”? Hope was
thin and the sleep of reason was producing monsters.9  Such was the
climate that greeted the Master as he sailed “on the steamship Cedric,
on March 25, 1912, sailing via Naples direct to New York where He
arrived on April 11”10 a crusade made more difficult by the fact, as
mentioned earlier, that American soil was fertile but with no corre-
sponding drops of concession from the gathering clouds above. And
yet, this historical figure, this ‘Oriental’ in “an outburst of activity”,
“brought the universal divine principles to bear on the exigencies of
the age.” This Hegelian notion that “The great man of his time is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
he who expresses the will and the meaning of that time, and then
brings it to completion; he acts according to the inner spirit and
essence of his time, which he realizes.”11—is one of the many factors
which makes `Abdu’l-Bahá the historical figure He is, aside from the
overarching, eugenic and superhuman factor of His lasting capacity
to inspire and mobilize the masses. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s profound love
for humanity and his quintessential goodness made His leadership
“a public transaction with history”, exemplifying, in consummate
fashion, the proposition that good individuals can and do make a
positive difference to history which brings us more closely to the
subject-matter of today.
Human Nature
Nothing is more fiercely contested than the topic of human nature,
with man resting, on the one hand, on “the apex of creation” and
yet, on the other, precariously lodged lower than angels—an innate,
God-given bi-formity the characterization of which manifests itself
as much for the good as for the bad, depending on which horse is
commanding our chariot, the horse of spirit or appetite.12 Good-
ness is fragile and, therefore, precious precisely because of the kind
of creatures we human beings are and the fact does remain that we
may be incapable of sympathy, unmoved by pain, uncaring of free-
dom, and—no less significant—unable to reason, argue, disagree or
concur. This does not really help the cause of goodness in any way
nor build a very strong case for the altruistic, selfless man. It also
indicates our vulnerability in a life that is “nasty, brutish and short”,13
to cite the memorable observation of Hobbes in The Leviathan. Yet
preferable it is to face this disturbing adversity (‘The struggle itself
toward the heights is enough to fill a man’s heart’ Albert Camus
from his short essay on The Myth of Sisyphus) 14 and contribute
powerfully to understanding and responding to the challenge than
escape to a life of isolation and eliminate the quality of human life

The Fragility of Goodness
altogether. And yet skepticism about humanity is chillingly rooted
and gives us enough reason to worry especially on occasions such as
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to the West at the turn of the 20th century where
many appropriate moments such as civil unrest, poverty, genocide15
and other atrocities gave us cause to engage in critical, not to say
pessimistic, examinations of what was happening and what needed
to be done.16  Is it through the pursuit of reason, ráhi `aql, the way
to preserve goodness? Can critical scrutiny and the determining
influence of intellect rather than goodwill prevent catastrophes? Is a
smarter person a better person? (Such a question ignores the serious
possibility that some people are easily over-convinced by their own
reasoning and ignore counter-arguments that may yield opposite
conclusions). Or like Hume, take the emotions to be both important
and influential and argue that our first perception of right and wrong
cannot be the object of reason, but of immediate sense and feeling.
Or be conciliatory in asserting that both reason and sentiment con-
cur in almost all moral determinations and conclusions, such as the
case of blatant injustice to the Bahá’ís in Iran, where we are drawn
by both indignation and argument. Frustration and ire motivate us
and yet ultimately we have to rely, for both public sympathy, assess-
ment and effectiveness, on reasoned argument to obtain plausible and
sustaining understanding of the underlying cause even though what
feeds the injustice in Iran is implausible, voluble and crude. Or is not
there the danger that centering discussion of moral rectitude on the
dichotomy of thought versus feeling ignores the importance of social
processes. We may do the right thing and yet we may not succeed or,
conversely, a good result may come about not because we aimed at it,
but for some other, perhaps even an accidental, reason and we were
deceived into thinking that we were behaving correctly.17 What, in
the end, is the ultimate arbitrator of ethical beliefs? Is there, behind
human practices, some higher tribunal to which we have recourse
such as, say, shamefulness, learnt punitively by the rod of God’s dis-
pleasure? But we are told by Bahá’u’lláh, in His last major work, that
such a sense of shame, is not a universal human attribute. “Indeed,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
there existeth in man a faculty which deterreth him from, and guardeth
him against, whatever is unworthy and unseemly, and which is known as
his sense of shame.  This, however, is confined to but a few; all have not
possessed, and do not possess, it.”18 Or then is it motivation? That we
find meaning not in anything objective, but in something internal to
ourselves, that it is our desires that determine whether what we do
is worthwhile. Anything is meaningful if we want to do it, indepen-
dently of whether it is reasonable or not to do so.
While such questions clearly illustrate the complexity and range of
discussion regarding human nature and the difficulty in capturing it
in precise axiomatic terms yet the need for explicitness, to the extent
that can be achieved, even in looser terms, must have dialogic merit.
We cannot seek the same answer to two rather different questions:
what would be good or rational for a person to do? and what would the
person actually do? Are we not asking too much from people who may
fail to understand adequately the nature of the uncertainty that may
be involved in deciding on what to expect in any specific case based on
the evidence available? Are we not asking too much from people with
‘weakness of will’19 or with incorrigible and innate selfishness?
An impressive start to lifting this cloud of bewilderment may well
be the remark of Augustine in his book Of True Religion: “Refuse
to go outside…Return to yourself. Truth dwells within.”20  We shall
look, then, deeper within ourselves, pause and think, and ask very
quickly: is there a biological case for human selfishness? Humans,
together with other apes and primates, are social mammals and
among social mammals it is relatively easy to find examples of animal
behavior that are anything but selfish.21 Perhaps the most famous
is the way in which dolphins help its injured members to survive. If
a dolphin is so badly wounded that it cannot come to the surface of
the water to breathe, other dolphins will group themselves around
their wounded companion, pushing it upward to the air. Wolves and
wild dogs bring meat back to members of the pack who were not in

The Fragility of Goodness
on the kill. Chimpanzees lead each other to trees that have ripe fruit.
When hawks fly overhead, blackbirds and thrushes give warning calls,
helping other members of the flock to escape, but perhaps at some risk
of attracting the hawk to themselves. And still many other examples.
But we humans may also be proud to display even higher altruism
than our furry friends, beginning with the family. The readiness of
parents to put the interests of their children ahead of their own inter-
ests is a striking counter-example to the general thesis that people are
selfish. John Stuart Mill described the family ‘as a school of…. loving
forgetfulness of self’.22  The duties of benevolence to our kin—broth-
ers, sisters and more distant relatives—is also widely accepted in
every society and prominent not to mention caring for others.23  In
brief, human beings often are selfish—altruism it is said, is really
self-interest on disguise—but our biology does not force us to be
so. Recently, and ever-more increasingly, we come across research
that is giving us a different side to the story. These tell us about
sympathy, empathy, cooperation, and collaboration, written by
scientists, evolutionary psychologists, neuroscientists and others.
One such author argues that in pursuing our self-interested goals we
often have an incentive to repay kindness with kindness so others will
do the same when we are in need. We have an incentive to establish
a reputation for niceness so that people would want to work with us.
We have an incentive to work in teams because cohesive groups thrive
and egocentrism does not. Cooperation is as central to evolution as
mutation and selection.24  In short, we must avoid a miniaturized
view of human nature and not allow reasoned ground for behavior,
alone, to be our focus. If we are to make properly considered ultimate
choices, we must become aware of, and feel for, the ethical ramifi-
cations of the way we live. Only then is it possible to make human
goodness a more conscious and coherent part of everyday life. Is
there a model, a cosmos of human goodness, to which we may turn
for absolute moral wisdom which allows our limited human intel-
lect to frame a perfect ideal of rational conduct not foredoomed to
inevitable failure or is every agent actuated only by self-interest, that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
the contemporary human being is ‘for the most part an impure egoist,
a mixed utilitarian’? 25
Images of Perfection
In the figure of `Abdu’l-Bahá we can look to the world outside and
follow a living, historical, ‘perfect Exemplar’, this “…most perfect
bounty… sent…down in the form of a human temple.”26 Images
of perfection distilled in one man. We can observe and marvel at
this ‘Orb of the beauty of the great’. `Abdu’l-Bahá embodied, in both
content and style, a unique conception of human excellence. While
not free from the vulnerability of human lives to fortune, while not
protected from the mutability of circumstance, while never distant
from the existence of opposition and conflict in His commitments,
while consistently challenged by the complexity, the indeterminacy,
the sheer difficulty of actual human deliberation, His was a human
story which, while sufficiently distant from our experience, counts
as a shared extension of all of humanity’s experience. His life was
rooted firmly in the divine, and as such God-loved, and thusly,
immortal as ever a human being can be. We turn to the wise not
in despair, grappling as we are with the widespread loss of religious
faith, but to try and be as they were, to follow what they preached,
to look to what they saw, and as such, gain insight into our own
intuitions about living the life. `Abdu’l-Bahá led His life in a way for
us to learn and study the morally salient, that hunting and trapping
are inappropriate aims of a human life, that human excellence in
its nature is other-related and social and that the true value of our
rationality lies in openness, receptivity and wonder. As interpret-
ers of His life, we must respond emotionally. He would like to see
that our cognitive activity, as we explore the True Exemplar, cen-
trally involves emotional response. That we discover what we think
about Him partly by noticing how we feel about Him. In other
words, `Abdu’l-Bahá is the compass which is to guide our personal

The Fragility of Goodness
investigation into our own emotional geography as a major part of
our search for self-knowledge. But His sympathy, generosity, and
public spirit27 did not inhibit `Abdu’l-Bahá from pressing for social
improvement through systematic reasoning. His works continue
to remain unexhausted, subject to perennial reassessment. His
translucent art of writing was purified from non-intellectual appeals
and His talks clear and recognizable with a philosophical style at
once content-neutral, at once speculative, and mostly practical. He
was uniquely able to display opposed conceptions of human reason,
ranging from abstract contemplation to a versatile and resourceful
type of intelligence that concerns itself with mutable objects in a
world of concrete particulars.
`Abdu’l-Bahá is a meticulously crafted working-through of a unique
human story, ‘abundant, spacious, and immeasurable’28  designed
to bring certain themes and questions to our attention. His story
advances our conversation so we may complete those life projects
necessary to complete His. He did not teach us to seek the solitary
good life but the good life with friends, loved ones, and community.
He did not teach us to consider the intellect as pure sunlight, but as
flowing water, given and received. He did not teach us leadership as
statecraft but as service; it is the servant leader, with his humility,
that shows the way, sets the patterns and holds society together and
when these patterns disappear so too does society, slowly. Progress
stands or falls on the quality of servant leadership.29 Without ser-
vant leadership movement in history is short-lived. Humility, the
willingness to lead and encourage from behind, was what generated
such strong emotions of respect and esteem for `Abdu’l-Bahá and
which form part of Aristotlean philia, loving the whole of another
person for that person’s own sake.  `Abdu’l-Bahá’s humility and
self-effacement generates a strong desire to be more like him. This
principle works powerfully in society, where shared public models of
excellence play an important motivating role, and philia has greater
motivational power through emulation that cannot be replaced by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
a more general social modeling. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s example excels all
other models of goodness precisely because of the strength of emula-
tion and aspiration that is generated by the presence of this uniquely
loved person who never failed to endorse the value of the virtue
humility. “…under no circumstances, whatsoever,’ He says ‘should we
assume any attitude except that of gentleness and humility.”30
We are giving this perception of `Abdu’l-Bahá, both cognitive and
affective, to encourage a reflective look at this model of goodness
and to enhance understanding of our own character and aspirations,
improving self-criticism and sharpening judgment. We are not here
endorsing Carlyle’s ‘Great Man Theory’31 nor the cult of personal-
ity—a malady of modern times—but strongly believing, through
the evidence of personal accounts, that `Abdu’l-Bahá, while never a
political figure in the usual sense of the word, nor just an outstand-
ing social and intellectual leader, was the perfect representative of
a creator of social forces which change the shape of the world and
the thoughts of men. This is the meaning of the being called genius,
where both the intellectual and the generative component co-exist32.
The notion of genius is best begun with St. Augustine’s statement:
“Quid est genius? [What is genius?] “Deus qui praepositus est ac vim
habet omnium rerum gignendarum...”[God hath purposed it to be
He who regenerates all things]33 This reminds us of Bahá’u’lláh’s own
words on the regenerating power of His Son: “Render thanks unto
God, O people, for His appearance; for verily He is the most great Favour
unto you, the most perfect bounty upon you; and through Him every
mouldering bone is quickened. Whoso turneth towards Him hath turned
towards God, and whoso turneth away from Him hath turned away from
My Beauty, hath repudiated My Proof, and transgressed against Me. He
is the Trust of God amongst you, His charge within you, His manifesta-
tion unto you and His appearance among His favoured servants . . . We
have sent Him down in the form of a human temple. Blest and sanctified
be God Who createth whatsoever He willeth through His inviolable His
infallible decree. They who deprive themselves of the shadow of the Branch,

The Fragility of Goodness
are lost in the wilderness of error are consumed by the heat of worldly
desires, and are of those who will assuredly perish.”34
The Ultimate Criterion of Goodness
There is this common fault of minds for which the vision of life
becomes an obsession to group things either into a larger mystery
or into a larger library where everything is diligently, but separately,
catalogued and labeled rather than brought into a unified whole. The
historical figure of `Abdu’l-Bahá avoids either extreme because He is
truth in the appearance—His perfection dismisses the objectionable
dilemma of us having to adopt a standpoint of perfection which pur-
ports to survey all lives neutrally and coolly from a viewpoint outside
our own particular life which will immediately stand accused of failure
of reference, for in removing ourselves from all worldy experience we
are also removing ourselves from the bases of discourse about the
world. With `Abdu’l-Bahá we do not need to take up a stand outside
of the conditions of our normal human life but base our judgment
on His long and broad and deep experience of practical and spiritual
wisdom. In this sense, our ultimate criterion of goodness cannot be
theoretical but practical. But is it practical? This is a legitimate ques-
tion if the life of `Abdu’l-Bahá is not attainable with our capabilities.
The life of a divine being might be ever so admirable but the study of
his life, insofar as it lies beyond our capabilities, is not pertinent to the
practical claims of ethics. Our humble response is this: make goodness,
at the very minimum, to be an acceptable life that we can live. Use the
historical figure of `Abdu’l-Bahá both as a predictive device (trying to
guess what He would likely do in a given situation) and as a criterion
of goodness (assessing what norms must be followed for our choice to
be seen as good). In brief, deliberately maximize behavior, that which
you are trying to promote in terms of human excellence, and actu-
ally do it. As Aristotle would say: “Excellence is a state of character
(hexis) concerned with choice…determined by a person of practical

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
wisdom.”35  In his view, the person of practical wisdom is a person of
good character. There is a statement of `Abdu’l-Bahá akin to this. “...
the happiness and greatness, the rank and station, the pleasure and peace,
of an individual have never consisted in his personal wealth, but rather in
his excellent character, his high resolve, the breadth of his learning, and his
ability to solve difficult problems.”36
But as mentioned earlier, rational choice of what to do is not a
predictor of what is actually chosen. The faculty of will has to be
considered. Free will makes moral responsibility possible and, con-
sequently, makes it as important as the faculty of discrimination
or perception, the most valuable manifestation of our practical
rationality. We may be intellectually ready to follow `Abdu’l-Bahá
but our will is not willing. Not just the going but the arriving also
requires nothing other than the willingness to go. Our will can-
not be split in two. What is necessary, paraphrasing Augustine, is
willing strongly and wholly, not the turning and twisting one way
and another of a will half-wounded, struggling with one part—the
beast—rising up while the other part—the angel—falls down. The
beast in this case being the rational appetite (affectio commodi) to
will for one’s own advantage and the angel in us, our inclination for
justice (affectio justitiae). The first explains our inclination toward
what is good for ourselves, that which most contributes to our
own happiness; the second is to do good regardless of whether it
has any connection to ourselves, the inclination for justice which
resists pure self-interest. It is the latter that must be developed as
it grounds our crucial capacity to love God and for His own sake
rather for our own reward.
How is our will trained? Our will is shaped by habitual decisions.
Acquiring the right sort of habit from an early age is very important,
indeed all-important. All the human virtues, in the final analysis, are
dispositions of the will so human goodness requires that the will be
infused with virtue. A will that has been badly habituated from a

The Fragility of Goodness
young age can find itself in the iron grip of necessity making it very
difficult for us to transform on our own. The importance of habit
may be summarized by Aristotle’s expression of the point: “the Law
has no power towards obedience but that of habit”.37  People have a
natural capacity for good character, and this capacity is developed
through practice. A capacity does not come first (i.e., it does not pre-
cede an action)—it is developed through practice. Habits are devel-
oped through acting; a person’s character is the structure of habits
and is formed by what that person does. Once brought up in good
habits, ethical values are in us: they form the internal structure of
our nature, making us psychologically stable against any events that
the world can devise. Thusly, human virtue becomes incorruptible.
Taking action inconsistent with core values is irresponsible and
undisciplined.
In the Bahá’í teachings, however, there is an added dimension to habit
formation and that is the power of divine assistance and grace. “The
labor is beyond me’, Augustine cried, ‘until you open the way.”38 This
role of grace in perfecting virtue is central to Bahá’í teachings hence
the importance of prayer and fasting, in particular, and our spiritu-
alization in general. `Abdu’l-Bahá says “that prayer is indispensable
and obligatory, and man under no pretext whatever is excused therefrom
unless he be mentally unsound or an insurmountable obstacle prevent
him.”39 As to observing the fast Bahá’u’lláh tells us that it purifies
our souls and rids us of all attachment to anyone but God. This is
supremely important if we wish to acquire divine grace. Consequently,
we, as Bahá’ís, do not believe in failure of will but in a flawed disposi-
tion of will which makes it impossible for us to be efficacious as moral
human beings. To live in a state of grace we need spiritual receptivity
and volition. We have to be as talented in our spiritual architecture
as engineers are clever in their design. The colossal gossamer tracery
of iron called the Eiffel Tower, at the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to
Paris, the world’s tallest structure at 1,050 feet, weighs at more than
10,000 tons and yet it exerts a pressure of only 57 pounds per square

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
inch upon the ground!40 A titanic grace amidst sinuating, intricate,
testing and opposing metallic knots and bolts. Similarly the principles
of magnetism, constructive interaction and testing are central to our
process of spiritualization.41  Action (práxis) carried out in a spirit
of devotion and consecration attracts a great spiritual force just as in
the mundane world certain arrangements of atoms attract the force of
magnetism. “Today, as never before, the magnet which attracts bless-
ings from on high is teaching the Faith of God.”42 In another place,
the Guardian says, “consecration to the glorious task of spreading the
Faith and living the Bahá’í life ... creates the magnet for the Holy Spirit.”43
Constructive interaction, the second principle, is persisting with the
efforts despite the tidal wave of lethargy and apathy. One has only to
begin. ‘’Abdu’l-Bahá reportedly said “Make a start, make a beginning.
You will attract spiritual powers. This will reinforce your endeavors. You
will do even more, attract even greater spiritual powers...”44 By making
an effort we attract even more power, which enables us to bear more
weight and responsibility and so it builds up from there, to fight irre-
spective of the consequences:
“And do not think of the fruit of action.
Fare forward.
...


Not fare well,
But fare forward, voyagers.
T.S. Eliot ‘Four Quartets’—The Dry Salvages Part III.
The third principle is that of testing and this is inevitable. “We are
tested to see if we really have the fortitude, the strength, the deter-
mination to persist in the face of adversity, in the face of distraction,
in the face of ridicule, in the face of the desire to relax, to avoid the
hardship and the effort that is involved.”45 To emerge from all this
whole, good and strong willed requires the mind of an architect, the
creativity of the engineer and the strength and perseverance of the
construction worker.

The Fragility of Goodness
Closing Remarks
The Bahá’í Faith spans just two lifetimes; it is too green a plant.
It has yet to be nurtured, to grow, to mature, to become a “model
for study”. Can its destiny of ever flourishing to be the spiritual
commonwealth of the globe be challenged at any time? Religion
has bestowed human safety and human beneficence but it also
has shocked for its repellant violence, crudity, dangerous lies and
spectacle of decline. Religious decline is largely self-inflicted and the
answer to the question of whether the Bahá’í Faith shall emerge as
the global religion lies in us. Why else would the Báb mention in the
Bayán “…that every religion of the past was fit to become universal. The
only reason why they failed to attain that mark was the incompetence
of their followers.”46 Bad soil, receiving opportunities from God, may
yield a good crop. Good soil, however, if it fails to get what it needs,
will give a bad crop. We must tend to our garden and preserve internal
goodness by pulling out the fleshly weeds. Religion depends on the
nourishment of human goodness to thrive and on the incorruptibility
of a noble character. And the greatest part of a noble character is
guilelessness, openness, simplicity and with the departure of open-
ness comes a loss of goodness. If I question everything and look for
betrayal instead of consolation behind every expression of love, I am,
quite simply, no longer a noble person, perhaps no longer a person at
all. We need religion, its ‘laws and immutable norms born in the airy
heavens’ to effect a righting of the balance when a human requirement
is violated from the interference of the world. But religion also needs
us; it rests on the stability of good actions in times of adversity, strong
enough to withstand the blast of chance events, impurity and betrayal,
and we must defend it against the vulnerability to rottenness when
trust or the covenant is violated, as vulnerable as a child’s trusting
simplicity. All of human life and its institutions stand in need of a
proper rhythm and harmonious adjustment; the adjustment is not
natural (it requires the intervention of habit, discipline and external
assistance to reach its natural ends) but the need for it is. Moral training

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
promotes healthy and natural growth—it is the straightening of the
tree with moral excellence the embodiment of its straightness. Be it
action, rule or disposition, moral excellence remains the culmination
of a conscious and comprehensive spiritual outcome where eye, mind
and heart are not at ‘mortal war’ but conquering.47  However good we
make ourselves true goodness remains a free gift of God.
NOTES
“You will...also learn the opinion of mortals, in which there is no
true confidence.” Parmenides, quoted in Martha Nussbaum’s “The
Fragility of Goodness: Luck and Ethics in Greek Tragedy and Philosophy”,
Cambridge University Press, 1986, revised edition 2001, page 241

The Fragility of Goodness
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979 second
printing, p 282
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá`u`lláh, US Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1991 first pocket-size edition, page 85
Quoted in the Foreword of “The Cycles of American History”, Arthur M.
Schlesinger, Jr., page xii
The Calvinists in New England self-proclaimed their journey as the
elect to salvation beyond history: “Without doubt, the Lord Jesus hath
a peculiar respect unto this place, and for this people.”  Quoted in “The
Cycles of American History”, Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., page 13
Edward H. Carr, “What is History”, Random House, 1961, Page 168
Ibid, page 54
Franz Kafka (1883–1924) see http://www.thefreedictionary.com/
world
Even modern and contemporary art was producing ever eccentric styles.
To illustrate the hypocrisy and double standards of society, Pablo
Picasso painted the famous The Red Armchair, in 1931, where a face
appears with its profile and front together for the first time. The oil
and enamel painting is currently on display at the Institute of Arts of
Chicago.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979
second printing, p 281
From G.W.F. Hegel, Philosophy of Law in Jacob Loewenberg (ed.),
Hegel: Selections (New York: C. Scribner’s Sons, 1929), p. 461.
We are, of course, referring to Socrates’ argument that a good person
is one who has the parts of the soul in the proper relationship to each
other. In the Phaedrus, Plato puts forward the same view by picturing
reason as a charioteer, commanding the two horses of spirit and appe-
tite. Socrates and Plato held that nobody does wrong willingly; people
do wrong only if their reason is unable to control their spirit (emotions
like anger or pride) or their appetite (for example greed or lust). The
limitation of the rational actor was fiercely advocated by Aristotle as we
shall see later.
Thomas Hobbes, The Leviathan, http://oregonstate.edu/instruct/
phl302/texts/hobbes/leviathan-contents.html, Chapter XIII
http://www.sccs.swarthmore.edu/users/00/pwillen1/lit/msysip.htm
In the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels to the West, the only genocide in
the modern sense of the word, (the term first appeared in 1941), would

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen

be the colonial administration of King Leopold II of Belgium in his Congo
Free State in the years 1895–1915 where the Congo population was
decimated in the millions for slave labor. The first genocide of the 20th
century began a few years after `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels to the West , in 1915,
when there began the systematic persecution of Armenians in Turkey.
Although the lengths with which such pessimism perdures may be
more wearing than worrying. W.B. Yeats wrote on the margin of his
copy of Nietzsche’s The Genealogy of Morals, “But why does Nietzsche
think the night has no stars, nothing but bats and owls and the insane
moon?” quoted in Amartya Sem’s brilliant book The Idea of Justice,
Harvard University Press, 2009, page 36. Yeats’ poem The Second
Coming is particularly auspicious written as it was soon after `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s visit to the West, in 1919, and used as an allegory to describe
the atmosphere in post-war Europe. “Surely some revelation is at hand/
Surely the Second Coming is at hand/ The Second Coming...”
We may wish to refer to the existence of the ‘stochastic’ arts, e.g. medi-
cine, navigation, where the outcomes of following known and perfected
scientific techniques do not necessarily produce the desired outcome.
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988,
page27.
The ancient Greeks called it akrasia, where ordinary deliberative
rationality breaks down. This was Aristotle’s chief criticism with the
Socrates and Plato doctrine which said that to know what is good is
already to seek to bring it about. For example, we eat a bagel before
running knowing full well that it will give us a cramp. We are swayed
by the appetitive desire the bagel arouses. In this role of the passions,
knowing what is right is not sufficient for doing what is right.
Quoted in The Cambridge Companion to Medieval Philosophy, Ed. A.S.
McGrade, Cambridge University Press, 2003, page 208.
For a complete discussion on this subject, see Peter Singer, How Are
We To Live: Ethics in an Age of Self-Interest, Prometheus Books, 1995,
Chapter 5.
Ibid, page 107.
There is this extraordinary telling account of an Italian chemist, Primo
Levi, sent to Auschwitz because he was Jewish and survived to write If
This is a Man. As a slave on rations that were not sufficient to sustain
life, he was saved from death by Lorenzo, a non-Jewish Italian who was
working for the Germans as a civilian on an industrial project for which
the labour of the prisoners was being used. Here is an extract: “In
concrete terms it amounts to little: an Italian civilian worker brought
me a piece of bread and the remainder of his ration every day for six
months; he gave me a vest of his, full of patches; he wrote a postcard

The Fragility of Goodness

on my behalf and brought me the reply. For all this he neither asked
not accepted any reward , because he was good and simple and did not
think that one did good for a reward...I believe that it was really due
to Lorenzo that I am alive today; and not so much for his material
AID, as for his having constantly reminded me by his presence, by his
natural and plain manner of being good, that there still existed a just
world outside our own, something and someone still pure and whole,
not corrupt, not savage, extraneous to hatred and terror; something
difficult to define, a remote possibility of good, but for which it was
worth surviving.” Quoted in Peter Singer, How Are We To Live: Ethics
in an Age of Self-Interest, Prometheus Books, 1995, Page 159.
Martin Novack, author of SuperCooperators, published in the Tuesday,
May 17th, 2011 edition of the New York Times newspaper, page A25.
The article, written by David Brooks, cites other works of a similar vein,
recently being published.
The economist Francis Edgeworth, quoted in Amartya Sem, The Idea of
Justice, Harvard University Press, 2009, page 184.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979
second printing, p 242.
It is interesting that Adam Smith, the father of modern economics,
states these very reasons for going against the dictates of self-love. See
his Theory of Moral Sentiments, Clarendon Press, 1976, Page 191.
Hasan Balyuzi, `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh,
Paperback, Oxford, UK, George Ronald, 2001, page 1.
The phrase “Servant Leadership” was coined by Robert K. Greenleaf in
The Servant as Leader, an essay that he first published in 1970. In that
essay, he said:”The servant-leader is servant first… It begins with the
natural feeling that one wants to serve, to serve first. Then conscious
choice brings one to aspire to lead. That person is sharply different from
one who is leader first, perhaps because of the need to assuage an unusual
power drive or to acquire material possessions…The leader-first and the
servant-first are two extreme types. Between them there are shadings
and blends that are part of the infinite variety of human nature.” “The
difference manifests itself in the care taken by the servant-first to make
sure that other people’s highest priority needs are being served. The best
test, and difficult to administer, is: Do those served grow as persons? Do
they, while being served, become healthier, wiser, freer, more autonomous,
more likely themselves to become servants? And, what is the effect on
the least privileged in society? Will they benefit or at least not be further
deprived?” Refer to the site www.greenleaf.org for articles and books on
this very special subject of leadership.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 128. A world-wide IBM
Survey in 2010 asked over 3,000 undergraduate and graduate students
their view of future leaders and their qualities. Humility as a virtue
of the CEO came last. See “Capitalising on Complexity—Insights from the
Global CEO Study”, IBM Institute for Business Value, 2010.
Carlyle comments in his book On Heroes, Hero-Worship and the Heroic
in History that “The history of the world is but the biography of great
men,” reflecting his belief that heroes shape history through both
their personal attributes and divine inspiration. This, however, must
be viewed in the context that the natural social process of civilization
brings forth new ideas in specific stages of history which cannot be
explained simply in terms of the revolt of one or the other individual.
The actions of heroes were not of individuals acting alone in a vacuum:
they acted in the context and under the stimulus of a social past. The
Great Man theory also reduces the quality of explaining how and why
change actually occurs. The process of change is better described as
a “clash of wills out of which there emerges something that no man
probably ever willed”. Carlyle slightly contradicts himself with this
passage taken from his masterful The French Revolution published in
1837:  “Hunger and nakedness, and nightmare oppression lying heavy on
twenty-five million hearts; this, not the wounded vanities or contradicted
philosophies of philosophical Advocates, rich Shopkeepers, rural Noblesse,
was the prime mover in the French Revolution.” Book 3 III Chapter 3.3.1
page 426.
The original Greek of the term genius does indeed mean the ‘to be born’
or ‘to come into being’. See Henry Hitchings, The Secret Life of Words,
Farrar, Strauss & Giroux, New York, 2008, Chapter 6, Page 110.
Quoted in C.S. Lewis, The Allegory of Love, Oxford University Press,
1968, Appendix I, Page 361.
Bahá’u’lláh, quoted by Shoghi Effendi in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 135
Quoted in Martha Nussbaum’s “The Fragility of Goodness: Luck and
Ethics in Greek Tragedy and Philosophy”, Cambridge University Press,
1986, revised edition 2001, pages 298–299. By practical wisdom is
meant to structure our lives and commitments so that in the ordinary
course of events we will be able to stay clear of serious conflict.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1970, pages 23–24.
http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/politics.2.two.html, Part VIII
Augustine’s Confessions [XI 22] quoted in The Cambridge Companion
to Medieval Philosophy, Ed. A.S. McGrade, Cambridge University Press,
2003, page 222.

The Fragility of Goodness
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith: Selected Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
and `Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1953, page 368.
Mentioned in a magnificent photographic publication “Spectacular
Paris”, Universe Publishing, New York, 2008, page 12.
These ideas are taken exactly as presented in a talk by Peter Khan
entitled The Nature and Challenge of Tests, at the Bahá’í Temple in
Wilmette, September 23rd, 1995. The talk may be accessed by visiting
the site
From a letter 28 March 1953 on behalf Shoghi Effendi to an individual
believer, cited in  Compiation of Compilations vol II, p. 223
From a letter dated 18 December 1953 written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to an individual believer, cited in High Endeavours: Messages to
Alaska p. 55)
From a tallk by Peter Khan entitled The Nature and Challenge of Tests,
at the Bahá’í Temple in Wilmette, September 23rd, 1995
ibid
From a letter dated 20 February 1932 written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to an individual believer, cited in the Compilation on Living the
Life, Paragraph # 1275.
A scholar at Stanford University, ironically, the same University which
`Abdu’l-Bahá famously visited some 100 years earlier (more precisely,
October 8th, 1912), wrote in a recent feature of The Economist : “...
though hundreds of new religions appear and disappear every year, it has
been centuries since a truly new great religion has appeared on this planet.
We are overdue for a new god.” (Paul Saffo “The World in 2011”, The
Economist, page 112). The opacity of this unfortunate remark, this
splendid exaggeration of omission of the Faith Bahá’í, we may dismiss
as the rash sally of a careless writer but for the spot from which this
statement was made, our disappointment becomes more evident. A
blow to scholarship it is but of greater damage is this indictment
of `Abdu’l-Bahá: “It is the light of the intellect which gives us knowledge
and understanding, and without this light the physical eyes would be
useless [Paris Talks - `Abdu’l-Bahá]. Nietzsche may be excused for his
premature exaltation: “Almost 2,000 years and no new God” [The Anti-
Christ Page 19] born as he was in the very year in which the Bahá’í Era
began and dying only a few years after the passing of Bahá’u’lláh, but
our Stanford professor writing in late November of last year [2010] had
only to use readily accessible sources to discover that the Bahá’í religion
was listed in The Britannica Book of the Year (1992) as the second most
widespread of the world’s independent religions in terms of the number
of countries represented.

“I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise”
Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang Klebel
This prayer by Bahá’u’lláh1 gives access to the basic question of theol-
ogy about “God” for this day and age, in which practical and theoretical
atheism and irreligion have captured at least half of mankind, not only
in the East but also in the West. It presents an answer to the question
how to believe in God today and how to understand words like the
following in another prayer by Bahá'u'lláh: “O Thou Who art the most
manifest of the manifest and the most hidden of the hidden!” (PM 248)
In these reflections the four modes of Revelation described by the Báb
are used to understand the theological location of the many prayers of
the Bahá’í Manifestations. According to the Báb, prayer is the second
mode of Revelation after the Verses of God. Here the language of
revelation is uttered in the voice of the Prophet Who now speaks in
the station of the creation, addressing the Creator with an attitude of
servitude and effacement (an affirmation of ‘Thou art God’)2.
The other two modes of revelation are commentaries and scientific
educational discourse. Theological inquiry can benefit from this
distinction insofar as the prayers of Bahá'u'lláh are a valid source of
theological information, giving the Bahá'í theology a special advan-
tage in the sense of Hans Urs von Balthazar’s distinction between
“kneeling” and “sitting” theology.3 This distinction between the two
modes of theology refers to a theology in its connection to contem-
plative prayer, on the one hand, and to a theology as scientific and
educational understanding of the Revelation, on the other. This

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
distinction can benefit the student of theology and clarify issues,
previously not clear.
The reflections on this prayer of Bahá'u'lláh brings a number of
important questions to light. What is the difference between not
knowing how to praise and describe God in the Bahá'í Faith, and
the denial of the existence of God in atheism? What is the relation
of the Manifestation to God? Consequently, how do these questions
affect religion in today’s world? What is the meaning of modern
atheism and agnosticism and in what way has the understanding of
God changed during the last centuries? Does theology today have to
be a “post-atheistic” theology and has any previous theology become
inadequate? What is the theological position of the praying person
and what is prayer and what is it not? What should we pray for and
what is the effect of prayer?
According to the Bahá’í principle of progressive revelation, every rev-
elation responds to the needs of the time; every revelation abolishes,
conserves, and expands the previous revelations. Therefore, trying
to find new theological insights from Bahá'í prayers is a legitimate
scholarly task and this paper attempts to serve as an example of this
process. Consequently, Bahá’í theology can legitimately be called
progressive theology as it documents the progress of understanding
the Bahá'í Revelation throughout the time given to this Revelation.
These reflections have a personal aspect. Bahá’í prayers are used by
the faithful as private prayers. It appears to be the first time in the
history of religion, that the prayers of the Manifestation are used by
the faithful in this personal way. The following reflections helped the
writer and, hopefully, will help the reader to improve their devotional
life and to understand what is expressed when reciting or chanting
Bahá'í prayers. Any theological inquiry needs to be applicable in the
life of the faithful; otherwise, “such academic pursuits as begin and end
in words alone have never been and will never be of any worth.” (TB 169)

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Let us now turn to Bahá’u’lláh’s prayer which is divided into four
paragraphs. The first describes the Not-knowing of how to sing God’s
praise, how to describe God’s glory and how to call God’s name. In
this paragraph, it is emphasized that no creature can do this. This
impotence is extended to the issue of praising God’s essential oneness,
which is included in this declaration of impotence, of Not-Knowing.
Any attempt to do this is described as vain imagination.
In the second paragraph the impossibility of knowing God is again
pointed out, but then the mercy of God is depicted, which allows
the servant to praise God. It presents a colorful picture of this praise.
Further, it is noted that this praise will result in the believers attain-
ing what God has destined for them through divine will and purpose.
In the third paragraph, the total impotence of all created beings, even
of the Manifestations to praise God, is again declared. Following this,
it is explained that it is God—the all Powerful and Supreme Ruler—
Who draws the believer towards Him.
In the last paragraph this relationship between God and the human
person is again the topic and it is emphasized the personal charac-
teristics necessary to appeal to God’s mercy and grace. Moreover, it
is again pointed out that God is the cause of the prayer, which allows
the servant to reach the heights to which he aspires. The closure of
the prayer again lauds God’s forgiving mercy and bountiful gift.
Bahá’u’lláh’s Prayer
All-praise be to Thee, O Lord, my God! I know not how to sing
Thy praise, how to describe Thy glory, how to call upon Thy
Name. If I call upon Thee by Thy Name, the All-Possessing, I
am compelled to recognize that He Who holdeth in His hand
the immediate destinies of all created things is but a vassal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
dependent upon Thee, and is the creation of but a word pro-
ceeding from Thy mouth. And if I proclaim Thee by the name
of Him Who is the All-Compelling, I readily discover that He
is but a suppliant fallen upon the dust, awe-stricken by Thy
dreadful might, Thy sovereignty and power. And if I attempt
to describe Thee by glorifying the oneness of Thy Being, I soon
realize that such a conception is but a notion which mine own
fancy hath woven, and that Thou hast ever been immeasurably
exalted above the vain imaginations which the hearts of men
have devised.
The glory of Thy might beareth me witness! Whoso claimeth to
have known Thee hath, by virtue of such a claim, testified to his
own ignorance; and whoso believeth himself to have attained
unto Thee, all the atoms of the earth would attest his powerless-
ness and proclaim his failure. Thou hast, however, by virtue of
Thy mercy that hath surpassed the kingdoms of earth and heaven,
deigned to accept from Thy servants the laud and honor they
pay to Thine own exalted Self, and hast bidden them celebrate
Thy glory, that the ensigns of Thy guidance may be unfurled in
Thy cities and the tokens of Thy mercy be spread abroad among
Thy nations, and that each and all may be enabled to attain
unto that which Thou hast destined for them by Thy decree, and
ordained unto them through Thine irrevocable will and purpose.
Having testified, therefore, unto mine own impotence and the
impotence of Thy servants, I beseech Thee, by the brightness of
the light of Thy beauty, not to refuse Thy creatures attainment
to the shores of Thy most holy ocean. Draw them, then, O my
God, through the Divine sweetness of Thy melodies, towards the
throne of Thy glory and the seat of Thine eternal holiness. Thou
art, verily, the Most Powerful, the Supreme Ruler, the Great
Giver, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Desired.

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Grant, then, O my God, that Thy servant who hath turned
towards Thee, hath fixed his gaze upon Thee, and clung to the
cord of Thy mercifulness and favor, may be enabled to partake
of the living waters of Thy mercy and grace. Cause him, then,
to ascend unto the heights to which he aspireth, and withhold
him not from that which Thou dost possess. Thou art, verily, the
Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful (PM 122–124).
Here follows the commentary sentence by sentence, interrupted by
personal reflections and theological comments.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
All-praise be to Thee, O Lord, my God!
Personal Reflection
This prayer starts with an invocation of God in which the approach
to God is a personal and direct address: “O Lord, my God.” This is a
conventional way of addressing God, common to the religions of the
past. There is no doubt expressed to whom this prayer is directed, no
doubt that it articulates the dependent existence of the supplicant and
no doubt that all praise and glory belongs to Him, who is addressed
in this first sentence as the Lord of life, the God of creation. After
this conventional introduction that places the prayer in the spiritual
sphere of openness to God, we come to the surprising claim that the
believer, who comes to His Lord, does not know how to do what he
is attempting to do.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
I know not how to sing Thy praise, how to describe Thy glory,
how to call upon Thy Name.
Personal Reflection
This sentence contains the main topic of the first part of the prayer.
The three basic affirmations that are included in prayers of all religions

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
are mentioned and we are asked to admit that we “know not” how to
articulate them. In other words, we do not know how to pray, how to
raise our voice to God and sing His praise, how to give Him Glory and
even how to call His Name. It is as if we do not know any more how to
say even the Lord’s Prayer to “Our Father in Heaven.” This is the first
statement and the most ominous declaration of this prayer, i.e. to have
to admit that we “know not” how to pray.
It appears that after the suppliant has addressed God in the conven-
tional manner of all religions, he stops and confesses an impotence
and inability to go farther. I “know not,” I am incapable, I am helpless
and I am not even able to ask for help to pray. “I know not how to call
upon Thy Name.”
One of the roots of modern atheism is this “not knowing,” this
agnosticism, this helplessness in the face of modern science and all
the tragedies, evils and catastrophes of life. We do not know any
more how to call to God, how to pray to Him and how to mention
His Name. This is illustrated by a Jewish friend who lost her faith
when her entire family perished in Nazi concentration camps. Even
though she calls herself agnostic, she has even stated that she wished
she could believe. In other words, she is one of those who no longer
know how to call God’s name.
Another reason why we “know not to pray” is modern science. The
knowledge of science has removed the naïve childlike ability to
trust and believe in God, to accept Our Father in Heaven and to
give Him glory and honor. We do not know any more to whom to
direct our prayer; the God of the old religions has ceased to exist for
many of us. Even many apparently religious people are really agnos-
tics in the sense that they do not know any more how to address the
God in Whom they claim to believe. Instead, they may cling to the
God of their childhood, when they heard the story of Moses and

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
of Jesus, Mohammed, or the Buddha and when they still knew to
Whom to pray.
Yet, when we go to work, when we live the modern life with all its
technology and electronic equipment, do we really believe in God and
pray to him in that old fashioned way? Can we? Do we thank Him for
all the modern technological achievements, or is He no longer in the
picture of our practical life.
Hence, it is not only the unbeliever, who was raised in atheistic Rus-
sia or China, it is not only the capitalist, whose God is money—it is
everybody, who “knows not” how to praise God and sing His glory.
The world today has lost its religious aura. God has been removed
from this world and He seems to have lost out.4 Growing numbers of
people wonder “who needs Him anyway?’
Bahá’u’lláh identifies the place where the paths of believers and non-
believers part: the “dwellers of the city of self… adorning their heads
and their bodies with the emblem of knowledge, have proudly rejected
Thee and turned away from Thy beauty. (PM 77). It is clear that it
is not the difficulty to know God, not the honest question about
God’s existence that has been raised in the last centuries, which
Bahá’u’lláh deplores, rather, it is the selfishness of man, the self cen-
teredness of the “dwellers of the city of self” that creates this rejection
of God’s message. Additionally, it is the pride in their knowledge
that prevents them from recognizing the truth of creation and turn
away from Him.
To confess with Bahá’u’lláh in a prayer to God that we know not how
to pray is the total opposite from the modern man who, in all his
knowledge, proudly claims, yes, we do know that there is no God and
we can prove scientifically that God does not exist.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
While the acceptance of God’s plan for man was always a challenge
and was always open to rejection, now it is not only the message that
is questioned, it is the One who sends the message, Whose existence
is questioned. Is there a God or not is the question of our time. The
two thousand year quest of Christianity to define God and religion
and the numerous different ways of doing so has created this great
insecurity about God’s existence. Forcefully and belligerently pit-
ting one way of defending religion against another has led to war
and discord among the believers of the Messenger of love, and unity.
Theological Comment: Modern Atheism
Karl Marx (1818–1883), the most influential of modern atheists,
was not unfamiliar with the religious and philosophical issues of his
time. His formulation of the question of God’s existence for the 19th
Century, assumed the authority of science and philosophy. It found
dedicated believers all over the world, in spite of the fact that all his
“scientific” predictions failed to materialize. In his early writings in
1844, Karl Marx made the following fundamental announcement:
“The foundation of irreligious criticism is this: man makes religion,
religion does not make man.”5 Man makes God, not God makes man.
Teilhard de Chardin’s answers to this question present an unexpected
view from which the solution needs to come. He understands Marx’s
point about man making God but answers it rather ingeniously
through his new understanding of evolution and creation. Teilhard
states “Properly speaking, God does not make: He makes things
make themselves”6
One could follow Marx’s statement about man making God to its
logical conclusion and say that the problem is exactly this belief that
“Man makes religion”, because any man-made religion is restricting
the conception of God as Bahá'u'lláh revealed:

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Some, deluded by their idle fancies, have conceived all created
things as associates and partners of God, and imagined them-
selves to be the exponents of His unity. By Him Who is the one
true God! Such men have been, and will continue to remain, the
victims of blind imitation, and are to be numbered with them that
have restricted and limited the conception of God (GWB 166).
This verse clearly states that any attempt to draw God down into
the world, which happens in pantheism and in all attempts to try
“to know God” in theism, leads consequently to atheism, because it
restricts and limits the conception of God.
Marx’s statements were not new but followed the tradition of the
French Enlightenment7 and of the German Hegelian philosophical
school of thought.8 This atheistic and irreligious ideology in Com-
munism and in a similar attempt in National Socialism led to all
the horrendous consequences of a world without or against God,
and caused one tenth of humankind to perish in wars, persecution,
torture and terror. The numbers of people killed, starved or worked
to death, or condemned to die during the last century is about 100
million.9 The defenders of atheism never seem to even consider this
historical fact.
Modern atheism has been called postulatory,10 indicating that the non-
existence of God has to be postulated in order to preserve the dignity
of the human condition and the freedom of man. Karl Marx intended
to free man from the shackles of the religion and politics of his time
and anticipated a time in the future when the “free development of
each is the condition for the free development of all”.11 None of these
developments ever took place where Marx’s ideology was applied.
During the last two thousand years of Christianity, the existence of
God was never really in question, even though our understanding
of God has changed over time. In her book, “The History of God”,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Karen Armstrong describes the development of the understanding of
God in the Jewish, Christian, and Islamic traditions. Her last chapter
“Does God have a Future?” ends with the statement: “Human beings
cannot endure emptiness and desolation; they will fill the vacuum by
creating a new focus of meaning. The idols of fundamentalism are not
good substitutes for God; if we are to create a vibrant new faith for
the twenty-first century, we should, perhaps, ponder the history of
God for some lessons and warnings.”12
In spite of her theologically and historically excellent analysis and
her well-founded warnings about the history of religion, Karen Arm-
strong—in this writer’s opinion—misses the point here. Human
beings cannot fill the vacuum, especially after they declared the
death of God and they cannot re-create a new faith. Her statement
is yet another expression of a modern woman, who wishes she could
believe, but who “knows not how.”
When teaching Bahá’u’lláh’s message, we need to be cognizant of the
fact that knowing God in the old way does not create a requirement
for the acceptance of the Faith. It is rather the presumptuous attitude
that we could and do know, that it is up to the human selfish intellect
to decide whether God exists, which makes the acceptance of God’s
message for our time so difficult for so many. Re-reading Bahá’u’lláh’s
description of the true seeker might help us to understand the require-
ments of teaching and seeking. There the seeker is admonished that
“he must, before all else, cleanse his heart, which is the seat of the revela-
tion of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring dust of all acquired
knowledge” (GWB 246 passim).13 If we understand our Faith correctly,
it should be no more difficult to teach an atheist or agnostic, than an
adherent of the previous religions and their Messengers. The reason is
clear: we are not arguing about God per se, but about deficient human
conceptions of God.

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Theological Comment: Apophatic Theology
It seems that any attempt “to know God” in human terms will nec-
essarily conclude with a picture of God that reasonable thinking
people today find unacceptable. That is the meaning of the famous
declaration of Nietzsche about the death of God, i.e., any God, we
could ever know is dead, we have killed this God.
It needs to be noted here that not-knowing God, that the fact we
cannot know who God is has a long tradition in theology and is
described under the term Apophatic Theology. Stephen Lambden in
his paper “The Background and Centrality of Apophatic Theology in
Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture” states:
The following paper will attempt to trace aspects of the his-
tory of the theological position of the incomprehensibility-
unknowability of God in past major Abrahamic religions
and to highlight its importance and significance for contem-
porary Bahá’ís. 14
After describing the history of this concept in Jewish, Christian
and Islamic religion (especially as expressed in the Shiite tradition),
Lambden describes how this Apophatic Theology pervades all of
Bahá’í Scripture. God cannot be known by His creatures, all what
we know is the Revelation given us through His messengers, the
Manifestations. Lambden’s conclusion is:
Apophasis as unknowing can be experienced by the Bahá’í
who seeks the God whose door is ever closed though ever
open. Through the Manifestation of God the door to divine
knowledge is eternally open. Yet mystical bewilderment
before the Divine is an experience of unknowing: “To merit
the madness of love, man must abound in sanity”. To approach

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
the All-Knowing human beings must be full of the ecstasy of
unknowing; spiritual excitement before the Ultimate Deity.
Bahá’u’lláh in this prayer will lead to the understanding that the
confession of not-knowing is the presupposition of knowing God and
praising him. It is God Who in his mercy and through His manifes-
tations has opened up the way for humans to praise God, as will be
shown in the commentary below.
In this context, it is necessary to ask, “What is the relationship
between modern atheism and apophatic theology?” In other words
what is the difference between apophatic theology and postulatory
atheism, which thinks it has negated God’s existence in order to
allow man to be free and himself? What is the distinction between
postulatory atheism and an apophatic theology which teaches that
man knows not how to praise God and how to describe God’s glory
and how to call upon God? Deciding between the two appears to be
the same decision which is described in the book of Genesis when
the serpent told Eve that in not serving God and not following His
commands, man shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.
And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes
shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.
(Genesis 3:4–5)
In fact, Adam and Eve did die, did lose the paradise and were expelled
into a life that ends in death. Translating this primitive picture into
our time, one could say that the same happened during the last cen-
tury; atheism, instead of making man free and bringing the paradise-
like new changes to earth, brought nothing but death, war and misery
encompassing most of this earth. The new man, as postulated by
Marx, who had celebrated the death of God and had declared the
end of religion, is declaring a new “religion of atheism”—better called

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
“irreligion,”—yet, he did not become as gods, did not know all (good
and evil), but ended up in war and destruction of human life and
civilization. As Bahá’u’lláh stated: the dust of irreligion hath enwrapped
all men (SLH 67). His interpreter Shoghi Effendi has explicated this,
describing state atheism as irreligion in the last century:
From Soviet Russia a definitely anti-religious Communism
is pushing west into Europe and America, East into Persia,
India, China and Japan. It is an economic theory, definitely
harnessed to disbelief in God. It is a religious irreligion…
(WOB 1181)
And he has described it as a worldwide phenomenon, which is affecting
the Western world as well, weakening the moral fiber of civilization
even today:
In these days when the forces of irreligion are weakening the
moral fiber, and undermining the foundations of individual
morality, the obligation of chastity and holiness must claim
an increasing share of the attention of the American believers,
both in their individual capacities and as the responsible cus-
todians of the interests of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. (ADJ 29)
It is the not-knowing of God that opens up the real knowledge of
God, it is the apophatic theology, the theology that admits that we
cannot know God, and it is the conviction that we have to give up all
attempts to know God that is the presupposition of any real know-
ing of God. This attitude of impotence and accepted limitation, this
acceptance of being created, is required, before we can know God.
This was expressed by the Báb in these words:
I have known Thee by Thy making known unto me that Thou
art unknowable to anyone save Thyself. (SWB196)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
In the tradition of apophatic theology, a similar statement was made
in the last century by the Jewish philosopher Franz Rosenzweig
(1886–1929), who stated
Of God we know nothing. Yet, this Not-Knowing is the
Not-Knowing of God, as such, this is the beginning of our
Knowing of Him.15
In the biblical thinking, which is not concerned about the essence
of God, but is mainly talking about God’s wisdom for this world,
the fact that we cannot know God was expressed in terms of God’s
providence for man. Paul in Romans 11:33–35 expressed this in
these words:
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of
God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past
finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who
hath been his counsellor?
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
If I call upon Thee by Thy Name, the All-Possessing, I am com-
pelled to recognize that He Who holdeth in His hand the imme-
diate destinies of all created things is but a vassal dependent
upon Thee, and is the creation of but a word proceeding from
Thy mouth
Personal Reflection
At the first reading of that prayer, I was shocked; I could not believe
it and tried to interpret the following statement in any other pos-
sible way. Yet, what is said here leaves no doubt: this “not knowing” is
attributed to all humans, even to the Manifestations of God.
This is the situation of the world today, where at least one third of
humankind has been educated to ridicule and reject the mere idea

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
of God. The other two thirds have a tainted picture of what religion
is. Bahá’u’lláh in this prayer does not apologize for this situation or
helplessly deplore it, nor does He try to go back to the old security
of knowing. He does not even try to dispute it; on the contrary, He
carries the “not knowing,” of which He speaks much farther and
gives it its proper place in the understanding of God. Furthermore,
He includes Himself in this “not knowing.” He acknowledges this
fact of “not knowing.” His understanding of God, which culminates
in His and everybody else’s “not knowing” becomes a guiding light
for modern man and the basis of a theology of the future.
Here Bahá’u’lláh speaks not only of you and of me, of women and
man, of believers and unbelievers. Instead, he explicitly speaks of
Himself; of Him, “Who holdeth in His hand the immediate destinies of
all created things.16” Without any doubt, He includes in this “I know
not” the Manifestations of God.
Theological Comment: Manifestation of God
In these words, Bahá’u’lláh describes the Manifestation as “the cre-
ation of but a word proceeding from Thy mouth.” With this statement,
He reminds us of the Prolog to the Gospel of John (1:1–3) speaking
about Christ as the Word of God, “In the beginning was the Word, and
the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning
with God. All things were made through Him and without Him nothing
was made that was made.”
What the gospel describes in a static and historical way as happening
“in the beginning,” Bahá’u’lláh brings into the present and affirms that
the Manifestation holds the immediate destiny of all created things
in His hand: Here and now and in reality17. Given this divine power,
one would expect that the Manifestations at least know God; that
They for sure know how to sing His praise, describe His glory, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
call to Him upon His Name. Yet, Bahá’u’lláh clearly states that they
are nothing but dependent vassals of God and created by His word.
Even they participate in the “know-not” of all creation. That fact alone
should give us an indication that this not-knowing is not merely a rhe-
torical phrase but an ontological statement, a statement that tells us
something about the reality of being, i.e., of all created being.
Before God, even the Manifestation is nothing in itself, and knows
nothing, except the Will of God. This understanding explains much
better the agony of Christ before His crucifixion (Mathew: 36–42)
than the theory of the Trinity.18 On the other hand, in relation to
humankind, the Manifestation holds the immediate destiny of all
created things in His hand.19 This view of God puts God at two
removes from us. Looking at the Manifestation of God—Who is
the destiny of the world—we have to recognize that God is abso-
lutely supreme above all created things and that there is no path of
understanding and knowing that leads from our created existence
to Him. Especially the attempts by “dwellers of the city of self” (PM
77) cannot ever reach this height and even the faithful and believers
in the message from God have first to confess that they “know not”,
before the understanding of God can become open to them. The
only way to God is in the other direction, from God to humanity
through the Manifestation.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
And if I proclaim Thee by the name of Him Who is the All-Com-
pelling, I readily discover that He is but a suppliant fallen upon
the dust, awe-stricken by Thy dreadful might, Thy sovereignty
and power.
Personal Reflection
Therefore, Bahá’u’lláh applies the same principle of I-know-not to
every human being, and even to the Divine Messenger, Who, like

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
us, is but a suppliant, a beggar, in the dust and awe-stricken by God’s
might, sovereignty and power. Again, it is not the knowing, the theol-
ogy, the science of the Divine, or any other sciences that allows access
to God, because we “know not.”
This fact has become clear during the last centuries. The more the
familiar picture of the Father in Heaven faded away in the light
of modern science; the more the concept of God became distant.
Consequently, thinking people lost their faith in such a God. The
Churches did not make this process easier. Their insistence in the
old understanding and their condemnation of science and modern
thought pushed may people into the denial of God20.
What Bahá’u’lláh asserts in this prayer is the opposite. God, in His
eyes is not becoming smaller and fading away, rather He becomes the
All-Compelling, to Whom a suppliant falls in the dust. Therefore,
the know-not statement here is not a statement about God, but a
statement about the futile human effort to understand God, to grasp
the essence of God, or as one could say, to make a God in the image
of man. It is the issue of idolatry and only the acknowledgment of
God as the total Otherness and unknowable Essence can save man
from at first making his own God and then, in an attempt of being
honest, throwing this graven image out and proclaiming the death of
God. This process is the topic in A. N. Wilson’s book: God’s Funeral,
who describes the history of European atheism and modernism from
Hume to Pius XI, quoting on the last page of his book Tyrrell, who
stated in 1906: “One has to pass through atheism to faith; the old
God must be pulverized and forgotten before the new can reveal
himself to us.”21.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Theological Comment: Theodicy
The question of the justification of the physical and moral evil in the
creation of a good God must be raised here. 22 This question, why evil
exists in the world cannot be solved with a God, who is made in the
image of man in an unchanging world. The belief in the “Father in
Heaven”, which was easily understandable two thousand years ago,
cannot simply be ‘translated’ into our modern world23. How can we
explain physical and especially moral evil, where the innocent are
tortured, where children are abused, or die of painful diseases?
The first answer is the answer of Job. It is not for us to understand and
judge: God, the All-Compelling, is greater than our imagination, so
how can we understand His plans and the place of evil in the world.
Yet, this answer is not satisfactory for modern reasoning. Another,
more contemporary understanding of this question is to see God as
the God of Evolution.24 Only this view of the world as it really has
evolved will make us somehow understand, what the meaning of evil
in the world might be.
Evil is the price of evolution and the rebellion against this process
played out in the progression of man and the world. The final answer,
given to us, is the answer of the cross, of the suffering of the Messen-
gers send by God, indicating that the progressive revelation of God
does lead to the ever-advancing civilization, but not without pain and
suffering. We need to understand that the shadow of this progress is
the evil, which is part of this developing, progressive world. This is
expressed in another prayer of Bahá'u'lláh:
Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy wisdom,
and every ordeal the vehicle of Thy providence, no one would
have dared oppose us, though the powers of earth and heaven
were to be leagued against us (PM 14)

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
And if I attempt to describe Thee by glorifying the oneness of
Thy Being, I soon realize that such a conception is but a notion
which mine own fancy hath woven, and that Thou hast ever
been immeasurably exalted above the vain imaginations which
the hearts of men have devised.
Personal Reflection
Here Bahá’u’lláh tells us that even the highest attributes we can give
God are not reaching into His inaccessible essence. Even if we call
God the One and we praise the Unity of God, we are only talking
about a human concept, we only attempt to attribute to God some-
thing of our world; we again make our own God. As legitimate as this
expression might seem, and as frequently as it is used in the Bahá’í
Writings, seen in this context of human knowing, Bahá’u’lláh calls it
a vain imagination designed in the hearts of man. We cannot know,
we cannot praise, and we cannot call to God because we only put our
imagination to work whenever we pretend to know to whom we speak.
What is required of the true seeker (GWB 264–265) is the aban-
donment of all his knowledge and even his wish to know and letting
himself fall into the hands of God. This is the mystical aspect of
faith and prayer, which, as of yet, we Bahá’ís in America have hardly
touched in our devotions. To accept that even the highest expres-
sion we can make about God is nothing but a vain imagination, is
difficult; it requires a detachment and purity of heart that is not
easily acquired or reached fully in this world. It is with a sense of
loss of our own pride in our thinking and knowing, it is with a sense
of an all-embracing dedication that we can only come near to this
aspiration of finding God. The purity of heart and of life, as Shoghi
Effendi (ADJ 46–55) has stressed, is a precondition of recognizing
this reality. The deepest expression of this truth is expressed in the
mystical writings of Bahá’u’lláh, where he speaks of the lover seeking
the beloved everywhere, even in the dust:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
One must judge of search by the standard of the Majnun of Love.
It is related that one day they came upon Majnun sifting the
dust, and his tears flowing down. They said, “What doest thou?”
He said, “I seek for Layli.” They cried, “Alas for thee! Layli is of
pure spirit, and thou seekest her in the dust!” He said, “I seek
her everywhere; haply somewhere I shall find her.”
Yea, although to the wise it be shameful to seek the Lord of
Lords in the dust, yet this betokeneth intense ardor in searching.
“Whoso seeketh out a thing with zeal shall find it.”
The true seeker hunteth naught but the object of his quest, and
the lover hath no desire save union with his beloved. Nor shall the
seeker reach his goal unless he sacrifice all things (SVFV 6–8).
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
The glory of Thy might beareth me witness!
Personal Reflection
Bahá’u’lláh returns to the beginning in this new paragraph of the
prayer. While there, He addresses God by giving Him glory and
praise; he calls on God to witness the fact that we know not and can
never know.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Whoso claimeth to have known Thee hath, by virtue of such a
claim, testified to his own ignorance; and whoso believeth him-
self to have attained unto Thee, all the atoms of the earth would
attest his powerlessness and proclaim his failure.
Personal Reflection
There is no claim to know God. What was stated before is reiterated
from a different point of view. Before the inability and helplessness,

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
the nothingness of the creature in front of God was expressed in the
prayer; now the pride of man who claims to know is declared as total
ignorance. Again, there is no way to attain God, to reach to Him, to
build an intellectual tower of Babel high enough to reach to God.
The whole creation will attest the failure of such an attempt. Any
attempt to do so, to build a society based on atheism will lead to
destruction and terrorism, because of it being contrary to human
nature and contrary to reality. All the atoms of the earth indicate
that even human sciences dealing with the atoms of the world cannot
attain knowledge of God. They can indicate, and this is remarkable,
that the old picture of God as a static, defined and definable entity
is wrong, and cannot be sustained25. They only can open some new
venues to approach God through His Messengers.
Theological Comment: Hierarchical Religions
When praying to God, when approaching Him, there is never a
human claim; there is never an institution that has a special privilege,
a special power in the sight of God. Bahá’u’lláh’s abolition of priest-
hood and church is clearly implied in this statement. Nobody, not
even the Manifestation can claim to know God. Therefore, nobody
can speak in the name of God, except He, Who speaks the “Word of
God” as revealed to Him.
The meaning of the Revelation and of the Manifestations of God is
expressed in the Bahá’í Writings, but it is not easy to understand it
fully. We might recall that Jesus said (John 14:10): “The words that
I speak to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who
dwells in me does the works.” The messages of all the Manifestations
must be understood this way; they speak not from their human
nature and knowledge, no matter how stainless and perfect their
humanity is. They are only a conduit bringing the message from God;
they are the mirrors of God’s Spirit. They never claim to have power

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
or authority over God’s message or to be able to reach God through
their human knowledge.26
At this point the prayer changes without starting a new section. The
meaning of this continuity of the prayer might help us to understand
that there is no separation between the “not-knowing of God” and
between the “Mercy of God,” that one requires the other, that it is
the mercy of God giving us permission to pray to God, as long as we
accept the “not-knowing of God.” Bahá’u’lláh does not talk about the
human suppliant. Rather, He talks about God and His mercy, which
allows us to pray, even if we know not how to do it. Yet, it is clear that
this understanding was there from the beginning of the prayer allow-
ing us to pray with Bahá'u'lláh, to speak His words of prayer while
He gives us the confidence to confess our impotence.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Thou hast, however, by virtue of Thy mercy that hath surpassed
the kingdoms of earth and heaven, deigned to accept from Thy
servants the laud and honor they pay to Thine own exalted
Self, and hast bidden them celebrate Thy glory, that the ensigns
of Thy guidance may be unfurled in Thy cities and the tokens
of Thy mercy be spread abroad among Thy nations, and that
each and all may be enabled to attain unto that which Thou
hast destined for them by Thy decree, and ordained unto them
through Thine irrevocable will and purpose.
Personal Reflection
Bahá’u’lláh, in this long sentence seems to express two thoughts. The
first answers the question of how can we pray if we do not know how,
the other concerns what the gift of prayer means to mankind.
Why and how can we pray, when we do not know God, cannot know
God and cannot praise him? The answer is clear and simple: by vir-
tue of God’s mercy alone can we pray. God’s mercy is additionally

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
described in its absolute surpassing character. God’s mercy not only
surpasses our understanding, it surpasses the kingdoms of earth and
heaven, i.e. the whole universe, known and unknown. No matter what
science will reveal about heaven and earth, no matter what human
progress and evolution will be in the future, God’s mercy surpasses it.
This is another statement about the unknowable essence of God,
of the absolute impossibility of man, of all men, to know God. Yet,
God’s mercy is above and beyond this impossibility and opens up for
man the possibility to pray to him. God has ordered humankind to
celebrate His glory. God has deigned to accept man’s efforts to laud
and honor His exalted self. The movement comes from God Who
extends to man the possibility of paying honor to His exalted self.
God gives man the power of reason to seek to know Him.
What does that fact mean to humankind? Bahá’u’lláh describes the
consequences in beautiful imagery encompassing the whole world.
Ensigns, colorful banners of joy and guidance will be unfurled in
the cities and the tokens of Thy mercy will be spread abroad among
Thy nations. All men will be able to attain to what God has decreed
for them. This is a prayer anticipating the Kingdom of God, like the
Lord’s Prayer “Thy Kingdom come” (Matthew 6:10).
Theological Comment: Predestination and Freedom
This issue raises the old question of predestination as it was debated
by Christian theologians mainly since the reformation. The freedom
of man, on the one hand, and the foreknowledge, or pre-destining
of man’s fate by God is the issue of this theological debate. How
can God know the individual fate of man and how can man freely
decide his fate given this absolute foreknowledge of God? How can
man be called free to pray, when he is totally dependent on God in
doing so? The solution, which transcends logic, is in the fact that the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
freedom of man is a gift of God’s mercy, something that surpasses
our understanding and is therefore included in His foreknowledge.
Actually, the word foreknowledge is erroneous in itself because
there is no “before” or “after” in God; time is part of creation only.
In the final analysis, we do not know how, we only know that God’s
mercy allows it. The old debate about predestination could only arise,
because theologians thought they could know God and could define
His actions according to human logic and according to the time con-
straint to which all creation is subject.
In the Bahá’í Faith this thinking is reversed. Bahá’u’lláh clearly
affirms in the beginning of the prayer that we know not, that we
cannot know and that even the Manifestations of God do not know
God. We cannot attain to the knowledge of God at all, because God
is much more exalted and removed from human speculation than
ever thought before, and this is what it means to laud and honor Him
rather than constructing a God of superstition and imagination. On
the other hand, we believe that He is closely and intimately related to
humankind, through His mercy, and therefore He is called “the most
hidden of the hidden and the most manifest of the manifest.” (PM 248)
The fact that for each and all, the future is destined by God’s decree
and has been ordained through His irrevocable will and purpose
does not mean that man is not free in his decisions, it only means,
that man’s freedom does not limit God because it is a gift of God’s
mercy, which surpasses any limitation by time because time is a fact
of creation and cannot be used when talking about God.
Therefore, considering man’s impotence in the face of the knowledge
of God, Bahá’u’lláh prays in the next section to God to open His
beauty to the seeking faithful and to give access to the bounty of
His mercy.

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Having testified, therefore, unto mine own impotence and the
impotence of Thy servants, I beseech Thee, by the brightness of
the light of Thy beauty, not to refuse Thy creatures attainment
to the shores of Thy most holy ocean.
Personal Reflection
Here Bahá’u’lláh revisits the statement of man’s impotence and again
clearly includes all of mankind in this statement, himself and all Thy
servants. He continues to ask for God’s mercy, described as God’s
beauty, brightness and light. This is a poetical description of what
could metaphysically be described as the opening of God to man.
Light and beauty are the attributes that open all beings to sight and
delight, to human enjoyment and knowing. If we can see the light and
the beauty of anything, we can enjoy and understand it. This is true
for a work of art, for the beauty of a person, and, for the enjoyment
of life and of the whole world. Even the light of understanding that
science brings is included here.27 The modern quest of science to see,
to know, and to understand this world becomes worship, like every
work performed in the service of humanity. Here, it is applied to God,
Whom we cannot know, but Who gives us the gift of light and beauty
emanating from Him through his Messengers. This light, which is
the origin of all understanding, is also implanted in all beings of this
world, especially in man.
Another image is brought to our attention. The immensity and inex-
haustibility of the Revelation is compared with the ocean, which
confronts the seeker so he prays to be able to attain to its shores.
This leaves the infinite depth and expanse of the ocean for the future
evolution of the human soul through eternity. The exploration of
the shores of this ocean will promote the highest hopes for man-
kind: “All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization.”(GWB 215)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
We are here now at the juncture, where the impotence confessed to
above becomes the power to attain to the light and the beauty of God
in our life and in this world. In many prayers, Bahá’u’lláh expresses
the joy and fulfillment that this attainment can give. Paradoxically,
all that was acknowledged before as unattainable now becomes the
most attainable, becomes the essence of the life of the believer. Being
detached from all knowledge leads to the knowing on a deeper level,
which surpasses all other knowledge. God the most hidden becomes
the most manifest.
Consider this passage of another prayer of Bahá’u’lláh:
I am well aware, O my Lord, that I have been so carried away
by the clear tokens of Thy loving-kindness, and so completely
inebriated with the wine of Thine utterance, that whatever I
behold I readily discover that it maketh Thee known unto me,
and it remindeth me of Thy signs, and of Thy tokens, and of
Thy testimonies.
By Thy glory! Every time I lift up mine eyes unto Thy heaven, I
call to mind Thy highness and Thy loftiness, and Thine incom-
parable glory and greatness; and every time I turn my gaze to
Thine earth, I am made to recognize the evidences of Thy power
and the tokens of Thy bounty. And when I behold the sea, I find
that it speaketh to me of Thy majesty, and of the potency of Thy
might, and of Thy sovereignty and Thy grandeur. And at what-
ever time I contemplate the mountains, I am led to discover the
ensigns of Thy victory and the standards of Thine omnipotence.
I swear by Thy might, O Thou in Whose grasp are the reins of
all mankind, and the destinies of the nations! I am so inflamed
by my love for Thee, and so inebriated with the wine of Thy one-
ness, that I can hear from the whisper of the winds the sound of
Thy glorification and praise, and can recognize in the murmur

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
of the waters the voice that proclaimeth Thy virtues and Thine
attributes, and can apprehend from the rustling of the leaves the
mysteries that have been irrevocably ordained by Thee in Thy
realm. (PM 271–272)
Theological Comment: Human Progress—
Progressive Theology
Comparing the human learning process and the divine learning
process described in this prayer, with those of prayer beginning
“I-know-not” reveals two aspects. The first has to do with the way
learning happens; the other concerns how we know things. The
latter raises epistemological questions about knowing. There is one
aspect that is usually not considered when learning is considered.
If we look at the diagram below we find the words “ability” and “per-
mission” as the first steps from not knowing to knowing. Certainly
we need to be able to know, but do we need permission to know?
While this is not always true, in important issues we cannot learn
and know something, unless we have the permission to learn it. Even
a teacher will tell her students, you are not ready for knowing this
or that, you have to first get my permission and you will get it when
you are ready. Obviously, we are not to know many things of a pri-
vate nature about another person unless we get the permission of
the person. We are not allowed to know about specific government
secrets, unless we get the permission to learn about it and to know
it. The same is true and even more important when we speak of the
knowledge of God. We do not only have to have God’s permission to
know, we need His help and assistance in order to know. God gives
us the ability and the permission to know. And that is expressed in
this prayer with the statements on the right side below, which are all
quoted from the prayer.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
We are asked to pray to God, “that each and all may be enabled to attain
unto that which Thou hast destined for them by Thy decree, and ordained
unto them through Thine irrevocable will and purpose.” (PM 123) God’s
irrevocable will and purpose enables us to do, what we “know-not’ to
do, such as “how to sing Thy praise, how to describe Thy glory, how to call
upon Thy Name.” (PM 123)
The instructions are given and we are drawn “through the Divine sweet-
ness of Thy melodies, towards the throne of Thy glory and the seat of
Thine eternal holiness.” (PM 123) Even the practice of what we learned
is ultimately God’s work: He has to draw us to do what gets us closer
to Him, so everybody can “ascend unto the heights to which he aspireth.”
The Human Learning
Process
The Divine Learning Process
1.
Not knowing
2.
Ability
3.
Permission
4.
Instruction
5.
Practice
6.	 “I know not how to…”
7.	 “that all may be enabled…
8.	 ” by Thy decree and… will…
9.	 “Divine sweetness of Thy melodies”
10.	 “Cause him, then, to ascend unto
the heights to which he aspireth…”
This description of the learning process describes the need to
recognize that it is God, in His mercy, Who enables us and gives
us permission to know Him. What is it in the human condition
that enables us to accept this ability and permission given by God?
With this question we approach the field of epistemology, the field
of “how do we know?”
There are at least three ways of knowing, Reason, Intuition and
Vision (Anschauung). The Catholic theologian Romano Guardini
has defined these three ways in his book on the oppositeness of real-
ity, which he calls “Gegensatz.” 28 In this description the three ways of
knowing are described as Rational, Transrational and Superrational.

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
We can refer these three ways of knowing to the three instruments
used by the mind: the left hemisphere of the brain corresponds to
the rational, the right to the transrational way of knowing i.e. to
intuition. The third way of knowing is best attributed to the heart,
bringing unity and vision into the area of knowing.29 The rational
is the abstract-logical way of thinking. What Guardini calls Tran-
srational is the way of knowing the individual-in-the-concrete, as a
distinct living being. These two ways are in opposition, are a “Gegen-
satz” i.e., they are opposite, yet have something in common, and,
therefore cannot exist without each other.
Whenever we think about an abstract concept, the concrete reality
which it refers to must—at least to some degree—be included in
the same thought. The same is true when we consider the individual.
We always have to include in this thought the abstract and general
meaning. For example, we cannot think about humanness, without
knowing and including in this thought the individual humans we
know; whenever we think about a human being we must include all
that generally belongs to humanness in this thought, as well. Only a
sociopath can treat humans like things, using and abusing them, with-
out considering or caring about the specific human quality of every
human being. This is the condition of the Gegensatz, of the opposite,
which is pervasive in all thinking about living concrete reality.
The third way of knowing is called Superrational (Über-rational). It
includes the first two modes of knowing and exists in the tension of
this Gegensatz and it is described by Guardini in the following way
(translated by this writer):
To understand the core of the living reality and to approach
its mystery is not a nebulous imagination, or a mysterious
experience; it rather takes vision (Anschauung), which is pos-
sible only in tension, and in respect of the mystery requiring
discipline and self-control.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Real vision is not a mysterious experience, even though it approaches
the mystery of reality, it includes the tension between reason and
intuition, and this consideration is important, it requires discipline
and self-control. In other words, it is not easy and requires efforts in
the area of ethics.
Bahá’u’lláh mentions the same qualities when talking about his Rev-
elation and how to approach its sublime Vision:
Were the breezes of Revelation to seize thee, thou wouldst flee
the world, and turn unto the Kingdom, and wouldst expend all
thou possessest, that thou mayest draw nigh unto this sublime
Vision.” (ESW 56)
While Guardini talks about discipline and self-control, Bahá’u’lláh
expands that concept and speaks about additionally expending all
thou possessest as demanded by Jesus:
The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from
my youth up: what lack I yet? Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt
be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and
thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.
(Matthew 19:20–21)
To understand this demand, which was unacceptable to the young
man at the time of Jesus, must it not be said that following Christ
required total detachment from all possessions and not necessarily
the selling of all possessions? Does not the statement of Bahá’u’lláh
imply the same detachment? This transcends the concept of Guar-
dini that having this vision requires discipline and self-control. In
any case, vision is not easy, and it is, like all real understanding,
based on the permission and ability given by God, as `Abdu’l-Bahá
interpreted this situation:

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
But the human spirit, unless assisted by the spirit of faith, does
not become acquainted with the divine secrets and the heavenly
realities. (SAQ 208)
Here vision means acquaintance with divine secrets and heavenly
realities, which directs our thoughts to the understanding of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
To understand the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, indeed, to understand
any Revelation, this vision is required and it is a gift of God to the per-
son who is detached from the possessions of this world. Additionally,
to acquire this vision and to understand the Revelation is a process,
which never ends, individually and even collectively, until the next
Manifestation brings a renewed vision.
Another image is presented in the next sentence of the prayer:
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Draw them, then, O my God, through the Divine sweetness of
Thy melodies, towards the throne of Thy glory and the seat of
Thine eternal holiness.
Personal Reflection
The divine sweetness of these melodies will draw mankind towards
the throne of God’s glory and the seat of His eternal holiness. Glory
and holiness are described as sweet melodies and we are reminded
here of the nightingales that play such a role as indicators of divine
love to the believer in the Bahá’í writings. This picture of God as
drawing humanity to Him is used by Bahá’u’lláh for all Dispensa-
tions. The melody of the Divine Messenger is like the song of the
nightingale, the beauty of the rose and the scent of the hyacinth. 30

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Theological Comment: Progressive Revelation
When we pray these words, we are reminded of the mercy of God,
Who sends His messengers, a Krishna, a Buddha, a Moses, a Zoro-
aster, a Jesus, a Muhammad and finally the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh to us,
so we may pray to be drawn to their message, their eternal World of
God. It gives us the understanding that outside the great religions of
the World, as they are revealed through the Messengers of God, our
understanding of the world is not complete. As religion needs the
assistance of science to avert superstition, so science needs the assis-
tance of religion to prevent materialism and all its dire consequences31.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Thou art, verily, the Most Powerful, the Supreme Ruler, the
Great Giver, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Desired.
Personal Reflection
Here the prayer seems to close with an invocation to God Whom
we “know not,” as we prayed before. We are invited to praise and
acknowledge Him with the words of the Messengers of God. What
are the attributes that are invoked here? First, God is described as
the Most Powerful. We can praise God with that name, as long as
we have first testified to our impotence as servants of God. The Most
Powerful is experienced in our lives when we experience the mercy
of God and the fulfillment of all our aspirations in our love to Him.
This experience prevents us from transferring God’s power into the
human situation except through His mercy.
Power is never to be used against another person; not in the name of
“true” religion against “false” religion, not in the name of orthodoxy
and church administration and not in inquisition or excommunica-
tion. No eternal damnation can be invoked merely on the basis of
human power even in a church or religion. Only if we could know
God with our power could we claim this divine right. Not even if

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
we could have attained to Him with our own power and knowledge,
could we claim this right, could we use our power to exercise church
politics and authority. Nothing of that kind is possible after the
revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
The same applies individually. We can and must praise God as the
Most Powerful. Yet, we cannot derive from this knowledge any power
over other human beings. Neither in gossip, nor in suspicion, neither
in politics nor in personal interaction with others, neither in love, nor
in hate can we assume God’s privilege of power. God gives no one this
power over his or her fellow human being.
Theological Comment: Administrative Power
Any power exerted in politics and civil interactions is of a different
sort: it is not personal, but administrative only and it depends on the
needs of society. It never stretches into the area of consciousness, of
thought or religious belief where independent investigation is the rule.
Civil as well as religious societies must exert power to keep themselves
organized and orderly. Civil society must incarcerate or otherwise
make the criminal unable to disturb the peace. Churches and reli-
gious communities must be able to exclude members who deliberately
try to destroy their community. The power is conditioned and should
not be exerted other than by law and in a proper process. That should
eliminate the individual abusing this power of administration.
One of the greatest differences between the Bahá’í Faith and my
previous experiences as a priest in the Catholic Church was the form
of its administration and how modern man has difficulties with the
present regime in the Church. With the best intentions and in the
sincere belief they are following God’s will, the Popes in the Catholic
Church seem to have created more difficulties for the believers than
all the atheistic philosophers and aberrant theologians together.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
This is why many Catholics now abandon the Church or at least
become passive and discouraged. I am not saying that there are no
possible problems of power even in the Bahá’í Faith, but the struc-
ture of the administration and the abolition of priesthood and clergy
will make any aberration temporary and transient. The problem in
the Catholic Church is the fact that this situation is believed to be
unchangeable because it is based on dogma.
The administrative authority of the Bahá’í Faith functions on a dif-
ferent level. It is exerted not by one but by a group of faithful servants
in consultation. It is not given to making new laws and dogmas that
cannot be revised in the future. It is instituted for protection and for
assistance to the individual believer and the Cause. Fortunately, the
Bahá’í administration has not only the guidance of the Spirit and
a functional infallibility, it can, whenever times change, revise its
decisions and provide new guidance in the light of new consultation.
God, the Supreme Ruler, is another title that has to be seen in that
light. Nobody on this earth is a ruler in his own right; there is no
ruler, who rules as the Son of Heaven, as the Chinese emperors used
to be called; there is no ruler in the name of God, as absolute kings
and emperors in Europe used to claim. There is no power in the
name of the leader of a race or class either. The time of dictators and
autocratic rulers is over, even of rulers imposing their power on the
faithful of a specific religion.32
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
The Great Giver, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Desired
Personal Reflection
These three attributes express the mercy of God and man’s need for
this mercy. Since we know not and are helpless without the gift from
God, we praise him as the Great Giver. We exalt Him beyond all

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
limits and declare him as the desire of the whole creation. All religions
of God have expressed this need in their prayers and adorations.
While most human prayers are basically a request to God for his
assistance in this world, this prayer only now turns to ask God a favor.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Grant, then, O my God, that Thy servant who hath turned
towards Thee, hath fixed his gaze upon Thee, and clung to the
cord of Thy mercifulness and favor, may be enabled to partake
of the living waters of Thy mercy and grace.
Personal Reflection
Again, the praying believers are described in their relation to God.
They have turned towards Him and have fixed their gaze upon him,
clinging to the cord of God’s mercy and favor. This movement towards
God is the precondition of any prayer. Only when we assume this
attitude, are we allowed to ask God for a favor. Here is no mention
of knowledge and theology, no attempt to try to attain closeness and
understanding of God’s ways and plans. The description is that of
men or women who are servants and who turn to their master with no
questions and no demands, except for asking God’s mercy.
It is impossible here to elaborate on this openness to God, which
has been required in all dispensations of God. For example, Jesus
required the rich man to leave everything behind and follow him
(Luke 18. 22–23). In the description of the true seeker Bahá’u’lláh
has laid out the qualifications to participate in God’s favors.
The first thing we are taught to ask is for the ability to partake of the
living waters of Thy mercy and grace. What are those living waters
and how does Bahá’u’lláh use this imagery in His writings? The
following is a selection of passages in which the diverse meanings of
“living waters” is presented. There are many more quotes than could

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
be referenced here, but these give an idea of the widespread use of
this phrase.
Living waters of Thy mercy and grace (PM 124)
Living waters of Thy pardon (ESW 6)
Living waters of uprightness and understanding (KA 139)
Living waters of immortality (ESW 38)
Living waters of God’s counsels (ESW 59)
Living waters of acknowledgment (ESW 161)
Living waters of faith (ESW 169)
Living waters of friendliness and charity (GWB 7)
Living waters of truth (PM 197)
`Abdu´l-Bahá describes the “living waters ofthe teachings of God” as the
only means to bring tranquility and peace to the whole world.33 These
are the gifts of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. The fruit of His teaching
and the bounty is promised to every believer. A meditation on these
gifts alone could last a lifetime and is the basis of every prayer to God,
the Great Giver.
There is one more surprise in this prayer—it is the reference to the
highest aspiration of the one, who contemplates this prayer and the
fulfillment of this aspiration.
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Cause him from that which Thou dost possess, then, to ascend
unto the heights to which he aspireth, and withhold him not
from that which Thou dost possess.
Personal Reflection
Here we are encouraged to ask God to cause us to ascend unto the
heights to which we aspire. How can we ask for more? How could

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
we ask for anything better? What else is there to ask for, except ask-
ing for the heights of our aspiration? Therefore, we ask that God not
withhold what He possesses. Obviously, this must be the height of
our aspiration, or it certainly should be.
We need to look back at our personal aspiration and wishes and the
gifts we usually ask in our prayers to God. While it is stated that it
is acceptable to formulate your own prayers, this need to direct our
aspiration towards God, should make us careful. The conclusion is
to rarely pray with one’s own words, and always use the words of the
Manifestations. That way, one at least is sure that the words are right,
and all what has to be done, and this is not easy, is to conform to our
heart’s desire, which should be the Revelation Bahá’u’lláh has given us.
As St. Paul said (1 Corinthians 13:11): “When I was a child, I spoke as
a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a
man, I put away childish things. For now we see in a mirror, but then face
to face.” We can no longer think as children especially about God, we
can no longer speak in our prayer like children; we need to see God in
a more mature fashion because humankind has reached the stage of
maturity, as Bahá’u’lláh stated:
No sooner had mankind attained the stage of maturity, than
the Word revealed to men’s eyes the latent energies with which
it had been endowed—energies which manifested themselves in
the plenitude of their glory when the Ancient Beauty appeared,
in the year sixty, in the person of `Alí-Muḥammad, the Báb.
(GWB 77)
Alternatively, `Abdu´l-Bahá has interpreted the same situation of
humankind, which has matured during the last two thousand years
of Christianity and Islam:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The Cause of Bahá’u’lláh is the same as the Cause of Christ. It
is the same Temple and the same Foundation. Both of these are
spiritual springtimes and seasons of the soul-refreshing awak-
ening and the cause of the renovation of the life of mankind.
The spring of this year is the same as the spring of last year. The
origins and ends are the same. The sun of today is the sun of
yesterday. In the coming of Christ, the divine teachings were
given in accordance with the infancy of the human race. The
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh have the same basic principles, but
are according to the stage of the maturity of the world and the
requirements of this illumined age. (BWF 400)
The maturity of mankind, the new revelation of God, the global tests
and upheavals of the last generations—all of these are included in
the not knowing and yet knowing of God Who is “the most hidden of
the hidden and the most manifest of the manifest.” Do we not all have
to go through this experience of loss of old securities and concepts,
of traditional rituals and customs, of ingrained understandings and
misunderstandings? The Dawn of the new revelation tests us to see
if we have this measure of maturity. It is the quest of a new humanity
in the Kingdom of God.
This promised development of humankind is a slow, spiritual process;
it works its way from person to person and is not a mass movement
which can be covered by the media, measured by government statis-
tics or proclaimed by election outcomes. Yet, its “latent energies” are
transforming the world while we speak and its Divine fecundity can
be observed by anybody who will look and has the eyes to see. As
Bahá’u’lláh has stated at the beginning of His mission: “The universe
is pregnant with these manifold bounties, awaiting the hour when the
effects of Its unseen gifts will be made manifest in this world. (KI 60–61)
This hour of God has come. We can see the influence of the Faith
in the world; we can teach it and live it and we need to be alert to

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
all the signs and events that tell us about it. This appears to be what
Shoghi Effendi intended to say, when fifty years ago a letter writ-
ten on his behalf stated, “The world has—at least the thinking world—
caught up by now with all the great and universal principles enunciated
by Baha’u’llah over 70 years ago, and so of course it does not sound ‘new’
to them. However, we know that the deeper teachings, the capacity of His
projected World Order to re-create society, are new and dynamic. It is
these we must learn to present intelligently and enticingly to such men!”34
It might well be that even the facts of atheism and agnosticism, which
influence so many of our contemporaries are not merely a negative
and deplorable development of history. These historical developments
have certainly caused great pain and destructiveness to humankind,
yet, were also caused by the distortion of religion, at least to some
degree. `Abdu´l-Bahá clearly states: “If religion becomes a cause of dis-
like, hatred and division, it were better to be without it, and to withdraw
from such a religion would be a truly religious act.” (PT 130) Therefore,
we can join Bahá’u’lláh in this prayer and admit that we know not
and thereby learn from him how to pray in a world of unbelievers.
We can do this because we know this world is getting ready for the
Kingdom of God, in spite of all the evidence to the contrary.
The prayer closes with a final Praise to God;
Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Thou art, verily, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful.
Personal Reflection
Again, it is affirmed here that God is verily the Ever-Forgiving. The
errors and sinfulness of humankind can only find forgiveness from
God. We need to pray not only for forgiveness of our transgressions
but also for the forgiveness of the transgressions of this century with
the knowledge that God is the Ever-Forgiving. That must be our
approach to the victims and perpetrators alike, to the people who

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
caused the terror and who suffered from it. They—and we—need
the forgiveness of God.
God is the Most Bountiful who gives freely and makes us free.
Theological Comment: God’s Grace
Let’s consider the last attribute, the Most Bountiful. Not knowing
the original meaning of this word as written by Bahá’u’lláh, we have
to follow the translation, which fortunately is from Shoghi Effendi’s
pen. We know that he used an English Dictionary extensively in his
translations to find the fitting words. So it seems to be legitimate to
look up the word bountiful in the dictionary35 where the following
definitions are given: “1. Full of bounty, liberal in bestowing gifts and
favors; gracious; 2. Abundant, Plentiful.”
This Divine grace here certainly includes all the Gifts we have
described above. Especially the gift of the living waters is meant here,
which `Abdu’l-Bahá calls the “living waters of the teachings of God.”
This includes the supreme and unique gift of freedom to humankind
as well.
Conclusion
With this understanding, I read the last sentence of praise in two
complimentary ways. First, God gives freely and graciously, and what
is more, He gives me the gift of freedom to accept His mercy and to
sing His praise. Knowing that such freedom includes the possibility
to refuse to obey God or even work against Him, we learn as well,
that even opposition to God’s will does not limit the providence and
wisdom of God, so that “all abide by His bidding.” (SWB 15) When
it was stated in the beginning, that “I know not how to sing Thy praise,

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
how to describe Thy glory, how to call upon Thy Name”, and when we
accept the truth of this statement, we now can freely accept the gift
of God to know Him and to love Him and to give praise to Him,
because God is the Ever-Forgiving and Most Bountiful, the Most Giv-
ing, giving freedom and choice, giving humankind independence and
self, yet giving the ability to freely choose God, to love Him, and to
accept the infinite bounty of God.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
NOTES
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations. (PM 122) Bahá’í Writings are quoted
according to the accepted abbreviation. In this paper, all quotations from Holy
Scriptures are in italics
Nader Saiedi. Logos and Civilization, Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, University Press of Maryland, 2000, page 295.
Edward T. Oakes, SJ, and David Moss, ed. The Cambridge Companion to Hans Urs
von Balthasar. Cambridge University Press, 2004, page 265. ISBN 0-521-89147-7
Karen Armstrong in her book The Battle for God, (Alfred A. Knopf, New
York, 2000) has described the change in the European civilization during
modern times, especially in the chapter: “Christians, The Brave New World”
(1492–1870), pp 61–97, spanning the time from the Reformation to Darwin,
Hegel and Nietzsche and culminating in the statement of the Death of God.
Karl Marx, “Towards a Critique of Hegel’s Philosophy of Right” in Karl Marx
selected writings. Edited by David McLellan, Oxford University Press, 1977,
page 63.
Teilhard de Chardin. Christianity and Evolution. San Diego, New York, London:
A Harvest Book, Harcourt Brace & Company, 1969 page 28.
Described extensively by Will & Ariel Durant in The age of Voltaire. New York:
MJF Books, 1992, especially in Book V, The Attack upon Christianity 1730–1774.
Wucherer Huldenfeld, Augustinus Karl; J. Figl and S. Mühlberger, Editors,
Welt Phänomen Atheismus, (“World-Phenomenon Atheism”) Basel: Herder, Wien
Freiburg, 1979, especially in the chapter by Max Josef Suda, page 89 and passim.
Stephane Courtois at al. in: The Black Book of Communism, Crimes, Terror,
Repression. Cambridge Massachusetts, London, England: Harvard University
Press, 1999, page 4.

These are the “cold” statistics of the victims of communism:
U.S.S.R
China
Vietnam
North Korea
Cambodia:
20 million deaths
65 million deaths
1 million deaths
2 million deaths
2 million deaths
Eastern Europe
Latin America
Africa
Afghanistan
1 million deaths
150,000 deaths
1.7 million deaths
1.5 million deaths
A.K. Wucherer et al, editors, Welt Phänomen Atheismus, (Worldwide Phenom-
enon Atheism). Vienna, Freiburg, Basel: Herder, 1979, confer the contribution
of A.K. Wucherer, “Phänomen und Bedeutung des gegenwärtigen Atheism”
(Phenomenon and Meaning of present Atheism) p. 35–58.
Karl Marx, The Communist Manifesto, 1848.

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh
Karen Armstrong, A History of God, The 4000-Year Quests of Judaism, Christi-
anity and Islam. New York: Alfred and Knopf, 1994, p. 399.
O My brother! When a true seeker determineth to take the step of search in the path
leading unto the knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all else, cleanse
his heart, which is the seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the
obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the embodiments of
satanic fancy. He must purge his breast, which is the sanctuary of the abiding love
of the Beloved, of every defilement, and sanctify his soul from all that pertaineth to
water and clay, from all shadowy and ephemeral attachments. He must so cleanse
his heart that no remnant of either love or hate may linger therein, lest that love
blindly incline him to error, or that hate repel him away from the truth. (GWB 264).
Stephen N. Lambden,in Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Vol. 8, pp.
37–78. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997. ISBN 0-933770-95-2 (HBk) ISBN
0-933770-96-0 (PBk).
Quoted from Bernard Casper, Das dialogische Denken. Eine Untersuchung der
religionsphilosophischen Bedeutung Franz Rosenzweigs, Ferdinand Ebners und
Martin Bubers. (Dialogical Thinking, an Investigation about the Importance in
the Philosophy of Religion of Franz Rosenzweig, Ferdinand Ebner and Marin
Buber) Freiburg/Breisgau, Germany 1967, page 92.
St. Paul in his letter to the Colossians (1:16–17) stated the same about Christ:
“All things were created through Him and for Him. And He is before all things
and in Him all things consist.”
The concept of “universal Christ,” and “of the Christ of the Evolution” coined
by Teilhard de Chardin in his article about Christology and Evolution, (in
Christianity and Evolution, A Harvest Book, Harcourt Brace & Company; San
Diego, New York, London, 1969) puts his understanding of Christ (for Bahá’ís
that means all Manifestations) into the modern scientific context of evolution
following the Pauline view of Christ. By stating that the Manifestation holds
the immediate destiny of the world in His hand, Bahá’u’lláh, as well, extends
the static formulation of the gospel “all things were made through him” into
the dynamic evolution of the world and, therefore into the present. This
Theilhardian perspective of a universal Christology (could we say as well “Mani-
festology”?) based on the modern scientific idea of the world as evolution was
followed up in Wolfgang Klebel “Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing
Bahá’í Principles with the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin.” in Lights of
‘Irfán, Book Five, 2004, pages 77–108.
In another prayer Bahá’u’lláh describes this situation, with empathic
understanding:

He Who was Thy Spirit (Jesus), O my God, withdrew all alone in the darkness
of the night preceding His last day on earth, and falling on His face to the ground
besought Thee saying: “If it be Thy will, O my Lord, my Well-Beloved, let this cup,
through Thy grace and bounty, pass from me.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen


By Thy beauty, O Thou Who art the Lord of all names and the Creator of the heav-
ens! I can smell the fragrance of the words which, in His love for Thee, His lips have
uttered, and can feel the glow of the fire that had inflamed His soul in its longing to
behold Thy face and in its yearning after the Day-Spring of the light of Thy oneness,
and the Dawning-Place of Thy transcendent unity. (PM 192–193).
This understanding of the Manifestation not only being the cause of creation,
but also the sustaining power behind the world, could be understood within the
Teilhardian concept of the Universal Christ, the final focus point, the Omega
point of creation (Revelation 1:9) and the Pauline theology of Christ who “is all
and is in all” (Col. 3:11). The new understanding expressed in Teilhard’s opus is
the scientific understanding of the world as an evolution of the spirit in matter,
of the principle of unity in plurality, of body and spirit, which fits surprisingly
well into the Bahá’í writings, as especially expressed by `Abdu´l-Bahá. The
correspondence of these two worldviews, one from the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,
the other from the Christian revelation as understood in a new way by
Teilhard, is worth further exploration following the statement of `Abdu´l-Bahá:
“Furthermore, religion must conform to reason and be in accord with the conclusions
of science. For religion, reason and science are realities; therefore, these three, being
realities, must conform and be reconciled. A question or principle, which is religious
in its nature, must be sanctioned by science. Science must declare it to be valid, and
reason must confirm it in order that it may inspire confidence” (PUP 394).
Bishop John Shelby Spong. Why Christianity Must Change or Die., San
Francisco: Harper,, 1998. In this, and in his other books, Spong has expounded
on this topic that a modern man cannot simple believe in the traditional Biblical
God. Spong sees himself in exile, waiting for the return of Christ in a new
advent.
A. N. Wilson. God’s Funeral. New York, London: W.W. Norton & Company,
1999.
The doctrine about the justification of God in the face of physical and moral evil
is called theodicy.
Modern man cannot believe in a good God who creates a world that was good
and then became bad through the original sin of the first man Adam. This in
turn required the salvation of the world through a divine sacrifice. As a matter
of fact Teilhard, a Jesuit, had expressed this impossibility in one of his early
writings, which did not pass the censorship of his order, consequently most of
his writings were only published after his death and he turned from teaching
theology to studying paleontology in China. (See Pierre Teilhard de Chardin,
Christianity and Evolution. San Diego, New York, London: Harcourt Brace &
Company, 1969, note on page 55).
Teilhard de Chardin has addressed this problem in the book The Phenomenon
of Man. New York: Harper & Row, 1975, pages 311–313) and has attempted to
see this issue in a much wider perspective. His thoughts are surprisingly close
to those of `Abdu´l-Bahá, who describes sin as falling back into the animal

Reflections on a Prayer of Bahá’u’lláh

nature of man and evil as absence of good and not a dualistic counterpoint to
God. Teilhard sees sin in a similar context of man evolving in a spiritual pro-
gression and sin and evil as a problem, or a fall from progressive development
in the direction to “humanization” and “spiritualization” of the world. This
seeming parallel certainly needs further illumination.
The concept of a God of Evolution, coined by Teilhard de Chardin is such an
attempt of the scientific understanding of the world and implies as well that the
old concept of God as a static being in heaven is scientifically untenable, (Confer.
Christianity and Evolution, ibid. Page 237) and especially in: The Phenomenon of
Man. New York: Harper and Row, 1975 passim, especially the Postscript, page
300–310.

How some understanding of Quantum Mechanics can assist in understand-
ing the truth about the Manifestations of God was presented in an ‘Irfán
Occasional Paper, Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation,
Bahá’u’lláh ‘s Most Sublime Vision, ’Irfán Colloquia Publications, Bahá’í
National Center, Evanston, IL 60201-1611, 2009, especially pages 50–81.
One way to try to understand it is the following thought. Each progressive
Revelation opens the ability of man to know and love God, they even illuminate
man to see and find God in the nature of all created things and in men’s own
nature. The Bahá’í writings in numerous places speak about the openness of the
creation to the knowledge of God, but that knowledge originates in a movement
from God to the world, which seems to be the truth behind the notion of
creation, incarnation and detachment.
The dedication of scientists to the service of humanity is described as worship
by `Abdu´l-Bahá: “In the Bahá’í Cause arts, sciences and all crafts are (counted as)
worship. The man who makes a piece of notepaper to the best of his ability, conscien-
tiously, concentrating all his forces on perfecting it, is giving praise to God. Briefly,
all effort and exertion put forth by man from the fullness of his heart is worship, if
it is prompted by the highest motives and the will to do service to humanity.” (PT
176–177)
Romano Guardini, Der Gegensatz, Versuch zu einer Philosophie des Lebendig-
Konkreten, (The Opposite, attempt to a Philosophy of the Living–Concrete).
Mainz: Matthias-Grünewald Verlag, 4th edition, 1998.
Confer: Wolfgang Klebel. “In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart, in Bahá’í Writings
and Neurocardiology.” in Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Ten, 2009, pp.131–148
“They that valiantly labor in quest of God, will, when once they have renounced all
else but Him, be so attached and wedded unto that City, that a moment’s separation
from it would to them be unthinkable. They will hearken unto infallible proofs
from the Hyacinth of that assembly, and will receive the surest testimonies from
the beauty of its Rose, and the melody of its Nightingale. Once in about a thousand
years shall this City be renewed and readorned….” (GWB 269)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen


“That City is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age and dispensa-
tion. In the days of Moses it was the Pentateuch; in the days of Jesus, the Gospel; in
the days of Muhammad, the Messenger of God, the Qur’án; in this day, the Bayán;
and in the Dispensation of Him Whom God will make manifest, His own Book—
the Book unto which all the Books of former Dispensations must needs be referred,
the Book that standeth amongst them all transcendent and supreme.” (GWB
269–270) (KI 199).
To quote only one passage of (`Abdu’l-Bahá: “Religion and science are the two
wings upon which man’s intelligence can soar into the heights, with which the
human soul can progress. It is not possible to fly with one wing alone! Should a man
try to fly with the wing of religion alone he would quickly fall into the quagmire of
superstition, whilst on the other hand, with the wing of science alone he would also
make no progress, but fall into the despairing slough of materialism.” (PT 143).
It is interesting what Bahá’u’lláh wrote to Pope Pius IX, just around the time
the Pope defined his own infallibility at the Vatican I council. If seen in the light
of God’s supreme power and of men’s inability to know and to attain this power
of God, it certainly limits the functions of the Pope and every future religious
leader. Bahá’u’lláh in his message praises the Pope with these words: “You, in
truth, are one of the sons of heaven in his name.” And yet he directs him to “Aban-
don thy kingdom unto the kings, and emerge from thy habitation, with thy face set
towards the Kingdom, and, detached from the world, then speak forth the praises of
thy Lord betwixt earth and heaven. Thus hath bidden thee He Who is the Possessor
of Names, on the part of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Knowing.” ( PB 85).
“Note thou: could these fevers in the world of the mind, these fires of war and hate, of
resentment and malice among the nations, this aggression of peoples against peoples,
which have destroyed the tranquillity of the whole world ever be made to abate,
except through the living waters of the teachings of God? No, never!” (SWA 53).
Shoghi Effendi. “The Importance of Deepening.” “It is the obligation of Bahá’í
scholarship to elucidate these events, to interpret the contemporary writings
and to draw the lines into the future” (CC 230). Or in another excerpt from
letters by Shoghi Effendi: (19 April 1947, The Importance of Deepening, CC
228–229) it is stated on his behalf: “Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the
Bahá’ís (who asked his advice, and in general also) to study history, economics,
sociology, etc., in order to be au courant with all the progressive movements
and thoughts being put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to
the Bahá’í teachings. What he wants the Bahá’ís to do is to study more, not to
study less. The more general knowledge, scientific and otherwise, they possess,
the better. Likewise he is constantly urging them to really study the Bahá’í
teachings more deeply. One might liken Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings to a sphere;
there are points poles apart, and in between the thoughts and doctrines that
unite them.”
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, of the English language,
unabridged, 1976.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”1
Ian Kluge
Introduction
In 1795, Immanuel Kant published Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical
Sketch2 in which he outlined the practical steps necessary to end war
among nation-states. This work is a part of the history3 of utopian
thought4 in Europe, and was preceded by a long tradition of plans to
improve individuals and the society that began most famously with
Plato’s Republic, continues through St. Thomas More’s Utopia, and
comes in the period before and after Kant to a number of propos-
als for eliminating war. Among those preceding Kant’s “Perpetual
Peace” was Emeric Cruce’s Discourses on the Opportunities and Means
for Establishing a General Peace and Freedom of Trade Throughout the
World (c.1623).5 Among the root causes of war, Cruce listed “bigotry,
profit, reparation and glory-seeking.”6 In his view, the best way to
overcome these causes are closer trade and communication among
the peoples of the world, a global currency and a political congress
made of representatives from all of humankind. His solutions are
still discussed today.7 Another noteworthy work in the ‘peace tradi-
tion’ is William Penn’s “An Essay Towards the Present and Future Peace
of Europe” (1693). Penn proposes a European parliament with man-
datory attendance by all European monarchs to settle all disputes
that cannot be solved by direct negotiations by the affected parties.
States refusing to submit their differences or refusing to abide by
the European parliament’s decisions shall be compelled to do so and
be liable for all costs and damages resulting from their refusal. Two
decades after Penn, the French philosopher Saint-Pierre published
A Project for Setting an Everlasting Peace in Europe (1714) which

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
suggested that peace was best achieved by uniting all European
states into a “representative federation based on population rather
than power”8 and by limiting the size of national armies. Difficult
issues would be discussed and resolved by committees established to
reconcile conflicting claims. In short, the relations among European
states were to be based on the rule of law and not on the ambitions
or advantages of kings. Jean-Jacque Rousseau suggested a European
federation or confederation united by the rule of law in A Lasting
Peace Through the Federation of Europe (1782). Rousseau saw four
necessary requirements for a lasting European peace: first, all the
important powers in Europe must be members of this federation;
second, whatever laws these powers legislate must be binding on all;
third, there must be a common military force able to compel obe-
dience from every members state and fourth, once in, no state can
withdraw from this federation.9 Here, too, we observe a proposal
for a trans-national parliament with dispute setting powers and the
means for enforcing its judgments.
There were, of course, others who had contributed to this ‘peace
tradition’ before Kant. Three of the most famous are Hugo Grotius
who formulated the first code of international laws regarding war and
peace (1625), Samuel Pufendorf, the first man to be a professor of
international law (1674) and Christian Wolff who tried to organize
the different types of laws among nations (1754) in order to clarify
legal processes. Of course, these authors advocated plans to bring
order to current diplomatic and military practices rather than the
complete elimination of international conflict. War among sovereign
nation-states might be limited in scope to combatants, made more
humane and legally allowed only in certain circumstances but the
practice of war would remain as a tragic but inevitable part of the
human existence. However, what Cruce, Penn, Saint-Pierre, Kant
and the Bahá’í Writings aim at is the eventual complete elimination
of war itself.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
Because of Kant’s incalculable influence on the development of
virtually all aspects of modern philosophy and thought in general,
our comparison study will focus on the Bahá’í Writings and “To
Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Sketch.” We shall devote our efforts
to answering one question: To what extent does Kant’s essay directly
anticipate and/or indirectly foreshadow the Bahá’í teachings about
the elimination of war and the establishment of a workable peace?
Answering this question requires a careful examination of their simi-
larities and differences not only in what is or is not said explicitly but
also in what is also left implicit or in the background.
Our examination will show that while there are numerous similarities
between “Perpetual Peace” and the Bahá’í Writings, these similari-
ties are not only superficial, but also accidental and not essential. In
other words, as long as we confine ourselves to surface presentations,
it appears that Kant’s proposals and the Writings are much of a kind,
but in-depth analysis shows such is not the case. Indeed, because these
similarities are based on vastly different foundational principles, they
are accidental or coincidental, rather than essential and necessary
conclusions derived from common principles. Therefore, any claim
that Kant anticipated Bahá’u’lláh is only tenable when our analysis
remains superficial.
1: A Brief Overview of Kant’s
“Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Sketch”
At the beginning of the first section, Kant outlines the six “prelimi-
nary articles for perpetual peace among nations.” (Kant 1983, 107)
The first of these is, “No treaty of peace that tacitly reserves issues
for a future war shall be held valid.” (ibid) In other words, no treaty
may have secret clauses that legitimize future declarations of war.
Obviously such clauses would change a peace treaty into a mere
truce. Kant’s second article states that “No independent nation, be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
it large or small, may be acquired by another nation by inheritance,
exchange, purchase or as a gift.” (ibid 108) Territories and especially
human beings are not “mere objects to be manipulated at will.” (ibid)
This principle stems from Kant’s famous dictum that human beings
are never to be treated as objects or means disposable for others’
use.10 The third article says that “Standing armies (miles perpetuus)
shall gradually be abolished” (Kant 1983, 108) for the simple rea-
son that maintaining them lays unduly burdensome expenditures
on the people. Article four demands that “No national debt shall
be contracted in connection with the foreign affairs of a nation.”
(ibid 109) Kant believed that contracting foreign debt especially
with regard to foreign affairs encouraged profligate spending and
military adventures. In the fifth article, Kant asserts the principle
of absolute national sovereignty: “No nation shall forcibly interfere
with the constitution and government of another.” (ibid 109) Finally,
the sixth article states, “No nation at war with another shall per-
mit such acts of war as shall make mutual trust impossible during
some future time of peace.” (ibid) In other words, countries must not
make use of tactics like assassination, encouraging treason in the
opposing nation, or other underhanded stratagems that erode the
trust necessary to build a future peace.
Kant next adds three “definitive articles of perpetual peace” (ibid 112)
the first of which is that “[t]he civil constitution of every nation should
be republican,” (ibid) i.e. members of every nation-state should be free
and in government, the executive and legislative powers should be
separate. (ibid 114) The second “definitive article” states that “the right
of nations shall be based on a federation of free states” (ibid 115) that
would eventually include all nations. (ibid 117) The third and final
article states that “Cosmopolitan right shall be limited to conditions
of universal hospitality.” (ibid 118) A visitor to a foreign country has
a right to hospitality “as long as he behaves peaceably.” (ibid) In other
words, citizenship is universal, or global, so long as a person does
nothing to undermine the peace.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
In the first of the two supplements, Kant explains that
Perpetual peace is insured (guaranteed) by nothing less
than that great artist nature (natura daedala rerum) whose
mechanical process makes purposiveness [Zweckmaessigkeit]
visibly manifest, permitting harmony to emerge among men
through their discord, even against their wills. (ibid 120).
In this passage (remarkably prescient of Hegel’s theory of history)
Kant seems to be predicting that human unity will occur not just
despite the fact of war but also because of the fact of human war. Con-
flict, he says has not just driven peoples to populate the world but also
to “establish more or less legal relationships.” (ibid 121) Like Toynbee
after him, Kant noticed that peoples entangled in war inevitably draw
closer even though this is not their intent. Kant’s second supplement
requires that while political leaders must rule, they should at least
consult with philosophers who bring a wider perspective to the analy-
sis of any subject. Obviously, the idea of Plato’s philosopher king still
has some life left in it according to Kant. The two appendices which
follow the supplements are concerned with various issues related to
the concept of individual, public and international “right” which Kant
believes must underlie any perpetual peace.

2: The Baha’i Vision of International Order: An Overview
Bahá’u’lláh’s vision for the attainment of world peace is divided
into two major phases, a Lesser Peace which will “be established
through the efforts of the nations of the world” 11 and the Most Great
Peace which is “the ultimate peace promised to all the peoples and
nations.”12 The Most Great Peace will be the crowning stage of the
current chapter of human development. According to Bahá'u'lláh,
the process leading to these momentous and revolutionary changes
has already begun:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating
influence of this most great, this new World Order. Mankind’s
ordered life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this
unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes
have never witnessed. (GWB 136)
In other words, Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation has initiated the process
by which “[m]ankind’s ordered life,” i.e. politics, culture, economics
and spirituality will be “revolutionized” or radically transformed in
ways unimaginable in pre-global phases of historical development.
Now that all human activities are globally inter-connected, radically
new ways of thinking and acting are necessary for individuals and
collectives like national states, economies and religions. Bahá’u’lláh
prophesies that this may happen more quickly than we think: “Soon
will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its
stead” (GWB 313) These changes are unavoidable because it is no
longer reasonable to believe that “the world will somehow be able to
continue muddling its way through world-problems using nation-
oriented solutions.”13 The current order stands in the way of human
progress, i.e. hinders the full realization of individual and collective
potentials and must be replaced by something else. This immanent
transformation will be ‘revolutionary’ not in the historical sense of
fomenting a violent upheaval but in the sense of changing the funda-
mental principles by which individuals and societies view the world
and function. Such changes will be far-reaching and deep because
they extend beyond the superstructural phenomena of politics,
culture and economics and “revolutionized the soul of mankind.” (PB
117) In other words, these changes touch the very foundations of
human nature.
Before humankind can attain the Most Great Peace, it must first
establish the Lesser Peace. Bahá’u’lláh writes,

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
We pray God—exalted be His glory—and cherish the hope
that He may graciously assist the manifestations of affluence
and power and the daysprings of sovereignty and glory, the
kings of the earth—may God aid them through His strength-
ening grace—to establish the Lesser Peace. This, indeed, is the
greatest means for insuring the tranquillity of the nations. It is
incumbent upon the Sovereigns of the world—may God assist
them—unitedly to hold fast unto this Peace, which is the chief
instrument for the protection of all mankind… It is their duty
to convene an all-inclusive assembly, which either they them-
selves or their ministers will attend, and to enforce whatever
measures are required to establish unity and concord amongst
men. They must put away the weapons of war, and turn to the
instruments of universal reconstruction. Should one king rise
up against another, all the other kings must arise to deter him.
Arms and armaments will, then, be no more needed beyond
that which is necessary to insure the internal security of their
respective countries. (ESW 30)
Although it has spiritual aspects, the Lesser Peace is chiefly a politi-
cal process involving the nations of the world. It will come about
not so much by virtue of spiritual enlightenment as by the quest
for national survival and mutual economic benefit, i.e. by largely
secular concerns. These concerns may be correlated with some spiri-
tual developments, but spiritual matters are not of primary interest.
According to Ali Nakhjavani, the Lesser Peace “is solely founded
upon political considerations and requirements”14 and will be viewed
by political leaders “as the last and only remaining solution to their
political ideals.”15 He adds,
although its future constitution will—to some extent—be
influenced by moral and ethical standards, it will undoubt-
edly be devoid of the bounty of the spiritual principles of the
Cause of God.16

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
In other words, the Lesser Peace is primarily political and not spiritual
in nature. This means, among other things, that the Lesser and Most
Great embody two different forms of consciousness, one grounded
in purely human will and without any concern for the transcendent
aspects of reality, and the other grounded in transcendent divine will
as expressed in revelation. These forms of consciousness are mani-
fested in differences in law, culture, philosophy, social organization
and norms, leadership the arts as well as the life-expectations people
have. But the differences go further. We might also say that the Lesser
Peace is superstructural insofar as it is not based on humankind’s
spiritual nature, i.e. does not involve the whole human being. Given
the frailty of human nature, this is not assuring.
If the Lesser Peace did not lead to the Most Great Peace, humankind
would never evolve spiritually. Shoghi Effendi states,
No machinery falling short of the standard inculcated by the
Bahá’í Revelation, and at variance with the sublime pattern
ordained in His teachings, which the collective efforts of mankind
may yet devise can ever hope to achieve anything above or beyond
that “Lesser Peace” to which the Author of our Faith has Himself
alluded in His writings. (WOB 162)
This statement clearly means that the Lesser Peace while necessary, is
not sufficient for the fullest development of human potentials both
in individuals and in collectives. It is not sufficient because, among
other things, “religious strife and racial prejudice will not have
entirely left the hearts and souls of the human race.” 17 Moreover, in
the last analysis, how much can we rely on superstructural political,
cultural, and economic changes that are not grounded in spiritual
transformations that have “revolutionized the soul of mankind”? (PB
117) We need more than good intentions.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
This intermediate stage is called Great Peace, a terminology used
in the Bahá’í Writings in Persian, and as elaborated by Ali Nakh-
javani, the historical nature of human development means there will
be an intermediate, transition period between the Lesser Peace and
the Most Great Peace. In this transition period, we can observe the
appearance of some of the key components of the Most Great Peace.18
This intermediate phase is the “Great Peace,” is the time when “the
Bahá’í Teachings will have beyond any doubt penetrated the organs
of the Lesser Peace”19 and when religious and racial prejudice will
be eliminated. Bahá’í institutions will become influential at all levels
in the unfolding unification of humankind and the renewal of all
aspects of human existence. However, even at this point, the crown-
ing achievement of this development is missing, namely the Most
Great Peace. In the words of Bahá'u'lláh,
That which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy
and mightiest instrument for the healing of all the world is the
union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common
Faith. This can in no wise be achieved except through the power
of a skilled, an all-powerful and inspired Physician. This, verily,
is the truth, and all else naught but error. (SLH 91 emphasis
added)
`Abdu’l-Bahá says, “All men will adhere to one religion, will have one
common faith, will be blended into one race, and become a single people.
All will dwell in one common fatherland, which is the planet itself. (SAQ
64–65) Of course, this spiritual unity will reflect itself in the gov-
ernance of the new world order and the establishment of a renewed
cultural, scientific, economic and political existence.
Because the Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace are phases of a
single historical process, we shall discuss them both in our study of
the Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
3. A World Federation
The best known feature of Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” is his proposal for
a “league of peace” (Kant 1983, 117) whose goal is to “end all wars
forever.” (ibid) In Kant’s view, the most practical way to achieve this
goal is by means of a “federation of free states” (ibid 115) that will
eventually include all nations on earth. As members of this “league”
or “federation,” all nations give up the right of their “savage (lawless)
freedom” (ibid 117) to make war just as individuals give up some of
their ‘lawless’ freedoms in return for the benefits of living in a peace-
ful nation. Restraining the exercise of some of their freedoms is the
only way for individuals and nations to the gain greater advantages
made possible by cooperation, especially in regards to collective
security. Kant says, “For the sake of its own security, each nation can
and should demand that the others enter a contract resembling the
civil one and guaranteeing the rights of each.” (ibid) Furthermore, for
Kant, the guarantee of national rights was an absolute necessity in
upholding peace:
This league does not seek any power of the sort possessed by
nations but only maintenance and security for each nation’s
own freedom as well as that of other nations leagued with it
without their having thereby to subject themselves to civil
laws and their constraints (as men in a state of nature must
do). It can be shown that this idea of federalism should
eventually include all nations and lead to perpetual peace.
(ibid 117 emphasis added)
In other words, Kant’s vision limits the powers of the federation to
external affairs, specifically in regards to waging war, and does not
envisage any jurisdiction over a state’s internal issues. Nations will
not be subject to “civil laws” the way individuals are subject to “civil
laws” within the state. This view harmonizes with his previously
announced principle that “No nation shall forcibly interfere with the

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
constitution and government of another.” (ibid 109) The principle of
national sovereignty, i.e. non-interference in a state’s internal affairs
prevails in Kant’s proposals.
This aspect of “Perpetual Peace” shows that Kant’s thinking lies within
the framework of the Treaty of Westphalia (1648) which established
the modern nation-state system on the principle of absolute national
sovereignty. Consequently, he is at pains to point out that nations
voluntarily join the “league of peace” “without their having thereby to
subject themselves to civil laws and their constraints.” (ibid 117) They are
only subjecting themselves to a voluntary agreement regarding exter-
nal relationships, specifically about war and the capacity to go to war
and not about their own internal affairs. There they retain absolute
sovereign rights. According to Kant, nations give up the right to war
only because it is irrational: it replaces reason with force and it serves
only those “who are disposed to seek one another’s destruction and
thus to find perpetual peace in the grave.” (ibid) In short, it serves
only the blood-thirsty.
However, in one respect Kant’s proposal leaves the Westphalian
framework behind, viz. the recognition that purely nation-based
solutions to the problem of war will not work. Simple bi-lateral
agreements among individual nations are not enough to ensure
peace. Consequently, some kind of ‘supra-national’ agency is needed,
a “league of peace” which ensures that all members are committed
to the same basic principles, i.e. have unity of vision, and act within
the same basic limitations, i.e. have some unity of action. This unity
of outlook and action lays the foundation for predictability in inter-
nationality and, thereby, for stability and peace. International action
will thus be driven by law and not by personal will.
Nevertheless, Kant’s move beyond the Westphalian model is rather
limited, more a matter of improving than actually dealing with
the fundamental short-comings of the model. As we shall observe

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
below, his proposals leave too much power in the hands of individual
nations and rulers to be truly effective in preserving peace. In short,
“Perpetual Peace” is too restricted in its scope to achieve its goal. There
is, for example, no clear method for dealing with recalcitrant rulers
and nations or even those who renege on their commitments, i.e. no
way of dealing with “rogue states” which threaten the peace. It is also
doubtful that by themselves Kant’s proposals are enough to lay a
foundation for a lasting peace. For example, he is silent about the
need for a unified world-view among the peoples of the world—as
distinct from their governments—or the abolition of racial, religious
and class prejudice. These are not just theoretical quibbles. In the
20th Century humankind has had bitter experience with the ability
of clashing world-views or ideologies and racial, religious and class
prejudices to plunge the planet into mass warfare despite such inter-
national agreements as the Kellogg-Briand Pact (General Treaty for
the Renunciation of War, 1928), which was signed by virtually every
participant in WW II. Obviously, purely political or diplomatic
agreements are not enough to ensure peace.
The Bahá’í teachings certainly agree with Kant as to the need for a
global federation in preventing war and to establish a “world federal
system” (WOB 204) in which humankind will be “liberated from the
curse of war and its miseries.” (WOB 204) Elsewhere the Guardian
refers to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s hope “in the hoisting of the standard of the
Lesser Peace, in the unification of mankind, and in the establishment
of a world federal government on this planet.” (CF 126) However,
while for Kant, the realization of a global federation or “league of
peace” marks the terminus of humankind’s socio-political evolution,
for the Bahá’í Faith, the Lesser Peace which brings about “unity in the
political realm” (SWAB 32) is only a transition phase to the still more
comprehensive Most Great Peace in which
all nations and kindreds will be gathered together under the
shadow of this Divine… and will become a single nation.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
Religious and sectarian antagonism, the hostility of races and
peoples, and differences among nations, will be eliminated. All
men will adhere to one religion, will have one common faith, will
be blended into one race, and become a single people. All will
dwell in one common fatherland (SAQ 65 emphasis added).
In the Bahá’í vision, the ultimate end of our social evolution will be
a unity based on spiritual principles which will over-ride differences
of religion, race, class and nationality, and make the earth itself our
homeland. This, of course, requires a momentous spiritual transfor-
mation that will, in effect, make politics as we know them, obsolete.
For Kant, such a vision raises concerns about national sovereignty i.e.
the rights of nations. When all “dwell in one common fatherland” what
remains of the autonomy of the national state? As he says, “Such a
federation is necessarily tied rationally to the concept of the right
of nations.” (Kant 1983, 117) Only in regards to war-making can
there be any limitation of national sovereignty or rights. The basic
problem with this is that as noted above, in the 20th Century we have
learned by experience that establishing peace requires measures far
beyond political and diplomatic agreements for reducing the ability
to wage war; enduring peace can only be established when other, non-
political/diplomatic conditions are met such as unity of world-view
and the abolition of racial, national, religious and class prejudice. It is
relatively easy for well-meaning or politically shrewd nations to admit
that unilateral war-making is not a national right. As Kant says,
“[F]rom the throne of its moral legislative power, reason absolutely
condemns war as a means of determining the right.” (ibid 116) Few
would argue that being stronger proves one is right. However, the
question that 20th Century history raises is ‘How long can such good
political intentions last if the foundations for peace are not firmly in
place’? How long can they resist internal pressure from a population
ablaze with racial, religious, nationalist or class fervor? And how long
can they refrain from war in a struggle of ideologies? Kant, of course,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
could not have foreseen such developments and, therefore, he set up
no provisions for preventing or short-circuiting them. The Bahá’í
Writings, on the other hand, seem to have foreseen such develop-
ments insofar as they prescribe, as we shall see, the exact measures
needed to forestall them. While they do not use the word ‘ideology’—
who would have understood it at the time?—they do prescribe the
exact remedies needed to undermine and undo the effects of these
various forms of prejudice and their ideological outgrowths.
The Bahá’í Writings both agree and disagree with Kant’s propos-
als in “Perpetual Peace.” They agree that the “league of peace” must
be a federation of some kind. Asked by an official of the American
government how best to serve both the interests of his country and
the people of the world, `Abdu’l-Bahá advised him “to assist in the
eventual application of the principle of federalism underlying the govern-
ment of your own country to the relationships now existing between
the peoples and nations of the world.” (WOB 36 emphasis added) In
American federalism, responsibilities and rights are divided between
the central government which looks after the well-being of the whole
federation, and the states which look after a particular part of the
union. The individual states are united by a covenant or agreement
but are not subject to an autocratic centralized government. In this
regard, `Abdu’l-Bahá also states,
It is very evident that in the future there shall be no centralization
in the countries of the world, be they constitutional in government,
republican or democratic in form. The United States may be held
up as the example of future government—that is to say, each
province will be independent in itself, but there will be federal
union protecting the interests of the various independent states
(PUP 167 emphasis added).
It is noteworthy that the “ federal union” will protect the legitimate
interests of its “independent states.” What these “legitimate interests”

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
are may, of course, vary from one historical circumstance to another;
this guarantees flexibility but the rights and responsibilities of the
constituent states prevents this power to look after the whole from
becoming a dictatorial centralized power. According to Shoghi
Effendi, the principle of federalism applies even to the Most Great
Peace; he describes the international form of government in the Most
Great Peace as “a world federal system.” (WOB 203)
This general agreement notwithstanding, the Bahá’í concept of
federalism differs substantially from Kant’s. The difference is not
one of degree but of kind. As we have already seen, Kant writes
that nation-states can join the federal union of the “league of
peace” “without their having thereby to subject themselves to civil
laws and their constraints.” (Kant 1983, 117) Elsewhere he writes,
“Nations can press their rights only by waging war and never in a
trial before an independent tribunal,” (ibid 116) and that nations
“have outgrown the compulsion to subject themselves to another
legal constitution that is subject to someone else’s concept of right.”
(ibid) In other words, nations remain absolutely sovereign except in
regards to war-making which they relinquish by voluntary agree-
ment. There is no supra-national authority or tribunal where a state
may be arraigned.
Such is not the case in the Bahá’í vision of a world federalism neither
in the Lesser Peace nor in the Most Great Peace. Shoghi Effendi
points out that Bahá’u’lláh advocates “the inevitable curtailment of
unfettered national sovereignty as an indispensable preliminary to
the formation of the future Commonwealth of all the nations of the
world.” (WOB 40) This preliminary to the Commonwealth of the
Most Great Peace is foundational to the Bahá’í vision of the future
world order. Humanity must abandon the basic principle of the
Westphalian system of international politics in order to attain genu-
ine security and progress in eliminating the basic causes of war. This
alone makes the difference between Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” and the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Bahá’í vision a difference not in degree but in kind. In essence, Kant’s
plan is still Westphalian in nature, and Bahá’u’lláh’s is not and this
divergence leads to a number of significant consequences.
For example, as Shoghi Effendi tells us, there will be more than a
“league of peace”—there will be a “world super-state” (WOB 40) in
which all nations will not only give up the right to make war, and,
by implication, to build up war-making potentials, but will also
give up “certain rights to impose taxes.” (WOB 40) The political
and diplomatic provisions for limiting the capacity for waging war
are, in principle, present in Kant’s dictum that “standing armies
(miles perpetuus) shall be gradually abolished.” (Kant 1983, 108)
Obviously, standing armies must be eliminated not only because
they encourage wars of aggression by encouraging arms-races that
increase the risks of war breaking out, but also because they impose
needless and burdensome costs on the citizens of a nation. How-
ever, nothing in “Perpetual Peace” suggests that the “league of peace”
will “include within its orbit an international executive adequate to
enforce supreme and unchallengeable authority on every recalcitrant
member of the commonwealth” (WOB 40). For Kant, this integral
part of the Bahá’í vision would go too far in requiring nations “to
subject themselves to civil laws and their constraints (as men in a state
of nature must do), (Kant 1983, 117 emphasis added) something
which he finds unacceptable. Because it entails a severe curtailment
of national autonomy, Even more unacceptable to Kant is the con-
cept of “a supreme tribunal whose judgment will have a binding effect
even in such cases where the parties concerned did not voluntarily
agree to submit their case to its consideration.” (WOB 40) Obvi-
ously this entails a severe curtailment of national autonomy since
according to Kant, nations can never pursue their rights in “a trial
before an independent tribunal.” (Kant 1983, 116) Such subjection
would be exactly the kind undergone by individuals in the state of
nature. However, historical developments have surpassed Kant’s
rather Westphalian version of global federalism. Rather than having

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
absolute, even autarkical independence, members of the WTO take
each other to binding arbitration on a regular basis and political
leaders have found themselves charged and/or tried by the Interna-
tional Criminal Court in The Hague for policies they have enacted
both abroad and in their own countries. Finally nations can find
themselves being sanctioned by the U.N. for their behavior. Appeals
to the principle of absolute national sovereignty are still made but
they no longer carry the conceptual or ethical force they once did.
The Westphalian concept of unfettered national independence is
rapidly becoming an artifact of humankind’s political past.
On this issue of absolute national independence and tribunals,
`Abdu’l-Bahá says:
It is necessary that the nations and governments organize an
international tribunal to which all their disputes and differ-
ences shall be referred. The decision of that tribunal shall be
final… International questions will come before the universal
tribunal, and so the cause of warfare will be taken away. (PUP
300 emphasis added)
In other words, on certain matters at least, nations can indeed, be
required to face an international tribunal which is akin to a Supreme
Court in a federal system. Moreover, this tribunal’s decisions are
“final,” i.e. not appealable to any higher authority and thus, binding
on nation-states. Shoghi Effendi adds,
A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory
and final verdict in all and any disputes that may arise between
the various elements constituting this universal system. (WOB
202 emphasis added)
The fact that this tribunal’s verdicts are compulsory in “all and any dis-
putes” involving the “various elements” making up the “universal system”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
suggests that even non-state actors like NGO’s, transnational corpora-
tions, cartels and international unions fall under its jurisdiction. After
all, modern politics, especially at the international level, is no longer
limited to state-actors as was traditionally the case. This position, too,
indicates a substantial difference with Kant’s proposals and outlook
insofar as the Bahá’í plan is not necessarily limited to state-actors.
Lest there be any misunderstanding, it is important to re-emphasize
that the Bahá’í version of world federalism simply applies the feder-
alist principle of the division of powers to the international sphere.
The central government and each constituent state, province, canton
or republic have their own, inviolable sphere of rights, powers and
responsibilities. There will be no autarkies. “[E]ach province will be
independent in itself, but there will be federal union protecting the inter-
ests of the various independent states.” (PUP 167) With this division of
power “the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom
and initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely and
completely safeguarded.” (WOB 202) According to Shoghi Effendi,
even though there will be “a single code of international law” (WOB
40) in the future world commonwealth, “the autonomy of its state
members and the personal freedom and initiative of the individuals
that compose them are definitely and completely safeguarded.” (WOB
202) He adds that in a Bahá’í global federation, there is no intent “to
abolish the system of national autonomy so essential if the evils of
excessive centralization are to be avoided.” (WOB 41 emphasis
added) Over-centralization is seen as a cause of war for which reason
one of the goals of the future world is “[t]o cast aside centralization which
promotes despotism is the exigency of the time. This will be productive of
international peace.” (PUP 167 emphasis added)
A federal framework is also conducive to the essential Bahá’í concept
of unity in diversity, i.e. the goal of preserving unity while at the same
time maintaining

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
the diversity of ethnical origins, of climate, of history, of
language and tradition, of thought and habit, that differenti-
ate the peoples and nations of the world. It calls for a wider
loyalty, for a larger aspiration than any that has animated
the human race (WOB 41).
Shoghi Effendi summarizes the Bahá’í position: “It repudiates
excessive centralization on one hand, and disclaims all attempts at
uniformity on the other. Its watchword is unity in diversity” (WOB
41). Federalism is the only way to achieve this goal.
Because excessive centralism inevitably leads to tensions and hostili-
ties, it is an example of ‘structural violence,’ i.e. social, economic and
political structures that repress certain groups and deprive them of
their rights. This repression is built into law, political processes and
rules, social customs and economic arrangements and are regarded as
‘normal’ or ‘appropriate’ by those who benefit from the arrangements.
Sooner or later, however, such structural violence erupts into open
hostilities because it is inherently unjust; “the absence of justice is
the principle source of social upheaval and unrest.”20 On this issue
as well, there is a significant difference between the Bahá’í Writings
and Kant, who simply passes over this subject. This is noteworthy
because some of his predecessors in writing ‘peace literature’ such as
Emeric Cruce and St. Thomas More touched on many of these issues
as part of their proposals. Whether Kant was aware of them or not is
a matter for Kant specialists to decide. What matters to this study is
that in contrast to the Bahá’í Writings, Kant gives no consideration
to the topic of structural violence.
The Bahá’í Writings make it clear that economic injustice is an
absolutely intolerable form of structural violence and to cure it
envisages a “world community in which all economic barriers will
have been permanently demolished and the interdependence of Cap-
ital and Labor definitely recognized.” (WOB 40) Unlike Kant, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Bahá’í federal system recognizes that economic ties are necessary to
establish and maintain peace both within nations and among them.
Within nations, the Writings teach that the extremes of wealth and
poverty should be abolished (DG 20) not only because such extremes
are unjust but also because they create a climate for class conflict
within society. By recognizing the “interdependence of Capital and
Labor” Bahá’í federalism removes the basis for all concepts of class
warfare, i.e. the belief that the interests of the working classes and of
capitalists or investors are always irrevocably opposed in a struggle
that can only end with the complete victory of one or the other. By
saying that “Capital and Labor” are interdependent, the Bahá’í
federalism suggests that their best interests can be managed so they
are complementary insofar as each depends on the other. Thus, each
benefits by restraining and conforming its demands for the good of
the whole economic system. Furthermore, at the international level,
making nations economically inter-dependent and, thereby making
each of them an integral part of the global economy will help make
destructive actions such as war economically unfeasible. The more
national economies depend on each other, the less they are able to go
to war against each other.
Finally, the Bahá’í federal world order will be one in which:
the clamor of religious fanaticism and strife will have been
forever stilled; in which the flame of racial animosity will have
been finally extinguished; in which a single code of interna-
tional law—the product of the considered judgment of the
world's federated representatives—shall have as its sanction
the instant and coercive intervention of the combined forces
of the federated units; and finally a world community in
which the fury of a capricious and militant nationalism will
have been transmuted into an abiding consciousness of world
citizenship (WOB 40 emphasis added)

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
In the future state sought by Bahá’ís, some of the major causes for
war will be eliminated, i.e. “religious fanaticism” as well as “racism”
and lawlessness or anarchy in international affairs. The first two
undermine peace because they are really forms of tribalism dividing
humankind into “them versus us” factions and, thereby, creating a
culture of conflict that is the necessary psycho-social pre-condition
for war. Without a “single code of international law” there will be
anarchy in international affairs which is turn engenders an atmo-
sphere of mutual suspicion and fear of the unpredictable, in which
arms races flourish. These, in turn, destabilize international affairs
and often make it easy for wars to be ignited.
There will also be a monumental expansion of loyalties as people see
themselves not only as citizens of a particular nation but also as citi-
zens of the world. This widening of perspective is not merely a matter
of sentiment. Our loyalties influence our priorities and these affect
our actions. For example, the issue of global poverty elicits different
responses from those who think primarily in terms of a global loyalty
than from those who think primarily in terms of national loyalty. We
would approach problems not from a particularistic perspective of
one nation or group of nations, but from the perspective of the whole
world. This is especially true in an age when very few national issues
do not have international repercussions given globalism in trade, com-
munications, travel, finance, military matters and increasingly, culture.
Of course, this expansion of loyalties is not intended “to stifle the flame
of a sane and intelligent patriotism in men’s hearts”(WOB 41) but an
“intelligent patriotism” means precisely that we can recognize that the
long-term best interests of our own country are in self-restraint and
cooperation for the good of the whole global community.
The cumulative importance of these differences between Kant’s
“Perpetual Peace” and the Bahá’í vision of a global federalism is
that the Bahá’í vision seeks to remedy the underlying conditions
that make war possible whereas Kant’s proposals for the most part

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
seek remedies at the political or diplomatic level. Consequently,
his proposals are primarily superstructural in nature and do little
to remedy the underlying causes that are pre-conditions for war.
Among these are international anarchy, i.e. too much national
independence or diplomatic and economic autarchy; racism, reli-
gious fanaticism, “militant nationalism;” class warfare ideology,
and extremes of wealth and poverty. “Perpetual Peace” has little if
anything to say about these.
The diplomatic or political nature of Kant’s proposals is evident even
from a cursory examination. For example, the first, “No treaty of
peace that tacitly reserves issue for a future war shall be held valid”
(Kant 1983, 107) is something that only rulers or governments can
decide among themselves. What is or is not valid in international
affairs is a matter of political convention. The same can be said
regarding the rule that “The rights of nations shall be based on a
federation of free states.” (ibid 115) Who else but rulers or govern-
ments could agree to or sign such an accord? It is strictly an issue
of government-to-government negotiation and ratification. Here are
other ‘articles’ of Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” that are largely matters of
diplomatic convention:
1.
No nation at war… shall permit such acts of war as shall
make mutual trust impossible during some future time.
[Assassinations, instigation of treason etc.] (ibid 110)
2.	 No independent nation be it large or small may be
acquired by another nation by inheritance, exchange,
purchase or gift. (ibid 108)
3.
No national debt shall be contracted in connection with
the foreign affairs of the nation. (ibid 109)
4.
No nation shall forcibly interfere with the constitution
and government of another. (ibid)
5.
Standing armies (miles perpetuus) shall be gradually
abolished. (ibid 108)

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
The decision to establish and abide by each of these articles or conven-
tions lies entirely in the hands of a nation’s political and diplomatic
leadership. Who else would have the authority to agree to and institute
any of them? Who else could be responsible for maintaining them?
Who else but leaders and diplomats could amend, abrogate or coun-
teract them on the international scene? Of course, the Bahá’í vision
of a new world order also includes political measures but it focuses
equally if not more on establishing the necessary pre-conditions for
an enduring peace.
Reasonable and workable as they are, Kant’s proposals implicitly
assume that if nations and rulers agree to these provisions, there
shall be universal peace, i.e. that political will or fiat are sufficient to
create and maintain peace perpetually. There are at least two serious
difficulties with Kant’s assumption. The first is the “force majeure”
problem, i.e. external forces compel actions that a ruler does not
wish to take.21 Such actions may include violations of the “league
of peace.” Common examples throughout history are natural disas-
ters such as prolonged unseasonable weather, disease and famine or
unfortunate conjunctions of events (“perfect storms”) like precipi-
tous plunges in economic fortunes. If, for example, a ruler’s people
are facing starvation and a neighboring ruler has a vast surplus he
will not share, the first ruler may not have much choice about going
to war to get food to get territory where food can be produced. This
violates at least one of Kant’s rules, i.e. not acquiring territory by
conquest. The ruler may not want to do so this but the people may
demand it regardless of what treaties have been signed. Political will
or fiat is simply inadequate to keep the peace in such cases. As we
shall see later, the Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace outlined
in the Bahá’í Writings have ways of solving these difficulties. World
War I is another example of the “force majeure” problem. The bal-
ance of power politics was supposed to prevent WW I yet leaders
quickly lost control of a seemingly unstoppable cascade of unfore-
seen events. Again we see that diplomatic means and political will

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
may be sufficient to establish peace but they are not always sufficient
to maintain it especially in times of crisis.
The second weakness in Kant’s reliance on diplomatic means is the
“bad apple” problem. The inevitable succession of monarchs or changes
in republican politics make it doubtful that political fiat alone can
maintain peace perpetually because sooner or later there will arise one
or a number of leaders who manipulate political, economic and social
factors into an ‘explosive mix’ that suits their aggressive purposes. This
is exactly what led to WW II. Despite the Kellogg-Briand Pact (1929)
which renounced war “as an instrument of national policy,”22 it was
three signatories—Japan, Italy and Germany—which manipulated
and/or violated diplomacy to bring about war. Again, this shows the
limitations of purely political measures to establish and keep peace.
More than treaties are needed to maintain peace. We shall examine
below how the Bahá’í vision deals with this problem.
It is, therefore, clear that Kant’s diplomatic proposals are incapable of
maintaining peace because they do not address the underlying con-
ditions that make war possible and, indeed, likely. However, Kant
does appear to recognize the importance of underlying conditions for
peace in one important—albeit political—respect. In the first place,
he believes in a constitutional state, one in which the exercise of power
is limited by law so that the will of an individual does not become
the supreme power. To have “domestic legitimacy,”23 a state must
“cohere with the concept of right” (Kant 1983, 115) within countries.
Without this coherence with right, a state becomes despotic and
despotism facilitates war. In conjunction with this requirement for
“domestic legitimacy,” Kant stipulates that the “civil constitution of
every nation should be republican” (ibid 112) by which he means it
should have a division between the executive and legislative branches
of government. (ibid 114) Republicanism also ensures the translation
of the public will into political action, a development that he believes
“provides for this desirable result, namely, perpetual peace.” (ibid 113)

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
According to Kant, in a republic, war requires the “consent of the
citizenry” (ibid) and, therefore, will also require the citizens to make
great sacrifice of materiel and lives, often themselves or their children.
Except for self-defense, citizens are rarely inclined to go to war. More-
over, since in a representative government rulers “take[] hold of the
public will and treat it as their own private will” (ibid 114) the public
will is translated into political action and war will, thereby, avoided.
The foregoing explanation shows that even when Kant discusses a
nation’s internal conditions for peace, he focuses on the political
aspects of national life, i.e. on legitimacy, power, representation,
leadership and so on. This is not to suggest that these matters
are unimportant but as the far more comprehensive Bahá’í vision
shows, while they are necessary they are not nearly sufficient to
achieve the abolition of war. From a Bahá’í perspective, this makes
Kant’s proposals deficient.
Furthermore, Kant’s proposals are clearly associated with the con-
cept of ‘negative peace,’ i.e. focusing on the actual fighting, either
preventing it or stopping it once it starts. In this approach, peace is
simply the absence of actual fighting. 24 Negative peace only addresses
“overt, direct violence but largely ignores those social inequalities…
[or] ‘structural violence’ from which overt violence often springs.”25
We shall examine below what the Bahá’í Writings have to say about
‘positive peace” and the creation of conditions that facilitate peace,
but for now it is important to note that the Writings also concern
themselves with ‘negative peace’ i.e. the prevention or stopping of
actual combat:
Should any king take up arms against another, all should unitedly
arise and prevent him. If this be done, the nations of the world will
no longer require any armaments, except for the purpose of pre-
serving the security of their realms and of maintaining internal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
order within their territories. This will ensure the peace and
composure of every people, government and nation (GWB 249)
Clearly, Bahá’u’lláh is aware of the necessity of preventing aggression
which means that action must take place before the aggression starts.
In other words, He recommends pre-emption, a controversial issue
even in our age with a United Nations to oversee collective security.
Nothing in “Perpetual Peace” suggests that the principle of pre-emp-
tion fits into its framework. On the other hand, Bahá’u’lláh explicitly
mandates pre-emption, He says “all should unitedly arise and prevent
him” i.e. He speaks in the imperative; pre-emption is a duty for lead-
ers. This is vitally important in facilitating peace. If nations can be
sure that potential aggressors will be prevented from gathering arms
and attacking, then they can meet their security needs even while
keeping armaments at a minimum. This, in turn, reduces military
tension among states, i.e. “ensure peace and composure,” and allows
other, peaceful methods of problem solving to do their work.
However, Bahá’u’lláh’s injunctions go beyond the principle of pre-
emption. In His Tablet to Queen Victoria he says, “Should any one
among you take up arms against another, rise ye all against him, for this is
naught but manifest justice.” (WOB 40, 192) Again, it is important to
notice the imperative mode of this statement. This is not a matter of
choice, of political preference or even of popular will. It is an unquali-
fied duty and this duty is identified with “justice.” Modern history
justifies Bahá’u’lláh’s strictness in this regard. The events leading to
WW II show the results of not following Bahá’u’lláh’s commands:
Japanese aggression in China in 1935; Fascist Italy’s attacks on Ethio-
pia starting in 1934; and Nazi Germany’s march into the Rhineland
in 1936 are all significant preludes to the global conflict of WW II.
Nor should we carry out Bahá’u’lláh’s command in a half-hearted
or sporadic fashion; doing so simply opens the door to aggression as
various nations ‘try their luck’ in avoiding counteraction.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
4: Peace-Building
Let us now turn our attention to positive peace-building. In its
broadest terms, peace-building involves establishing the politi-
cal, social, cultural, economic and spiritual conditions that make
possible an enduring peace. The concept of peace-building is based
on the conclusion that “[t]raditional methods of diplomacy have
proved ineffective in preventing and resolving… hostilities.”26 This
is not to say that diplomacy is unnecessary, but only that without
the foundations for a lasting peace, diplomacy is not sufficient to
prevent wars from erupting. While diplomats can make peace,
they are unable to maintain it without establishing conditions that
make peace a more advantageous option than war. Peace-building
assumes that if the right conditions exist within and among states,
there is little if any chance of war occurring because there will
always be more political, social, cultural, economic spiritual and
even military factors against war than for it.
Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” really has only one proposal in regards to
peace-building i.e. that all states must be representative and republi-
can. (What that means precisely we shall examine in a moment.) This
proposal makes “Perpetual Peace” one of the first examples of what is
now known as “democratic peace theory”27 according to which citizens
of democratic states do not go to war, at least not against other demo-
cratic states. In this view, “the spread of legitimate domestic political
orders would eventually bring an end to international conflict.”28 Peace
is “fundamentally a question of establishing legitimate domestic orders
throughout the world.”29 Kant would agree for which reason he insists
that the “civil constitution of every nation should be republican.” (Kant
1983, 112) Constitutional republican states are not much inclined to go
to war because the traumas of war are not borne only by professional
armies but also by the general population. The vast majority of people
are generally adverse to such ordeals, though, of course, defensive war
may be the exception. Consequently, according to Kant, if all nations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
were republics as he prescribes, then war will be eliminated. However,
Kant’s assent to “democratic peace theory” is qualified because he does
not think being republican by itself is not enough assure peace. That
is why he proposes the “league of peace.” Republicanism is part of the
solution but not all of it. On this he is in agreement with the Bahá’í
Writings.
It should be noted that we must be careful not to interpret Kant’s
republicanism as identical to democracy. Universal suffrage, a sine
qua non for modern democracy is not even mentioned in “Perpetual
Peace”; indeed, Kant is “no champion of democratic government”30
in its modern form. He associates democracy as we understand it
with “despotism” (ibid 114) because majority rule—‘the tyranny of
the majority’—threatens individual freedom. As we have seen before,
Kant’s republicanism only requires representative governments in
which the executive and legislative branches are separate. The repre-
sentation need not come from popularly elected representatives.
The Bahá’í Writings agree with Kant that representative govern-
ment is, in the last analysis, the only legitimate form of governance.
However, the Writings differ markedly from Kant in defining
what constitutes a legitimate government. Unlike Kant, they show
preference for popular democracy. Bahá'u'lláh states that although “a
republican form of government profiteth all the peoples of the world,” (TB
28) He prefers constitutional monarchy which combines democratic
representative government with monarchy. He writes,
The system of government which the British people have adopted
in London appeareth to be good, for it is adorned with the light
of both kingship and of the consultation of the people. (TB 93)
The British parliamentary system is, of course, a form of democratic
representative government in which the representatives are elected by
popular vote. At the same time, Britain is a constitutional monarchy,

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
i.e. a popularly elected democratic government with a monarch who
is the head of state but does not rule. Actual executive power rests
with a prime minister who, as head of the government, rules in the
name of the monarch who is the titular head of state and has largely
ceremonial functions.
`Abdu’l-Bahá clearly supports democratic i.e. free and consultative
forms of government:
Consider what a vast difference exists between modern democ-
racy and the old forms of despotism. Under an autocratic
government the opinions of men are not free, and development
is stifled, whereas in democracy, because thought and speech are
not restricted, the greatest progress is witnessed. It is likewise
true in the world of religion. When freedom of conscience, liberty
of thought and right of speech prevail—that is to say, when every
man according to his own idealization may give expression to
his beliefs—development and growth are inevitable. (PUP 197
emphasis added)
`Abdu’l-Bahá portrays “modern democracy” positively and associates
it with “the greatest progress.” The “old forms of despotism,” whether
secular or religious, hinder progress and development by stifling free
thought and expression. `Abdu’l-Bahá stresses the importance of
freedom elsewhere too. He makes freedom the third of the ‘seven
candles of unity’ and, in his introduction to the seven candles, indi-
vidual freedom is the underlying condition which makes peace and
unity possible. (SWAB 31) For example, he mentions the freedom
to travel and communicate, to associate without hindrance, and to
exchange viewpoints and beliefs. Because of these freedoms and the
interdependence they encourage, “the unity of all mankind can in this
day be achieved.” (PUP 197) Here, too, we observe how closely freedom,
democracy and progress are connected in the Bahá’í world-view. The
Bahá’í International Community makes a similar point, stating that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
democracy is among the chief characteristics that ensures human
progress.31 Indeed, grassroots democracy is an integral part of the
Bahá’í Faith’s internal structure as seen for example in the Feast
which “combines religious worship with grassroots governance and
social development.”32 Thus, the Feast is an arena of democracy at
the very root of society"33 and in that sense, of the Bahá’í social order.
However, in reflecting on the subject of democracy it is important to
keep in mind Shoghi Effendi’s statement that
No form of democratic government; no system of autocracy
or of dictatorship, whether monarchical or republican; no
intermediary scheme of a purely aristocratic order; nor even
any of the recognized types of theocracy… none of these can
be identified or be said to conform with the Administrative
Order which the master-hand of its perfect Architect has
fashioned… It blends and harmonizes, as no government
fashioned by mortal hands has as yet accomplished, the
salutary truths which each of these systems undoubtedly
contains without vitiating the integrity of those God-given
verities on which it is ultimately founded. (WOB 152)
The future Bahá’í Administrative Order will incorporate the posi-
tive aspects of the various forms of government without “introducing
within its machinery any of the objectionable features which they
inherently possess.” (ibid) Indeed, Shoghi Effendi explicitly states
that “The Administrative Order of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh must in
no wise be regarded as purely democratic in character” (ibid) because
“democracies depend fundamentally upon getting their mandate from
the people.”. (ibid) Shoghi Effendi’s words strongly suggest that democ-
racy, while invaluable in the progress of human development, is not
the end-station in regards to humankind’s socio-political evolution.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
The Writings also associate progress and peace. `Abdu’l-Bahá says:
God has chosen you for the purpose of investigating reality and
promulgating international peace; God has chosen you for the
progress and development of humanity (PUP 434).
Elsewhere he says,
Bigotry and dogmatic adherence to ancient beliefs have become
the central and fundamental source of animosity among men,
the obstacle to human progress, the cause of warfare and strife,
the destroyer of peace, composure and welfare in the world.
(PUP 439)
The reason for associating progress and peace is clear: unless people
today progress beyond the “old order” (PB ix) and its restricted
beliefs, attitudes, world-view and ways of thinking and acting, we
shall be stuck with its political, religious, cultural and economic
hostilities. If we cannot move beyond the “old order” we shall be
trapped within it and its constantly erupting wars as we have been
in the 20th Century. This, in turn, undermines all other positive
human developments or progress.
The foregoing argument makes it clear that “Perpetual Peace” and
the Bahá’í Writings converge on an “inside-out”34 approach to
international relation insofar as they both link the internal, politi-
cal constitution of a state to its external relations. Each sees the
establishment of representative and republican government as con-
ducive to peace, although the Writings differ from Kant inasmuch as
they require democratic representative government. Both also agree
that representative government, while necessary, is not sufficient to
guarantee peace which is why Kant proposes a “league of peace” and
the Bahá’í Writings some form of a global tribunal.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
However, unlike Kant, the Bahá’í Writings outline various vital
peace-building measures necessary to ensuring peace in the phase of
the Lesser Peace and its fruition in the Most Great Peace. In our view,
the most fundamental teaching to eliminate conflict is recognizing the
essential unity of humankind. Without a deep commitment to this
idea, i.e. a commitment so strong it will over-ride cultural, national,
ethnic, class, economic, religious and political barriers, there is no
realistic hope of establishing a durable peace. We must learn to make
loyalty to humanity our prime—though not only loyalty—and to
realize that the best way to serve our own nation or sub-group is by
serving the good of the humankind as a whole. As long as we fail to
shift our primary loyalty to humanity we will continue to be divided
along lines that sooner or later fracture into hostilities. The reason
why is clear: a primary loyalty to humankind limits the influence of
narrower national, ethnic, religious or other interests on our world-
view and decision-making. Or, to put it in pragmatic terms, until the
good of all as opposed to the good of some becomes the primary goal
of global action, we cannot rationally expect to achieve and maintain
peace. Anything less inevitably pits some against others and re-creates
situations that undermine peace and facilitate war. Moreover, until
human beings inwardly identify themselves with all other humans,
i.e. until our identity as humans trumps all other identities, we can-
not create a mental and spiritual condition that is prepared to make
the sacrifices necessary for global peace. To use a sports expression,
everyone must be willing to “take one for the team.” In support of
this psycho-spiritual condition, the Writings frequently mention the
importance of sacrifice. (PUP 130) As Bahá'u'lláh says, “Let not a man
glory in this, that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that he
loves his kind… ” (PB viii) Such a shift in our scale of loyalties is an
absolute sine qua non for the elimination of war.
To support the contention that realizing the oneness of humankind
is essential to peace, the Bahá’í Writings provide two ways in which

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
humankind is essentially one. The first of these is the universal pos-
session of a “rational soul.” (SAQ 208)
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal is
the rational soul, and these two names—the human spirit and
the rational soul—designate one thing. This spirit, which in the
terminology of the philosophers is the rational soul, embraces
all beings, and as far as human ability permits discovers the
realities of things. (SAQ 208)
This may be understood from a secular and spiritual perspective.
From a perspective of secular philosophical anthropology, this
statement asserts that rationality is the distinguishing feature of
all human beings. Regardless of culture, historical time or circum-
stances, all humans possess the power of rational thought which
allows them to discover the truth about reality and reason abstractly.
(SAQ 187–188) Even a cursory glance at human achievement shows
that humans possess rationality to such an overwhelming extent that
we are, in effect, different in kind from animals. In other words, there
is a uniquely characterized human nature that we all share 35—and
this human nature is one of the foundation stones of human unity. Of
course, this single human nature with its countless potentials can be
expressed in different ways in different times and circumstances. But
in the last analysis, it is always a clearly recognizable human expres-
sion. The oneness of humankind is also observable at the physical
level; humans share a fundamentally identical physiology so that doc-
tors trained in one part of the world can practice medicine in another.
There are some physiological differences but these are accidentals
adhering to an essential or universal identity.
Furthermore, it is possible to take a spiritual perspective on the con-
cept of the rational soul. The rational soul is the basis for our spiritual
lives since it sets us free from an animal captivity to the senses and
allows us to reason not only about physical, natural phenomena but

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
also about non-physical beings like God, gods and ultimate powers,
as well as revelation, the soul, Manifestations and spirituality in
general. Consequently, the universality of religion and the efforts
to understand and explain non-physical reality provides additional
evidence for the universality of human nature and the rational soul.
The Writings also offer a purely spiritual reason for accepting the
oneness of humanity: we are all the creations or children of God.
`Abdu'l-Bahá says, “Look upon the whole human race as members of one
family, all children of God; and, in so doing, you will see no difference
between them.” (PT 170) Elsewhere he states,
each individual member of the human family is a leaf or branch
upon the Adamic tree; that all are sheltered beneath the pro-
tecting mercy and providence of God; that all are the children
of God, fruit upon the one tree of His love. God is equally
compassionate and kind to all the leaves, branches and fruit of
this tree. Therefore, there is no satanic tree whatever—Satan
being a product of human minds and of instinctive human
tendencies toward error. (PUP 230)
And again,
therefore must all souls become as one soul, and all hearts as one
heart. Let all be set free from the multiple identities that were
born of passion and desire, and in the oneness of their love for
God find a new way of life. (SWAB 76)
Our ‘humanity’ must be our only over-arching identity, which, while
including others, has priority over them. However, we are not to lose
our identities: rather, we are to become “as” one soul and “as” one heart,”
i.e. distinct but harmonized by one supreme identity. The mandate
of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation is to let this essential oneness of human-
kind achieve outward expression in the lives of individuals, societies

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
and the world in general. We should cease indulging in a fetishism
of artificial, man-made barriers, and seek ways to make differences
work together, or, if necessary, rid ourselves of them altogether. As
Bahá’u’lláh says, “He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in
His heart the desire of beholding the entire human race as one soul and
one body.” (GWB 213 emphasis added) He also says,
If any man were to meditate on that which the Scriptures, sent
down from the heaven of God’s holy Will, have revealed, he
would readily recognize that their purpose is that all men shall
be regarded as one soul, so that the seal bearing the words “The
Kingdom shall be God’s” may be stamped on every heart (GWB
259 emphasis added).
In our interpretation, the injunction to regard each other as “one soul
and one body” means that we must work together, cooperatively, as
the human body and soul work together to engender a unified living
being. Consequently, we must set aside all accidental differences that
hinder laboring together on the common project of building peace.
(Diversities that do not prevent us from working together are a differ-
ent matter.) In other words, we must work organically, with each part
in its own way supporting every other part. Applied to the planet as
a whole, this means that we must not only be unified physically or by
material means but also spiritually, as in “one common faith.” (SAQ 65)
These statements from the Writings make it clear that the oneness of
humankind must be transformed form a fine sentiment for ceremo-
nial occasions into a robust, universally applied principle that informs
thoughts, feelings and actions both in individuals and collectives. For
peace to be enduring instead of temporary, we must cease to think,
feel and act as if race, religion, nationality or class constituted essen-
tial differences among humans instead of being mere accidentals.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” does not include the inherent oneness
of humankind as part of its foundations for a durable peace. It is
mentioned neither explicitly nor implicitly. The closest he comes to
this idea is his concept of “cosmopolitan right” (Kant 1983, 118) or
“universal hospitality.” (ibid) Kant claims that “the right to visit, to
associate, belongs to all men by virtue of their common ownership of
the earth’s surface.” (ibid) He then adds that “the idea of cosmopoli-
tan right” is part of an “unwritten code of national and international
rights, necessary to the rights of men in general.” (ibid 119) In other
words, for Kant the oneness of humankind is chiefly a juridical mat-
ter established by governments and diplomats i.e. by fiat, in sharp
contrast to the Bahá’í concept of a natural oneness based on human
nature and a spiritual oneness based on the Fatherhood of God. The
problem with a juridical oneness is that laws can be unmade according
to the willfulness of rulers and governments. Consequently, such a
concept is weak and, thereby, a poor foundation for a lasting peace. It
does not serve Kant’s purposes well. On the other hand, a concept of
oneness based on human nature cannot be undone by sheer willfulness
or political action; it is an empirical fact of nature and will assert
itself through any attempt to deny or suppress it. Nor is our status as
divine creations subject to human will. Therefore, the Bahá’í concept
of the oneness of humankind is more solidly grounded than Kant’s
concept of human oneness insofar as we find one in “Perpetual Peace.”
Another key principle of peace-building is the elimination of the
extremes of wealth and poverty. `Abdu’l-Bahá states, “The fourth
principle or teaching of Bahá’u’lláh is the readjustment and equalization
of the economic standards of mankind.” (PUP 107) Kant’s “Perpetual
Peace” says nothing about this vital topic or even about economic
reform in general as a necessary part of building an enduring peace.
For that reason alone, belief that his proposals are sufficient to
establish a permanent peace is not justified. The “maldistribution
of wealth”36 inevitably undermines both domestic and international
stability and unity (COL 25) especially in an age when global

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
communications make it impossible to hide the enormous dispari-
ties in wealth. This sets the stage for war.
This readjustment of the social economy is of the greatest
importance inasmuch as it ensures the stability of the world of
humanity; and until it is effected, happiness and prosperity
are impossible.( PUP 181 emphasis added)
When, for example, a small portion of the world’s people use up half
or more of the world’s resources, we would be foolish to expect a
lasting peace. The immense suffering and consequent anger caused
by such gross inequalities undermines peace in two ways. First, it
destabilizes countries internally as various groups scramble for what
little wealth is left and/or violent revolutions erupt and second, it
destabilizes international relations as internal conflicts affect sur-
rounding nations and political opportunism exacerbates problem
through foreign involvement. Even a cursory glace at the history of
the 20th century reveals how all of these scenarios can unfold and
unbalance large portions of the world.
While the Bahá’í Writings recognize that reasonable economic and
social differences are based on natural variations of ability and tem-
perament, they also teach that these variations do not justify exces-
sive disparities of income. Shoghi Effendi sums up the Bahá’í position
by saying, “Extremes of wealth and poverty should… be abolished.”
(DG 20) Sympathy for the less fortunate is one reason: “Is it possible
that, seeing one of his fellow-creatures starving, destitute of everything, a
man can rest and live comfortably in his luxurious mansion?” (SAQ 276)
However, `Abdu’l-Bahá gives another reason:
[e]very human being has the right to live; they have a right to
rest, and to a certain amount of well-being. As a rich man is
able to live in his palace surrounded by luxury and the greatest

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
comfort, so should a poor man be able to have the necessaries of
life. Nobody should die of hunger; everybody should have suf-
ficient clothing; one man should not live in excess while another
has no possible means of existence. (PT 131–132 emphasis
added)
It is important to notice the “rights” language, used by `Abdu’l-Bahá.
This language implies that people have an innate and irrevocable
claim to the basic “necessities of life” solely by virtue of being human.
Conversely, this implies that society has at least some obligation to
provide people the opportunity to attain their basic requirements.
(Precisely how this is to be done, is, of course, a matter of intense
debate and cannot be discussed here.) `Abdu’l-Bahá describes
extreme disparity of wealth as “the height of iniquity” and adds that
“no just man can accept it.” (SAQ 273) By implication, no just society
can accept it either. The importance of this issue is emphasized by
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s insistence on economic justice for workers. In order to
“regulate the excessive fortunes of certain private individuals and meet the
needs of millions of the poor masses” (ibid)
laws and regulations should be established which would permit
the workmen to receive from the factory owner their wages and
a share in the fourth or the fifth part of the profits, according
to the capacity of the factory; or in some other way the body
of workmen and the manufacturers should share equitably the
profits and advantages. (ibid)
To counteract these injustices, `Abdu’l-Bahá establishes the principle
of wage and profit-sharing as a way of preventing an undue and exces-
sive concentration of wealth which exacerbates tensions and hostilities
within and among countries. He also teaches a just redistribution of
wealth must include provisions for old age as well as what we today
call a ‘progressive income tax’: “taxation will be proportionate to capacity
and production and there will be no poor in the community.” (FWU 37)

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
At this point, it is very important to issue a caveat that the Writings
must not be associated with communism in regards to income distri-
bution. `Abdu’ l-Bahá makes it clear that
absolute equality is just as impossible, for absolute equality in
fortunes, honors, commerce, agriculture, industry would end
in disorderliness, in chaos, in disorganization of the means of
existence, and in universal disappointment: the order of the
community would be quite destroyed. (SAQ 273)
The unfortunate history of communism in Eastern Europe and
Russia proves the truth of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s warnings on this matter.
Thus, the Writings accept some differences in wealth as natural, but
do not accept that these differences should be allowed to emiserate
large portions of humankind. Moreover, the 20th century saw how
destabilizing gross maldistribution of wealth can be. For example,
though it eventually morphed into something else, the Russian Rev-
olution of 1917 was a reaction against the extreme concentrations
of wealth and the subsequent emiseration of much of humanity. Its
destabilizing effects were felt throughout the rest of the century. It
is simply unrealistic to expect an enduring peace within or among
nations without decisively remedying this underlying injustice
which distorts and destroys the lives of countless human beings.
In addition to legal reforms, the Writings in addition to making vol-
untary donations also offer another way to achieve the appropriate
adjustment of wealth: the law of Huqúqu’ lláh. This law—which has
many detailed provisions—provides a way of calculating a payment
made of a percentage of one’s increase in wealth, beyond what is
essentially needed, to a special Fund at the Universal House of Jus-
tice for humanitarian services. The prime purpose of Huqúqu’ lláh is
“the elimination of extremes of wealth and poverty, and a more equitable
distribution of resources.” (PUP 102) In other words, obeying this law
is one way in which virtually everyone can contribute to the laying

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
the foundations of world peace. The law of Huqúqu’ lláh fosters
the spiritual maturity needed to make people voluntarily accept the
moderation of wealth, a new attitude that is itself a necessary part of
the economic foundations of a lasting peace. Unless people evolve to
find satisfaction and purpose in things other than the accumulation
of wealth, the innate competitiveness of material, economic pursuits
will continue to destabilize the intra-and-inter-national scene.
In the Bahá’í teachings, another necessary foundation stone for
establishing and maintaining an enduring peace is the essential
oneness of religion. Religion has always played an important role
in human existence and, therefore, must be included in any seri-
ous plan for changes in international relations. No other social
phenomenon in history has shown itself as potent in transforming
large numbers of people as religion, a fact which suggests that Kant’s
plan to establish a “perpetual peace” without religion simply ignores
human nature and is, thereby, unrealistic. Moreover, as `Abdu’
l-Bahá points out, “It has been the basis of all civilization and progress
in the history of mankind.” (PUP 361) Without including the potency
of religion, it is highly doubtful that rationally based political plans
for world peace will be successful.
However, religions can only fulfill their role as an agent of perpetual
peace if they cease to promote divisions among humankind and
decide to work in unity on the basis of their essential principles which
are identical. `Abdu’l-Bahá, sums up this position quite succinctly:
“Truth is one in all religions, and by means of it the unity of the world
can be realized.” (PT 129) By ‘religion’ the Writings mean “the essen-
tial foundation or reality of religion, not the dogmas and blind imitations
which… are inevitably destructive.” (PUP 363) Because the “essence of
all religions is the Love of God, and… is the foundation of all the sacred
teachings,” (PT 82) religion, or at least, religion in its original intent,
is necessary for an enduring peace. When religions return to their

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
essential truth, they, not man-made philosophical concepts, will unify
humanity Bahá’u’lláh declares,
O ye children of men! The fundamental purpose animating the
Faith of God and His Religion is to safeguard the interests and
promote the unity of the human race, and to foster the spirit
of love and fellowship amongst men. (GWB 215 emphasis
added)
In a similar vein, `Abdu’l-Bahá states, “The central purpose of the divine
religions is the establishment of peace and unity among mankind.” (PUP
98) “[U]nity is the essential truth of religion.” (PUP 32)
The need for religion as a ‘partner for peace’ illustrates the need for a
unifying world-view, or, as `Abdu’l-Bahá states it, the need for “unity
of thought in world undertakings.” (SWAB 32) If we are to have genuine
peace, we must have effective cooperation, and effective cooperation
requires a common framework of thought and action, i.e. a common
world-view. This common world-view provides, among other things,
the ultimate purpose for which we act; the allowable means by which
we may act to achieve those goals; the terms in which to analyze and
evaluate situations; the guidelines for planning, prioritizing and
coordinating action. Furthermore, if different nations and/or cul-
tures are to work together effectively, they need a set of “core values…
which are sought to be maintained.”37 Without such a set of “core
values” participants will have neither goals to aspire to nor standards
by which to judge their efforts; in effect, they would be ‘flying blind.’
These values also provide the moral legitimacy to enlist popular sup-
port. In addition, they provide the “unity of conscience”38 needed
to motivate people intellectually, emotionally and spiritually, i.e. to
awaken and energize the complete human being. Without all these
advantages provided by a coherent world-view, our efforts to achieve
peace will be half-efforts at best and counter-productive at worst.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” does not, of course, promulgate anything like
the essential oneness of all religions. This is a major short-coming
that the Bahá’í Writings remedy. However, Kant does recognize the
need for a unifying world-view or framework of thought to establish
a genuine peace. As stated in “Perpetual Peace,” for Kant the necessary
harmony of thought is based on a universal ethical and juridical unity
based on the concept of ‘right.’ According to Kant, “All politics must
bend its knee before morality” (Kant 1983, 131) or “the right” (ibid
128) by which he means that politics must be guided by morality or
‘the right’ and not by expedience or any consideration of results. This
holds true both for individuals and nations.
Men can no more escape the concept of right in their private
relations than in their public ones; nor can they openly risk
basing their politics on the handiwork of prudence alone, and,
consequently they cannot altogether refuse obedience to the
concept of public right (which is particularly important in the
case of international right). (ibid 131)
‘Right’ applies to all human activities, including politics because the
concept of ‘right’ takes precedence over all other considerations. Con-
sequently, he is able to say, “The rights of men must be held sacred,
however great the cost of sacrifice may be to those in power.” (ibid
135) The alternative to such strict principles is social and political
anarchy because actions will no longer be guided by a universal rule.
Rulers and nations will simply do whatever is convenient. Without
such law, how are we to judge actions or insist on certain standards?
For Kant, ‘right’ itself derives “from the ought, whose principle
is given a priori through pure reason” (ibid 134) which means that
‘ought’ and ‘right’ are determined by reason alone and not by expedi-
ency, prudence, desirability or consideration of consequences. ‘Ought’
and ‘right’ have an “unconditioned necessity,” (ibid 132) i.e. the ‘ought’
and its resulting ‘right’ are applicable regardless of results or wishes.
Kant approvingly quotes the dictum, “Let justice reign, even if all the

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
rogues in the world should perish.” (ibid 133) Summing up his ideas,
he says, “Seek first the kingdom of pure practical reason and its righ-
teousness and your end [Zweck] (the blessing of perpetual peace) will
come to you of itself.” (ibid)
More specifically, actions are ‘right’ if they conform to the categorical
imperative (CI) which for Kant has uncontested universal validity.
Kant does not specifically explicate the CI in “Perpetual Peace” but
make use of it in his arguments as shall see. In its first form, the CI
states, “Act as if the maxim of your action were to become through
your will a universal law of nature.”39 In other words, if we do some-
thing we should agree that everyone else should do the same thing
in the same circumstances. For example, if we choose to act on the
principle of ‘destroy your enemies,’ we would soon realize that every-
one—ourselves included—would eventually be destroyed because
everyone is somebody’s enemy. The irrational, suicidal nature of the
act is immediately clear. Analogous results follow if we apply Kant’s
CI to lying, stealing, cheating or being lazy, to name only a few.
Social existence would quickly become unworkable. “Perpetual Peace”
applies the first form of the CI to nations, which, he says do not have
the right to go to war
because it is then a law of deciding what is right by unilateral
maxims through force and not by universally valid public
laws which restrict the freedom of everyone.40
Even states must behave in such a way that its acts may become uni-
versal law instead of being arbitrary and special-pleading. The latter
is a logical fallacy and inimical to Kant’s rationalism.
The other form of the CI asserts that we should always treat all humans
as if they were ends-in-themselves and never as means to serve the
purpose of another’s will.41 In “Perpetual Peace” Kant refers to this
form of the CI in his objection to standing armies, i.e. paying men

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
to kill or be killed is to “use them as mere machines and tools in the
hands of another.” (Kant 1983, 108) It violates their right to be ends-
in-themselves. (The whole modern theory of human rights grows out
of this aspect of Kant’s work.) If we treat others as ‘means’ to satisfy
our will, then others are logically entitled to treat us as ‘means’ too—a
situation which rapidly makes personal and collective life unworkable.
Special pleading or making ourselves an exception from either form
of the categorical imperative traps us in a logical inconsistency, i.e. in
irrationality, which violates our nature as rational beings.
Both Kant and the Bahá’í Writings endorse treating human being
as end-in-themselves and not merely as a means or tool to be used to
the advantage of another. The Writings state this in two ways. The
first is through the teaching that we must love all human beings; to
love another person is to value him in-himself, to see him as an end-
in-himself, as a ‘Thou.’ There is no meaningful sense of separation or
limitation to such love.42 Of course, the Bahá’í Writings express this
in a theological form as in the following:
Like the sun, let them [“the loved ones of the Lord”] cast their
rays upon garden and rubbish heap alike, and even as clouds
in spring, let them shed down their rain upon flower and thorn.
(SAQ 257)
Another way of stating that all humans are ends-in-themselves is to
say we are made in the image of God and that “Inasmuch as all were
created in the image of God, we must bring ourselves to realize that all
embody divine possibilities.” (PUP 113) Consequently, all persons are
valuable in-themselves as unique, distinctive and irreplaceable images
of the divine and must be treated as ends-in-themselves. Because they
recognize that everyone is an end-in-himself, the Writings implicitly
acknowledge that the rules of behaviour we apply to ourselves must
be applicable by all insofar as we are all equally images of God. This
agrees with the first form of the categorical imperative.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
5 Why Religion and not “Reason Alone”?
The foregoing discussion leads to an important question vis-à-vis
Bahá’u’lláh’s and Kant’s plans for world peace: Why choose religion
over philosophy as a unifying world-view? Or, to put it another way,
what does religion to offer the quest for world peace that philosophy
lacks? To answer these and related questions, it is necessary to exam-
ine Kant’s proposal in the light of recent history.
According to Kant and the Bahá’í Writings, humans are essentially
rational by nature. In other words, rational behavior and thought
is more appropriate to our essential nature than irrational behavior
though although we still have free will to act irrationally. Again, this
is not specifically explicated in “Perpetual Peace” but underlies its
arguments. That is why Kant says, for example, that we look down
on those who prefer a senseless and lawless, “mad freedom to a ratio-
nal one,” (Kant 1983, 115) which restrains “the depravity of human
nature.” (ibid 116) The Bahá’í Writings assert that “[t]he human spirit
which distinguishes man from the animal is the rational soul, and these
two names—the human spirit and the rational soul—designate one thing.”
(SAQ 208) What Kant calls the “depravity of human nature,” they
refer to as our “animal nature” (PUP 41) which we must overcome in
order to live up to our distinctly human and rational potentials. Of
course, we must recall that in the Writings, the rational soul requires
the assistance of “the spirit of faith” (SAQ 208) in order to “become
acquainted with the divine secrets and heavenly realities.” (ibid) Conse-
quently reason is not fully independent in regards to ethical teachings
which are ultimately grounded in a transcendental God. Reason may
prove the validity of these teachings, but proof alone is not authority
of which God is the ultimate source. Kant does not recognize any
need for such assistance because he denies that we can ever know the
transcendental, noumenal or “heavenly realities.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Despite our rational nature, humans do not always act rationally. At
least some leaders do not care about logical inconsistency in their
actions if they can get what they want by acting irrationally. They are
not impressed by the universality of the CI, and are quite prepared
to indulge in special pleading for themselves. They are willing to
‘take their chances’ and are agreeable to other leaders doing the same,
thereby, ironically fulfilling Kant’s dictum that we must be willing to
see our behavior universalized. Then, there are other motives to act
irrationally—such as a belief in national destiny or in a certain ideol-
ogy or even a belief in ‘war hygiene’ as to weed out the weak and unfit.
In the 20th century, humankind has witnessed all of these motives at
work. Consequently, it is clear that leaders must intentionally choose
to be reasonable in their domestic and international dealings. That
means they must be willing to sacrifice certain advantages for the
sake of reason and rational morality. They must willingly forego the
freedom to exploit another nation’s weakness or natural misfortune,
to pass up an opportunity to form an advantageous alliance or to
acquire new territory or to weaken a political or economic rival. But
why would they want to do so? What fundamental attitude would
encourage them to make such a choice?
Given the historical record, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that
while rationality is necessary to peace-building, it is by no means suf-
ficient. What is needed is something that can motivate humans to
want to apply reason, to want to be rationally consistent and to want
to value themselves and others. “Perpetual Peace” explains how reason
can help us do these things in political action but it does not provide
a motivation to actively desire to do them, especially when it is to our
advantage to ignore them. What can fill this gap?
What is needed is not a purely intellectual idea but rather, an
existential attitude or stance towards humankind, the world, the
Not-me, the stranger, the ‘Other.’. It must be something that does
not rely only on calculative reasoning about gain and loss, ‘mine and

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
thine’ or ‘friend and foe.’ It must also not simply be rational but trans-
rational, i.e. not just an idea but an idea with personal and collective
transformative power. In other words, it cannot only be objective but
must have a subjective aspect as well so that it really touches people’s
hearts because ideas that do not touch the heart, no matter how well
conceived they may be, can atrophy all too easily. There must not only
be a new world-view, but there must also be a new world-feeling, a
deep, personal and subjective sense of connection to all peoples and
a commitment to their future together. Purely intellectual agree-
ment is not enough to bring about a new way of being-in-the-world.
`Abdu’l-Bahá makes this clear when he says,
the Holy Spirit unites nations and removes the cause of war-
fare and strife. It transforms mankind into one great family
and establishes the foundations of the oneness of humanity. It
promulgates the spirit of international agreement and insures
universal peace. (FWU 85)
His reference to the family taps one of the strongest and deepest
subjective experiences of love known to humankind. Applying
these feelings to humanity would go a long way in establishing
genuine peace.
The lack of such a trans-rational and transformative element in “Per-
petual Peace” is only one of the decisive differences between Kant and
the Writings. Unlike the Bahá’í Writings, Kant does not consider
this topic at all, apparently believing that political and diplomatic
action within the current framework is sufficient to reach his goal.
He neglects the need for personal and intellectual transformation in
both populations whose views must be represented and in diplomats
and politicians who must craft and carry out agreements. After all,
both these groups have had their thinking and feeling shaped by the
competitive Westphalian nation-state system with its emphasis on
absolute national sovereignty. Perhaps his proposals lay the objective

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
foundations for peace but overlook the equally necessary subjective
pre-conditions for peace.
According to the Bahá’í Writings, the motivation to adopt the way of
being-in-the-world needed to establish and maintain a lasting peace,
must come from love. As Bahá’u’lláh says, “Let not a man glory in this,
that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his
kind… ” (PB viii) `Abdu’l-Bahá explains why this is so:
God alone is Creator, and all are creatures of His might.
Therefore, we must love mankind as His creatures, realizing
that all are growing upon the tree of His mercy, servants of
His omnipotent will and manifestations of His good pleasure.
(PUP 230)
Elsewhere he says,
My admonition and exhortation to you is this: Be kind to all
people, love humanity, consider all mankind as your relations
and servants of the most high God… God has created all, and
all return to God. Therefore, love humanity with all your heart
and soul. (PUP 290–291)
Bahá’u’lláh identifies the ultimate goal, saying, “He Who is your
Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in His heart the desire of beholding the
entire human race as one soul and one body.” (GWB 214) This univer-
sal love is based on the fatherhood of God: “God is the Father of all”
(PUP 266) regardless of our worldly circumstances or spiritual state.
According to `Abdu’l-Bahá, “we are the servants of one God, that we
turn to one beneficent Father, live under one divine law, seek one reality
and have one desire.” (PUP 66) With an outlook of universal love, we
naturally approach others with goodwill, and desire to treat them as
ends-in-themselves instead of means, and want such treatment to be
the universal standard of behavior. `Abdu’l-Bahá states,

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
The third virtue of humanity is the goodwill which is the basis
of good actions. Certain philosophers have considered intention
superior to action, for the goodwill is absolute light; it is purified
and sanctified from the impurities of selfishness, of enmity, of
deception. Now it may be that a man performs an action which
in appearance is righteous, but which is dictated by covetous-
ness… But the goodwill is sanctified from such impurities.
(SAQ 301 emphasis added)
With universal goodwill as a foundation for their actions, humans are
inwardly transformed so that humans will choose to act rightly not
from a sense of duty or fear or logical consistency but from an inner
want to do the right thing, a want to apply the categorical imperative
to their dealings with others. With goodwill, each person chooses to
be his ‘brother’s keeper,’ and has a sense of “ultimate concern” for the
well-being of others. Goodwill effects an inward character transfor-
mation that simply cannot be replaced by any outward regulations
no matter how detailed they are. When goodwill is the basis of diplo-
macy, problems like deception, secrecy and under-handed methods—
all mentioned in “Perpetual Peace”—disappear not because of formal
treaties, concerns about logical consistency or notions of duty, but
because with goodwill, diplomats lack the desire to commit such
acts. Moreover, with goodwill, their peoples no longer expect them
to indulge in perfidy for the sake of the ‘national good.’
We know this from history: without genuine love and goodwill, dip-
lomats will be free to support treaties as long as it suits their interests
to do so. The 1929 Kellogg-Briand treaty is an example. All future
instigators and participant of W.W. II renounced war, yet Kellogg-
Briand was not enough to restrain the unscrupulous. Clearly, true
restraint must come from within and must be borne of deep conviction,
i.e. must come from transformation of character and a new way of
being-in-the-world. Insofar as they neglect this aspect of achieving
“perpetual peace,” Kant’s proposals are inadequate to their task.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
It may be objected that the whole project of “Perpetual Peace” as well
as the second form of Kant’s categorical imperative, i.e. the injunction
of treating others as ends and not means already covers the issue
of goodwill. Indeed, Kant seems to give implicit recognition to the
importance of goodwill by enshrining rules against secret clauses
(Kant 1983, 107) and dishonest tactics. (ibid 109) One problem, of
course, is that a diplomat may sign any number of such protocols
without sincere goodwill. “A man may smile and smile and be a
villain.”43 Moreover, diplomatic and political means, while necessary
in establishing and maintaining a durable international peace, are
not sufficient to guarantee the required universal goodwill. Leaders
and governments, and with them, policies and attitudes, inevitably
change. The decisive fact is that Kant does not specifically identify
and develop goodwill or love as crucial components in “Perpetual
Peace”; he seems to think that the outer restraints provided by treaties,
agreements and purely rational agreements can create and maintain
peace without any character transformation.
Another issue is the problem of “the transcendent.”44 Put in its starkest
terms, the difficulty revolves around the question, ‘Can we achieve
perpetual peace by means of immanent reason alone?’ Immanent
reason rejects any suggestion of the transcendent, i.e. God, as a neces-
sary factor in the quest for peace and confines itself to the phenom-
enal realm. 45 However, if perpetual peace has no better and more
authoritative grounding than human reason, then sooner or later this
peace will be challenged by another idea. Perhaps a belief will arise
that war is good hygiene for the nation and species, that it rids us
of the weak and unfit and establishes the natural dominance of the
biological and intellectually stronger. If ideas have no other author-
ity than themselves, who is to say if this last alternative is wrong or
evil? All we can do is argue on the basis of yet another idea which
also has its authority only in itself. Thus, we are caught in an infinite
regress making a solution impossible—and this is a situation which
makes perpetual peace an unlikely prospect. If immanent reason is

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
insufficient to serve as a foundation of goodwill and peace, then we
are at least obliged to examine the alternatives.
According to `Abdu'l-Bahá, there is good evidence to reject immanent
reason as sufficient. Kant’s proposals operate within the framework
of what `Abdu'l-Bahá calls “material civilization” (PUP 11) which
pertains to scientific, technical, economic, government, law and so
on. However, as `Abdu’l-Bahá points out, and, as we have learned in
the 20th century, even a high degree of material civilization is no sure
bulwark against barbarism:
Progress and barbarism go hand in hand, unless material civi-
lization be confirmed by Divine Guidance, by the revelations
of the All-Merciful and by godly virtues, and be reinforced by
spiritual conduct… Therefore, this civilization and material
progress should be combined with the Most Great Guidance
(SWAB 284).
Elsewhere he adds,
among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is that although material
civilization is one of the means for the progress of the world of
mankind, yet until it becomes combined with Divine civiliza-
tion, the desired result, which is the felicity of mankind, will
not be attained… These battleships that reduce a city… are the
result of material civilization. (SWAB 303)
Immanent reason and its resulting material civilization are unable to
deliver peace to the world for the next phase of its evolution because
they cannot effect the inner transformation, i.e. the universal love
and goodwill, needed to bring about peace. Therefore, while neces-
sary, they are not sufficient to reach the goal of an enduring peace.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
This conclusion leads to a new question: ‘What can religion pro-
vide that immanent reason cannot?’ Most obviously, religion can
provide the element of “the transcendent,” i.e. the belief, however
it is articulated, that there exists something beyond the limits of
human perception and ordinary human experience to which we can
and must develop a positive relationship. The universal presence of
belief in the transcendent throughout all known cultures from all
historical times and places, not to mention the strong resurgence
of religious faith after decades of systematic suppression in the
former Soviet Bloc provides irrefutable evidence that belief in the
transcendent is inherent in human nature. 46 Whether this faith is
intellectually sophisticated or not is irrelevant—the need it fulfills is
the same. The transcendent may be called God, gods, the Tao, Brah-
man, the One, the Unknowable or anything else but in each case it
exists beyond the limits of all phenomenal things and finite human
beings. Ideas grounded in “the transcendent,” i.e. ideas that ‘come
from God’ also seem to show a far greater transformative power than
ideas originating from men. `Abdu'l-Bahá confirms this when he says
that the influence of the greatest philosophers comes nowhere close
to the influence of the Manifestations Who are the Spokesmen for
the Transcendent. (PT 164, SAQ 14) The transcendent origin of
their teachings gives these ideas a legitimacy and authority that no
mere human ideas can ever have.
This leads to an interesting line of thought. Even if one does not
believe in the ontological reality of the transcendent, given the vast
power that belief in it clearly has, there are reasons to act as if it
really exists. Why not make use of this idea, since it will always be
a factor in human affairs? Indeed, Kant did something very like this
in The Critique of Practical Reason. Kant discusses “the existence of
God as a postulate of pure, practical reason.”47 According to Kant,
practical reason “must postulate the existence of God, as the neces-
sary condition of the possibility of the summum bonum (an object of
the will which is necessarily connected with the moral legislation of

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
pure reason).”48 Kant’s postulatory theism holds that although we
cannot prove God’s existence speculatively, i.e. by logical argument,
we must, nonetheless, postulate God’s existence as a purely practical
matter, i.e. as the basis of morals. How else can moral injunctions
gain legitimacy and final authority? God is needed because morality
is connected to achieving the greatest good (summum bonum) and it
is only God Who can make this highest good a matter of absolute
moral duty. As Creator of all, He alone has, or could have the ulti-
mate legitimacy and authority to do so. That is why “it is morally
necessary to assume the existence of God.”49 Consequently, on the
basis of Kant’s own work, we can assert that religion bestows a practi-
cal reason for basing the necessity of universal love and goodwill on
the existence of God.
However, Kant does not make use of this religious aspect of his
thought in “Perpetual Peace.” This is a major difference with the
Bahá’í Writings which, of course, completely reject the notion of a
mere “postulatory theism” and recognize God’s ontological reality,
even from a strictly logical standpoint. `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The existence of the Divine Being hath been clearly established,
on the basis of logical proofs, but the reality of the Godhead is
beyond the grasp of the mind. (SWAB 46)
The “Godhead” is unknowable, but the logical necessity for such a
‘Being’ can be known by man within the limits of human experience
and reason. From the foregoing discussion, we may conclude that a
religious approach to establishing and maintaining world peace is
more likely to succeed than a purely rational approach such as taken
by Kant.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
6 The Guarantor Question
Any discussion of world peace inevitably raises the question ‘How can
we be sure this is not just a pipe-dream?’ Kant shows his awareness of
this question when he writes,
Perpetual peace is insured (guaranteed) by nothing less
than that great artist nature… whose mechanical process
makes her purposiveness [Zweckmassigkeit] visibly manifest
permitting harmony to emerge among men through their
discord, even against their wills. (Kant 1983, 116)
In other words, the natural processes of history, including human
conflict, ultimately lead to harmony and peace—even if it is against
our wishes. Such is the purpose of nature. Kant, however, goes even
further, adding
the mechanism of nature, in which self-seeking inclinations
naturally counteract one another in their external relations,
can be used by reason as a means to prepare the way for its
own end, the rule of right, as well as to promote and secure
the nation’s internal and external peace. (ibid 124)
Kant’s idea, which pre-dates Hegel’s “cunning of reason”50 asserts
that reason uses usually conflicting human self-interest as a means to
achieve peace both domestically and externally. In other words, rea-
son itself takes an active role, as if it were a character, in the evolution
towards a perpetual peace. Thus reason takes on a role not unlike
that of a transcendent God, Who guides humankind through the
wilderness of its own errors and evils towards the ultimate promised
land. Through its ‘cunning,’ reason is able to make positive use of our
mistakes, or, as Milton put it in Paradise Lost, reason or God will
“Out of our evil seek to bring forth good.”51

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
As we have seen above, the “rule of right” is intimately connected to
the goal of perpetual peace since, as we have seen before, politics must
be based on “the rule of right” if proper order is to be maintained.
Kant even thinks that war itself is part of the historical process of
evolving towards perpetual peace since “through war she [nature] has
constrained them to establish more or less legal relationships.” (ibid
121) The possibility of war forces humans to organize themselves i.e.
adopt orderly, legal regulation in their national and international
relations (ibid 124) and, thereby, eliminate war itself. Kant also
recognizes the importance of “mutual interest,” (ibid 125) especially
economic mutual interest as a means by which “nature unites[s]
people against violence and war” (ibid) and says,
financial power may be the most reliable in forcing nations
to pursue the noble cause of peace (though not from moral
motives); and whenever war threatens to break out they will
try to head it off through meditation as if they were perma-
nently leagued for this purpose.
Kant seems to recognize that the “league of peace,” its political and
diplomatic treaty and the establishment of “cosmopolitan right”
may be incapable of eliminating war. This reliance on economics is
a de facto admission of the insufficiency of his statement that “All
politics must bend its knee before morality” (ibid 131) or “the right.”52
Moreover, even though Kant believes war “appears to be ingrained in
human nature,” (ibid 123) he maintains that the necessity of survival
will drive human beings in the direction of order, the rule of right
and, ultimately, peace. But, here, too, he argues on the basis of ani-
mal necessity rather than rational right and, thereby, makes his ‘right’
based argument unnecessary. Humanity will attain perpetual peace
with our free and conscious participation or without it. Nature will
compel us to act in the ways that will bring about peace despite our
lack of interest: “in this fashion nature guarantees perpetual peace by
virtue of man’s inclinations to themselves.” (ibid 125)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The problem with this position is obvious both from a Bahá’í and
non-Bahá’í perspective. The natural “mutual interest” common to
humankind has always existed—and yet has been remarkably inef-
fective in eliminating or even limiting war. Our personal survival
and economic needs have not changed for ages; the needs of trade
and finance are fundamentally the same (though now fulfilled in
different ways) and yet war continues, and indeed, is itself a profitable
business. Even class loyalty could not over-ride forces like nationalism
as shown at the start of WW I when socialist deputies—who had
previously sworn to oppose international war in the name of class loy-
alty—everywhere voted in favor of war credits to their governments
in 1914. Moreover, it is difficult to imagine that Kant would not have
known this, given the history of his own time, let alone previous
human history. The inescapable conclusion is that economic motives
are not sufficient to eliminate war. They cannot serve as replacements
for goodwill and love, though they can support the efforts motivated
by goodwill and love.
From the perspective of the Bahá’í Writings, there are several
noteworthy points in Kant’s views. The first, and perhaps most
important, is the introduction of the transcendent as the guarantor
of ultimate peace. “Perpetual Peace” thus gives the place of the tran-
scendent or God to nature, which, according to Kant, has its own
“purposiveness” in letting order, “rule of right” harmony emerge from
conflict. We have already noted how Kant assigns an active role to
reason in transforming human self-interest into an instrument for
peace; reason itself has virtually become an active character in its
own right. Seen in this light, Kant’s proposals surreptitiously rely
on the power of God, the transcendent or a somehow active reason
as a guarantor of ultimate peace no less than the Bahá’í Writings.
This is an area of agreement between them, but it is not, of course, an
intentional agreement since Kant’s whole philosophy rejects invoking
the transcendent in any way. The fact that he invokes God, albeit in
the form of a personified nature, indicates that Kant, too, has found

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
no better way of ‘grounding’ his proposals for a durable peace than
in the transcendent. 53 We have already seen why in the foregoing
discussions on diplomacy and economics.
Kant’s position—at least in effect, though not in intention —is simi-
lar to the Bahá’í position insofar as the guarantor for world peace is
a transcendental power or God. Through His Manifestations, God
has guided humankind through numerous evolutionary stages and
historical circumstances, but always with the theme of unity in mind:
All the divine Manifestations have proclaimed the oneness of
God and the unity of mankind. They have taught that men
should love and mutually help each other in order that they
might progress. Now if this conception of religion be true, its
essential principle is the oneness of humanity. The fundamental
truth of the Manifestations is peace. This underlies all religion,
all justice. (pup 32)
In the Bahá’í vision, God acts through history, i.e. through human
beings and Manifestations living in particular historical circum-
stances; thus, while the theme of love and human unity is always
present, it appears in different forms through the vicissitudes of
history. That is why Bahá’u’lláh says,
Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy wisdom,
and every ordeal the vehicle of Thy providence, no one would
have dared oppose us, though the powers of earth and heaven
were to be leagued against us. (PM 14)
In other words, even the troubles and hostile actions against us serve
God’s purposes. Another prayer emphasizes the same idea, stating
that “All are His servants and all abide by His bidding!” (SWB 217)
The concept that God uses history as a vehicle for the realization of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
His plan is also found in the teachings about the process of world
history. Jeffrey Huffines writes, that the Bahá’í world view
is shaped by the teleological belief in the oneness of humanity
that is at once a cardinal principle and an assertion of the
ultimate goal of human existence on this planet… Bahá’í
theology presupposes a linear flow of history….54
The apparent chaos of historical processes notwithstanding, there is
a goal and purpose at work in history, viz. the unification of human-
kind in the Most Great Peace. This means, in effect, that the goal
of the historical developments we live through is, in the long run, to
bring about the “perpetual peace” both the Bahá’í Writings and Kant
desire. The Bahá’í International Community writes,
The central theme of Bahá'u'lláh's writings is that humanity
is one single race and the day has come for its unification
into one global society. Through an irresistible historical
process, the traditional barriers of race, class, creed, faith
and nation will break down. These forces will, Bahá'u'lláh
said, give birth in time to a new universal civilization. The
crises now afflicting the planet face all its peoples with the
need to accept their oneness and work towards the creation
of a unified global society.55
Of course, in the Bahá’í view, this goal will be achieved through the
power of the Manifestation and religion and not through the power
of immanent reason alone.
Conclusion
The foregoing discussions—and there is still more to be said—dem-
onstrate the untenability of any suggestion that Kant’s “Perpetual

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
Peace” anticipates the Bahá’í vision of a Lesser and Greater Peace
in anything but accidental ways. They are substantially different in
underlying assumptions as well as in what they consider to be the
necessary components of any realistic peace project. In the Bahá’í
Writings, the foundation of peace is made of spiritual principals
such as the Fatherhood of God, the essential oneness of humankind,
justice, the role of the Manifestations and the primacy of love and
goodwill. Political diplomatic and economic factors in addition to
natural self-interest are secondary insofar as they gain their value,
purpose and direction from the spiritual foundations. In Kant, the
situation is virtually reversed. Spiritual factors, if they play any role
at all, do so surreptitiously. Nature is portrayed as having plans and
reason as cunningly turning our self-interest into public benefit.
However, these concessions to the need for the transcendent are
smuggled into Kant’s argument.
These differences notwithstanding, some rapprochement with Kant
is possible, at least from a Bahá’í perspective. Kant’s proposals in
“Perpetual Peace” can be integrated almost in toto into the Bahá’í plan;
none of his articles contradict or undermine the Writings and some
of them, such as the need for representative government and the need
for moral conduct in politics are in clear agreement. Of course, Kant’s
reliance on immanent human reason alone contradicts the Writings,
but this difficulty is mitigated by the recognition that he smuggled in
the transcendent in order to guarantee the workability of his proposals.
Generally, we conclude that Kant’s proposals are better suited to the
process of the Lesser Peace and not to the Most Great Peace which is
based on spiritual principles and developments.
Unfortunately, the converse is not true. “Perpetual Peace” has no place
for many key aspects of the Bahá’í plan, above all for the necessity
of character transformation and the cultivation of love and goodwill
towards all on the basis of recognizing the Fatherhood of God. This
is obviously essential to the Bahá’í plan. From a Bahá’í viewpoint

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
this lack of a religious foundation is a serious weakness in Kant’s
program, if only because religion has historically demonstrated the
power to effect deep and permanent character transformation in
large numbers of people. This transformation may be for good or
bad—but the transformative power of religion is beyond question
and any plan to change humanity without it is self-defeating.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
Bibliography
`Abdu'l-Bahá


Foundations of World Unity. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.

Paris Talks. London: The Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.

Some Answered Questions. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Second Edition. Wilmette: Bahá’í

Publishing Trust, 1982.

Selections from the Writings of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre,


1957.
Adolf, Anthony. Peace: A World History. Cambridge, UK: Polity Press, 2009.
The Báb. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Trans. by Habib Taherzadeh.


Hailfa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Bahador, Babak and Ghanea, Nazila. Processes of the Lesser Peace. Oxford: George


Ronald, 2002.
Bahá'u'lláh.


Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette: Bahá’í  Publishing Trust, 1979.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í  Publishing


Trust, 1976.

Prayers and Meditations from Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í  Publishing


Trust, 1987.

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.

Tablet to Queen Victoria. http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_malikih

The Hidden Words of Bahá'u'lláh (Arabic). Kuala Lumpur:   Bahá’í  Publishing

Trust, 1985.

The Proclamation of Bahá'u'lláh. http://bahai-library.com/writings/bahaullah/pb/
Burchill, Sott et al, editors. Theories of International Relations. London: Palgrave

Macmillan, 1996.
Effendi, Shoghi.

The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.

Directives from the Guardian. http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/se/DG/
Huddleston, John. The Earth is But One Country. London: Bahá’í Publishing


Trust 1980.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Kant, Immanuel.

Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals. Trans. by H.J. Paton. New York:


Harper Torch Books, 1964.

On History. Edited by Lewis Beck. Trans. by Lewis Beck, Robert E. Anchor


and Emil L. Fackenheim. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, 1957.

Perpetual Peace and Other Essays. Trans. by Red Humphries. Indianapolis:


Hackett Publishing Company, 1983.

The Critique of Practical Reason. http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/5683/

pg5683.html
Lerche, Charles O. ed. Healing the Body Politic. Oxford: George Ronald, 2004.
Manuel, Frank E and Fritzie.Utopian Thought in the Western World. Cambridge.
Mass: Harvard University Press, 1979.
Nakhjavani, Ali. “The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace” in Lights of Irfán,
Volume 9. Evanston, IL: Irfán Colloquia, 2008.
Tyson, J. World Peace and World Government. Oxford: George Ronald, 1986.
NOTES
Paper presented at the Irfan Colloquium, May 18–22, 2011 at Bosch Bahá’í
School. This paper is dedicated to my parents, Dr. Frank Kluge and Annaberta
Kluge. The author can be contacted at iankluge@netbistro.com. Additional
material by the author related to this subject can be found at http://www.
bahaiphilosophystudies.com/index.php
Immanuel Kant, Perpetual Peace and Other Essays, translated by Ted
Humphries. Indianapolis, Cambridge: Hackett Publishing, 1983.
also see Kant. On History, edited by Lewis Beck,
Frank E Manuel and Fritzie P. Manuel, Utopian Thought in the Western World,
p. 519.
Anthony Adolf, Peace: A World History, p. 127.
Anthony Adolf, Peace: A World History, p. 127.
See, for example, Shahruz Mohtadi, “Conflict and Harmony Among Nations: The
case for International Trade,” in Chales O Lerche, editor, Healing the Body Politic.
Anthony Adolf, Peace: A World History, p. 127.

The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s “Perpetual Peace”
N.A. Peace Plans of Rousseau , Bentham and Kant. http://www.san.beck.org/
GPJ15-Rousseau,Kant.html
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, Trans. by H.J. Patton, p. 95.
Ali Nakhjavani, “The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace” in Lights of Irfan,
Volume 9, p. 290.
ibid, p. 295.
J Tyson, World Peace and World Government, p. 75.
Ali Nakhjavani, “The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace” in Lights of Irfan,
Volume 9, p. 290.
ibid, p. 295.
ibid, p. 291.
ibid, p. 293.
ibid, p. 295.
ibid, p. 293.
Cheshmak A Farhoumand-Sims and Charles O. Lerche, “Perspectives on Peace
Building,” in Charles O. Lerche editor, Healing the Body Politic, p. 34.
Both the Lesser and Greater Peace have ways of solving these difficulties as we
shall see below.
The Kellogg-Briand Pact, http://avalon.law.yale.edu/20th_century/kbpact.asp
Scott Burchill et al, editor, Theories of International Relations,” p. 61.
Baljit Singh Grewal, Aukland University of Technology, “Johan Galtung: Positive
and Negative Peace.” http://www.activeforpeace.org/no/fred/Positive_Nega-
tive_Peace.pdf
Cheshmak A Farhoumand-Sims and Charles O. Lerche, “Perspectives on Peace
Building,” in Charles O. Lerche editor, Healing the Body Politic, p. 5.
ibid, p. 1.
Scott Burchill et al, editor, Theories of International Relations, p. 62.
ibid, p. 59.
ibid, p. 61.
ibid, p. 61.
Baha’i International Community, 1998 Feb 18, Valuing Spirituality in
Development.
Baha’i International Community, 1992, Magazine—The Baha’is.
ibid

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Scott Burchill et al, editor, Theories of International Relations, p. 59.
See Donald Brown, Human Universals.
John Huddleston, The Earth Is But One Country, p. 8.
Danesh Sarooshi, “Collective Security as a Means of Ensuring Peace Among
Nations” in Charles O Lerche ed. Processes of the Lesser Peace, p. 163.
J Tyson, World Peace and World Government, p. 76.
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals, Trans. by H.J Paton, p. 89.
Kant, Perpetual Peace, trans. by Lewis White Beck, p. 101. I have used Beck’s
translation because Humphrey’s is rather obscure on this point.
Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals, Trans. by H.J Paton, p. 95.
Martin Buber, I and Thou,
William Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act I, Sc. V, 108.
I have borrowed this term from the German existentialist, Karl Jaspers.
The nature of Kant’s work in this regard can be seen in the title of his Religion
Within the Limits of Reason Alone, which derives God’s existence from morality
instead of vice versa.
In Soviet and Eastern European classrooms, “scientific atheism” courses were
mandatory throughout school. The sudden resurgence of religion in these coun-
tries after 50–80 years of rigorous anti-religious education highlights scientific
atheism’s failure to convince large portions of the population and strengthens
the argument for humankind’s inherent religious needs.
Kant, The Critique of Practical Reason. Section V. http://www.gutenberg.org/
cache/epub/5683/pg5683.html
ibid
ibid
Hegel, Philosophy of History, Part III, Section 36. http://www.marxists.org/
reference/archive/hegel/works/hi/history3.htm
John Milton, Paradise Lost, Bk I, line 165.
Kant, Perpetual Peace, trans. by Lewis White Beck, p. 128.
Once again we observe the truth of the saying that when God is tossed out the
front door, He quietly returns through the back.

Jeffrey Huffines, “Bahá’í Proposals for the Reformation of World Order,” Babak
Bahador and Nazila Ghanea, eds. Processes of the Lesser Peace, p. 1.
Baha’i International Community, 1992, Magazine—The Baha’is.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
Introduction
Since the publication of Sam Harris’ The End of Faith in 2004, a num-
ber of books extolling the virtues of atheism have gained prominence
in North America, notably Christopher Hitchens’ god Is Not Great,
Richard Dawkins’ The God Delusion, and Daniel Dennett’s Breaking
the Spell. Other books have also appeared but none achieved the fame
and/or notoriety of these four. These texts adopted a pugnacious and
even contemptuous tone towards religion and theists of all kinds,
even the mildest of them, Dennett’s Breaking the Spell, suggesting
that atheists ought to rename themselves “brights”— which suggests
that theists are obviously less ‘bright.’ According to the ‘new atheists’
as they were called, the only truth-claims we can accept are those
meeting the standards of modern science. They completely rejected
the existence of the super-natural or super-sensible aspects of reality.
In addition, they attempt to dismantle various philosophical proofs
of God, develop theories about the pathological origin of religion,
detail crimes committed by religion and challenge the link between
religion and morality.
This paper is a response to the philosophical claims of the new atheists,
i.e. an analysis of the philosophical foundations of their beliefs both
from a logical point of view, and from the perspective of the Bahá’í
Writings. Logically and philosophically speaking, their works are
deeply flawed, and, as is to be expected, they are often in disagreement
with the Bahá’í Writings—though on a number of issues they are in
agreement with them. This paper shall focus only on the major issues

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
and shall not point out every error of fact, every identifiable logical
error (and there are plenty)1 or the various polemical and rhetorical
theatrics they perform to advance their case.
Not unexpectedly, the number of differences between the new athe-
ists and the Bahá’í Writings far exceeds the number of agreements or
convergences. Writers calling for the wholesale abolition of religion
and all concepts of the super-natural or super-sensible, are not likely
to have much in common with the scriptures of any religion, even one
that accepts evolution, rationalism, the essential harmony of religion
and science and believes in the independent investigation of truth.
We must remember that the goal of the new atheists is to put as much
distance as possible between their ideas and religion. They have a
programmatic disinterest in common ground with religion.
Given the scope of disagreement with the new atheists, not to mention
their generally pugnacious style of self-expression, is there room for
debate with the new atheists? The answer is a qualified yes, certainly
on the basis of a number of agreements. We can also agree to explore
each other’s viewpoints to improve mutual understanding, although,
given the contempt they express for theologians and/or theistic
philosophers, there is room for a guarded optimism at best. There
is, of course, no reasonable hope for philosophical agreement since
the absolute denial of super-sensible realities undermines any basis for
agreement with religion. In other words, there can be no agreement
on foundational essentials, although there may be coincidental agree-
ment on other, non-essential issues.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Part I: Some Major Problems with the New Atheism
1: What is the New Atheism?
The ‘new atheism’ is the name given to contemporary atheism as
spear-headed by the work of Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitch-
ens, Sam Harris and Daniel Dennett. It is a form of explicit atheism
which requires a conscious and intentional rejection of belief in God,
gods and the super-sensible or supernatural realities, as distinct
from implicit atheism which is absence of belief in God, gods or the
supernatural without any conscious, i.e. intentional rejection. Implicit
atheism may be the result of ignorance or indifference. We must also
distinguish between the explicit, strong, positive or dogmatic atheism
which requires the conscious denial of any super-sensible realities, and
a “negative theoretic atheism”2 which is based on the lack of sufficient
data to assert the existence of super-sensible realities, and on the
inherent limits of human intelligence in knowing the existence of such
realities. This second type of atheism is close to agnosticism. Finally,
we must distinguish between atheism which denies the existence of
personal a God or gods but accepts the existence of a super-sensible
ground-of-being and an atheism which rejects the existence of any
and all super-sensible entities, personal or not. Theravada Buddhism
is often cited as an example of the former, as is Jainism.
The new atheism has twelve characteristics that define its
nature:
1.	 A commitment to explicit, strong or dogmatic atheism as
the only rational choice for modern, independent, free-
thinking individuals. The new atheists reject agnosticism as
too weak a response to the dangers of religion.
2.	 A categorical rejection of any and all super-sensible beings
and realities and a corresponding commitment to ontological
(metaphysical) materialism in explaining all phenomena.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
3.	 A militant agenda and tone which opposes not just the
idea of religion itself but even the tolerance of any religious
beliefs in others; this agenda and tone is driven by the belief
that religion per se is pathological in nature.
4.	 A strident, aggressive, and provocative way of expressing
themselves and indulgence in all kinds of polemical and
dismissive rhetoric.
5.
Belief in the ability of science to answer all human questions by
means of the scientific method with its criteria of measurabil-
ity, repeatability, predictability, falsifiability; quantifiability.
6.	 A belief that faith is inherently an enemy of reason and science
and no reconciliation between them is possible. Religion is
defined as inherently irrational, and thus. in a perpetual con-
flict with reason and science that must end with the ultimate
victory of one or the other. Faith is defined as “belief without
evidence.”3 They adhere to a conflict model of the relationship
between religion/faith and reason/science.
7.
Belief that religion is part of our past but not of our future,
i.e. religion is part of our evolutionary heritage that we must
learn to overcome.
8.	 An insistence of reading scriptures literally (in order to
condemn religion) and a consistent rejection of centuries
of non-literal theological interpretations of the relevant
scriptures.
9.	 An insistence that humankind has an innate and reliable
moral sense or intuition that does not require the guidance
of religion; morality is not inherently connected to or based
on religion and our morals have less to do with religion than
we tend to think.
10.	 Presentism: judging past ages by the standards of today, which
is, in effect, a failure to recognise the scientific principle of

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
evolution (or the principle of progressive revelation) operating
in religion as it does in all other aspects of life. (also the logical
error of anachronism)
11.	 A tendency to characterize religious faith as a form of mental
illness, a criminal offense comparable to child-molesting or
an anti-social act that ‘dumbs down’ society as a whole.
12.	 Rejection of the freedom to be religious; because religion is
so damaging to the well-being of society, it is not a legitimate
choice for individual or collective behavior in society
2. Are the New Atheists Really New?
If Hitchens, Dawkins, Harris and Dennett are the dominant figures
in the ‘new atheism,’ who are the representatives of the ‘old atheism’?
Since 1800, five major figures stand out, Feuerbach, Marx, Nietzsche,
Freud and Sartre. Feuerbach developed an anthropological view of
God in which God is nothing more than the projection of human
nature, i.e. of emotions, wishes, fears, dreams, hopes and ideals
projected outward in a larger-than-human form. In other words,
God is man writ large; God is made in man’s image. Ontologi-
cally, there is no such being as God. Feuerbach influenced Marx
according to whom God is an invention used by the ruling classes
to control those beneath them. Marx’s atheism is based on three
principles: (a) dialectical materialism according to which only
matter is real; (b) historical materialism according to which all
historical and cultural developments are based on economic fac-
tors; (c) radical humanism in which man, not God, is the supreme
being in the universe. Nietzsche’s most famous contribution to the
development of atheism is his statement that “God is dead”4 which
may be interpreted as a claim that our current conception of God
is dead, or that the idea of a metaphysical God is dead. His believes
that we can live more authentically human lives without a God Who
stands in our way and prevents us from choosing and asserting our
own identity and values, and Who weakens our commitment to and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
appreciation of earthly existence in the name of an abstract spiritual
heaven. Rather he proclaims “Dead are all the Gods”5 so that the
way is cleared for the evolution of the Superman. Nietzsche rejected
the concept of metaphysical aspects of existence. Freud asserted
that God is an illusion surviving from humankind’s childhood and
that this illusion prevented us from attaining intellectual and moral
maturity. God was a father figure to Whom we turned for protec-
tion instead of doing what was necessary for ourselves. Thus, belief in
God infantilizes us. Sartre, the most influential post WW II athe-
ist, rejects the existence of God because the existence of God limits
human freedom by imposing a pre-determined essence on us and
thereby preventing us from creating ourselves by our choices. He also
argues that the idea of God is self-contradictory insofar as no being
can be both “in-itself” like any object in the world and “for-itself” like
all self-conscious beings since “for-itself” is a negation of “in-itself.”
As a sidebar, we might also mention Anthony Flew, easily the best
known atheist philosopher in the English speaking world for almost
five decades. However, starting in 2003, Flew revised his position and
in his latest book, There Is a God (2007) he frankly admits to being
a theist. Almost as if he wished to scandalize his former atheist col-
leagues, Flew based his change of mind on a vigorous philosophical
defence of a variation of intelligent design.
A survey of the “old atheists’” work shows that very little of what
the new atheists say is substantially new. Almost all major themes—
materialism, the adequacy of science to solve all problems, religion
as part of our evolutionary past, the inherent conflict of reason
and faith or religion, the rejection of super-sensible aspects of the
universe and the militant denunciation of religion—have all been
anticipated by the “old atheists.” They also attempted to disprove
the earlier philosophical arguments for the existence of God and to
show that the concept of God was a social control mechanism.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
What is new in the new atheists is their denunciation of religious
tolerance, which they see as pandering to dangerous religious super-
stition; their rejection of the freedom to be religious; their rejection
of belief in belief which is viewed as adopting a second-hand faith
instead of facing the truth of atheism; their attempts to link religion
to our evolutionary genetic endowment as well as the assertion that
religion is child abuse. Finally, when compared to the work of the “old
atheists” their work shows a willingness to engage in polemics and
rhetorical theatrics that is unprecedented in Feuerbach, Marx, Freud
and Sartre, though it has some, though not nearly as extreme, roots
in Nietzsche.
3. Ontological Materialism and Its Problems
From the point of view of the Bahá’í Writings, the first problem
with the new atheists is their adherence to ontological and method-
ological materialism or physicalism. This philosophy is also referred
to as naturalism, which asserts that “[a] everything is natural, i.e.
that everything there is belongs to the world of nature and [b] so can
be studied by the methods appropriate to studying that world…”6
Part [a] of this definition covers ontological naturalism or mate-
rialism which is the view that “the world is entirely composed of
matter,”7 that reality is fundamentally physical (matter or energy)
and that non-physical entities have no part in composing reality.
Consequently, “the supernatural does not exist, i.e. only nature is
real, therefore supernature is not real.” 8 Part [b] of this definition
refers to methodological materialism, viz. that the proper method of
studying nature takes only natural, i.e. physical factors into account.
Any appeal to non-natural or non-physical factors is rejected in our
quest for understanding.
It is worth noting that adherence to methodological naturalism
does not necessarily require adherence to ontological naturalism.
We may accept methodological naturalism as the proper technique
for the study of physical nature without dismissing the existence

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
of non-physical or spiritual aspects of reality which have their own
appropriate methods of study. In other words, science confines itself
to statements about empirical studies and refrains from extrapo-
lating beyond its specific findings to such ontological issues as the
nature of reality as a whole. It limits itself to the study of phenomenal
reality from a strictly physical/natural perspective. Of course, those
who accept ontological naturalism are logically required to accept
methodological naturalism as well.
However, the new atheists are strong advocates of naturalism both in
its ontological and methodological forms. As Dawkins says, “I decry
the supernaturalism in all its forms.” 9 One reason for his stance is
that ontological: supernaturalism simply does not accurately reflect
reality and therefore, cannot be a proper object of scientific study
because nothing exists to be studied. A second reason is method-
ological: in a purely physical universe, only purely physical studies
are appropriate and attention to non-physical/spiritual entities will
only distract our attention and distort our conclusions. In a word,
supernatural considerations violate Occam’s Razor, a subject we shall
discuss in more detail below.
From a Bahá’í perspective, the new atheist’s naturalistic/material-
istic ontology is unacceptable. `Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear that he
categorically rejects the view that sensible material reality is all that
exists. Somewhat mockingly he says,
if it be a perfection and virtue to be without knowledge of God
and His Kingdom, the animals have attained the highest degree
of excellence and proficiency. Then the donkey is the greatest
scientist and the cow an accomplished naturalist, for they have
obtained what they know without schooling and years of labori-
ous study in colleges, trusting implicitly to the evidence of the
senses and relying solely upon intuitive virtues. (PUP 262)

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Later, he compares the mental conditions of the materialists to that
of the cow which is a
captive of nature and knows nothing beyond the range of the
senses. The philosophers, however, glory in this, saying, “We
are not captives of superstitions; we have implicit faith in the
impressions of the senses and know nothing beyond the realm of
nature which contains and covers everything. (PUP 311–312)10
In more technical language, the cow is a good positivist, holding the
belief that all valid knowledge must come from and is limited to the
senses. Positivists elaborate these requirements—knowledge must
be physically measurable, quantifiable, objective and predictable/
testable—but they maintain the fundamental position that there can
be no knowledge “beyond the range of the senses” or “beyond the
realm of nature.” Even a cursory reading of their books makes it clear
that the new atheists are strong positivists.
`Abdu’l-Bahá comments that if materialism/positivism is true, if it is
the final result of our studies, “why should we go to the colleges? Let us go
to the cow.” (PUP 361) The implication of his remarks is clear: just as
the animal’s materialistic view of reality is inadequate to understand
reality as a whole—obviously there are realities beyond the knowl-
edge of the cow—materialism or positivism in philosophy and science
are inadequate tools for understanding reality as a whole. Even in
principle, physical nature does not explain itself, i.e. is not completely
intelligible on its own terms. If we want to understand the existence
of nature, then we will have to go beyond physical nature itself. That
does not mean we necessarily have to invoke super-natural factors in
explaining each chemical reactions or every application of the law of
gravity but it does mean that super-natural factors must be included
when we try to explain certain fundamental questions such as the
origin of nature itself, of natural laws or of contingent beings. This, of
course, is precisely what atheists—old or new—either ignore or deny.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The Bahá’í Writings illustrate the unintelligible character of strictly
materialist explanations of the existence of physical reality in numer-
ous ways that we shall explore throughout this paper. For example,
in Some Answered Questions, `Abdu’l-Bahá discusses the way things
affect each other, stating,
The same can be said of other beings whether they affect other
things or be affected. Such process of causation goes on, and
to maintain that this process goes on indefinitely is manifestly
absurd. Thus such a chain of causation must of necessity lead
eventually to Him who is the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful,
who is Self-Dependent and the Ultimate Cause. This Universal
Reality cannot be sensed, it cannot be seen. It must be so of
necessity. (TAF 18)
`Abdu’l-Bahá clearly endorses the argument of the Uncaused Cause.
Denying the Uncaused Cause implies the existence of an infinite
regress of causal acts since it means that a causal sequence has no
beginning or end. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá the idea of an infinite
regress of causal acts is “manifestly absurd.”
In examining this argument, it is essential to clarify what is being
rejected, viz., an infinite series of actual dependent causal acts or
things, i.e. an ‘infinite’ series in which each depends on and is con-
ditioned by its predecessor. In other words, no act is self-sufficient
in its own being, but depends on something else for its coming into
existence or for acting. If all the things or causal acts in the universe
are not self-sufficient, but rather externally conditioned and thereby
dependent on others, then how can their existence or action be intel-
ligible on strictly material terms? As W. Norris Clarke, SJ, says,
Can there be an infinite regress in this chain of dependence, so
that it could extend endlessly with all its members having the

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
same existential status of [externally] conditioned existents,
none of them self-sufficient for its own existence?11
The question, of course, is rhetorical because when all things or
causes are dependent on and conditioned by something external to
them, then there can be no point at which a specific thing or causal
act meets the proper conditions for existence or action by itself—and,
consequently, nothing can act or come into existence. This is not a
problem that can be solved with better instrumentation or sharper
calculation; rather, the problem exists in principle, i.e. is constitutive
of the nature of an infinite series of causal acts or things. Furthermore,
if such an infinite regress of causal acts existed, the universe would be
in stasis since no causal act has the required conditions for activation.
But the universe is obviously not in stasis and, therefore, any solely
material explanation fails to explain causal action, i.e. leaves the
dynamic universe as we know it unintelligible. We may have limited
local explanations for local actions, e.g. the motion of a billiard ball,
but the ultimate origin of motion per se remains unintelligible.
It is virtually self-evident that whatever ultimately initiates the
“chain of causation” cannot itself be dependent on, i.e. caused or
conditioned by anything external to itself. It must be absolutely self-
sufficient. In other words, the initiator, the first cause, the “Prime
Mover” (PM 261) must itself be unconditioned and/or uncaused,
and this logically requires that it be a completely different kind of
entity than all other conditioned things and/or causes known to us
in the phenomenal world. It must be transcendent to the material
world not subject to causes and/or conditions. In short, it is what
religious philosophers call God.
There are other examples which show why, in principle, the material
universe cannot explain itself and why logically there must be a non-
physical source or ground of being. How and why do fundamental
particles get their specific natures? As previously shown, we cannot

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
posit an infinite series of evolutionary causal acts by which funda-
mental particles got their attributes through evolving from other
forms of matter. How did those other forms of matter get their
natures including their ability to evolve into something else and their
receptivity to influence? Once again, we either posit a source or we
succumb to the problems of an actual infinite regress.
We may also ask about the origin of physical laws. Since the laws that
regulate things cannot be the same as the things they regulate (oth-
erwise they require regulation themselves), they must be different in
kind from the things they apply to. Therefore, in principle, such laws
cannot arise from matter itself—which in turn raises the question of
their source. Yet again we see that the natural world cannot explain
itself, i.e. cannot explain itself in exclusively material terms and that
some concept of a ground of being or “Ultimate Cause” is necessary.
There is yet another way in which the Bahá’í Writings show the ratio-
nality of theism and the inadequacy of atheism’s purely naturalistic
explanations of the existence of the universe. Nothing in the universe
exists by necessity; everything we know comes into and passes out
of existence. This is what `Abdu’l-Bahá refers to when he says, “the
phenomenality of contingency is essential,” (SAQ 203) i.e. that being
contingent and being a phenomenon like matter are inseparable.
Contingent beings are dependent beings. This means they are not
self-sufficient and depend on something else to explain their own
existence or action; certain pre-conditions must be fulfilled before
they can come into existence and that whatever fulfills these pre-
conditions cannot itself be contingent. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Because a characteristic of contingent beings is dependency, and
this dependency is an essential necessity, therefore, there must be
an independent being whose independence is essential. (SAQ 6)

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
In other words, whatever fulfills the pre-conditions for the existence
of contingent things or causal acts must itself be independent of all
other pre-conditions. This is the case because it is clear that some-
thing comes to exist only by virtue of something else that already
exists (something cannot come from absolute nothing12) and that
if we follow this sequence we eventually arrive at something that
exists by its own nature, i.e. does not depend on something else
for its existence, and which, therefore, is not a natural object. Here
again we encounter a non-physical “Ultimate Cause.” (TAF 17) If
we reject this “Ultimate Cause” we shall find ourselves trapped in
an impossible infinite regress.
It is, of course, possible to ask if the phenomenal universe is con-
tingent. There are two ways to answer this question. First, the
Bahá’í Writings and empirical experience tell us that everything
that exists is contingent, i.e. it is possible for them not to exist. It
is possible for me or my house not to be. Because the universe is
existentially constituted entirely by contingent beings, it follows that
the universe itself is contingent. If every part of a machine is destruc-
tible, the machine itself is destructible, i.e. it does not have to exist. If
a machine is constituted by its parts, the machine does not exist until
the parts are assembled correctly.13 Denying this fact would lead athe-
ists into the strange position of asserting the somehow non-physical
existence of a house whose components have been hauled to the dump,
and to the continued non-physical existence of a plant whose cells have
been destroyed. This is not only illogical but also violates their own
naturalistic principles of sticking to empirical observations.
Second, the phenomenal universe is contingent because it is just one
of many possible universes that could have existed in the past or could
exist in the future. After all, the universe could have been arranged
differently, natural laws could have been different, as well as proton
mass and the strength of the weak force. In other words, the universe
as we know it does not exist necessarily, i.e. it is radically contingent,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
which is to say, its existence does not inevitably follow from what it is,
i.e. from its own being. A different universe could have existed and
ours not at all. However, such a radically contingent universe requires
a cause, since it obviously cannot create itself, nor can it create itself
from nothing. Furthermore, whatever brings the entire universe into
existence must be a non-contingent or necessary being i.e. in theologi-
cal language, God Who exists necessarily. (SAQ 203)
The Bahá’í Writings make it clear that science by itself cannot answer
certain fundamental questions about why phenomenal nature came
into existence, how or why natural laws arose and how or why particles
acquired their attributes. The first problem as we have seen is that of
an actual infinite regress. Furthermore, answering these fundamen-
tal questions scientifically requires us to apply the scientific method,
which is designed to study measurable, quantifiable, repeatable physi-
cal phenomena in time and space, whereas these questions refer to
the conditions that make measurability, physicality, quantifiability,
repeatability and time and space possible in the first place. These are
the pre-conditions necessary for phenomenal existence. Consequently
these questions lie beyond the scope of the scientific method which
is limited to phenomenal reality once these conditions have been
established. Science cannot answer them even in principle.
4. The Principle of Sufficient Reason
Another way in which the Bahá’í Writings deal with the denial of God
is to point out that strictly materialist explanations for the existence
of the universe violate the principle of sufficient reason (PSR). The
PSR, a venerable philosophical principle especially associated with
Leibniz but with roots hearkening all the way back to Anaximander,
states everything exists or happens for a reason that is necessary and
sufficient to explain why it exists/happens and why it exists/happens
in the particular way it does.14 Any scientific explanation seeks to
provide a necessary and sufficient reason for whatever it studies, i.e. it
seeks to fulfill the PSR. If a purportedly scientific explanation does

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
not satisfy the PSR, it will be considered wrong or incomplete. If an
explanation can never—not even in principle—fulfill the PSR, then
it is scientifically inadequate or deficient in some major way.
Like science, the Bahá’í Writings posit the principle of sufficient
reason (PSR) in a variety of contexts. Bahá'u'lláh makes theological
use of the PSR when He writes, God
through the direct operation of His unconstrained and sovereign
Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinction and
capacity to know Him and to love Him—a capacity that must
needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the primary
purpose underlying the whole of creation. (GWB 64)
Elsewhere, this purpose is also described as God’s desire to reveal
Himself which He does through humankind, the phenomenal
embodiment of His purpose. Bahá’u’lláh’s reason for the existence
of the phenomenal world is obviously not a scientific explanation in
terms of material or efficient causality. This account is existential
insofar as it explains existence in terms of human purpose, value
and final causality but this does not prevent it from meeting the
PSR in a theological context. (We shall have more to say about final
causality below.)
`Abdu’l-Bahá also affirms the PSR when he states, “everything which
happens is due to some wisdom and … nothing happens without a reason.”
(PUP 46) In its context, this statement has an existential and theolog-
ical application since it applies the PSR to events in the human world
and implies that any purely physical explanation of the tragic event
may be physically correct but is not complete. For a complete existen-
tial and/or theological understanding of earthly events we must look
beyond the phenomenal world. However, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement is
also applicable to existence in general since he believes that creation
functions according to natural laws and is not “fortuitous.”15

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
`Abdu’l-Bahá invokes the PSR in a scientific sense when he states that
“the existence of everything depends upon four causes,”(SAQ 280) i.e. the
material cause (wood), the efficient cause (the carpenter), the formal
cause (the form of the chair) and the final cause (the purpose of the
chair). Without all of these aspects, the explanation is incomplete.
We may know everything about the material aspects of the chair, but
if we do not know what it is for—its purpose or goal or telos—we
do not truly understand what it is. Nor can we adequately explain
its form, i.e. why it exists in the way it does. Therefore, any strictly
material account of the chair (or anything else) that cannot account
for the final cause does not truly satisfy the PSR.
4.1. An Important Digression: the PSR and Final Causes
At this point, a question important to atheism/religion debate
arises: why do we need to know the final cause in order to satisfy the
PSR? To understand why this is the case requires a brief digression in
order to rectify some common confusions about final causes. It is an
oft-repeated truism that science rejects final causes and confines itself
to material and efficient causes; belief in final causes is regarded as
a remnant of pre-scientific thinking to which religion is especially
susceptible.
However, this issue is not as clear as it might seem. To see why, let us
perform a thought experiment. Imagine a group of scientists finding
a book in an alien language. They can physically analyse the book
to the smallest detail of every material and efficient cause, and yet,
unless they know what the book is for i.e. a science text, a novel, a
news article, a philosophical text etc, they cannot claim to under-
stand what they have found. They do not know what it means and
what its purpose is. Their knowledge is correct but incomplete and,
therefore, their explanation cannot completely satisfy the PSR.
The usual objection to final causes is that nature is not a man-made
artifact like a chair or a book and, therefore, does not embody a goal or

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
purpose. Hence, the appeal to final causality is unscientific and must be
rejected. Scientific explanations have no room for teleology of any sort.
The problems with this retort begin with the misunderstanding that
the final cause is a conscious intention or a plan externally imposed
on some object or process. Aristotle, whose work is the foundation of
teleology, states, “It is absurd to suppose that purpose is not present
because we do not observe the [conscious] agent deliberating.”16 In
other words, purpose or goal can be present without a conscious
agent externally imposing his wishes on an object or process. Aris-
totle was clearly aware that in natural processes, we see no such
extrinsic agent guiding the changes.
According to Aristotle, in natural processes “the form [formal cause],
the mover [the efficient cause], ‘that for the sake of which’ [the final
cause] …often coincide,”17 i.e. are aspects of a single causal act. The for-
mal, final and efficient cause act together to produce certain effects on
a regular basis. The final and formal causes are simply what determines
the efficient cause to consistently achieve one particular effect rather
that a different one. For example, we expect sunlight on a windowsill to
produce a warm windowsill instead of rainbows or ice-cream. The sun-
light acts one way and not another precisely because it is pre-determined
to affect things in certain ways only; it is inwardly constrained, by its
nature to do only certain kinds of things, which is to say, constrained to
reach only a limited repertoire of goals. As W. Norris Clarke, S.J. says,
[i]f the efficient cause at the moment of its productive action is
not interiorly determined or focussed towards procuring this
effect rather than another, then there is no sufficient reason
why it should produce this one[effect] rather than [another].
Hence it will produce nothing [no effect] at all: indeterminate
action is no action at all… [This is] precisely what is meant by
final causality or focussed efficient causality…18

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The effects of any process can only be of a certain kind, i.e. they oper-
ate to reach particular goals or purposes. Consequently, it becomes
clear that the laws of nature also act as final causes because they
guide processes to certain specific ends instead of others; sowing
iron filings will not let us harvest sunflowers but will allow us to
gather rust. Planets follow the laws of motion—and therefore circle
the sun rather than inscribing figure-eights. The laws of chemistry
require acetic acid and baking soda to react in a certain way. All
these processes are constrained to act towards certain ends which
are predictable.
According to Henry Veatch, final causality is a perfectly commonsen-
sical notion, applicable to nature as well as to the work of conscious
agents. Here is how Veatch explains final causes:
In other words, since natural agents and efficient causes as
far as we understand them, are found to have quite deter-
minate and more or less predictable results, to that same
extent we can also say that such forces are therefore ordered
to their own appropriate consequences or achievement: it
is these they regularly tend to produce, and it is these that
may thus be said to be their proper ends… Aristotelian final
causes are no more than this: the regular and characteristic
consequences or results that are correlated with the characteris-
tic actions of various agents and efficient causes that operate in
the natural world.19
In other words, Aristotle’s concept of final causes is no less scientific
than a chemical formula that successfully predicts the results of
mixing acetic acid with baking soda or a satellite’s orbit. One might
also express this by saying that final causes are the potentials that
will actualize when certain preconditions are met either naturally or
through conscious human manipulation. They are not, as has been so

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
often claimed, mere anthropomorphisms and, if correctly understood,
do not undermine the doctrine of the unity of science and religion.
Among the new atheists, only Dawkins seems even peripherally aware
of the PSR, in his rejection of the view that “only theology is equipped
to answer the why questions. What on Earth is a why question?”20
He tries to brush them aside tout court: “Some questions simply do
not deserve an answer.”21 This, of course, is more an expression of
attitude and prejudice rather than a rational reply. However, in tak-
ing this path, he goes too far; insofar as his retrogressive argument
could just as easily be used to dismiss some of the most important
scientific questions of our time, e.g. Einstein’s question of whether
time was constant for all observers and why it was not. Dawkins also
fails to distinguish between questions that can be rationally justified
and those that cannot, i.e. questions based on scientific data or logi-
cal reasoning and those that are baseless speculation. For example,
it is not unscientific to ask how and why the initial cosmological
singularity came into existence since there is general consensus that
such a singularity must have existed but, until empirical and/or logi-
cal evidence arrives there is no point in wondering why fairies rode
sea-horses in the prehistoric oceans.
Based on his previous statements, Dawkins would seem to imply
that only questions that can be answered scientifically deserve to
be answered but this reply, as we shall see in detail below, is highly
problematical.
5: Methodological Naturalism
As we may recall, the second part of our previously given definition
of naturalism refers to methodological materialism i.e. the view that
everything there is “can be studied by the methods appropriate to
studying that world.”22 In other words, all phenomena must be studied
and explained scientifically, i.e. in strictly material or physical terms;
we cannot appeal to any non-physical causes in our explanations. All

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
studies must adhere to the methods of natural science, i.e. be measur-
able, quantifiable, repeatable, objectively observable, and falsifiable.
Ideally, we should be able to conduct or at least conceive of an actual
experiment to help determine what is true, or minimally, what is
false. Only that which can be scientifically established or at least is
not forbidden by the scientific method can be called truth.
The adherence to methodological materialism creates serious prob-
lems for the new atheists. The first is the claim that only knowledge
meeting the demands of the scientific method is genuine knowledge,
i.e. is not faith or “belief without evidence.” One problem is how to
verify such a claim scientifically. What experiment could prove that
only scientific knowledge claims are valid, or that all other knowledge
claims are false? The impossibility of doing so is self-evident. Obvi-
ously, the new atheists’ claim about genuine knowledge refutes itself
because it cannot meet its own criteria for testing knowledge claims.
Hence, their position is untenable.
A second problem follows. If only scientifically established facts are
genuine knowledge, how can the new atheists assert ontological
materialism, i.e. that there are no supernatural or super-sensible
aspects to reality?23 By its very nature a scientific experiment can
only tell us about physical things and nothing at all about the exis-
tence or non-existence of super-physical entities. How then, could
an experiment prove or disprove the existence of the supernatural or
super-sensible? Again, the new atheism’s basic ontological premise is
undermined by its own insistence of excluding anything but scientific
evidence. In effect, their categorical denial of super-sensible realities
is left without a foundation even on their own terms.
The new atheism’s foundational claims are, in the final analysis, self-
undermining and self-refuting., Paradoxically then, the assertion of
these claims as if they were genuine truth is ultimately no more than
an act of faith, or as Dawkins puts it, a delusion that grows out of

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
“belief without evidence.”24 This places the new atheists in a position of
serious self-contradiction since they are opposed to believing anything
on faith. Harris, whose book is called The End of Faith, says “faith
is simply unjustified belief,”25 i.e. belief “unjustified” by the scientific
method, while Dennett approvingly quotes Mark Twain’s jest, “‘Faith
is believing what you know ain’t so.’”26 Hitchens , too, views faith as
belief without evidence.27 Consequently, the new atheists are in a posi-
tion of asserting a position based on "faith" (not provable by science),
and, this ironically, makes the new atheists the inadvertent target
of their own grand pronouncements about the untenability of faith:
“Our enemy is nothing other than faith itself,”28 “It is therefore the very
nature of faith to serve as an impediment to further inquiry,”29 “faith and
superstition distort our whole picture of the world.”30
What all this demonstrates is that the philosophical foundations of
the new atheism, specifically, the methodological and ontological root
premises, are severely flawed inasmuch as they cannot meet the basic
logical criterion of internal consistency or non-self-contradiction.
Even on their own terms, they cannot prove that the physical world
is the only real one, and, therefore, they cannot prove the foundation
principle of atheism that God does not exist. This leaves belief in God
available as a rational possibility.
6. Is the Existence of God a Tenable “Scientific Hypothesis”?
Another problem with ontological materialism is Dawkin’s view
is exposed in the two statements that “the God question is not in
principle and forever outside the remit of science”31 and “the exis-
tence of God is a scientific hypothesis like any other.”32 These two
statements entangle him in a flagrant self-contradiction. How could
a natural, physical experiment prove or disprove the existence of a
non-physical entity? How could God, Who is not a natural object,
Who does not exist in the limitations of time and space be proven or
disproven by an experiment precisely limiting itself to entities that
exist in time and space? "God" would be subject to scientific study

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
and experimentation only if that Being is a quantifiable, physical or
material being, i.e. part of nature—but "God" is not. Thus, Dawkins
sets-up a straw-man argument insofar as he tries to portray God as
a mere ‘natural object’—something to which no religion agrees. As
`Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The Divine Reality is Unthinkable, Limitless, Eternal, Immortal
and Invisible …It [the “Infinite Reality”] …cannot be described
in terms which apply to the phenomenal sphere of the created
world. (PT 50)
He adds, “in the world of God there is no time. Time has sway over crea-
tures but not over God.” (SAQ 156) Moreover, God is not limited by
place. (SAQ 203) In short, the God posited by the Bahá’í teachings,
and I would argue, ultimately by all religions, has none of the charac-
teristics of the phenomenal reality which science is designed to study.
Therefore, Dawkins’ argument does not refute the existence of God
as accepted by religions but only refutes a ‘straw-man,’ a naturalistic
‘god’ as Dawkins has contrived him for polemical purposes. Like all
straw-man arguments, Dawkins’ contention simply misses the point.
The existence or non-existence of God is beyond the reach of scientific
study, though, as we have already seen, it is not necessarily beyond
the man’s reasoning capacity.
This problem also dogs Dennett’s work, though from a different per-
spective. He proposes to study religion scientifically—a project not
in itself incompatible with the Bahá’í Writings—but then he forgets
that scientifically studying the human phenomenon of religion in
evolutionary terms is not the same thing as establishing atheism on a
scientific basis. The latter requires evidence that God does not exist,
whereas the former merely studies how the religious impulse mani-
fests itself in various cultural forms—which does not say anything
at all about God’s existence or non-existence. His attempt to argue
from the historical manifestations of religion to God’s non-existence

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
is a patent non sequitur. Finally, Dennett reduces God to the kind of
phenomenon science can study and seems oblivious to the fact that
he has substituted his own naturalistic ‘god’ for a supernatural God
and, therefore, has set up a reductionist argument.
7. Self-Contradictions: Meme Theory and HADDs
The demand that all genuine knowledge must be scientific also
causes trouble for the new atheists insofar as it leads them into self-
contradictions. In order to explain the spread and powerful hold of
religion, Dawkins and Dennett assert that religion is a meme, i.e. a
“unit[] of cultural imitation”33 which functions like a gene for ideas,
beliefs, customs, feelings, skills and so on. These are transferred
through teaching, imitation and law. As Dennett points out, these
memes operate for their own benefit, and must be studied in light of
the question “cui bono?” 34 i.e. who gains?
The most obvious problem with meme theory is that it is beside the
point to the issue of God’s existence or non-existence because it is a
theory about the transmission of ideas and images, and, as such, says
nothing about the truth of these ideas and/or images. Nothing in
meme theory can be used to tell us whether or not the ‘God-meme’
refers to an existing reality. Any conclusions one way or another are
simply a non sequitur fallacy. The method of transmission of an idea
does not allow us to assess if the idea is true.
But there are deeper difficulties, viz. that meme theory itself does
not meet the demands of the scientific method. Here are ten reasons
why memes are no more than metaphors and not products of reason-
ing guided by the scientific method: memes (1) do not exist in space,
(2) are not physical, (3) have no internal structure i.e. no physically
separate or component parts or clear boundaries, (4) are not involved
in any measurable energetic processes within themselves, amongst
themselves or with other beings, (5) do not show, action, agency, e.g.
competition, accommodation, (6) have no inherent interests or even

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
self-interests (all their interests are attributed to them externally), (7)
have no intention and cannot act intentionally, (8) have no inherent
reproductive capacity, (9) cannot be quantified, (10) “have no chro-
mosomes or loci or alleles or sexual recombination.”35 Given these
characteristics, how are memes amenable to scientific study? They
are not measurable, quantifiable, physical, predictable nor any of the
other attributes of genuine scientific objects. Furthermore, they can-
not be subject to evolution in any but a metaphoric sense.
Consequently, Dawkins’ and Dennett’s meme theory is based on a
fallacy, or perhaps more precisely, a false analogy, not only because
memes are essentially different from genes but also because unlike
genes, memes are not scientifically testable objects. Furthermore,
treating memes as if they had inherent interests is an example of a
logical mistake known as the pathetic fallacy, which treats inanimate
things as if they were alive.36 Since a non-living thing has no intentions
or goals, it cannot have any inherent interests to achieve or lose. Any
‘interests’ it has must be imposed from the outside and Dennett’s “Cui
bono?” question is irrelevant to them.
Dennett attempts to prove that memes exist “because words exist”37
but this too is untenable. In the first place, identifying words with
memes does not escape the problems noted above. Furthermore, a
word may exist physically as sound or as physical marks on paper or
a screen, but the meaning of the word is not inherent in these marks
or sounds—and it is precisely the meaning which is the basis for their
significance as memes. Therefore, if Dennett is referring to the physi-
cal word form, his argument to show memes exist is beside the point
since it says nothing about the meaning of the word/meme. If the
meme is the meaning , then how is meaning measurable, quantifiable,
energetic, or, how is it in time and space? How does it have interests?
In short, it is a non-scientific object and for the new atheists to build
a theory on them is self-contradictory. Indeed, the meaning of a word
is a perfect example of a non-material or non-physical (dare I say

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
non-positivist?) reality, the existence of which these atheists are eager
to deny in any form. The new atheists cannot demand scientific rigour
from religions on one hand and then appeal to meme (or HADD)
theory on the other.
Like Dawkins’ meme theory, Dennett’s HADD theory is also beside
the point of God’s existence or non-existence. In “investigating the
biological basis of religion,”38 Dennett posits the existence of the
HADD, the brain’s supposed ‘hyper-action agent detection device’
which attributes agency or intention to events and entities around
us.39 This HADD is the alleged origin of our belief in supernatural
phenomenon including God or gods.40 Even if his hypothesis were
true (though Dennett admits it is no more than a convenient supposi-
tion or untested theory41), a theory to explain the origin or prevalence
of an idea can tell us nothing about the truth of an idea. The prevalence
of an idea and the truth of an idea are two different things and we can-
not prove anything about one from the other. Nor can the historical
origin of belief in God or gods be counted as evidence against them
without committing the genetic fallacy. The origins of an idea can
never prove or disprove the truth of an idea. An idea is true or untrue
strictly on its own merits or lack of them.
Furthermore, HADD’s, like memes, are no more than reified assump-
tions and cannot meet the most elementary tests of scientific validity.
Yet Dennett, who admits they are no more than suppositions, and
Dawkins treat them as established fact. This reveals an enormous
self-contradiction in their work: on one hand, they critique religion
for its speculations and lack of scientific explicability while at the
same time indulging in such speculations in their own theories. We
shall have more to say about fallacies involving HADD’s later.
8. Self-Contradiction: Adopting Eastern Mysticism
Harris falls into a similar self-contradiction regarding his demand
for scientific rigour for all religious claims on one hand and his own

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
reliance on non-scientific claims on the other. He asserts that eastern
mysticism offers a rationally valid alternative to religion. In defence
of mysticism he writes,
Mysticism is a rational enterprise. Religion is not. The mystic
has recognised something about the nature of consciousness
prior to thought, and this recognition is susceptible to ratio-
nal discussion. The mystic has reasons for what he believes
and these reasons are empirical. The roiling mystery of the
world can be analyzed with concepts (this is science) or it can
be experienced free of concepts (this is mysticism).42
Harris’ initial claim that mysticism is rational is a much debated
subject and cannot simply be taken at face value especially in light
of his self-contradictory statements about it. First, if mysticism is
“consciousness prior to thought,” then it cannot be “susceptible to
rational discussion” which is entirely dependent on conceptual and
rational thought to work. This problem is one of the reasons many
mystics resort to metaphor, poetry, story, myth—the content of
many religious texts—in an effort to convey in words that which
is beyond conceptual thinking. We simply cannot discuss anything
that is “prior to thought.” Second, how could a mystic justify, i.e.
provide “reasons for what he believes” if what he has experienced
is “prior to thought”? What reasons could adequately justify that
which is beyond all thought? Only the purely subjective experience
itself can provide adequate justification. Our third problem is that
this necessary subjectivity conflicts with Harris’ adherence to the
scientific method and its rejection of subjective experience as a valid
source of knowledge. Fourth, Harris’ phrase “the roiling mystery of
the world” is, in light of Harris’s advocacy of empirical, scientific
knowledge, a prize piece of nonsense. What could this phrase even
mean? How could one devise an experiment to determine how mys-
terious or “roiling” the world is? Harris, in his advocacy of eastern
mysticism as a supposed anti-dote to religion is, like Dawkins and

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Dennett, in serious contradiction with the scientific premises he
supposedly adopts as the basis of his thinking.
9. Disproving God’s Existence
Because the new atheists realise that atheism requires denial of God’s
existence, they attempt to refute or dismiss various traditional argu-
ments for God’s existence. We shall review and critique a number of
them as well as contrast them to the Bahá’í Writings.
Hitchens, for example, tries to disprove the First Mover argument
by pointing out that the alleged First Mover or First Cause of all
beings, God, must himself have a designer.43 He asks, ‘Who made
God?’ or as Dennett puts it in launching a similar argument, “What
caused God?”44
There are at least three logical flaws in this line of reasoning. First,
it commits a category mistake, i.e. confuses one kind of object with
another. God, as portrayed by religions, is not a natural object subject
to physical laws and the conditions of existence such as time, place,
contingency or dependence. (SAQ 116, 148, 231) `Abdu’l-Bahá
points out that God “cannot be described in terms which apply to the
phenomenal sphere of the created world,” (PT 50) precisely because
God is not a natural object. Dawkins disagrees, holding that God is
well within the scope of scientific study.45 However, to treat Him as if
He were, necessarily fails to refute the concept of God that is at the
center of the debate. In short, it misses the point completely.
Second, this category mistake leads to a straw-man argument which
does not disprove God as understood by religious practitioners but
only ‘God’ as described by the new atheists. This substitution makes
their conclusion inapplicable to God as conceived by virtually all reli-
gions. The new atheists have, in effect, set up a straw man and, thereby,
changed the subject. Indeed, if God were a natural object amenable
to scientific study, there is no question that the new atheists would

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
be right in denying His existence but in the debate with religion they
often merely tilt at windmills of their own making.
Third, by asking “What caused God?” Dennett not only makes a cat-
egory mistake but also initiates an actual infinite regress, which, as
already shown, is logically absurd and rejected by `Abdu’l-Bahá. The
question assumes that God, like all other natural objects, requires
a cause and this in turn leads to an infinite regress of actual causal
acts. We have already shown why such an actual infinite regress is
impossible in an earlier section of this paper.
Dawkins’ makes the same category mistake although he approaches
the problem from a slightly different angle. He specifically rejects the
“Unmoved Mover” argument, the “Uncaused Cause” argument and
the “cosmological argument”46 by arguing against the assumption that
God is exempt from infinite regress. This assumption, he suggests, is
unfounded. If God were a natural object like all others, Dawkins is
undoubtedly correct, but religions generally do not propose such a God,
and this is certainly not the concept that exists in the Bahá'í Writings.
Therefore, unless Dawkins wishes to pursue his straw man argument
that God is a natural being, he must show why a God Who is not a
natural entity should be subject to infinite regress like all other natural
objects. Merely asserting that God is not exempt fails to satisfy when
simple logic tells us that God as described by religion as an absolutely
independent being is necessarily exempt from infinite regress.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, of course, accepts the argument of the Uncaused Cause,
which implicitly accepts God as exempt from infinite regress: “there
must be an independent being whose independence is essential.” (SAQ 6)
The same conclusion follows from the radical contingency of all things.
“Nothing is caused by itself.”47 In fact, the idea is self-contradictory, i.e.
literally nonsensical. For a thing to cause itself, it would have to exist
before it exists—and this is impossible. Therefore, all phenomenal
things are dependent on an external cause i.e. are contingent and this

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
line of dependence ends with God. We can only avoid this conclusion
by positing the existence of an actual infinite sequence and all the
associated difficulties to which we have referred.
Dawkins compounds his category mistake of naturalizing God by
stating that the universe, or a Dutchman’s Pipe plant, is too complex
to have been created by a simple being. Thus, God would have to
be at least as complex as His creation—and the existence of such a
super-complex being is even more “improbable”48 than the chance
developments of evolution. Later he elaborates the idea that God
must necessarily be super-complex: “A God capable of continuously
monitoring and controlling the individual status of every particle
in the universe cannot be simple.”49 He also describes God as a “cal-
culating agent”50 of improbable complexity. Underlying Dawkins’
assertions is the assumption that God is a natural object, composed
of matter subject to time, space and causality, and Who reasons
discursively in linear logical sequence. But that is precisely what
religion says God is not. Once again, Dawkins sets up a straw man—
his naturalistic definition of God—and then tries to disprove it. He
does not really deal with God as presented by religion.51
In contradiction to the new atheists’ acceptance of cosmic evolution
as a matter of pure chance, `Abdu’l-Bahá accepts the idea of design.
This composition and arrangement [of the cosmos], through
the wisdom of God and His preexistent might, were produced
from one natural organization, which was composed and com-
bined with the greatest strength, conformable to wisdom, and
according to a universal law. From this it is evident that it is
the creation of God, and is not a fortuitous composition and
arrangement . (SAQ 181)
We need not look far for the reason. The universe evolved in accor-
dance with natural laws. However, as we have already seen, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
existence of natural laws requires a creator, a transcendent entity not
itself subject to natural law but which establishes natural laws with all
their inherent potentials. When these laws affect matter, they create
the order of which we are aware today. (The same has been noted
about the attributes and potentials of matter.) Even moments of
extreme disorder—supernovae, volcanic eruptions—happen accord-
ing to physical laws. Moreover, as the laws of probability tell us,
‘chance’ functions according to rules which, over time, impose a degree
of order on seemingly unordered processes. The large scale design we
see on earth or in the universe around us is the product of these laws
(and their action on matter) over time. There is no rational argument
to insist that cosmic design must occur by direct intervention at the
macroscopic level when an explanation based on the laws of nature
and the attributes of matter provides equally tenable explanations of
the order we observe.
Thus, in the Bahá’í Writings, there need be no inherent conflict
between the concept of design—in the nature and potentials of
laws and matter—and evolution vis-à-vis the actualization of these
potentials in different forms over time. This weakens the new athe-
ist argument that religion and science are necessarily antagonistic.
Dawkins tries to defuse the traditional argument from degree
according to which the degrees of certain qualities such as good-
ness, perfection or truth require that there be a highest degree as
a reference point for the lesser degrees. He replies that there must
also be degrees of smelliness and therefore, a final “peerless stinker”52
must exist. Obviously he does not understand the argument which
requires us to distinguish between concrete descriptors (smelliness,
redness) and “transcendentals”, i.e. attributes of being itself such as
unity, (oneness), goodness (in itself), truth and perfection. These can
be applied to all beings—while smelliness or redness cannot. Once
again, we observe how Dawkins sets up a straw man argument and

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
thinks he has demolished the traditional argument when he has not
even addressed it in the first place.
In Some Answered Questions, `Abdu’l-Bahá advances the argument
from perfection as a proof for the existence of God.53 He says, “The
imperfections of the contingent world are in themselves a proof of the
perfections of God.” (SAQ 5) To say that something is imperfect or
approaches perfection more than something else implies the existence
of a perfect standard by which to measure degrees of perfection. Such
a perfect standard ultimately can only refer to God Who possess all
perfections to a supreme degree, including the perfection of existence.
God’s existence is perfect because it is necessary—there simply can
be no greater degree of existence than God’s; furthermore, God’s
existence is fully actual, i.e. God has no potentials left to actualize
(otherwise He would be subject to change). God is complete, indepen-
dent and absolute. On the other hand, the existence of creation is of
a lesser order because it is contingent, dependent and to some degree,
potential.
Dawkins tries to undermine the ontological argument for God’s exis-
tence by referring to Kant who identified the “slippery assumption that
‘existence’ is more perfect than ‘non-existence.’”54 The obvious problem
is that it makes no sense to say that ‘non-existence’ is as perfect or as
imperfect as ‘existence’ since we cannot ascribe any attributes what-
ever to ‘non-existence.’ Lacking all qualities and even the potential for
acquiring qualities, non-existence is inherently less than existence; it
is not even more imperfect—it just ‘is not.’ This understanding of
the value of existence over non-existence is the ontological basis for
gratitude to God for creation in general:
All praise to the unity of God, and all honor to Him… Who,
out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all things,
Who, from naught, hath brought into being the most refined
and subtle elements of His creation, and Who, rescuing His

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
creatures from the abasement of remoteness and the perils of ulti-
mate extinction… How could it, otherwise, have been possible for
sheer nothingness to have acquired by itself the worthiness and
capacity to emerge from its state of non-existence into the realm
of being? (GWB 64–65)55
An existential retort to Dawkins’ position would be to challenge
him to choose non-existence for himself or someone he loves. It is a
certainty that he will immediately and most personally discover the
perfections of existence.
A survey of the new atheist’s work shows their handling of the issue of
philosophical proofs for God’s existence is very weak, and shows little
understanding of the subject. Aside from the problems mentioned
above it should be noted that no major philosophers, even those with
religious commitments, have ever seriously considered the “argument
from scripture,” the “argument from admired religious scientists,”
the argument from personal experience,” or the “argument from
beauty”56 as proofs for God’s existence. Pascal’s Wager is, of course,
not an argument about God’s existence as Dawkins seems to think,
but is an argument about belief.
10. Morality Versus Religion
One of the major goals of the new atheists is to separate morality from
religion in order to undermine the argument that we need religion to
be moral. They argue that enormous harm has been done in the name
of religion and do not hesitate to provide exhaustive lists of horrors
perpetrated in the name of faith. However, problems arise with their
belief that such crimes are less likely to be committed in the name of
atheism and that atheism has a more humane record.
In fact, the record of Marxist-Leninism, Communism, in which athe-
ism is a foundational and integral part, shows that such is not the
case. In the single century of Communist rule, approximately 100

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
million people have been programmatically killed in purges, vast
slave labour camp systems, and man-made famines not to mention
the brutalities of the secret police.57 Even a cursory examination of
the history of Communist countries makes it clear that atheism (which
was often taught as a school subject) and atheists have no edge on moral
behavior. The notion that the abolition of religion and its replace-
ment by programmatic atheism would bring the end of murderous
fanaticism is not borne out by history. Only Harris seems fully
aware of this problem—and his response is to say that “communism
was little more than a political religion.”58 In other words, he tries
to re-define communism as a religion—despite the fact that athe-
ism is integral to the ontology, epistemology, ethics, philosophy of
man, and social and political philosophy of Marx, Engels, Lenin and
Mao. For obvious reasons Harris’ response is not credible. Hitchens
admits that “emancipation from religion does not always produce the
best mammal either”59 but this is a statement made in passing and is
not explored as to its implications for his indictment of religion.
The new atheists believe that we do need not religion as a basis for
our values and the two must be separated. In their view, we can rely
on reason as the basis of our morals because we want to “commit our-
selves to finding a rational foundation for our ethics.”60 Says Hitchens:
“We believe with certainty that an ethical life can be lived without
religion.”61 For support, he turns to Kant’s categorical imperative (CI)
which states “I am never to act otherwise than so that I could also will
that my maxim should become a universal law.”62 The chief problem
with the CI is that it is an empty claim: it gives no specific guidance: a
psychopath might very well agree that all people act as he does; Hitler,
Stalin, Mao etc. expected them to—and struck first. In fact, by itself,
the CI ultimately prohibits nothing and leaves our own subjective tastes
as a standard for morals. This is obviously unsatisfactory as a basis
for social order which requires unified moral standards. In a similar
vein, Dennett writes, “Maybe people everywhere can be trusted and
hence allowed to make their own informed choices. Informed choice!

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
What an amazing and revolutionary idea!”63 Superficially this sounds
good and reasonable, but if we ask ‘What principles shall guide these
informed choices?’ difficulties multiply. Whose principles? What
shall ground them? Why should I accept them? What happens if I
disagree with them? Moreover, an even deeper question arises for all
ethical systems grounded only on reason: ‘Why should I be reason-
able? What if it’s to my advantage to act unreasonably? What if I
don’t feel like being reasonable to others?’.
As `Abdu’l-Bahá points out, ethical systems based purely on human
reason can lead us to different, conflicting and even self-contradictory
answers. (SAQ 297) Indeed, ethical viewpoints may be little more
than rationalized personal preferences. Obviously, such a plethora of
competing viewpoints makes society unworkable since the existence
of society depends on an objective standard applicable to all. In other
words, ethical systems based only on reason lack authority and they
lack an objective foundation applicable to all.
11. The Need for Absolute Ground in Ethics
The new atheists reject the necessity of an enforcing authority for
morals. Dennett, as we have seen, thinks we can rely on individuals
making their own choices,64 and Harris thinks we can rely on our
moral intuitions (more below) as well as Kant’s other formulation of
the categorical imperative i.e. that we must treat others as ends-in-
themselves and never as merely a means to another end.65 Hitchens ,
it is fair to say, speaks for these authors when he writes, “there is no
requirement for any enforcing or supernatural authority.”66
There are two problems with this position. First, while it may (or may
not) be an ideal to strive for, the practical problem remains that with-
out consequences, without reward and punishment any ethical system
becomes a dead letter, a mere set of suggestions that some will follow
and others will not. That is why the Bahá’í Writings state “That which
traineth the world is Justice, for it is upheld by two pillars, reward and

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
punishment. These two pillars are the sources of life to the world.” (TB
27) Bahá’u’lláh also says, “the canopy of world order is upraised upon
the two pillars of reward and punishment.” (TB 126) There must be
consequences to action in order to encourage and reward obedience.
The second problem is that mere human authority, be it of reason or
government lacks the authority to make people accept moral precepts;
they lack the intrinsic authority of God Who is the author of all
that exists. They lack the guarantee of correctness, the certainty, the
objective viewpoint and foundation that only God can provide in
guiding our actions. Yet this is exactly what people need as the new
atheists themselves admit. This is precisely why Kant thought God
was necessary as a regulative idea or principle in morals.
As an objective ground for ethics, the new atheists propose either an
innate moral sense in all human beings, or in the case of Dawkins and
Harris, in biology, i.e. genetics. These provide an absolute ground or
absolute reference point needed to make moral choices more than
the mere expression of personal preferences. Hitchens tells us that
“conscience is innate”67 and that “Human decency is not derived from
religion. It precedes it.”68 Harris also asserts the existence of an innate
moral sense:
Any one who does not harbour some rudimentary sense that
cruelty is wrong is unlikely to learn that it is by reading… The
fact that our ethical intuitions have their roots in biology
reveals that our efforts to ground ethics in religious concep-
tions of “moral duty” are misguided…. We simply do not need
religious ideas to motivate us to live ethical lives.”69
Dennett’s willingness to trust everyone’s informed choices also
implies that we all possess an inner moral standard of reasonableness
to which we will adhere. Dawkins tries to ground the innate moral
sense in our genetic make-up.70

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
From the viewpoint of the Bahá’í Writings, this position is not so
much incorrect as incomplete, and, therefore, leads to an untenable
conclusion. In the first place, the Writings tell us that humans have the
capacity to be moral i.e. learn moral behaviors but that this capacity
must be actualized by the teachings of a Manifestation acting through
parental and social education. (PUP 400–401) `Abdu'l-Bahá tells us
that “man, if he is left without education, becomes bestial, and, moreover, if
left under the rule of nature, becomes lower than an animal, whereas if he
is educated he becomes an angel.” (SAQ 7) If our good or bad character
is actualized by education, we immediately face questions over what
are the particular principles and teachings we shall inculcate—and
here again, without divinely grounded guidance, we shall be subject
to conflicting opinions and programs. In short, we cannot rely only on
the innate capacity to be moral for morality in practice.
This difficulty is exacerbated by the fact that humankind has a divine
or spiritual aspect, (SAQ 118) that might be compared to the innate
moral sense posited by the new atheists. However, the Writings
also note that humankind has an animal nature in conflict with our
spiritual nature, and may overcome it by force or deception. The new
atheists have not taken this animal nature into account in the unfold-
ing of our moral lives and, therefore, have over-simplified the issue of
innate moral intuitions. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The promptings of the heart are sometimes satanic. How are we
to differentiate them? How are we to tell whether a given state-
ment is an inspiration and prompting of the heart through the
merciful assistance or through the satanic agency? (PUP 254)
Because this question cannot be answered immanently, i.e. from the
standpoint of reason or intuition alone, we require an external guide
or objective standpoint by which to evaluate our ethical promptings
and decisions. This is precisely the role filled by God and the Mani-
festation. “He [man] has the animal side as well as the angelic side, and

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
the aim of an educator is to so train human souls that their angelic aspect
may overcome their animal side.” (SAQ 235) However, if we reject God
as the ground of our morality, then all moral systems inevitably fall
into relativism and conflict as various moral conceptions compete.
This is not conducive to the peaceful world both the new atheists, the
Bahá’ís, and all people of good will want to establish.
In other words, the Bahá’í Writings lead us to believe that there is
an innate moral capacity in man but that this moral sense needs to
be cultivated and developed by education from parents and teach-
ers but above all, by the Manifestations of God. The view that this
innate moral capacity may have biological roots is not a problem from
a Bahá’í perspective, indeed, is to be expected given that man is an
embodied creature. Thus, Bahá’ís may agree that science can study
the biological basis of ethics, without at the same time succumbing to
the reductionist view that all ethics can be reduced to biology.
12. Faith Versus Reason
The new atheists also posit an inherent conflict between faith and
reason. Hitchens sums up their views when he writes, “All attempts
to reconcile faith with science and reason are consigned to failure and
ridicule.”71 Harris claims,
Religious faith represents so uncompromising a misuse of
the power of our minds that it forms a kind of perverse,
cultural singularity—a vanishing point beyond which
rational discourse proves impossible.72
For his part, Dawkins says, “religious faith is an especially potent
silencer of rational calculation, which usually seems to trump all
others.”73 Such sentiments inevitably lead us to questions about the
nature and scope of reason.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The new atheists’ work makes it clear that in their model of reasoning,
they identify reason with science and the scientific method, i.e. with
a naturalist view of reason in which reason must function within
the limits of nature as understood by science. Any knowledge-
claims that transcend the natural realm and therefore cannot meet
the standards of scientific knowledge are not genuine knowledge.
Consequently, reason is fundamentally incompatible with belief in
super-natural or super-sensible beings or realities and is also incom-
patible with faith which is “simply unjustified belief.”74 Indeed, faith
simply shows an unwillingness “to stoop to reason when it [faith] has
no good reason to believe.”75 In effect faith is inherently irrational,
and, therefore, inherently incompatible with reason. Whatever we
designate as knowledge must be rational, i.e. explicable in rational
terms, and must fall within the limits of nature as established by
science. There is no such thing as knowledge that transcends our
natural limits; reason only functions correctly when it limits itself
to the natural world. Any attempt to reason beyond physical nature
opens the way to theological superstition.
We have already discussed the logical short-comings of this viewpoint,
i.e. its inability to meet its own standards for genuine knowledge. Since
experiments are limited to the natural realm, no experiment can tell
us anything one way or another about the existence or non-existence
of super-natural or super-sensible aspects of reality. Consequently, the
naturalist viewpoint is itself a form of faith as the new atheists define
it, i.e. “belief without evidence.”76
In contrast to the new atheists who embrace an extreme rationalism
which asserts that only positivist or scientifically rational knowledge
is true knowledge, `Abdu’l-Bahá maintains a moderate rationalism.
According to moderate rationalism, reason can tell us some things
but not everything; it is necessary for the acquisition of knowledge
but it is not always sufficient. While reason may prepare the way or
lay the foundations for certain kinds of knowledge, there comes a

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
point in the quest for knowledge, when we must rely on other ways
of knowing. That is why `Abdu’l-Bahá points out that the mind
which is “a power of the human spirit” must be augmented by a super-
natural power if it is to acquire knowledge of super-sensible realities:
“the human spirit, unless assisted by the spirit of faith, does not become
acquainted with the divine secrets and the heavenly realities.” (SAQ
208) Reason alone cannot supply us with certain spiritual truths the
knowledge of which requires super-natural guidance or inspiration.
Nor can it provide complete certainty which is why other ways of
knowing are necessary. `Abdu’l-Bahá points out that
the bounty of the Holy Spirit gives the true method of comprehen-
sion which is infallible and indubitable. This is through the help
of the Holy Spirit which comes to man, and this is the condition
in which certainty can alone be attained. (SAQ 299)
Similarly, in discussing various proofs of God, `Abdu’l-Bahá states,
if the inner perception be open, a hundred thousand clear proofs
become visible. Thus, when man feels the indwelling spirit, he is
in no need of arguments for its existence; but for those who are
deprived of the bounty of the spirit, it is necessary to establish
external arguments. (SAQ 6)
In other words, when the mind is clear and open, we can perceive
directly truths which we otherwise must laboriously prove by discur-
sive reasoning. We acquire knowledge by immediate insight because
we are enlightened by the “the luminous rays which emanate from the
Manifestations.” (SAQ 108)
It is clear that one of the functions of reason is to remove the intel-
lectual, attitudinal and emotional impediments that block our direct
vision of the truth. Reason, so to speak, clears the path for faith
because faith, too, is another way of knowing certain kinds of truth.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Faith need not be ‘blind’ or ‘ignorant.’ As `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “By the
faith is meant, first, conscious knowledge, and second, the practice of
good deeds,” (TAB3 549) which shows that “conscious knowledge” is
an integral part of faith.
Elsewhere he speaks of the kind of faith “which comes from Knowledge,
and is the faith of understanding” (ABL 64) This latter kind of faith
culminates in “the faith of practice.” (ibid) He also points out that faith
gives us “the capacity to partake of the lights of knowledge and wisdom.”
(TAB1 166) Furthermore, `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “If a question be found
contrary to reason, faith and belief in it are impossible and there is no
outcome but wavering and vacillation.” (PUP 181)
Very obviously, the Bahá’í Writings do not view faith as ‘ignorant
faith’ but see reason and faith working together, two wings of a bird,
(TAB1 178) to provide knowledge of both the sensible/physical and
super-sensible aspects of reality. Consequently, the clash between
faith and reason is not inherent or necessary as the new atheists claim
but is a product of unclear thinking.
13. Intolerance Against Religion
One of the areas of major disagreement between the Bahá’í Writings
and the new atheism is the latter’s emphatic rejection not just of the
intolerance shown by religions but also for inter-religious tolerance
itself. Sam Harris writes,
religious moderates are themselves the bearers of a terrible
dogma: they imagine that the path to peace will be paved
once each of us has learned to respect the unjustified beliefs
of others. I hope to show that the very ideal of religious
tolerance—born of the notion that every person can believe
whatever he wants about God—is one of the principle forces
driving us toward the abyss.77

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
It is worth pointing out that religious tolerance is demonized—in
favour of atheist intolerance, a self-contradiction given the new
atheism’s attack on intolerance by religion. It is also a case of special
pleading insofar as they apparently believe that atheist intolerance is
somehow salutary. However, the new atheists go farther. Harris writes,
“It is time we recognized that belief is not a private matter … beliefs
are scarcely more private than actions are.”78 If beliefs are as public
as actions, then they are subject to law and punishment like actions.
Here we observe a more repressive side of the new atheism, which also
becomes apparent when Dawkins writes
children have a right not to have their minds addled by non-
sense, and we as a society have a duty to protect them from it.
So we should not allow more parents to teach their children
to believe … [any more] than we should allow parents to
knock their children’s teeth out or lock them in a dungeon.79
As with Harris’s challenge to the concept of religion as a private
personal matter, Dawkins’ claim suggests the instrument of law may
have to be used to “protect them [children] from it [religion.” Hitchens’
suggestion that teaching religion is “child-abuse”80 implies a similar
line of action since child-abuse is not something any society should
tolerate. He would at the very least forbid religious instruction until
a child has attained “the age of reason.”81 Admittedly, Hitchens says
he would not ban religion even if he could, but in light of his extreme
rhetoric throughout his book, and especially in light of his claim that
religious instruction is child abuse, this statement rings hollow. The
intolerance of the new atheists—though it must be noted Dennett is
largely free of this—also manifests itself in their expressions of con-
tempt, gratuitous insults and other rhetorical theatrics during their
discussions. These might make their works more entertaining but
they do nothing to strengthen their arguments.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
14. Belief in Belief
Perhaps the best portion of Breaking the Spell deals with Dennett’s
concept of “belief in belief,”82 which he describes not as belief in
God but belief that belief in God is a good thing, “something to be
encouraged and fostered wherever possible.”83 He points out that “It
is entirely possible to be an atheist and believe in belief in God.”84
He also suggests that some individuals who find their faith in God
waning, try to restore their faith by enlisting others to believe in
God. According to Dennett, while many believe in God, “Many
more people believe in belief in God”85 which he regards as a kind of
unconscious or unadmitted atheism. People no longer believe in God
but in a concept.
This raises an interesting question: ‘Is belief in the belief in God a
kind of belief or unbelief?’ Can a person who believes that belief in
God is a good really be considered an atheist, or is belief in the good-
ness of the concept of God itself a kind of faith in God? Has such an
individual not taken the first intellectual step towards belief in God,
i.e. is such a person not already on the road to faith insofar as she/he
recognises a unique goodness lies in a certain kind of belief? If, moreover,
we combine this belief or faith with action, as required by 'Abdu'l-Bahá,
then belief in belief may, indeed, be a kind of faith.
The Bible also contains a relevant passage on this issue. The father of a
child whom Christ was asked to heal said, “Lord, I believe; help thou
mine unbelief.”86 Like Dennett’s believer in belief, he, too, suffered
from unbelief—yet because he recognised the goodness of belief,
Christ accepted his statement as a statement of belief and healed the
child. Unlike Dennett, therefore, we may interpret belief in belief as a
species of belief in God, at least in principle. Dennett’s understanding
of belief in belief as a form of atheism does not necessarily follow
from such belief itself.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
15: Literalism
One of the new atheists’ major problems from a Bahá’í perspective
is their consistent literalism in reading Jewish, Christian and Mus-
lim scripture. They read scripture in its explicit and most obvious
sense and reject non-literal understandings. Dawkins rails against
theologians who “employ their favourite trick of interpreting selected
scriptures as ‘symbolic’ rather than literal. By what criteria do you
decide which passages are symbolic, which literal?” 87 Assuming there
is no rational answer, he simply continues his literalism, a practice
supported by Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens. In this sense,
the new atheists resemble their fundamentalist opponents who also
have a strong tendency to literalist readings of scripture.
There are two kinds of problems with new atheist literalism. The first
concerns their neglect of centuries, indeed, millennia of non-literalist
interpretation of scripture. This is not the appropriate place for a
survey of scriptural interpretation, so we shall be content with two
examples from Christianity. Already as early as the 5th century A.D.,
Augustine in his “The Literal Interpretation of Genesis” states that the
creation story does not refer to seven actual days and that the time
framework is not to be taken literally. The story conveys a spiritual
meaning not a scientific account that can be expected to replicate
modern cosmological findings. In more recent times, we have devel-
oped existential ways88 of reading scripture as well as Bultmann’s de-
mythologizing which understands scripture as dealing with the pos-
sibilities and conditions of human existence and decision-making.89
In addition, we might consider the point that the spiritual teachings
are communicated through “symbolic forms… which are designed to
reach the more hidden levels in us of instinct, feeling, and intuition.”90
Dawkins seems unaware of these possibilities and gives no reasons why
this history should be ignored, i.e. why we should simply accept his
unsupported assertion that symbolic readings are all a “trick.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Whether we read symbolically or literally depends entirely on how
we understand the intention or main idea of scriptural passage or
story. It need not always be to convey actual historical events. It
may, for example, function as a ‘myth,’ i.e. as an account in external
worldly terms of inner psychological and spiritual processes. William
Blake, for example, thought of the Exodus story as a journey from
enslavement to a false notion of self and a struggle to attain a true
one. It may be to convey the nature of (an) existential choice, such as
Abraham’s or to draw attention to our need to recognise overwhelm-
ing and mysterious powers in our existence as in Job. In light of the
history of scriptural interpretation, we can only conclude that the
new atheists adopt literalism because it suits their polemical purpose
of presenting religion in its most negative light.
From the viewpoint of the Bahá’í Writings, the second problem
with literalism is that it rejects non-literal or symbolic readings of
scripture. Perhaps `Abdu’l-Bahá sums up the Bahá’í position most
succinctly when he states “The texts of the Holy Books are all symbolical.”
(PUP 220) For example, in Some Answered Questions, `Abdu’l-Bahá
provides extensive symbolic interpretations of Biblical books and
stories; indeed, of the story of Adam and Eve, he says “if the literal
meaning of this story were attributed to a wise man, certainly all would
logically deny that this arrangement, this invention, could have ema-
nated from an intelligent being.” (SAQ 123) Clearly he recognizes its
irrationality at the literal level. Similarly, Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-Íqán
(The Book of Certitude) is a non-literal, symbolic reading of portions
of the Qur’án and other Muslim theological statements. Bahá’u’lláh
makes it clear that those who do not apprehend the inner, symbolic
meaning of these terms, will inevitably suffer:
Yea, inasmuch as the peoples of the world have failed to seek
from the luminous and crystal Springs of divine knowledge
the inner meaning of God’s holy words, they therefore have

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
languished, stricken and sore athirst, in the vale of idle fancy
and waywardness. (KI 105)
Insofar as the new atheism has confined itself to the outward, explicit
meaning of scriptures, it is, like fundamentalism, lost “in the vale of
idle fancy and waywardness.” He adds, that “the commentators of the
Qur’án and they that follow the letter thereof misapprehended the inner
meaning of the words of God and failed to grasp their essential purpose.”
(KI 115) This would certainly include the new atheists.
The new atheists cling to literal readings of scripture for the obvious
reason that many of their complaints about religion would evaporate
if scripture were understood symbolically. For example, problems
with the Biblical creation account or with the story of Adam and Eve
would be resolved in symbolic understandings. This weakens their
case against religion.
16. Presentism
The final problem with the new atheism to be discussed is presentism,
i.e. the logical fallacy of evaluating past societies which existed in com-
pletely different physical, cultural, economic, social and psychological
circumstances by the standards of 21st century ideals as developed in
advanced, post-industrial nations. Presentism is a particular form of
the logical flaw known as anachronism which distorts our understand-
ing of past societies and actions by introducing incongruous standards
into our study of past societies. It is rooted in overlooking, ignoring or
misunderstanding the fact that earlier historical circumstances may
have required responses that would strike us as immoral.
Hitchens’ discussion of the Old and New Testaments represents
the presentism found throughout the work of the new atheists. His
discussion of the “pitiless teachings of the god of Moses”91 shows no
awareness of the time-frame he is considering, nor of the cultural
conditions and political circumstances with other tribes. The laws

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
may, indeed, strike us as harsh or odd—but to expect the ancient
Jews living in a ‘tough neighbourhood’ to have been governed by
laws suitable for 21st century post-industrial democracies shows
enormous historical insensitivity. Speaking of Christ’s beatitudes,
Hitchens writes, “several are absurd and show a primitive attitude to
agriculture (this extends to all mentions of plowing and sowing, and
all allusions to mustard and fig trees)”92 Why would he object to the
agricultural references in parables delivered in a time when the vast
majority of humans were involved in agriculture?
Ironically, the new atheists’ presentism is a failure to adopt an evo-
lutionary viewpoint on human development, a failure to recognise
that just as humankind’s body has evolved, so has its capacity to
understand moral and religious concepts. For that reason, expecting
the same level of moral and religious understanding from ancient
peoples living in wholly different circumstances is not a rational
response. Furthermore, presentism involves the new atheists in a
self-contradiction with their declared evolutionary principles. Con-
sequently, this self-contradiction undermines their claim to base
their arguments in strictly rational and scientific principles.
Part II: Areas of Convergence or Agreement
Despite the significant differences between the Bahá’í Writings and
the new atheism, there are at least seven points on which they agree
or at least converge.
17. The Evolution of Religion
Because of their advocacy of the scientific method, the new atheists
agree that religion should be explored and discussed in evolutionary
terms. Dennett, for example, says that the super-natural creatures
“that crowd the mythologies of every people are the imaginative off-
spring of a hyperactive habit of finding agency wherever anything

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
puzzles or frightens us.”93 The HADD, which started out as a coping
mechanism, a “Good Trick, rapidly became a practical necessity of
human life”94 and thereby came to control and blind us. Hitchens
traces the origins of religion to earliest man’s “babyish attempts to
meet our inescapable demand for knowledge.”95 Now that we have
science, we have outgrown it. Dawkins presents two theories about
the evolutionary origin of religion. In one, religion’s roots are the
evolution-based tendency for children to “believe without question
whatever your grown-ups tell you.”96 The other is that religion “is a
by-product of the misfiring of several of these modules”97, i.e. data
processing units in the brain as it evolved. Thus religion is essentially
pathological, “an accidental by-product—a misfiring of something
useful.”98 The time has come to correct this mistake.
From a Bahá’í perspective, there is no inherent difficulty with
an evolutionary approach to understanding religion. Indeed, it is
amazingly close to the teaching of progressive revelation according
to which “the exoteric forms of the divine teachings” (SAQ 75) are
adapted to physical, historical and cultural conditions that evolve
over time, while the inner or “esoteric meaning” (SAQ 120) or “eternal
verities” (PDC 108) remain constant to meet the universal needs of
our human nature. Each Manifestation
restates the eternal verities they [previous religions] enshrine,
coordinates their functions, distinguishes the essential and
the authentic from the nonessential and spurious in their
teachings, separates the God-given truths from the priest-
prompted superstitions. (PDC 108)
By distinguishing the essential from the non-essential and the
man-made from the God-given, the Manifestation renews religion,
providing it with a new outward form appropriate to new circum-
stances with new teachings or restatements (ibid) of universal
truths suited to a new era. He cleanses religion of that which is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
“man-made,”99 since the Bahá’í Writings agree with Hitchens' point
that much of what passes for religion is man-made. Through this
process of cleansing reform and augmentation, religion evolves and
continues to evolve without any foreseeable end.
Consequently, Bahá’ís are not surprised to find that different—per-
haps to us shocking—laws were proclaimed in earlier times, that
different practices held sway along with substantially different beliefs.
Rather than condemn them from our current viewpoint we should try
to understand these laws, practices and beliefs as agents in creating a
unified society, often struggling for survival against implacable ene-
mies. What progressive evolution shows is that God, works through
history within the limitations of human beings endowed with free will,
who often find themselves caught in very difficult circumstances. In
these circumstances, it may have been necessary to punish adultery
or theft very harshly for the cohesion and well-being of the group. We
should also remember that perhaps one people was more receptive
to God’s message than others and, thereby, became a special vehicle
for human religious evolution. Surrounded by mortal enemies, these
more receptive peoples may have been forced to take what strikes us
now as gratuitously harsh action.
From a Bahá’í perspective, there is no difficulty in saying that reli-
gion started with a HADD for example or has roots in a child’s trust
in its parents. Hitchens informs us there would be no churches “if
humanity had not been afraid of the weather, the dark, the plague,
the eclipse and all manner of other things now easily explicable.”100
This may be true, but anyone who thinks this disproves the truth
of religion is simply committing the genetic fallacy, a logical error
according to which we de-value something on the basis of its origin
instead of its present state.101 HADD, childish trust or childish fear
are only the avenues by which religious phenomena  may have first
appeared in the world—and these avenues of emergence, determined
as they are by their cultural circumstances, do not necessarily negate

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
the truth value inherent in the beliefs that appear.  Given the vulner-
ability of their rather short lives, it makes no sense to expect that our
ancestors would have the same sophisticated religious understanding
that is available in our day. However, their lack of sophistication does
not prove they were not ‘onto something’ in their intuitions about
super-sensible realities. If we demythologize these beliefs, we may
indeed find valuable insights. 102
18. Crimes on God’s Name
Another area of significant agreement between the Bahá’í Writings
and the new atheists concerns the crimes that have often been com-
mitted in the name of religion, not to mention injustice and corruption.
The Writings make no effort to conceal or sweeten the misdeeds that
have been perpetrated under the guise of religious teachings. Frank
recognition of these sad developments is integral to the doctrine of
progressive revelation since all religions and civilizations follow the
seasonal cycle which begins with a pure spring inspired by revelation
but ends with a winter in which
only the name of the Religion of God remains, and the exoteric
forms of the divine teachings. The foundations of the Religion of
God are destroyed and annihilated, and nothing but forms and
customs exist. Divisions appear… (SAQ 74)
`Abdu’l-Bahá also says,
The beginnings of all great religions were pure; but priests,
taking possession of the minds of the people, filled them with
dogmas and superstitions, so that religion became gradually
corrupt. (PUP 406)
These corruptions led to false doctrines that encouraged war and
destruction:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
I wish to explain to you the principal reason of the unrest
among nations. The chief cause is the misrepresentation
of religion by the religious leaders and teachers. They teach
their followers to believe that their own form of religion is the
only one pleasing to God….  Hence arise among the peoples,
disapproval, contempt, disputes and hatred. If these religious
prejudices could be swept away, the nations would soon enjoy
peace and concord. (PT 45–46)103
In the words of Christopher Hitchens, “religion has been an enormous
multiplier of tribal suspicion and hatred, with members of each group
talking of the other in precisely the tones of the bigot.”104 Overcoming
these prejudices and divisions is the purpose of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission:
The utterance of God is a lamp, whose light is these words: Ye
are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch. Deal
ye one with another with the utmost love and harmony, with
friendliness and fellowship… So powerful is the light of unity
that it can illuminate the whole earth. (GWB 288)
The Writings also denounce religion’s attempts to suppress the
development of science, the ignorance of the clergy, the undue wealth
of the churches compared to the poverty of Christ and the masses,
and its interference in politics among other things.105 Although the
Bahá’í Writings do not express themselves as flamboyantly as the
new atheists, they are equally clear in condemning the abuses per-
petrated by religion and are equally determined to eliminate such
practices. Moreover, like the new atheists, the Writings view the
elimination of religion as a better alternative to continued division
and conflict: “If religion becomes the source of antagonism and strife, the
absence of religion is to be preferred.” (PUP 117)
The Bahá’í Faith and the new atheists differ on this issue only inso-
far as the new atheists want to remedy this problem by abolishing

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
religion altogether as an irremediable destructive force, while the
Bahá’í Faith sees the solution in progressive revelation and above
all, in the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. In the Bahá’í view, atheism and
strictly man-made moral systems will not achieve the desired goal of
a world that is at peace with itself and its environment.
However, we must not forget that the new atheists and the Bahá’í
Revelation are responses to the same problem, i.e. global disunity,
ignorance and the depredations of corrupt religion. This fact forms
a basis for positive dialogue with the new atheists despite the differ-
ence in solutions. Unfortunately, the dogmatic denial that religion
has anything worthwhile to contribute to such a debate tends to
inhibit such a dialogue.
19. Respecting Science and Reason
Another significant area of agreement between the Bahá’í Writings
and the new atheists is importance of reason and science in human
existence. Since we have already explored the new atheism’s commit-
ments to reason and rationality in the previous section, we shall point
out a few Bahá’í statements on this subject to show that a basis for
dialogue exists. For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá says that “in this age the
peoples of the world need the arguments of reason.” (SAQ 7) Elsewhere
he proclaims, “Science is an effulgence of the Sun of Reality, the power
of investigating and discovering the verities of the universe, the means by
which man finds a pathway to God.” (PUP 49) He sees no inherent
and necessary conflict between reason, science and religion, a concept
emphasised in the following:
The third principle or teaching of Bahá’u’lláh is the oneness of
religion and science. Any religious belief which is not conformable
with scientific proof and investigation is superstition, for true sci-
ence is reason and reality, and religion is essentially reality and
pure reason; therefore, the two must correspond. (PUP 107)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Also:
Material science is the investigation of natural phenomena;
divine science is the discovery and realization of spiritual
verities. The world of humanity must acquire both…. Both
are necessary—one the natural, the other supernatural; one
material, the other divine. (PUP 138)
Finally, he points out the intimate connection between faith and
belief and rationality, making clear that irrational faith is not just
undesirable but essentially impossible:
Unquestionably there must be agreement between true religion
and science. If a question be found contrary to reason, faith and
belief in it are impossible, and there is no outcome but wavering
and vacillation. (PUP 181)
These statements demonstrate that according to the Bahá’í Writ-
ings, faith is not just “belief without evidence”106 or ‘blind faith.’
Indeed, in the foregoing quotation, `Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear
that genuine faith in opposition to reason cannot exist since it leads
to “wavering and vacillation.” Faith must include knowledge and
understanding, because without them, even the strongest commit-
ment is bound to weaken.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s pronouncements potentially form the basis for a
far-reaching dialogue about the nature, strengths and limitations
of reason, as well as the relationship between reason, science and
religious faith. However, it must be admitted that such a dialogue
will be fraught with challenges given the new atheist’s insistence
on a positivist and materialist view of science and reason and the
Bahá’í Writings’ allegiance to moderate rationalism and belief in
the super-sensible.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
20. The Independent Investigation of Truth
The new atheists certainly agree that the quest for truth should be
independent, i.e. unhindered by religious institutions such as the
Inquisition or by religious beliefs. Otherwise, how can we know what
the truth is on any subject? As `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The first is the independent investigation of truth; for blind
imitation of the past will stunt the mind. But once every soul
inquireth into truth, society will be freed from the darkness of
continually repeating the past. (SWAB 248)
Elsewhere he says,
God has conferred upon and added to man a distinctive power,
the faculty of intellectual investigation into the secrets of creation,
the acquisition of higher knowledge, the greatest virtue of which
is scientific enlightenment. (PUP 30)
Bearing in mind that ‘science’ here does not refer to naturalistic or
material scientism that `Abdu’l-Bahá rejects elsewhere,107 we see
that the quest for knowledge is one of humankind’s distinguishing
features. This independent investigation is necessary not just for a
few but for “every soul” so that all human beings can take responsi-
bility for what they believe. Consequently,  there can be no inherent
objection to a Bahá’í investigating the new atheism and testing its
arguments by the standards of logic, philosophy, science, history and
theology. Nor is there any objection to Dennett’s suggestion that
we teach children “about all the world’s religions, in a matter of fact,
historically and biologically informed way.”108 The only stipulation
would be that such teaching must be complete, i.e. students must
also be equipped with understanding of the inherent limitations of
naturalistic science, so that their understanding may be conscious
and critical and so that one dogmatic "faith-based" preference is not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
simply replaced by another. In that way, each individual will be able
to be able to give informed consent to whatever ideas she/he adopts.
21. Ethical Realism
Although the new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings disagree about the
role of religion in ethics, they do agree on ethical realism, i.e. the view
that moral beliefs are not simply a matter of individual preference
but rather that “in ethics, as in physics, there are truths waiting to be
discovered—and thus we can be right or wrong in our beliefs about
them.”109 This view is already implicit in their belief in some kind of
universal ethical intuition which can be applied to all peoples at all
times. Leaving aside the issue of how this universal ethical intuition
might be manifested in different evolutionary circumstances, the
new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings can agree that certain ethical
virtues are objectively valid, among them compassion and goodwill,
(SAQ 301) justice and fairness, tolerance, generosity and a dedication
to truth.
An ethical realist position also means that the new atheists and the
Bahá’í Writings agree on the rejection of relativism in ethics, i.e. they
agree that ethical viewpoints are more than reflections of person pref-
erences. They reject the view that we cannot judge ethical viewpoints
because we lack an objective, Archimedean standpoint from which to
make judgements. For the new atheists, this standard consists in our
innate moral intuitions, and for Bahá’ís, this standard is established
by God and is sometimes available through the moral intuitions of
our spiritual nature.
The issue of ethical realism gives the new atheists and the Bahá’í
Writings common ground in their opposition to ethical relativism as
exemplified in postmodern philosophy.110 It also provides common
ground in regards to the essential unity of human nature, in regards
to ethical intuitions and their possible genetic basis, i.e. a universal
human nature which provides an objective basis for unity.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
22. Objective Correspondence Epistemology
The agreement between the new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings on
ethical realism has far-reaching implications, into epistemology for
example. If there are universal, objectively knowable (and innate) eth-
ical standards, then it follows that at least some knowledge is objec-
tive, that it is possible to evaluate at least some knowledge vis-à-vis
truth and falseness. This lays the basis for an objective epistemology,
i.e. the claim that all truth-claims are not necessarily mere individual
or cultural constructions without correspondence to reality.
The new atheists’ adherence to an objective epistemology is self-
evident from even the most cursory survey of their books; after all,
the whole enterprise of science is predicated on the principle that our
discoveries correspond to or tell us something about reality. There
may be interpretational differences whether this knowledge is about
reality in itself or to reality in inter-action with us, but in the final
analysis we gain some testable and objective knowledge about real-
ity itself. This agrees with `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “the rational
soul gradually discover[s] … [and] comprehends the realities, the proper-
ties and the effects of contingent beings.” (SAQ 217–18) In other words,
the rational soul does not construct these realities, which is to say
that these “realities” exist independently of the human perceiver.
Elsewhere `Abdu’l-Bahá states,
the rational soul as far as human ability permits discovers the
realities of things and becomes cognizant of their peculiarities and
effects, and of the qualities and properties of beings. (SAQ 208)
Again, the emphasis is on discovery and on acquiring knowledge,
becoming “cognizant” of the attributes of things. These properties are
not ‘subjective,’ i.e. ascribed to things by humankind either as indi-
viduals or as cultures. Here is another statement from `Abdu’l-Bahá:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The mind and the thought of man sometimes discover truths, and
from this thought and discovery signs and results are produced.
This thought has a foundation. But many things come to the
mind of man which are like the waves of the sea of imaginations;
they have no fruit, and no result comes from them. (SAQ 253)
Here `Abdu’l-Bahá goes into more detail. Discoveries lead to “thought
[that] has a foundation,” i.e. a foundation in reality, i.e. corresponds to
reality. This, in effect, asserts an objective, correspondence theory of
truth in which correct thought has a “foundation” or basis in reality,
which is to say, corresponds to reality. `Abdu’l-Bahá also differenti-
ates such thought from imaginations which he says lead to no real
results. He also states,
Reflect that man’s power of thought consists of two kinds. One
kind is true, when it agrees with a determined truth. Such
conceptions find realization in the exterior world; such are
accurate opinions, correct theories, scientific discoveries and
inventions. (SAQ 251)111
Here he speaks specifically of a knowledge that “agrees with a deter-
mined truth,” i.e. knowledge that corresponds to reality. He also
provides a test for this knowledge: it leads to “accurate opinions” and
“correct theories” which conform to reality as well as to discoveries and
inventions. In other words, such knowledge has real results testable
with the reality in question.
`Abdu’l-Bahá reinforces the correspondence theory of knowledge in
a variety of statements. As already noted, `Abdu’l-Bahá states that
“Philosophy consists in comprehending the reality of things as they exist,
according to the capacity and the power of man.” (SAQ 221) To compre-
hend the reality of things “as they exist” is nothing other than to have
one’s knowledge correspond to reality. Naturally, this comprehension
is limited by our station and capacities but this does not mean that

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
what we do in fact comprehend does not correspond to reality. For
example, the statement that the interior angles of a triangle add up
to 180 degrees is true—but only in plane geometry. This statement is
true but limited. The same holds for our true but limited knowledge
of reality.
23. Realist Ontology
Along with a realist ethics and a realist epistemology, the new atheists
and the Bahá’í Writings share a realist ontology. In its simplest terms,
ontology is one’s theory of reality, its nature and modes of being.
Although ontology seems far removed from ordinary human con-
cerns, all human beings and cultures possess an ontology, although
it is usually unconscious. For example, the simple statement, ‘I shall
walk the dog’ assumes (a) that ‘I’ exists in some way, (b) that ‘I’ have
could make such a decision, (c) the dog exists in some way, (d) that ‘I’
and the dog are distinct and separate entities, exterior to each other,
(e) that motion is possible and real and that (f) the city street outside
also exists. While this may seem self-evident to some, to others, such
as those who believe the world is an illusion or maya, or who believe
that the self is an illusion, none of these points are necessarily obvious.
It is undeniable that the new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings dis-
agree about the ontology in regards to the existence or non-existence
of any super-sensible reality. Naturally, the new atheists reject the
super-natural. However, they do agree with the Writings that the
world is real in its own right i.e. exists independently of human
perception and possess some “principle, foundation, or reality” (SAQ
278) which gives it existence in itself. In SAQ, `Abdu’l-Bahá flatly
rejects the view that reality is a phantasm created by humankind:
Certain sophists think that existence is an illusion, that each
being is an absolute illusion which has no existence—in other
words, that the existence of beings is like a mirage, or like the
reflection of an image in water or in a mirror, which is only an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
appearance having in itself no principle, foundation or reality.
This theory is erroneous. (SAQ 278)
It is noteworthy that `Abdu’l-Bahá refers to those who maintain that
the world is an “absolute illusion” as “sophists,” a term traditionally
associated with flawed and deceptive reasoning. Use of this term
signals his rejection of ‘illusionism’ or ‘phenomenalism’ which is
confirmed by his statement that “[t]his theory is erroneous.”
Further support for ontological realism is found in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement that “each being” in the exterior world is real, i.e. possesses
some “principle, foundation, or reality” which give it some degree of
existence “in itself.” (SAQ 278) In other words, “each being” has at
least some degree of innate existence, is individual, is distinct and
possesses some detachment or independence from other beings and
is, in that sense, unique. As `Abdu’l-Bahá’ says in a later section of
this passage, “in their own degree they [things in the exterior world]
exist.” (SAQ 278) Each thing “in the condition of being…has a real
and certain existence.” They are not mere “appearances” of something
else, i.e. epiphenomena, passive side-effects or by-products that pos-
sesses no “principle, foundation or reality” of their own. This idea is
re-enforced by the following statement:
for though the existence of beings in relation to the existence
of God is an illusion, nevertheless, in the condition of being it
has a real and certain existence. It is futile to deny this. For
example, the existence of the mineral in comparison with that
of man is nonexistence…; but the mineral has existence in
the mineral world…Then it is evident that although beings in
relation to the existence of God have no existence, but are like
the mirage or the reflections in the mirror, yet in their own
degree they exist. (SAQ 278)

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
This statement makes it unequivocably clear that according to
`Abdu’l-Bahá while degrees of reality differ, every being is, in its own
degree, undeniably real. It is worth noting that he flatly rejects any
contradictory viewpoint: “It is futile to deny this,” he says, thereby
foreclosing any argument to the contrary.  He emphasises the reality
of creation elsewhere by stating “Now this world of existence in relation
to its maker is a real phenomenon.” (SAQ 280) In other words, it has
its own, undeniable degree of reality.
The new atheists also accept the objective reality of the exterior
world, which they understand as being purely material or physical
and amenable to adequate study by the scientific method. Of course,
where the new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings differ is whether
the objectively known reality which exists independently of human
perception and possesses its own degree of reality, is limited to the
physical or includes the super-sensible. This is a serious difference
but it should not blind us to the fundamental agreement about
ontological realism.  Ironically on this, and the previously noted
fundamental philosophical issues, the new atheists  and the Bahá’í
Writings share more common ground with each other than they do
with postmodernist philosophy.
Conclusion
As is to be expected, there are far more differences than similarities
between the new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings—though the
extent of the similarities and their foundational nature is surpris-
ing. The question remains, however, ‘Are these similarities enough to
allow a meaningful dialogue between the two?’ Can the differences
between the new atheists and the Bahá’í Writings be bridged? In
other words, is there anything the two can build on together?

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
On the foundational issues there is no common ground: they cannot
agree on
1.
the existence or non-existence of super-natural or super-
sensible beings (God) or realities (Abhá Kingdom, Holy
Spirit). [ontology]
2.	 the adequacy or inadequacy of the scientific method and
reason as the sole determinants of what constitutes genuine
knowledge. [epistemology]
3.
the new atheist belief that religion is inherently pathological
and no longer as a part in humankind’s future evolution.
Change on any of these issues would undermine their core identities.
On the accidental or non-foundational level, there are several bases
for dialogue and building together.
1.
the evolutionary outlook on religion: the Bahá’í doctrine of
progressive revelation can help the new atheists sharpen their
analysis to avoid the problem of presentism.
2.	 the need to eliminate religious prejudice and a frank recognition
of the crimes committed in the name of religion.
3.	 respect for science and reason and a continued dialogue about
their nature.
4.	 the independent investigation of truth.
5.	 ethical realism, ontological realism and correspondence epis-
temology. In this the new atheism and the Bahá’í Writings are
joined in opposition to various forms of contemporary philosophy
which reject realism in these areas.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Bibliography
`Abdu'l-Bahá

Some Answered Questions. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust.  1981.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette: Bahá’í  Publishing Trust, 1982.

Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1978.
Barbour, Ian G.



When Science Meets Religion. New York: HarperCollins, 2000.

Myths, Modes and Paradigms. New York: Harper & Row, 1974.

Religion and Science. New York: HarperCollins, 1997.
Dawkins, Richard. The God Delusion. New York: Mariner Books, 2006.
Dennett, Daniel, C. Breaking the Spell. New York: Penguin, 2006.
French, Steven. Science: Key Concepts in Philosophy. New York: Continuum-
Books, 2007.
Harris, Sam. The End of Faith. New York: W W Norton & Company, 2004.
Hitchens, Christopher. god Is Not Great. Toronto: McClelland & Stewart, 2007.
McGrath, Alister. Dawkins’ God. Maiden, USA: Blackwell, 2008.
McGrath, Alister & Joanna. The Dawkins Delusion? Downer’s Grove: Inter-varsity
Press, 2007.
Onfray, Michel. In Defense of Atheism. Toronto: Penguin, 2007.
Peacocke, Arthur. Intimations of Reality. Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame

Press, 1984.
Polkinghorne, John.

Belief in God in an Age of Science. Yale University press, 1998.

Science and Technology. London: Spick/Fortress, 1998.
Schooley, Bernal. Immerse © 1998. http://havcamwiltrav.tripod.com/immerse/
index.htm
Steele, David Ramsay. Atheism Explained. Chicago: Open Court, 2008.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
NOTES
A 42 page catalogue specifically detailing these errors in each text is available
upon request from the author by emailing iankluge@netbistro.com
The Catholic Encyclopedia, http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/02040a.htm
Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 232.
Nietzsche, “The Madman” in The Gay Science; see also sections 108 and 343.
Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, Pt.1, XXII, 3.
Ted Honderich, editor, The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 604.
Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, p. 233.
Steven Schafersman, “Naturalism is a Essential Part of Scientific and Critical
Enquiry” (Presented at the Conference on Naturalism, Theism and Scientific
Enterprise, u of Texas, Austin, 1997) http://www.freeinquiry.com/naturalism.
html
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p.57.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 311–312; emphasis added.
Note this reference to ontological materialism.
W. Norris Clarke, S.J., The One and the Many, p. 217.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281. This ‘nothing’ should not be
confused with the vacuum potential in nuclear physics which is not an absolute
nothingness.
This is not an example of the fallacy of composition which obviously does not
apply to existentially constitutive parts. We cannot say that the whole plant
continues to exist even though we have destroyed all of its cells and that my
house continues to exist after the wreckers have hauled all its parts away
Leibniz, “Nothing can be true or real or existing unless there is a sufficient
reason that makes it so and not otherwise.” Monadology, par. 32.
see`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181.
Aristotle, Physics, II, 8.
Aristotle, Physics, II, 7, 198a.
W. Norris Clarke, S.J., The One and the Many, p. 201.
Aristotle: A Modern Appreciation, 48; italics added. See also R. J. Hankinson,
“Philosophy of Science” in The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle, p. 128
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 80.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
ibid.
Ted Honderich, editor, The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 604.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 57.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 232.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p.65; emphasis in original.
Mark Twain quoted in Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, 321.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p.150.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 131.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 45 – 46.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 41.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 96.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 72.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 223; also Daniel Dennett, Breaking the
Spell, p. 78.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 84.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p.223.
Also known as the sentimental fallacy or the anthropomorphic fallacy.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 80.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 71 – 72.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 109 – 115.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 123.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 310.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 221.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 71.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 242.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 96.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p.100 – 102.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 100.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 146; see also 176.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 178.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 176.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Editor’s note: It is worthwhile to note that the author is speaking here of all
religion, and the concept of God as defined in the Bahá’í teachings. These
conceptions are rejected by many, if not most religionists in the world today
including virtually all of those whom the new atheists are reacting against. To
take one example, many Christians insist on the literal physicality of God
and it is a tenet of most fundamentalists that scripture must be understood
literally, by which they often mean, specifically, in physical, materialistic terms
rather than metaphorically or symbolically.  If such beliefs and practices are
considered to be real religion, which is a proposition that most people would
agree with, then many of the criticisms of the new atheists have validity within
those contexts and are not merely “straw man” arguments. From a Bahá’í
perspective however, such irrational and dogmatic ideas are actually irreligion
masquerading as religion and condemned as harmful superstition.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 102.
The chapter is entitled “Proofs and Evidences of the Existence of God.”
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 107.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p. 64 – 65. The statements
about “nothingness” must be understood in light of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s clarification
in SAQ p. 180.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 110 – 132.
The Black Book of Communism, London: Harvard University Press, 1999.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 79.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 250.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 177.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 6.
Immanuel Kant, Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals, http://philosophy.
eserver.org/kant/metaphys-of-morals.txt
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 327.
ibid.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 186; this is another formulation of the cat-
egorical imperative in Kant’s Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals. , http://
philosophy.eserver.org/kant/metaphys-of-morals.txt
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 266.
Christopher Hitchens , god is not Great, p. 256.
Christopher Hitchens , god is not Great, p. 266.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 172.

The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, Chapter Six.
Christopher Hitchens , god is not Great, p. 64.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 25.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 346.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 65.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 66.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 232.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 15.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 44.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 367.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 217.
Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 220.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 200.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 221.
ibid.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 222.
Mark, 9:24
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 280.
For example, An Existential Theology by John Macquarrie.
The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Vol. 1, “Rudolf Bultmann,” p. 424.
Jacob Needleman, Why Can’t We Be Good?, p. 10.
Christopher Hitchens, god Is Not Great, p. 100.
Christopher Hitchens, god Is Not Great, p. 118.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 123.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, p. 116.
Christopher Hitchens, god Is Not Great, p. 64.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 203.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 209.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 218.
Christopher Hitchens, god Is Not Great, p. 99.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 45–46; see also The Promulgation of Universal
Peace, p. 265.
Christopher Hitchens, god Is Not Great, p. 36.
see Some Answered Questions, pp. 104, 135–137.
Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 232;
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 262, 311.
Daniel Dennett, Breaking the Spell, 327.
Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 181.
See Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings,” and “Relativism and the
Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan, Volume 9, 2008.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 251; see also 3, 9.

The Choice of the West for `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Epoch-making Trip
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
A child born in Tehran in 1844 had to leave His homeland at the age
of nine and live the rest of His life in exile. Fifty-five years later the
political landscape in Iran and Turkey, the countries responsible for
His exile and confinement, changed and sealed the fate of the despotic
regimes in those countries. As a result, He gained his freedom and
undertook a long and arduous journey to lands far beyond His familiar
environs. He traveled to areas spread over three continents of the
globe, crossed seas and oceans, and used various modes of transpor-
tation to visit souls longing to see Him and to speak to people eager
to hear His message,. He embarked on the trip despite His old age,
the risk to His failing health, a lack of material means, and the need
for hasty preparations for His colossal undertaking. Although legally
free, His traditional enemies watched Him closely, monitored His
every movement, and did what they could to frustrate His plan. The
trip, a precursor to the revelation of the Tablets of the Divine Plan,
described by Shoghi Effendi “the birthright of the North American
Bahá’í community”(CF 7) could not be postponed. The time was
short, the project had to be accomplished regardless of the obstacles
in His way and the formidable circumstances that prevailed.
The child Who spent almost all His life in exile was `Abbás Effendi,
the eldest Son of Bahá’u’lláh. In His Writings Bahá’u’lláh bestows
upon Him many titles descriptive of His unique station, such as
the Master, the Mystery of God, He Round Whom Revolves All
Names, He Who Sprang from the Ancient Root, and so forth. After

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Bahá’u’lláh passed away, `Abbás Effendi chose `Abdu’l-Bahá (Servant
of Bahá) as His title and required His followers to address Him as
such. This is the name by which He has become known throughout
the Bahá’í world and in outer circles, and that is how He is addressed
in this article.
The reason `Abdu’l-Bahá went into exile at the age of nine had noth-
ing to do with what He had done, or failed to do. His Father had
accepted the Claim of the Báb, Who in 1844 declared in Shiraz that
He was first of the two Manifestations of God expected in Scrip-
ture. The Báb’s mission was to prepare the way for the coming of the
next Manifestation of God, the Promise of All Ages. The Báb was
executed in Tabriz in 1850 by firing squad. His execution, demanded
by the religious establishment and government authorities in Iran,
was expected to extinguish the light of His Cause, diminish the
influence of His teachings, root out the new Order He had brought
and intimidate those who promoted the new Faith He had authored.
Mirzá Husayn-`Alí, entitled Bahá’u’lláh (Glory of God) was the
Manifestation of God the Báb had preceded and Whose coming he
had heralded. Bahá’u’lláh embraced the truth of the Bab’s Revelation
in 1844. He was the most prominent of the Báb’s followers and actively
promoted the Bábí Cause. His activities made Him a target for the
wrath of those who were intent on eradicating the Cause of the Báb.
An attempt on the life of Nasiri’d-Din Sháh in 1852 by three Bábí
youth who held him responsible for the atrocities perpetrated
against their loved ones, provided the authorities with the pretext to
imprison Bahá’u’lláh in mid-1852. After four months imprisonment
in the Síyáh-Chál (Black Pit) of Tehran, He was ordered to leave
Iran. Accompanied by the members of His immediate family, He
left Iran for Baghdad, which was then under the Ottoman rule. The
reason for the banishment was the perception of those in charge of
the country’s affairs that Iran could not enjoy rest and tranquility

The Choice of the West
while Bahá’u’lláh lived there, for prominent Bábís rallied around
Him, sought His guidance and followed His advice.
When Bahá’u’lláh left Iran, He had not yet made publicly known His
own Claim of being the one for whom the Báb had come to prepare
the way and for whose sake He had sacrificed His life. Bahá’u’lláh’s
declaration of His Mission occurred ten years later in Baghdad in
1863 just prior to the time when He and His family were forced to
leave Baghdad to yet another place of exile. The successive banish-
ments imposed on Bahá’u’lláh and His family by the Ottoman Rulers,
who acted under intense pressure from the Persian government to
send Him ever farther away from the Iranian border, culminated in
His imprisonment in the walled city of `Akká, then a desolate city and
penal colony where He lived the rest of His life.
The Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant:
Before Bahá’u’lláh passed away on 29 May 1892, in a document
known as the Book of the Covenant written from beginning to end
in His own hand and bearing His seal, He outlined the salient fea-
tures of His revelation, specified unity as the purpose of religion, and
stipulated that the object of the verses He had revealed in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas two decades earlier about the One to Whom all His followers
were to turn after His Ascension and the One authorized to interpret
His writings, was none other than His eldest son, the Most Great
Branch, Who later adopted `Abdu’l-Bahá as His title. In the same
document He appointed his second son, Mirzá Muḥammad `Alí,
titled the Greater Branch as a successor to `Abdu’l-Bahá and specified
that his station was beneath that of the Most Great Branch.
Hoping to have a leading role in directing the affairs of the Bahá’í com-
munity, Mirzá Muḥammad `Alí soon realized that the contents of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Testament made his aspiration untenable. He resented

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
being overshadowed by the luminosity of his half-brother, Who was
ten years his senior. Recognizing the futility of contesting the authen-
ticity of his Father’s Book of the Covenant, he outwardly accepted
its provisions without abandoning the claim of being `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
equal and of sharing with Him the leadership of the Bahá’í world. His
ambitious and feeble attempts at seeking recognition and exerting his
influence among the believers did not come as a complete surprise. As
far back as 1867 he had exposed his unbridled ambition by claiming
to enjoy a station on par with Bahá’u’lláh. He clandestinely wrote to
some believers in Iran claiming to be the recipient of direct revelation
from God. The confusion occasioned by his claim angered Bahá’u’lláh,
Who clarified the station of His sons and emphasized that steadfast-
ness in His Cause was the cardinal prerequisite for attaining His good
pleasure. He further stated that if any of His sons stepped out from
beneath the shadow of the Tree of the Cause of God, their doings
would be brought to naught.1
When Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of the Covenant was unsealed and read to the
assembled believers, Mirzá Muḥammad `Alí realized that he could not
openly dispute the contents or contest the authenticity of that mighty
Document. However, he vainly argued that safeguarding the unity
of the Bahá’í community, so emphatically stressed by Bahá’u’lláh,
required that he and `Abdu’l-Bahá lead it jointly. He also denied that
`Abdu’l-Bahá was the authorized Interpreter of all of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings. This was crucial to his argument, for otherwise he could
not interpret the Writings as he pleased and confuse the minds of
the people he wanted to influence. When he failed in his attempts to
undermine `Abdu’l-Bahá’s authority, he teamed up with like-minded
people within and outside the community. Together they stopped at
nothing to discredit `Abdu’l-Bahá, to cause Him suffering, even to
endanger His life.
Opposition to `Abdu’l-Bahá started immediately after Bahá’u’lláh’s
Ascension. Its scope widened rapidly, and the campaign of slander

The Choice of the West
aimed at rendering Him ineffective grew in seriousness and inten-
sity. At the instigation of His half brothers and their supporters
who worked in conjunction with hostile and corrupt local officials,
`Abdu’l-Bahá was incarcerated, His movements and the people with
whom He associated were kept under surveillance and His activi-
ties severely restricted. The concerted efforts of His opponents were
aimed at removing Him from the scene and having Him sent to a
faraway place, out of the reach of His family and faithful Bahá’ís.
He was accused of building a fortress on Mount Carmel,2 of having
contrived a new standard used to invite support and incite revolt,3
and of meeting foreigners in `Akká.4
Alarmed by the startling accusations, the central government dis-
patched a commission of enquiry to investigate the charges. The
falsified evidence prepared by Mirzá Muḥammad `Alí and his col-
laborators, despite the cooperation he received from the Commis-
sion, did not achieve what he had fondly hoped: That of removing
`Abdu’l-Bahá from the scene, which would have enabled him to do
as he pleased. The incessant mischievous activities of the Covenant-
breakers and their supporters continued until `Abdu’l-Bahá was
incarcerated within the city walls of `Akká in August 1901.5
Greatly distressed by the news of fresh restrictions on `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s activities and movement, some western believers consulted
together and made a plan: They raised a considerable sum of money
and decided to send a delegation to Constantinople to meet the
Sultan, explain `Abdu’l-Bahá’s innocence and arrange His release. 6
Prominent believers, such as Mrs. Jackson, Hippolyte Dreyfus and
Lua Getsinger were involved. Lua Getsinger and Hippolyte Dreyfus
had, at `Abdu’l-Bahá’s behest met Muzaffari’d-Din Sháh and his
Prime Minister in Paris in 1901, and pleaded for justice on behalf
of the persecuted Bahá’ís in Iran. Encouraged by the success of their
meeting with the Shah, they seem to have conceived a plan to meet
Sultan `Abdu’l-Ḥamíd of Turkey in 1902 and to plead with him to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
order the release of `Abdu’l-Bahá. When informed, `Abdu’l-Bahá
strongly advised against the plan and asked that it be abandoned.
Another Commission of Enquiry headed by a man heavily influenced
by intrigues employed by Mirzá Muḥammad `Alí arrived in late 1907.
This Commission was determined to succeed where the previous one
had failed. The presentation of the elaborate report prepared over
months of collaborative efforts between the Commission and Mirzá
Muḥammad `Alí and his partisans aimed at justifying the recom-
mendation that `Abdu’l-Bahá be sent to “the landlocked sandy wastes
of Fizan”7 coincided with the attempt on the life of Sultan `Abdu’l-
Ḥamíd. Upon receipt, he is reported to have pushed it aside and said:
“Another time will do.”8 That time never came, for in July 1908 the
Young Turks Revolution gained ascendancy and months later the
Sultan was deposed.
The principle aim of the Covenant-breakers was to have `Abdu’l-Bahá
removed from the nerve Centre of the Faith and to take control of the
affairs of the Bahá’í community. In the darkest hours of His ministry,
when the danger to His life seemed real and imminent, `Abdu’l-
Bahá wrote His Will and Testament. In it He explained how Mirzá
Muḥammad `Alí had disqualified himself as His successor, and
appointed his grandson Shoghi Effendi, then a child of tender years,
as the Guardian of the Cause of God. To keep the document safe,
He buried it underground in an unsuspected spot in the basement
of His residence in `Akká, the House of `Abdu’lláh Pashá. `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s sister, the Greatest Holy Leaf, knew of the appointment of
Shoghi Effendi as the Guardian of the Faith, (PP 11) and surely of
the whereabouts of His Testament.

The Choice of the West
The Young Turk’s Revolution Leads to
Freedom from Oppression
Corruption, oppression and lack of concern for the welfare of the
people living under their rule marked the reign of the last Ottoman
emperors. It was during the Caliphate of Sultan `Abdu’l-`Azíz that
Bahá’u’lláh was banished from place to place within his domain,
and endured untold hardships. Sultan `Abdu’l-`Azíz surrounded
himself with ministers who followed “the desires of a corrupt incli-
nation” and “cast behind their backs that which had been committed
into their hands and manifestly betrayed their trust…”(GWB 232)
Bahá’u’lláh counseled the Sultan: “Be bounteous to others as God
hath been bounteous to thee, and abandon not the interests of thy
people to the mercy of such ministers as these.” (ibid) He promised the
monarch that if he inclined his ear unto His speech and observed
His counsel, God would exalt him “to so eminent a position that the
designs of no man on the whole earth can ever touch or hurt thee.”(bid
234)But, as anticipated, the Sultan did not heed Bahá’u’lláh’s
loving counsel and warning. The excesses characterizing his rule,
the injustices perpetrated by officials who served in his court, the
hardships suffered by his people, and the sense of hopelessness that
gripped the population continued during the reign of his successor,
Sultan `Abdu’l-Ḥamíd, and caused widespread resentment.
The situation in Turkey worsened steadily. Acute dissatisfaction with
the status quo and the ruler’s lack of response to the needs of the people
under his rule caused the population, especially the younger generation,
to arise against him. The Young Turks Revolution gained momentum
and in 1908 ushered in an era of social and political change. One of
the demands of the Revolution was the restoration of the constitu-
tion which Sultan `Abdu’l-Ḥamíd had suspended, and the release of
all political prisoners. `Abdu’l-Bahá was not a political figure, but the
trumped up charges against Him were deliberately designed to have
political implications. He had been falsely accused of involvement in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
subversive activities against the central government. When political
prisoners were freed, `Abdu’l-Bahá gained freedom as well. Had there
been a delay, He would not have been able to achieve the work that He
was destined to do, including the completion of the original structure of
the Báb’s Mausoleum, the interment of the remains of the Báb, which
had arrived in the Holy Land ten years earlier, in their permanent rest-
ing place on Mount Carmel, and undertaking His momentous trip to
the west, especially to North America.
The Choice of the West for An Epoch-making Trip
Much had occurred during the fifty-five years Intervening between
the time `Abdu’l-Bahá was exiled from the land of His birth, and
1908 when He gained freedom from the shackles of confinement. He
left Iran as a child accompanying His Father, spent the rest of His
childhood, youth and adulthood moving from land to land, under-
taking responsibilities and challenges in service to Bahá’u’lláh and
His mighty Cause. By the time Bahá’u’lláh passed away, His Faith
had spread not only in Iran, Iraq, and Turkey where He had lived,
but also to other Middle Eastern countries, as well as to far away
areas; the Indian sub-continent, China, some central Asian countries
and parts of North Africa. The sovereigns and rulers of the world
had been addressed by Him, His Most Holy Book, as well as major
Tablets revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, had been published, and
the tenets of His Faith had been set out in more than one hundred
volumes and major works revealed from His Pen.
The pace of progress accelerated during the ministry of `Abdu’l-
Bahá, Bahá’u’lláh’s Successor and the Centre of His Covenant.
He consolidated the Cause of God where Bahá’ís lived, and estab-
lished it in new territories. One area of the globe where the light
of Bahá’u’lláh penetrated shortly after His Ascension was North
America and from there it spread to Europe. The spread of the Faith

The Choice of the West
to the western hemisphere has been described by Shoghi Effendi
as “the most outstanding achievement that will forever be associated
with `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry.” (GPB 279)
The activities of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s opponents that had caused Him
untold suffering during the first sixteen years of His ministry had been
frustrated, but the agitation they fomented continued into the min-
istry of the one He appointed as the Guardian of the Cause of God.
As the Covenant-breakers witnessed the fading of their reputation and
the loss of their status among the believers, their clandestine activities
increased. They stopped at nothing to discredit `Abdu’l-Bahá, Whose
main aim was to spread far and wide the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh,
unite the believers under the banner of His Cause, and help them to
work toward an ever-advancing civilization.
During the first decade of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry, the remains of the
Báb Who had been martyred fifty years earlier, arrived safely in the
Holy Land. Shortly after the arrival of the remains, `Abdu’l-Bahá laid
the foundation stone of the Báb’s Mausoleum, in a groundbreaking
ceremony held in 1900 on Mount Carmel. The original structure,
which `Abdu’l-Bahá built at the instruction of Bahá’u’lláh for the
interment of the remains of the Báb, took nine years to complete.
Almost simultaneously with the arrival of the remains of the Báb
in the Holy Land, and while preparations were being made for the
construction of the Báb’s Mausoleum, a significant event with far-
reaching consequences took place: Western pilgrims, eager to meet
`Abdu’l-Bahá and visit the Sacred Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, set sail in
1898 and arrived in `Akká in several small groups. When restrictions
intensified, there was a halt, but when the rigors of confinement eased,
the numbers increased once again. However, many believers did not
have the means to embark on a transatlantic voyage. For them the
only hope of meeting `Abdu’l-Bahá was if He visited their country.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The returning pilgrims and those who could not make the trip to
the Holy Land sent petitions to `Abdu’l-Bahá pleading with Him to
honor their land with His presence. They even raised funds for His
trip, which He gently declined.9
`Abdu’l-Bahá received invitations not only from the believers but also
from religious leaders, political figures, organizers of peace confer-
ences, and groups concerned with the status of the world and its
future stability. They longed to meet and hear the “Prophet of the
East”, despite His insistence that He was not a prophet but simply
`Abdu’l-Bahá, the Servant of Bahá.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s advanced age, failing health, the pressing matters
that He had to deal with and the world situation made it impossible
for Him to undertake trips to all of the different parts of the globe,
where the Light of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation had penetrated and which
enjoyed religious freedom. In some of His Tablets, He expressed the
wish to visit India, Japan and China, but knew the wish would remain
unfulfilled. When He was in Chicago, members of the Society of
Indians resident in that city attained His presence and read Him an
address of welcome. In it they called His visit to the United States “a
source of honor and grace” to them. In the same address, they said:
[W]e believe that our country, India, will greatly benefit
from a visit from your Excellency. The lack of unity between
the Hindus and Muslims has kept them in the utmost con-
tention and strife. As your Excellency’s teachings are very
much like the teachings of our religious leaders, they will
undoubtedly unite them and make these contending nations
one. We are certain that you will receive the same warmth
and honor in India as here in America… We pray to God to
give your Excellency long life so that you may be enabled to
convey your message to all mankind.10

The Choice of the West
The prevailing circumstances were such that `Abdu’l-Bahá could
make only one trip far away from the Headquarters of the Faith. He
chose a trip to the West, a trip Shoghi Effendi has described as “the
culmination of His ministry”. (GPB 295) Bahá’u’lláh had anticipated
this priceless opportunity during His lifetime, when all worldly forces
were leagued against Him: “In the East the light of His Revelation hath
broken; in the West have appeared the signs of His dominion.”(TB 13)
He further prophesied: “Should they attempt to conceal its light on the
continent, it will assuredly rear its head in the midmost heart of the ocean,
and, raising its voice, proclaim: ‘I am the life-giver of the world!’” (WOB
78–79. These momentous utterances found fulfillment with `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s trip to the west, particularly His transatlantic voyage.
The opportunity to make the trip had to be seized immediately, or it
would have been lost forever. Aware of the upheavals in the making that
threatened international peace, and the short years during which
He could make the trip, He decided the time had come for Him to
take action and fulfill a preordained mission, but did not divulge
His intention regarding a specific time or the places He wanted to
visit aforetime.
In response to invitations from the friends in the United States,
`Abdu’l-Bahá stipulated one condition: “My invitation to America
will be the unity of the believers.” 11 Differences of opinion among
the friends had led to disunity. The cause of the differences was
directly linked to the misdeeds and intrigues of an ambitious person
who had taken the message of Bahá’u’lláh to the United States of
America, and taught many to enlist under the banner of His Cause.
His name was Ibrahim Kheiralla, who, in the words of Shoghi
Effendi, “blinded by his extraordinary success and aspiring after an
uncontrolled domination over the beliefs and activities of his fellow-
disciples, insolently raised the standard of revolt.”12 He “dreamt of
sharing `Abdu’l-Bahá’s authority.”13

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Of Syrian origin and Christian evangelical background, Kheiralla
became a Bahá’í in Egypt in about 1888. In 1894 he migrated to
the United States where he began teaching the Bahá’í Faith with
great success. In 1900 he joined an early group of pilgrims to `Akká,
stayed in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s house as a guest, was received warmly by
Him and praised for the services he had rendered. Acknowledging
his outstanding success in teaching the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh to so
many souls, `Abdu’l-Bahá conferred upon him “the titles of ‘Bahá’s
Peter,’ ‘Shepherd of God’s Flocks,’ and ‘Conqueror of America.’”
However, Kheiralla wanted much more. When he realized that “[t]
he integrity of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s stewardship could not be breached,”14
he rose in opposition to Him, determined to form a following and
exert influence on the Bahá’í community in the west. If rising to
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s stature was not in the equation, discrediting Him
through false accusations and slander could go a long way to fulfill
that intention, especially if he joined hand with those who had a
similar aim. To achieve the purpose, he worked in conjunction with
other Covenant-breakers. He launched “a campaign of unrelenting
vilification against the person of `Abdu’l-Bahá, to undermine the
faith of those believers whom he had during no less than eight years,
so strenuously toiled to convert.” (WOB 82)
Kheiralla defected at a crucial juncture in the fortunes of the Faith in
the West. His collaboration with the traditional enemies of `Abdu’l-
Bahá within and outside the United States, his working in concert
with them to propagate calumnies and the misleading material he
published in English confused the minds of some of the people he
had taught. The believers were divided in their understanding of
Kheiralla’s true standing in the Faith and in the way he comported
himself. `Abdu’l-Bahá sent Tablets emphasizing the importance of
unity. He also dispatched outstanding Bahá’í teachers to the West,
such as `Abdu’l-Karím Tihrání, the man who had taught the Faith
to Kheiralla, Siyyid Asadu’llah Isfahani, and Mirza Abu’l-Fadl who
spent nearly two years in the United States at the beginning of the

The Choice of the West
twentieth century. The purpose of his long sojourn was to deepen the
understanding of the believers in the tenets revealed by Bahá’u’lláh
and to allay the doubts that still lingered in the minds of some believ-
ers. As His own station had become a controversial subject and a
matter of contention, `Abdu’l-Bahá emphasized servitude as His
glorious crown and strongly urged the believers to see and refer to
Him as `Abdu’l-Bahá (Servant of Bahá), and to follow His example.
These efforts were successful to some degree, but restoring health to
the ailing body of the community that had suffered the malady of
disunity, required a powerful antidote. `Abdu’l-Bahá had addressed
the believers’ concerns through correspondence and had dispatched
emissaries to help them overcome the stumbling blocks in the way of
achieving unity, but nothing short of a visit from Him could arouse
them to scale the heights that they achieved after His historic trip,
described by Shoghi Effendi as “a turning point of the utmost signifi-
cance in the history of the century. (GPB 279–280)
`Abdu’l-Bahá spoke of the crucial importance of His trip to the
United States when He was on His way to Kenosha, Wisconsin, a
stronghold of Kheiralla’s activities:
I am bearing the discomforts of this journey with stopovers so
that the Cause of God may be protected from any breach. For
I am still not sure about what is going to happen after me. If I
could be sure, then I would sit comfortably in some corner; I
would not leave the Holy Land and travel far away from the
Most Holy Tomb. Once, after the martyrdom of the Báb, the
Cause of God was dealt a hard blow through Yahya. Again,
after the ascension of the Blessed Beauty, it received another
blow. And I fear that self-seeking persons may again disrupt
the love and unity of the friends. If the time were right and the
House of Justice were established, the House of Justice would
protect the friends.15

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
He then spoke of the devastating effects of disunity at the beginning
of the Islamic dispensation: “Because of certain people who sought
to fulfill their personal desires and who yet counted themselves
among the supporters of the religion, the foundation of Islam was
completely uprooted.”
The Genesis of the Spread of the Bahá’í Faith in the West
In his message of Naw-Ruz 110 BE to the friends in the East, Shoghi
Effendi refers to the astonishing phenomenon of the spread of the
light of Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause to the West. He says the light which
blazed in the midmost heart of a storm in Tihran, emerged from
behind the veils in Baghdad, glowed in the clear glass of Adrianople,
and shed its light on the western hemisphere from the horizon of the
prison city of `Akká, the qiblih of the people of Bahá.16
The western world first heard of the Bahá’í Faith through press
reports and the writings of Orientalists, such as Edward G. Browne17
and Alexander Tumansky.18 Edward Browne had an audience with
Bahá’u’lláh in `Akká in 1890, and left to posterity his matchless
description of the Person he had met. But the person who actively
promoted the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States was Ibrahim
Kheiralla. He set foot there shortly after Bahá’u’lláh’s Ascension,
and began in earnest to teach the Cause. When success crowned
his efforts, he was tempted by insatiable ambition and desired to
be the recognized leader of Bahá’ís in the West. When that dream
proved unattainable, he turned against `Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, and rebelled against His authority. His
rebellion caused a breach of short duration in the community he had
helped establish, and temporarily halted the pace of progress he had
set in motion.

The Choice of the West
Kheiralla is not the first or only person in the history of the Bahá’í
Faith whose success in the teaching field became a grievous test,
exposed his ambition and caused his downfall, while the Faith he
was using for his own selfish ends emerged triumphant and forged
ahead without his presence. It was through Kheiralla’s initial efforts
that the Cause of God was established in several parts of the United
States and through his rebellion and defection that the unity of the
believers was threatened. To receive `Abdu’l-Bahá in their midst, the
greatest gift they could imagine, the faithful believers united under
the banner of the Covenant. His visit galvanized them to arise in
service to the Cause of the Blessed Beauty, the purpose of which is
to unite humankind, and made them worthy of being the recipients,
together with the believers in Canada, of The Tablets of the Divine
Plan, a mandate for the spiritualization of the planet. These Tab-
lets were revealed while World War I was raging, a war that began
shortly after `Abdu’l-Bahá returned to the Holy Land from His
visit to North America and Europe, and ended three years before
His Ascension.
A Pre-ordained Trip
`Abdu’l-Bahá had accompanied His Father into exile when Iran was in
the tight grip of a dictatorial Qajar Shah,19 and the Ottoman Empire
was ruled by a despotic Sultan.20 Fifty-five years later, the Qajar
dynasty and the Ottoman Empire were under seige by devastating
adversities. The Constitutional Revolution was gaining strength
in Iran and the Revolution of the Young Turks was weakening the
foundation of the Ottoman Empire. While those regimes were in
the twilight years of their existence, `Abdu’l-Bahá at the age of sixty-
four was freed from five and half decades of exile and confinement.
Those long years of immense hardship and suffering had taken their
toll on his health and sapped His strength. Nonetheless, when freed,
He wasted no time in putting into action the plan that diffused the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
light of Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause in the West and awakened the conscience
of the world to the urgent need of pursuing practical solutions for
overcoming deep-rooted differences and the establishment of peace.
Bahá’u’lláh was born and raised in Iran, but lived most of His life as
exile in areas under Turkish rule. Turkey and Iran, although political
rivals, had the religion of Islam in common, however each pledged
allegiance to a denomination which the other abhorred: The state
religion of Iran was Shi`ih Islam, while in Turkey and in the Arab
world Sunni Islam was predominantly adhered to. The Shí’ihs of Iran
traveled freely to Iraq, then a part of the Ottoman Empire, where
their twin holy cities of Karbila and Najaf are situated. When the
government of Iran decided to exile Bahá’u’lláh from His homeland
in the hope of curbing His influence, it left the choice of a place to
Him. Bahá’u’lláh agreed to go to Baghdad. After nearly ten years in
that city, the two neighboring powers, seeing that His influence had
actually widened, conspired to further curb His freedom by sending
Him and His family to areas farther away from the Persian border.
Thus, Bahá’u’lláh and His family were exiled to Constantinople
(Istanbul) and then Adrianople (Edirne in modern Turkey). Finally
they were sent to the Penal colony of `Akká as prisoners, where the
exiles were closely watched and expected to perish. However, they
survived and multiplied, albeit with great difficulty and hardship. As
stated earlier, Bahá’u’lláh passed away in 1892 and His body was laid
to rest at Bahjí, His last place of residence, just outside the city of
`Akká.21 `Abdu’l-Bahá continued to live in the citadel of `Akká until
orders were received for His release from confinement.
When freed, `Abdu’l-Bahá was eager to visit the West before His
health condition deteriorated further, and world events interfered,
making it impossible for him to undertake the trip. When the
appointed time came, all forces worked together to bring about the
realization of His plan. `Abdu’l-Bahá embarked on His momentous
journey two years after He was released from years of incarceration.

The Choice of the West
Two kings, Muhammad `Alí Qájár, the Shah of Iran, and Sultan
`Abdu’l-Ḥamíd, the Ottoman Caliph, were dethroned that He may
be freed. Without freedom, He would not have been able to fulfill
His predestined trip to the West. This highly significant remark He
made during His visit to the United States. “Think of it,” He said,
“Two kings were dethroned in order that I may be freed. This is naught
but pure destiny.”22
Before embarking on His long and arduous journey, `Abdu’l-Bahá
was intent on completing the Báb’s Mausoleum and on interring His
remains in their permanent Resting Place, as had been envisaged by
Bahá’u’lláh. The mission was finally complete when on Naw-Ruz
1909, in the presence of pilgrims and resident Bahá’ís, `Abdu’l-Bahá
placed with His own hands the inner casket containing the remains
of the Báb and the disciple23 who had been martyred with Him, in
the marble sarcophagus offered for the purpose by the Bahá’ís of
Rangoon, Burma. The sarcophagus had reached the Holy Land in
good time and been placed in the vault of that Mausoleum, ready to
receive the sacred remains of the Báb.24
To embark on a protracted journey to lands far away from the Holy
Land in fulfillment of a mission decreed by Providence at a time when
means of communication between countries, let alone continents,
were primitive and painfully slow, `Abdu’l-Bahá needed a depend-
able and trustworthy person to serve as His deputy at the nerve
Centre of the Faith. That person was none other than His beloved
sister, Bahá’íyyih Khánum, known in the West as Bahíyyih Khánum,
entitled the Greatest Holy Leaf. Shoghi Effendi says:
And when in pursuance of God’s inscrutable Wisdom, the ban on
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s confinement was lifted and the Plan which He, in the
darkest hours of His confinement, had conceived materialized, He
with unhesitating confidence, invested His trusted and honoured

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
sister with the responsibility of attending to the multitudinous
details arising out of His protracted absence from the Holy Land.25
Preparations for `Abdu’l-Bahá’s journey and arrangements for the
affairs in the Holy Land to function smoothly during His absence,
were all made quietly. If plans were disclosed prematurely, the
Covenant-breakers would have done their utmost to cause disruption
and frustration. Therefore, when on a September afternoon in 1910,
`Abdu’l-Bahá left for Egypt, everyone was taken by surprise. A Tablet
revealed by `Abdu’l-Bahá in honor of the Greatest Holy Leaf, when
He was either about to leave the Holy Land or possibly already on
His way to Egypt, reads:
O thou my sister, my dear sister!
Divine wisdom hath decreed this temporary separation,26 but
I long more and more to be with thee again. Patience is called
for, and long-suffering, and trust in God, and the seeking of His
favor. Since thou art there, my mind is completely at rest.
In recent days, I have made a plan to visit Egypt, if this be
God’s will. Do thou, on my behalf, lay thy head on the sacred
Threshold, and perfume brow and hair in the dust of that Door,
and ask that I may be confirmed in my work; that I may, in
return for His endless bounties, win, if He will, a drop out of
the ocean of servitude.27
When it became known that `Abdu’l-Bahá had left Haifa, Sydney
Sprague28 disclosed the news in a letter to Isabella Brittingham:
I have a very big piece of news to tell you. `Abdu’l-Bahá
has left this Holy Spot for the first time in forty-two years,
and has gone to Egypt. Think of the vast significance and
importance of this step! By it many prophecies of the sacred
Scriptures are fulfilled… Everyone was astounded to hear
of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s departure, for no one knew until the very

The Choice of the West
last minute that he had any idea of leaving... The afternoon
of the day he left, he came to Mírzá Asad Ullah’s home to
see us and sat with us a while beside a new well that has just
been finished and said that he had come to taste the water.
We did not realize that it was a good-bye visit. Then he took
a carriage and went up the hill to the Holy Tomb (of the Báb).
That night, as usual, the believers gathered before the house
of `Abdu’l-Bahá to receive that blessing, which every day is
ours, of being in his presence, but we waited in vain, for one
of the sons-in-law came and told us that `Abdu’l-Bahá had
taken the Khedivial steamer to Port Said.29
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s absence from the Holy Land was soon felt by every-
one. The friends of the family who were not Bahá’ís enquired
about His whereabouts. In a Tablet revealed in honor of His wife,
`Abdu’l-Bahá says:
Should people enquire about My whereabouts, tell them that
certain prominent Americans and Europeans have repeatedly
sought and received promises that I would make a trip to those
areas… be evasive as much as possible… The less said the better
it would be. Tell Dr. Fallscheer also not to divulge the truth, and
thou shouldst not divulge either as far as possible.30
Dr. Fallscheer was the family doctor who lived in Haifa. She was a
close friend and confidant. She knew of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s trip to Egypt
and of His plan to travel to Marseille, where He was to meet “a man
of stature.” In fact, she served as intermediary between `Abdu’l-Bahá
and that person.31 It was a highly confidential meeting. The name of
the person and information about the meeting, whether it took place
and what the outcome was, remained undisclosed.
Egypt was the starting point of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s epoch-making trip,
during which He shed the brilliance of the Light of Bahá’u’lláh’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
revelation on the western world. Juliet Thompson records in her
Diary something `Abdu’l-Bahá said to her when she was on pilgrim-
age in 1909, the year of the entombment of the remains of the Báb.
That statement brings to focus the connection between Bahá’u’lláh’s
utterance about the Light of His Revelation breaking in the East and
the signs of His dominion appearing in the West, also confirming
that if attempts were made to conceal that Light on the land, it would
raise its head in the midmost heart of the ocean. She says: “I was
on the roof of the House in `Akká with the Master and Munavvar
Khanum.32 The Master was pointing to the moon. “The East. The
moon. No!” He said. “I am the Sun of the West.”33
Speaking of the Light of the Kingdom shedding greater illumination
upon the West, `Abdu’l-Bahá says: “The East hath verily been illu-
mined with the light of the Kingdom. Ere long will this same light shed a
still greater illumination upon the West. Then will the hearts of its people
be vivified through the potency of the teachings of God and their souls be
set aglow by the undying fire of His love.” (WOB 79)
Successive attempts over decades at suppressing the Light of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Advent in the land of its birth and in countries under
the Ottoman rule provided the moving force to cause it to appear
in promising lands in North America, whence it spread to the rest
of the western hemisphere. During His travels, `Abdu’l-Bahá met
people of all ranks and backgrounds. With the luminosity of His
unique personality, divine love, wisdom, compassion and under-
standing He transformed many souls and opened before them the
gates of everlasting felicity and salvation. We have on record the
accounts of many converts who have recorded their impressions of
meeting Him face to face. There are also many comments by those
who were not listed among His followers but perceived with their
inner eyes the Light that shone through Him:

The Choice of the West
Diya Pasha, the Ambassador of Turkey, the country that had per-
secuted Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá most unjustly and for so
long, gave a dinner at the Turkish Embassy in honor of the Center
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant. After dinner, he “made a thrilling speech.
Rising and turning a lover’s face to the Master, he called Him ‘the
Light of the world, the Unique One of the age, Who had come to
spread His glory and perfection amongst us’.”34
At a meeting of the New York Peace Society, held at the Hotel Astor,
New York, “Mrs. [Anna Garland] Spencer introduced `Abdu’l-Bahá
as the Prophet of the East and the Messenger of Peace.”35 “The Con-
sul General of Persia [Mr. Topakyan] referred to `Abdu’l-Bahá as the
Beauty of God and the Glory of the East.”36
The governor of Lahore, Khan Bahadur Allah-Bakhsh, called on the
Master at the Hudson Apartment House one early morning in mid-
May 1912. Three days later, Juliet Thompson had a note from him. It
read: “`Abdu’l-Bahá is the Divine Light of today.”37
Mr. Lee McClung, the Treasurer of the United States, met `Abdu’l-
Bahá at Mrs. Parsons’. In response to Juliet Thompson who asked
how he felt when he saw the Master, said: “Well, I felt as though I
were in the presence of one of the great old Prophets: Elijah, Isaiah,
Moses. No, it was more than that! Christ… no, now I have it. He
seemed to me my Divine Father.”38
Lawrence White, a friend of Juliet Thompson’s, had come to New
York from Utica to meet the Master. After seeing `Abdu’l-Bahá at
Mount Morris Baptist Church, he whispered: “Look at Him and see
the Christ.”39
In his review of the history of the first century of the Bahá’í Era
(1844–1944), Shoghi Effendi has drawn a parallel between the
summit reached during Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry, when He proclaimed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
His Message to the rulers of the earth, and that of the ministry of
`Abdu’l-Bahá, when He blazoned “the glory and greatness of His
Father’s Faith among the peoples of the West.” He says:
As the day-star of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation had shone forth in
its meridian splendor at the hour of the proclamation of His
Message to the rulers of the earth in the city of Adrianople,
so did the Orb of His Covenant mount its zenith and shed
its brightest rays when He Who was its appointed Center
arose to blazon the glory and greatness of His Father’s Faith
among the peoples of the West. (GPB 295)
The Ascendancy of the Covenant Empowered `Abdu’l-Bahá
to Undertake His Historic Trip
Shoghi Effendi refers to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s three-year trip to the West
as a mission and explains how the ascendancy of the Covenant made
the fulfillment of that mission possible:
That divinely instituted Covenant… had manifested… before
all mankind, with a force in a measure hitherto unapproached,
its vast potentialities when it empowered Him in Whom its
spirit and its purpose were enshrined to embark on a three-
year mission to the West—a mission so momentous that it
deserves to rank as the greatest exploit ever to be associated
with His ministry.” (ibid)
Confirming the ascendancy of the Covenant by the time `Abdu’l-
Bahá embarked on His trip to the West, H.M. Balyuzi says: “Mirzá
Muḥammad `Alí and his partisans were now thoroughly discredited.
In the absence of `Abdu’l-Bahá from the Holy Land the violators
would have the field entirely to themselves, but their utter inability
to make any move to impair the unity of the Bahá’ís would set the

The Choice of the West
final seal on their downfall. `Abdu’l-Bahá particularly stressed this
fact in a Tablet addressed at the time to a Bahá’í in Iskandarún
(Alexandretta).”40
The early signs of the triumph of the Covenant were discernible when
the western pilgrims arrived in `Akká, spent a few glorious days in
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence, and left completely transformed. By the
time the first group of western pilgrims reached the shores of the
Holy Land, almost all members of Bahá’u’lláh’s family had arisen in
opposition to `Abdu’l-Bahá. The coming of the pilgrims cheered the
heart of the Greatest Holy Leaf and other members of His family
who had for long been deeply concerned for His safety. In the words
Shoghi Effendi:
It was through the arrival of these pilgrims, and these alone,
that the gloom which had enveloped the disconsolate mem-
bers of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s family was finally dispelled. Through
the agency of these successive visitors the Greatest Holy
Leaf, who alone with her Brother among the members of her
Father’s household had to confront the rebellion of almost
the entire company of her relatives and associates, found
that consolation which so powerfully sustained her till the
very close of her life. IWOB 81–82)
When the western pilgrims arrived in `Akká in the concluding years
of the nineteenth century, the stage was set for `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to
North America and Europe some twelve years later:
It was through these pilgrimages, as they succeeded one
another in the years immediately following the ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh, that the splendor of the Covenant, beclouded
for a time by the apparent ascendancy of its Arch-Breaker,
emerged triumphant amidst the vicissitudes which had
afflicted it... By the forces which this little band of returning

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
pilgrims was able to release in the heart of that continent
the death-knell of every scheme initiated by the would-be
wrecker of the Cause of God was sounded. (ibid)
The returning pilgrims ignited the spark of longing for meeting
`Abdu’l-Bahá in the hearts of the believers, most of whom could
not attain His presence due to lack of means. Many of them com-
municated with Him and received His Tablets. Many had heard
from the returning pilgrims accounts of the transformation they
had experienced. These believers, unlike many who lived in the
Middle East and other Islamic countries, enjoyed the blessing of
freedom and could receive `Abdu’l-Bahá in their midst. Therefore,
repeated petitions were sent beseeching Him to honor them with a
visit. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to North America made firmer the steps
of the faithful in the Cause of God, removed doubts from the hearts
of the confused in areas where Covenant-breakers had penetrated,
and emphasized the vital importance of unity and concord among
the friends.

The Treatment of the Qajar Princes Responsible for
the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Iran
Among the people `Abdu’l-Bahá met during His first visit to Europe
was a prince who was personally responsible for the massacre of
Bahá’ís in Isfahan, Iran. Zillu’s-Sultan,41 the eldest son of Nasiri’d-
Din Sháh, and his two sons attained `Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence in
Thonon on Lake Geneva. Juliet Thompson describes the meeting:
In the suite of `Abdu’l-Bahá was a distinguished European42
who had visited Persia and there met Zillah Sultan. One day
when the European was standing on the balustraded terrace
of the hotel in Thonon and `Abdu’l-Bahá was pacing to and
fro at a little distance, Zillah Sultan approached the terrace.
`Abdu’l-Bahá was wearing, as always, the turban, the long

The Choice of the West
white belted robe and long `aba of Persia. His hair, accord-
ing to the ancient custom of the Persian nobility, flowed to
His shoulders. Zillah Sultan, after greeting the European,
immediately asked:
“Who is that Persian nobleman?”
“`Abdu’l-Bahá.”
“Take me to Him.”
In describing the scene later, the European said:
“If you could have heard the wretch mumbling his miserable
excuses!”
But `Abdu’l-Bahá took the prince in His arms.
“All that is of the past,” He answered, “Never think of it again.
Send your two sons to see me. I want to meet your sons.”
They came, one at a time. Each spent a day with the Master.
The first43 though an immature boy, nevertheless showed
Him great deference. The second,44 older and more sensitive,
left the room of `Abdu’l-Bahá, where he had been received
alone, weeping uncontrollably.
“If only I could be born again,” he said, “into any other family
than mine.”
For not only had many Bahá’ís been martyred during his
uncle’s reign (upwards of a hundred by his father’s instiga-
tion), and the life of `Abdu’l-Bahá threatened again and
again, but his grandfather, Nasir’d-Din Sháh, had ordered
the execution of the Báb, as well as the torture and death of
thousand of Bábís.
The young prince was “born again”—a Bahá’í.45
Another prince who attained `Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence in Britain
during His second visit to that country was Mahmud Mirza, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Jalalu’d-Dawlih. It was during his governorship of Yazd, Iran, that
the Bahá’ís of the area suffered unprecedented atrocities in 1903
and many were martyred. “He was now a broken man and an
exile, seemingly contrite, asking for forgiveness. He threw himself
at `Abdu’l-Bahá’s feet, but `Abdu’l-Bahá would not permit him to
humiliate himself.”46
The Reaction of Persian Diplomatic Representatives
In the United States of America and in Europe `Abdu’l-Bahá met
Iranian officials and potentates who spontaneously expressed their
pleasure and appreciation for what His visit had done for their coun-
try. Several years earlier such meetings would have been unthinkable,
for Bahá’ís were relentlessly persecuted in that country as a matter of
state policy, dictated by the clergy.
The Iranian dignitaries in the United States witnessed with delight
the admiration and respect for `Abdu’l-Bahá among the inhabitants
of that country. They were proud that His visit was the cause of great
glory for Iran and the East. The Consul-General for Persia in New
York, Mr. Topakiyan invited Him and His retinue to luncheon in his
New York home, and “arranged as well, for some notabilities to meet
`Abdu’l-Bahá and some newspapermen to interview Him.47
The Persian Minister in London, Mushiru’l-Mulk, visited `Abdu’l-
Bahá shortly after He arrived there in December 1912, and heard
from Him “of His work in America—‘winning everlasting victories
which will bring unfading glory to the peoples of the East.’”48 A few
weeks later, the same Minister “gave a dinner party for `Abdu’l-Bahá
at the Legation. The Minister and his staff rejoiced over the news of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to Scotland, the reception accorded to Him in
Edinburgh.” The press reports were clear proof that He “had indeed
brought glory to the people of the Orient…even as He had described

The Choice of the West
it to the Minister, in their first meeting.”49
The Persian Minister in Paris, `Abdus-Samad Khan, the Mumtazu’s-
Saltanih “called on `Abdu’l-Bahá a week after His arrival. A number
of noted Easterners were also present, who were united in saying that
they felt very much at home in the presence of `Abdu’l-Bahá.”50
A prominent member of the Iranian aristocracy, Dust-Muhammad
Khan, the Mu`ayyiru’l-Mamalik, son-in-law of Muzaffari’d-Din
Shah (1896–1907), “had become so attached and devoted to the
person of `Abdu’l-Bahá that he was always seeking His presence, and
could almost be counted a member of His retinue.”51
These and other examples of unhindered association, based on
mutual respect and friendship, between `Abdu’l-Bahá and officials
of the Persian government make one wonder if the same would have
been possible, had He travelled to any other part of the globe.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Public Addresses
By personally addressing large gatherings of eager seekers in the
free world, `Abdu’l-Bahá proclaimed what His Father had revealed
several decades earlier. He explained how the ultimate goal of the
unity of humankind and universal peace could be achieved. He con-
veyed Bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings in their purest form to those who were
hearing it for the first time. He also corrected the misunderstandings
and misconceptions that had crept in through self-seeking individuals
who promoted their own interests in the guise of teaching the Bahá’í
Faith. This priceless opportunity, had it been missed, would have
not come about again, for World War I broke out shortly after He
returned from His trip to the Holy Land, and three years after the
end of the war He passed away in November 1921. With His visit
to the West, for the first time in the annals of religious history, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
light of the Sun of Truth, which had risen in the east, illumined the
West by the One whom Bahá’u’lláh had appointed the Centre of His
Covenant and the infallible Interpreter of His Words.
`Abdu’l-Bahá had also received invitations from organizations that
were eager to meet and seek enlightenment from Him. The world
was moving toward a conflict that would engulf many countries. The
threat of World War I was looming high. Many organizations were
hard at work to promote goodwill among people and raise conscious-
ness regarding the perils of war. Their ideas often revolved around
the economic, social and political ills afflicting people of diverse back-
grounds. `Abdu’l-Bahá stressed the pivotal principles enunciated by
Bahá’u’lláh; that the oneness of humanity was the basic prerequisite
for addressing the ills afflicting humanity, that prejudices of all kinds
had to be eliminated, that education had to become universal and
compulsory, that preferences accorded people on the basis of gender
and color of skin had to give way to equal rights for all. His mes-
sage was spiritual in nature. He advocated a civilization in which the
material and spiritual aspects were well balanced.
Among the conferences `Abdu’l-Bahá attended in the United States
was Lake Mohonk International Peace Conference. It was one of
the most prestigious organizations searching for peaceful solutions
to the problems assailing humanity. The eighteenth annual session
of the conference on international arbitration was held 15–17 May
1912 at Lake Mohonk, New York. The attendance included delegates
and visitors from many countries. `Abdu’l-Bahá had been invited and
accepted to participate. Announcing the Conference, the “Evening
Sun” of New York City, the 8 May 1912 issue, number 25068, wrote:
The eighteenth annual Lake Mohonk Conference on Inter-
national Arbitration will meet by invitation of Albert Smiley
at Mohonk Lake, New York, May 15–17, the members of
which will include distinguished men from many countries.

The Choice of the West
Prominent among these speakers from abroad will be…
Abdul Baha Abbas of Persia, leader of the Bahai movement.
Under the headline “ABDUL BAHA LECTURES ON THE
RELIGION OF PEACE”, the Pittsburgh Press on 8 May 1912
reported on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk on the night of 7 May in the Hotel
Schenley “to an attentive audience of about 400 persons”:
He is of absolute simplicity of manner, is unostentatious
and unpretentious and delivered his message cheerfully, ear-
nestly and quickly. The Bahai religion emanates from Persia
and is promulgating an era of peace, and unity in language,
politics and spiritual creeds. The Universal Brotherhood of
man is the doctrine of this religion… Abdul Baha is the son
of Baha-O’llah, who founded the religion. He is venerable in
appearance, with long white hair and beard, and with strong,
kindly, peaceful expressive features…
Abdul-Baha said the Bahais believe in the equality of women
with men, for until women have an equal voice in the affairs
of the world, war will not be abolished. They believe in the
harmony of science and religion; in the oneness of life with
all good; in religious adjustment of political economical con-
ditions; in temperate, reasonable living; in being happy and
contented; and in following the teachings of the founder of
the religion of love, Jesus of Nazareth.
Various churches and societies of Pittsburg were represented
in audience. New Thoughtists, Theosophists, Christian
Scientists and Unitarians met with the most orthodox of
religious denominations…
He also will address the Mohonk Peace conference in New
York State this month.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Under the heading “JERSEY CITY TO HEAR A PEACE MIS-
SIONARY” , The Urban Gazette, number 25104, wrote on 16
May 1912:
Famous Abdul Baha Will Talk at Brotherhood Church Sunday Night
There seems to be one man who has succeeded in impressing
the world with his disinterested sincerity, as well as with his
practical and spiritual power in the advocacy of international
peace and the universal brotherhood of man. That man is
`Abdu’l-Bahá, of Persia. The history of this man is one of the
remarkable things of all history. In exile and prison under
the tyranny of the Turkish Government on account of his
own and his father’s religious convictions, since he was nine
years old, these two men have attracted to their prison in
Acca, Syria people from all over the world to get the wonder-
ful inspiration of their message.
In an article headed: “PERSIAN TO EXPLAIN HIS CULT,” the
Evening Transcript of Boston, number 25114, dated 18 May 1912,
wrote:
...Far from being a poetical presentation of new Oriental
mysticism or the principles of a new cult, the Bahai move-
ment’s principles are disclosed to be the last word in the
most advanced social, economic, educational, political and
religious thought of the day. The keynote of the utterances
of the Persian who for half a century has been known to the
East, but little known in Western Europe, or America, is
unity and universalism.
Abdul Baha declares that over fifty years ago one of the chief
lessons his father sought to impress upon his followers was
the necessity for world peace through the instrumentality

The Choice of the West
of arbitration treaties. He develops this idea to the extent
even of providing for the terms of a treaty for international
arbitration, international police and a gradual disarmament.
He also advocates the blending of the world’s religions, pro-
testing against differences of creeds. “The true foundations
of all faiths must be established,” he writes. “There must be
a oneness of faith.”
Even a universal language is advocated. “The differences of
languages cause disunion between nations,” reads another
paragraph. “There must be a universal auxiliary language.”
Equality of the sexes is maintained to be the proper condition.
The only reason why woman is not so advanced as man is given
as a lack of education.
With religion, morals, education, work, government and
other subjects the writings deal, yet pervading them all is
the ideal of unity and a common world family.
Speaking of the general theme of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s discourses and the
influence He had exerted on the public, “The World” as established
by Joseph Pulitzer, wrote on 13 July 1912 in the section “Notes and
News of the Churches”:
Everywhere his addresses have been followed by a strong
wave of influence toward Christian harmony and Christian
recognition of a wider unity which is to comprise a real
brotherhood and reconciliation among all religious systems
of East and West.
When `Abdu’l-Bahá reached London, after His visit to North America,
reporters asked Him about the purpose of His visit. He said:
I have come from America where I travelled for nine months. I
went to every city, spoke in their churches and meeting places.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
I was invited to many conferences, such as the Lake Mohonk,
visited universities. Everywhere I was invited to speak. My
talks were based on Bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings. Based on those
Teachings, I called everyone to universal peace, peace among
religions, peace among nations, governments, regions. I set
forth arguments about the necessity of peace. I proved, based on
rational proofs, that in this day the greatest and most essential
of all affairs is universal peace. It is the cause of comfort for
the world of humanity, the most effective means for the resolu-
tion of problems. This is the century of light, the century for
the advancement of mental faculty and thoughts… It is befit-
ting that in a century such as this all nations become united, all
religions come together in unity, all regions become one, for the
world of humanity is like a single tree, religions and nations are
like its branches and boughs….52
He was again asked on 27 December about the purpose of His visit.
He said: “I have come to promote divine civilization, the civilization that
Bahá’u’lláh has established in the east, the civilization that would promote
good character, the civilization that is the cause of universal peace, the
civilization that promotes the unity of humankind.”53


Reflection
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s childhood journey in the mid-1800’s was arduous
and fraught with hazards. It was intended to root out the influence
of His Father’s Teachings and extinguish the Light of His Cause. It
was a journey imposed on Him by temporal tyrannical authorities,
a journey that presaged no return to His homeland. That journey
involved a sojourn of ten years in Baghdad, four months in Constan-
tinople (Istanbul), five years in Adrianople (Edirne), and ultimately
consigned Him to spend the rest of His life in a penal colony of the
Ottoman Empire, which is a part of Israel today. Bahá’u’lláh and His

The Choice of the West
family reached the shores of the Holy Land in 1868. The imperial
decree, issued under pressure from Persian authorities, which brought
Bahá’u’lláh and His family to `Akká, fulfilled scriptural prophecies
about the Lord of Hosts appearing in the Promised Land.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s journey to the West was also arduous and fraught with
hazards. However, unlike His childhood journey, it was initiated
without the intervention of any temporal power. It was a journey
undertaken when He was finally free to go where He pleased and
over which He had full authority, a journey that blazoned the name
of Bahá’u’lláh and spread the Light of His Revelation far and wide. It
was the exact opposite of what the adversaries had hoped to achieve.
The scheme of sending Bahá’u’lláh to a place where His followers
could not reach Him, resulted, sixty years later, in the Centre of His
Covenant appearing in the western world, where He raised the ban-
ner of His Cause among the people eager to hear His message, and
won the admiration of those genuinely interested in the oneness of
humanity and the establishment of an enduring peace.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Bibliography
Bahiyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1982, p 39.
The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, A Compilation. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1963,
p. 126–27.
Abdulhamidi Eshraghekhavar, Mayidiy-i-Asmani, Tehran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, ,
128 b, (1971) vol. 4, p. 361.
Baharieh Rohani Maani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees. Oxford: George Ronald,
2009, pp 171–172.
Tawqi`at-i-Mubarakih Hadrat-i Valyy-i Amru’llah, addressed to the believers in the East.
Langenhein: Bahá’í Verlag, 1992, p 470.
Juliet Thompson, `Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Wil-
mette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1948,
Juliet Thompson, The Diary of Juliet Thompson. Los Angeles: Kalímát Press 1983
Maḥmud Zarqání, Badayi`u’lathar (Maḥmud’s Diary), vol 2. Langenhein: Bahá’í
Verlag, 1982.
Maḥmud Zarqání, Maḥmud’s Diary. Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.
NOTES
Abdulhamidi Eshraghekhavar, Mayidiy-i-Asmani, Tehran: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, , 128 b, (1971) vol. 4, p. 361. also The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, A Compi-
lation. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1963, p. 126–27
Juliet Thompson, `Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1948, pp 113 and 121.
Ibid 113

The Choice of the West
Ibid 114
Ibid 114, 129
Ibid 107
Ibid 119, 122
Ibid 123
Maḥmoud-i-Zarqání, Maḥmud’s Diary., trans. by Mohi Sobhani. Osford:
George Ronald, 1998, p. 8.
Ibid 75
Juliet Thompson, The Diary of Juliet Thompson. Los Angeles: Kalímát Press
1983, p 177.
Ibid 82.
Thompson 1948 `Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh p 85.
Ibid 85
Mahmud’s Diary, p. 268
Tawqi`at-i-Mubarakih Hadrat-i Valyy-i Amru’llah, addressed to the believers in
the East, p. 470.
A British scholar, who visited `Akka and Iran and published material about the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths in English.
A Russian scholar, who lived in Iran for some time, was in touch with Mirza
Abu’l-Fadl, translated and published the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and other Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh in Russian.
Nasiri’d-Din Shah
Sultan `Abdu’l-`Aziz
Bahá’u’lláh’s resting place is the Most Holy Spot in the Bahá’í world, it is the
qiblih, and a place of pilgrimage.
The Diary of Juliet Thompson, p. 292
The body of Mirza Muhammad-`Aliy-i Zunuzi, a young disciple who insisted
on being executed with the Báb, was mangled with that of His beloved Master.
The remains were interred together in the vault of the Shrine of the Báb on
Naw-Ruz 1909.
The remains of the Báb and His disciple were rescued from the moat where
they were placed after execution, and kept safe for fifty years in different
places in Iran until they were sent to the Holy Land. The remains reached the
Haifa/`Akka area before the end of the nineteenth century. Shortly after their
safe arrival, `Abdu’l-Bahá began the construction of a mausoleum in the heart
of Mount Carmel. It is known as the Shrine of the Báb.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Bahiyyih Khanum, the Greatest Holy Leaf, p. 39.
The use of the term “divine wisdom” in this Tablet indicates that a force beyond
personal choice prompted `Abdu’l-Bahá to make the trip.
Bahiyyih Khanum, the Greatest Holy Leaf, p. 13, also Leaves of the Twin Divine
Trees, pp. 171–172
Sydney Sprague was married to Farangís Khanum, daughter of Siyyid
Asadu’llah Isfahani and Razíyih Khanum, Munirih Khanum’s sister. Farangis
Khanum is the sister of Dr. Amin (Ameen) Fareed who later broke the Cov-
enant and caused the downfall of the immediate members of his family. Sydney
Sprague later realized his mistake, sought pardon, and his membership in the
Bahá’í community was reinstated.
Thompson 1948, p. 134
Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 344
Ibid, p. 343
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s youngest daughter.
The Diary of Juliet Thompson, p. 232.
The Diary of Juliet Thompson, p. 276.
Mahmud’s Diary, p. 99
Ibid
The Diary of Juliet Thompson, pp. 285–86
Ibid, p. 280
Ibid, p. 296
`Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, p. 133
During his governorship of Isfahan, the King of Martyrs, the Beloved of
Martyrs, and a large number of Baha’is were brutally killed.
Mr. Hippolyte Dreyfus, a distinguished European lawyer and a prominent
Baha’i.
Prince Bahram Mirza.
Sultan Husayn Mirza
Thompson, `Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 19–20.
Ibid, p. 346
Ibid, p. 226
Ibid, p. 347
Ibid, pp 368–369

The Choice of the West
Ibid, p. 374
Ibid, p. 347
Maḥmud Zarqání, Badayi`u’lathar (Maḥmud’s Diary), vol 2. Langenhein:
Bahá’í Verlag, 1982, p. 39, (paraphrased by this writer).
Ibid, p. 44

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking:
A Bahá’í Contribution to Religious Thought
Moojan Momen
The key feature of classical religious apocalyptic thinking is that affairs are
static until they are suddenly moved from one state to another by God.
Thus the change in affairs is sudden and immediate and it is supernaturally
directed and actioned. Human beings are passive participants in this in
that although the change usually affects them they play no part in bring-
ing the change about. The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh initiated a change in this
type of religious thinking. They initiated the idea that religious change is
a process not a jump from one state to another and that it is to be brought
about through human effort and not by a magical Divine intervention. In
this paper, this change in religious thinking will be examined in relation
to Bahá’í expectations of the peace, about which there was a great deal of
apocalyptic thinking in the years prior to 2000. The main features that are
a precondition or accompaniment of peace as described in the Bahá’í texts
are listed and then the extent to which these have come to pass in the course
of the twentieth century is considered. From this, a sequence of four stages
for the fulfillment of these features is delineated. It is furthermore suggested
that all of these features reached the third stage during the twentieth cen-
tury. It is therefore for this reason that the Universal House of Justice was
able at the close of the 20th century to confirm `Abdu’l-Bahá’s description of
this century as the “Century of Light”.
There are a number of ways in which the religion initiated by the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh produced a major change in structures of religious
thought. One of these is the change from what I will for the purposes
of this paper call apocalyptic thinking to process thinking.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
In classical religious apocalyptic thinking, affairs are static until they
are suddenly moved from one state to another by God. The key fea-
tures of this then are that the change is sudden and immediate and
it is supernaturally directed and actioned. Human beings are passive
participants in this in that although the change usually affects them
they play no part in bringing the change about. This type of thinking
tends to see matters in black-and-white terms and favours the literal
and physical interpretation of texts.
The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh initiated a change in this type of religious
thinking. They initiated the idea that religious change is a process not
a jump from one state to another and that it is to be brought about
through human effort and not by a magical Divine intervention. This
type of thinking favours the spiritual and metaphorical interpretation
of texts and texts to see matters as a rainbow of colours or shades of
grey—rather than black-and-white. Thus for example, the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh came to a world that was expecting, as a result of their
reading of their scriptures, that the Promised One would arrive and
within a short space of time defeat the forces of evil and establish
justice throughout the world. After this would come the Day of
Judgement or Day of Resurrection. All of these were events that
would happen by Divine intervention suddenly and within a short
space of time. Humans would for the most part, especially in rela-
tion to the events of the Day of Resurrection, be passive participants.
The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh spent much of their ministries and much of
their writings with interpreting these religious expectations. They
explained that these passages of scripture are metaphorical and
spiritual descriptions, not intended to be taken literally. God does not
work in this magical interventionist way. The scriptures of the past do
write of a Day of God but they also write that a day of God is as one
thousand years in human reckoning. The promised saviour will estab-
lish his sovereignty and will establish justice in the world but it will
be a slow process taking one thousand years. Furthermore, it will be

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
the actions of human beings that will bring about this transformation.
This may be described as a change from static, magical or apocalyptic
thinking to process thinking.
However, this change in religious thinking is not just confined to
interpretation of the prophecies of the past. It also applies to the
vision that the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith present about
the future direction of the world. While the interpretations of past
prophecies have been comparatively easy for the Bahá’í community
to accept and internalize, this application of the new way of thinking
has been more difficult to adopt when projected forward to future
events. In this paper, I want to examination this change of religious
thinking by examining an example that demonstrates this.
The Bahá’í Teachings about Peace
One of the main features of the vision of a future society that
Bahá’u’lláh brings is that there will be peace. This peace is envisaged
as occurring in two stages: The Lesser Peace (which is how Shoghi
Effendi translates both ṣulḥ’-i-aṣ’ghar and ṣulḥ’-i akbar), a political
peace brought about by the governments of the world and needing
to be enforced; a Greater Peace or Most Great Peace (ṣulḥ’-i a`ẓ’am),
an enduring more deeply-rooted peace brought about by the wide-
spread acceptance of the Bahá’í teachings. Although many Bahá’ís
think of these two as successive events, first the Lesser Peace and
then the Most Great Peace, it will appear from the evidence I cite in
this paper that the authoritative Bahá’í texts see these two processes
as intertwined and evolving together. Among the features and neces-
sary pre-conditions for peace found in the writings of the Central
Figures of the Bahá’í Faith it is sometimes not clear whether the
feature refers to the Lesser Peace or the Most Great Peace, but since
these are concurrently developing and inter-twined processes, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
difference need not concern us here. The following is a list of these
features and pre-conditions:
1. The need for a world assembly of leaders and governments that would
confer for the purpose of establishing peace. (GWB 249), (ESW30–
31), (SDC,  64–5) This would be a feature of the Lesser Peace.
2. The establishment by the world’s leaders of arrangements about
collective security—an agreement made that if any government later
violate any one of the provisions of these treaties, “all the governments
on earth should arise to reduce it to utter submission.” (GWB 249; ESW
31; SDC 65). This would be a feature of the Lesser Peace.
3. The establishment of the World Commonwealth, Shoghi Effendi
says that this ‘momentous and historic step’ will involve the ‘recon-
struction of mankind, as the result of the universal recognition of its
oneness and wholeness’ (PDC 122).
4. Another key feature of peace described by Shoghi Effendi, is that
of ‘some form of a world superstate’ that must needs be ‘be evolved’
(WOB. 40), although this would appear to be more of a feature of the
Most Great Peace than of the Lesser Peace.
5. The general features of this world commonwealth and world super-
state should include:
• “This commonwealth must, as far as we can visualize it,
consist of a world legislature, whose members will, as the
trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the
entire resources of all the component nations, and will
enact such laws as shall be required to regulate the life,
satisfy the needs and adjust the relationships of all races
and peoples.

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
• A world executive, backed by an international Force, will
carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws
enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the
organic unity of the whole commonwealth.
• A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory
and final verdict in all and any disputes that may arise
between the various elements constituting this universal
system.
• A mechanism of world intercommunication will be devised,
embracing the whole planet, freed from national hindrances
and restrictions, and functioning with marvellous swiftness
and perfect regularity.
• A world metropolis will act as the nerve center of a world
civilization, the focus towards which the unifying forces of
life will converge and from which its energizing influences
will radiate.
• A world language will either be invented or chosen from
among the existing languages and will be taught in the
schools of all the federated nations as an auxiliary to their
mother tongue.
• A world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal
system of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify
and facilitate intercourse and understanding among the
nations and races of mankind.”(WOB 203–4)
6. Among the characteristics of the world society in which this
super-state will operate as described by Shoghi Effendi as being:
• ‘all economic barriers will have been permanently
demolished’
• ‘the interdependence of Capital and Labour definitely
recognized’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
• ‘the clamour of religious fanaticism and strife will have been
forever stilled’
• ‘the flame of racial animosity will have been finally
extinguished’
• a single code of international law—the product of the
considered judgment of the world’s federated representa-
tives—shall have as its sanction the instant and coercive
intervention of the combined forces of the federated units’
• ‘the fury of a capricious and militant nationalism will have
been transmuted into an abiding consciousness of world
citizenship’ (WOB 41)
7. The presence of peace should allow nations to disarm and reinvest
their expenditure on armaments into constructive developmental
activities. This principle was first stated by Bahá’u’lláh (TB 165)
To this list should also be added the Seven Candles of Unity that
`Abdu’l-Bahá lists and links to peace:
Hence the unity of all mankind can in this day be achieved.
Verily this is none other but one of the wonders of this won-
drous age, this glorious century. Of this past ages have been
deprived, for this century—the century of light—hath been
endowed with unique and unprecedented glory, power and
illumination. Hence the miraculous unfolding of a fresh marvel
every day. Eventually it will be seen how bright its candles will
burn in the assemblage of man.
Behold how its light is now dawning upon the world’s darkened
horizon.
• The first candle is unity in the political realm, the early glim-
merings of which can now be discerned.

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
• The second candle is unity of thought in world undertakings,
the consummation of which will erelong be witnessed.
• The third candle is unity in freedom which will surely come
to pass.
• The fourth candle is unity in religion which is the corner-stone
of the foundation itself, and which, by the power of God, will
be revealed in all its splendour.
• The fifth candle is the unity of nations—a unity which in this
century will be securely established, causing all the peoples
of the world to regard themselves as citizens of one common
fatherland.
• The sixth candle is unity of races, making of all that dwell on
earth peoples and kindreds of one race.
• The seventh candle is unity of language, i.e., the choice of a
universal tongue in which all peoples will be instructed and
converse.
Each and every one of these will inevitably come to pass, inas-
much as the power of the Kingdom of God will aid and assist in
their realization. (SWAB 32)
In all, from these passages, a list of about 25 points related to the
coming of peace can be drawn up.
Bahá’í expectations of the Lesser Peace
It is clear that many Bahá’ís, locked into the older static pattern of
religious thought were expecting the Lesser Peace to arrive through
a miraculous Divine intervention. From as early as the start of the
twentieth century, Bahá’ís were speculating as to the date that it
would arrive. One of the first to set a date for the arrival of peace

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
was Ibrahim Kheiralla, who interpreting a prophecy in Daniel,
concluded that peace would come in 1917. Although Kheiralla was
discredited and expelled from the Bahá’í community, his idea about
the “time of the end” and the dawn of peace occurring in 1917 lived
on in the Bahá’í community and was referred to by other Bahá’ís.1
Even after this date passed, however, the expectation of a sudden
advent of world peace continued. The Second World War obviously
made some think that this was the calamity that should precede the
advent of peace. Some focused on the year 1957, because of their
understanding of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s words regarding a prophecy in the
Bible, others looked to 1963 as the fulfilment of that same prophecy.
The centenary of the proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the kings and
leaders of the world excited attention because the Universal House
of Justice, in referring to this wrote that “the hundred years’ respite”
has ended and “the struggle between the forces of darkness—man’s
lower nature—and the rising sun of the Divine teachings which draw
him on to his true station, intensifies day by day.” (The Universal
House of Justice, Messages 1963 to 1986, p. 113). The centenary
of the passing of Bahá’u’lláh in 1992 was another occasion when
expectations heightened. Up to the year 2000, it was not unusual
to find Bahá’ís stating that the Lesser Peace would come by the
year 2000.2  Evidence of the continuing speculation among Bahá’ís
regarding this matter can be found in the need that the Universal
House of Justice felt to issue letters trying to play down these expec-
tations among Bahá’ís.3 The significant aspect of these predictions
was that those Bahá’ís who were most involved in these speculations
usually expected peace to arrive out of thin air, with no human effort
required. They were, thus, caught up in what I have named above as
an apocalyptic mode of thought.
This mode of apocalyptic thought existed despite the fact that the
authoritative Bahá’í texts say something different. What is clear
from texts that we have from `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi is

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
that the coming of the Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace is a
slow evolving process:
Gradually whatsoever is latent in the innermost of this Holy
Cycle shall appear and be made manifest, for now is but the
beginning of its growth and the dayspring of the revelation of
its Signs. Ere the close of this Century and of this Age, it shall
be made clear and manifest how wondrous was that Springtide
and how heavenly was that Gift! (BA 15–16)
The kingdom of peace, salvation, uprightness, and reconcili-
ation is founded in the invisible world, and it will by degrees
become manifest and apparent through the power of the Word
of God! (BWF 409)
To the general character, the implications and features of
this world commonwealth, destined to emerge, sooner or
later, out of the carnage, agony, and havoc of this great world
convulsion, I have already referred in my previous communi-
cations. Suffice it to say that this consummation will, by its
very nature, be a gradual process…. (PDC 122–3)
Peace as a Process
I now propose to show how process thinking has been applied
by the Bahá’í leaders to these 25 points related to the coming of
peace. When at the end of World War I, Woodrow Wilson drew
up his 14 points to be the guiding principles for an enduring peace
and established the League of Nations, `Abdu’l-Bahá is reported by
Shoghi Effendi to have declared that these achievements signalled
the “Dawn of the Most Great Peace”. (CF 36). This points to the fact
that the developments towards the Lesser Peace and the Most Great
Peace are intertwined and occurring together not successively.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Similarly, Shoghi Effendi, writing in 1936, hailed a decision by the
League of Nations in October 1935 to sanction Italy for an act of
aggression towards Ethiopia as “one of the most distinctive milestones
on the long and arduous road that must lead it to its goal, the stage
at which the oneness of the whole body of nations will be made the
ruling principle of international life.” ( WOB 193).
This quotation establishes an important point of principle in this way
of thinking about world events. Even though that particular action
of the League of Nations was unsuccessful, the important point for
Shoghi Effendi was that the principle had been established—for
him this was an important step—it would only be a matter of time
before the principle would be universally enforced. In other words
that things progress by a number of steps: that first a principle is
established in one particular case then gradually it becomes more
universally acknowledged.
Writing in 1941, and despite being in the midst of World War II,
Shoghi Effendi commented on yet further progress along the path
towards peace:
The world is, in truth, moving on towards its destiny. The
interdependence of the peoples and nations of the earth,
whatever the leaders of the divisive forces of the world may
say or do, is already an accomplished fact. Its unity in the eco-
nomic sphere is now understood and recognized. (PDC 200)
This points to another principle that: that there may be what appear
to be major reverses at the hands of the “leaders of the divisive forces
of the world” but that such reverses are only temporary and may
even be necessary steps in the long-term evolving process described
in the Bahá’í texts. This fact is more clearly enunciated in the fol-
lowing quotation:

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Whatever the present status of the League or the outcome of
its historic verdict, whatever the trials and reverses which, in
the immediate future, it may have to face and sustain, the fact
must be recognized that so important a decision marks one of
the most distinctive milestones on the long and arduous road
that must lead it to its goal, the stage at which the oneness of
the whole body of nations will be made the ruling principle of
international life. (WOB 193)
Features of the Processes leading to Peace
We can now look at the various features that are necessary precondi-
tions or accompaniments of the process towards peace and see how far
the process leading to this progressed during the twentieth century.
A. The first element of the Lesser Peace that we can look at is the
need for a world assembly of leaders and governments that would
confer for the purpose of establishing peace. (Bahá’u’lláh GWB 249;
`Abdu’l-Bahá, SDC 64–5)
Now it is clear that the convocation called for by Bahá’u’lláh and
`Abdu’l-Bahá has not occurred but it is equally clear that the establish-
ment of the League of Nations, the United Nations and particularly
the round of major summits that occurred in the last decade of the
twentieth century, bringing together world leaders to discuss such
subjects as sustainable development, the position of women, the
environment and particularly the Millennium Summit that brought
the world leaders together to review the past and look forward to the
future—these are all important advances towards that process.
B. Among the items that the Bahá’í writings state that the world’s
leaders need to agree about are arrangements about collective secu-
rity—an agreement made that if any government later violate any

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
one of the provisions of these treaties, “all the governments on earth
should arise to reduce it to utter submission.” (SDC 65)
Such arrangements have existed in theory ever since the establishment
of the League of Nations. Indeed when in October 1935, the League
decided to impose sanctions on Italy over its invasion of Ethiopia,
Shoghi Effendi acclaimed this:
For the first time in the history of humanity the system
of collective security, foreshadowed by Bahá’u’lláh and
explained by ‘Abdu’lBahá, has been seriously envisaged, dis-
cussed and tested. For the first time in history it has been
officially recognized and publicly stated that for this system
of collective security to be effectively established strength
and elasticity are both essential  strength involving the use
of an adequate force to ensure the efficacy of the proposed
system, and elasticity to enable the machinery that has been
devised to meet the legitimate needs and aspirations of its
aggrieved upholders. For the first time in human history
tentative efforts have been exerted by the nations of the
world to assume collective responsibility, and to supplement
their verbal pledges by actual preparation for collective
action. And again, for the first time in history, a movement
of public opinion has manifested itself in support of the ver-
dict which the leaders and representatives of nations have
pronounced, and for securing collective action in pursuance
of such a decision. (WOB 191192.)
Again the principle was invoked in the United Nations when com-
munist forces invaded Korea just after the second World War. After
that however, the world appeared to forget about it until 1992 when
Iraq invaded Kuwait and the Gulf War was launched again invoking
and re-awakening the awareness of this principle. Now of course the
energetic response of the USA was not pure altruism and a sense of

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
global responsibility on the part of the USA and was much more
concerned with protecting its sources of oil, but nevertheless an
important principle has been established. The Universal House of
Justice in message of Riḍván 1991, referred to the importance of this
event in the process: “The forces which united the remedial reactions
of so many nations to the sudden crisis in this region demonstrated
beyond any doubt the necessity of the principle of collective security
prescribed by Bahá’u’lláh more than a century ago as a means of
resolving conflict. While the international arrangement envisioned
by Him for the full application of this principle is far from having
been adopted by the rulers of mankind, a long step towards the
behaviour outlined for the nations by the Lord of the Age has thus
been taken.”
The agreement by Indonesia to pull back from its occupation of East
Timor in 1999 is another example of this principle gradually coming
to the fore.
C. Regarding the establishment of the World Commonwealth, Shoghi
Effendi says that this ‘momentous and historic step’ will involve the
‘reconstruction of mankind, as the result of the universal recognition
of its oneness and wholeness’ (PDC 122). And the Universal House
of Justice has stated that “Acceptance of the oneness of mankind is
the first fundamental prerequisite for reorganization and administra-
tion of the world as one country, the home of humankind. Universal
acceptance of this spiritual principle is essential to any successful
attempt to establish world peace.” ( PWP 10)
At first glance, it would appear that the world is a long way away from
acknowledging this principle. But if we consider more closely, we can
see that enormous strides have been made in this direction during
the twentieth century. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide,
the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights all mark

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
major steps forward from the situation earlier in the twentieth cen-
tury when large parts of the human race were considered inferior and
not deserving of any rights by other parts. All these steps have been
taken in the last fifty years or so.
D. A third feature of the peace described by Shoghi Effendi, is that
of ‘some form of a world superstate’ that must needs be ‘be evolved’
(WOB 40). Our first reaction may be to think that we are a long
way away from such a world government. But Shoghi Effendi says
that this is something that will evolve and not something that will
suddenly appear and if we have this long-term evolutionary vision of
Shoghi Effendi and we look around us, we can see much evidence of
its evolving presence in our midst. At the United Nations, a report
on global Governance was commissioned and there has been talk of
convening a summit to consider this report.
The first step towards the creation of a true world government
is, Shoghi Effendi says, ‘the inevitable curtailment of unfettered
national sovereignty’. Those features of sovereignty which will need
to be curtailed are:
• ‘every claim to make war,
• certain rights to impose taxation and
• all rights to maintain armaments, except for the purposes
of maintaining internal order within their respective
dominions’. (WOB 40)
Now we do not see much evidence of this happening in the world at
large, but if we look at what is happening within the European Union,
then we see a group of nations which throughout the twentieth cen-
tury went to war twice with each other in a major way—and they
have agreed to curtail their unfettered national sovereignty, they have
agreed to limit certain rights to impose taxation, and they are in the
process of co-ordinating their foreign policies which would inevitably

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
lead to a curtailment of their right to make war and therefore logically
also of their right to maintain independent armies.
So on a smaller scale, the very conditions that Shoghi Effendi sets
are being put into effect—the principle of putting limits on unfet-
tered national sovereignty are being accepted. And it should be
born in mind that until fifty years ago this principle was considered
sacrosanct and unassailable.
Furthermore, we have seen an international example of the refusal of
the world’s governments to allow the principle of unfettered national
sovereignty to over-ride concerns about human rights abuses in the
example of what happened in Kosovo in 1999. The world refused to
allow a national government to do whatever it liked within its own
internationally-recognized borders. More recently, this has happened
again in the case of Libya in 2011.
E. Let us look at the accessories that Shoghi Effendi said would have
to exist alongside this “world super-state”:
Such a state will have to include within its orbit
• an international executive adequate to enforce supreme and
unchallengeable authority on every recalcitrant member of
the commonwealth;
• a world parliament whose members shall be elected by the
people in their respective countries and whose election
shall be confirmed by their respective governments;
and a supreme tribunal whose judgement will have a binding effect
even in such cases where the parties concerned did not voluntarily
agree to submit their case to its consideration. (WOB 40–41)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Elsewhere he says that this world super-state will be ‘backed by an
International force’ (WOB 203)
Again all of these things may on the one hand be considered to be
very remote from the present situation of the world. But, if we look
with a long-term evolutionary vision, we can see the seeds of them
already present.
We have an international executive in the office of the secretary-
general of the United Nations. It does not yet have the power “to
enforce supreme and unchallengeable authority on every recalcitrant
member” of the United Nations but at least it exists. In the case of
the European Union, we even have the beginnings of a supra-national
executive with limited powers to enforce itself upon its member states.
We also have “a world parliament” in the United Nations General
Assembly. It is not yet one “whose members shall be elected by the
people in their respective countries,” but the European Parliament is.
Again, an International Court of Justice exists based in the Hague.
It does not yet have the right to intervene in cases where either part
has not agreed to submit to its jurisdiction, but other supra-national
courts, such as the European Court of Human Rights, do have this
right. The establishment of the International Criminal Court was
a further major step in the movement towards having a world legal
system that over-rides national sovereignty. And with respect to an
international force that will back up the world super-state, we can
again see the seeds of this in the various United Nations forces that
are operating in different parts of the world.
Other elements in this statement of Shoghi Effendi include:
• A mechanism of world intercommunication will be
devised, embracing the whole planet, freed from national
hindrances and restrictions, and functioning with mar-
vellous swiftness and perfect regularity.

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
• A world metropolis will act as the nerve center of a world
civilization, the focus towards which the unifying forces of
life will converge and from which its energizing influences
will radiate.
• A world language will either be invented or chosen from
among the existing languages and will be taught in the
schools of all the federated nations as an auxiliary to their
mother tongue.
• A world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal
system of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify
and facilitate intercourse and understanding among the
nations and races of mankind.” (WOB 203–4)
The first of these can be said to have been achieved with the advent of
the internet, which occurred during the last decade of the twentieth
century. There are no signs of the second occurring at the world level
although on a continental level, Brussels and Strasbourg are competing
to become the “nerve centre” of the European Union. The development
of a world language is identical to `Abdu’l-Baha’s seventh candle and
is discussed below. There have been a few developments in the fourth
point above with the kilogram and kilometre being increasingly the
world system of weights and measures, while a European currency has
emerged in the course of the twentieth century.
F. We can also examine some of the characteristics of the world
society in which this super-state will operate, as they have been
described by Shoghi Effendi:
• ‘all economic barriers will have been permanently
demolished’
• ‘the interdependence of Capital and Labour definitely
recognized’
• ‘the clamour of religious fanaticism and strife will have
been forever stilled’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
• ‘the flame of racial animosity will have been finally
extinguished’
• a single code of international law—the product of the
considered judgment of the world’s federated representa-
tives—shall have as its sanction the instant and coercive
intervention of the combined forces of the federated units’
• ‘the fury of a capricious and militant nationalism will
have been transmuted into an abiding consciousness of
world citizenship’ (WOB 41)
We can see that gradually all of these elements are falling into place:
economic barriers are collapsing—we already have a globalized
economy (the main area which is not yet globalized is that of the
protectionist policies of the United States and Europe towards their
agriculture and heavy industries); the interdependence of Capital
and Labour are largely already recognized; the clamour of religious
fanaticism and strife cannot be said to be stilled but at least they are
widely recognized as undesirable; a single code of international law
cannot yet be said to have been put into place, but there is a growing
body of international law which is acknowledged as binding by the
nations of the world.
G. The presence of the Lesser Peace should allow nations to dis-
arm and reinvest their expenditure on armaments into constructive
developmental activities
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, there has been consider-
able talk of a “peace dividend”. Numerous US and other military bases
around the world have been closed down and military expenditure was
cut back. Again I know that there has been a reversal of this process in
the last few years but again the principle has been established, the idea
implanted and eventually it will lead to fruition.

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
H. With regard to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Seven Candles of Unity, a number
of significant advances have been made:
1. Unity in the Political Realm
It is not immediately obvious what `Abdu’l-Bahá means by this until
we look at some other quotations. `Abdu’l-Bahá in Promulgation
of Universal Peace talks of “national unity where various peoples live
under one form of government such as French, German, British, etc.; and
political unity, which conserves the civil rights of parties or factions of
the same government.” (PUP 191) Thus this level of unity may imply
the achievement of a situation where the various racial, political and
social groupings within a country feel that they are being treated
justly and therefore able to unite politically. We will consider this
candle again when we come to the 5th candle.
2. Unity in World Undertakings
The Universal House of Justice in its letter to the Bahá’ís introducing
the document The Prosperity of Humankind in 1995, sees the recent
round of United Nations conferences as ‘capstones to the myriad
activities taking place in different parts of the world involving a wide
range of non-governmental organizations and networks in an urgent
search for values, ideas and practical measures that can advance pros-
pects for the peaceful development of all peoples’ and it considers that
in these conferences and activities can be discerned ‘the gathering
momentum of an emerging unity of thought in world undertakings,
the realization of which our sacred scriptures describe as one of the
lights of unity that will illumine the path to peace’. Shoghi Effendi
has also commented on this second candle that it might also involve
the development of a universal culture. (CC2, no. 1628, 195)
3. Unity in Freedom.
During the twentieth century, we saw a number of important
developments. At the time that `Abdu’l-Bahá was writing, most of
the world was either under colonial control or under despotic and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
authoritarian governments. There could be no real unity when such
inequalities and lack of freedom exist. The twentieth century saw
the emergences of new states out of colonial control. Similarly, the
twentieth century saw many other nations emerging from centuries
of authoritarian monarchical structures into freer democratic ones.
Not all of the peoples of the world can yet be said to be free but it is a
process that is well under way.
Other aspects of this unity in freedom are of course freeing of women
from centuries of oppression under male-dominated societies, the
freeing of the working and agricultural classes from the oppression
of the ruling classes and feudal social structures, and the freeing of
ethnic minorities and castes from subservience to the upper echelons
of society.
4. Unity in Religion.
Arguably, this is the area of these seven candles of unity in which
humanity has achieved the least progress. The Universal House of
Justice has acknowledged this in its letter to the world’s religious
leaders issued in 2002, calling upon them to take a lead in this sphere.
There was however, in 1992, a revival of the Parliament of the World’s
Religions and there have been a number of other initiatives such as
the World Conference on Religions and Peace (since 1970) and the
Summit on Religions and Conservation (1993).
5. Unity of Nations.
The achievement of the unity of nations is what `Abdu’l-Bahá stated
would be achieved in the course of the twentieth century—not the
Lesser Peace as many have thought.
In relation to the decision of the League of Nations to impose sanc-
tion on Italy in 1935, referred to above, Shoghi Effendi asserted that
“the fact must be recognized that so important a decision marks one
of the most distinctive milestones on the long and arduous road that

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
must lead it to its goal, the stage at which the oneness of the whole
body of nations will be made the ruling principle of international life.”
(WOB 193.)
Since then we have seen the United Nations emerge with much
stronger powers than the League of Nations had and several bodies
coming together forming regional unities of nations. All of these are
steps along this pathway. However, the union of nations seems to
point to something more than just political union which is the first
candle. Shoghi Effendi was asked by Marion Hoffman about the
difference between the first (which was unity in the political realm)
and the fifth candle, and he replied:
With reference to your question concerning `Abdu’l-Bahá ‘s
reference to “unity in the political realm”:  this unity should
be clearly distinguished from the “unity of nations”. The first
is a unity which politically independent and sovereign states
achieve among themselves; while the second is one which is
brought about between nations, the difference between a
state and a nation being that the former, as you know, is a
political entity without necessarily being homogeneous in
race, whereas the second implies national as well as political
homogeneity. (CC no. 1623 194)
Thus it would appear that unity in the political realm is one that is
achieved at the governmental level while unity of nations is a unity
that is achieved by the peoples of the nations of the world. Thus
`Abdu’l-Bahá is here pointing to a deeper underlying consciousness of
the oneness of humanity. This consciousness can be discerned to be
slowly emerging. We saw it for example in the response that ordinary
people made to the famine in the Sudan and to disasters elsewhere.
People are increasingly gaining a consciousness of themselves as
members of a single human family and the feeling that what happens

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
to people on the other side of the world is happening to members of
their family.
6. Unity of Races
At the beginning of the twentieth century, there was, among the
European nations, a general acceptance of the idea that the white
races were superior to the other races. Racist ideologies were widely
accepted and very fashionable. The last part of the twentieth century
saw the discrediting of these racist ideas and the relegation of rac-
ism to an intellectual back-water. Politically, racism survives in many
parts of the world but is under increasing pressure even in these parts.
7. Unity of Language
This is a principle which was enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh (TB 22)
and also mentioned in the lists of Shoghi Effendi (see above). The
concept was widely discussed during the twentieth century and
Esperanto was widely advocated for this purpose. Again while on
the surface, not much progress has been made in this area, in fact,
the last few decades have seen the establishment of English as the
international language in the areas of business and finance, science
and the academic world, and in youth culture.
The Calamity
With regard to apocalyptic thought in the Bahá’í community, it is
also necessary to deal with the points made by those who object to
these arguments against apocalyptic thinking and point to the fact
that far from speaking of the future as a process, Bahá’u’lláh has
clearly stated that a calamity will precede the coming of peace and
that this will occur suddenly, apocalyptically:
And when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly
(baghtatan) appear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
to quake. Then, and only then, will the Divine Standard be
unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.
(GWB 118–9)
Such a quotation strengthens the conviction of many Bahá’ís that there
will be some apocalyptic event—a calamity followed by the advent of
peace. If we read the letters of the Universal House of Justice, however,
we find that this institution has indicated that we have already passed
through the calamity.
The calamity is a feature of the Age of Transition and, as long ago as
October 1967, we find the Universal House of Justice indicating that
the calamity had begun:
As humanity enters the dark heart of this age of transition
our course is clear. (MUHJ63 114)
For the next few years, there are indications that humanity continued
to be in this dark heart; see the following example from June 1983:
The dark horizon faced by a world which has failed to recog-
nize the Promised One, the Source of its salvation, acutely
affects the outlook of the younger generations. (WH 158)
And even more clearly in a letter from February 1984, the fact that
humanity is in the midst of the calamity is stated:
…the believers should understand that a catastrophic break-
down of human society as a result of mankind’s ignoring His
Message has been clearly foretold by Bahá’u’lláh, and that
we are, indeed, in the midst of such a breakdown.4

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Then in its Riḍván message of 1988, the Universal indicated that we
were through the worst part of this calamity and able to see the silver
lining at the end of the cloud:
A silver lining to the dark picture which has overshadowed
most of this century now brightens the horizon. (WH 54)
Although even two years later in Riḍván 1990, the Universal House
of Justice was warning that reverses could still occur, nevertheless,
their language was such as to indicate that the worst was over:
Hopeful as are the signs, we cannot forget that the dark pas-
sage of the Age of Transition has not been fully traversed; it
is as yet long, slippery and tortuous.5
Thus it appears that the Universal House of Justice thinks that the
calamity was a process that has been going on for several decades
and the worst of which is now behind us—although there is still a
possibility for reverses. Thus this “suddenly” of Bahá’u’lláh would
appear to be similar to the Divine “Day” and consists of an extended
period of time and this calamity is seen in Bahá’í terms as a process
and not an apocalyptic event.
Summary
In summary, this process way of thinking in relation to the progress
made towards peace reveals the following features:
A. The Bahá’í Faith holds that God does not usually intervene in
the world in dramatic miraculous ways (or only rarely) forcing His
will upon humanity, rather He works by slowly evolving processes
over long periods of time, inviting human beings to participate in
these processes.

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
B. With regard to the establishment of the features of the vision of
the Bahá’í Faith for the future of humanity, this process can be said
to consist of a number of stages:
1. The enunciation of a principle in the writings of the Central
Figures of the Bahá’í Faith.
2. The independent enunciation of the principle by a gov-
ernment or inter-governmental body and its insertion into
international treaties or declarations.
3. The partial implementation of the principle, thus establish-
ing it as a reality on the international stage. This may involve
an unsuccessful attempt to implement the principle (as in
the case of the response to Italy’s invasion of Ethiopia or
the United Nations as an implementation of a World Com-
monwealth) or an implementation that is geographically
circumscribed and does not yet involve all nations (as in
the steps towards the creation of a super-state within the
European Union).
4. The general and full implementation of the principle such
that it becomes regarded as the norm in world politics.
Only a few of the features of peace, as delineated in the authoritative
Bahá’í texts can be said to have achieved stage 4 (for example the
Internet can be said to be the fulfilment of the need for a “mechanism
of world intercommunication will be devised, embracing the whole
planet, freed from national hindrances and restrictions, and func-
tioning with marvellous swiftness and perfect regularity”). Most of
the features of peace delineated in the text above did however reach
stage 3 during the course of the twentieth century.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
C. The process of the implementation of these features is not smooth
and there may be set-backs on the way.
Seen in this light, one can recognize all of the features of peace
delineated in the authoritative Bahá’í texts achieved up to the
third stage in the process of implementation during the course of
the twentieth century. Some even reached stage 4. Thus it can be
said that if the Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace are seen as
processes rather than apocalyptic events, then the prerequisites and
accompanying features of these two categories of peace developed
greatly and were securely established by the end of the twentieth
century. It is therefore for this reason that the Universal House
of Justice was able at the close of the twentieth century to confirm
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s description of this century as the “Century of Light”.

Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978.
Bahá’í World Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2nd ed. 1976.
Bahá’u’lláh.‌ Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1988.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust, 1983.
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1978.
Browne, Edward G. Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1918.
The Compilation of Compilations. Prepared by the Universal House of Justice
1963–1990. 2 vols. [Mona Vale NSW]: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1991.
FitzGerald, Nathan Ward. The New Revelation: Its Marvelous Message, Tacoma,
Washington: privately published, 1905
Kheiralla, Ibrahim G. Behá’U’lláh, Chicago: privately published, 1900.
Piff, David. Bahá’í Lore. Oxford: George Ronald, 2000.
Shoghi Effendi. Citadel of Faith: Messages to America 1947–1957. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.
Shoghi Effendi. The Promised Day is Come. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
rev. ed. 1980.
Shoghi Effendi. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991.
Smith, Peter. ‘The American Bahá’í Community, 1894–1917: A Preliminary Survey’,
in Moojan Momen, (ed.). Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 1. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1982.
Universal House of Justice. Century of Light. Thornhill, ON: Bahá’í Canada Publica-
tions, 2001.
Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963–1986:
The Third Epoch of the Formative Age. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1996.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Universal House of Justice. The Promise of World Peace. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre,
1985.
Universal House of Justice. A Wider Horizon: Selected Messages of the Universal
House of Justice 1983–1992. Riviera Beach, Florida: Palabra Publications, 1992.
NOTES
For Kheiralla’s interpretation, see Browne, Material for the Study of the Bábí
Religion 139; Kheiralla, Behá’U’lláh 480. This date was arrived at by taking
Daniel 12:12 which refers to 1335 days and converting it to the relevant year of
the Islamic calendar. For later Baha’is promulgating this idea, see for example,
Nathan Ward FitzGerald, The New Revelation 192, quoting a newspaper report
of what Baha’is had told a newspaper reporter in about 1902–4. Smith cites an
article by a non-Bahá’í who attended the Bahá’í Convention in 1917 and found
that the “war proved the leading topic of discussion” and that the Bahá’ís were
confident that the war would end within a year and “the foundations of Peace
laid”. P. Smith, “The American Bahá’í Community,” p. 159, citing Eric Dime,
“Is the Millennium upon us?” Forum 58 (1917) 167–80
See reports collected by David Piff, Bahá’í Lore 365–7
The Universal House of Justice, Messages 1963 to 1986, p. 281 and letters
written in July 1974, April 1976, December 1981, and February 1984, cited
in International Teaching Centre, 1 July 1984, Concerns about Retributive
Calamity
From a communication dated 20 February 1984 written by the Universal House
of Justice to the International Teaching Centre and cited in International
Teaching Centre, 1 July 1984, Concerns about Retributive Calamity.
The Universal House of Justice, Riḍván 147, 1990.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
Having spent almost his whole life as a prisoner and an exile in the
Middle East, `Abdu’l-Bahá, son of the founder of the Bahá’í Faith,
Bahá’u’lláh, was set free in 1908. He travelled from the Middle East
to Europe in 1911 and to Europe and North America in 1912–13,
taking his father’s message of the renewal of religion and how to build
a new civilization based on the spiritual principles of peace, justice
and unity to a western audience.
On his travels `Abdu’l-Bahá encountered developments in material
civilization—steam travel, the skyscrapers of New York, his first
telephone call, the bright lights of cities—and modern social move-
ments such as suffragettes, socialist politics, new religious thought.
This paper looks at his response to these phenomena.
The Person of `Abdu’l-Bahá
`Abdu’l-Bahá left Iran when he was nine years old. He lived in Bagh-
dad until he was 19, then lived in Constantinople (Istanbul) and
Adrianople (Edirne) until he was 24. He lived for most of his life
in `Akká, initially in the prison citadel there and later often under
house arrest. After the Young Turk Revolution in 1908, when
`Abdu’l-Bahá was 64 years old, he moved to Haifa, where he lived
for the remainder of his life. He travelled briefly to Beirut, probably
in 1878, when he was 34, and to Egypt (Alexandria and Ramleh)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
in 1910 when he was 66 years old. It was only in 1911, when he was
67, that he left the Middle East and travelled to Europe and later, in
1912, when he was 68, to North America. Hence `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
direct experience of modern technology and western developments
came fairly late in his life.
`Abdu’l-Bahá is described by western observers as having a “command-
ing presence”, with those meeting him the first time describing feelings
of awe. However, he was “intensely approachable”. He had a sense of
humour and in many of his encounters with people of importance he
poked gentle fun at them, for example, saying to Admiral Peary, who
had ‘discovered’ the North Pole, at a reception held by Ali Kuli Khan
and his wife, that the world had for a long time been much concerned
about the North Pole, where it was and what was to be found but
now that Admiral Peary had discovered it and that there was nothing
there, he had relieved the public mind and therefore rendered a great
service to humanity (Diary 272–3).
`Abdu’l-Bahá was modest but not an ascetic, sensitive to others and
truly compassionate. He travelled first class on the Cedric, while the
rest of his party travelled in second class (Mahmúd 13). However, it
seems he did not take advantage of the privileges of first class other
than to make contacts with people for the purpose of teaching them
about the Bahá’í Faith (Mahmúd 20) and for inviting his entourage
to eat in the dining area (Mahmúd 13) —he himself frequently
ate only a little cheese and bread (Mahmúd 339) or even just “a
milk and a piece of bread”, which he described as a “healthy meal”
(Balyuzi 392), and, of course, none of them drank the plentiful alco-
hol available. He told his travelling companions that they should
leave second class, as their cabins were ‘not good’ (Mahmúd 18).
Similarly, when he was staying with the Maxwells in Montreal, the
number of visitors increased hugely such that after four days he felt
his presence had become a problem for them. He insisted that he
move into a hotel, choosing a suite at the Windsor Hotel, then the

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
most expensive and luxurious in the city (Balyuzi 263; Nakhjavani
280–1).1 At the same time, he had very few clothes, as he was wont
to give any extra away to the poor, for example giving a tramp in
Dublin, New Hampshire, his own trousers that he was wearing at
the time, wrapping his `abá about him after he had stepped out of
them. (Balyuzi 239; Ives 129). Even when travelling in Europe and
North America he always wore the clothes of a 19th century Persian
gentleman, which, together with his long white beard gave rise to
descriptions of him being a prophet from the East (Balyuzi 264;
SW15, 363; SW23, 80; Mahmúd 245, 252).
The Middle East in 1911
Travel
The technological advances that `Abdu’l-Bahá encountered in the
West came more slowly to the Middle East but were established in
embryo by 1910 so would have been familiar to `Abdu’l-Bahá to some
degree. The railway had come to Alexandria in 1852. But in general
trains came late to the Middle East—one of the first in the Middle
East was built between Tehran and Rayy in Iran in 1881, too late for
`Abdu’l-Bahá to have used it. The Orient Express between Istanbul
and Paris opened in 1883. A train between Damascus and Medina
was built under the Ottomans from 1908 to 1916 with a side track to
Haifa and `Akká, for Muslims to travel to the Hajj. The extra distance
to Mecca was not completed. When `Abdu’l-Bahá travelled to Beirut,
probably in 1878 (Balyuzi 38), he travelled by foot. When he left for
Egypt in 1910 he went by steamer.
However, for daily travel in the Holy Land in the early years of the
20th century, most people rode horses or used carriages, if they
had money, or walked or rode on donkeys if they did not. Several
years later, as if to underscore the difference in transport systems,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
`Abdu’l-Bahá remarked that he never saw donkeys in the United
States (Balyuzi 415).
Sanitation
Sanitation in the Middle East was not so well established in pri-
vate homes as it was in the West. Although in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Bahá’u’lláh warned against the use of public baths that were dirty,
such as the ones in Iran, both he and `Abdu’l-Bahá used public
‘Turkish bath’, where one’s hair and nails were cut and which were as
much a social meeting place as a place of hygiene, being very much a
feature of life in `Akká.
By the turn of the century Jerusalem was well on its way to becoming
a modern city. There were luxury hotels with hot, running water (the
King David Hotel was the first), telephone lines and modern hospitals.
But some areas of the city still remained unchanged and looked as
they had a hundred years before.2
Communications
The telegraph had reached Iran in 1859 and Syria in the 1860s.
`Akká was added to the network in 1865. The line to Haifa came
later—even in 1875 people had to use the telegraph office in `Akká.3
By the turn of the century, Jerusalem had telephone lines but most
of the people had no access to telephones. It seems unlikely that
there were telephone lines to `Akká when `Abdu’l-Bahá left there
in 1909 when he moved to Haifa. It is reported that `Abdu’l-Bahá
received his first telephone call while he was in Paris, at the flat at 4
Avenue de Camoens.
Lighting
The production of electricity for lighting public spaces dates from the
last quarter of the 19th century. It was soon available in Palestine on
a small scale, using batteries and generators. By the time `Abdu’l-Bahá

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
left on his western travels small generators were providing the power
for the first cinemas in Palestine (between 1910 and 1912). How-
ever, in the Bahá’í properties, electricity was not installed until just
before `Abdu’lBahá passed away and was ‘not connected until after
his ascension’ so ‘the family used lamps’, probably meaning oil lamps
(Rabbaní 13). `Abdu’l-Bahá commissioned American electrician and
Bahá’í Curtis Kelsey to install AC electrical lighting in the Shrines
of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, and on the path leading up to the Shrine
of the Bab on Mount Carmel, as well as at the HaramiAqdas in Bahjí,
including lighting generators at three sites (Rutstein 38). Kelsey
arrived in 1921, just before the passing of `Abdu’l-Bahá, and com-
pleted the task in 1922.
Tall Buildings
The tallest building in Haifa in 1900 was one of the 100 clock towers
built in that year by Sultan `Abdu’l-Hamíd II to celebrate the 25th
anniversary of his reign. Erected in front of the AlJarina mosque, it
had six floors, with a clock on each side of the fourth floor.4
Social Developments
Turning to social developments in the Middle East in the early 20th
century, we can look at two areas which may serve as indicators of
social progress and modernization: education of the masses and
particularly the education of girls; and public participation in gov-
ernment/governance at any level.
Education
Looking at Iran with regard to the education of the masses, during
the latter part of the 19th century, a number of Iranian intellectuals
concerned with Iran falling behind Europe called for formation of
modern educational facilities in the country. By the turn of the cen-
tury a number of more modern schools were established in Tehran and
other major cities, although many soon closed in the face of opposition.
Schools for girls faced even stronger opposition.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The earliest attempt to establish a Bahá’í school was probably in
Mazandaran in the late 1870s, where both a boys’ school and a girls’
school were founded, although not for long. The Tarbíyat School for
Boys in Tehran was founded about 1899 and was the first modern
Bahá’í school in Iran. In 1905 it was the only school in Tehran where
mathematics was studied every day and students were separated by
ability. The Tarbíyat School for Girls was established in 1911 and
offered gymnastics and outdoors breaks to girls more than 15 years
before government schools allowed physical education for girls.5
In Palestine, schools for girls were set up, often by Christian groups,
in Palestine in the 19th century. For example, Quakers established
a school for girls and later a boys’ school in Ramella in the 19th
century. The equivalent school for Muslims girls, the Islamic Girls’
School in Jerusalem, had to wait until 1925, when it was established
by the Supreme Muslim Council. It had a westernized curriculum
for elementary aged girls (Greenberg 36).
Popular Government and Participation in Governance
The Middle East, even today, is not known for participatory govern-
ment and it was no different in the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Within
the Ottoman Empire, governance was undertaken by hereditary
rulers and a ruling class, the askerí, including the noblemen, court
officials, military officers and the religious class of `ulamá.6 Con-
cepts of democratic elections did not exist. The system was open
to abuse but also to having weak leaders who gave much power to
ambitious underlings.
In Iran, the birthplace of the Bahá’í Faith and of `Abdu’l-Bahá, west-
ern science, technology and educational methods were introduced
during the reign of Násir-i-Dín Sháh and with these the country’s
modernization was begun but soon abandoned. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s trea-
tise, written anonymously to the Iranian people and government in
1875, when he was only 31, known as The Secret of Divine Civilization,

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
focused on the social and economic development of Iran. Written
at the behest of Bahá’u’lláh, it challenged the Sháh and the Iranian
people to reform and take advantage of certain elements of western
civilization as well as to introduce good governance and to educate
the people to participate in it. That this went unheeded is no great
surprise.
Shortly afterwards, probably in 1878, `Abdu’l-Bahá was invited by
the liberal reformer Midhat Pasha to visit Beirut. A brilliant states-
men, Midhat Pasha, as grand vizier, was instrumental in persuading
the Sultan to grant a constitution to his people. This did not last but
was a sign of the sort of political modernization that was beginning
to take root in the Middle East (Balyuzi 37–8). When the Iranian
Constitutional movement began in Iran in 1905, `Abdu’l-Bahá ini-
tially encouraged the Bahá’ís to involve themselves in this and even to
stand for parliament. This came to nothing but is an indication of the
interest `Abdu’l-Bahá had in modern politics and governance.
Advancement of Women
There is currently much controversy over what the status of women
in the Middle East was in the 19th century. Western observers point
to the veiling of women, their lack of participation in society and
decision-making, their seclusion within the home, and laws permit-
ting men to marry more than one wife as indicators of the oppression
of women, or at the very least their lack of status compared to men.
Present-day Muslim women researchers have begun to question this
analysis. They point to the fact that although many Muslim girls
were home-schooled, they could both read and write because of the
emphasis placed on reading the Qur’án. By the mid-19th century in
some parts of the Muslim Middle East, girls were going to schools
outside the home, as foreign missionaries established schools for girls
as early as the 1830s. Muslim researchers also point to the emergence
of a middle class in the Middle East in the last decades of the 19th
century that was more closely aligned with Europe. Members of this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
middle class wanted more women to train as teachers to educate girls,
as they felt that it was not appropriate for girls to have male teachers.
Thus in 1872 the Women’s Teachers’ Training School was founded in
Constantinople and by 1900 another had been established in Cairo.7
It is suggested that it is a myth that women did not work outside the
home: they were, for example, carpet makers. Author Asli Sancar
in her book Ottoman Women: Myth and Reality argues that it is
also a myth that women under the Ottomans had no legal status
of their own and were completely under the control of their fathers
or husbands. Ottoman women, she says, had for centuries a broad
range of legal rights.8 Annemarie Schimmel agrees: ‘Compared
to the preIslamic position of women, Islamic legislation meant an
enormous progress; the woman has the right, at least according
to the letter of the law, to administer the wealth she has brought
into the family or has earned by her own work’ (Schimmel). That is,
the personhood of women is recognized legally. Nevertheless, the
vast majority of women in the Middle East in the first half of the
20th century were not middle class and did not have actual access
to their own legal status, no matter what the Qur’án said. And in
many ways this was also true for many thousands of women in the
West, witness their need to agitate for the franchise to be extended
to them.
In the West
When `Abdu’l-Bahá first arrived in the West in August 1911, he
stepped off the SS Corsica in Marseilles. It must have seemed slightly
familiar to him, with the huge Fort Saint-Jean built on Knights
Hospitaller crusader foundations overlooking the harbour, just as
the citadel at `Akká, also built on Hospitaller crusader foundations,
overlooks the harbour there. So `Abdu’l-Bahá’s first experience of the
West was very possibly one that demonstrated the unity of the East

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
and West, united, at least, in this way. The interplay of history and
the present—old civilizations and new learning from one another—
is a theme running throughout the visit of `Abdu’l-Bahá to the West.
`Abdu’l-Bahá travelled to Thonon-le-Bains where the Bahá’ís met
him, including Hippolyte and Laura Dreyfus-Barney, Lady Blomfield,
Ethel Rosenberg and other American and British Bahá’ís. Many of
them he had met before, in the Holy Land, and so he was among
devotees. Juliet Thompson’s diary records many small incidents of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s stay, including a car trip to see the magnificent scen-
ery. On the way back they saw a waterfall, which `Abdu’l-Bahá spent
some time contemplating (Diary 176). He similarly contemplated the
Niagara Falls when he visited Buffalo, New York, in September 1912,
mentioning that Bahá’u’lláh enjoyed the waterfalls of Mazandaran so
much he used to camp near them (Balyuzi 266, Mahmúd 252–3). This
interplay of the modern world, nature and `Abdu’l-Bahá poignantly
recalling the life of his father is also echoed throughout his travels.
Transportation
While travelling in the West `Abdu’l-Bahá encountered a large
number of new inventions and technologies, many of which he
appreciated and was fascinated to see, others he did not care for.
One of the latter was the underground train. In the very year of his
father’s public declaration of his mission, in 1863, the first under-
ground railway using adapted steam engines—the four-mile (6.2
km) Metropolitan Railway—opened in London, giving rise to a
whole new mode of subterranean urban transit. In 1890 the first
electric London underground railway opened in London and soon
all other subway systems followed suit. `Abdu’l-Bahá encountered
the ‘underground’ or ‘subway’ in Paris, London and New York but
he was not convinced of its value. While travelling on a subway in
New York he remarked:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
In man’s nature there must be a desire to ascend and not to
descend. The underground air is suffocating. It would have been
better if we had gone by road above. The Blessed Beauty used
to say that it is even a pity that the dead body of man should be
buried under the ground (Mahmúd 156).
Of course, many of the short journeys `Abdu’l-Bahá took in the West
were in cars. Automobiles had been developed by the end of the
19th century and were becoming popular in North America, such
that by the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit in 1912 there were over 75
different manufacturers.9 In 1908, the year of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s release
from house arrest in `Akká, the first Model T Ford became available
(27 September 1908, at the Piquette Plant in Detroit, Michigan).10
Though certainly not yet within the grasp of everyone, many middle
class people in North America owned a car and `Abdu’l-Bahá trav-
elled frequently in automobiles from one meeting to the next, or on
visits to the countryside.11
For many, driving was still a novelty and a pleasure, especially when it
was to show off to guests such as `Abdu’l-Bahá. One of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
first car trips was in Thonon in August 1911, when he travelled with
Juliet Thompson and Laura and Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney (Diary
79). From her description, Juliet was more excited by it than was
`Abdu’l-Bahá, who was more taken with the environment through
which they passed (ibid. 81). For `Abdu’l-Bahá was ever thinking not
of the technology itself but of its emblematic role as an indicator of
the power of Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation of God for this day,
making all things new. Hence while he was riding in Mountford
Mills’s car in New York on 20 May 1912 he remarked to him, “You
will learn of the value of this automobile later because it will be said that
the servants of the Blessed Beauty sat in it” (Mahmúd 105–6). And, as
now, technology did not always work well. When in Chicago on 4
May 1912, `Abdu’l-Bahá wanted to walk and take the tram from his
host’s house to the public meeting at a hotel but his host dissuaded

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
him, saying that as it was too far away and he had a car, `Abdu’l-Bahá
should take that. Mahmúd himself also insisted, so, as he writes,
‘`Abdu’l-Bahá rode in the car but as it twice punctured its tires, he
took the tram’ (Mahmúd 77–8).
One or two photographs of `Abdu’l-Bahá show him sitting in a car,
while the motion picture taken of him on 17 June 1912 in the grounds
of the MacNutt home in Brooklyn has one scene of him riding in a
car (Balyuzi 219, Mahmúd 135).
Despite his frequent use of the motorcar while in the West, `Abdu’l-
Bahá was not converted to its use once he returned to the holy land.
Even as late as April 1920 when he was being honoured by the British
government for his humanitarian work during World War I and was
sent an ‘imposing’ and ‘elegant’ car to take him to the ceremony, he
did not use it. His servant Isfandiyar, ‘whose joy it had been for many
years to drive the Master’, suggested on looking at the car that he was
no longer needed. However, `Abdu’l-Bahá, sensitive to the feelings of
his old friend, signed to him to bring the carriage and thus arrived at
the garden of the Governorate of Phoenicia in his time-honoured way
(Blomfield 214–15). When in London he was offered money to buy a
car for his use in the Holy Land, he accepted the cheque but said he
would use it for gifts for the poor (Blomfield 157). Later, however, he
did take delivery of a car, with Shoghi Effendi taking responsibility
for the paperwork.
`Abdu’l-Bahá also used other forms of public transport, including
carriages, which were still used widely at the time. In New York,
Montreal, Salt Lake City and LA he used taxis,12 trams and trolleys
(Mahmúd 337, 241 252–3, 296; Balyuzi 265, 309) as well as the
above mentioned subway, and he took a cable car up a mountain
while in Montreal (Mahmúd 243). He did not fly, although he did
watch a biplane circling one of Britain’s first airfields in Byfleet. (ABL
98). Mary Basil Hall recorded:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
I can see `Abdu’lBahá watching aeroplanes ascend at Brook-
lands. He would speed them into the sky laughing with
pleasure, and making a sweeping upward movement of His
arms. The progress of material civilization gave him intense
satisfaction, as long as its inventions were not used for the
prosecution of war (Basil Hall 13–14).
Communications
Just as improved transportation systems enabled `Abdu’l-Bahá to
travel further more quickly than he could have done at the time of
his birth, communication systems were also advancing rapidly, an
innovation `Abdu’l-Bahá welcomed. While the telegraph had come
to the `Akká area in 1865, the telephone was still a novelty at the
time `Abdu’l-Bahá left in 1910. In the West its use was much more
widespread. By 1900, the Bell company alone had some 800,000
phones in service while other companies had about 600,000. The
first coasttocoast telephone line was completed only in 1915, too
late for `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit.13 However, by 1911, the 4300km trunk
line from New York to Denver was opened,14 so no doubt some of
the arrangements for `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travel across North America
could have been made by phone. And although from the accounts
of those who met `Abdu’l-Bahá the telephone was used frequently
to contact his hosts and hostesses, and from time to time he asked
his hosts to telephone someone for him, it seems he did not himself
use a telephone personally other than during his visit to Paris in the
autumn of 1911.
One night at the flat that was rented for him at 4 Avenue de Camoens
he was visited by Siyyid Hasan Taqizadeh, a well-known figure in
Iran’s political, diplomatic and literary circles. Taqizadeh relates that
at one point he and `Abdu’l-Bahá were alone when the maid came in
and said that he had a telephone call. `Abdu’l-Bahá told her to find
his companions and tell one of them to take the call. However, no one
was there and eventually `Abdu’l-Bahá had to take the call himself,

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
which was, apparently, from an American Bahá’í woman who spoke
Persian. Presumably she was one of the Americans in Paris, as there
were no transatlantic calls at that time—possibly Laura Dreyfus-
Barney or Mary Hanford Ford. After taking the call, `Abdu’l-Bahá
told Taqizadeh: “That was the first time in My life that I spoke on
telephone.”15
Lighting
Perhaps one of the most obvious differences between `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
home and the West was the use of electricity for power, especially for
lighting. Edison had perfected the incandescent bulb in 1880 and in
the United States electrical wiring for lighting was beginning to be
installed in homes about 1900, even though most places would not
receive electricity for many years. There were frequent power out-
ages that would last up to a month at a time, so many households
continued to use gas lighting, at least as a supplement to electricity
until about 1920.16 Privileged households in England, such as Lady
Blomfield’s, would have used electrical lighting but most homes were
lit by gas for a long time afterwards, and some did not have even this.
But it was outdoor lighting of public spaces that was most impres-
sive. Outdoor lighting by electricity was first used in Paris and then
London in the late 1870s. In the US, electric street lighting became
widespread and commonplace in 1890. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s chronicler in
the United States, Mahmúd Zargání, was particularly taken with
the lighting and noted big displays in his diary.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, too, seemed taken with lights at night. When he was in
Clifton, near Bristol, on his first visit to England, at the end of a meet-
ing in the home of Wellesley Tudor Pole, where `Abdu’l-Bahá was
staying, he went up onto the balcony and looked out across the city
of Bristol, ‘a fairylike scene lit up by thousands of lamps’ (Anonymous
account 5). Mahmúd describes `Abdu’l-Bahá’s response to the lights
of San Francisco:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
There is a bay between San Francisco and Oakland which
can be crossed in 15 minutes by boat. The Master’s automo-
bile was being ferried across the channel at night. When it
reached midway, we saw a magnificent sight: lighted boats
travelling back and forth against the shimmering lights of
San Francisco. The splendid buildings and towers adorned
with brilliant lights seemed to be golden palaces set with
coloured jewels. Lights from the homes crowning the high
hills appeared like a string of pearls. The Master enjoyed
the scene and whenever He went that way He praised it
highly (Mahmúd 302).
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s fascination with lights might well be explained by
what Bahá’u’lláh had told him. Juliet Thomson records that on the
evening of the day `Abdu’l-Bahá spoke at the Bowery Mission in New
York, on 19 April 1912, he held a dinner for some of the Bahá’ís.
As we drove up Broadway, glittering with its electric signs,
He spoke of them smiling, apparently much amused. Then
He told us that Bahá’u’lláh had loved light. “He could never
get enough light. He taught us,” the Master said, “to economize
in everything else but to use light freely” (Diary 261–2).
Cities and Tall Buildings
In general, however, `Abdu’l-Bahá was not enamoured of large
crowded cities and their very tall buildings. Recall that the tallest
building in Haifa at the time was only six stories high and consider
the effect of  seeing buildings 35 and even 45 stories high for the first
time. Just a day after his arrival in New York , as he was travelling in
his carriage through the park back to the Ansonia hotel—where he
was accommodated on the seventh floor of the 17 story building, he
noted: ‘America will make rapid progress in the future but I am fearful
of the effects of these high buildings and such densely populated
cities; these are not good for the public health’ (Mahmúd 41).

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
He found Washington D.C. more pleasant, remarking that ‘The city
of Washington is better planned and laid out than the other cities of
America.’ Mahmúd says that
In His view the plan of this city was very pleasing because in
other cities the buildings were too high and the population
too congested. The buildings in Washington were mostly
of four to five stories and its boulevards straight, well-
proportioned and exquisitely landscaped. Each house has a
front yard with flowers and bushes so that in the springtime
the entire city becomes like a beautiful garden. All of the
squares there have beautiful parks and gardens. In contrast,
some of the streets and boulevards of New York and Chi-
cago, with their tall buildings looming like steep mountain
peaks, seem like narrow gorges or deep mountain passes
and the crowd of humanity like the files of an army. It is
difficult to pass through some of those streets either on foot
or in a vehicle (Mahmúd 379).
Comparing the two cities, Mahmúd notes that `Abdu’l-Bahá “was
not pleased with the dense population and the height of the buildings”
in New York, saying: “These are injurious to the public’s health. This
population should be in two cities, the buildings should be lower and the
streets should be tree-lined as they are in Washington. How can these two
places compare?” Mahmúd himself was rather bemused by New York,
calling it ‘strange’ and noting that
its population so large that in addition to surface streets,
there are three railway lines running the entire length of
the city; one underground, another on the surface and a
third above the streets on bridges about two stories high.
These railway lines are continuously filled with people and
are their mode of transportation. On some of the streets,
automobiles and carriages have to stop for some 10 to 15

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
minutes because of the congestion until the traffic officers
give them permission to continue.
Most buildings are from 17 to 18 stories high and each floor
has some 20 to 30 apartments, most of which have bedrooms,
a living room, a dining room, bathrooms with hot and cold
running water and many comforts (Mahmúd 403).
But it was the spirituality of the cities—or the lack thereof—that
`Abdu’l-Bahá particularly noted, saying on 20 October 1911:
The city of Paris is very beautiful… a more civilized and wellap-
pointed town in all material development it would be impossible
to find in the present world. But the spiritual light has not shone
upon her for a long time: her spiritual progress is far behind
that of her material civilization. A supreme power is needed
to awaken her to the reality of spiritual truth, to breathe the
breath of life into her dormant soul (PT 26.)
And to an American audience in New York he said on 15 April:
Paris is most beautiful in outward appearance. The evidences of
material civilization there are very great, but the spiritual civi-
lization is far behind. I found the people of that city submerged
and drowning in a sea of materialism. Their conversations and
discussions were limited to natural and physical phenomena,
without mention of God. I was greatly astonished. Most of the
scholars, professors and learned men proved to be materialists. I
said to them, ‘I am surprised and astonished that men of such
perceptive calibre and evident knowledge should still be captives
of nature, not recognizing the self-evident Reality’ (PUP, 16–17)
But he did like Chicago, which was to be home to the first House of
Worship in the western hemisphere, saying that while he liked D.C.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
for its large audiences and the unity of black and white people, he
liked Chicago more “because the call of Bahá’u’lláh was first raised
in this city” (Mahmúd 67). He also praised his hotel there, the Plaza,
saying “This building commands a good view; most of the parks, streets
and the city’s lights can be seen.” (ibid. 68)
It is probably fair to say that `Abdu’l-Bahá was not overly taken by
large, ornate buildings. When he was in Montreal he was taken to
see some of the college buildings. His response was about the quality
of education provided:
As only material education is imparted and only natural
philosophy is taught, these universities do not produce highly
talented scholars. When both the natural and the divine phi-
losophies are expounded, they will bring forth outstanding souls
and evince great advancement. The reason for the success of the
Greek schools was that they combined both natural and divine
philosophies(Mahmúd 228).
Then `Abdu’l-Bahá was taken to see the ‘huge’ Notre Dame Cathe-
dral. Mahmúd notes that ‘with rapt attention, he gazed at the vast
cathedral, its ornamentation and numerous statues and spoke of its
grandeur and embellishments’. Then he addressed his companions,
as if in admonishment at the elaborate building:
Behold what eleven disciples of Christ have accomplished, how
they sacrificed themselves! I exhort you to walk in their footsteps.
When a person is detached, he is capable of revolutionizing the
whole world (Mahmúd 228).
But it was not just material progress, new technology and the effects
of migration and population growth on the size of cities that `Abdu’l-
Bahá encountered when he came to the West. He also found social
movements that were, in some ways, playing out and developing some

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
of Bahá’u’lláh’s most powerful social teachings—about the oneness
of humanity, the equality of women and men, the harmony of science
and religion, participative government, education and public welfare.
Judgement on the West
So what did `Abdu’l-Bahá think of the innovations, technological,
material, social, economic and political that he encountered in the
West?
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s judgement on the West was grounded in the perspec-
tive that Bahá’u’lláh had on the nature of civilization, its direction of
travel and the purpose of the Revelation of which he was the bearer.
The thrust of this view was two-fold. First that:
All men have been created to carry forward an everadvancing
civilization. The Almighty beareth Me witness: To act like the
beasts of the field is unworthy of man. Those virtues that befit his
dignity are forbearance, mercy, compassion and loving-kindness
towards all the peoples and kindreds of the earth (GWB 214).
Thus the civilization that is to be advanced is based on spiritual
virtues and behaviours drawn from them. The second aspect is that:
Whoso cleaveth to justice, can, under no circumstances, trans-
gress the limits of moderation. He discerneth the truth in all
things, through the guidance of Him Who is the All-Seeing. The
civilization, so often vaunted by the learned exponents of arts
and sciences, will, if allowed to overleap the bounds of modera-
tion, bring great evil upon men. Thus warneth you He Who
is the All-Knowing. If carried to excess, civilization will prove
as prolific a source of evil as it had been of goodness when kept
within the restraints of moderation (GWB 342–3).

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
This seems to be linked not just to ‘amounts’ of things people have
but again to the activities and behaviours that will tend to uplift
their souls rather than mire them in carnal pleasures. Thus `Abdu’l-
Bahá says:
And among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is that although
material civilization is one of the means for the progress of
the world of mankind, yet until it becomes combined with
Divine civilization, the desired result, which is the felicity of
mankind, will not be attained. Consider! These battleships
that reduce a city to ruins within the space of an hour are the
result of material civilization; likewise the Krup guns, the
Mauser rifles, dynamite, submarines, torpedo boats, armed
aircraft and bombing areoplanes—all these weapons of war
are malignant fruits of material civilization. Had material
civilization been combined with Divine civilization, these fiery
weapons would never have been invented. Nay, rather, human
energy would have been wholly devoted to useful inventions
and would have been concentrated on praiseworthy discoveries
(Tablet to the Hague 8).
With this lens, then, `Abdu’l-Bahá viewed the West as well as the
East, but this subject is beyond the scope of this essay, except to say
that `Abdu’l-Bahá believed “The East must acquire material civilization
from the West and the West must learn divine civilization from the East”
(Mahmúd 83).
This was an abiding theme in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s talks. For example, in
Los Angeles he said:
Material civilization is the cause of worldly prosperity but
divine civilization is the means of eternal prosperity. If divine
civilization, which is all-encompassing, is established, then
material civilization will also attain perfection. When spiritual

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
perfection is attained, then physical perfection is a certainty.
Material civilization alone does not suffice and does not become
the means of acquiring spiritual virtues. Rather, it leads to an
increase in wars and disputes and becomes the cause of blood-
shed and ruin (Mahmúd 338).
The United States
`Abdu’l-Bahá spoke specifically about the United States, its achieve-
ments in education, agriculture and commerce, the high standard
of its government and people, and its role in establishing the sort of
civilization Bahá’u’lláh promised, saying:
Their material civilization resembles a glass of the utmost
transparency and purity but divine civilization is like a shin-
ing lamp. When these two combine, the utmost perfection will
be realized. The light of the oneness of humanity, of universal
peace, of equality of human rights and of divine morals will
emanate from this country to all the regions of the world and
will illumine them all (Mahmúd 122).
Asked whether Americans could actually achieve this, `Abdu’l-Bahá
provided a link between spiritual behaviour, science and material
prosperity:
Provided they behave moderately, the more people advance
in the material realm, the more their capacity for attaining
spirituality is augmented. The sounder the body, the greater is
the resplendency and manifestation of the spirit. Truly, what
impedes spirituality are the dogmas and imitations that are
contrary to true science and a sound mind (Mahmúd 122).
The Master remarked repeatedly:

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
The people of America have a great capacity for the acquisi-
tion of spiritual qualities but they are immersed in material
affairs. They are like machines which move uncontrollably; they
move but are devoid of spirit. They will attain perfection when
the spirit of divine civilization is breathed into them and this
material civilization becomes infused with spiritual refinement
(Mahmúd 306).
On the whole, `Abdu’l-Bahá seemed to like North America. He saw
the great potential of its people to establish peace and to contribute
significantly to the material welfare of the planet and to its moral
development:
Although they are engrossed in material civilization and physical
pursuits, still, unlike people in some European countries, they
are not wholly devoid of spiritual susceptibilities. They are seek-
ers and desire to investigate reality. They wish for peace and
tranquillity and they desire fellowship and love among humanity
(Mahmúd 413).
In New York I find the people more endowed with spiritual
susceptibilities. They are not mere captives of nature’s control;
they are rising out of the bonds and burden of captivity. For
this reason I am very happy and hopeful that, God willing,
in this populous country, in this vast continent of the West,
the virtues of the world of humanity shall become resplendent;
that the oneness of human worldpower, the love of God, may
enkindle the hearts, and that international peace may hoist
its standards, influencing all other regions and countries from
here. This is my hope (PUP, 16–18).
He revealed a prayer specifically for America at the conclusion of the
convention of the Bahá’í Temple Unity in Chicago on 30 April 1912:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
O Thou kind Lord! This gathering is turning to Thee. These
hearts are radiant with Thy love. These minds and spirits are
exhilarated by the message of Thy glad tidings. O God! Let this
American democracy become glorious in spiritual degrees even
as it has aspired to material degrees, and render this just gov-
ernment victorious. Confirm this revered nation to upraise the
standard of the oneness of humanity, to promulgate the Most
Great Peace, to become thereby most glorious and praisewor-
thy among all the nations of the world. O God! This American
nation is worthy of Thy favours and is deserving of Thy mercy.
Make it precious and near to Thee through Thy bounty and
bestowal (PUP 67).
`Abdu’l-Bahá did not eschew material progress, rather he connected
it to spiritual progress and education, explaining that it was the
spiritual nature of humans and their education that enabled material
progress to be made. So, for example, on 15 April he explained that
According to his natural power man should be able to commu-
nicate a limited distance, but by overcoming the restrictions of
nature he can annihilate space and send telephone messages
thousands of miles. All the sciences, arts and discoveries were
mysteries of nature, and according to natural law these mysteries
should remain latent, hidden; but man has proceeded to break
this law, free himself from this rule and bring them forth into the
realm of the visible. Therefore, he is the ruler and commander of
nature (PUP, 17).
Science and Material Progress
He was himself “greatly interested in modern inventions” and on
the ship “spent much of his time standing beside the wireless opera-
tor”, saying, “Science is not material; it is Divine … every other blessing
is temporary. Science is a blessing which man does not have to give
up.”(SW3(3) 4,17)17

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
However, he rejected that idea that nature is, in itself, perfect:
In these days there are new schools of philosophy blindly claim-
ing that the world of nature is perfect. If this is true, why are
children trained and educated in schools, and what is the need
of extended courses in sciences, arts and letters in colleges and
universities? What would be the result if humanity were left in
its natural condition without education or training? All scien-
tific discoveries and attainments are the outcomes of knowledge
and education. The telegraph, phonograph, telephone were
latent and potential in the world of nature but would never
have come forth into the realm of visibility unless man through
education had penetrated and discovered the laws which control
them. All the marvellous developments and miracles of what
we call civilization would have remained hidden, unknown and,
so to speak, nonexistent, if man had remained in his natural
condition, deprived of the bounties, blessings and benefits of
education and mental culture. The intrinsic difference between
the ignorant man and the astute philosopher is that the former
has not been lifted out of his natural condition, while the latter
has undergone systematic training and education in schools and
colleges until his mind has awakened and unfolded to higher
realms of thought and perception; otherwise, both are human
and natural (PUP 309–10).
And he also rejected the rather Dawkenesque materialism prevalent
at the time, as now:
One of the strangest things witnessed is that the materialists of
today are proud of their natural instincts and bondage. They
state that nothing is entitled to belief and acceptance except
that which is sensible or tangible. By their own statements
they are captives of nature, unconscious of the spiritual world,
uninformed of the divine Kingdom and unaware of heavenly

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
bestowals. If this be a virtue, the animal has attained it to a
superlative degree, for the animal is absolutely ignorant of the
realm of spirit and out of touch with the inner world of con-
scious realization. The animal would agree with the materialist
in denying the existence of that which transcends the senses. If
we admit that being limited to the plane of the senses is a virtue,
the animal is indeed more virtuous than man, for it is entirely
bereft of that which lies beyond, absolutely oblivious of the King-
dom of God and its traces, whereas God has deposited within
the human creature an illimitable power by which he can rule
the world of nature (PUP 177).
But he went further than this in explaining the relationship between
God and material progress,
Because it is the will of God in this Greatest Age that this teach-
ing of the union of the East and the West be put into practice,
therefore God has made ready the visible and invisible means
for its accomplishment. Material means such as steamships,
railway trains and aeroplanes, moving swiftly on sea and land,
these are but trying to put into practice the will of God. And
the electricity of telegraph and telephone, and the wireless, tell
us that this is the age of cooperation between East and West
(SW14, 59).
It is the soul of the human that enables scientific discoveries:
This other and inner reality is called the heavenly body, the
ethereal form which corresponds to this body. This is the con-
scious reality which discovers the inner meaning of things, for
the outer body of man does not discover anything. The inner
ethereal reality grasps the mysteries of existence, discovers
scientific truths and indicates their technical application. It
discovers electricity, produces the telegraph, the telephone and

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
opens the door to the world of arts. If the outer material body
did this, the animal would, likewise, be able to make scientific
and wonderful discoveries, for the animal shares with man all
physical powers and limitations. What, then, is that power
which penetrates the realities of existence and which is not to be
found in the animal? It is the inner reality which comprehends
things, throws light upon the mysteries of life and being, discov-
ers the heavenly Kingdom, unseals the mysteries of God and
differentiates man from the brute. Of this there can be no doubt
(PUP, 464–5).
`Abdu’l-Bahá also saw the great benefits of material progress, not just
for the material advantages that can be had but also because they
enable the unity of the world to be established, a primary teaching
of Bahá’u’lláh:
Now for the first time in the history of the world have the
mechanical difficulties in the way of the unity of mankind been
overcome by railway trains and steamships, tunnels and aero-
planes, post office and printing press, telegraph and telephone
(SW8, 84).
A constant theme of `Abdu’l-Bahá during his travels in the West was
the relationship between science and religion, two linked systems of
knowledge required for human progress.
Social Development
But it was social progress, progress towards world unity and peace
and a recognition of the oneness of humanity that seemed to interest
`Abdu’l-Bahá the most. Race unity, the advancement of women, the
education of girls, social justice, the eradication of poverty—these
were the interrelated issues that were high on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s agenda

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
and a constant theme of his talks. His own actions also reflected
these concerns: giving money equally to children, taking the clothes
from his own back to give to the needy, speaking to the alcoholics at
the Bowery Mission  not about temperance but about how Jesus and
Bahá’u’lláh loved the poor—and then giving them enough money to
buy a bed for a night.
`Abdu’l-Bahá was amazingly up to date with current events, com-
menting on wars in the Middle East, train disasters and of course
the sinking of the Titanic, a ship he had been urged to travel on. He
was aware of the social niceties of both Europe and America and was
happy to flout them if they flew in the face of a Bahá’í principle such
as the oneness of humankind.
Race Unity
`Abdu’l-Bahá seems to have been most impressed with the social
achievements of the Americans, particularly American Bahá’ís, to
bring about race unity. Even as late as 1967, it was illegal in 16 states
of the United States for members of different races to marry18 and
at the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels, 38 states had such laws. Segre-
gation of races in public was common almost everywhere, such that
black people were not able to stay in the same hotels as white people,
eat in the same restaurants or frequent the same clubs. For example,
when the Bahá’ís of New York hosted a reception for `Abdu’l-Bahá
in honour of the day of the Covenant in the ballroom of the Grand
Northern Hotel, the proprietor of the hotel refused entry to the
black Bahá’ís, saying, “If the people see that one coloured person has
entered my hotel, no respectable person will ever set foot in it and
my business will go to the winds” (Mahmúd 406–7). The Bahá’ís
responded not by cancelling the event but by hosting a separate one
the next day, 24 November, at the home of Mrs Kinney, with the
white women serving their black guests. `Abdu’l-Bahá approved of
this, saying:

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Today you have carried out the laws of the Blessed Beauty and
have truly acted according to the teachings of the Supreme Pen.
Behold what an influence and effect the words of Bahá’u’lláh
have had upon the hearts, that hating and shunning have been
forgotten and that prejudices have been obliterated to such an
extent that you arose to serve one another with great sincerity
(Mahmúd 407).
Similarly when `Abdu’l-Bahá was in Washington D.C., he was
very impressed that at one of the Bahá’í meetings, on 24 April at
the home of Mrs Andrew J. Dyer, both white and black people had
attended in good numbers. So moved was he at this demonstration of
Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching of the oneness of humanity that on his way to
the next meeting, at the home of inventor of the telephone, Alexander
Graham Bell, he was “wonderfully exhilarated” and “His voice could
be heard, loud and clear, exclaiming: ‘O Bahá’u’lláh! What hast Thou
done! O Bahá’u’lláh! May my life be sacrificed for Thee! O Bahá’u’lláh!
May my soul be offered up for Thy sake! How full were Thy days with
trials and tribulation! How severe the ordeals Thou didst endure! How
solid the foundations Thou hast finally laid, and how glorious the banner
Thou didst hoist’” (Balyuzi 182).
But perhaps the most telling episode was `Abdu’l-Bahá’s treatment
of Louis Gregory, a fairly new Bahá’í, a lawyer, who was black, at a
luncheon in Washington D.C. on 23 April 1912. It points up the
disconnect between what Bahá’ís said they believed and what they
actually did. Washington D.C. was a strictly segregated city. Only a
decade before, President Theodore Roosevelt had created a scandal
by inviting Booker T. Washington to dine with him.
In the morning `Abdu’l-Bahá had spoken at Howard University, an
educational institution for blacks, on the ‘harmony between blacks
and whites and the unity of humankind’ (Mahmúd 55). He then
went on to a luncheon at the home of  Ali Kuli Khan, the Chargé

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
d’Affaires for the Persian Legation. Apart from the host and his
family, there were 19 guests (Hollinger 31), many of them notables
of the city as well as a few Bahá’ís. About an hour before the lunch
`Abdu’l-Bahá sent word to Louis Gregory, who was not invited to the
luncheon, to attend a pre-luncheon conference at the house. The con-
ference went on and on but eventually the luncheon was announced
and everyone went into the dining room except Gregory, who waited
for an opportunity to leave the house. When everyone was seated,
`Abdu’l-Bahá “suddenly stood up, looked all around , and then said
to Mírzá Khan, Where is Mr Gregory? Bring Mr Gregory! There
was nothing for Mírzá Khan to do but find Mr Gregory… `Abdu’l-
Bahá had by this time rearranged the place setting [which of course
have been laid out in strict accordance with social protocol] and
made room for Mr Gregory, giving him the seat of honour at his
right. He stated he was very pleased to have Mr Gregory there, and
then, in the most natural way, as if nothing unusual had happened,
proceeded to give a talk on the oneness of mankind” (BW12, 668).
It is telling that Mahmúd, who mentions the luncheon, does not
mention this incident, yet so unusual was it to have a black man at
such a luncheon that Juliet Thompson mentioned it particularly in
her diary (Diary 270). When `Abdu’l-Bahá visited Washington for a
second time seven months later, the Bahá’ís organized a banquet for
300 people at Rauscher’s Hall, the first interracial social event held
by Bahá’ís in the city.19
`Abdu’l-Bahá urged Gregory, who had been on pilgrimage in 1911, to
consider marrying one of his fellow pilgrims, Englishwoman Louisa
Mathew. They were married in New York City on 27 September
1912—not only a cultural taboo but a criminal offence in many
states—and were the first interracial Bahá’í couple.
The Advancement of Women
The other area of great interest in the talks of `Abdu’l-Bahá was the
advancement of women. As  I have indicated in another paper,20 as

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
`Abdu’l-Bahá travelled in the West, he articulated and elucidated
the Bahá’í principle of the equality of women and men. This prin-
ciple although indicated in the Writings of Baha’u’llah, it was not
so prominently stated and  explained in the English translations of
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings, certainly not in the books and Tablets that
were available at the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s journey in 1911. There is,
also, some evidence that his articulation of it was shaped in response
to the social movements gaining momentum in the West at the time.
Some of the Tablets in which Bahá’u’lláh discussed this subject were
translated into English and published only in the mid-1980s, for
example:
All should know, and in this regard attain the splendours of the
sun of certitude, and be illumined thereby: Women and men
have been and will always be equal in the sight of God. The
DawningPlace of the Light of God sheddeth its radiance upon
all with the same effulgence. Verily God created women for men,
and men for women (CC2, 379).
While these Tablets were available to the Bahá’ís in the East, the
Bahá’ís in the West relied on `Abdu’l-Bahá to interpret his father’s
writings and to bring them to their attention. This he did during his
western travels, drawing out from Bahá’u’lláh’s writings the most
salient and timely of the concepts in them for a western audience.
It is not possible to expand on this theme greatly, other than to give
a partial list of what seem to me to be the most significant principles
regarding the advancement of women that `Abdu’l-Bahá articulated
in Paris, London and the United States:
1.	 The rights of all must be respected.
2.	 Men must recognise the equality of women.
3.	 Women must spiritualise themselves.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
4.	 Women have priority of education over men because women are
the first teachers of 	 humankind.
5.	 Women must be educated in the same areas as men.
6.	 Women must be given equal education in order for the world to
attain peace.
7.	 Women must enter the arts, sciences, industry and agriculture
and prove their capacity and ability.
8.	 Women must participate equally in the affairs of law, govern-
ment and community.
9.	 Once they are equal participants in world affairs, women will
prevent war.
10.	 Women are exempt from certain areas of service.
But there are certain matters, the participation in which is not
worthy of women. For example, at the time when the commu-
nity is taking up vigorous defensive measures against the attack
of foes, the women are exempt from military engagements (PT
183).
11.	 Bahá’í women must teach the Faith.
When he arrived in the West, the big issue in both England and the
United States was women’s suffrage. `Abdu’l-Bahá supported this
and spoke to suffragists and suffragette meetings on both continents,
stating that
…when perfect equality shall be established between men
and women, peace may be realized for the simple reason that
womankind in general will never favour warfare. Women
evidently [possibly meaning ‘obviously’] will not be willing to
allow those whom they have so tenderly cared for to go to the
battlefield. When they shall have a vote they will oppose any
cause of warfare (SW3(10), 24).

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
The Media
But there were some features of western society that `Abdu’l-Bahá
found very challenging. One was the media and the every-present
paparazzi. When `Abdu’l-Bahá travelled in the West he was some-
thing of a celebrity and had to contend with the media and paparazzi
much as celebrities have to do today. Journalists attended most of his
public meetings and had numerous private interviews with him. He
was met by reporters even as his ship docked in New York, being asked
about social issues such as votes for women. So many photographers
wanted to photograph him that while he was in London he decided
to have professional photos taken, saying ‘If the photographs must
be, it would be better to have good ones’ (Blomfield 64). Therefore a
number of studio portraits were taken in London, and again in Paris
a month later. `Abdu’l-Bahá even signed some photographs to give
away (Balyuzi 368).
Poverty Eradication
`Abdu’l-Bahá spoke much about poverty eradication and the allevia-
tion of the suffering of the poor but his actions in this area spoke more
loudly than his words. He was, in effect, a one-man social welfare sys-
tem in `Akká. Not only did he feed the poor, clean people’s houses, give
them clothes—distributing coats each year—and take care of the ill
by paying for doctors and medicine, he stockpiled food against times
of famine and even took people into his own house to protect them
and give them shelter. When he travelled to the West, he continued
his practice of generosity, distributing money to the homeless of New
York and other cities of America, literally giving the clothes off his
back to those in need, such as homeless tramp in New Hampshire, to
whom `Abdu’l-Bahá gave his trousers by merely stepping out of them
and handing them over.
When `Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in Britain, its welfare system was
just emerging. David Lloyd George and his Liberal Party had just
enacted the National Insurance Act 1911, which established a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
national insurance contribution for unemployment and health
benefits for workers, but the effects of this had yet to be felt when
`Abdu’l-Bahá visited London. Thus `Abdu’l-Bahá expressed concern
about ‘the destitute in the country villages as well as in London’ in
an ‘earnest talk’ with a parish rector:
I find England awake; there is spiritual life here. But your
poor are so very poor! This should not be. On the one hand
you have wealth, and great luxury; on the other hand men and
women are living in the extremities of hunger and want. This
great contrast of life is one of the blots on the civilization of this
enlightened age.
You must turn attention more earnestly to the betterment of the
conditions of the poor. Do not be satisfied until each one with
whom you are concerned is to you as a member of your family.
Regard each one either as a father, or as a brother, or as a sister,
or as a mother, or as a child. If you can attain to this, your
difficulties will vanish, you will know what to do. This is the
teaching of Bahá’u’lláh (ABL 91).
Purpose
While `Abdu’l-Bahá enjoyed his encounter with the West, meeting
people and experiencing new technologies, his primary focus was
always on bringing the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh to the people, calling
them to the “Kingdom of God”, as here, in speaking to an individual
in Denver:
I have come to your city and found tall buildings and advance-
ment in material civilization. Now I will lead you to my own
city which is the world above. Its administration is the oneness
of humanity, its law is international peace, its palaces are ever

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
shining with the lights of the Kingdom, its season is always
spring, its trees are ever green, its fruits are fresh and sweet, its
sun is ever ascending, its moon is always full, its stars are ever
brilliant and its planets are ever circling. That is our city and
the Founder is Bahá’u’lláh. We have enjoyed the pleasures of
this city and now I invite you to that city. I hope that you will
accept this invitation (Mahmúd 288–9).
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá.
Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1967.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

Tablet to the Hague.
`Abdu’l-Bahá in London. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
Anonymous account of `Abdu’lBahá’s visit to Bristol. United Kingdom Bahá’í
Archives.
The Bahá’í World. vols. 1B12, 1925B54. rpt. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1980.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1983.
Balyuzi, H. M. `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford:
George Ronald, 2nd ed. with minor corr. 1987.
Basil Hall, Mary. Sitarih Khanum (Sara, Lady Blomfield), A Brief Account of Her
Life and Work by Her Daughter, Mary Basil Hall. United Kingdom Bahá’í
Archives.
Blomfield, Lady [Sitárih Khánum; Sara Louise]. The Chosen Highway. Oxford:
George Ronald, rpt. 2007.
The Compilation of Compilations. Prepared by the Universal House of Justice
1963–1990. Vol. 2. [Mona Vale NSW]: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1991.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Diary of Juliet Thompson, The. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1983.
Gail, Marzieh. Arches of the Years. Oxford: George Ronald, 1991.
Greenberg, Ela. ‘Educating Muslim Girls in Mandatory Jerusalem’. International
Journal of Middle East Studies, 36 (2004).
Hollinger, Richard, ed. `Abdu’l-Bahá in America: Agnes Parsons’ Diary. Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1996.
Ives, Howard Colby. Portals to Freedom. London: George Ronald, 1967.
Mahmúd-i-Zarqání. Mahmúd’s Diary. Oxford: George Ronald, 1998.
Nakhjavani, Violette. The Maxwells of Montreal: Early Years 1870–1922. Oxford:
George Ronald, 2011.
Rabbani, Ahang. `Abdu’lBahá Meeting with Two Prominent Iranians:  http://
bahailibrary.com/articles/qazvini.html
Rabbaní, Rúhíyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969.
Rutstein, Nathan. He Loved and Served: The Story of Curtis Kelsey. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1982.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Islam. New York: SUNY Press, 1992.
Star of the West. rpt. Oxford: George Ronald, 1984.
NOTES
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windsor_Hotel
http://www.jerusaleminsidersguide.com/ancientjerusalem1918.html
http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=LkAvPDl5yfgC&pg=PA151&lpg=PA151
&dq=telegram+haifa&source=bl&ots=wLMITAE5s8&sig=CCaNdCJ1O36Ji0
Vgf2MHQxWTCE&hl=en&ei=ir9Tf7PJIy28QPi1bCpCQ&sa=X&oi=book_
result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBzgK#v=onepage&q=teleg
ram%20haifa&f=false
http://www.virtualtourist.com/travel/Middle_East/Israel/
Haifa_District/Haifa1708915/Things_To_DoHaifaMISCBR1.
html#tip=2137519#ixzz1QbZBPeOL

http://www.virtualtourist.com/travel/Middle_East/Israel/Haifa_District/
Haifa1708915/Things_To_DoHaifaMISCBR1.html#tip=2137519.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
http://www.iranpresswatch.org/post/895
See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/state_organisation_of_the_Ottoman_Empire
http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:WDJf2_Qut1wJ:web.clark.
edu/afisher/HIST253/lecture_text/WomenMiddleEastNorthAfrica1619c.
pdf+19th+century+women+ottomans&hl=en&gl=uk&pid=bl&srcid=AD
GEEShLzhjEQBRZbxQIqosxPM_Knc1PhlzdU1Cq1vuOEfgqTtrckRmcp-
biTw1GkmIDqLKVkKbxwN1HLwZ6Wd_ZByaoexgCgXaC6k2Vd8VQqr
Y0EKvzXT9JvmYjvoN8Qtnp18HmSus&sig=AHIEtbQVfOzAL1vhcIsQdj
nHL_xunGM6wQ
http://www.dunyatimes.com/en/?p=9763
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_automobile.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Model_T
Balyuzi 183, 238, 240, 251, 266, 274, 281, 312, 370, 380, 389, 393; Blomfield
165; Gail 80, 92, 112, 208; Diary 84, 89, 92, 104; Ives 61, 137–8; Mahmúd
111–12, 213, 217, 223.
One day while he was in Montreal `Abdu’l-Bahá went out alone and boarded a
tram, which took him out of the city. He then changed to another tram, which
took him further from the city. He then took a taxi back but did not know the
name of the hotel. However, he did point out the direction to the taxi driver and
eventually arrived at his hotel. When he told his companions about his adven-
ture he recalled an incident from the Holy Land. When Áqá Faraj, a Bahá’í
from `Akká, had lost his way. `Abdu’lBahá suggested he remove his donkey’s
halter. The freed animal found its own way to their destination. `Abdu’l-Bahá
laughingly explained that the taxi had also found its own way to the hotel
(Mahmúd 241; Balyuzi 265).
http://www.telephonymuseum.com/
http://www.birchills.net/19101930telephones/
http://bahailibrary.com/articles/qazvini.html: `Abdu’lBaha Meeting with Two
Prominent Iranians; Ahang Rabbani.
http://www.craftsmanoutdoorlighting.com/uslightinghistory.html
W. P. Dodge, in Star of the West, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 4, 17.
See Loving v. Virginia at http://www.ameasite.org/loving.asp
http://www.bahaiencyclopediaproject.org/index.php?option=com_content&vie
w=article&id=63:gregorylouisgeorge&catid=37:biography
‘The Two Wings of Humanity: `Abdu’l-Baha’s Articulation of the Equality of
Women and Men During His Western Travels’, 2010.(to be published soon)

Interpretation and Elucidation
Ali Nakhjavani
Introduction
The word ‘Interpreter’ or the act of  ‘interpretation’ is used sometimes
to refer to God’s Manifestations. However, it is more commonly used
to apply to Appointed Souls who have been specifically invested with
the authority to interpret Their Utterances. Such interpretations are
regarded authoritative and binding.
Regarding the first usage, we read for example from the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh the following: “He hath in every age and cycle, in con-
formity with His transcendent wisdom, sent forth...One Who is indeed
the Expounder, the true Interpreter” (TAB 161). A typical example of
this kind of function is Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation of the Kitáb-i-Íqán
where He  expounds and interprets the metaphors  and mysteries
hidden in the scriptures of the past.
The second usage which is  in line with the theme of this discus-
sion, applies to the specific authority conveyed by the Manifestation
of God to appointed individuals. We find the following, for example,
from the Pen of Bahá’u’lláh: “Know assuredly that just as thou firmly
believeth that the Word of God, exalted be His glory, endureth for ever,
thou must, likewise, believe with undoubting faith that its meaning  can
never be exhausted.  They who are its appointed interpreters, they whose
hearts are the repositories of its secrets, are, however, the only ones who can
comprehend its manifold wisdom” (GWB 175).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Of course individual believers can also give their own interpretation
and comprehension of the teachings, and these could be interesting,
but they can never be binding on the friends.  The Universal House of
Justice has explained this question very clearly: “A clear distinction is
made in our Faith between authoritative interpretation and the inter-
pretation or understanding that each individual arrives at for himself
from his study of its teachings.  While the former is confined to the
Guardian, the latter, according to the guidance given to us by the
Guardian himself, should by no means be suppressed. In fact such
individual interpretation is considered the fruit of man’s rational
power and conducive to a better understanding of the teachings,
provided that no disputes or arguments arise among the friends and
the individual himself understands and makes it clear that his views
are merely his own. Individual interpretations continually change as
one grows in comprehension of the teachings” (MUHJ 88).
Two Appointed and Authorized Interpreters
In this Dispensation there were two and only two Authorized
Interpreters, `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi.
Regarding `Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’u’lláh refers to Him as the “Mystery of
God”, the “Limb of the Law of God”, He through Whose “knowledge
and wisdom” the world will be “illumined”, and Who is “an ocean of
bounty unto all men..(WOB135– 6) In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh
clearly enjoins upon His followers: “[R]efer ye whatsoever ye understand
not in the Book to Him Who hath branched from this mighty Stock” (KA
#174). Based on such assertions `Abdu’l-Bahá declared: “I am the
Interpreter of the Word of God”, He again writes:  “I am the manifest
Interpreter of the Word of God” (WOB 133 & 132).
As to Shoghi Effendi, in His Will and Testament,  `Abdu’l-Bahá
refers to him as the “Expounder of the words of God” (WT 11), and the

Interpretation and Elucidation
“Interpreter” (WOB 148).  And Shoghi Effendi in reference to himself
clearly states that “he has been specifically endowed with such power
as he may need to reveal the purport and disclose the implications of
the utterances of Bahá’u’lláh and of `Abdu’l-Bahá” (WOB 151).
In the quotation above, the word “purport” means that which is
intended, while the word “implications” means that which is implied
but not plainly expressed.  Thus the function of an Authorized Inter-
preter is to unveil for us the intention and hidden meanings of what is
outwardly and explicitly revealed. This seems to be why Shoghi
Effendi in his “God Passes By”, does not only refer to `Abdu’l-Bahá as
the Interpreter of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, but the “Interpreter
of His Mind” (GPB 245).
As stated above such Appointed Interpreters, such Depositories of
the hidden secrets of God’s Utterances, and such Disclosers of the
Mind of the Author or Authors of revealed words,  were confined to
two inspired Luminaries, namely `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi.
What is Elucidation?
To elucidate is to make clear something which is unclear, or to
determine that which is indefinite. We see for example that Shoghi
Effendi has written that some of the laws of the Aqdas needed sub-
sidiary “elaboration and elucidation”, and for this purpose Bahá’u’lláh
revealed a number of Tablets after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas during the latter
part of His life (GPB 216).  In their writings both `Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi had to elucidate certain matters, as was called for.
If their elucidations stemmed from their inner knowledge of
the intent of   a sacred text revealed, then undoubtedly such pro-
nouncements would fall in the category of   interpretations.   If
however, `Abdu’l-Bahá or Shoghi Effendi, as Inspired Heads of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Faith, were clarifying what steps needed to be taken in a situation
which was indefinite, then the elucidation or preferably the guidance
given  would clearly not be a form of interpretation.
The Universal House of Justice has explained the difference between
the two situations in one of its letters, from which we quote: “The
elucidations of the Universal House of Justice stem from its legislative
function and as such differ from interpretation.  The divinely inspired
legislation of the House of Justice does not attempt to say what the
revealed word means—it states what must be done in cases where
the revealed Text or its authoritative interpretation is not explicit. It
is, therefore, on quite a different level from the Sacred Text and the
Universal House of Justice is empowered to abrogate or amend its
own legislation whenever it judges the conditions make this desirable”
(From a letter to an individual believer dated 15 December 1994).
Among the powers and duties of the Universal House of Justice,
in accordance with its Constitution, is “to analyse, classify and
coordinate the Writings”(CUHJ 5). The terms as quoted are the
exact words used in one of Shoghi Effendi’s letters, explaining the
duties of the Universal House of Justice.  It is not too difficult to
understand that such ‘analysis’ and ‘coordination’ of texts  would
be necessary for the Universal House of Justice to enable it to take
decisions on “questions that are obscure” as stated by `Abdu’l-Bahá
in His Will and Testament, when He was listing the duties of the
Universal House of Justice (WT 20).

Obscure Questions
One of the immediate ‘obscure’ matters that the Universal House
of Justice had to elucidate soon after its election was whether the
institution of the Guardianship as an on-going institution had
terminated or was it to be extended into the future. The House of

Interpretation and Elucidation
Justice’s decision was conveyed on 6 October 1963. It read that “there
is no way to appoint or to legislate to make it possible to appoint a sec-
ond Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi” ( MUHJ 14). The decision
had a preamble stating that the decision was taken after “prayerful
and careful study of the Holy Texts” and consultation with the Hands
of the Cause residing in the Holy Land. We could say that this was
elucidation through legislation.
In the days of the Guardian the American National Spiritual
Assembly asked Shoghi Effendi about the nature of the Court of
Arbitration mentioned in the Writings. Shoghi Effendi’s reply was as
follows: “[R]egarding the nature and scope of the Universal Court of
Arbitration , this and other similar matters will have to be explained
and elucidated  by the Universal House of Justice , to which, according
to the Master’s explicit Instructions, all important and fundamental
questions must be referred” (BA 47).  This would certainly be another
form of elucidation through legislation.

The House of Justice Explains
In one of its main messages, the Universal House of Justice dealt with
the question of the difference between interpretation and elucidation.
It would be best to end this essay by quoting the relevant section of
that message on this subject:
There is a profound difference between the interpretations of
the Guardian and the elucidations of the House of Justice in
exercise of its function to “deliberate upon all problems which
have caused difference, questions that are obscure and matters that
are not expressly recorded in the Book.” The Guardian reveals
what the Scripture means; his interpretation is a statement
of truth which cannot be varied. Upon the Universal House
of Justice, in the words of the Guardian, “has been conferred

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
the exclusive right of legislating on matters not expressly
revealed in the Bahá’í writings.” Its pronouncements, which
are susceptible of amendment or abrogation by the House
of Justice itself, serve to supplement and apply the Law of
God. Although not invested with the function of interpreta-
tion, the House of Justice is in a position to do everything
necessary to establish the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh on
this earth. Unity of doctrine is maintained by the existence
of the authentic texts of Scripture and the voluminous
interpretations of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi together
with the absolute prohibition against anyone propounding
“authoritative” or “inspired” interpretations or usurping the
function of Guardian. Unity of administration is assured
by the authority of the Universal House of Justice. (F64.
WOB, p. 153.)
“Such,” in the words of Shoghi Effendi, “is the immutability of
His revealed Word. Such is the elasticity which characterizes
the functions of His appointed ministers. The first preserves
the identity of His Faith, and guards the integrity of His law.
The second enables it, even as a living organism, to expand and
adapt itself to the needs and requirements of an ever-changing
society” (Letter dated 21 March 1930, The World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, p. 23)” (MUHJ 56).

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written Before 1863
Julio Savi1
A provisional list of Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian poems written before 1863
is provided. These poems are described as an early fruit of the mys-
tical experiences Bahá’u’lláh had in the Síyáh-Chál of Teheran in
October 1852. Those experiences produced in Him an irresistible
‘fire of love’ that He sang in those poems. Bahá’u’lláh’s love was not a
common love, it was “that spiritual attraction and that ecstatic love
of the lovers of the Beauteous One for the beauty within their own
self”2, which later on `Abdu’l-Bahá described in His ‘Commentary
to the Tradition of the Hidden Treasure’. Bahá’u’lláh uses in these
compositions the language of the ancient Persian mystical poets, but
He also introduces new perspectives. Persian ancient mystical poems
are mostly pervaded by an incurable feeling of separation and remote-
ness and by the consequent pain. Bahá’u’lláh also mentions the pains
of the lover. They are the pains the lover should be ready to accept if
he wants to come closer to his Beloved. The Beloved says to his lover:
"If thine aim be to cherish thy life, approach not our court; / But if
sacrifice be thy heart’s desire, come and let others come with thee”.
However, whereas the pains of the lover in the ancient Persian poetry
were hopeless, Bahá’u’lláh’s poems also speak of the joys of nearness
and reunion, which are made possible by the presence of the Beloved
Himself Who “Like unto Joseph in Egypt, moves now through alleys
and bazaars” and “hath renewed the world through His Cause, / And
quickened the spirit of Jesus by His breath”.
Bahá’u’lláh produced a great amount of Writings, “a hundred volumes”
writes Shoghi Effendi (PDC 6). They are the core of Bahá’í Scripture.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Most of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings are in prose, only a few of them are
in poetry. All these poetic works were seemingly written in the Iraqi
period. Only one of them may have been completed in Adrianople.
Scripture and poetry
All religions have sacred Texts written in poetry. Some of the poetical
passages of the Scriptures of the various religions have become popular
even outside the circles of their respective followers. Hindu Scriptures
are very rich in poems. The Rig Veda and the Mahabharata (ca.500
BC) are written in poetry. The well-known Bhagavad Gita (Song of
God), a part of the Mahabharata, is a poem, comprising 700 verses.
As to Buddhism, the Dhammapada, the Theravada Jatakas and the
Buddhacharita (‘Acts of the Buddha’) are poems. As to Zoroastrian-
ism, many scholars think that Zarathustra was a poet-priest. The five
Gathas, a word variously rendered as ‘Hymns’, ‘poems’, or ‘psalms’,
supposedly composed by Zarathustra Himself (see Boyce, Textual
Sources 2), and the 24 (Boyd, “Zoroastrianism” 110) or 21 (Gnoli, “La
religione zoroastriana” 504) Yashts are poems. As to the Old Testa-
ment, three books of the Ketuvim, also known as Hagiographa, that
is Psalms, Lamentations and Song of Songs, are grouped by the Jews
under the name of ‘Poetry Books’. As to the New Testament, although
verses are not included in its canonical texts, there are a number of
passages of poetical beauty, as for example the so called ‘Song of Mary’,
also known as Magnificat, from the incipit of its Latin version (Luke
1:46–54, KJV), one of the eight most ancient Christian hymns. As to
Islam, the Qur’án is not versified, but some of its pages sound, to our
ears, as highly poetical. The poems written by Imám ‘Alí also are part
of the religious Islamic tradition. The Bahá’ís are familiar with two
verses by Imám ‘Alí, because they are quoted at the beginning of The
Secret of Divine Civilization: “Dost thou think thyself only a puny form,
when the universe is folded up within thee?” (SDC 19).

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Poetical Writings by Bahá’u’lláh
The poems written by Bahá’u’lláh, which the present writer has found
in the main collections of Bahá’u’lláh’s Arabic and Persian Writings
available to the general public or whose existence is mentioned in
public documents, are as follows.
1. Rashḥ-i-‘Amá’:3 Shoghi Effendi writes that this poem, composed of
twenty one-rhymed couplets, was "revealed in Ṭihrán," and is among
"the first fruits of… [Bahá’u’lláh’s] Divine Pen" (GPB 121). Therefore
it may date back to His incarceration in the Síyáh-Chál. Rashḥ-i-
‘Amá was translated by Stephen N. Lambden, an English Bahá’í
scholar focusing on Shi‘i Islam and Qajar Persia, early Shaykhism,
the Writings of the Báb, the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, under the tile
of ‘Sprinkling of the Cloud of Unknowing’.4 Ramin Neshati, who
also translated other Bahá’í Writings, wrote an introduction and
translation of this poem, which he called ‘Tablet of the Mist of the
Unknown’.5 Juan R. Cole, American historian of the modern Middle
East and South Asia, translated it as ‘Sprinkling of the Cloud Beyond
Being’.6 John Wiegley, a former student of philosophy at George
Mason University, a poet, and a student of mysticism and of the Seven
Valleys (2003), also translated it, as ‘The pre-eternal Reality poureth
forth from Our ecstasy’.7
2–10. Eight poems, published by the Iranian Bahá’í scholar
`Abdu’l-Ḥamíd Ishráq Khávarí (1902–1972) in his multi-volume
anthology of the Writings of the ‘Central Figures’ of the Bahá’í
Faith Má’idiy-i-Asmání (4:176–211). Ishráq Khávarí in reality
quotes the text of ten poems, because he also gives the texts of
the above mentioned Rashḥ-i-‘Amá and of Qaṣídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih,
an ode of 127 verses written in Arabic. Excerpts from these and
other poems of Bahá’u’lláh are also included by the Iranian Bahá’í
scholar Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fáḍil Mázandárání (ca.1880–1957), in
his Taríkh Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq (History of the Manifestation of Truth),

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
a nine volume history of the Bábí and Bahá’í religions (4:141–42).
These poems have been most probably written in Kurdistan, where
Bahá’u’lláh remained from 10 April 1854 to 19 March 1856 and,
in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, “lived in poverty”, wearing the “garments…
of the poor and needy” and eating the “food… of the indigent and
lowly” (Quoted in GPB 124). The attribution of the drafting of
these poems to the years of His stay in Kurdistan, during which
He was in touch with the local Sufi communities, seems confirmed
by their takhallus, the nom de plume introduced in the final verse of
the poems according to the use of Persian lyrics. All these poems
are signed ‘dervish’ and in that period Bahá’u’lláh had adopted
the surname of Darvísh Muḥammad. Three of these poems are
mentioned in the Bahá’í World volumes among ‘Bahá’u’lláh Best
Known Writings’: Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, Qaṣídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih,
and Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá. A provisional rhyming translation of
Qaṣídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih has been undertaken by Cole, with the title
‘Ode of the Dove’.8 Brian Miller has published an unrhymed poetic
version of this Ode in his Ph.D. dissertation (U.C. Berkeley, 2000).
Franklin D. Lewis, an expert in Persian Language and Literature,
especially Rúmí, has offered three different translations of Sáqí az
Ghayb-i-Baqá (‘Short Poem’ 86–9). Some of these poems, that is
Bí jánán ján hamí daryaft, Sáqí bidih ábí, Mast-and bulbulán, are
mentioned, and a few of their verses translated, by Lambden in his
‘Sinaitic Mysteries’ (116–7).
11. Ay Bulbulán:9 This eleven verses poem, without takhallus, is
ascribed by Fáḍil-i Mazandarání to the Kurd period (Taríkh Ẓuhúru’l-
Ḥaqq 4:142). A partial translation of this poem is authored by Cole.10
12. Mathnavíy-i-Mubárak:11 According to Lewis this 318 verses poem
"was evidently composed over a period of time, beginning perhaps as
early as his retreat to Iraqi Kurdistan, and certainly by his time in
Baghdad, but completed only after his arrival in Istanbul" (‘Short
Poem’ 83). He suggests that this work "is apparently the longest

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
work he composed in verse, and perhaps also one of the last, though
the dating of many of his books, tablets, poems and his voluminous
correspondence remains rather tentative" (‘Poetry as Revelation’
103). A provisional verse translation with annotations of this poem
made by the same Lewis and accompanied by an introduction has
been published in 2000.12
13. The Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
mentions in one of its letters a Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh that begins with
the words, "In My Name, the Humourist [al-mazzah] [provisional
translation]”. The Research Department clarifies that this Tablet
is a serious mystical poem, revealed in the form of a prayer.
The text does not illuminate the reference to the ‘Humourist’.
It is, however, interesting to note that, while dealing with
an exalted theme, the language of expression is, unexpect-
edly, that of the common people—light, simple, and even
colloquial.13
This Tablet has been recently published by Vahid Rafati, director of
the Research Department at the Bahá’í World Centre, in his book
Yádnámiy-i-Baydáy-i-Núrá (171).
14. A poem beginning with the words Sáqí, bi-dih án jám-i-Huva Hú
(Quoted in Rafatí, Yádnámih 170)
In conclusion we have found 14 poems written by Bahá’u’lláh. Only one
of these poems is in Arabic, Qaṣídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih. Only Mathnavíy-i-
Mubárak was completed when Bahá’u’lláh had already left Iraq.14
As to the Writings by Bahá’u’lláh listed by Lewis among those, which
“observe some, but not all, of the rules of classical metrics and prosody
[and]… transcend the category of rhymed prose [nathr-i Musajja’] and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
exhibit litany-like features that might be classed as a form of versifica-
tion [nazm) or quasi-verse” (‘Short Poem’ 83)’, they comprise:15
1. Subḥana Rabbíya’l-A‘lá:16 This 45 verses Tablet, written in Arabic,
part in prose and part in poetry, was composed in Baghdad and trans-
lated by Cole as ‘Praised be My Lord, the Most High’.17 Taherzadeh
writes about it:
He portrays in dramatic terms the appearance before Him
of the ‘Maid of Heaven’, personifying the ‘Most Great Spirit’,
and alludes to His own Revelation in such terms as no pen
can describe. The whole Tablet conveys in symbolic language
the joyous tidings of the advent of the Day of God, at the
same time warning the faithful to beware of tests which will
befall them, causing many to be deprived of attaining to His
glory and grace. (Revelation 1:212)
2. Lawḥ-i-Ghulámu’l-Khuld:18 This Tablet, written partly in Arabic
and partly in Persian, was written in the early 1860s in Baghdad “to
celebrate the anniversary of the Declaration of the Báb” (Taherzadeh
1:213) and translated by John Walbridge, an expert of Near Eastern
Languages and Cultures, as the ‘Tablet of the Deathless Youth’.19
3. Ḥúr-i-‘Ujáb:20 This Tablet, written in Arabic, was composed in
Baghdad “as the year 1863 drew closer” (Taherzadeh 1:210). It was
translated by Cole as the ‘Houri of Wonder’21 and by Denis MacEoin,
a novelist and a former lecturer in Islamic studies, as ‘Litany by
Baha’Allah’ (Rituals 132–3), and commented upon by Walbridge
(Sacred Acts 239) and Taherzadeh (Revelation 1:218).
4. Lawḥ-i-Malláḥu’l-Quds, ‘The Tablet of the Holy Mariner’:22 This
Tablet divided into two parts, one in Arabic and the other in Persian,
was revealed in Baghdad just before Naw Rúz 1863 (see GPB 147).
The Arabic part has been translated into English by Shoghi Effendi

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
and originally published in Star of the West,23 with the following note,
“received in America in April 1922”. Michael W. Sours, who has
authored several books dealing with the Bahá’í Faith and Christianity,
has published a study of this Tablet.24
5. Lawḥ-i-Bulbulu’l-Firáq:25 This Tablet, written in Arabic and Persian,
was composed, according to Ishráq Khávarí and Taherzadeh (Revela-
tion 1:244–5), in the late period of Baghdad and, according to Cole,
in Istanbul. Cole has translated it as ‘Nightingale of Separation’.26
Taherzadeh writes about it: “Bahá’u’lláh reminds His loved ones
that the period of union has come to an end, that the Nightingale
of Paradise has taken its flight from one branch and is now about to
establish its nest on another” (Revelation 1:244–5).
6. Az Bágh-i-Ilahí:27 According to Taherzadeh this ode, composed by
31 couples of verses, one in Persian and one in Arabic, was "revealed
not long before the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh" (Revelation 1:218).
7. Lawḥ-i-Halih, Halih, Halih, Yá Bishárat:28 This 26 verses poem
was presumably revealed in the spring of 1863 in Baghdad, just a
short time before Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration in the Garden of Riḍván.29
A provisional translation of this poem was offered by Lambden in
1983.30 Another more metrical version was made by Sen McGlinn,
the author of the so called Leiden list of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets.31
8. A ‘Tablet of the Feast of Riḍván’:32 It is an Arabic Tablet translated
by Ali-Kuli Khan (ca.1879–1966), eminent Iranian Bahá’í and the
first to translate into English some of the most important works of
Bahá’u’lláh, and his daughter Marzieh Gail (1908–1993), an eminent
Bahá’í writer and translator, who wrote the following note: “This
tablet was revealed by Bahá’u’lláh when He Declared Himself to be
recited at the Feast of Ridwan”.33

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
9. Subḥánika-Yá-Hú, known as Lawḥ-i-Náqús:34 It is an Arabic Tablet
“revealed in Constantinople on the eve of the 5th of Jamádíyu’l-Avval
1280 A.H. (19 October 1863), the anniversary of the Declaration of
the Báb” (Taherzadeh, Revelation 2:18). It was translated by MacEoin
as the ‘Tablet of the Bell’ (Rituals 169–72) and by Lambden as the
‘Tablet of the Bell’.35
10. Lawḥ-i-Ru’yá:36 Described by Shoghi Effendi as the “Tablet of
the Vision” (GPB 221), it was revealed in Arabic on the eve of 1
March 1873, in the House of ‘Údí Khammár in ‘Ákká, translated by
Lambden37 and Cole.38 An earlier translation of this Tablet appeared
in Bahá’í Scriptures, under the title ‘The Tablet of the Virgin’ (249–51,
sec. 525). Taherzadeh writes about it:
In the Lawḥ-i-Ru’yá Bahá’u’lláh describes His vision of
a Maiden dressed in white and illumined with the light of
God. She entered the room in which Bahá’u’lláh was seated
upon His throne of Lordship. She displayed an indescribable
enthusiasm and devotion, circled around Him, was enrap-
tured by the inebriation of His Presence, was thunderstruck
at His Glory. And when she recovered, she remained in a
state of bewilderment. She longed to offer up her life for her
Beloved and finding Him captive in the hands of the unfaith-
ful, she bade Him leave ‘Akká to its inhabitants and repair
to His other dominions ‘whereon the eyes of the people of
names have never fallen’, words which found their fulfilment
nineteen years later with the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh. In the
absence of a translation it is not possible to convey the beauty
of the verses and the mystery of the subject revealed in the
Lawḥ-i-Ru’yá. The theme of this Tablet is as enchanting as it
is unfathomable and mysterious. (Revelation 3:223)
The contents of this Tablet is summarized by Walbridge as proph-
esizing “Bahá’u’lláh’s death” (Sacred 161).

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
11. Lawḥ-i Anta’l-Káfí, literally, Tablet of ‘Thou the Sufficing’,
known as the Long Healing Prayer:39 The authorized English
translation from the original Arabic of this Tablet was published
on 13 August 1980.40
12. Lawḥ-i-Qad-Iḥtaraqa’l-Mukhliṣún, known as ‘The Fire Tablet’
(Quoted in Risáliy-i-Taṣbíḥ va Tahlíl 219–24; Adí‘iy-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-Maḥbúb
169–79; INBA 30; Nafahat-i Faḍl 2): the authorized English trans-
lation from the original Arabic of this Tablet was published on 13
August 1980.41 It  is discussed in Taherzadeh, Revelation 3:226–30;
Balyuzi, King 321–22; Cole, ‘Modernity’ 94.
13. A poetic composition beginning with the words Shams-i-jamál-i-
iláhí (Quoted in INBA 32:31–4): this Arabic composition in rhyming
prose is described by Lambden, who translated a part of it, as possibly
“written by Bahá’u’lláh for His disciple Darvísh Ṣidq- ‘Alí Qazvíní”
(‘Sinaitic Mysteries’ 125) in the Iraqi period. McGlinn mentions
it as ‘Lawh-i Shajara (Tablet of the Burning Bush)’ (‘Leiden List’,
no.270), possibly because it refers to the ‘Sinaitic Lote-Tree’ (quoted
in Lambden ‘Sinaitic Mysteries’ 126). It has been provisionally
translated by Necati Alkan, an expert in Turkish Bahá’í Studies, in
2003–2007, as ‘Tablet on the Daystar of Divine Beauty’.42
Possible reasons why Bahá’u’lláh composed His poems
It is very difficult for us to understand the reasons why Bahá’u’lláh
has decided to compose these poems, because it is impossible for us
to enter into a Mind so deep and incomparable. `Abdu’l-Bahá said
about it: ‘This universal mind is divine; it embraces existing realities,
and it receives the light of the mysteries of God’ (SAQ 218, sec. 58,
para.4). The following reflections are purely personal and exploratory.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
First of all it seems that Bahá’u’lláh loved poetry very much. We
can deduce it from the numerous quotations from ancient poets He
introduced into His Works, especially the Seven Valleys and the
Four Valleys: Faríd ad-Dín ‘Aṭṭár (1117–1290), whose model of the
Seven Valleys He decided to reproduce and whose verses He quoted
in the Seven Valleys (SV8) and the Four Valleys (FV64); Khájih
Shamsu’d-Dín Muḥammad Ḥáfiẓ-i-Shírází (ca.1318–1390), whose
famous ghazal, “Sugar-shattering… have become all the parrots… of
Hindustan” (Dīvān 310, no.158, v.3), He quoted at the beginning of
His Tablet known as Lawḥ-i-Shikar-Shikan Shikand; Siyyid Aḥmad
Hátif (unknown–1783), whose verses He quoted in the Seven Val-
leys (SV12, 38); ‘Umar Ibn al-Fáriḍ (1182–1235), whose verses He
quoted in the Seven Valleys (SV30, 42) and Jawáhiru’l-Asrár (JA67
and 69); Mawláná Jalál ad-Dín Rúmí (1207–1273); Muṣlih ad-Dín
Sa‘dí (ca.1184–1291), whose verses He quoted in the Seven Valleys
(SV24) and the Four Valleys (FV47, 48, 48-9, 55-6, and 65) and
upon whose verse, “Wonder not, if my Best-Beloved be closer to
me than mine own self; wonder at this, that I, despite such near-
ness, should still be so far from Him”, He commented in a Tablet;43
Majdúd Saná’í (ca.1045–ca.1141), whose verses He quoted in the
Four Valleys (FV52, 60) and in Lawḥ-i-Ra’ís (SLH 170). It seems
that Bahá’u’lláh loved especially Rúmí, considering that He quoted
him more often than all the others. Perhaps this love moved Him
to write His Own Mathnaví, a poem that “in addition to the title
and the trope of the reed pipe which opens Rumi’s Mathnaví and
closes Bahá’u’lláh’s, shares the same metre” (Lewis, ‘Bahá’u’lláh’s
Mathnaví’ 116). Besides, He devoted part of His Lawḥ-i-Salmán
(see GWB, sec. XXI, CXLVIII, CLIV) to a comment upon a verse
by Rúmí (Mathnaví 1:2466):
When the colourless became enmeshed in colours || a Moses
came in conflict with a Moses.44

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Moreover `Abdu’l-Bahá narrates, in His description of the life of
Ustád Ismá‘íl, one of the companions who followed Bahá’u’lláh in
the Holy Land, that:
At one time, Bahá’u’lláh had written down an ode of Rúmí’s
for him, and had told him to turn his face toward the Báb
and sing the words, set to a melody. And so as he wandered
through the long dark nights, Ustád would sing these lines:
I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed,
[Ay ‘ishq man-am az tú sar-gashtih-u sawdá’í]
Love’s fool am I, in all the earth.
[va andar hamiy-i-‘álam mashhúr bi shaydá’í]
They call me first among the crazed,
[dar námiy-i-majnúnán az nám-i-man ágházand]
Though I once came first for wit and worth.
[zín písh agar búd-am sar daftar-i-dáná’í]
O Love, who sellest me this wine,
[Ay bádih furúsh-i- man]
O Love, for whom I burn and bleed,
[sar máyiy-i-júsh-i-man]
Love, for whom I cry and pine—
[Ay az tú khurúsh-i-man]
Thou the Piper, I the reed.
[man náyam-u tú náyy]
If Thou wishest me to live,
[Gar zindigí-am khwáhí]
Through me blow Thy holy breath.
[dar man nafasí dar dam]
The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give
[man murdiy-i-ṣad sálih]
To me, who’ve lain an age in death.
[tú ján-i-masíḥá’í]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Thou, both End and Origin,
[Avval-i-tú-vu ákhir tú]
Thou without and Thou within—
[ẓáhir-i-tú-vu báṭin tú]
From every eye Thou hidest well,
[mastúr zi har chashmí]
And yet in every eye dost dwell.
[dar ‘ayn-i-huvyadá’í] (MF 30–1)45
Thus it is possible that Bahá’u’lláh wrote His poems just because of
His love for poetry.
Two other practical reasons could be that in those early years
Bahá’u’lláh was mostly addressing Sufi audiences who had a great
familiarity with mystical poetry. And moreover poetry is very easy
to memorize.
Bahá’u’lláh wrote about poetry in His Lawḥ-i-Maqṣúd:
Every word of thy poetry is indeed like unto a mirror in
which the evidences of the devotion and love thou cherish-
est for God and His chosen ones are reflected (TB175–6,
Lawḥ-i-Maqṣúd)
He describes poetry as a mirror of the feelings of the heart. We could
therefore think that His mystical experiences in the Síyáh-Chál
aroused in Him the urgency to speak about them to others, as it
happens to whoever has a mystical experience, as different as the level
of such experience may be for them when compared with the level of
that of the Manifestation of God. However, since He perceived that
human beings were not yet ready to receive His open Declaration,
He preferred to adopt the veiled language of mystical poetry. For
the same reason, He seemingly stopped writing poems in later years,
when He had already declared and proclaimed His Mission. In

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
this sense the invitation to keep silence that recurs at the end of a
number of His poems could be, not much a mere rhetorical device,
but the reflection of an inner tension between the impulse to reveal
the secret of the Intimation received in the Síyáh-Chál, even at the
cost of His life (see Báz áv-u bi-dih, v. 12, quoted in MA 4:187),
an impulse generated by a great compassion for the world that “is
consumed by the flame of the burning Divine Flame [súkht az ín
shu‘liy-i-ján-súz ilahí]” (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 15, quoted in MA
4:211), and the awareness of the immaturity of the times (see Saḥar
ámad bi bistar-am yár, v. 34, quoted in MA 4:184).
In this respect His poems are as windows opened on His heart and
His recent mystical experiences. We can thus expect them to reveal
the human aspects of His nature. This expectation is seemingly
confirmed by the words of Shoghi Effendi who describes
the odes He revealed, whilst wrapped in His devotions
during those days of utter seclusion, and… the prayers and
soliloquies which, in verse and prose, both in Arabic and
Persian, poured from His sorrow-laden soul. . . [as] initial
and impassioned outpourings of a Soul struggling to unbur-
den itself, in the solitude of a self-imposed exile (many of
them, alas lost to posterity). (GPB 120, 121, sec. 7, para.36)
His intimist verses, that is His verses that deal “chiefly with intimate
and private especially psychological experiences”,46 are many indeed:
Through the window of the soul I behold the cheek of the
Beloved [Az rawzan-i-ján bínam rukhsáriy-i-Jánán-rá]. (Báz
áv-u bi-dih, v. 2, Quoted in MA 4:186)
I have lost the way and Thou art a brilliant Flame [Man gum-
shudih ráh-am, Tú Shu‘liy-i-núrání]. (‘Ishq az Sidriy-i-A‘lá
ámad, v. 8, quoted in MA 4:179)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
I am drunk of Thee, ’cause of Thee I am on everyone’s lips
[Man khúd zi Tú am makhmúr, ham az Tú shudam mashhúr].
(Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 13, quoted in MA 4:193)
The poem Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár, especially verses 19 e 29, is a
confession, where Bahá’u’lláh lays bare His heart:
In my love for Thee I have received many an arrow of cru-
elty, || And I have fallen into the hands of the infidels. [Gar
chih zi ‘ishq-at basí tír-i-jafá khúrdam || Ham gashtih asír-i-
dast-i-kuffár]. (Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár, v. 19, quoted in
MA 4:182)
The Birds of Eternity have returned to their nest, || We have
remained downtrodden and abject here on earth [Aṭyár-i-
Baqá bi-áshyán bar-gashtand, || Má mándih dar ín turáb basí
dhalíl u khwár]. (Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár, v. 29, quoted
in MA 4:183)
The same thing is true for the poem But-i-má ámad, which from
verse 22 on describes a mystical vision of great beauty. Verse 32 is
especially intimist:
My mind did not find its way. || My thought stepped back
[Dhihn-am na-burdih ráh bi-já’í, || Fikrat-am az sayr basí
vámándih]. (Quoted in MA 4:191)
One gets the impression that Bahá’u’lláh really wanted to show His
hidden thoughts. This feature makes those poems especially precious
for all them who are eager to become more familiar with the figure of
Bahá’u’lláh and with the human aspect of a Personage Who is known
especially through Works that He wrote with the majesty and the
authority of the “divine teacher” (SAQ 11, sec. 3, para.13).

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
As to a didactic intent, many passages convey useful advice for who-
ever wants to tread the mystical path, that in Bahá’í terms is the
path of spirituality, that is pursuing the development of the spiritual
quality potentially present in each soul. Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, from
distich 4 to distich 9, is an invitation to detachment, in its various
forms, detachment from the things of the world, detachment from
the self, detachment from anything but Him. There are suggestions
for the mystic path in poem But-i-má ámad as well:
First, watch your language. || Then, curb and calm down your
fancy [Avval tu dahán bar-band zi guftár, || Ham zi khayál-at
shú sákin u ásúdih].
Set thy heart free from exteriority. || Be inwardly pure and
excellent [Ham tu bi-shú dil-rá zán-chih buvad ẓáhir, || Van-gáh
zi báṭin shú pák u guzídih]. (But-i-má ámad, v. 11–2, quoted in
MA 4:189)
An echo of these words sounds in the Kitáb-i-Íqán:
He must never seek to exalt himself above any one, must
wash away from the tablet of his heart every trace of pride
and vainglory, must cling unto patience and resignation,
observe silence, and refrain from idle talk. For the tongue
is a smouldering fire, and excess of speech a deadly poison.
Material fire consumeth the body, whereas the fire of the
tongue devoureth both heart and soul. The force of the
former lasteth but for a time, whilst the effects of the latter
endure a century. (KI 192)
We could finally suppose that Bahá’u’lláh, “the True Educator, and the
Spiritual Teacher” (ESW 143), indulged His poetical vein, conscious
that future poets and artists may have taken them as models from
which they may draw inspiration. His poems are not many, but they

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
present a great variety of highly inspiring metaphors. His language,
enriched by the best images of the ancient Persian mystical poetry,
is free from that cloyingness which Persian lyric poetry sometimes
conveys in its excessive uses of stereotypes. His images are not lifeless
rhetorical devices, but a living and transparent instrument, indispens-
able to express mystical meanings, which cannot be described with
the usual language of doctrinal prose. These images, rich in visual
suggestions as they are, will inflame the imagination of future artists,
not only of the pen, but also of the paintbrush and of the chisel.
The ‘dewdrops of the Realms Above [Rashḥ-i-‘Amá]’, the ‘Ocean of
purity [Baḥr-i-ṣafá]’ and the ‘billow of His Presence [mawj-i-liqá]’
of Rashḥ-i-‘Amá (v.1 and 1.4, quoted in Rafati, Áthár 59); ‘God’s
crimson flame that sets the world on fire [Nára’llah-i-ḥamrá’í kátash
zadí imkán-rá]’ of Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí (v. 4, quoted in MA 4:187);
‘the expanses of the Placeless beneath the shade of the Lord of power
[faḍá’í-lá-makán dar ẓill-i-Ṣáhib-i-Iqtidár]’ of Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá
(v. 14, quoted in MA 4:211); ‘the rose-garden of eternity [gulshan-i-
báqí]’ and the ‘breeze of forgiveness [Bád-i-ghaffárí]’, the mysterious
‘Lote of the nearness of God [Sidriy-i-Qurb-i-Ilah]’ and the ‘running
herd of His gazelles in the desert of Oneness [davad dar barr-i-Vaḥdat
galliy-i-áhúy-i-ú]’ of Bi-Jánán ján hamí dar-yáft (v. 9, 17 and 19, quoted
in MA 4:177–78); the ‘spark of… [His] face [shu‘lih zi rúy-at]’ that
falls on ‘the rose-bush of the spirit [gul-bun-i-ján]’ lighting its beauty
‘as a vermilion tulip [chún láliy-i-nu‘mání]’ of Sáqí, bi-dih ábí (v. 16,
quoted in MA 4:193); the sky that fills a ‘skirt with pearls [dámán-i-
gawhar]’ of Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár (v. 16, quoted in MA 4:186);
the ‘season of flowers and roses [Faṣl-i-gul-u gulzár]’, the Beloved that
moves ‘through alleys and bazaars [kúchih-u bázár]’, the ‘stores of all
lovers [bázár jumlih ‘áshiqán]’ turned ‘into spice shops [dakkiy-i-‘aṭṭár]’
of Ay bulbulán (1, 4 and 6, quoted in AA 4:200)—these are but a few
examples of images that can stimulate the imagination of an artist
and inspire him to express the feelings aroused in his heart through
the instruments of his art.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Love poems
The mystical experiences that Bahá’u’lláh had in the Síyáh-Chál of
Teheran in October 1852 kindled in Him an irresistible ‘fire of love
[nár-i-‘ishqí]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 4) that He sang in the poems
He wrote in Iraq. This love that Bahá’u’lláh had conceived in that
obscure prison was not a common love, it was that ‘essence of love’,
which He later on described in His Words of Wisdom:
The essence of love is for man to turn his heart to the Beloved
One, and sever himself from all else but Him, and desire
naught save that which is the desire of his Lord. (TB 155,
Aṣl-i-Kullu’l-Khayr)
We may find a doctrinal explanation of this ‘essence of love’ born
in the heart of Bahá’u’lláh in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ‘Commentary to the
Tradition of the Hidden Treasure [Sharḥ-i-Ḥadíth-i-Kuntu Kanzan
Makhfíyan]’.47 In that treatise `Abdu’l-Bahá mentions five stages of
love. The fifth stage as described by Him is not mentioned in the
Sufi classical works. He describes this stage as
that spiritual attraction and that ecstatic love of the lovers
of the Beauteous One for the beauty within their own self.
It is to be counted as a station and a stage of Affection from
the state of unification towards unification.
In this stage the traveller leaves the wilderness of annihila-
tion and perplexed wandering… sees the glimmering of the
effulgences of the Beauteous One shining from the dawn
of his own beauty… [and] sees his own beauty annihilated
in the Beauty of the True One and finds the Beauty of the
True One enduring in the beauty of his self. (‘Commentary’
18–19, provisional translation)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
`Abdu’l-Bahá makes clear that the fifth stage of love pertains to the
Manifestations of God. However, He explains,
the effulgences of this station shine forth from these Suns
onto the mirrors of the realities of the wayfarers and seekers.
Thus if the mirrors of the heart be freed from the dust of
the worlds of plurality and limitations then the effulgences
of this station will be imprinted upon it. And if the window
of the soul and the lamp of the heart become purified and
refined through the power of holy souls, the light of Divine
Bounty will be kindled within it. (‘Commentary’ 19–20,
provisional translation)
The possibility of catching a glimpse of this special love, ‘that ecstatic
love of the lovers of the Beauteous One for the beauty within their
own self’, makes these poems very precious, because they may be a
source of inspiration for any person who is striving to arise towards
His supernal Worlds through her daily actions of service.
The ‘beauty within… [His] own self’, that Bahá’u’lláh loved so
much is variously described in His poems. In Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá
it is the Cup-Bearer [Sáqí] Who offers the ‘Wine of Eternal Life
[Khamr-i-Báqí]’ (v. 1, quoted in MA 4:209). In ‘Ishq az Sidriy-A‘lá it
is Love itself [‘Ishq] that offers ‘the cup of affliction [jám-i-balá]’ (v. 1,
quoted in MA 4:179). In Bi-Jánán ján hamí dar-yáft it is the Beloved
[Jánán] Who draws to Himself the lover through the effluvia of His
perfume (v. 1, quoted in MA 4:176). In Sáqí, bi-dih ábí it is again
the Cup-Bearer [Sáqí], Who offers a Wine that is of water and of
fire (v. 1–2, quoted in MA 4:192). In Mast-and bulbulán it is once
more the Beloved [Jánán], Who sends his lover into rapture with the
song of His Yá Hú (v. 1–2, quoted in MA 4:194). In Saḥar ámad bi
bistar-am it is the Friend [Yár], Who goes at the bedside of the Lover,
thin and pale because of the love sickness that consumes him, and
comforts him with His sweet words (v. 1, quoted in MA 4:181). In

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
But-i-má ámad it is the Idol or Charmer [But], so handsome, Who
comes and gives His wise advice (v. 1f, quoted in MA 4:188f). In Ay
bulbulán it is ‘He Who was invisible [Ghayb]’, come to bring a new
springtime (v. 1, quoted in AA 4:200).
Verse after verse Bahá’u’lláh strings the pearls of His images, creating
oneiric atmospheres resounding of angelical voices, like ‘the warbling
of Ṭihrán [ghunniy-i-Ṭá]’ (Rashḥ-i-‘amá, v. 10, quoted in Rafati, Áthár
59); drawing dreamy landscapes like ‘the garden’s ecstasy [ḥálat-i-
bustán]’ and ‘the rapture of creation [jadhbiy-i-hastan]’ (Rashḥ-i-‘amá,
v. 18, quoted in Rafati, Áthár 59). These sceneries are rich in colours,
as ‘the eye of twilight… turned pomegranate [chashm-i-shafaq gulnár]’
(Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár, v. 9, quoted in MA 4:181), and soaked
with perfumes, like the ‘stores of all lovers… turned into spice shops
[shikkar-i-la‘l-ash, ‘iyán chún dakkiy-i-‘aṭṭár shud]’ (Ay bulbulán, v. 6,
quoted in AA 4:200). They offer a glimpse of a nature translucent
with infinite, like the ‘running herd of His gazelles in the desert of
Oneness [davad dar barr-i-Vaḥdat galliy-i-áhúy-i-ú]’ (Bi-Jánán ján hamí
dar-yáft, v. 19, quoted in MA 4:178) or the sky that ‘has filled its skirt
with pearls, || To lay it down at the feet [dámán-i-gawhar zán girift, ||
Tá kunad bar maqdam-i-‘izzat nithár]’ (Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár,
v. 16 MA 4:182) of the Beloved. At the same time His verses give
important lessons of life:
If thou art not annihilated to the qualities of existence, O man
of the path, || How wilt thou sip the wine of eternal life from
that sweet Idol’s ruby lips [Tá na-gardí fání az vaṣf-i-vujúd, ay
mard-i-ráh, || Kí chashí khamr-i-Baqá az la‘l-i-núshín-i-Nigár]?
(Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 5, quoted in MA 4:210)
or
Purify thyself in the crucible of oneness || And I will give
thee two or three glasses of this wine [Chún kih shudí kháli

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
az bútiy-i-vaḥdat, || Án-gah du sih paymánih daham-at zín
bádih]. (But-i-má ámad, v. 13, quoted in MA 4:189)
Bahá’u’lláh draws from the entire repertoire of the ancient Persian
poetry, mixing the Anacreontic, love, spring and mystical motifs
of the ghazal and the didactic themes of the qaṣídih. The result is a
phantasmagoria of images, colors, sounds, and scents that hushes the
mind and touches the heart. Therefore these poems, even if read in
a paraphrase and not in an adequate translation, seem an excellent
instrument to create that attitude of meditation and prayer which the
Bahá’í Writings highly recommend, because, in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s words
Remembrance of God is like the rain and dew which bestow
freshness and grace on flowers and hyacinths, revive them
and cause them to acquire fragrance, redolence and renewed
charm. ‘And thou hast seen the earth dried up and barren:
but when We send down the rain upon it, it stirreth and
swelleth, and groweth every kind of luxuriant herb’. Strive
thou, then, to praise and glorify God by night and by day,
that thou mayest attain infinite freshness and beauty.
(Quoted in CC 2:232, sec. 1745)
Love in Persian mystical poetry and in these poems
by Bahá’u’lláh
‘That ecstatic love of the lovers of the Beauteous One for the beauty
within their own self’ (`Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Commentary’ 18–19, provi-
sional translation), that is Bahá’u’lláh’s love for the Most Great Spirit,
is described in these poems according to the stylistics of Persian
mystic poetry. However, there are great conceptual differences. In the
Works He wrote in the Iraqi period, Bahá’u’lláh adopted the ciphers
of Sufism and, at first sight, He seems to share its concepts. In reality,

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
He immediately opened the door to many changes. He already did
it in these early poetical compositions. He did it more completely in
His two Epistles, the Seven Valleys [Haft Vádí] and the Four Valleys
[Chihar Vádí] that He wrote sometime after His return to Baghdad
from Kurdistan in 1856. He did it in the Hidden Words that He
composed in 1858, and in the Kitáb-i-Íqán “revealed within the space
of two days and two nights, in the closing years of that period (1278
A.H.–1862 A.D.)” (GPB 138, sec. 8, para.25). We will thus briefly
illustrate the concepts of love of God, as well as of the Beloved and the
lover, in the Sufi literature and in Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings, and we will
try to highlight their similitude and differences.
The concept of love
The concept of love for God has been introduced into the Islamic
world as early as the second century of the Hegira by the Iraqi Sufi
poet Rábi‘a al-‘Adawiyya (ca.714–801). At the beginning this concept
of the love of God was opposed in the Muslim world, because people
thought it to imply an excessive intimacy between human beings,
mean creatures, and their Creator, Absolute and Unknowable Essence.
However the resemblance between mystical love and human love is
such that, finally, this concept took off and many poets sang this feel-
ing. The descriptions of a number of these poets became in the course
of time so realistic that, as Schimmel puts it, “one of the questions
that has been discussed frequently in connection with Persian lyrical
poetry is whether this literature should be interpreted as mystical or
as erotic” (Mystical Dimensions 288). According to Bausani these two
positions can be both acceptable depending on the poet (see Religion
in Iran 273).
These disquisitions do not apply to the poems by Bahá’u’lláh. It
seems very clear today that the Beloved of those poems is the Most
Great Spirit. It seems difficult today not to consider Rashḥ-i-‘Amá
as a joyous announcement of the encounter with the Spirit in an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
extraordinary ‘divine rapture [jadhbiy-i-lahútí]’ (v. 7, quoted in Rafati,
Áthár 59), that draws the Poet to proclaim:
The Era of ‘I am He’ shone forth from Our Countenance. ||
The Cycle of ‘He is He’ rolls out from the effusion of Bahá
[Bá] [Dawr-i-‘Aná Hú’ az Chihriy-i-Má kardih burúz, ||
Kawr-i-‘Huva Hú’ az ṭafḥiy-i-Bá mí-rízad]. (v. 8, quoted in
Rafati, Áthár 59)
The same is true in the case of the poem Mast-and bulbulán (see MA
4:194–6), with its significant radíf, yá Húy-i-ú. The description of the
Beloved in verses 6–19 of the poem Sáqí, bi-dih abí also suggests that
the Beloved is a sublime Entity (see MA 4:192–3). Other verses that
also seem to announce the descent of the Most Great Spirit are:
Thou art Jesus’ breath. Thou art Moses’ bush. || Thou art
God’s crimson flame that sets the world on fire [Ham nafkhiy-
i-‘Ísá’í, ham sidriy-i-Músá’í. || Nára’llah-i-ḥamrá’í kátash zadí
imkán-rá]. (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 4, quoted in MA 4:187)
Marvel not that the lover fell into His snare, || The necks
of the Monarchs of the spirit are caught in His curly locks
[Ín ‘ajab níst kih ‘áshiq bih kamand-ash uftádih. || Gardan-i-
Sháhán-i-ján andar kham-i-gísúy-i-ú].
Out of love for His cheek Moses hastened to the Sinai of the
inner meaning, || The Jesus of the Spirit was risen by His
cheering breath [Músí az ‘ishq-i-Rukh-ash dar Ṭúr-i-ma‘ní mí-
shitáft, || ‘Ísíy-i-ján zindih ámad az dam-i-dil-júy-i-ú]. (Bi-Jánán
ján hamí dar-yáft, v. 6–7, quoted in MA 4:177)
The image of the Beloved
In Sufi poems the lover yearns to go closer to the Beloved. But
the Beloved is the Absolute and thus He is described as aloof,

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
unapproachable, indifferent to the lover’s proffer of love. Therefore
the lover laments His cruelty that makes him suffer. Ḥáfiẓ for exam-
ple asks the Beloved:
O my soul! From stone-heartedness, why shatterest thou ||
The feeble heart which, through feebleness, is [fragile] like
crystal. (Dīvān 233, no.111, v. 6; Persian: Díván, ‘Ghazalyát’,
no. 97, v. 6)
The lover also laments the Beloved’s changeableness. Rúmí writes
in this vein:
One moment you brand me, the next you draw me into the
garden [bágh]. (Mystical Poems 2:16, no. 221, v. 8; Díván,
‘Ghazalyát’, no. 1786, v.8)
This is náz, the coquetry “of the Beloved who pretends to surrender,
but never yields, who responds with his whims, his unfaithfulness,
his arrogance, and his cruelty to the mercy invoked by his lovers “
(Saccone, ‘Introduzione’ 41).
Bahá’u’lláh also adopts the language of the Beloved’s remoteness
and cruelty. The Beloved is erratic and plays with the lover, whom
He sometimes binds to Himself, sometimes ignores. The Beloved
tortures the lover [‘áshiq]: the snake of His tresses sucks the blood
of his heart and soul (see Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 10, quoted in MA
4:187). With His ‘blood-shedding eyebrow [abrúy-i-khún-ríz]’ (Báz
áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 9, quoted in MA 4:187) He kills the lover and
asks him to throw his head at His feet:
If thine aim be to cherish thy life, approach not our court;
|| But if sacrifice be thy heart’s desire, come and let others
come with thee [Gar khayál-i-ján hamí hast-at bi-dil, ínjá

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
ma-yá, || Gar nithár ján va dil dárí, bí-á va ham bí-ár]. (Sáqi
az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 7–8, quoted in MA 4:210)
In the poems written by Bahá’u’lláh, however, the Beloved seems
more indulgent. The pains He causes to His lover have mystical,
rather than earthly, features. His cruelty is but a poetical device. The
Beloved Who wants the sacrifice of the lover in reality wants him to
renounce the inferior qualities of his material nature, those qualities
which in the Bahá’í Writings are described as ‘the insistent self [nafs-
i-ammarih], the evil promptings of the human heart’ (SWAB 256,
sec. 206, Muntakhabátí 247). It is that which Madame Jeanne Marie
Bouvier de La Motte Guyon (1648–1717) called ‘mystical death’. In
her words:
Death has various names, according to our different manner
of expression or conception. It is called a departure, that is,
a separation from Self in order that we may pass into God;
a loss, total and entire, of the Will of the creature, which
causes the Soul to be wanting to itself, that it may exist only
in God. (‘Concise View’, para.43)
Mystical death is the price that should be paid to come closer to the
Beloved. The lover’s pains are therefore the unavoidable consequence
of the intoxication of love, that draws the lover to accept any agony, so
that he may come closer to his Beloved. It is the pain of one’s struggle
against the emotions of the natal self, in order to master them and
bend them towards the direction recommended by the Beloved, so
that one may fulfill in one’s life ‘His trust, and in the realm of spirit
obtain the gem of Divine virtue’ (AHW).
The image of the lover
In Sufi poems the lover, in his unremitting longing for the Beloved,
unapproachable and cruel as He is, is unavoidably overpowered by
feelings of remoteness and pain. The Algerian anthropologist and

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
psychoanalyst Malek Chebel, an archaeologist of the world of the
Arabian and Islamic imagination, writes that for those poets love
is experienced as a consuming passion, as remoteness and pain.
These three elements pervade the mythology of the chaste
love of Platonists [al-Ḥubb al-‘Udhrí], a bitter love, conducive
to anguish, nourished by waiting, gnawed by torments of the
soul and tortures of the body. (Chebel 204–5)
Ḥáfiẓ devoted an entire ghazal to the leitmotiv of separation:
The reed’s tongue hath no desire for the explanation of
separation [faráq] || If not, to thee, I give the explanation
of the tale of separation.
Alas! Life’s span, in hope of union || Hath reached to an
end; and to an end, hath not come the time of separation
(Dīvān 603, no. 351, vv.1–2; Persian: Díván, ‘Ghazalyát’, no.
297, vv. 1–2).
As to pain, Ḥáfiẓ wrote in one of his ghazals:
For our pain [dard], is no remedy [darmán], Justice! || For
our separation [ḥijr] is no end, Justice!
Religion and the heart, they ravish; and make design
upon our life: || Justice! against the tyranny of lovely ones
[khúbán], Justice!
As the price of a kiss, the demand of a life, || These heart-
ravishers [dil-sitánán] make, Justice!
These of Kafir-heart drink our blood: || O Muslims! what
remedy? Justice!...

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Day and night, self-less, like Hafiz || Weeping and consuming
(with grief), I have gone, Justice! (Dīvān 231, no.110, v. 1–4, 7;
Persian: Díván, ‘Ghazalyát’, no. 96, v.1–4, 7)
The words more frequently used to describe the pains of the lover’s
remoteness [hijrán] from the Beloved are ghamm and dard. As to
ghamm, according to Carlo Saccone, an expert in and a translator
of Persian poetry, this word usually denotes “the pain because of
a separation or detachment from the beloved, a classical figure of
the condition of the mystic” (‘Note’ 219n14). As to dard, the same
Saccone writes:
Persian language makes an interesting distinctions of words,
whereby the more usual term—‘‘eshq’, from an Arabic root—
is paralleled by another, strictly Iranian, word, ‘dard’, which
means love seen in the perspective of its ‘pain’ (which is the
etymological meaning of ‘dard’), more properly ‘pain because
of an absence’ or because of remoteness from the beloved.
This is the reason why ‘Attâr said that angels have an experi-
ence of ‘‘eshq’ (the love typical of one who attains the union
with his beloved), but only man knows ‘dard’ (and ahl-e dard,
‘people of pain’ for love, or sorrowful, usually denotes the
mystic lovers). (‘La “via degli amanti”’ 34)
These qualities of the lover are mentioned also in Bahá’u’lláh’s poems.
The lover wants to be united [vaṣl] with his Beloved and therefore
yearns after annihilation [faná], the one condition that, together
with the inevitable pain [dard] it implies, enables the lover to be
united with His Beloved and to enjoy the vision of His quickening
[jánbakhsh] splendor [jilvih]. The lover yearns after pain and death,
because for him existence means remoteness from his Beloved. ‘Turn
my ease into pain [dard-am dih az ásáyish]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 3,
quoted in MA 4:187), he invokes. He also says:

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
In Thy pathway I have offered up this world and the world to
come. || Come back, that I may lay down my heart and soul
for Thee [Dunyá-u ‘uqbá-rá jumlih bi-rah-at dádam || Báz á
bi-rah-at rízam ham ján-u raván-rá]. (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v.
6, quoted in MA 4:187)
He asks the Beloved: ‘Consume this vanishing temple and go away in
laughter [Ín haykal-i-fání-rá bar-súz-u bu-rú khandán]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih
jámí, v. 2, quoted ibid.). And moreover:
Thou didst come with a sword in Thy hand, O Love, || Here
is my head, here is my heart, strike, strike hard this lifeless
lover [Shamshír bi-kaff ámadí, ay ‘Ishq, ínak sar-u ínak dil ||
Zakhmí zan, u muḥkam zan ín ‘áshiq-i-bí-ján-rá].
With Thy blood-shedding eyebrow shed the blood of this
heart-bereft… [Bá abrúy-i-khún-ríz-at khún-i-man-i-bí-dil
ríz…] (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 8–9, quoted in MA 4:187)
The lover is a derelict, because he is nothing and the Beloved is all.
Therefore he invokes:
Deliver me from perpetuity. Release me from eternity. ||
Shelter this poor headless one ’neath the shadow of evanes-
cence [Az abad-am bi-rahán, vaz qidam-am bi-jahán || Dar
ẓill-i-faná dih já ín bí-sar-u sámán-rá]. (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v.
5, quoted in MA 4:187)
The lover is eager, because he is looking forward to being united with
the Beloved. He invites the Beloved to lift up ‘the veil from… [His]
cheek [burqa‘… az ‘idhár]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 1, quoted in MA
4:209). He asks Him ‘ a drop of the mystic flame [ábí zán shu‘liy-i-
rúḥání]’ (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 1, quoted in MA 4:192). He wishes ‘to
become informed of the mysteries of love [kih gardí váqif az asrár-i-‘ishq]’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
(Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 9, quoted in MA 4:219). He is a ‘drunkard
of the Lord [makhmúr-i-rabbání]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 3).
Beyond the pain of the lover
Beside all these feelings that repeat the classical models of Persian
mystic poetry, in the poems of Bahá’u’lláh there is a strong presence
of the joy for the splendor or unveiling [jilvih] of the Beloved, perhaps
a reference to what He perceived during His mystical experiences
in the Síyáh-Chál, which He now wants to share with His readers.
The description of this reunion suggests to the mystic seekers the
certain possibility of definitively closing the ‘the scroll of remoteness
[daftar-i-hijrán]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 3, quoted in MA 4:186) from
the Beloved.
The concept of reunion is clearly explained in a Tablet, known
as Lawḥ-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq, that is Tablet of the lover and the
Beloved, that could have been written in Edirne in ca.1866–1867
(see Taherzadeh 2:241–5):
Release yourselves, O nightingales of God, from the thorns
and brambles of wretchedness and misery, and wing your
flight to the rose-garden of unfading splendor. O My friends
that dwell upon the dust! Haste forth unto your celestial
habitation. Announce unto yourselves the joyful tidings: ‘He
Who is the Best-Beloved is come! He hath crowned Himself
with the glory of God’s Revelation, and hath unlocked to
the face of men the doors of His ancient Paradise.’ Let all
eyes rejoice, and let every ear be gladdened, for now is the
time to gaze on His beauty, now is the fit time to hearken to
His voice. Proclaim unto every longing lover: ‘Behold, your
Well-Beloved hath come among men!’ and to the messengers
of the Monarch of love impart the tidings: ‘Lo, the Adored
One hath appeared arrayed in the fullness of His glory!’ O
lovers of His beauty! Turn the anguish of your separation

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
from Him into the joy of an everlasting reunion, and let the
sweetness of His presence dissolve the bitterness of your
remoteness from His court.
Behold how the manifold grace of God, which is being
showered from the clouds of Divine glory, hath, in this day,
encompassed the world. For whereas in days past every lover
besought and searched after his Beloved, it is the Beloved
Himself Who now is calling His lovers and is inviting them
to attain His presence. (GWB 319–20, sec. CLI, paras1–2,
Lawḥ-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq)
In the light of this explanation the feeling of remoteness is no more
a desperate feeling, but a conscious longing of a possible fulfillment.
This changed atmosphere, as a result of the lover’s approach to the
Beloved, finds an explanation in a number of aspects of the new mys-
tical vision brought by Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’u’lláh confirms the concept
of Islamic orthodoxy whereby God is absolutely unknowable and thus
whosoever tries to approach His Essence exerts useless endeavors. He
writes:
No tie of direct intercourse can possibly bind Him to His
creatures. He standeth exalted beyond and above all sepa-
ration and union, all proximity and remoteness. No sign
can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by
a word of His command all that are in heaven and on earth
have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal
Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the
realm of being, the world of the visible. (KI 97, para.105)
Unlike certain Sufis, who thought the direct relation with the
Divinity accessible to those few chosen ones who attained the most
advanced stages of mystical quest, Bahá’u’lláh teaches that this direct

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
relation is barred to everyone. The lover can however enter into a rela-
tionship with Them Whom God sends to the world as His Vicars,
sanctified Mirrors… Day-springs of ancient glory… Expo-
nents on earth of Him Who is the central Orb of the universe,
its Essence and ultimate Purpose (KI 99–100, para.106)
They are the Prophet as Lawgivers [shári’], the revealers of Scriptures
[kitáb], as for example Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, and
now He Himself. He writes that
These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the recipients
and revealers of all the unchangeable attributes and names
of God. They are the mirrors that truly and faithfully reflect
the light of God. Whatsoever is applicable to them is in
reality applicable to God, Himself, Who is both the Visible
and the Invisible… By attaining, therefore, to the presence
of these holy Luminaries, the ‘Presence of God [laqá’u’lláh]’
Himself is attained. (KI 141 para.152, KMI 110)
The reunion with the Beloved is realized on earth in the meeting with
the Prophet, personally for a few human beings who live in His days
and who have the capacity of recognizing the Beauty of the Beloved
in Him, or through His Writings for all the others: ‘Through the
window of the soul [rawzan-i-ján]’ the lover beholds ‘the cheek of the
Beloved [rukhsáriy-i-Jánán]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 2, quoted in MA
4:186). This is the real meeting with the Beloved, that brings infinite
joy, because He breathes , with His ‘soul-stirring lips… a breath of
spirit into… [one’s] breast [bá lab-i-ján-bakhsh-at rúḥí bi-dam arkán-
rá]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 9, quoted in MA 4:187). The meeting
with God is now possible through Him, Bahá’u’lláh, ‘the Beloved of
the hearts which long for Thee [ḥabíba qulúbi’l-mushtaqín]’ (PM 209,
sec. 124, para.3, Munáját 142), He Himself the bearer of sublime
attributes and thus the supreme Object of love. He is ‘Jesus’ breath…

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Moses’ bush… God’s crimson flame that sets the world on fire
[nafkhiy-i-‘Ísá’í… sidriy-i-Músá’í… Nára’llah-i-ḥamrá’í kátash zadí
imkán-rá]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 4, quoted in MA 4:187):
A glimmer of His image fell on the page of the spirit, || A
hundred Hellenic wisdoms were thereby confounded [Yik
jilvih zi ‘aks-ash bar ṣafḥiy-i-ján uftád, || Válih shud az án
jilvih ṣad ḥikmat-i-yúnání].
A spark of that flame touched the Sinaitic tree, || A hundred
Imranite Moses fell into a swoon [Yik jadhvih az án shu‘lih bar
Sidriy-i-Síná zad, || Madhúsh az án jadhvih ṣad Músíy-i-‘Imrání].
A flame burst out from that fire and Love pitched || Its tent
in the water and clay of man and in his heart [Yik shu‘lih az
án átash shud, ‘ishq bi-zad khar-gáh || Dar áb u gil-i-ádam ham
dar dil-i-insání]. (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 3–5, quoted in MA 4:192)
The lover can only yield to Him, against any logic—‘Love becomes
a slave and the Intellect a porter [ham ‘Ishq shudih bandih, ham ‘Aql
kunad darbání]’ (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 19, quoted in MA 4:194)—in a
total amorous commitment which has no other aim than finding a
shelter ‘’neath the shadow of evanescence [dar ẓill-i-faná]’ (Báz áv-u
bi-dih jámí, v. 5, quoted in MA 4:187).
These poems make clear that for the lover to attain the reunion with
his Beloved he must follow Him. The mystical reunion with the
Beloved is attained through forgetting oneself and putting one’s life
at His service, to fulfill His vision of the future world civilization.
This is the joy of reunion, the joy of pursuing the ideal in action. This
concept is explained by `Abdu’l-Bahá as follows:
Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is
bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the
living God may then shine forth. The martyr’s field is the
place of detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity
may be upraised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of
self, and bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours;
and once ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will
find, gathered within your shadow, all created things. This is
boundless grace; this is the highest sovereignty; this is the
life that dieth not. All else save this is at the last but manifest
perdition and great loss. (SWAB 76–7, sec. 36)
It is Faust‘s ‘Verweile doch! du bist so schön! Beautiful moment, do not
pass away’ (Faust, line 1699).
Beside their doctrinal meaning, which this is not the place to discuss,
Bahá’u’lláh’s words justify the joyous atmosphere prevailing on the
feelings of anguish and pain. The inebriation, the folly, the longing for
annihilation of the lover do not evoke only the pain of a fire that burns
away ‘all things [jumliy-i-hastí]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 4, quoted in
MA 4:210), consumes ‘the world [jahán]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 15,
quoted in MA 4:211), ‘sets the world on fire [kátash zadí imkán-rá]’
(Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 4, quoted in MA 4:187) and destroys ‘this van-
ishing temple [haykal-i-fání]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 2, quoted in MA
4:186). That same fire also is light that enlightens; it is ‘water of the
spirit [kawthar-i-rúḥání]’ (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 2, quoted in MA 4:192)
that nourishes and refreshes; it is a glimmer that falls ‘on the page of
the spirit [ṣafḥiy-i-ján]’ and confounds ‘a hundred Hellenic wisdoms
[ṣad ḥikmat-i-yúnání]’ (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 3, quoted in MA 4:192), a
spark whereby ‘a hundred Imranite Moses [ṣad Músíy-i-‘Imrání]’ fall
into a swoon (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 4, quoted in MA 4:192), that kindles
a ‘flame [Yik shu‘lih]’ of love that pitches ‘its tent in the water and clay
of man and in his heart [Dar áb u gil-i-ádam ham dar dil-i-insání]’ (Sáqí,
bi-dih ábí, v. 5, quoted in MA 4:192), that falls ‘upon the rose-bush
of the spirit [gul-bun-i-ján]’ and lights ‘its beauty as a vermilion tulip

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
[chún láliy-i-nu‘mání] (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 16, quoted in MA 4:193); it
is the theophanic ‘fire on Mount Paran [shu‘liy-i-Fárání]’ (Sáqí, bi-dih
ábí, v. 11, quoted in MA 4:193). The moan of the lover is a ‘melody
[naghmih]’ that can bring the world to life (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 15,
quoted in MA 4:211). The ‘wine of the spirit [sharáb-i-ma‘naví]’ (Sáqí
az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 2, quoted in MA 4:209) first intoxicates him and
then shakes off ‘his languor [khumár]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 3,
quoted in MA 4:210). That Wine is ‘the wine of joy [khamr-i-farah]’
(Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 12, quoted in MA 4:210) that is offered in
‘the vessel of immortal life [sághar-i-báqí]’ (Báz áv-u bi-dih jámí, v. 1,
quoted in MA 4:186) and washes the ‘soul from the whisperings of the
flesh [vasvasiy-i-nafsání]’ (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, v. 1, quoted in MA 4:192).
The lover is annihilated ‘to the qualities of existence [vaṣf-i-vujúd]’
(Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 5, quoted in MA 4:210), but immediately
after he quaffs ‘the wine of eternal life from that sweet Idol’s ruby
lips [khamr-i-Baqá az la‘l-i-núshín-i-Nigár]’ (Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v.
5, quoted in MA 4:210). He tramples upon ‘the world [mulk]’ and
enters ‘beneath the shade of Poverty [ẓill-i-faqr]’, but he soon beholds
‘the immortal World on every side [Mulk-i-báqí-rá kunún az har kinár]’
(Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, v. 6, quoted in MA 4:210).
The Beloved has come. The traditional relation between the Beloved
and His lovers is overturned. Whoever has recognized His Blessed
Beauty ‘steppeth into the sanctuary of the Friend, and shareth as an
intimate the pavilion of the Loved One’ (SV 17) and thus rejoices in
the bliss of reunion, in this Day when
. . . the people of Bahá have entered the blissful abode of the
Divine Presence, and quaffed the wine of reunion, from the
chalice of the beauty of their Lord, the All-Possessing, the
Most High. (GWB 32, sec. XIV, para.13, Lawḥ-i-Riḍván)
As `Abdu’l-Bahá said: “The most great, peerless gift of God to the
world of humanity is happiness born of love—they are the twin sisters

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
of the superman; one is the complement of the other” (Quoted in ‘A
Fortune’ 103).
From these poems, and from the entire Work by Bahá’u’lláh, a con-
cept of mysticism emerges that is very far from the philosophizing and
aesthetic, always theoretical, abstractions of certain ancient types of
mysticism. Bausani writes that the Bahá’í mysticism is “a preparation
to a renewed active life on the earth, whose realities once again acquire
a new value, as if they were translucent with the absolute” (Saggi 152).
The meeting with the Beloved is accessible to everyone, here on earth.
There is but one prerequisite, an annihilation that is renouncing to the
seductions of the self and of the world and entering the path of service
to humankind, to create a new civilization, the only path that leads to
the reunion with the Beloved and thus the only source of genuine joy.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Bibliography
`Abdu’l-Bahá.
‘Commentary on the Islamic Tradition “I Was a Hidden Treasure…” by `Abdu’l-
Bahá: Translated by Moojan Momen’, in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, vol.3, no.4
(December 1985), pp.4–35. See http://www.northill.demon.co.uk/relstud/
(accessed 31 December 2010).

‘A Fortune that Bestows Eternal Happiness. Knowledge, Purity of Thought
and Love. Talks given by `Abdu’l-Bahá on Mount Carmel to a group of college
students during their summer vacation’, Star of the West, vol.13, no.5 (August
1922), pp.102–4.

Memorials of the Faithful. Translated by Marzieh Gail. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1971.

Muntakhabátí az Makátíb-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-`Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1979.

The Secret of Divine Civilization. Translated by Marzieh Gail. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.

Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Translated by Marzieh Gail.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.

Some Answered Questions. Translated by Laura Clifford-Barney. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá’ fí Tarjumat Ḥayát Qudamá’ al-Aḥibbá’. Haifa: Maṭba‘ah
al-‘Abbásíyah, 1343 ah (1924).
‘Andalíb. A Bahá’í Persian magazine published in Canada.
Arts Dialogue. A Publication of the Bahá’í Association for the Arts.
Bahá’í Prayers. A Selection of Prayers revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and `Abdu’l-
Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
Bahá’í Scriptures. Selections from the Utterances of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá.
Edited By Horace Holley. Approved by Bahá’í Committee on Publications,
1923. Second Edition. New York: Brentano’s Publishers, 1923.
Bahá’í Studies Bulletin. Newcastle upon Tyne: Stephen N. Lambden, 1982–1992.
Bahá’í Studies Review. Association for Bahá’í Studies for English-speaking Europe.
London, 1991.
The Bahá’í World. An International Record. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
Bahá’u’lláh.
Ad‘íyyih-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-Maḥbúb. Prayers of Bahá’u’lláh. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.

Aṣl-i-Kullu’l-Khayr (Words of Wisdom), in Tablets, pp.153–7.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen

Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 129 B.E.(1972–
73); vol.4. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 133 B.E.(1976–77).

Ay bulbulán, in Mázandarání, Asráru’l-Áthár, vol.4, pp.200–1.

Az-Bágh-i-Ilahí, Majmú’iy-i-Áthár, vol.36, pp.457–60.

Báz áv-u bi-dih, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4, pp.186–87.

Bi-Jánán ján hamí dar-yáft, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4,
pp.176–78.

But-i-má ámad, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4, pp.188–92.

Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. 2nd edn. Wil-
mette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1953.

Gems of Divine Mysteries: Javáhiru’l-Asrár. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Rev.
edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.

The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1975.

‘Ishq az Sidriy-i-A‘lá ámad, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4,
pp.179–80.

Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992. Arabic
edition: Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1995.

Kitáb-Íqán: The Book of Certitude. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. 2nd edn.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.

Kitáb-i-Mustaṭáb-i-Íqán. Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt, 1934.
Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.

Lawḥ-i Anta’l-Káfí, literally, Tablet of ‘Thou the Sufficing’, known as the Long
Healing Prayer, in Risáliy-i-Taṣbíḥ va Tahlíl, pp.207–15; Ad‘íyyih-i-Ḥaḍrat-
i-Maḥbúb pp.183–93; Nafahat-i Faḍl, vol.2, pp.17–22; Lawḥ-i-mubárak-i
Anta’l-Káfí; ‘Long Healing Prayer’, in Bahá’í Prayers, pp.91–8.

Lawḥ-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq, in Gleanings, pp.319–22, sec. CLI.

Lawḥ-i-Halih, Halih, Halih, Yá Bishárát, in http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/
arabic/baharepr/halih/halih.gif.

Lawḥ-i-Maqṣúd (Tablet of Maqṣúd), in Tablets, pp.161–78.

Lawḥ-i-mubarak-i-Anta’l-Káfí, Anta’l-Sháfí, ma‘rúf bi Munáját-i-shafá: The
Healing Prayer. Langenheim: Bahá’í-Verlag, 137/1980–1.

Lawḥ-i-Ra’ís, in Summons, pp.161–73.

Lawḥ-i-Riḍván, in Gleanings, pp.27–35, sec. XIV

Lawḥ-i-Salmán (Tablet to Salmán), in Gleanings, pp.317–18, no.CXLVIII.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems

Majmú’iy-i-Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá (Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh). Teheran: Iran
National Bahá’í Archives (INBA). Private Printing, 1977. vols. 30, 35, 36.

Mast-and bulbulán, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4, pp.194–96.

Mathnavíy-i-Mubárak, in Áthár 3:160–192; INBA 30:*; excerpts in MA
4:139–41; etc.

Prayers and Meditations. Compiled and translated by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.

Rashḥ-i-‘Amá, in Rafati, ‘Áthár’ 59.

Saḥar ámad bi bistar-am yár, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4,
pp.181–84.

Sáqí az Ghayb-i-Baqá, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4, pp.209–11.

Sáqí, bi-dih ábí, in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol.4, pp.192–94.

The Song of the Holy Mariner’, Star of the West, vol.13, no.4 (17 May 1922),
pp.75–7.

The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Translated by Marzieh Gail in consul-
tation with Ali-Kuli Khan. Rev. edn. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1991.

The Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Bundoora, Victoria:
Bahá’í Publications Australia, 2002.

‘A Tablet of the Feast of Ridván, by Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Ali-Kuli Khan.
Translated by Marzieh Gail’, http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_rid-
van_khan (accessed 31 December 2010).

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Translated by Habib
Taherzadeh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Bausani, Alessandro.
Religion in Iran. Translated by J.M. Marchesi. New York: Bibliotheca Persica
Press, 2000.

Saggi sulla Fede Bahá’í. Rome: Casa Editrice Bahá’í, 1991.
Boyce, Mary. Textual Sources for the Study of Zoroastrianism (Textual Sources for
the Study of Religion). Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1990.
Boyd, James W. ‘Zoroastrianism: Avestan Scripture and Rite,’ in Holy Book in
Comparative Perspective, pp.109–25.
Chebel, Malek. Dictionnaire des symboles musulmans: Rites, mystique et civilisation.
Paris: Albin Michel, 1995.
Cole, Juan R..
‘Ay Bulbulán Ay Bulbulán (Poem)’, http://www.scribd.com/doc/17569405/
Ay-Bulbulan-Ay-Bulbulan-Poem (accessed 31 December 2010).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen

‘Houri of Wonder (Hur-i ‘Ujab)’, http://www.whoisbahaullah.com/Alison/won-
der.html and ‘Houri of Wonder’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/index2.
php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=15 (accessed 31 December 2010).

‘Nightingale of Separation’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/index.
php?option=com_content&task=view&id=28&Itemid=50 (accessed 31
December 2010).

‘Ode of the Dove (Qasídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih)’, http://bahai-library.org/provision-
als/ode.dove.html and ‘Ode of the Dove’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/
index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=37&Itemid=50 (accessed 31
December 2010).

‘O Nightingales by Bahá’u’lláh’, Arts Dialogue, no. 40 (June 1997), p.14.

‘Praised be my Lord, the Most High’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/
index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=38&Itemid=50 (accessed 31
December 2010).

‘Sprinkling of the Cloud Beyond Being’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/
index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16&Itemid=50 (accessed 31
December 2010).

‘Tablet of Vision by Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Juan Cole. Originally written as
“Lawh-i-Ru’yá”’, http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_ruya_cole (accessed
31 December 2010).
The Compilation of Compilations. Prepared by the Research Department of The
Universal House of Justice 1963–1990. 3 vols. Ingleside, NSW, Australia:
Bahá’í Publications Australia, 2000.
Fáḍil Mázandárání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh.
Asráru’l-Athar. 5 vols. Teheran: Mu’assisa Maṭbu‘át Amrí, 124/1968. Vol.4.
Teheran: Mu’assisa Maṭbu‘át Amrí, 129/1973.
Taríkh Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq (History of the Manifestation of Truth). Vol.4. Teheran: n.d.
(1944).
Filoramo, Giovanni (ed). Storia delle religioni. 1. Le religioni antiche. Roma-Bari:
Laterza, 1994.
Ghazâlî, Ahmad. Delle occasioni amorose (Savâneh ol-‘Oshshâq). A cura di Carlo
saccone. Roma: Carocci, 2007
Gnoli, Gherardo. ‘La religione zoroastriana’, Filoramo, Storia delle religioni. 1. Le
religioni antiche, pp.498–565.
Guyon, Madame Jeanne Marie Bouvier de La Motte. Concise View of the
Way to God; and of the State of Union with God. http://www.iinet.
com/~passtheword/DIALOGS-FROM-THE-PAST/waytogod.htm (accessed
31 December 2010).

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Ḥáfiẓ, Shams ad-Dín. z. Translated by H. Wilberforce Clarke.
Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997.

Díván*

Il libro del coppiere. A cura di Carlo Saccone. Milano: Luni, 1998.
The Holy Book in Comparative Perspective. Ed. Frederick M. Denny e Rodney L.
Taylor. Columbia, South Carolina: University of South Carolina Press, 1993.
Ishráq Khávarí, `Abdu’l-Ḥamid. Ganj-i-Sháyigán.
Teheran: Mu’assisa Maṭbu‘át Amrí, 123 BE (1967–68).

Má’iday-i-Ásmání. A compilation of Bahá’í Writings. 9 vols; vol.4. Teheran:
Mu’assisa Millí Maṭbu‘át Amrí, 129 be (1972).

ed. Risáliy-i-Ayyám-i-Tis‘ih. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.

ed. Risáliy-i-Taṣbíḥ va Tahlíl. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
Lambden, Stephen N.
‘“Rashḥ-i-‘Amá”, Sprinkling of the Cloud of Unknowing’, in Bahá’í
Studies Bulletin, vol.3, no.2 (September 1984). See http://bahai-library.
com/?file=bahaullah_rashh_ama_lambden (accessed 20 April 2006).

‘The Sinaitic Mysteries: Notes on Moses/Sinai Motifs in Bábí and Bahá’í
Scriptures’, in Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi, pp.65–183.

‘A Tablet of Baha’u’llah of the Late Baghdad Period: Lawh-i-Halih Halih
Halih, Ya Bisharat’, in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, vol.2, no.3 (December 1983),
pp.105–12.

‘Tablet of the Bell (Lawh-i-Náqús) of Bahá’u’lláh’, Lights of ‘Irfán, vol.4,
pp.111–21.

‘Lawh-i-Ru’yá (Tablet of Vision), by Stephen Lambden, Presented at the Irfan
Colloquia Session #22 (English) London, England, August 27–29, 1999’, http://
irfancolloquia.org/22/lambden_ruya (accessed 31 December 2010).

‘Lawh-i-Ru’yá (Tablet of Vision). Trans. Stephen Lambden’, http://bahai-
library.com/provisionals/lawh.ruya.lambden.html (accessed 15 February 2011).

‘Translation of the Rashḥ-i ‘Amā’ of Bahā’-Allāh. Translation Stephen Lambden
from the text cited by Vahid Rafati from a mss. of Muhammad Nabīl-i Zarandī
(d. 1892) printed in Lights of Irfan’, http://www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.
co.uk/BAHA’-ALLAH/rashh-i%20%60ama’/Rashh3.htm (accessed 31 Decem-
ber 2010).
Franklin D. Lewis
‘Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i-Mubárak: introduction and provisional verse transla-
tion’, Bahá’í Studies Review, vol.9 (1999–2000), pp.101–57.

‘Poetry as Revelation: Introduction to Bahá’u’lláh’s “Mathnavíy-i Mubárak”’, in
Bahá’í Studies Review, vol.9 (1999–2000), pp.101–25.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen

‘Rumi’s Masnavi, part 7: God’s grace’, guardian.co.uk, Monday 11 January 2010,
http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/belief/2010/jan/11/islam-rumi-
grace-poetry (accessed 31 December 2011).

‘A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh, Saqí az ghayb-i baqá
burqa‘ bar afkan az idhár’. An Introduction and Three Versions of Provisional
English Translations”, Lights of ‘Irfán, vol.2, pp.83–91.
Lights of ‘Irfán. Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars.
MacEoin, Denis.
‘Baha’u’lláh’s al-Qasida al-Warqa’iyya (Qasidiy-i-Varqa’iyyih): An English
Translation’, in Baha’i Studies Bulletin, vol.2, no.2 (September 1983), pp.7–21.

‘Denis MacEoin, al-Qasida al-Warqa’iyya (Qasidiy-i-Varqa’iyyih): Further
Comments’, in Baha’i Studies Bulletin, vol.2, no.3 (December 1983), pp.68–73.

Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism. Pembroke Persian Series Vol.2. British
Academic Press, 1994.
Mc Glinn, Senn. ‘The Halih Halih Halih in rhythmic verse’, http://bahai-library.
com/provisionals/hallelujah.html (accessed 31 December 2010).
Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam (Muḥammad-i-Zarandi). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the
Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated by Shoghi Effendi. New York:
Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1932.
Nafahat-i Faḍl (Breezes of Grace). Lessons on essential Bahá’í prayers and writings
together with audio tapes.Vol 2: Fire Tablet, Long Healing Prayer, Tablet of
Visitation. Dundas, Ontario: Persian Institute for Bahá’í Studies, n.d.
Neshati, Ramin. Neshati, ‘Tablet of the Mist of the Unknown by Bahá’u’lláh.
Translated by Ramin Neshati. Originally written as “Rashh-i-Amá”’, http://
bahai-library.com/?file=bahaullah_rashh_ama_neshati (accessed 31 December
2010).
‘Preface and Notes’, in Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp.xx–ix, 167–249.
Ráfatí, Vaḥíd.
‘Áthár-i-munzilih as Qalam-i-A‘lá dar Írán: Qaṣídiy-i-Rashḥ-i-‘Amá,’ Safíniy-i-
‘Irfán (Studies in Bahá’í Sacred Texts). Darmstadt: ‘Asr Jadí, 1999.

(ed.) Yádnámiy-i-Baydáy-i-Núrá. Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í_Verlag, 2011.
Rúmí, Jalálú’d-Dín.
Díván.*

The Mathnawí of Jalálu’Ddín Rúmí, edited from the oldest manuscripts
available: with critical notes, translation and commentary by Reynold A.
Nicholson…, vols. 2, 4, 6. Warminster, Wiltshire: Trustees of the E.J.W. Gibb
Memorial Series, 1926.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems

Mystical Poems of Rūmī 1: First Selection, Poems 1–200 translated from the
Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Chicago and London: University of Chicago
Press, 1968.

Mystical Poems of Rūmī 2: Second Selection, Poems 201–400 translated from
the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press, 1991.
Saccone, Carlo.
‘Prefazione, introduzione, nota alla traduzione, note, bibliografia orientativa e
appendice’, in Ḥāfīẓ, Il libro del coppiere, pp.7–66, 216–412.

‘La “via degli amanti”: l’erotologia di Ahmad Ghazâlî nel trattato mistico
Savâneh ol-‘Oshshâq, in Ghazâlî, Delle occasioni amorose, pp.9–87.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Mystical Dimensions of Islam. Chapel Hill: University of
North Carolina Press, 1975.
Shoghi Effendi.
God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing  Trust, 1957.

The Promised Day is Come. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1961.
Sours, Michael W. The Tablet of the Holy Mariner: An illustrated Guide to
Bahá’u’lláh’s Mystical Writing in the Sufi Tradition (Los Angeles: Kalimát
Press, 2002)
Star of the West. The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world, published from
1910 to 1935. Issues 1910 to 1924, RP 8 vols. Oxford: George Ronald, 1978.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford: George Ronald,
1974–1987.
Universal House of Justice, The. Messages from the Universal House of Justice
1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age. Ed. Geoffry W. Marks.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996.
Walbridge, John.
Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time. Oxford: George Ronald, 1996.

‘Baha’u’llah’s “Tablet of the Deathless Youth”’, http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/
trans/vol1/deathls2.htm (accessed 31 December 2010).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
NOTES
All translations from Persian were done with the precious assistance of Ms.
Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli, lecturer of Persian language at the University of
Bologna. These translations of Bahá’u’lláh’s poetry are temporary and informal.
They are not authorized translations. They are made only for presentation at
the `Irfán Colloquium. These translations should not be quoted, published or
distributed in any form or through any media.
It is normal practice in this journal to italicize quotations from the three
Central Figures of the Bahá’á Faith following the practice of Shoghi Effendi.
However, the editors decided to make an exception for this article to avoid
confusion that might result due to the heavy use of transliteration from Persian
and Arabic which is also in italics.
Quoted in Ráfatí, ‘Áthár-i-munzilih’ 59; Ishráq Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání
4:184–6 (from now on MA 4); Majmú’iy-i-Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A’lá 36: 460–1 (from
now on INBA 36).
See Lambden, ‘“Rashḥ-i-’Amá”, Sprinkling of the Cloud of Unknowing’,
Baha’i Studies Bulletin 3.2 (1984): 2–10. A revised translation of this poem by
Lambden himself may be found in the Internet. See Lambden, ‘Translation
of the Rashḥ-i ‘Amā’ of Bahā’-Allāh. Translation Stephen Lambden from the
text cited by Vahid Rafati from a mss. of Muhammad Nabīl-i Zarandī (d.
1892) printed in Lights of Irfan’, http://www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/
BAHA’-ALLAH/rashh-i%20%60ama’/Rashh3.htm (accessed 2 July 2011).
See Neshati, ‘Tablet of the Mist of the Unknown by Bahá’u’lláh. Translated
by Ramin Neshati. Originally written as “Rashh-i-Amá”’, http://bahai-library.
com/?file=bahaullah_rashh_ama_neshati (accessed 31 December 2010).
See Cole, ‘Sprinkling of the Cloud Beyond Being’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/
explore/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16&Itemid=50
(accessed 31 December 2010).
Published on Tarjuman-List, Friday, 3 June 2011, 20:51.
See Cole, ‘Ode of the Dove (Qasídiy-i-Varqá’íyyih)’, http://bahai-library.org/
provisionals/ode.dove.html (accessed 31 December 2010) and ‘Ode of the Dove’,
http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/index.php?option=com_content&task=vie
w&id=37&Itemid=50 (accessed 31 December 2010).
Quoted in Fáḍil-i Mazandarání, Asráru’l-Athar 4:200–1 (from now on AA 4);
Fáḍil-i Mazandarání, Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq 4:142 (only seven verses).
See Cole, ‘O Nightingales by Bahá’u’lláh’, Arts Dialogue, no. 40 (June 1997),
p.14; see also Cole, ‘Ay Bulbulan Ay Bulbulan (Poem)’, http://www.scribd.com/
doc/17569405/Ay-Bulbulan-Ay-Bulbulan-Poem (accessed 31 December 2010).

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Quoted in Áthár 3:160–192; INBA 30:*; excerpts in MA 4:139–41; etc. See
Lewis, ‘Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnaví’ 118–9.
See Lewis, ‘Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i-Mubárak: introduction and provisional
verse translation’, Bahá’í Studies Review 9 (1999–2000): 101–57.
To The Universal House of Justice, 12 January 1997, see http://bahai-library.
com/uhj/humorist.html (accessed 31 December 2010).
None of these poems has been translated authoritatively into English. All of the
translations cited in this paper are provisional.
This list comprises only Tablets that have been provisionally or authoritatively
(three cases), wholly or partially, translated into English.
Quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ganj-i-Shayigan 61–64.
See Cole, ‘Praised be my Lord, the Most High’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/
explore/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=38&Itemid=50
(accessed 31 December 2010).
Quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ayyám Tis’ih 92–99.
Walbridge, ‘Baha’u’llah’s “Tablet of the Deathless Youth”‘, http://www.h-net.
org/~bahai/trans/vol1/deathls2.htm (accessed 31 December 2010).
Quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ganj-i Sháyigán 61-4; Adí’iy-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-Maḥbúb 153–8.
See Cole, ‘Houri of Wonder (Hur-i ‘Ujab)’, http://www.whoisbahaullah.com/
Alison/wonder.html and ‘Houri of Wonder’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/
explore/index2.php?option=com_content&do_pdf=1&id=15 (accessed 31
December 2010).
Quoted in Áthár 4:335–41; MA 4:335–41.
‘The Song of the Holy Mariner’, Star of the West 13.4 (17 May 1922):75–7.
See The Tablet of the Holy Mariner: An illustrated Guide to Bahá’u’lláh’s Mystical
Writing in the Sufi Tradition. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2002.
Quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ganj-i-Sháyigán 42–5.
See Cole, ‘Nightingale of Separation’, http://whoisbahaullah.com/explore/
index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=28&Itemid=50 (accessed 31
December 2010).
Quoted in INBA 36: 457–60.
Quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ganj-i-Shayigan 33–35; Andalib 5.18:3–4; INBA
35:455–6; e-text at http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/arabic/baharepr/halih/halih.
gif (accessed 31 December 2010).
See Taríkh-i-Nabíl-i-Zarandí [Pt II ], quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ayyam-i-Tis’ih 332f.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
See Lambden, ‘A Tablet of Baha’u’llah of the Late Baghdad Period: Lawh-i-Halih
Halih Halih, Ya Bisharat’, Baha’i Studies Bulletin 2.3 (December 1983): 105–112.
A revised version of this translation now appears at http://www.bahai-library.
org/provisionals/hallelujah.html (accessed 31 December 2010).
See Mc Glinn, ‘The Halih Halih Halih in rhythmic verse’, http://bahai-library.
com/provisionals/hallelujah.html (accessed 31 December 2010).
Quoted in Ad’íyiy-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-Maḥbúb 141–53.
See ‘A Tablet of the Feast of Ridván, by Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Ali-Kuli
Khan. Translated by Marzieh Gail’, http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_
ridvan_khan (accessed 31 December 2010).
Quoted in Ishráq Khávarí, Ayyám-i-Tis’ih 100–6.
See Lambden, ‘Tablet of the Bell (Lawh-i-Náqús) of Bahá’u’lláh’, Lights of ‘Irfán
4:111–21.
Quoted in Ishráq-Khávarí, Ayyám-i-Tis’ih 16–20; Áthár1314 2:174–6.
See Lambden, ‘Lawh-i-Ru’yá (Tablet of Vision), by Stephen Lambden,
Presented at the Irfan Colloquia Session #22 (English) London, England,
August 27–29, 1999’, http://irfancolloquia.org/22/lambden_ruya (accessed 31
December 2010); see also Lambden, ‘Lawh-i-Ru’yá (Tablet of Vision). Trans.
Stephen Lambden’, http://bahai-library.com/provisionals/lawh.ruya.lambden.
html (accessed 15 February 2011).
See Cole, ‘Tablet of Vision by Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Juan Cole. Originally
written as “Lawh-i-Ru’yá”‘, http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_ruya_
cole (accessed 31 December 2010).
Quoted in Risáliy-i-Taṣbíḥ va Tahlíl 207–15; Ad’íyyih-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-Maḥbúb
183–93; Nafahat-i Faḍl 2:17–22; Lawḥ-i mubárak-i Anta’l-Káfí.
See The Universal House of Justice, Messages 1963–1986 455, sec. 258. See
Bahá’í Prayers 91–8.
See The Universal House of Justice, Messages 1963–1986 455, sec. 258. See Bahá’í
Prayers 214–20.
See http://www.bahai-library.com/bahaullah_shams_jamal_ilahi, accessed 22
July 2011.
Later quoted in another Tablet translated by Shoghi Effendi in GWB 184–92,
sec. XCIII.
Tr. Franklin Lewis, see Lewis, ‘Rumi’s Masnavi, part 7: God’s grace’, guardian.
co.uk, Monday 11 January 2010, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/
belief/2010/jan/11/islam-rumi-grace-poetry (accessed 31 December 2011).
Nicholson translates: ‘Since colourlessness (pure Unity) became the captive
of colour (manifestation in the phenomenal world), a Moses came into conflict
with a Moses’

Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems
Quoted in `Abdu’l-Bahá, Tadhkirat 54–5. This ghazal does not appear in the
collections of Rúmí’s ghazals recorded on the Internet.
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, p.1184, s.v. “intimist”.
The authorized translation of a short part of the Commentary is published in
‘Preface and Notes’ 177–78n23. A provisional translation of the complete work
has been made by Momen; see `Abdu’l-Bahá: ‘Commentary’.

Clouds and the Hiding God: Observations on Some
Terms in the Early Writing of Bahá’u’lláh
Moshe Sharon
Introduction and Synopsis
Two early Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, probably the earliest, Rashḥ-i-
‘Amá and Lawḥ Kull aṭ-Ṭa’ám, one in Persian the other in Arabic,
were translated into English and studied by Stephen Lambden and
extensively researched by Vahid Ra’fati (in Persian) a decade ago,
but they are still the topic of further investigation. In several places
in his writings, `Abdu’l-Bahá relates to, comments on, and interprets
certain themes in these early writings.
The importance of these tablets, as well as the third one, the Qaṣídatu
‘izz warqá’iyyah, is that they outline the future development of
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings about the Divine and the divine manifestations,
and their relation to the two levels of reality: that which is attainable
by the temporal senses and that which is attainable by the prophets’
super-awareness (SAQ 151).
Highly mystical, the language which Bahá’u’lláh uses in these tablets
is cryptic in many places and allusions are constantly made to diverse
sources which, on the whole, may be identified. Naturally, coming
from the Muslim world, Bahá’u’lláh’s prime source of reference is
Islam: the Qur’án, its interpretations and the ḥadíth. References are
also made to ṣúfí ideas and language. All these aspects have been
studied in depth by Ra’fati in his 1999 article in Persian in Safíniy-i-
‘Írfán (Book 2, pp. 50ff),1 and although he dealt with only one Tablet,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Rashḥ-i-‘Amá, his observations are also relevant to other early works
of Bahá’u’lláh.
Let us not forget, however, that Islam was not born in a void. It was
born in that part of the world that was the cradle of human civili-
zations, and the residues of all these civilizations were there when
Muḥammad and his successors created the Islamic religion and its
literature. This ancient legacy was memorized and constantly devel-
oped by storytellers, poets, and scholars, generation after generation,
and found its way into the Qur’án and its traditions as it had found its
way into the writings of the Hebrews, the Greeks, the Romans, and
the Christians. It is therefore interesting to examine some of the terms
Bahá’u’lláh uses in these early Tablets and compare them to the rich
sources that represent the ancient homiletic material which found its
way indirectly into Islamic ḥadíth literature and eventually also into
the writings of the báb and Bahá’u’lláh. I refer here to the extensive
body of midrashic and mystical Jewish literature. I do not mean that
the creators of the ḥadíth borrowed from the midrash, but that both
the midrash and the ḥadíth, in the larger meaning of the word, tapped
the same early sources which were available in the territory where they
were born and developed.
In this lecture I shall examine several ideas used by Bahá’u’lláh, such
as the idea of the cloud as the hiding place of the Divine Being or
His dwelling place before creation and after creation. I shall move
through the Bible and the midrash and show that Bahá’u’lláh’s world
of thought and imagination is well-rooted in the same ancient ground
that gave rise to various types of thinkers before him: Prophets and
priests, poets and storytellers, philosophers and theologians.
Many years ago I flew in a small airplane in which there was room only
for me and the pilot. It was a winter day and the sky was rather cloudy.
At a certain point, when we approached what looked like a wall of
cloud the pilot said: “I am looking for an empty hole in the clouds.”

Clouds and the Hiding God
I asked: “Why can’t you fly through the cloud?” and he said, “I don’t
know what is waiting inside it”.
I remembered this incident when I repeatedly encountered the idea
of clouds in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, especially his early writings
Rashḥ-i-‘amá’ and the Tablet of all Food,2 and in his later tablet Ode
of the Dove, as well as in many of his other writings, notably Kitáb-
i-Íqán, and the Hidden Words. In all these writings, Bahá’u’lláh uses
the word cloud in an allegorical meaning, sometimes as representing
the Divine Being, sometimes the manifestation, sometimes for a new
exegesis of the Scriptures, and sometimes, as in The Hidden Words,
to denote the idea of a veil concealing the person from the truth of
the New Manifestation (Thus: “yá ibn al-‘amá’—O son of the cloud!”).
But since every allegory has its source in more tangible and natural
words and although behind the façade of words there is often a
hidden meaning, I shall try in what follows to move between the two,
mainly concentrating on the sources behind the usage of the idea
of the cloud and touching upon two types of clouds bearing a close
relation to each other: the hiding cloud and the rain cloud. The first
type represents a wider concept than the other.
The Hiding Cloud
In the Tablets of Rashḥ-i-‘amá’, Kull aṭ-Ṭa‘ám, Qaṣídah Warqá’iyyah,
Ishráqát and many others, the Arabic-Persian word used for cloud is
‘amá’. In Kull aṭ-Ṭa‘ám (Khavárí, 2007, 257)3 this cloud acts as veil
behind which, in some cases, the divine dove or “the dove of light”, pre-
sumably the manifestation, hides singing the eternity of God. The
concealing cloud is called in this case, “veils of cloud, ḥujubát al-‘amá’.”
The context for identifying the cloud with a veil was the personal
situation of Bahá’u’lláh following his imprisonment in the Black
Dungeon, his experience of revelation therein, and his expulsion to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Iraq with all his family during the winter of 1853. He describes his
experience in that period as “a dark night” creating an unusual super-
lative adjective in Arabic from the word layl—night—to express it:
al-layl al-alyal for which in English translation would sound like “the
nightiest night.” As usual in his style he repeats the same idea in other
and more familiar forms: aẓ-ẓulumát al-aṭwal (instead of aẓ-ẓulumát
aṭ-ṭúlá) “the longest darknesses (sic!)”.
His message is clear: there is hope in this dark, seemingly hopeless
situation since behind the veil of the cloud, no doubt a dark cloud,
Bahá’u’lláh can hear the voice of the divine dove, and we, the readers,
whether believers or not, are made to carry the idea of this dove that
appears very frequently in Bahá’u’lláh’s world of similes. It could well
be compared to the dove in Jewish and Christian sources, the dove of
the shekhinah, literally meaning the divine presence.
At any rate, in this study we are interested in the cloud itself, even
before entering into the problems of interpreting it. The cloud
represents the dark veil which, in the “dark night”, is a perfect
hiding place for the divine, whose voice can be heard pointing to
His presence, but whose reality cannot be conceptualized. The
most striking example of this concept of God’s voice without His
appearance is found many times in the Bible.4 In the Book of Exo-
dus, passages describe the descent of God onto the burning Mount
Sinai engulfed in clouds and smoke that obscured the top of the
mountain. This terrifying event followed something the Israelites
coming out of Egypt had already experienced: God leading them in
a pillar of cloud in daytime. This cloud turned into a pillar of fire
by night. On Mount Sinai, God’s appearance was accompanied by
the rumbling of thunder and by lightening, and was, no doubt, very
spectacular making such a frightening impression on the people
that they said to Moses “Speak thou unto us and we will hear; but
let not God speak with us lest we die.” (Ex. 20:16)

Clouds and the Hiding God
In scores of places in the Bible the idea of God hiding in the cloud
is expressed in various forms, but in all of them it is a thick cloud
obscuring everything, not only inside it but naturally also what is
beyond it. Sometimes this thickness is expressed by the Hebrew
word ‘av (pl. ‘avím) instead of ‘anán, or even the two words together
as in Exodus 19:9: “And the Lord said unto Moses, ‘lo I come unto
thee in a thick cloud (‘av he‘anán), that the people may hear when I
speak unto thee’…” Note! “Hear” not “see”.
Before going on, we must emphasize here that even in the most
metaphorical usages when natural objects are involved, like clouds
in this case, the allegory is based on visualizing the real thing. No
matter how far the metaphor goes in using the natural object to
express an abstract idea, it is the natural object which leaves its
impression on the mind before entering into metaphysical and
speculative interpretations. For this reason, even though the cloud
is used by thinkers in an allegorical sense, it is still the cloud of
nature which they see and the reader, or listener sees. It is like say-
ing of a person that he is a lion, a snake or a monkey. The meaning
is understood but we still see these animals.
For the believer, who is neither a philosopher nor theologian, the
natural phenomena are the true reality, and he does not need any
interpretation to connect them directly with God.
For the Biblical man, God’s presence in heaven as well as his descent to
earth were natural realities. He did not indulge in hair-splitting argu-
ments concerning the question of whether God could be described
in limiting terms. On the contrary, prophets and ordinary believers
alike did not refrain from describing God in the most anthropomorphic
language. He has a head, eyes and hands. He is angry, loving, and
jealous just like any human. It is his omnipotence, omniscience
and omnipresence, his eternality and concealment which make
Him different from and above his creation. At the same time he is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
a personal god, who can be approached, who hears prayers and sup-
plications; he is compassionate and merciful, but also demanding and
dangerous. He can be loving but also full of rage and quick to punish:
a father in a patriarchal family. He is also mysterious, and his mystery
is dangerous: “Man cannot see me and live.” Moses, who for the Jews
is the human being who was allowed to come nearest to God, was
not allowed to witness His reality, God’s “face” in the language of the
Bible; he was allowed to witness only God’s “back” (Ex. 33:18–20).
This was the highest status that any human (in Judaism, prophets are
not manifestations of God) could ever reach, a status which earned
Moses in Islam the title of klím alláh “he who spoke with Alláh.”
Two divine elements are emphasized here: First, the arrival of God in
a cloud. In other words, the cloud is not only an obscuring substance,
forming an impenetrable veil, but also a divine chariot, to which we
shall soon return. Second, the voice of God is heard from inside the
cloud. The difference between this voice and the voice of the dove
is that with the former, the voice heard from the cloud in Sinai was
directed at all the people of Israel, in case of the dove of heaven only the
prophet could hear it. However, both voices were heard in the same
place, both on Mount Sinai, even if the Mount Sinai of Bahá’u’lláh is
a concept more than it is a geographical spot. The difference between
the two voices is both in the content and in the principle. The God
of Israel established a covenant with His people in the roaring voice
of thunder and the fire of lightening. But in Bahá’u’lláh’s vision the
atmosphere is subdued, quiet and gentle:
I beseech thee, my God, in the darkest night when the pigeon of
the cause (or: the divine Command) sings on Mount Sinai on
the right side of the Red Tree, the melodies of thy eternity; and
in those times of long darkness at the presence of the warbling
dove of light that sings thy infinity behind the veils of the cloud.

Clouds and the Hiding God
…يا الهي ألقسمنك في ذلك اليل األليل عند تغني حمامة األمر في جبل
السيناء  عن  يمين  شجرة  الحمراء  بتغنيات  أزليتك  وفي  تلك  الظلمات
األطول تلقاء تغرد ورقاء النوراء خلف حُجُ بات العماء بتغرّدات سرمديتك
(رحيق مختوم، ٢٠٠٧ ص ٢٥٧)
In Moses’ experience in Sinai it is specifically indicated that
the glory of the Lord abode upon on Mount Sinai and the
cloud covered it six days, and the seventh day he called unto
Moses out of the midst of the cloud, and the sight of the glory
of the Lord was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in
the eyes of the children of Israel. And Moses went onto the
midst of the cloud, and got up into the mount; and Moses
was in the mount forty days and forty nights (Ex. 24:16–18)
Bahá’u’lláh also wants “to go into the mount.” The scene as described
by him is much quieter: no rumbling thunder, but the prophet
hears the voice and also wants to be in the presence of his Lord; he
also wants to be invited. He uses a very strong word to entreat the
Almighty. Turning directly to him he says:
I beseech thee…that thou raise me up into the heaven of
concealment (ghayb)… and make me ascend to the horizon
of witnessing (shuhúd)… and make me climb into the hiding
place of thine Oneness, and honour me to encounter thy counte-
nance, so that I take an abode nigh unto thee, [at thy side], and
rest upon thine carpet and recline on the pillows of light and
stretch out on the heaven of the manifestation…
Here I wish again to point out the elements of the allegory, their usage
and the part they play in the mind of the hearer. Carpets, pillows,
cushions, stretching out, reclining, and so on, are of course meant
here metaphorically but one can not ignore the fact that first and
foremost they are real objects that represent real experience in a real

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
world. They are carried into the metaphor but it is because of their
real nature and function that the metaphor is understood. However,
in the eyes of the believer these and other similar objects need not
be understood metaphorically. On the contrary, the Muslim believer,
for instance, is assured by the Qur’án and a large number of tradi-
tions, as well as by endless sermons and writings of learned ‘ulamá’
that the delights of heaven are as real as they are described, with real
food, real drink and real women, and the fires of Hell consume like
any fire. Following this observation it should be emphasized that the
fire, and clouds, and thunders and lightening on Mount Sinai were
real. There is no metaphor here: “Moses drew near the heavy cloud
where God was” (Ex. 20:18). The Biblical message is clear: the cloud,
or the thick darkness, was a genuine cloud and God was actually in it.
Bahá’u’lláh wants to be there beyond the cloud and he is as bold as
Moses, or even bolder for, as we have just seen, he goes into great
detail about where exactly he wants to be in the presence of his Lord.
Moses expressed the same idea in a short sentence: “I beseech thee:
show me thy Glory.” (Ex. 33:18) To which God answers: “Thou canst
not see my face; for there shall no man see me, and live.” (EX. 33:20)
Unfortunately, there is no record of God’s answer to the same request
of Bahá’u’lláh who asks to be honoured with seeing God’s “face” or
countenance (bi’an tusharrifaní biziyárati ṭal’atika).
The cloud as a hiding place of God is a recurring topic in the Bible;
moreover it is his abode. Thus, for instance, when King Solomon
built the Temple in Jerusalem and placed the Ark in it “the cloud
filled the House of the Lord… for the glory of the Lord filled the
House of the Lord.” (1K, 8:10–11). In other words, God came in His
cloud into the house built for him on earth. For usually He does not
dwell on earth, or, in the words of Solomon: “The Lord said that he
would dwell in the thick darkness.” (1 K, 8:12) The Hebrew word for
“thick darkness”—‘arafel—is rightly translated as “dark cloud” in the
King James Bible.

Clouds and the Hiding God
But the cloud, as we have already mentioned, is not God’s static home.
As a natural phenomenon, the clouds move, and therefore the cloud is
the chariot of God. In many places in the Bible, God is portrayed as
riding, or sitting on a cloud. He is also called “the rider on the clouds.”
(rokhev ba’aravot. Ps. 68:5) The word ‘aravot for clouds was borrowed
together with its context from Ugarit where we find the god Ba’al, the
chief deity of the Phoenicians, riding on clouds.
God is also described as moving from place to place riding on a cherub.
Thus we find in Psalms 18:11(=2 Samuel 22:11): “And he rode upon
a cherub and did fly; and he was seen upon the wings of the wind.”
The prophet Ezekiel (1:4–26), describes in great detail his vision of
the living chariot of the theophanic God, resting on four cherubs.
The throne upon which he sits is above them, under the dome of the
sky, exactly as in nature the clouds are under the sky, so that God
moves with his chariot under the canopy of his permanent abode.
He sits on the cherub or cherubs and they spread their wings to
conceal him, exactly like the cloud. In fact, clouds and cherubs are
one and the same; they interchange easily in biblical descriptions.
The idea of the cloud-cherub being God’s veil, protecting the divine
appearance and at the same time serving as the divine chariot is well
represented in a verse from the book of Samuel following the one
just quoted which described God as riding on a cherub. “And He
made darkness pavilions round about him, dark water, and thick
clouds of the sky.” (2 Samuel, 22:12)5
The cloud as the hiding place of God is no doubt the source of the
ḥadíth which appears even in traditionally accepted, authoritative col-
lections. When the prophet Muḥammad was asked “where was God
before he created his creation”, he answered: “He was in a cloud above
which was water and beneath which was water . Then he created his
throne on the water.” (Ibn Májah 65)6

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
This tradition is usually quoted because of the word ‘amá’ used in
it, which has caused some discussion among theologians and mystic
philosophers, because it defines God in the most limiting terms.
However, believers, as I emphasized before, are not bothered by such
hairsplitting arguments, and the concealment of God in a cloud is
perfectly fitting, a very enduring human belief. It is enough to read
the first verses of the book of Genesis to encounter the same idea.
Before creation or in the very first act of creation “when the earth was
without form and void; and darkness upon the face of the water; and
the spirit of God moved upon the face of the water” God began his
creation in the course of which he divided between the lower water
“which was under the firmament” and upper water “above the firma-
ment” (Genesis, 1:7). In the ḥadíth, which was created a few thousands
years after the Biblical tradition, it is not very difficult to see how this
division of water came into being. It is not far-fetched to suppose that
the firmament in Genesis could well be the cloud in the ḥadíth.
Going deeper into Sumerian-Babylonian records brings us to the
story about the god Marduch, the head of the Babylonian pantheon,
splitting in two the body of the monster Tiamet, ancient goddess of
the primeval waters, creating heaven (with its water) from one half
and earth (with its water) from the other half.
Coming back to the ḥadíth we are told that God first created His throne
on the water, no doubt on the higher water, which is above the cloud,
and which thus continues to fulfill its main function as a concealing
veil for the divine. In the Biblical tradition this point is made very
clear: God erects his throne above the cloud-chariot. Prophet Ezekiel
described the throne above the chariot, other Biblical texts describe
the throne in heaven, namely inside the canopy above the clouds: “The
Lord has established His throne in the Heaven; and his Kingdom
ruleth over all,” says the Psalmist (Ps. 103:19). And the Prophet Isa-
iah, criticizing the idea of building the House of the Lord on earth,

Clouds and the Hiding God
declares: “Thus saith the Lord: The heaven is my throne and the earth
is my footstool; where is the house that ye may build unto Me? And
where is the place that may be my resting place? (Isaiah, 66:1)
From the chariot (Heb. merkavah), God can rise to his throne in
heaven, and from the throne he descends to his clouds-chariot.
Both ways the gates of heaven open in coordination with his move-
ments; but whichever way, he is always concealed from the creation
by the clouds.
Clouds of Rain
What are the clouds to which Bahá’u’lláh alludes in his writings. To
begin with, we see that he uses the word ‘amá’ as well as the word
ghimám to describe clouds. (Ode of the Dove v. 2, 3) He also uses
the word saḥáb in the same meaning. Even more interesting is the
fact that that he refers to God as he who rides over a cloud, exactly
as we have just found in the Biblical references, and one can hardly
exclude a Biblical influence particularly since as it seems, reading
the Kitáb-i-Íqán, that Bahá’u’lláh (as well as ‘`Abdu’l-Bahá—(SAQ,
36ff) was familiar with the Book of Daniel where we read the verse
which speaks about the clouds of heaven as a divine chariot: “And
behold there came with the clouds of Heaven, One like unto the
son of man.” (Daniel: 7:13)
In the Ishráqát, we find a reference to Him who rides on the clouds:
qad atá al-wahháb rákiban ‘alá as-saḥáb—“the Bestower has come riding
on the clouds,” and again the same formula in a form of an oath: qul:
balá wa-rabb-as-saḥáb—“Say: Yes, by the lord of the clouds.” (Ishráqát,
Majmú‘ah-i-Alwáḥ, Hofhein, 2000, p. 66 l.11 and last line)7 The
Islamic tradition which speaks about God being in a cloud before cre-
ation has been rightly connected with the famous ḥadíth qudsí where

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
God referred to Himself as “hidden treasure (kanz maknún),” and
that wishing to be known he decided to create His creation. In other
words, this ḥadíth coming straight from the mouth of God himself
attributes to God wills and wishes, even uncontrolled needs such as
human needs: to be known. But this ḥadíth is neither strange nor
original. Going some thousand years back to the Midrashic tradition
we find that God created the world because he wanted to build for
himself an abode “down below” (Midrash Tanḥúmah on Naso, ch.16)
and to choose for Himself people who would proclaim his Name all
the time. How otherwise would He be known? 8
Bahá’u’lláh rejected the idea that through creation God revealed
himself and came out, so to speak, from his hidden abode. Turning
to God in an adoring prayer he says that every part in him bears testi-
mony to God’s oneness, omnipotence, omniscience, government and
glory; “and that you are Alláh, no god but thee. You are forever a hidden
treasure concealed from the eyes and conceptualization, and forever you
are what you are eternally and for ever and ever.” (Ishráqát 65). In other
words God is still concealed probably in his cloud.
If we accept that Rashḥ-i-‘amá’ is the first tablet of Bahá’u’lláh, or at
least one of the first, then we must consider his particular descrip-
tion of this cloud, because it may reveal some of his later attitude
to the same subject. This is a cloud which rains! Presumably water;
although the hidden meaning in this poem which may be described
as an Ode to the Manifestation is completely spiritual. This poem is
a precursor of his much longer poem on the same subject the Ode of the
Dove. In both of these poems, we encounter the theme or the symbol
of the raining cloud. In the early poem, the word used for raining
or sprinkling, is rashḥ a word which is reserved mainly for water. In
the Ode of the Dove, written at least thirty years later, the substance
sprinkled by the cloud is perfume, (“Because of its resplendence
the perfume of the cloud was stirred”—libahjatihá misk al-‘amá’
tahajjat) an understandable choice of word for describing the new

Clouds and the Hiding God
Manifestation. But, then he goes on to use another word denoting
clouds for describing the New Times of the divine salvation. It is not
‘amá’ but ghimám. The reference, as Bahá’u’lláh himself explains, is
to two verses in the Qur’án, both referring, with and without addi-
tional interpolations, to the End of Days, or as Bahá’u’lláh puts it:
kull dhálika min ‘alámát al-qiyámah wa-má yaḥduthu bihá:—All these
are the signs of the resurrection (or, End of Days) and that which
will happen therein.” (Bahá’u’lláh’s notes to the first three verses of
the Ode of the Dove.)
The idea behind the usage of ‘amá’ and ghimám in these verses is
that these two words are synonyms. The word ghimám means heavy
clouds, which reflects the meaning of the verb ghamma, to veil. So
this type of cloud is thick enough to veil God and the angels who,
according to the Qur’án, ride over it.
The word ‘amá’ represents all kinds of clouds, of any possible shape.
However, its usual meaning is a heavy cloud of rain (like its synonyms
saḥáb and ghimám); even if in the dictionaries other meanings can
be found, which Vahid Ra’fati diligently collected. These meanings
stretch from a very thin cloud to one heavy with rain and a cloud
which has already poured its water but has not yet scattered. (Ra’fati,
1999:53)
Dark clouds, heavy with rain, are those connected with God. Man
has always been fascinated with rain clouds because, after all, these
are the clouds that enable him to live. In all religions, God or the gods
cause these clouds to bestow life on earth. The clouds accompanied by
lightening and thunder were identified with the great life-giving god.
Ancient man paid attention to the fact that clouds of rain are found
around the peaks of high mountains even when they are not anywhere
else. It is not surprising that the tops of these high mountains, reach-
ing out to the sky and surrounded by clouds pouring their rain, were
seen as the abodes of the gods and the situation of the throne of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
supreme deity, the god who was identified with rain and thunder. The
ancient Greeks identified Zeus as this god and in times of drought
the Athenians prayed: “Rain, rain, O, dear Zeus on the corn lands of
the Atheneans and the plains.” (Frazer, 1967 210)9 Zeus’s counter-
part, the chief deity among the Hindus is Indra the god of war, storms,
thunder and rain. In the Daily Jewish prayer, known as the Eighteen
Benedictions, the second benediction extolling God’s omnipotence
and his ability to quicken the dead (including, no doubt, the dry land
after the long summer) says:
Thou O Lord are mighty for ever, Thou revivest the dead,
Thou are mighty to save. Thou causest the wind to blow and
the rain to fall. (Hertz, Daily Prayer, 1976, 133)10
The Psalmist, extolling God, speaks frequently about His great
power by which He causes rainfall, lightning and thunder.
“He causeth vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth,
He maketh lightening for the rain; He bringeth forth the
wind out of his treasuries.” (Ps. 135:4)
That rain was the gift of the all-powerful God who was recognized
as such by ancient man, no matter to which culture or religion he
belonged. Dark clouds of rain were a gift or a reward from God for
those who followed his commandments. This divine gift, the rain, is,
therefore, conditional.
Thus we read in Deuteronomy 11 in the passage that forms the central
part of the Shema’, the most important of the Jewish prayers:
And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently unto
my commandments which I command you this day, to love
the Lord your God, and to serve him with all your heart and
all your soul, that I will give the rain of your land in its season,

Clouds and the Hiding God
the former rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest gather
in thy grain, and thy wine and thine oil… (Deu. 11:13–14)
Otherwise, in the case of disobedience:
…the anger of the Lord be kindled against you, and He shut
up the heaven, that there be no rain and that the land yield
not her fruit… (Verses 14–17)
There was only a short distance between natural rain, representing
God’s benevolence, and the mystical idea of divine grace streaming
down from His secret abode onto the world. There was nothing
strange or unusual in the idea which we find in the Jewish Kabbala
of the divine life giving water, or God’s seed, streaming through the
tree of the sefirot from the “Ancient of Days”, from the highest sefira,
the Divine Crown, down to the lowest one, the sefira of Kingship
(malkhut). Similarly, it was only natural, therefore, for Bahá’u’lláh to
use the same idea to describe the appearance of the new manifesta-
tion of God in a term so well-known to people as rain from a cloud.
He leaves no doubt about the comparison of this manifestation to
real rain, for the language he uses is very clear. He uses the Arabic
word rashḥ which has the specific meaning, as we saw, of dripping
or leaking, mainly of water, but he defines it with the Persian verb
ríkhtan [ríz] which means to pour. This is the verb which he chose as
the rhyming word throughout the whole poem. Having established
the comparison he can continue by qualifying the pouring down as
not being of water but of the secret of God’s fulfilled promise, and the
rain, therefore, is another rain, not water, and the wind that blows
with it brings the perfumes of China. This rain is:
The overflow of the manifestation, the pouring of purity, the
song of the birds it is, which comes through straight from the
inner nothingness.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
This explains why `Abdu’l Bahá, in his interpretation of the word
‘amá’ to a believer in Egypt, avoided speaking about the dark cloud
of rain and opted for what he defined as the very light, delicate cloud
which can sometimes be seen and sometimes not. It is only if you
were to concentrate intensely you might see something but when just
looking nothing can be seen. Because of this, ‘amá’ was understood
to mean the absolute reality.” (Ra’fati 1999, 58).11 Just as the cloud
can be seen and not be seen so also in the case of the perfect oneness
and absolute reality there is perception and non-perception of the
attributes which are in the Self (dhát), conceptualized and not con-
ceptualized. This is the situation of the “hidden treasures mentioned
in the hadith.” (ibid)
Were `Abdu’l-Bahá to regard the cloud as a heavy rain-cloud he
would have found himself in the realm of the rather crude idea of
God hiding in real darkness which would mean limiting him to a
specific place, whereas ‘amá’, as he explains it, turns the whole con-
cept into an allegorical one. Cloud, wind, perfume, rain and sun can
therefore be used freely without fear of crossing the border of ta‘yín,
limitation by definition.

Clouds and the Hiding God
NOTES
Vahid Ra’fati, Safíneye ‘Irfán, II, 1999, p58.
These two Tablets were studied in great detail by Vahid Ra’fati and Stephen
Lambden who also translated them both into English. Ra’fati composed a
profound study of the first with extensive interpretations.
Ishráq Khavárí, Raḥíq-i-Makhtúm, II, 2007, p. 257.
As well as in the canonical ḥadíths describing the first revelation to Muḥammad
through the ear not through the eye.
On chariot and cloud (merkava ve ‘anán) see in detail the study of N.H. Tur-
Sinai, The Language and the Book (Hebrew), Jerusalem, 1956: 62–72)
Ibn Májah, Sunan, Muqaddimah, 13:182 Publ. Dár al-Fikr n.d. p.65
Ishráqát, Majmú‘ah-i-Alwáḥ, Hofhein: 2000, p. 66 l.11 and last line.
Babylonian Talmud, Berakhot, 6a.
James Frazer, The Golden Bough, 1967:210
Hertz, Daily Prayer, London: Soncino Press, 1976 p133.
Vahid Ra’fati, Safíneye ‘Irfán, II, 1999, p58.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912:
A Preliminary Analysis
Robert H. Stockman
`Abdu’l-Bahá Abbás visited North America from April 11 to
December 5, 1912. His eight-month sojourn took Him to some
44 localities in 15 states and the provinces of Quebec and Ontario,
Canada. Because His North American trip followed on an earlier
European visit (Aug. 22-Dec. 2, 1911), when `Abdu’l-Bahá arrived
in New York He had a developed routine. He established Himself
in a hotel or, ideally, a rented house, so that He had the space to
provide hospitality and the freedom to welcome people of all races.
He held what today we would call a press conference shortly after
arrival, then began a daily schedule that involved correspondence
in the morning, private meetings with individuals and small groups,
sometimes a public talk in the salon before lunch because the press of
visitors became too great for individual meetings, an afternoon walk
in a park (sometimes accompanied by a crowd) or an appointment,
then an evening meeting, often in the house of a Bahá’í. The latter on
occasion might start with dinner and continue into the late evening or
early morning.
When `Abdu’l-Bahá arrived on April 11, He already had three
invitations to major events: the Persian-American Educational
Society annual conference in Washington, D.C., April 18-20; the
Bahai Temple Unity annual convention a week later in Chicago; and
the Lake Mohonk Peace Conference in the Catskill Mountains of
central New York, May 14-16. Therefore, after nine days in New
York City, during which He spoke at the Church of the Ascension,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Columbia University, New York University, and at the Bowery Mis-
sion, `Abdu’l-Bahá went to Washington for a week (without visiting
the Philadelphia and Baltimore Bahá’í communities), then Chicago
for a week. At that point he had visited the three largest Bahá’í
communities in the United States, located in the country’s three
most influential cities. He headed back to Washington, visiting
the Cleveland and Pittsburgh Bahá’ís on the way, fulfilled further
commitments in the American capital, then returned to New York
City briefly and headed to Lake Mohonk. His first month was a
whirlwind of activity.
For the next two months—from May 17 to July 23—`Abdu’l-Bahá
used New York City as His headquarters. He rented a house, gave
talks there during the afternoon and usually in the houses of Bahá’ís
in the evening, and spoke to various churches and societies. From
New York He made excursions to greater Boston (May 22-25),
Philadelphia (June 8-10), and Montclair, New Jersey (June 21-29).
Particularly notable were His talks at Clark University, the annual
Unitarian Association conference, the annual meeting of the Free
Religious Association, and Russell Conwell’s moderately evangelical
Baptist Temple in Philadelphia.
Escaping the heat and humidity of New York City , `Abdu’l-Bahá
made a two-day visit to Boston, then spent twenty-three days in
Dublin, a major summer resort area for the wealthy in southern
New Hampshire (July 25-Aug. 16). `Abdu’l-Bahá initially planned
to depart America in September.1 The earnest pleading of the
California Bahá'ís, however, caused Him to change plans and head
west. Leaving Dublin, in the next two months He visited Green
Acre Bahá'í School (Aug. 16-23), greater Boston again (Aug. 23-30),
Montreal (Aug. 31-Sept. 9), Buffalo (Sept. 10-12), Chicago (Sept.
13-17, including a day visit to Kenosha, Wisconsin), Minneapolis-
Saint Paul (Sept. 17-21), Lincoln and Omaha, Nebraska (Sept.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
22-23), Denver (Sept. 23-26), Glenwood Springs (Sept. 27-28), Salt
Lake City (Sept. 29-Oct. 1), and the San Francisco area (Oct. 2-18).
In all those places, except Nebraska, Glenwood Springs, and Salt
Lake City, there were local Bahá'í communities to plan meetings and
secure speaking invitations at churches and synagogues. The stop in
Nebraska was prompted because William Jennings Bryan, the for-
mer Presidential candidate and future Secretary of State, had visited
`Abdu'l-Bahá in Akka and `Abdu'l-Bahá wished to return the gesture;
Mr. Bryan was traveling, but Mrs. Bryan entertained Him. The
22-hour Glenwood Springs visit was necessitated by exhaustion. The
three-day stop in Salt Lake City is surprising; He did meet a Bahá'í
travelling from Montana in the city, but had no Bahá'í community to
visit. He expressed interest in the agriculture fair and perhaps was
drawn by the spiritual character of the city, but He may also have
decided not to arrive in California until after the funeral of Thornton
Chase, so as not to  be a distraction from the services for the first
American Bahá'í.
`Abdu'l-Bahá originally had no intention to travel outside the Bay
area. The Bahá'ís in Portland and Seattle had hoped He would
visit their cities and had even publicized speaking invitations, but
had to satisfy themselves with a train trip to Oakland to visit Him.
He made an exception to visit the grave of Thornton Chase, in Los
Angeles (Oct. 18-21).
After four days more in the Bay area, `Abdu'l-Bahá started back east,
visiting Sacramento (Oct. 25-26), Denver (Oct. 29), Chicago (Oct.
31-Nov. 4), Cincinnati (Nov. 5), Washington (Nov. 6-11), Baltimore
(Nov. 11), and Philadelphia (for a few minutes on Nov. 11; thirty
Bahá'ís got on the train for one stop to visit with Him). His last three
and a half weeks in the United States were spent in New York City

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
(Nov. 12-Dec. 5). He took few public speaking engagements, but
spoke daily in several Bahá'í homes and in His rented house.
A preliminary review of talks mentioned in Mahmúd’s Diary, Star of
the West, and other sources suggest that He gave approximately 375
talks during His trip (of which 139 were published in The Promulga-
tion of Universal Peace), an average of 1.5 per day. There were some
days when He gave as many as four. Extrapolation from known
attendance figures and some statistical assumptions allow one to
arrive at a rough figure of 93,000 people who attended His talks.2
His audience included high and low alike. In Washington, D.C.,
where the Bahá'ís had excellent contacts with government officials,
and at the Lake Mohonk Peace Conference, which was a fairly small
and exclusive gathering of influential men, He spoke with many of
the influential figures in American society. Particularly notewor-
thy are the talks He gave in thirty-one liberal and moderate white
Protestant churches, fourteen Theosophical and other metaphysical
gatherings, five universities, three synagogues, one African American
church, Hull House, at the Lake Mohonk Peace Conference, and at
the fourth annual NAACP conference.
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s talks can be divided roughly into two types: those to
the public and those primarily to Bahá'í audiences. The former usu-
ally started with a reference to a common experience—a comment by
the previous speaker, a scriptural text that had been just read, an event
from the daily newspaper, or the weather. From there, a link was often
made to a related event in the life of Christ, then to a comparison to
the life of Bahá'u'lláh and finally to the theme `Abdu'l-Bahá sought to
develop, which He illustrated by stories or anecdotes. Sometimes He
grounded theological points on rational proofs based on Neoplatonic
principles, referring to the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms,
or to essences of things.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
A message to the West gradually developed throughout His journey
that emphasized up to eleven principles of the Bahá'í Faith: investiga-
tion of reality, the oneness of humanity, the oneness of religion and
science, the abandonment of prejudices, the adjustment of economic
standards, equality of men and women, universal education, religion
must be a cause of love and unity, establishment of an equal standard
of human rights, a universal language, and the power of the Holy
Spirit. `Abdu'l-Bahá first used this approach to presenting the Faith
to public audiences at meetings in Paris in November 1911.
Some of the eleven are emphasized in Bahá'u'lláh’s writings, like
universal education; others mentioned, like a universal language; yet
others only implied in the texts available in the West at that time , like
equality of the sexes. `Abdu'l-Bahá also chose not to mention some
principles stressed by Bahá'u'lláh, such as the importance of promot-
ing agriculture.3 The list of principles represented a crystallization of
teachings that could already be found in `Abdu'l-Bahá’s writings and
policies (such as encouraging the Iranian Bahá'ís to open schools for
girls and to bring about the advancement of women). The talks, which
were soon published in Persian, provided the Bahá'ís, east and west,
with a new summary of some basic Bahá'í teachings, one particularly
relevant to a modern, westernized audience.
`Abdu'l-Bahá did not talk about principles right away in the United
States. He first mentioned three principles in a talk at the Parsons
residence in Washington, D.C., on April 25, expanded to seven
principles to the Chicago press on April 30 and at the Hotel Schenley
in Pittsburg on May 7, then spoke of eight principles in His chief
address at Lake Mohonk on May 15. The order of the points was
not fixed and the number varied from talk to talk (He gave ten
principles at the Baptist Temple, Philadelphia, on June 9 and eleven
at St. James Methodist Church in Montreal on September 5). Many

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
of these principles in turn become the sole theme of talks to other
groups, such as Esperantists or women’s clubs. His frequent support
for women’s suffrage often was featured in the headlines of newspaper
articles about Him. In current Bahá'í terms, `Abdu'l-Bahá’s talks
were active engagement in public discourse.
Other groups received specialized talks on other themes: Theosophists
often heard about the oneness of God and progressive revelation; the
poor often heard about the divine rewards awaiting the involuntarily
impoverished poor who had the right attitude toward their lot. His
synagogue talks were controversial. He offered proofs of the divine
origin of the missions of Abraham and Moses, which were then used
to prove that Jesus and Muhammad received authority from the
same source. `Abdu'l-Bahá then called on the Jews to recognize the
prophethood of Jesus and Muhammad. But it would seem that He
was not calling on them to renounce Judaism; rather, He was tak-
ing a position similar to that held by liberal Protestants, Jews, and
Hindus, that religionists should acknowledge and respect each other’s
founders as a basis of dialogue and peace: “Whenever these people
mention each other’s leaders with due reverence then all sufferings
and contentions shall cease, and instead of hatred there will be love
and instead of enmity and disunity there will be harmony and affection.
This is my purpose.”4
A frequent and very important theme in many of His talks was
the need to establish world peace. He proposed no easy solutions
for this achievement, emphasizing the need for true and abiding
love between all humans, striving to free oneself from prejudices
(particularly national and racial), and a deep understanding of the
implications of the oneness of humanity. His emphasis on profound
personal spiritual transformation seems to have been missed by some
of His audience, who sought superficial political and diplomatic solu-
tions and sometimes understood His talks to consist of platitudes.
He often began His discourse on the need for peace by stressing the

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
horrible bloodshed and destruction being wrought by the Italians in
their unprovoked and unjustified campaign to wrest modern Libya
from the Ottomans. When that war helped to spawn the first Balkan
War—where Serbia, Bulgaria, and Greece, emboldened by Ottoman
weakness in Libya, sought to enlarge their domains at the expense of
the Turks—He condemned the bloodshed there, warned it would
continue, and praised efforts to end the war. At least six times in His
North American travels—in New York City, Milford, PA, Montreal,
Buffalo, Omaha, and Sacramento—He warned that Europe was a
powder keg and a much greater and more destructive war there was
coming. The Balkan War set the conditions for World War One.
Talks to Bahá'ís, on the other hand—especially the last talk to them
in each locality—usually emphasized two things: first, the Covenant
and obedience to `Abdu'l-Bahá as the Center of the Covenant, and
second, teaching the Faith.5 `Abdu'l-Bahá warned against association
with Covenant-breakers, gave examples of communities that were
avoiding them effectively, and noted that communities with endur-
ing connections to them tended to be stagnant. He warned specific
Bahá'ís about their connections with Covenant-breakers and even
temporarily expelled Howard MacNutt from the community for his
failure to understand and obey. He met with the governing bodies of
the Chicago and New York Bahá'ís and had the former reorganized
and reelected. He often mentioned the Universal House of Justice that
would be formed in the future, thus alluding to aspects of His Will
and Testament—already drafted but still not public—and presaging
the development of the Bahá'í Administrative Order.6
Such talks, clearly, were designed to build a distinct, separate Bahá'í
community, not to encourage those interested in Bahá'u'lláh’s
teachings to remain in their churches and leaven them from
within. `Abdu'l-Bahá laid the cornerstone of the Bahá'í House of
Worship when He visited the Chicago area, an act of great historic
significance that was also designed to build a distinct and separate

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
religious community. But `Abdu'l-Bahá did not emphasize distinc-
tive aspects of Bahá'í practice. There are no references to talks where
He discussed fasting or Bahá'í obligatory prayer, even though some
Bahá'ís were already following these practices. He was in North
America for eight of the nine Bahá'í holy days, but generally did not
commemorate them. He did not tell the Bahá'ís that they should
stop consuming alcohol, though a few had already done so. Rather,
He deferred implementation of these aspects of Bahá'í practice to a
future time.
Where teaching the Faith was concerned, He stressed that a Bahá'í
must love humanity, seek to serve others, and develop such a burning
passion for people and service that others would be attracted to the
Cause. The Bahá'í communities themselves had to strengthen their
love and unity to the point where they became magnets for others.
Bahá'ís also should go out to other places to proclaim the teachings.
He had already encouraged regional and international Bahá'í teaching
trips for at least eight years and at least six North American Bahá'ís
had already traveled across Asia to speak about the Faith.7 The
foundation for the Tablets of the Divine Plan had already been laid
before His North American visit, and His talks to the Bahá'ís about
teaching did much to prepare them for the ambitious goals He was
to give them four short years later.
Nearly 200 newspaper articles about His visit are currently available
in the archives in Wilmette. Coverage was almost uniformly positive,
in spite of the critical comments of Christian missionaries and a few
verbal challenges by Covenant-breakers. The positive treatment sur-
prised the Bahá'ís, who feared `Abdu'l-Bahá “would simply be placed
on a level with many traveling ‘Swamis.’” As Thornton Chase, the
first American Bahá'í, noted, “there is evidently a certain strength,
sincerity, righteousness, wisdom, knowledge, and nobility manifest-
ing from him, as an aura of spiritual power, that even our flippant
and calloused news men are restrained by it.”8 This comment also

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
highlights another characteristic of `Abdu'l-Bahá an aspect feebly
captured by the overused term charisma—which was commented
on in a variety of ways by those who met Him.
Another notable feature of `Abdu'l-Bahá’s visit was His emphasis on
race unity. There are no reports indicating that the Hindu or Buddhist
teachers who had come to America had made efforts to meet African
Americans or attend their events. When in Washington `Abdu'l-Bahá
spoke at Howard University and to the Bethel Literary Society at
Metropolitan A. M. E Church. He charged Agnes Parson, a wealthy
white socialite, with the mission of promulgating race unity. In
Chicago He attended a session of the 4th annual convention of the
NAACP. He arranged to speak at a special gathering of the African
American servants of the wealthy whites vacationing in Dublin, N.H.
In San Francisco He visited an ill African American Bahá’í in his
house. In New York He arranged for a special banquet for African
American Bahá’ís turned away from the official farewell banquet at
the Great Northern Hotel. That evening, white Bahá’ís served their
black co-religionists.
Equality of the races was a frequent theme He underlined when
speaking about the oneness of humankind. His insistence that Louis
Gregory, an African American Bahá’í attorney, be seated at His
right hand at a formal luncheon hosted by the Persian legation and
attended by prominent Washingtonians made a major statement
about inclusion and violated almost every spoken and unspoken rule
about racial separation in that segregated city. His encouragement of
Louis Gregory and Louise Mathews—a British Bahá’í who accom-
panied Him to America—to consider marriage, led to their union on
September 27, 1912, the first interracial marriage in the American
Bahá’í community.9
`Abdu'l-Bahá carried out an exhausting and demanding schedule,
day after day, for many months in spite of the fact that He was 68

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
years old and suffering from the ill effects of forty years of imprison-
ment and privation. His health in August of 1910 was so bad that
He rested in Egypt an entire year, even though His initial plan was
to follow a one-month sojourn in Port Said with an immediate trip
to Europe (GPB).10 His four-month sojourn in Europe, beginning
in August, 1911, required a second Egyptian rest of three months.
After arriving in the U.S., at times He spoke several times in a single
day in spite of fever. The heat and humidity of summer impaired His
health, which was a reason He went to Dublin, New Hampshire,
for three weeks, and one reason He initially planned to leave North
America for Europe in September. While traveling by train He often
eschewed comfort and slept upright on a passenger seat, though on
the transcontinental trip from San Francisco to Chicago He did
agree to Pullman accommodation every other night.
One approach to assessing the impact of `Abdu'l-Bahá’s visit to
North America and its Bahá'ís is to compare His visit to that of
other “Oriental” religious leaders. He was not the first Asian reli-
gious teacher to come to the United States; that honor is held by
Protap Chunder Mozoomdar (1840-1905), a leader of the Brahmo
Samaj, an important early Hindu nationalist movement. Mozoomdar
visited over sixty Unitarian churches and a few Congregationalist
churches in New England, New York, Washington, D.C., greater
Chicago, and San Francisco, between August 28 and November
24, 1883. Because Mozoomdar emphasized Hindu monotheism
and expressed great love and respect for Christ, he was often called
a Unitarian, though he personally rejected the label. On his second
American trip in 1893, Mozoomdar spoke at the World’s Parliament
of Religions in Chicago, then went to Indianapolis, Buffalo, Boston,
New York City, and Washington, reportedly delivering over two
hundred talks in three months. He returned to the United States
for five weeks in May and June 1900 to visit Unitarian churches and
organizations in Massachusetts and to travel to New York City and
Washington, D.C.11

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
Contemporaneously, Anagarika Dharmapala (1864-1933) spoke at
the Parliament and went on a three-month tour of the United States,
to which he returned in 1896-97 and at least once subsequently.
Dharmapala’s talks stimulated considerable interest in Buddhism
and one American became a Buddhist, though no specific Buddhist
group resulted.
Better known is Swami Vivekananda (1863-1902) of the Rama
Krishna Mission, who spoke repeatedly at the Parliament and then
crisscrossed the United States for two and a half years, lecturing
on Hinduism, critiquing “Christian civilization,” and criticizing
missionaries for attempting to Christianize India. Vivekananda’s
aggressive speaking style, his eloquent English accented with a slight
brogue, and his impressive education in western philosophy made
him a formidable and controversial speaker, which may explain why
his travels in the United States are remembered by scholars of religion
better than anyone else’s. Vivekananda spoke to opera house audi-
ences, women’s clubs, and Unitarian churches; he was rarely invited
to speak in a mainline Protestant place of worship. Those doors,
however, were open to `Abdu'l-Bahá fifteen years later.
Unlike the other teachers, Vivekananda created a community of
American converts, the Vedanta Society, though the group had only a
hundred or so members when Vivekananda left America, had less than
two hundred members in 1912, and in the early twenty-first century
has grown to 2,500 adherents.12 His group has never approached the
American Bahá'í community in size. The early followers were nearly
all wealthy, educated, European Americans.
All three South Asian religious leaders included fund raising for their
various projects among their pleas. Vivekananda had to pay for his
own traveling expenses; he sold tickets to many of his lectures. In
contrast `Abdu'l-Bahá received a steady stream of financial support
from the Persian Bahá'í community and accepted no such support  at

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
all from Americans before or during His western tour. When Ameri-
can Bahá'ís tried to donate money to Him, he refused it and urged
them to give it to charity.
Mozoomdar, Dharmapala, Vivekanada, and other eastern teachers
such as D. T. Suzuki (the principal founder of Zen Buddhism in the
United States, whose wife, interestingly enough, was an American
Bahá'í)13 had a measurable impact on American culture because they
were the harbingers of ancient and vast religious-cultural traditions;
they were the tip of an iceberg, the rest of which was increasingly
accessible because of colonialism, growing commercial ties with Asia,
military involvement in the region, tourism, and extensive wealth
that could be lavished on the endowing of university chairs and the
subvention of extensive translation efforts. In contrast, in 1912—
and even today—the Bahá'í Faith is a small religious community, a
minority in every land where it is found, with a relatively undeveloped
secondary literature and cultural expressions. As a result, no cultural,
commercial, and political forces were available to continue the
momentum started by `Abdu'l-Bahá’s visit.
The other Asian teachers attended a pivotal event in American reli-
gious history: the World’s Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago
in September, 1893. They helped to make the Parliament a pivotal
event because their presence on the stage as equals to the Christians
implied an equality between Christianity and other religions, an idea
either flatly rejected or beyond the imagination of most American
Christians of the time. By puncturing stereotypes of “heathen”
religions—sometimes in dramatic and controversial ways—they
inaugurated a revolution in thinking that moved Christianity from
“the truth” to “a religion” like the others.
They also helped move a myriad of liberal Protestants toward an
appreciation of and sympathy toward other religions, thereby build-
ing on the insights and enthusiasms of the earlier generations of

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
Transcendentalists. Thus, for example, the twenty year old Ernest
Hocking—decades later a prominent Harvard philosopher and an
important lay Protestant thinker—attended a talk by Vivekananda at
the World’s Parliament of Religions and came away with the realiza-
tion that secular thinkers like Herbert Spencer did not have the last
word about the biological and psychological origins of religion; rather,
that transcendent religious experience was real, whether experienced
by a Hindu like Vivekananda or a Methodist like himself.14 Hocking
went on to pen a preface to the Bhagavad-Gita and to chair a major
liberal Protestant commission that reexamined the nature and pur-
pose of international Protestant missionary work in the 1930s.
The nearest equivalent to Ernest Hocking, in the Bahá'í context,
was Thomas Kelly Cheyne (1841-1915), a prominent Oxford scholar
of the Old Testament and an advocate of higher biblical criticism,
who met `Abdu'l-Bahá when He visited Britain in 1913, became a
Bahá'í in 1914, and wrote a book, The Reconciliation of Races and
Religions, which was published that year. There is also the example of
Albert Léon Guérard (1880-1959), a professor of French at Stanford
University, who attended `Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk there in October 1912.
Guérard, a French Protestant who became an Episcopalian, was
intrigued and maintained a lifelong interest in Bahá’í ideas about
race unity, world peace, a world government, and an international
language. But the extent to which they influenced his humanist
thinking—he published 28 books—or his active support of interna-
tionalist causes such as the United Nations remains to be explored.15
He himself never indicated to Bahá'ís that Bahá'í ideas had shaped
his thinking significantly.
When `Abdu'l-Bahá visited America in 1912, thought systems such
as the Social Gospel, Progressivism, and liberal Protestantism offered
tentative solutions to the dilemmas raised by Darwinism, higher
biblical criticism, and comparative religion; solutions that were not
to collapse until the end of World War One. Consequently, while

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s talks and information about the Bahá'í principles no
doubt encouraged and strengthened some thinkers, such as Guérard
and Cheyne, in their commitment to world peace or racial recon-
ciliation, His impact outside the Bahá'í community was necessarily
limited. This is especially true because, two years after His travels
in America, World War One erupted and forced most intellectuals
to reconsider their fundamental assumptions. Furthermore, the
Bahá'í principles of social reform can only be partially implemented
in a secular context; much of their efficacy depends on a strong and
numerically significant Bahá'í community, organized within the
Bahá'í administrative system.
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s visit greatly strengthened and deepened the American
Bahá'í community, which existed partially because the earlier Asian
teachers had pushed open the door to conversion to non-Christian
religions. When He arrived eighteen years after the founding of the
American Bahá'í community, there were between 1,500 and 3,000
American Bahá'ís—depending on whether one counts only the more
active followers or includes the more loosely attracted sympathiz-
ers—located in dozens of cities. This number may seem small, but
the 1916 United States religious census counted 86,000 Unitarians,
59,000 Universalists, 29,000 Spiritualists, 5,400 Theosophists, 2,900
Bahá'ís, and 190 Vedantists.16 In terms of attracting Americans of
European background, the Bahá'í Faith had done much better than
Hinduism, Buddhism, or Islam. Unlike those attracted to other
Asian religions, the Bahá'ís tended to be more economically diverse:
there were significant numbers of middle and working class Bahá'ís
and even several score African American members. As a result, when
`Abdu'l-Bahá arrived, there already were local Bahá'í communities
in place with the ability to organize numerous public and private
meetings—sometimes months in advance—publicize them through
the newspapers, and attract inquirers from among the rank and file
of the local population.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
The Bahá'ís in 1912 were not well organized and sometimes uncer-
tain whether they were a separate religious community or a leaven
destined to spread Bahá'í teachings within the existing churches.
This may be one reason why  `Abdu'l-Bahá’s visit did not produce
a great increase in dedicated followers. But it did bring in dozens
of committed Bahá'ís (notably Robert Abbott, Victoria Bedekian,
Howard Colby Ives, Ruth Moffett, Harry Randall, and Albert
Vail) who heard of the Faith during His visit. It transformed some
persons, such as Howard MacNutt and Agnes Parsons, who had
to change some of their fundamental attitudes as a result of His
visit. It strengthened the faith and devotion of some younger Bahá'ís,
such as Grace Robarts Ober, George Latimer, and Fred Mortensen.
It solidified the Bahá'í identity of many children of Bahá'ís, who
often considered 1912 to be the year they accepted Bahá'u'lláh. As
`Abdu'l-Bahá said, “I have planted the Seeds in America. You must
nurture them and care for them. If you do this, they will yield an abun-
dant harvest.”17 The direct impact of His visit on the strength of the
American Bahá’í community was notable for decades.
Ironically, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit also sharpened the division within the
American Bahá’í community between those who emphasized close
adherence to the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and the interpretations
of `Abdu’l-Bahá, and those who saw the Bahá’í Faith as a renewal
of existing metaphysical and mystical teachings. The latter tended
to relativize the Faith’s distinctive teachings and metaphorically
interpret or ignore the teachings they found distasteful or backward.
They seized on comments `Abdu’l-Bahá made in public talks and
to non-Bahá’ís that implied the Bahá’ís should not organize or
form a distinct community. Because they were often epistemological
individualists, they tended to oppose efforts to organize the Bahá’í
community by those who sought to follow `Abdu’l-Bahá’s guidance
closely. The tension resulted in several incidents of Covenant-breaking
before the decade was over and was not ultimately resolved until

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Shoghi Effendi began to implement the terms of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will
and Testament and build Bahá’í institutions in the 1920s.18
`Abdu'l-Bahá was very pleased by the way Americans received Him:
“In America . . . people are more spiritual, they seek the knowledge
of God, they hail the truth no matter from what quarter it comes.”19
Diary entries by His secretary, Mahmúd-i-Zarqání, record His
sometimes gleeful comments about how audiences responded to His
talks; His tablets often overflowed with pleasure; and He frequently
had His Persian secretaries send bundles of newspaper clippings
to Haifa or Iran so that others could share in His happiness. The
Persian pages of The Star of the West spread positive reports of His
trip throughout the Persian-speaking Bahá’í world. The confidence
and increased self esteem that such reports gave to the Bahá’ís of Iran
was of great significance.
The Hindu and Buddhist teachers to North America brought about
something similar in their home countries, although the home-
land responses to them can be divided into two types: internal to
their movement and external in their culture. Their travels often
solidified their own importance in their groups and strengthened
the group’s importance in their national cultures. Indian and Sri
Lankan newspapers followed their talks at the World’s Parliament
and their subsequent lecture tours. As a result, Vivekananda went
from a relatively unknown and untested leader of the Sri Ramak-
rishna Mission to the celebrated leader of one of India’s most
important Hindu modernizing groups, conjoining devotion to the
Vedas, ecstatic bhakti worship, and the creation of modern schools
and hospitals. Mozoomdar and Vivekananda became recognized as
fathers of Indian nationalism. Dharmapala became seen as the great
leader in Sri Lankan Buddhism, as one of the most internationally
important Buddhists of his day, and as a key figure in the revival of
Sri Lankan culture and nationalism.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to North America remained largely unknown to
Iranian non-Bahá’ís, but one can predict that its cultural importance
can only grow as more hear about it, read His talks, and come to
reiterate His teachings about the oneness of humanity, world peace,
equality of men and women, and universal human rights. Perhaps a
secularized narrative about `Abdu’l-Bahá will develop, just as one has
begun to form about the Bábí heroine Táhirih.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s trip to the western world, according to Shoghi
Effendi, was the “culmination” of His ministry and its “greatest
exploit.”20 The effect He had on the development of the American
Bahá'í community was considerable, but much of the impact will
be felt in the future, as the Bahá'í community continues to grow
and applies His teachings to the urgent problems facing humanity.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
NOTES
Star of the West, vol. 3, no. 8, page 22.
This number is arrived at by assuming 100 attendees in home meetings,
200 at hotel meetings, and 500 in churches. Published attendance
figures often exceed these figures, so the total may be low.
Bahá’u’lláh lists the importance of developing agriculture as His fifth
principle in the Lawh-i-Dunyá (Tablet of the World), but notes that
“although it hath been mentioned in the fifth place, unquestionably it
precedeth the others” (Baha’u’llah, Tablets of Baha’u’llah, p. 90). He
provides various lists of Bahá’í teachings or principles in His tablets of
Ishráqát, Tarázát, Tajallíyyát, Bishárát, but none of the lists correspond
closely to the lists `Abdu’l-Bahá gave in His talks in North America or
Europe.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Mahmúd’s Diary (Oxford: George Ronald,
1998), 381.
Promulgation of Universal Peace, 455, 457-58; Mahmúd-i-Zarqání,
Mahmúd’s Diary, 128, 135, 137, 166-67, 339-41, 346-47, 390.
Mahmúd-i-Zarqání, Mahmúd’s Diary, 127-28, 132, 167, 268, 277, 371,
392.
The travels of Sydney Sprague, Harlan Ober, Hooper Harris, Laura
Barney, Charles Mason Remey, and Howard Struven have been sum-
marized or mentioned in Robert H. Stockman, The Bahá’í Faith in
America, vol. 2: Early Expansion, 1900-1912 (Oxford: George Ronald,
1995).
Thornton Chase, “Impressions of `Abdu’l-Bahá and His Station,” comp.
Robert H. Stockman, World Order, vol. 25, no. 1 (Fall, 1993), 20.
Gayle Morrison, To Move the World: Louis G. Gregory and the Advance-
ment of Racial Unity in America (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1982), 67.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 280.
Sunrit Mullick, The First Hindu Mission to America: The Pioneering Vis-
its of Protap Chunder Mozoomdar (New Delhi: Northern Book Center,
2010) provides separate chapters on all three of his visits to the U.S.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
Carl T. Jackson, Vedanta for the West: The Ramakrishna Movement in
the United States (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1994), 108.
Star of the West, vol. 2, no. 17, p. 13.
William Ernest Hocking, “Recollections of Swami Vivekananda,”
quoted in Marie Louise Burke, Swami Vivekananda in the West: New
Discoveries: His Prophetic Mission, Part One, 4th ed. (Calcutta: Advaita
Ashrama, 1992), 117–18.
“MEMORIAL RESOLUTION: ALBERT LEON GUÉRARD
(1880–1959)” at http://histsoc.stanford.edu/pdfmem/GuerardAL.pdf;
“Telephone Conversation with Firuz Kazemzadeh, September 15, 2010,
32 minutes,” author’s personal papers; “Telephone Conversation with
Dr. Amin Banani, Tuesday, September 13, 2010; 21 minutes,” author’s
personal papers.
http://www2.census.gov/prod2/decennial/documents/00190404p1ch2.
pdf. The membership data was self reported to the Census Department.
Words of `Abdu’l-Bahá “to a little group of Americans in Paris” in 1913,
Star of the West, vol. 4, p. 256.
Peter Smith details these issues in his essay “The American Bahá’í
Community, 1893-1912: A Preliminary Survey,” in Moojan Momen,
Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 1 (Los Angeles: Kalimat Press,
1982), 225-53.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Star of the West, vol. 13, no. 9, p. 6.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 295. (GPB)

Authority and Centrality of
the Universal House of Justice1
7 April 2008
Transmitted by email
The Friends in Iran
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
Further to the letter to you of 18  February 2008 concerning the
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice, we have been
requested to provide the comments below on a related matter. It
seems that questions have arisen regarding the infallibility of the
House of Justice, in light of the presentation of the topic by Dr. Udo
Schaefer, a well-known Bahá’í in Germany, whose publications have
been translated and circulated in Iran.
In his book “Making the Crooked Straight” and in other publications,
Dr. Schaefer offers his personal views on infallibility as it pertains to
the Universal House of Justice. In an effort to defend the Faith and
explain the concept in a manner acceptable to a sceptical world, he
suggests that the infallibility of the House of Justice is confined to
the sphere of legislation. He argues further that, as far as he can dis-
cern, the House of Justice has legislated only a small number of times,
in each case, according to him, on an issue of “universal relevance”
through a decision-making process that did not need to draw on any
information obtained from fallible sources. Unfortunately, some
have taken his conclusions another step, suggesting that believers are
obliged to obey the House of Justice only in matters that fall within
the narrow range of such enactments.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
In general, the House of Justice wishes to preserve the widest pos-
sible latitude for the friends to explore the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
and to share their individual understanding of the Teachings. Yet it
must be remembered that, with regard to deductions drawn from the
Texts, the Master clearly states:
…the deductions and conclusions of individual learned men
have no authority, unless they are endorsed by the House
of Justice. The difference is precisely this, that from the
conclusions and endorsements of the body of the House
of Justice whose members are elected by and known to the
worldwide Bahá’í community, no differences will arise;
whereas the conclusions of individual divines and scholars
would definitely lead to differences, and result in schism,
division, and dispersion. The oneness of the Word would
be destroyed, the unity of the Faith would disappear, and
the edifice of the Faith of God would be shaken.
The Universal House of Justice does not intend at this time to elaborate
further on previous explanations given of its duties and powers. That
the House of Justice itself does not find it necessary to do so should
alert the friends as to the unwisdom of their attempting to define so
precisely its sphere of action. Nevertheless, it should be mentioned
that, while there are explicit passages in the authoritative texts that
make reference to the infallibility of the  House of Justice in the
enactment of legislation, the argument that it is free from error only
in this respect is untenable. Surely, the many emphatic statements
found in the Writings, such as the following excerpt from the Will
and Testament of `Abdu’l-Bahá, should suffice to dismiss any claims
of this kind:

Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
The sacred and youthful branch, the guardian of the Cause
of God as well as the Universal House of Justice, to be uni-
versally elected and established, are both under the care and
protection of the Abhá Beauty, under the shelter and unerr-
ing guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One (may my life
be offered up for them both). Whatsoever they decide is of
God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth them, hath
not obeyed God; whoso rebelleth against him and against
them hath rebelled against God; whoso opposeth him hath
opposed God; whoso contendeth with them hath contended
with God….
Apart from the question of infallibility, there is the matter of author-
ity. A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “It is not for
individual believers to limit the sphere of the Guardian’s authority,
or to judge when they have to obey the Guardian and when they are
free to reject his judgement. Such an attitude would evidently lead to
confusion and to schism.” In regard to the Universal House of Justice,
the same understanding applies.
Infallibility is a profound spiritual concept inherent in the Bahá’í
Writings. In meditating upon the relevant passages, the believers will
naturally reach their own understanding of the subject. Individual
opinions, however, should not be imposed on others, nor so promoted
as to crystallize into doctrines not found in the explicit Text. When
exchanging views about the Universal House of Justice—the body to
which all things must be referred—the friends should exercise care
lest they go to extremes, by either diminishing its station or assigning
to it exaggerated attributes. What better admonition to heed in a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
matter of this nature than that given by the beloved Master, when
some believers fell into disagreement about His own station:
These discussions will yield no result or benefit: we must set
all such debates and controversies entirely aside—nay, we
must consign them to oblivion and arise to accomplish that
which is enjoined and required in this Day. These debates are
mere words bereft of inner meaning; they are mere illusions
and not reality.
That which is true and real is this: that we become united and
agreed in our purpose and arise to flood this darksome world
with light, to banish enmity and foreignness from among the
children of men, to perfume and revive the world with the
sanctified breezes of the character and conduct of the Abhá
Beauty, to cast the light of divine guidance upon East and
West, to raise the tabernacle of the love of God and gather
all people under its sheltering shadow, to confer peace and
composure upon every soul beneath the shade of the blessed
Tree, to show forth such love as to astonish the enemy, to
turn ravenous and bloodthirsty wolves into the gazelles of
the meadows of the love of God, to cause the oppressor to
taste the sweet savour of meekness, to teach them that kill
the submission and acquiescence of those that suffer them-
selves to be killed, to spread abroad the verses of the one true
God, to extol the virtues and perfections of the all-glorious
Lord, to raise to the highest heaven the cry of “O Thou the
Glory of Glories!”, and to cause the call of “The earth will
shine with the light of her Lord!”2 to reach the ears of the
denizens of His Kingdom.

Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
The House of Justice appeals to the friends not to become embroiled
in the kind of fruitless theological discussions that caused conflict
and contention in past dispensations, lest they lose sight of their
responsibility to promulgate the oneness of humanity and of the role
of the Covenant established by Bahá’u’lláh in uniting minds, hearts,
and souls.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

Baha'i World Center
cc: International Teaching Centre
Counsellor Jabbar Eidelkhani




NOTES
This is the English version of a letter written on behalf of the Universal House
of Justice in Persian to the Friends in Iran. This replaces its courtesy translation
which was available in 2010 and was previously published in the Elucidation
section of the Lights of `Irfán, Book Eleven.
Qur’án 39:69.

Memorandum
To:
Universal House of Justice
Date: 	 22 February 1998
From: 	 Research Department
Whether the Apostle Paul was a “False Teacher”
The Research Department has studied the query contained in the
email of 8 December 1997 to the Baha’i World Centre from Mr. ….
Mr. … states that “some years ago” he read a letter in The American
Bahá’í, which quoted from a statement of the Research Department
concerning the Apostle Paul. He recalls that this statement “covered
references in the Baha’i Writings to Paul and noted that there was
no support for the view that Paul was a ‘false teacher’”. Mr. … is
requesting a copy of this statement by the Research Department.
It seems likely to us that the letter which Mr. … recalls reading is
the one published in the “Letters” section of The American Bahá’í, 4
November 1992, volume 23, number 16, page 11. We have attached
a photocopy of this page for his convenience and note that in the
letter to the editor in question, the writer introduces the term “false
teacher” in his introductory remarks; it does not appear in any of the
material he quotes. It is also important to clarify that the writer is
quoting (with some inaccuracy) a reference to the Research Depart-
ment in a letter dated 25 November 1980 written on behalf of the
Universal House of Justice.
Regarding Mr. …’s request, therefore, it seems appropriate to provide
him with an extract from the House of Justice’s letter cited above
which contains the reference to the Research Department and the
full text of the discussion of Peter and Paul. For clarity, we have

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
preceded this extract by the incoming query to which this discussion
is a response. Thus:
Incoming Query from an individual:
Also I would like to know if there is any statement in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh, `Abdu’l-Bahá or the letters of the
Guardian that state that Saint Paul “usurped the station
of Peter, and that Saint Paul completely “changed the basic
message of Jesus Christ.” This is the substance of a section
of a book recently published by George Ronald Pub. Co….
Response of the Universal House of Justice
Concerning the relationship of St. Peter and St. Paul, the
Research Department has found nothing in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, `Abdu’l-Bahá or the Guardian which states that
St. Paul “usurped the station of Peter” or that he “completely
changed the basic message of Christ.”
Of St. Peter, the beloved Guardian has written:
…let it be stated without any hesitation or equivocation
that… the primacy of Peter, the Prince of the apostles, is
upheld and defended. (The Promised Day is Come,1 p. 109)
…Peter is recognized as one whom God has caused “the
mysteries of wisdom and of utterance to flow out of his
mouth.” (The Promised Day is Come,2 p. 110)
Now with regard to your questions. First concerning the statement of
Jesus Christ “Thou art Peter and upon this rock…”: this saying of Jesus
establishes beyond any doubt the primacy of Peter and also the prin-
ciple of succession, but is not explicit enough regarding the nature and
functioning of the Church itself. The Catholics have read too much
into that statement, and derived from it certain conclusions which are

Whether the Apostle Paul was a “False Teacher”
quite unjustifiable. (From a letter dated 7 September 1938 written on
behalf of the Guardian to an individual believer)
Bahá’u’lláh Himself has testified that the original Message of Jesus
has not been lost. You are undoubtedly familiar with the passage on
page 89 of the Kitáb-i-Íqán ,3 where He states:
We have also heard a number of the foolish of the earth assert
that the genuine text of the heavenly Gospel doth not exist
amongst the Christians, that it hath ascended unto heaven.
How grievously they have erred! How oblivious of the fact that
such a statement imputeth the gravest injustice and tyranny
to a gracious and living Providence! How could God, when
once the daystar of the beauty of Jesus had disappeared from
the sight of His people, and ascended unto the fourth heaven,
cause His holy Book, His most great testimony amongst His
creatures, to disappear also? What would be left to that peo-
ple to cling to from the setting of the daystar of Jesus until the
rise of the sun of the Muhammadan Dispensation?
In is indisputable, however, that many erroneous teachings have
entered into Christianity, obscured the pure Gospel and caused
disunity and schism. This is explained by the Guardian on pages 20
and 21 of the compilation entitled The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
where he points out that
…the fundamental reason why the unity of the Church of
Christ was irretrievably shattered, and its influence was in
the course of time undermined, was that the Edifice which
the Fathers of the Church reared after the passing of His
First Apostle was an Edifice that rested in no wise upon the
explicit directions of Christ Himself.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
It is also undeniable that St. Peter had to face many problems in his
own lifetime. On page 145 of The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, the
Guardian writes:
Could Peter, the admitted chief of the Apostles, or the Imám
Alí, the cousin and legitimate successor of the Prophet, pro-
duce in support of the primacy with which both had been
invested written and explicit affirmations from Christ and
Muhammad that could have silenced those who either
among their contemporaries or in a later age have repudiated
their authority and, by their action, precipitated the schisms
that persist until the present day?
That St. Paul on occasion disputed with St. Peter is seen from St.
Paul’s own words in the Epistle to the Galatians, 2:11–14. It is also
St. Paul who mentions early divisions among the Christians, which
he endeavours to heal, in I Corinthians 1:11–13. St. Peter’s attitude
to St. Paul appears in II Peter 3:15–18.
In considering the relationship between St. Peter and St. Paul, one
needs to bear in mind all of these various factors. High praise in
accorded to them both in the Bahá’í Writings. A particularly per-
tinent statement by `Abdu’l-Bahá appears on page 223 of the new
publication Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá:4
One's conduct must be like the conduct of Paul, and one's
faith similar to that of Peter (25 February 1980 written on
behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual)
Mr. … may also find of interest the following extract from a letter
written by the Universal House of Justice regarding whether Paul
was a “Covenant-breaker”:

Whether the Apostle Paul was a “False Teacher”
Your letter… concerning the question of Saint Paul as an
alleged  Covenant-breaker  doubtless arises from the com-
ments of those who seek to compare the evolution of early
Christianity with the origins of the Bahá’í Faith.
You are correct in noting such questions from the Writings as
the one cited from the Tablets of `Abdu’l-Bahá Abbás, which
confirm the high rank of the Apostle Paul in the Christian
Dispensation.5 Indeed, while there is no doubt that the Bahá’í
teachings uphold the primacy of Peter (see The Promised Day
is Come, page 113)6 we know of no text stating that Paul was
a Covenant-breaker. We have heard of a pilgrim's note to this
effect, but it cannot be given credence in the absence of any
validation. (13 August 1972 to an individual believer)
NOTES
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
Ibid.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
sec. 189) Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
“Physical nearness or remoteness is of no importance; the essential fact is the
spiritual affinity and ideal nearness. Judas Iscariot was for a long time favored in
the holy court of His Holiness Christ, yet he was entirely far and remote; while
Paul, the apostle, was in close embrace with His Holiness.” (Tablets of `Abdu’l-
Bahá Abbás, vol. 3 (New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, pp. 719–20.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1941.

Memorandum
To:
The Universal House of Justice
Date: 	 2 April 2012
From:  	 Research Department
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based religions in
the Americas
The Research Department has studied a number of questions
regarding the religion of the Sabaeans, and African-based religions
in the Americas such as Yoruba, Santería and Brazilian Candomble.
Religion of the Sabaeans
The Bahá’í Teachings contain few references to Sabaeanism.
Bahá’u’lláh, in His Tablets in the Persian language, describes two
different groups as Sabaeans. They are:
1.
the followers of an ancient religion who worship idols named
after stars and who claim to have taken their religion from Seth
and Idrís
2.	 the followers of John the Baptist who failed to recognize Jesus
as the Manifestation of God. He further states that this group
is known to some as the Sabaeans and that it continues to exist
in the world.
Some scholars also refer to the followers of John the Baptist as the
Mandaeans. Currently, there are small communities of Mandaeans
living in Iraq and Iran.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
As to the Sabaeans who claim to derive their religion from Seth and
Idrís, the Research Department has, to date, been able to locate only
one additional brief reference in the Bahá’í Writings to Seth. In
The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by `Abdu’l-Bahá
during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912 (Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2007), p. 516, the Master describes Seth as
one of the “sons of Adam”.
There are, however, two very interesting references to Idrís contained
in a footnote which appears on p. 148 of Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed
after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988).
One is a quotation from the Qur’án 19:57–58, which states:
And commemorate Idrís in the Book; for he was a man of
truth, a Prophet; And we uplifted him to a place on high.
The second is a statement by Bahá’u’lláh in which He identifies Idrís
with Hermes:
The first person who devoted himself to philosophy was Idrís.
Thus was he named. Some called him also Hermes. In every
tongue he hath a special name. He it is who hath set forth
in every branch of philosophy thorough and convincing state-
ments. After him Balínús derived his knowledge and sciences
from the Hermetic Tablets and most of the philosophers
who followed him made their philosophical and scientific
discoveries from his words and statements.
The connection between Idrís and Sabaeanism is interesting because
it confirms not only the extreme antiquity of this group of Sabaeans,
but also the fact that knowledge of the religion has spread over the
earth—Bahá’u’lláh affirms concerning Idrís, “In every tongue he
hath a special name”. It should be noted, however, that Bahá’u’lláh
does not specifically name Idrís as the Prophet of the Sabaeans.

The Religion of the Sabaeans
In letters written on his behalf, cited below, Shoghi Effendi stresses
the general lack of conclusive historical records concerning the origins
of the Sabaean religion:
Regarding Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s statement in his book The
Bahá’í Proofs to the effect that the great religions of the world,
excluding the Dispensations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, are
seven in number: what the author meant by that statement
is that there are only seven great religions of which there
is some existing trace or record, and not that only seven
religions have so far appeared in the world. These seven
religions mentioned by Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl are the following:
Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism, Christi-
anity, Islam, and the religion of the Sabaeans, which was
originally monotheistic, and became gradually corrupted,
and to which Abraham’s forefathers are believed to have
belonged. (letter dated 9 July 1939 to an individual believer)
As to the religion of the Sabaeans, very little is known about
the origins of this religion, though we Bahá’ís are certain of
one thing, that the founder of it has been a divinely-sent Mes-
senger. The country where Sabaeanism became widespread and
flourished was Chaldea, and Abraham is considered as having
been a follower of that Faith. (letter dated 10 November 1939
to an individual believer)
With reference to your question concerning the Sabaean and
Hindu religions: there is nothing in the Teachings that could
help us in ascertaining which one of these two Faiths is older.
Neither history seems to be able to provide a definite answer
to this question. The records concerning the origin of these
religions are not sufficiently detailed and reliable to offer any
conclusive evidence on this point. (letter dated 9 November
1940 to an individual believer)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The teachings throw no light on the Prophet of the Sabaeans.
The followers of this religion lived in Ur of the Chaldees,
where Abraham appeared. (letter dated 30 July 1941 to an
individual believer)
For more information on this subject, Mr. … is also referred to
the writings of Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl, specifically, The Bahá’í Proofs
(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983), and an article entitled
“Explanation of Daniel’s Interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar’s
Dream” which is published in Star of the West, April 28, 1916, vol.
VII, no. 3, pp. 17–24.
In relation to the second group, that is the followers of John the Bap-
tist or the Mandeans, Bahá’u’lláh states that this group continues to
exist in the world. Further historical and archaeological research will,
no doubt, be required to corroborate the link between Sabaeanism
and traditional African beliefs.
African-based religions in the Americas
Mr. … enquires whether the Bahá’í Writings comment on the
immense popularity and current explosive growth of these Yoruba-
based religions in the New World and he asks about the Bahá’í view
of the “possession” that takes place during the ceremonies that invoke
the Yoruba “Orishas” (spirits, “gods”).
While we have not found any specific reference to these religious
movements in the writings of the Faith, Mr. … might well be inter-
ested in Shoghi Effendi’s discussion of the “universal fermentation”
that characterizes the “Age of Transition”, one feature of which is the
decline in recognized religions and the subsequent “emergence of an
increasing number of obscure cults, of strange and new worships, of
ineffective philosophies, whose sophisticated doctrines have intensified
the confusion of a troubled age.”1

The Religion of the Sabaeans
As to the Bahá’í view of the “possession” that takes place during
Yoruba ceremonies and other such “supernatural” phenomena, Mr.
… might find it useful to refer to Some Answered Questions, page 252.
`Abdu’l-Bahá indicates that, in general, the “converse, presence and
communications of spirits is but imagination and fancy, which only
appears to have reality”. The Universal House of Justice in a letter
dated 30 August 1984 written on its behalf to an individual believer
provides the following guidance concerning the attitude toward the
“psychic arts” of other people:
The important thing for Bahá’ís to understand is that the
influence of such “arts” is dependent on the conviction, even
the sub-conscious conviction, of the person affected and,
similarly, the power of the “priests” to overcome the influence
is likewise an outcome of the sufferer’s conviction that it is
from the “priest” that he or she will be able to obtain help.
We wish to draw Mr. …’s attention to the following extracts, drawn
from letters written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi and the Universal
House of Justice, which summarize the Bahá’í teachings on this topic:
We must use the Writings of the Prophets as our measure-
ment. If Bahá’u’lláh had attached the slightest importance
to occult experiences, to the seeing of auras, to the hearing
of mystic voices; if He had believed that reincarnation was a
fact, He, Himself, would have mentioned all of these things
in His Teachings. The fact that He passed over them in
silence shows that to Him, they had either no importance
or no reality, and were consequently not worthy to take
up His time as the Divine Educator of the human race.
We must turn our faces away from these things, and toward
the actual practice of His Teachings in our everyday life
through our Bahá’í Administration, and in our contact

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
with other people and the examples we give. (From a letter
dated 22 April 1954 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to
an individual believer)
While such accounts are interesting and provoke one’s
curiosity, we have no way of checking the veracity of such
experiences. Shoghi Effendi has advised in his letters to the
friends who asked him about psychic powers that we do not
understand the nature of such phenomena, that we have no
way of being sure of what is true and what is false, that very
little is known about the mind and its workings, and that we
should endeavour to avoid giving undue consideration to such
matters. (From a letter dated 16 May 1985 written on behalf
of the Universal House of Justice to an individual believer)

The Religion of the Sabaeans
NOTES
See The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters (Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1991), pp. 170–186.

Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Question
What is meant by Bahá›í Court (in the Writings of the Guardian)?
What is “Mahkamiy-i- Kubra” mentioned in the Writings and how
does it differ from the Universal House of Justice? Is it the same as
the General Assembly of the United Nations or it will be one of the
organs of the Bahá›í Administrative Order?
Answer
1. Regarding the Supreme Tribunal or the Supreme Court (Mah-
kamiy-i-Kubra), this term is used in Bahá’í Writings with different
connotations.  Sometimes it is a reference to the institutions of the
Lesser Peace. (For example in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet to Dr. Forel, He
outlines the method which could be followed at such a time).
At other times, however, when the context is the Bahá’í World
Commonwealth, the World Tribunal becomes one of the principal
organs, operating under the Universal House of Justice. That would
be in the Golden Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation.
A study of the Constitution of the Universal House of Justice will
show you that in its Declaration of Trust, five paragraphs are devoted
to describe the powers and duties of the Supreme Body. The last
paragraph consists of its judicial authority.  It is this authority that it
will transfer to the World Tribunal of the Great Peace, and then of
the Most Great Peace.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
There is yet another application of the term “court” in the writings of
Shoghi Effendi.
You find this explained in “The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” page
200. You will also find reference to such courts in the goals of the
Ten Year Crusade—both internationally and nationally— for
countries in the East, where religious courts (for Jews, Christians
and Muslims) had been established during the Ottoman Rule.  This
region included Palestine—later carried over by Israel.
This was why Shoghi Effendi anticipated that the International
Bahá’í Council would become such a religious Bahá’í court for Israel,
if circumstances permitted.  On the national level, the National
Assembly of the country would become such a Bahá’í religious court
but this has not yet materialized.
Ali Nakhjavani
March 14, 2012

In Memoriam


Ian Chalmers Semple (December 2, 1928–December 1, 2011) was
a member of the Universal House of Justice, the supreme govern-
ing body of the Bahá’í Faith, from 1963 to 2005. Mr. Semple was
a popular speaker and delivered any number of well-researched and
elucidating talks on key topics related to fundamental Bahá’í tenets
at various Bahá’í gatherings. He was a sincere supporter of the `Irfán
Colloquium and a valuable contributor to the Lights of `Irfán. The
texts of some of his talks are published in Books Six, Nine, Ten and
Twelve, of the Lights of `Irfán. In addition the texts of the following
talks are published in other sources:
Interpretation and the Guardianship, a talk given at a seminar
in Haifa on 18 February 1984.
Obedience, a talk given on 26 July 1991 in the Reception
Concourse of the Seat of the House of Justice in the Spiritual
Enrichment Program.
Knowledge and the Covenant, a talk given at the Conference
on Knowledge and Scholarship on 5–6 December 1997 in
the U.K.
From the Tablets of the Divine Plan to the Ridván Mes-
sage 2007, a talk given at the Swiss Winter School 25–30
December 2007

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
The International Bahá’í Council and the Universal House of
Justice, a talk given at the Changing Times Conference in the
Czech Republic in December 2008
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, a talk given at the Changing
Times Conference in the Czech Republic in December 2008
Mr. Semple was born in New Barnet, England, U. K. He did his
national service in the British Army, during which period he earned
a commission in the Royal Corps of Signals. Mr. Semple studied at
Pembroke College, Oxford University, obtaining a BA degree in Ger-
man and French Languages and Literature in 1952, and an MA degree
in 1955. He subsequently studied accounting in the City of London,
qualifying as a Chartered Accountant in 1955, becoming a Fellow of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
In 1950, the last year of the British Bahá’í community’s Six Year
Plan, Mr. Semple embraced Bahá’í Faith and joined British Bahá’í
community and served as an active member of a number of the
National Committees for the next several years. In 1956 he was elected
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the British Isles
and served as its secretary. In 1957 he was appointed as a member of
the Auxiliary Board in Europe with particular responsibility for the
north of England, Scotland, Norway and Sweden. In 1961 he was
elected to the International Bahá’í Council, and moved his residence
to Haifa. In 1963 he was elected to the Universal House of Justice
and served in that capacity until 2005. After retirement, Ian moved
to Bulle, Switzerland, where many members of his family live. He
is survived by his wife Louise, whom he married in 1963, two sons,
Michael and Nick, and a daughter, Jenny.
The sad news of the sudden passing of Mr. Ian Semple was announced
by the Universal House of Justice to the Bahá’ís of the world in the
following message:

In Memoriam
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE
Bahá’í World Centre • P.O. Box 155 • 31001 Haifa, Israel
Transmitted by email
TO: All National Spiritual Assemblies
DATE: 1 December 2011
MESSAGE:
Our hearts are laden with sorrow at the passing to the Abhá King-
dom of our dearly loved former colleague Ian C. Semple, staunch,
clear-sighted, outstanding servant of the Blessed Beauty. Having
embraced the Cause of God in the prime of his youth while at uni-
versity, he devoted his considerable energies, eloquent pen and keen
intellect to its protection and to the promotion of its vital interests
throughout the rest of his life. A distinguished record of six decades
of uninterrupted labour in the Divine Vineyard included service as a
member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the British Isles, of the
Auxiliary Board for Propagation in Europe and of the International
Bahá’í Council, and culminated in forty-two years of membership of
the Universal House of Justice from its establishment in 1963 until
2005. The shining qualities of his being, his immense courtesy,
surpassing humility, purity of heart, irrepressible joy and unfailing
optimism—all born of an unshakeable faith in the Word of God
and its capacity to redeem humankind—endeared him to everyone
who had the privilege of knowing him.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
We extend our loving sympathy to his beloved wife, Louise, to his dear
children, Michael, Nicholas and Jennifer, and to his grandchildren for
the loss they have sustained and pray for the bounties of God to
surround them. May Ian’s valiant soul receive a joyous welcome in
the celestial realms above and be richly rewarded for his fealty and his
exemplary dedication to duty. We call upon the friends everywhere
to hold memorial gatherings in his honour, including befitting com-
memorative services in the Houses of Worship throughout the world.

The Universal House of Justice

Appendices

Appendices
Abbreviations Used in this Book
abl
`Abdu’l-Bahá.`Abdu’l-Bahá in London
adj
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice
aro
Arohanui: Letters from Shoghi Effendi to New Zealand
cc
Compilation of Compilations volumes 1-3
esw
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
fwu
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity
gpb
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
gwb
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
hw
Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words
ka
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas
ki
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Íqán
muhj
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-86
pb
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
pba
Compilation. Principles of Bahá’í Administration
pdc
Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day Is Come
pm
Bahá’u’lláh. Prayers and Meditations
pt
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks
pup
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace
sdc
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization
slh
Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts
sv
Bahá’u’lláh. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
sw
Star of the West
swab `Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá
swb
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb
tab
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1–3
tb
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
tdp
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of the Divine Plan
wob
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
wt
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

See a complete list of abbreviations at
http://bahai-library.com/abbreviations_bahai_writings

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Previous Volumes  of Lights of ‘Irfán

Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi

Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar

Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization

Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation

Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith

Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án
and in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory:
A Summary of Glorious Revelation

William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind

Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology

Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh

Peter Terry
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and
Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)

Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb

Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity

William Barnes

Appendices
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)

Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude

Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective

Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God

Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith

LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-
i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three Versions of
Provisional English Translations

Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation

Moojan Momen
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul

Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language,
Revelation and Scholarship

Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys

Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology

Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart:
The Hidden Essence of God’s Word

LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God

Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen

Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn

William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order

Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community

Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation

Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method

Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East

Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices

Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh

James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China

Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid

Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-i-
Haykal)

Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism

Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg

Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh

Stephen Lambden

Appendices
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on
Human Nature and Leadership

Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion

Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation

Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select Persianate
and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey

Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)

James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III

Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living

Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá

Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women of
Ibn-i Asdaq’s household

Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án Commen-
taries of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1850-1853)

Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin

Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration

Ian Kluge

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne and
Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture

Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán

Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History

Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel

Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths

Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind

Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s
System of Integral Philosophy

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance

Ian Kluge
`Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity

Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education

Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship

Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by `Abdu’l-Bahá

James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith

Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism

Enoch Tanyi

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization

J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship

Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1854-1876)

Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources

Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings

B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology

Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity
of Humankind

Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective

Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
Excerpts from the Persian Bayán

James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)

Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials

Youli Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
Mysticism East and West

Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement

Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist

Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi

Jack McLean
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice:
A Provisional Translation and Commentary

Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant

Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective

Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional
Translation and Commentary

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts from the
Writings of Shoghi Effendi

James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research Department;
Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos

Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”

Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One

Ian Kluge

Appendices
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two

Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the Word

Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies

Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison

Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains

Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif

Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif

trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice

Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An Exposition
on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice

James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat

Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science

Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

Mona Khademi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings
and Neurocardiology

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective

Ian Kluge.
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of
Some Answered Questions

Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: `Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution

Ramin Neshati.
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures

Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice

'Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)

Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works

Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a Letter
from Shoghi Effendi

Gerald Keil
The Path of God

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)

Moojan Momen

Appendices
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation

Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná‘

Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensibility of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs

Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact

Amin Egea
The Essence of Man

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Baha'i Faith, Part II

Ian Kluge
Preparing Baha’i Communities to Embrace Gender Equality

Baharieh Rohani Ma'ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Bab

Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers

Julio Savi
May flowers in the Ville Lumière

Julio Savi
The indispensability of Consultation

Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity

James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Issues
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword

Ali Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas

Moojan Momen

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of `Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia (in English), Books One to Book Eleven, 2000 - 2012
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safini-yi Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Col-
loquia (in Persian). Books one to Book Thirteen, 1998 - 2012
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany:
Bahá’í Verlag, 2004 - 2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, 2004
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation (Darmsdat, Germany:
Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalil-i Áftáb, The proof of the Sun is the Sun (Darmsdat,
Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)

Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950
Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag  (For German Publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921
Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Bosch Bahá’í School, Bookshop

500 Comstock Lane, Santa Cruz, CA 95060–9677
Tel.: (831) 423-3387
Fax: (831) 423-7564
E-mail: bosch@usbnc.org
Donya Co.
219 Marina Center, Suisun, CA 94585
Tel: 707-426-4400
Fax: 707-426-4600
E-Mail: sales@Donyaco.com
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293 Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170
Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de