THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1997-03-11

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

with joyful and thankful hearts we announce the successful acquisition

after many years of difficult negotiations and the subsequent demolition a

few days ago of the building which stood as the last obstacle to the comple-tion of the first two terraces of the Shrine of the báb at the foot of mount

carmel.

245

Role of National Spiritual Assembly in Private

Businesses Run by Bahá’ís

17 m arcH 1997

The National Spiritual Assembly of the b ahá’ís of New z ealand

dear b ahá’í f riends,

1997 and has asked us to respond as follows.

The house of justice commends you for the careful thought you have

given to the issues raised about the relationship between the institutions of

the faith and those business enterprises which appear to be helpful in the

attainment of bahá’í objectives. your account of the present understanding

of the National Spiritual Assembly indicates that you are in a good position

to offer suitable guidance to any believers who have concerns over these

matters.

in drawing attention to private businesses set up by believers, and in

encouraging the b ahá’ís to give serious consideration to availing themselves

of such services, a National Assembly should not be regarded as endorsing

these businesses, if that is understood to imply some form of guarantee about the efficacy of the service provided by any such business. The analogy of the books produced by bahá’í publishers used in your letter is quite apt;

in publicizing a book or article from such a publisher, there is no implicit 244.1

245.1

245.2

245.3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

56assurance that the document is free from error or even that the National

Assembly is entirely in agreement with every point made therein. however

the National Assembly can well conclude that the product of  a business

conducted by bahá’ís (or even non-b ahá’ís) is useful in the advancement

of the interests of the faith and can properly decide to convey information

about it to the believers.

T urning now to your question about a development trust becoming

involved in the establishment of private business enterprises, no general ruling is appropriate at this stage in the development of the faith. every

case should be considered on its merits. There is a vast difference between

the institutions of the faith becoming involved in a private business set up

with the principal purpose being simply the accumulation of profit, and the

institutions fostering and supporting individual and group business initia-

tive aimed at the uplifting of people who have historically been deprived or

suppressed. other factors to be considered include the stage of development

of the bahá’í community, the resources at its disposal, the preservation of

its reputation and the legal restrictions imposed by its incorporation. As

specific matters arise in the future, you are welcome to turn to the house of

justice for guidance on issues you feel unable to resolve through your own

consultation or through advice from the counselors.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

246

Music and Dance at Bahá’í Centers

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]