THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-07-02

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dearly loved f riends,

T wenty-five years have now elapsed since the establishment of the

international Teaching center announced in our message of 5 june

1973.275-1 These years have seen the progressive unfoldment of the duties of

this cardinal institution of the cause of god, and the development of its

the continental boards of counselors on the other. during the five years

just completed, it exercised increased responsibility in relation to the protec-tion of the faith. it stimulated pioneering and travel-teaching, as well as

the production and distribution of literature and audiovisual aids and, after the launching of the four year plan, it imparted a fundamental impetus to

the establishment and sound functioning of training institutes. Suffusing all these activities has been its continuous interaction with the continental

boards of counselors, through whom its influence and encouragement have

reached all levels and every area of the b ahá’í world community.

on 23 may 1998 the international Teaching center entered upon a five-

year period full of promise for the speedy advancement of the process of entry by troops into the cause of bahá’u’lláh. on the morning of Saturday

13 june, the newly appointed members having arrived from their far-flung

homelands, all the counselor members of the Teaching center met in bahjí

with the hands of the cause of god Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih khánum and

prayer at the Sacred Threshold of the Shrine of bahá’u’lláh. There followed

a week of intense consultation and preparation for the next phase of their

work, focused on the prosecution of the second half of the f our y ear p lan.

it is our ardent prayer in the holy Shrines that as the edifices which are

the Seats of the institutions of the faith at its world center rise before

the public gaze on the slope of mount carmel, and the influence of the

275-1. muhj, no. 131.275.1

275.2

275.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

62institutions of its Administrative order becomes more potent in every land,

so the ears of mankind will become attuned to the glorious message which

the devoted followers of bahá’u’lláh are proclaiming and, on every side, the

spiritually thirsty masses will rally to h is banner.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

276

Execution of Bahá’í in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]