THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1991-04-03

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

further to the ri¤ván 1991 message which has already been mailed to

lowing advice and information with regard to the forthcoming h oly y ear.

you are already aware of the two major events of the year: the commemo-

rative gathering in the holy land during may 1992 to mark the 100th an-

niversary of the Ascension of bahá’u’lláh, and the world congress in New

york during November 1992 to celebrate the centenary of the inauguration

of his covenant. As the time draws closer, you will be receiving more and

more communications from the various agencies acting on behalf of the house of justice in making preparations for these events. To prevent confu-

sion and to enable you to respond effectively to these communications, the

house of justice suggests that, if you have not already done so, you appoint

an active, efficient and reliable individual or small committee to study these

communications on your behalf, keep you thoroughly informed of their

contents and requirements, and assist you to coordinate your responses and

to take timely and necessary actions in relation to your community.

As was pointed out in the ri¤ván 1990 message,

107-2 the two major events

being planned should not be the only commemorative activities of the holy

107-1. See no. 109, pp. 203–5.

107-2. See no. 91, p. 168.106.1

107 .1

107 .2

107 .3

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

195year; indeed, the entire bahá’í world at its local and national levels will

engage in activities appropriate to the purposes of the holy year. it is impor-

tant that throughout this period the attitude of the friends in all localities

reflects the significance of the two occasions to be commemorated.

for the observance of the first occasion, the centenary of bahá’u’lláh’s

passing, you will want to make sure that a proper devotional program takes

place in each locality, at the appropriate time on 29 may, and that the best

effort is made to uphold the preeminent importance, the dignity and the

profoundly spiritual character of the occasion, to which non-b ahá’ís may be

invited according to the discretion of the Spiritual Assemblies. To support

your preparations and to unite the hearts and experience of the believers

worldwide, the house of justice will soon be sending to you the sacred

readings which have been selected for the gathering at the most holy Shrine

on that occasion. beyond these devotional programs, the friends may plan

to hold other special events—national, regional or local—for the benefit of both themselves and non-b ahá’ís, to give a more public character to the

observance of this anniversary and at which informative and inspirational

presentations on the life and teachings of bahá’u’lláh can be made and dis-

cussions held.

for the second commemoration, communities everywhere, at local, re-

gional and national levels, should plan to hold events in relation to the world congress. Some of these may be held at the same time as the world

congress, some at other times. whatever the decision of the Spiritual As-

semblies, the events should have the same objective as the w orld congress,

which is to celebrate the centenary of the inauguration of the covenant of

bahá’u’lláh and to proclaim its aims and unifying power. The prospect of

such events should encourage the friends to study the history and meaning

of the covenant; in such study, the continental counselors, the Auxiliary

board members and their assistants will, no doubt, be sources of encourage-ment, stimulation and assistance.

celebration in this connection does not mean merely festive activities.

it is primarily a spiritual celebration that is called for: occasions for deep

reflection on the historic importance, the uniqueness, the meaning and the efficacy of the covenant established by bahá’u’lláh, on the outstanding

results of its influence in raising up a worldwide community comprising a

great diversity of members, and on the triumph of its virtue as a unifying

power. At the heart of such reflection will be contemplation of the peer-less purpose, magnetic person, luminous character and exemplary acts of 107 .4

107 .5

107 .6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

196‘Abdu’l-b ahá in his station as the center and living embodiment of the

covenant of bahá’u’lláh. consciousness of the exceptional and glorious

stage in humanity’s spiritual evolution initiated by the covenant, the awe

such consciousness inspires and the thankful gladness it induces are of the

essence of the celebration intended by the world congress and all other

events associated with this centenary. A major purpose of these events will

therefore be to evoke this solemn consciousness, which is itself the well-

spring of the most exquisite celebratory joy. in this spirit the commemora-

tive activities around the world should acclaim and proclaim the covenant

as the pivotal center of unity for all humankind and illustrate its dynamic

effect on the struggle, the spread, and the redemptive achievements of the

bahá’í community since the passing of the b lessed b eauty.

you will undoubtedly appreciate that publicity through the mass media

should be incorporated into your plans for the holy year. All suitable and

available creative resources—writers, artists, composers, musicians, poets, public information experts—should be called to the aid of the community, so as to imbue its plans with the most effective and attractive variety of

expression. The world center will be interested in learning of these plans

as they are developed, so that news of them might be shared with others.

An important feature of the activities of the holy year will be the widest

possible proclamation of the Name of bahá’u’lláh; care must, of course,

be exercised in all situations to uphold the dignity of this Name. As an as-

sistance to your efforts, a statement on bahá’u’lláh has been prepared, at the

request of the house of justice, by the office of public information at the

bahá’í w orld center. w e are happy to enclose a copy.

bearing the title Bahá’u’lláh, the statement is intended primarily for wide

distribution to the public; however, as you will readily see, it has great value as a source of study and inspiration for the friends themselves. you are free

to translate and print it in dignified but moderately priced editions so that its cost to the friends will be affordable. perhaps you will want to collaborate

with other National Assemblies or with the publishing trust of any one of them in acquiring a supply of the printed material for your community. you

may also wish to produce a special edition for presentation to dignitaries and prominent figures in your country; the office of public information is

planning to print a special edition in english for limited use and you may

find such an edition appropriate to your needs. furthermore, you will want

to draw upon the statement in providing substance for various presentations on the faith to be made during the course of the holy year. it is left entirely 107 .7

107 .8

107 .9

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

197to your discretion to determine in what ways you can most effectively ex-

ploit its contents. whatever your plans, the house of justice expects that

the statement will be published widely and abundantly for liberal distribu-tion and use by the friends everywhere.

107-3 National and local Spiritual

Assemblies and their agencies, with the encouragement and support of the

continental counselors and their auxiliaries, will certainly see to the suc-

cessful pursuit of these important objectives.

we have been asked to assure you of the ardent prayers of the house

of justice at the holy Shrines that your endeavors to raise ever higher the

standard of bahá’u’lláh during the special year ahead may evoke his good

pleasure and constant confirmations.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

108

Riḍván Message 1991

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]