Part of a Series on Major Themes of the Creative Word
“The Word of God may be likened unto a sapling,
whose roots have been implanted in the hearts of
men.  It is incumbent upon you to foster its growth
through the living waters of wisdom, of sanctified and
holy words, so that its root may become firmly fixed
and its branches may spread out as high as the
heavens and beyond.”  —Bahá’u’lláh
The Word of God

Prepared by the National Teaching Committee
of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States.
Copyright © 1987 by the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of the United States.
All rights reserved.
Second printing April 1994 with minor revisions.
Electronic Edition December 2005.
Palabra Publications
7369 Westport Place
West Palm Beach, Florida 33413.
U.S.A.
1-561-697-9823
1-561-697-9815 (fax)
palabrapub@aol.com
www.palabrapublications.com
Extracts from the following books were reprinted with the permission of George Ronald, Publisher:
Rutstein, Spirit in Action: Teaching the Bahá’í Faith, 1984; Taherzadeh, The Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, Volumes I, II, and III, 1974-83; and Taafaki, Thoughts: Education for Peace and One
World, 1986.
Cover photograph by Kevin Schuler.
In this series:
The Word of God
The Covenant: Its Meaning and Origin
and Our Attitude Toward It
The Significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
Youth Can Move the World
The Spiritual Conquest of the Planet
The Journey of the Soul

Preface    2
1 Words    5
2 The Cause of Creation    15
3 The Revealed Word of God    25
4 Powers of the Word of God    35
5 Using the Revealed Word    45
6 Avoiding Pitfalls    57
Index    67
Contents
The Word of God

A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “The principles,
administration and fundamentals of the Faith are well known, but
the friends need greatly to study the more profound works which
would give them spiritual maturity to a greater degree, unify their
community life, and enable them to better exemplify the Bahá’í
way of living. . . .”1
This book is part of a series whose purpose is to draw the reader in-
to a study of the profound concepts found in the Bahá’í Revelation.
It is also intended to serve as a bridge leading to expanded study of
the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi.
The book can be used for individual or group study. Each lesson is
divided into a number of possible segments that can be used selec-
tively:
An introduction to the lesson.
A general presentation of new information.
Details of the “Overview” with quotes and examples.
Quotations from the writings on the lesson topic.
Excerpts on the lesson topic from books by Bahá’ís;
usually stories of Bahá’í history.
Three ways to explore the lesson topic in more depth.
Questions that review the lesson material.
Answers to the questions.
Questions for group discussion.
An exercise that explores the topic in more depth.
Suggested answers for the exercise.
Note in the “Readings” section that some words in the passages
from the writings are defined in the margins for your convenience.
Words having a specific meaning in a Bahá’í context are underlined
and defined with that meaning. Pronunciation of Bahá’í and Islamic
terms is also provided.
Preface
1 The Importance of Deepening 45-46
Introduction
Overview
Explanation
Readings
Illustrations
Further Study
Questions
Answers
Discussion
Exercise
Feedback

To use this book for individual study, create your own study plan
by choosing the sections you want to cover in each lesson. Depend-
ing on your personal preference you may wish to skip some of the
sections. However, please do not skip the “Readings” section, since
this provides a chance to read the Word of God and comments by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice.
Use the right side margins on each page to make notes and record
ideas. You may find it most convenient to study a lesson—or just
one lesson segment—with your daily prayers in the morning or
evening.
The book can also be used to create a plan for group study. For
example, each lesson can be read and discussed section by section.
Or, group members can read the lesson on their own, then come
together on a weekly basis for discussion of the quotations and
questions. As a third alternative, a group leader can summarize the
“Overview,” “Explanation,” and “Illustration” sections in a ten to
fifteen minute presentation before the group reads and discusses the
quotations.
At the end of the book is an index with references that go beyond
the quotations covered in the lessons. The index offers a valuable
starting point for an extended study of the Word of God.
Beyond personal and group deepenings, this book can be used as a
resource for preparing firesides, public talks, or seminar work at
Bahá’í schools. We hope you find it useful, educational, and uplift-
ing.
National Teaching Committee
August 1987

The Word of God hath set the heart of the world afire;
how regrettable if ye fail to be enkindled with its flame!
—Bahá’u’lláh

We cannot gain understanding about the Word of God through our
own unaided efforts. The Word of God, Bahá’u’lláh says, is “far
higher and superior to that which the senses can perceive.”1 We
must learn about the nature of the Word by turning to the means
God has provided—statements within the Word of God itself. This
will be our method throughout the six lessons of this book.
We begin our study of the Word of God with a more familiar topic
—the words of human beings. By exploring statements in the
Bahá’í Writings we will learn about the qualities and influence that
words possess. On this basic understanding of the nature of words
we can build, in lessons two and three, an understanding of the
nature of the Word of God.
Words
1 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 140
Introduction

“Every word,” Bahá’u’lláh says, “is endowed with a spirit.”2 This
spirit gives words influence and produces effects that can continue
for a long time.
Words, such as those used for backbiting or gossip, can produce
harmful effects. Words can also produce positive effects. They can
inspire and uplift; they can unify people and promote the progress
of civilization.
In every circumstance, words must be carefully selected to fit the
situation. The same words do not suit the young child and the
educated adult. Carelessly chosen words will have no effect, or
worse, a negative effect. Words presented at the right time and
suited to the hearer are more likely to produce the desired result.
To have their most positive influence words must be shared with
wisdom and kindness. Such words can bring spiritual life to human
hearts.
2 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 172
Overview

We can better understand the characteristics of words by means of a
concrete example. The effect of food on the body is similar to the
effect of words on the mind and soul. For example:
• Food nourishes and helps build our bodies. Our diet can affect
our health, our energy, even our mood. It can produce effects
on the body that last a lifetime.
Words influence the development of our minds and souls.
They influence our attitudes and behavior, and our inter-
actions with other individuals and other societies. Bahá’u’lláh
notes that the effects of words may “endure a century.”3
• Foods can have harmful or beneficial results. If food is
spoiled, or if we eat too much of a rich or spicy type, we can
become ill. A proper diet—with the right supply of vitamins,
fiber, and other vital nutrients—promotes good health.
Harm or benefit also results from words. “One word is like
unto springtime,” Bahá’u’lláh says, “. . . another word is even
as a deadly poison.”4 Our use of words can range from
backbiting, which “quencheth the light of the heart, and
extinguisheth the life of the soul”5 to teaching the Faith,
which can “stir up the souls of all men and incline their hearts
unto this most blessed and all-glorious Court.”6
• We must receive the proper foods at the proper times to
develop our full potential. Protein, for example, is necessary
for the development of a child’s brain in the womb.
Words also have a proper time and place. “Say not that which
the ears cannot bear to hear, for such speech is like luscious
food given to small children,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states. “However
palatable, rare and rich the food may be, it cannot be
assimilated by the digestive organs of a suckling child.”7
3 The Kitáb-i-Íqán 193
4 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 173
5 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 193
6 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 303
7 The Individual and Teaching 13
Explanation

1. “No man of wisdom can demonstrate his knowledge save by
means of words. This showeth the significance of the Word. . . . For
it is through its potency and animating spirit that the people of the
world have attained so eminent a position. Moreover words and
utterances should be both impressive and penetrating. However, no
word will be infused with these two qualities unless it be uttered
wholly for the sake of God and with due regard unto the exigencies
of the occasion and the people.
“The Great Being saith: Human utterance is an essence which
aspireth to exert its influence and needeth moderation. As to its
influence, this is conditional upon refinement which in turn is
dependent upon hearts which are detached and pure. As to its
moderation, this hath to be combined with tact and wisdom as
prescribed in the Holy Scriptures and Tablets.
“Every word is endowed with a spirit, therefore the speaker or
expounder should carefully deliver his words at the appropriate
time and place. . . . The Great Being saith: One word may be likened
unto fire, another unto light, and the influence which both exert is
manifest in the world. Therefore an enlightened man of wisdom
should primarily speak with words as mild as milk, that the children
of men may be nurtured and edified thereby and may attain the
ultimate goal of human existence which is the station of true under-
standing and nobility. And likewise He saith: One word is like unto
springtime causing the tender saplings of the rose-garden of knowl-
edge to become verdant and flourishing, while another word is even
as a deadly poison. It behoveth a prudent man of wisdom to speak
with utmost leniency and forbearance so that the sweetness of his
words may induce everyone to attain that which befitteth man’s
station.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 172-73
2. “Utterance must needs possess penetrating power. For if bereft of
this quality it would fail to exert influence. And this penetrating
influence dependeth on the spirit being pure and the heart stainless.
Likewise it needeth moderation, without which the hearer would be
unable to bear it, rather he would manifest opposition from the very
outset. And moderation will be obtained by blending utterance with
the tokens of divine wisdom which are recorded in the sacred Books
and Tablets. Thus when the essence of one’s utterance is endowed
with these two requisites it will prove highly effective and will be
the prime factor in transforming the souls of men. . . . Whoso attaineth
thereto is invested with the power to teach the Cause of God. . . . ”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 198-99
edified: instructed,
benefited
The Power and
Influence of Words
Readings
potency: power, might
animating: imparting life,
energy, movement
impressive: capable of
making a strong impres-
sion on the mind; inspiring
awe or admiration
penetrating: to go or enter
into; pervade; to affect
deeply, to affect the
emotions deeply
exigencies: demands or
needs of a given situation
moderation: staying within
reasonable bounds; not
extreme; restraint
endowed: furnished with;
provided; enriched
verdant: covered with
green vegetation
prudent: showing the
ability to govern oneself
through reason; using skill
or good judgement
leniency: exertion of a
soothing influence; mild
and tolerant disposition
forbearance: patience,
indulgence; self-restraint
induce: influence,
persuade
essence: individual, real,
or ultimate nature of a
thing

verities: fundamental
truths; inevitably true
values
allusions: indirect
reference; slight mention
or suggestion of something
manifold: various; diverse
3. “How great the multitude of truths which the garment of words
can never contain! How vast the number of such verities as no ex-
pression can adequately describe, whose significance can never be
unfolded, and to which not even the remotest allusions can be made!
How manifold are the truths which must remain unuttered until the
appointed time is come! Even as it hath been said: ‘Not everything
that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can everything that he can
disclose be regarded as timely, nor can every timely utterance be
considered as suited to the capacity of those who hear it.’”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 176
4. “He [the true seeker] must . . . observe silence, and refrain from
idle talk. For the tongue is a smouldering fire, and excess of speech
a deadly poison. Material fire consumeth the body, whereas the fire
of the tongue devoureth both heart and soul. The force of the former
lasteth but for a time, whilst the effects of the latter endure a century.
“That seeker should also regard backbiting as grievous error,
and keep himself aloof from its dominion, inasmuch as backbiting
quencheth the light of the heart, and extinguisheth the life of the soul.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 193
5. “If any soul speak ill of an absent one, the only result will clearly
be this: he will dampen the zeal of the friends and tend to make
them indifferent. For backbiting is divisive, it is the leading cause
among the friends of a disposition to withdraw. If any individual
should speak ill of one who is absent, it is incumbent on his hearers,
in a spiritual and friendly manner, to stop him. . . .
“If, however, a person setteth about speaking well of another,
opening his lips to praise another, he will touch an answering chord
in his hearers and they will be stirred up by the breathings of God.”
—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 230-31
6. “A kindly tongue is the lodestone of the hearts of men. It is the
bread of the spirit, it clotheth the words with meaning, it is the
fountain of the light of wisdom and understanding. . . .”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 289
7. “Arise for the triumph of My Cause, and, through the power of
thine utterance subdue the hearts of men. . . .”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 92
8. “The things He hath reserved for Himself are the cities of men’s
hearts. . . . Open, O people, the city of the human heart with the key
of your utterance.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 304
aloof: at a distance;
purposely apart
dominion: supreme
authority; area of influence
incumbent: obligation of;
duty of
lodestone: magnet; person
or thing that attracts
For more quotations on
topics raised in this lesson
see the index, page 67.

“One day a rich lady went to a saintly man to ask his advice.
She said that she wished to be a saintly woman, but there was one
fault which she found difficult to overcome. The saint told her that
there was no fault one could not overcome if one wanted to over-
come it.
“Then the lady told the saint how she was in the habit of gossip-
ing about others and how she had failed to overcome that fault
although she had tried very hard.
“‘Can you help me?’ she asked the holy man. ‘I will do any-
thing you ask me to do.’
“‘Very well,’ answered the holy man, ‘go to the market and buy
a fowl. On your way back home, pluck the fine feathers of the fowl
and throw them on the street as you walk along. Come and see me
after you have done this.’
“The rich lady was surprised to hear this, but she respected the
holy man. So she did as she was told and faithfully obeyed his
orders.
“The next day she went and told the holy man that she had
obeyed his commands.
“‘Very good,’ answered the saint. ‘You have done the first part
of your task very well. Now comes the second part. Go to the
market and walk along the street again and try to pick up the feath-
ers which you threw on the road yesterday.’
“‘That’s impossible!’ said the rich lady. ‘The wind has already
blown them in all directions. How can I collect the feathers again?’
“‘That is so,’ answered the holy man. ‘The same happens when
you gossip about others. Your words are passed from mouth to
mouth and it is impossible to stop the evil spreading, once it has
started. The best thing to do is not to start it.’”
—Taafaki, Thoughts: Education for Peace and One World 5-6
Illustrations

8 From Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. III 93: “It must be pointed out that the
majority of the so-called traditions of Shí‘ah Islám are man-made and consist of trivial sayings.
However, there are some authentic and weighty utterances by the Holy Imáms that are in
conformity with the form and spirit of the Qur’án. . . . ”
Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l is one of the greatest of the early Bahá’í scholars.
The following incident which occurred before he became a Bahá’í
demonstrates the power of words uttered for the sake of God:
“One Friday afternoon, Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l, in company with a
few mullás, left the city to visit a certain shrine in the countryside
in the vicinity of the capital. . . .
“It so happened that on the way out one of the donkeys lost a
shoe, so the party called at the nearest blacksmith shop for help.
Noticing the long beard and large turban of Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l—
indications of his vast knowledge—the blacksmith Ustád H. usayn-i-
Na‘l-Band (shoeing smith), who was illiterate, was tempted to enter
into conversation with the learned man. He said to Mírzá that since
he had honored him with his presence, it would be a great privilege
for him if he could be allowed to ask a question which had per-
plexed his mind for some time. When permission was granted he
said, ‘Is it true that in the Traditions of Shí‘ah Islám8 it is stated that
each drop of rain is accompanied by an angel from heaven? And
that this angel brings down the rain to the ground?’ ‘This is true,’
Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l responded. After a pause, the blacksmith begged
to be allowed to ask another question to which Mírzá gave his
assent. ‘Is it true,’ the blacksmith asked, ‘that if there is a dog in a
house no angel will ever visit that house?’ Before thinking of the
connection between the two questions, Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l responded
in the affirmative. ‘In that case,’ commented the blacksmith, ‘no
rain should ever fall in a house where a dog is kept.’ Mírzá Abu’l-
Fad.lFad.l, the noted learned man of Islám, was now confounded by
an illiterate blacksmith. His rage knew no bounds, and his compan-
ions noticed that he was filled with shame. They whispered to him,
‘This blacksmith is a Bahá’í!’
“This incident left a deep impression on Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l.”
—Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. III 92-94

Further Study
Personal
Reflection
Select one of the passages from the “Readings” section.
What does the passage say?
In what specific ways can this
passage be applied in your life?
Remaining
Questions
List any unanswered questions about the lesson you may want to
explore in more depth. Use the index on page 67 and additional
reading below to help you find answers to your questions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Tablet to Siyyid-i-Mihdíy-i-Dahají, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 193-202
A Tablet describing teaching and the power of utterance.
Additional
Reading and
Resources

1. (Circle the best answer.) Influence through words primarily
depends upon:
a. a pure heart
b. unity
c. proper timing
d. goodly deeds
2. (Circle one answer.) Moderation in using words depends upon:
a. silence
b. fewness of words
c. wisdom
d. detachment
3. (Circle one answer.) What is the result of backbiting?
a. the life of the soul is extinguished
b. disunity among Bahá’ís
c. praising other people stops
d. a and b
e. b and c
4. (Circle one answer.) The highest goal of speech is to:
a. have influence
b. seek spiritual truth
c. create unity
d. give life to souls
Questions

The following are suggested answers. Depending on your under-
standing of the quotes, you may have different answers. Consider
the suggested answers as a starting point for thought and discussion.
1. a. On page 8, the quotes state that influence “is conditional
upon refinement which in turn is dependent upon hearts that are
detached and pure” and “influence dependeth on the spirit being
pure and the heart stainless.” All the answers might arguably
affect the influence of words. However, without perfect unity,
timing, or deeds our words can still have some influence, while
without purity of heart words will be ineffective.
2. c. See the quotations on page 8. Note that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá defines
wisdom in teaching as “not that wisdom which requireth one to
be silent and forgetful of such an obligation, but rather that
which requireth one to display divine tolerance, love, kindness,
patience, a goodly character, and holy deeds.”8
3. d. The second and third quotations on page 9 address the effect
of backbiting on the soul and on unity.
4. d.  Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes the importance of using words to
quicken souls in the last three quotes on page 9. Unity, “c,” is
the ultimate outcome of giving spiritual life to souls. Note “b,”
is the opposite of the correct answer, since the seeker “must ob-
serve silence, and refrain from idle talk” (second quote, page 9).
8 The Individual and Teaching 12
Answers
Discussion
What are some examples of how words can influence the interac-
tion between individuals? Between societies?
According to the references on pages 8 and 9, what are the effects
of words? What qualities must words possess to transform souls?
How can you achieve each of these qualities?
What are constructive ways of dealing with backbiting?
What do you think Bahá’u’lláh means by “every word is endowed
with a spirit?” (Refer to the first quotation on page 8.)

The Cause
of Creation
As we have seen, words are more than just sounds and syllables.
They possess power and influence. They can do good or harm
depending upon the spirit with which they are spoken.
The Word of God, Bahá’u’lláh says, is “the king of words.”1  It is
an utterance that “mortal man can never rival.”2  It, too, possesses
power and influence, but far beyond that of the words of men.
We most often think of the Word of God in terms of the Holy
Books brought by God’s Manifestations. But the Word of God is
much more. In Islam, it is stated that God created the universe
through a single word—“Be.” Bahá’u’lláh also refers to this in His
Tablets,3 and states directly that the Word of God is the “Cause of
the entire creation.”4  The Word clearly possesses a nature and a
power beyond our full understanding.
In this lesson we will examine statements of Bahá’u’lláh that
describe the Word in its broadest sense—beyond the limitations of
the physical world. In the next lesson we will look more closely at
statements of Bahá’u’lláh that describe the nature of the Word in its
revealed form.
1 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 173
2 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 286
3 For example, see the Long Obligatory Prayer, Bahá’í Prayers 13, and the Tablet of Visitation,
Bahá’í Prayers 230
4 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 140
Introduction

The Bahá’í Writings describe three levels of reality: the world of
God, the world of the “Kingdom”5 or “Command of God”6—which
is the world of the Word of God—and the world of creation. The
Word of God acts as a link or intermediary between God and
creation. Through the Word the attributes of God are expressed in
the world; “every created thing” can then reflect these attributes
according to its “capacities and limitations.”7
The Word is an entity greater than any idea people can hold about it,
“sanctified,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “from any property or substance.”8
The Word has always been, and always will be. It is the first ema-
nation from God. Through the Word all other things were created.
The Bahá’í Writings also equate the Word of God with the Mani-
festation of God.9  The Word is the identity, or station, that is
common to all the Manifestations. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains: “The
third station [of the Manifestation] . . . is the Word of God, the
Eternal Bounty, the Holy Spirit. . . . The reality of prophethood . . .
is the Word of God and the perfect state of manifestation. . . .”10
The individual Manifestations as They appear in the world—Jesus,
Bahá’u’lláh, and Others—are mirrors that perfectly reflect the light
of the Word.11
5 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 295
6 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 141
7 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 142
8 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 140-41
9 A Manifestation of God is a Messenger of God through whom God’s perfections and attributes are
expressed. Examples are Abraham, Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus, Muh.ammad, the Báb, and
Bahá’u’lláh.
10‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 152
11For a detailed examination of the relationship between the Word and the Manifestation see The
Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings by Juan Ricardo Cole, published by the
Association for Bahá’í Studies.
Overview

While the Word is, like God Himself, unknowable to humanity, the
Writings offer us some aid in understanding. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes
the nature of the Word by comparing it to the rays of the sun.12
God is like the sun. As long as the sun has existed, so have the rays.
However, the existence of the rays depend upon the sun. Just as the
sun emanates its rays without dividing itself, God emanates the Word
without sharing His essence. When the rays shine upon a perfect
mirror (the individual Manifestation) the qualities of the sun appear.
The Word is the cause of creation, and it continues to exert power
and influence in the world. It is “the penetrating power in all things,
the mover of souls and the binder and regulator in the world of
humanity.”13 It serves as a “collective center”14—a point of unity—
around which humanity can gather. It is a “power above and beyond
the powers of nature,”15 that “embraceth and comprehendeth all
things,”16 and has “never been withheld from the world of being.”17
To assist us in our effort to understand the Word of God and the
way it influences creation, Bahá’u’lláh commonly uses metaphors
in His Writings. These metaphors—figures of speech that create
verbal pictures for us—associate the Word of God with things we
already know.
For example, Bahá’u’lláh describes His Revelation as “an ocean in
whose depths are concealed innumerable pearls of great price.”18
“Ocean” is a metaphor, a figure of speech, that tells us about the
nature of His Revelation. Since we already know that an ocean is
very large, we learn that Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is vast. We also
learn that in His Revelation there are valuable teachings—the
“pearls of great price.” Each Bahá’í must explore the “ocean” to
find and use the “pearls.”
Because the reader must draw conclusions about the two things
being compared, metaphors are useful for conveying many levels of
meaning at one time.19
12 Some Answered Questions 202-03
13 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 292
14 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan 93-97
15 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 53
16 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 257
17 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 141
18 Gleanings 326
19 For a more detailed explanation of metaphor see chapter 3 of The Nature of Physical Reality by
John Hatcher, especially pages 78-83.
Explanation

1. “The first thing which emanated from God is that universal
reality, which the ancient philosophers termed the ‘First Mind,’ and
which the people of Bahá call the ‘First Will.’”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 203
2. “. . . there is the world of God, the world of the Kingdom, and
the world of creation: three things. The first emanation from God is
the bounty of the Kingdom, which emanates and is reflected in the
reality of the creatures, like the light which emanates from the sun
and is resplendent in creatures; and this bounty, which is the light,
is reflected in infinite forms in the reality of all things. . . .”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 295
3. “. . . by a word of His command all that are in heaven and on
earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the Primal Will
itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of
being, the world of the visible. . . .”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 98
4. “But the proceeding through manifestation ... is the proceeding and
the appearance of the Holy Spirit and the Word, which is from God.
As it is said in the Gospel of John, ‘In the beginning was the Word,
and the Word was with God;’ then the Holy Spirit and the Word are
the appearance of God. The Spirit and the Word mean the divine
perfections that appeared in the Reality of Christ, and these perfec-
tions were with God. . . . The perfections of Christ are called the Word
because all the beings are in the condition of letters, and one letter
has not a complete meaning, while the perfections of Christ have the
power of a word because a complete meaning can be inferred. . . .
“And know that the proceeding of the Word and the Holy Spirit
from God . . . must not be understood to mean that the Reality of
Divinity had been divided into parts. . . . If a pure fine mirror faces
the sun, the light and heat, the form and the image of the sun will be
resplendent in it. . . . Nevertheless, the mirror is the mirror, and the
sun is the sun. . . .”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 206-07
5. “The third station [of the Manifestation] is that of the divine
appearance and heavenly splendor: it is the Word of God, the Eternal
Bounty, the Holy Spirit. It has neither beginning nor end, for these
things are related to the world of contingencies, and not to the divine
world.... In the same way the Word of God is purified from all these
conditions and is exempt from the boundaries, the laws, and the lim-
its of the world of contingency.” —‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 152
Readings
The Word of God
emanate: to come forth or
issue from a source
contingency: one
occurrence that is
dependent on or condi-
tioned by another; an
event that is possible but
not certain to occur

6. “... the irresistible Word ... is the Cause of the entire creation, while
all else besides His Word are but the creatures and effects thereof. . . .
“Know thou, moreover, that the Word of God . . . is higher and
far superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is sanctified
from any property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of
known elements and is exalted above all the essential and recognized
substances. It became manifest without any syllable or sound and is
none but the Command of God which pervadeth all created things.
It hath never been withheld from the world of being. It is God’s all-
pervasive grace, from which all grace doth emanate. It is an entity
far removed above all that hath been and shall be. . . .
“Every thing must needs have an origin and every building a
builder. Verily, the Word of God is the cause which hath preceded
the contingent world. . . . ”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 140-41
7. “The Word of God is the king of words and its pervasive influence
is incalculable. It hath ever dominated and will continue to dominate
the realm of being. The Great Being saith: The Word is the master
key for the whole world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors
of the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are
unlocked. . . . It is an ocean inexhaustible in riches, comprehending
all things. Every thing which can be perceived is but an emanation
therefrom.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 173
8. “... the moment the word expressing My attribute ‘The Omniscient’
issueth forth from My mouth, every created thing will, according to
its capacity and limitations, be invested with the power to unfold
the knowledge of the most marvelous sciences, and will be empow-
ered to manifest them in the course of time at the bidding of Him
Who is the Almighty, the All-Knowing. Know thou of a certainty
that the Revelation of every other Name is accompanied by a sim-
ilar manifestation of Divine power. Every single letter proceeding
out of the mouth of God is indeed a mother letter, and every word
uttered by Him Who is the Well Spring of Divine Revelation is a
mother word, and His Tablet a Mother Tablet.”—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 142
9. “The Word of God may be likened unto a sapling, whose roots
have been implanted in the hearts of men. It is incumbent upon you
to foster its growth through the living waters of wisdom, of sancti-
fied and holy words, so that its root may become firmly fixed and
its branches may spread out as high as the heavens and beyond.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 93-94
sanctified: purified, freed
from; set apart as holy
transcend: to rise above or
go beyond the limits of;
above the physical world
pervade: to pass through
or spread through every
part of
emanate: to come forth
from a source; to give out,
emit
grace: divine favor; mercy
entity: a distinct existing
thing
potency: power, might
omniscient: all-knowing
manifest: make obvious,
apparent to the senses;
demonstration
For more quotations on
topics raised in this lesson
see the index, page 67.

Further Study
Personal
Reflection
Select one of the passages from the “Readings” section.
What does the passage say?
In what specific ways can this
passage be applied in your life?
Remaining
Questions
List any unanswered questions about the lesson you may want to
explore in more depth. Use the index on page 67 and additional
reading below to help you find answers to your questions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Tablet of Wisdom, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 135-152
A Tablet that refers, in part, to the power of the Word of God.
The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings, by Juan Cole
An essay that includes a discussion of the relationship between
the Manifestation of God and the Word of God.
Additional
Reading and
Resources

1. (Circle all that apply.) The Word of God is:
a. beyond our complete understanding
b. the same as the words of human beings
c. described by Bahá’u’lláh
d. easy to define
2. (Circle all that apply.) The Word of God is the:
a. cause of creation
b. same as the Manifestation of God
c. same as God
d. Holy Books
3. (Circle all that apply.) The Word of God:
a. pervades all created things
b. has never been withheld
c. is God’s grace
d. is God’s commandments
4. (Circle all that apply.) A metaphor is a:
a. definition of the Word of God
b. way to describe the qualities of something
c. tool used in writing
d. verbal picture
Questions

The following are suggested answers. Depending on your under-
standing of the quotes, you may have different answers. Consider
the suggested answers as a starting point for thought and discussion.
1. a and c. Rather than easy to define, the Word is “higher and far
superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is sancti-
fied from any property or substance.” See quote #6 on page 19.
2. a, b, and d. Regarding “c,” God is independent of all things. For
“d”, in the Bahá’í view it may be impossible to determine the
authentic aspects of the Holy Scriptures of past religions.
3. a, b, c, and d. The Word is God’s “grace” and “Command” at
the same time. The purpose of the commandments is not to con-
trol us but to give true freedom. See quote #6 on page 19.
4. b, c, and d. See page 17.
What are the similarities and differences between the Word of God
and the words of human beings? (If necessary, refer to lesson 1.)
Do you think the Word of God can produce harmful results?
Describe your understanding of the relationship between the worlds
of Divinity (world of God), Command, and Creation. (See pages 16
and 18. Also, if you wish, see page 9 of the book in footnote 11.)
The Word of God “pervadeth all created things.” (Refer to #6 on
page 19.) How should the Word of God pervade (spread through
every part of) our lives?
Bahá’u’lláh states that “the Word is the master key for the whole
world, inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts of
men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked.” How
is the Word like a master key? How is a person’s heart like heaven?
What does it mean when Bahá’u’lláh says: “The Word of God may
be likened unto a sapling, whose roots have been implanted in the
hearts of men?” (Refer to #9 on page 19.) How do we “foster” the
“growth” of this tree?
Discussion
Answers

Bahá’u’lláh uses many metaphors in His Writings to help us understand what the Word of
God is. A metaphor is a figure of speech in which an image, or word picture, is used to
suggest a similarity or likeness between two things (see page 17). Read each of the follow-
ing quotes from the Writings. Then list the qualities of the thing that is used to help describe
the Word of God. What do these qualities tell us about the Word of God? An example of
how to complete the exercise is given.
“God Who has given the revelation
to His Prophets will surely give of
His abundance daily bread to all
those who ask. . . . ”25
Qualities
The characteristics or properties that
the image has.
Implications
What the qualities of the image tell
us about the Word of God.
A king stands above others. He
governs a kingdom or nation.
The Word is superior to words
of humanity; it should govern
our words.
“That city [of certitude] is none
other than the Word of God
revealed in every age. . . . ”23
“Indeed it is the sovereign
remedy for every disease. . . .”24
Metaphors
Images or pictures that help describe
the nature of the Word.
“the Divine Elixir . . . through
whose potency the crude metal of
human life hath been transmuted
into purest gold. . . . ”21
“The utterance of God is a
lamp. . . .”22
“Every single letter proceeding out
of the mouth of God is indeed a
mother letter, and every word . . .
a mother word. . . . ”20
“The Word of God is the king of
words. . . .”19
19 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 173
24 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 73
20 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 142
25 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 57
21 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations 54
22 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 288
23 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 199
Exercise

Bread is one of the basic foods of
life, that sustains our physical
existence.
The Word is the basic item on
which we feed spiritually.
“Every single letter proceeding out
of the mouth of God is indeed a
mother letter, and every word . . .
a mother word. . . . ”
A mother is the source of new life
and the primary source of
education.
The Word is a source of spiritual
life; the Word of God is also the
source of the progress, ideas,
and words of humanity.
An elixir is a preparation that was
thought to change metals to gold.
The Word has the power to
transform human life from being
materially directed to being
spiritually directed.
“The Word of God is the king of
words. . . .”
Qualities
The characteristics or properties that
the image has.
Implications
What the qualities of the image tell
us about the Word of God.
A king stands above others. He
governs a kingdom or nation.
The Word is superior to words
of humanity; it should govern
our words.
“The utterance of God is a
lamp. . . .”
A lamp provides light.
The Word provides teachings
that cast light on our problems
and guide us to spiritual well-
being.
“That city [of certitude] is none
other than the Word of God
revealed in every age. . . . ”
A city is a place to live where all
physical needs can be met.
The Word is a safe refuge
where we can live securely. It
provides all we need for our
spiritual life.
A remedy is the cure for a
disease. Sovereign means the
highest.
The Word provides the best
solutions to the problems (ills)
of individuals and society.
Metaphors
Images or pictures that help describe
the nature of the Word.
“the Divine Elixir . . . through
whose potency the crude metal of
human life hath been transmuted
into purest gold. . . . ”
“Indeed it is the sovereign
remedy for every disease. . . .”
“God Who has given the revelation
to His Prophets will surely give of
His abundance daily bread to all
those who ask. . . . ”
Feedback
The following are suggested answers to the exercise. You may have other answers that are
also appropriate.

The Revealed
Word of God
1 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 199; “Him Whom God will make manifest” and “His own Book”
refer to Bahá’u’lláh and His Writings.
In the world of creation the Word of God is revealed in every age
through the Manifestation of God and His Book. “In the days of
Moses it was the Pentateuch; in the days of Jesus the Gospel; in the
days of Muh.ammad the Messenger of God the Qur’án; . . . and in
the dispensation of Him Whom God will make manifest His own
Book. . . .”1
In this lesson we will examine the nature and purpose of the revealed
Verses of God.
Introduction

2 Gleanings 87-88
3 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 87
4 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 52
Overview
The Manner
of Revelation
Explanation
The Word of God in its revealed form has distinct qualities related to:
• the manner in which the Word is presented to humanity;
• the ability of each person to recognize and understand it; and
• the purpose of the Word for individuals and society.
The Word comes to humanity from One Source—God. It is re-
vealed progressively through a series of Divine Educators—the
Manifestations of God. Its outward form reflects the language and
culture of the people to whom the Word is sent. The measure of
each Revelation is fitted to the needs of humanity and to the capac-
ity of the people to understand. Its influence unfolds gradually.
All have the capacity to recognize the truth of the Word of God.
However, the Word attracts the pure in heart and at the same time
repels those who cannot accept it. The meaning of the Word of God
can never be exhausted. Understanding it is not dependent on
human learning, but on purity of heart and submission to God.
God’s purpose in revealing His Word is to educate humanity, both
spiritually and materially. The individual learns about the divine
qualities hidden in the soul and how to develop them. Society
learns how to establish a higher degree of unity and peace.
The appearance of the Word is like the appearance of the sun.
“Consider the sun,” Bahá’u’lláh writes. “How feeble its rays the
moment it appeareth above the horizon. How gradually its warmth
and potency increase as it approacheth its zenith, enabling mean-
while all created things to adapt themselves to the growing intensity
of its light.”2
The principle of progressive unfoldment of truth applies to the
successive Revelations that God sends to humanity. His Messengers
include Moses, Buddha, Jesus, Muh.ammad, the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh
and others. Each of these Manifestations presents “the light of Divine
Revelation” to “men in direct proportion to their spiritual capacity.”3
Each Revelation is limited to “a definitely prescribed mission.”4

The gradual unfoldment of the light also applies within each Rev-
elation. Bahá’u’lláh revealed His laws and teachings over more
than two decades. These obligations have been applied over time to
the believers by the designated head of the Faith. The Teachings
will guide humanity for at least 1000 years. The power of the Word
of God as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh is gradually changing society. It
will continue until the oneness of mankind—with all its implications
of world unity and peace—is established.
Every human being is given the ability to recognize the Manifestation
of God and His Revelation. “Had he not been endowed with such a
capacity, how could he be called to account for his failure?”5  The
light of the Revelation reacts on the mirror of the soul. The result
depends on how pure the mirror is. Believers are guided by the light;
those who disbelieve see no light, but find discomfort from the heat.
“Marvel not if in the Qur’án the unbeliever perceiveth naught but the
trace of letters, for in the sun, the blind findeth naught but heat.”6
Many truths lie hidden in the Word of God. Its meaning is inex-
haustible. We can acquire understanding in proportion to our efforts
at study, meditation, and prayer. “The understanding of His words
and the comprehension of the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are
in no wise dependent upon human learning. They depend solely
upon purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit.”7
When ground is cleared and cultivated it produces crops. When a
tree is pruned and nurtured it bears fruit. If an animal is trained it
can serve humanity. People are also in need of a trainer, an educator,
who can guide their progress in spiritual, social, and material affairs.
The Manifestation of God is the Divine Educator and the revealed
Word of God is the tool He uses to cultivate the soil of the heart.
“Is not the object of every Revelation to effect a transformation in
the whole character of mankind,” Bahá’u’lláh asks, “a transforma-
tion that shall manifest itself, both outwardly and inwardly, that
shall affect both its inner life and external conditions? For if the
character of mankind be not changed, the futility of God’s universal
Manifestation would be apparent.”8
5 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 143
7 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 211
6 Quoted in The Kitáb-i-Íqán 209
8 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 25
The Purpose of
the Word of God
Recognizing and
Understanding
the Word of God

1. ". . . every age requireth a fresh measure of the light of God.
Every Divine Revelation hath been sent down in a manner that
befitted the circumstances of the age in which it hath appeared.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 81
2. “It is clear and evident to thee that all the Prophets are the
Temples of the Cause of God, Who have appeared clothed in divers
attire. If thou wilt observe with discriminating eyes, thou wilt behold
Them all abiding in the same tabernacle,  soaring in the same heaven,
. . . uttering the same speech, and proclaiming the same Faith. . . .
“The other station is the station of distinction, and pertaineth to
the world of creation. . . . It is because of this difference in their
station and mission that the words and utterances flowing from these
Well Springs of Divine knowledge appear to diverge and differ.
Otherwise . . . all their utterances are, in reality, but the expressions
of one Truth.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 52-53
3. “. . . the fundamental principle which constitutes the bedrock of
Bahá’í belief, [is] the principle that religious truth is not absolute but
relative, that Divine Revelation is orderly, continuous and progressive
and not spasmodic or final.”
—Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 115
4. “Contemplate with thine inward eye the chain of successive
Revelations that hath linked the Manifestation of Adam with that of
the Báb. . . . Each one of these Manifestations hath been sent down
through the operation of the Divine Will and Purpose, . . . each hath
been the bearer of a specific Message, . . . each hath been entrusted
with a divinely-revealed Book. . . . The measure of the Revelation
with which every one of them hath been identified had been defi-
nitely fore-ordained.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 74
5. “Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light of
Divine Revelation hath been vouchsafed unto men in direct propor-
tion to their spiritual capacity. Consider the sun. . . . Were it, all of a
sudden, to manifest the energies latent within it, it would, no doubt,
cause injury to all created things. . . . In like manner, if the Sun of
Truth were suddenly to reveal, at the earliest stages of its manifes-
tation, the full measure of the potencies which the providence of the
Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of human understanding
would waste away and be consumed; for men’s hearts would
neither sustain the intensity of its revelation, nor be able to mirror
forth the radiance of its light.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 87-88
The Manner
of Revelation
vouchsafed: granted;
conceded
Readings
Revelation: presentation
by God of His Will and
Truths to humanity; the
measure of Divine Truth
brought by each Manifes-
tation
befit: to be suitable or
appropriate for
abiding: to remain stable
or fixed in a state; to
continue in a place
tabernacle: place of
worship
diverge: to be different in
character or form
constitutes: to make up,
form, compose
relative: having meaning
only in connection with
something else; compara-
tive
progressive: moving
forward, especially by
steps or degrees
spasmodic: sudden but
short-lived; proceeding
fitfully
fore-ordained: appointed in
advance; predestined;

Bayán (buy-awn): one of
the central books of the
Báb; title given by the Báb
to His Revelation,
particularly His Books
6. “The One true God may be compared unto the sun and the believer
unto a mirror. No sooner is the mirror placed before the sun than it
reflects its light. The unbeliever may be likened unto a stone. No
matter how long it is exposed to the sunshine, it cannot reflect the
sun. . . . Indeed, if God willeth, He is potent to turn the stone into a
mirror, but the person himself remaineth reconciled to his state. Had
he wished to become a crystal, God would have made him to assume
crystal form. For on that Day whatever cause prompteth the believer
to believe in Him, the same will also be available to the unbeliever.
. . . Thus, as is clearly evident today, those who have set their faces
toward God, the True One, have believed in Him because of the
Bayán, while such as are veiled have been deprived because of it.”
—Selections from the Writings of the Báb 103
7. “. . . the Birds of Heaven and Doves of Eternity speak a twofold
language. One language, the outward language, is devoid of allu-
sions, is unconcealed and unveiled; that it may be a guiding lamp....
The other language is veiled and concealed, so that whatever lieth
hidden in the heart of the malevolent may be made manifest. . . .
This is the divine standard, this is the Touchstone of God, where-
with He proveth His servants. None apprehendeth the meaning of
these utterances except them whose hearts are assured, whose souls
have found favor with God, and whose minds are detached from all
else but Him. In such utterances, the literal meaning, as generally
understood by the people, is not what hath been intended. Thus it is
recorded: ‘Every knowledge hath seventy meanings, of which one
only is known amongst the people. And when the Qá’im shall arise,
He shall reveal unto men all that which remaineth.’”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 254-55
8. “. . . just as thou firmly believest that the Word of God, exalted
be His glory, endureth for ever, thou must, likewise, believe with
undoubting faith that its meaning can never be exhausted.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 175
9. “. . . it is therefore incumbent upon every one to seek enlighten-
ment from the illumined in heart and from the Treasuries of divine
mysteries regarding the intricacies of God’s Faith and the abstruse
allusions in the utterances of the Daysprings of Holiness. Thus will
these mysteries be unraveled, not by the aid of acquired learning,
but solely through the assistance of God and the outpourings of His
grace.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Importance of Deepening 6
Recognizing and
Understanding
the Word of God
reconciled to: to bring one
to accept something
unpleasant or unwanted
intricacies: complexities
abstruse: hard to under-
stand; obscure
malevolent: wishing evil to
others; spiteful
touchstone: stone used to
test the quality of gold or
silver; a standard for
testing quality
apprehend: understand,
grasp
Qá’im (caw-’em): literally,
He Who ariseth; reference
to One awaited by Islam;
the Báb

10. “The ordinances of God have been sent down from the heaven
of His Most august Revelation. . . . Man’s supreme distinction, his
real advancement, his final victory, have always depended, and will
continue to depend, upon them. Whoso keepeth the commandments
of God shall attain everlasting felicity.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 289
11. “God has sent forth the Prophets for the purpose of quickening
the soul of man into higher and divine recognitions. He has re-
vealed the heavenly Books for this great purpose. . . . This divine
and ideal power has been bestowed upon man in order that he may
purify himself from the imperfections of nature and uplift his soul
to the realm of might and power. The mission of the Prophets of
God has been to train the souls of humanity and free them from the
thralldom of natural instincts and physical tendencies. They are like
unto Gardeners, and the world of humanity is the field of Their
cultivation. . . .”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace 310
12. “The purpose underlying the revelation of every heavenly
Book, nay, of every divinely-revealed verse, is to endue all men
with righteousness and understanding, so that peace and tranquillity
may be firmly established amongst them. . . .” —Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 206
13. “The fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God and His
Religion is to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the
human race, and to foster the spirit of love and fellowship amongst
men.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 215
14. “Every man of insight will, in this day, readily admit that the
counsels which the Pen of this wronged One hath revealed consti-
tute the supreme animating power for the advancement of the world
and the exaltation of its peoples.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 93
15. “If these obstructing veils had not intervened Persia would, in
some two years, have been subdued through the power of utterance.
. . . In short, sometimes in explicit language, at other times by
allusion, We said whatever had to be said. Thus, once Persia had
been rehabilitated, the sweet savors of the Word of God would have
wafted over all countries, inasmuch as that which hath streamed
forth from the Most exalted Pen is conducive to the glory, the
advancement and education of all the peoples and kindreds of the
earth. Indeed it is the sovereign remedy for every disease, could
they but comprehend and perceive it.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 73
The Purpose of
the Word of God
ordinances: commands,
laws
diligently: steadily,
earnestly and energetically
make an effort
felicity: great happiness
thralldom: condition of
servitude; mental or moral
bondage
cultivation: preparation for
growth; improvement by
care or labor
righteousness: justice;
virtue; morals
For more quotations on
topics raised in this lesson
see the index, page 67.
exaltation: raising in rank,
station or dignity;
glorification
stronghold: a fort; a place
of security or survival
explicit: clearly stated;
definite
conducive: lead to,
contribute to
sovereign: supreme, chief

“The revealed Word has an inner spirit and an outer form. The
inner-most spirit is limitless in its potentialities; it belongs to the
world of the uncreated and is generated by the Holy Spirit of God.
The outer form of the Word of God acts as a channel through which
the stream of God’s Holy Spirit flows.
“. . . the Bearer of the Message of God influences the outer
form of the Word of God. . . . Because Bahá’u’lláh was a Persian,
the Word of God in this age is revealed in both the Persian and
Arabic languages. The personality of Bahá’u’lláh, the style of His
Writings, the nature of the Persian language, its idioms and its
proverbs, the stories He relates of the lives of His contemporaries in
that country and the lands to which He was exiled, all contribute to
the form of the revealed Word in this Dispensation.
“Although Bahá’u’lláh did not attend any of the schools for the
divines or learned classes, yet men of letters have testified that His
Writings both in Arabic and Persian, viewed solely from the literary
point of view, are unsurpassed in their beauty, richness and elo-
quence. Although unfamiliar with the Arabic language, its vast
vocabulary and the complexities of its grammar, which normally
took the divines a lifetime to master, Bahá’u’lláh has so enriched
Arabic literature with His Writings that He has created, as
Muh.ammad did in His day, a style which has inspired Bahá’í
scholars and writers ever since. . . .
“In order to write, any writer must rely on his knowledge and
learning. He will have to meditate on the subject and undertake
research. After much work he may produce a book in which always
there will be ample room for improvement, and not infrequently he
will feel it necessary to rewrite the entire book. This is not so in the
case of the Manifestations of God Who do not rely on Their own
human accomplishments. . . .
“The Qur’án, the Holy Book of Islám, consists of approxi-
mately six thousand three hundred verses. It was revealed by
Muh.ammad during the course of twenty-three years. In this Dispen-
sation, however, the outpouring of Divine Revelation has been
vouchsafed to humanity in such profusion that, within the span of
one hour, the equivalent of one thousand verses was revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh. . . .
“. . . The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh . . . are so vast in their range
that, as attested by Himself, they would, if fully compiled, amount
to no less than one hundred volumes.”
—Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I 21-24
Illustration

Further Study
Personal
Reflection
Select one of the passages from the “Readings” section.
What does the passage say?
In what specific ways can this
passage be applied in your life?
Remaining
Questions
List any unanswered questions about the lesson you may want to
explore in more depth. Use the index on page 67 and additional
reading below to help you find answers to your questions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, by Adib Taherzadeh
A series of four volumes that examines the scope of
Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation of the Word of God. Includes a chapter
on the concept of the Word of God (chapter 3, volume I).
The Metaphorical Nature of Physical Reality, by John Hatcher
An essay on the meaning of physical reality that sheds light on
the concept of the depths of meaning in the revealed Word of
God.
Additional
Reading and
Resources

1. (Circle all that apply.) Regarding the way the Word of God is
revealed to humanity, it is:
a. limited by the knowledge of the Manifestation
b. fitted to the needs of the age
c. progressive and orderly
d. sudden and complete
2. (Circle all that apply.) Regarding the recognition of the truth of
the Word of God:
a. all will recognize it
b. the Word is a barrier to recognition for some
c. God can help anyone to believe
d. God distinguishes between people
3. (Circle all that apply.) Greater understanding of the Word of
God depends upon:
a. a pure heart
b. acquired learning
c. asking spiritually learned individuals
d. the assistance of God
4. (Circle all that apply.) The purpose of the Word of God is to:
a. transform individuals
b. establish peace
c. advance civilization
d. raise the station of peoples
Questions

The following are suggested answers. Depending on your under-
standing of the quotes, you may have different answers. Consider
the suggested answers as a starting point for thought and discussion.
1. b and c. See quotations #1, #3, and #4 on page 28. The Message
is limited by the capacity of humanity—not by the knowledge
of the Manifestation. Each Message is suited to the world’s
needs and is progressive and orderly rather than sudden
and complete.
2. b, c, and d. See #6, #7, and #8 on page 29. Answer “a” is not
correct, since although all can recognize the truth of the Revela-
tion, some will not.
3. a, c, and d. See page 27 and quotation #9 on page 29. Note for
“c” that “it is incumbent upon everyone to seek enlightenment
from the illumined in heart. . . .”
4. a, b, c, and d. See the quotations on page 30. They refer to “the
advancement and education of all the peoples,” the “peace and
tranquillity” of “all men,” the “real advancement,” “final vic-
tory,” and “everlasting felicity” of man, and other such results
which it is the purpose of the Word of God to produce.
9 The Kitáb-i-Íqán 112
Describe how the gradual unfoldment of truth applies to progressive
revelation from one Manifestation to the next. How does it apply
within each Revelation?
In The Kitáb-i-Íqán, Bahá’u’lláh notes that the Word of God, which
is “sharp as the sword of God,” has “separated the faithful from the
infidel, and severed father from son.” At the same time He speaks
of the “binding force of the Word of God, which uniteth the
hearts. . . .”9  How can the Word of God both unite and divide?
(Refer also to the last sentence #9 on page 29.)
Explain the purpose of the Word of God. How does the Word help
individuals progress? How does it help society progress?
Discussion
Answers

Powers of the
Word of God
The purpose of the Word of God is to exert influence on people and
on the physical world. How the Word of God produces these effects
is the topic of this lesson.
It is not possible to present a complete list of the powers of the
Word of God. However, there are three important powers of the
Word that show how it draws spiritual power for use in the material
world.
In this lesson we will examine how the Word of God acts through
its creative power, through its magnetic power, and through its
evolutionary power to draw spiritual forces that cause change in the
physical world.1
1 This lesson is based on ideas presented in a talk entitled “The Creative Word” given by
Peter Khan in Wilmette on June 26, 1981.
Introduction

Some of the principles that operate in nature help us understand how
the Word of God acts in the world to cause change. These include:
• the principle of creation;
• the principle of magnetism; and
• the principle of evolution.
The Word of God has a creative power. It can influence the interac-
tion between matter and spirit to bring about a new creation.
The Word of God has a magnetic power. It draws spiritual power
that then has an attractive and binding influence in the world. We
can tap the magnetic power of the Word of God through prayer,
meditation, reading, study, memorization, or service to the Faith.
The Word of God has an evolutionary power. It transforms things to
a higher level of order. The spirit drawn from the Word’s magnetic
power acts to help things grow and develop.
The Creative
Power
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that the world of creation is composed of two
elements, spirit and matter. He states that spirit is an active, creative
force that permeates all matter. He describes matter as inactive,
self-existent, and filling all space.2 The act of creation is the inter-
action of the active force (which from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s description
might be considered spirit) with the receptive element (matter).3
For example, in nature a new plant is created when matter, the seed,
acquires the vegetable spirit. A new human being is created when
matter, the fertilized egg, is joined with the human spirit.
The creative power of the Word of God operates on many levels. In
its form that transcends the physical world (lesson 2), the Word is
the “Cause of the entire creation.”4
In the form of the language of men—the verses of God’s Manifes-
tation—the Word is also creative. Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings have the
power to recreate a soul or a society. Spiritual rebirth begins when
people recognize their Lord, and are joined with the spirit of faith.
Overview
Explanation
2 Bahá’í Scriptures 301
3 Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh 140
4 Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh 140

The Magnetic
Power
The magnetic power is the power of attraction. Consider a magnet.
It is, at first glance, like any other rock. But because of its special
structure it can attract certain objects, such as steel or iron. The
attractive power of a magnet creates greater harmony, unity and
arrangement around it.
Outwardly, the revealed Word of God is made up of ordinary words
that can be found in a dictionary. But because it has a special form
arranged by the Manifestation of God, the divine verses have a
power that differs from the words of men—the power of the Holy
Spirit. By using the Word of God and by translating its instructions
into action we draw the power of the Holy Spirit to ourselves. “It is
only by the breath of the Holy Spirit that spiritual development can
come about,”5 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states.
Also, just as one magnet attracts another, people can be drawn
together through the spirit of the Word of God. “Through the power
of the words He hath uttered,” Bahá’u’lláh informs us, “the whole
human race can be illumined with the light of unity. . . .”6
The evolutionary power is a transforming power—a power that
causes change, allowing potential to unfold. In nature, a single plant
or animal gets energy from its environment to help it grow and to
develop new powers.  A tree, for example, goes from seed, to
sapling, to tree. In the process it grows leaves, branches, and even-
tually, fruit.
People grow spiritually under the influence of the Word of God.
We develop greater capacity to act with divine virtues, such as
justice or kindness. “Man is like unto a tree,” Bahá’u’lláh states.
“The fruits of the human tree are exquisite, highly desired and
dearly cherished. Among them are upright character, virtuous deeds
and a goodly utterance. . . . The Water for these trees is the living
water of the sacred Words. . . .”7
The three powers described work in harmony to produce spiritual
growth. The creative power lays down the seed for future growth
by creating new spiritual capacities. The magnetic power attracts a
measure of spirit. The spirit then influences the expression of the
potential that lies within the soul.
5 Paris Talks 133
6 Gleanings 286
7 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 257
The Evolutionary
Power

1. “O my God.... Thou art that King by Whose commanding word the
whole creation hath been called into being.”—Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers 146
2. “Every single letter proceeding from Our mouth is endowed with
such regenerative power as to enable it to bring into existence a
new creation—a creation the magnitude of which is inscrutable to
all save God.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 107
3. “Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is endowed
with such potency as can instill new life into every human frame, if
ye be of them that comprehend this truth. All the wondrous works
ye behold in this world have been manifested through the operation
of His supreme and most exalted Will, His wondrous and inflexible
Purpose. Through the mere revelation of the word ‘Fashioner,’
issuing forth from His lips and proclaiming His attribute to man-
kind, such power is released as can generate, through successive
ages, all the manifold arts which the hands of man can produce.
This, verily, is a certain truth. No sooner is this resplendent word
uttered, than its animating energies, stirring within all created
things, give birth to the means and instruments whereby such arts
can be produced and per-fected. All the wondrous achievements ye
now witness are the direct consequences of the Revelation of this
Name. In the days to come, ye will, verily, behold things of which
ye have never heard before.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 141-42
4. “Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have . . .
breathed a new life into every human frame, and instilled into every
word a fresh potency. All created things proclaim the evidences of
this world-wide regeneration.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 92-93
5. “Consider the hour at which the supreme Manifestation of God
revealeth Himself unto men. Ere that hour cometh, the Ancient
Being, Who is still unknown of men and hath not as yet given
utterance to the Word of God, is Himself the All-Knower in a world
devoid of any man that hath known Him. He is indeed the Creator
without a creation. For at the very moment preceding His Revela-
tion, each and every created thing shall be made to yield up its soul
to God.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 151
6. “The words of Bahá’u’lláh and the Master, however, have a crea-
tive power and are sure to awaken in the reader the undying fire of the
love of God.”
—written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 34-35
The Creative
Power
generate: to bring into
existence; to produce.
regenerative: able to fill
with new life; able to make
better, reform; able to
renew spiritually.
inscrutable: hard to grasp;
mysterious
Readings
devoid: entirely without;
lacking.

7. “. . . the divine magnet—the power of the Word of God—will
attract the hearts and bestow ecstasy and enthusiasm upon souls!”
—Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Vol. II 358
8. “. . . these holy verses are the most potent elixir, the greatest and
mightiest talisman. . . . This Revelation is endowed with such a
power that it will act as the lodestone for all nations and kindreds of
the earth.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 200
9. “Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the verses revealed
by God, the scattering angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad
the fragrance of the words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the
heart of every righteous man to throb. Though he may, at first,
remain unaware of its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed
unto him must needs sooner or later exercise its influence upon his
soul. Thus have the mysteries of the Revelation of God been de-
creed by virtue of the Will of Him Who is the Source of power and
wisdom.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 295
10. “In the contingent world there are many collective centers which
are conducive to association and unity. . . . For example, patriotism
. . . nationalism . . . identity of interests . . . political alliance . . .,
and the prosperity of the world of humanity is dependent upon the
organization and promotion of the collective centers. Nevertheless,
all the above institutions are, in reality, the matter and not the
substance, accidental and not eternal. . . . Consequently, the real
Collective Center is the body of the divine teachings, which include
all degrees and embrace all the universal relations. . . . Naught but
the celestial potency of the Word of God, which ruleth and
transcendeth the realities of all things, is capable of harmonizing
the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas, and convictions of the
children of men.”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan 93-95
11. “. . . today . . . from all sects, races, tribes, nations and commu-
nities souls have come together in the light of the Word, assembled,
united and agreed in perfect harmony. . . . Verily, this is from the
penetrative power of the Word of God! If all the forces of the
universe were to combine they would not be able thus to gather a
single assemblage so imbued with the sentiments of love, affection,
attraction and enkindlement . . . and to raise up . . . a voice that shall
dispel war and strife, uproot dissension and disputation, usher in the
era of universal peace and establish unity and concord amongst men.”
—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 292
The Magnetic
Power
concord: harmony,
agreement; agreement by
stipulation, compact, or
covenant
celestial: heavenly, divine
elixir: a substance believed
to prolong life indefinitely
and to change metals into
gold
talisman: figure cut in
metal or stone supposed
to possess magical
powers; a charm used to
protect against evil, amulet
lodestone: magnet; person
or thing that attracts

12. “During thy supplications to God and thy reciting, ‘Thy Name
is my healing,’ consider how thine heart is cheered, thy soul de-
lighted by the spirit of the love of God, and thy mind attracted to
the Kingdom of God! By these attractions one’s ability and capac-
ity increase. When the vessel is enlarged the water increases, and
when the thirst grows the bounty of the cloud becomes agreeable to
the taste of man.”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Spiritual Foundations 11
13. “. . . strive to follow the counsels of these Blessed Books . . .
that ye may, following the examples set before you, become your-
selves the saints of the Most High!”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 61-62
14. “If in this day a soul shall act according to the precepts and the
counsels of God, he will serve as a divine physician to mankind . . .
he will call the dead of this contingent world to life. . . . Thus shall
a sorry gnat become an eagle in the fullness of his strength, and a
feeble sparrow change to a royal falcon in the heights of ancient
glory.”
—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 23
15. “. . . a power above and beyond the powers of nature must needs
be brought to bear, to change this black darkness into light, and these
hatreds and resentments, grudges and spites, these endless wrangles
and wars, into fellowship and love amongst all the peoples of the
earth. This power is none other than the breathings of the Holy Spirit
and the mighty inflow of the Word of God.”
—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 53
16. “Can any power withstand the penetrative influence of the
Word of God? Nay, by God! . . . For these divine injunctions tame
every ferocious beast, transform the creeping insect into a soaring
bird, cause human souls to become angels of the Kingdom, and
make the human world a focus for the qualities of mercy.”
—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 293
17. “Is it within human power . . . to effect in the constituent elements
of any of the minute and indivisible particles of matter so complete
a transformation as to transmute it into purest gold? Perplexing and
difficult as this may appear, the still greater task of converting
satanic strength into heavenly power is one that We have been
empowered to accomplish. . . . The Word of God, alone, can claim
the distinction of being endowed with the capacity required for so
great and far-reaching a change.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 200
The Evolutionary
Power
precepts: rules of action or
moral conduct.
sorry: inspiring sorrow,
pity, scorn, or ridicule;
worthless
supplication: prayer or
humble request; earnest
request.
For more quotations on
topics raised in this lesson
see the index, page 67.
transformation: act of
changing
transmute: to change from
one form, substance,
nature, or class to another.
satanic: characterized by
extreme cruelty or
viciousness

8 Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Vol. II 459
9 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 267
Illustration
The following story demonstrates the Word’s transforming power.
It is about a new Bahá’í who carried a very bad habit with him into
the Faith. He was a liar. Lying was a natural part of his life and the
life of his family, used as a tool to survive a hostile society.
“As a Bahá’í he discovers that ‘truthfulness is the foundation of
all human virtues.’8  He vows to change, but how to do it?
“Realizing that through deepening and prayer he can be en-
dowed with a new eye, a new ear, a new heart, and a new mind,’9
he decides to deepen every day—in the morning and evening as
Bahá’u’lláh prescribes. . . .
“So he begins to deepen, making time in the morning before going
to work, and making time in the evening before going to bed. . . . A
week after he starts deepening, he’s tested at work. His foreman
asks a question, and he lies . . . without hesitating an instant. But
when the foreman leaves, he realizes he lied, something he would
never have concerned himself with in the past. His new awareness
is not only a sign of progress in overcoming a character flaw, but
also signifies the development of the young man’s conscience.
“A month later—still deepening every day—he’s tested again.
This time he hesitates before answering. . . . He succumbs to the
pull of the past and lies, and for a few minutes feels bad. . . .
“He continues to deepen regularly. Three weeks later, he’s faced
with another test. He lies again, but this time, before he utters a
word, his chest and throat tighten and he can’t look at the person.
Afterwards he berates himself for more than an hour. . . .
“Three months go by. Still faithfully deepening, he’s confronted
by a former friend. . . . He wishes he could disappear . . . but he lies.
For the remainder of the day he is conscience-stricken, even has
difficulty sleeping.
“After a year of deepening . . . he’s tested again. This time he is
seized with pain in his chest and begins to sweat. . . . In torment, he
sits down, placing his head in his hands. He wants desperately to
tell the truth, yet feels the tug of the past.
“Suddenly, he . . . tells the truth. The pain in his chest disappears.
There is a glow in his eyes. The foreman is perplexed, wondering if
the young man is on some kind of narcotic. . . . It is a victory only
the young man can appreciate, a feeling of liberation he has never
experienced before. He is not what he was before he started deep-
ening. . . . Could he ever go back to what he was? Never! For he
has sensed the fragrance of the Abhá Kingdom.”
—Rutstein, Spirit in Action: Teaching the Bahá'í Faith 88-90

Further Study
Personal
Reflection
Select one of the passages from the “Readings” section.
What does the passage say?
In what specific ways can this
passage be applied in your life?
Remaining
Questions
List any unanswered questions about the lesson you may want to
explore in more depth. Use the index on page 67 and additional
reading below to help you find answers to your questions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
The Creative Word,  by Peter Khan
A taped talk given by Dr. Peter Khan in Wilmette on June 26,
1981.
Additional
Reading and
Resources

1. (Circle one answer.) In this lesson, when we say the Word of
God is creative, we mean it has power to:
a. create something from nothing
b. cause something to come into being
c. change something over time
d. unify two things
2. (Circle one answer.) Another name for the magnetic power of
the Word of God is:
a. quickening
b. attracting
c. illuminating
d. transforming
3. (Circle one answer.) Another name for the evolutionary power
of the Word of God is:
a. quickening
b. attracting
c. illuminating
d. transforming
4. Associate the following effects of the Word of God with one of
its three powers:
example:
creates unity
magnetic
a. individual spiritual rebirth
b. maturing of Bahá’í institutions
c. drawing closer to God
d. gaining detachment
Questions

The following are suggested answers. Depending on your under-
standing of the quotes, you may have different answers. Consider
the suggested answers as a starting point for thought and discussion.
1. b. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “absolute nonexistence cannot
become existence.”10 Note in this lesson we are referring to the
creative power. In various statements in the Writings the Word
of God is called the Creative Word. In this sense “Creative”
implies all the powers of the Word, including “c” and “d.”
2. b. The magnetic power attracts and unifies.
3. d. The evolutionary power produces change or transformation.
4. a. Creative. We are recreated—joined with the spirit of faith—
and given new spiritual potential. This is a more dramatic change
than the evolutionary process related to our spiritual growth.
b. Evolutionary.
c. Magnetic. Our hearts are bound and drawn toward God.
Love is part of this unifying power.
d. Evolutionary. This is the process of acquiring virtues.
10 Some Answered Questions 180
Answers
Discussion
How do the creative, magnetic, and evolutionary powers of the
Word work together to produce change in an individual? in society?
What is “satanic strength?” What is “heavenly power?” (Refer to
#17 on page 40.) How can we convert our own satanic strength into
heavenly power?
Refer to #6 page 38. In your opinion, how are the words of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá like those of Bahá’u’lláh? How are they different?
What do you think Bahá’u’lláh means by a “Creator without a
creation?” (Refer to #5 on page 38.)

Using the
Revealed Word
The first three lessons addressed the question of what the Word of
God is. The fourth lesson looked at what the Word of God does.
The next two lessons deal with how we interact with the Word of
God.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the Cause of God is like a college. The
believers are the students. “If . . . the scholars are not educated the
object of the college is not achieved.” It is necessary that we make
use of what we learn. “Now the friends must so live and conduct
themselves as to bring greater glory and results to the religion of
God. To them the cause of God must be as a dynamic force trans-
forming the lives of men. . . .”1
Successfully drawing on the power of the Word of God is the key
to positive change in our own lives and the lives of others. We must
first learn the ways to tap this power. Then we must learn to put this
power into action.
1 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Importance of Deepening 18-19
Introduction

It is possible to use the power of the Word of God for the better-
ment of ourselves, and of those around us—our family, community,
those we teach, and all humanity. Power is tapped through prayer,
meditation, study, reading, memorization, and service to the Faith.
Each of us must establish a personal pattern for use of the Word of
God. The degree to which we can effectively draw on the power of
the Word is directly related to our regular use, firm will, and con-
sistent effort to translate the Word into action.
Drawing Power
from the Word
of God
Overview
Explanation
We can compare the power of the Word to the power of electricity.
Early man was awed by the power of electricity shown by lightning.
But humanity could not use the power until effort was made to learn
the laws governing it. Today the power of electricity is easily tapped
for many purposes. The power of the Word is similarly available to
us, and can transform our lives if we learn to draw upon it.
Bahá’u’lláh teaches us the following ways to tap the Word’s power:
• Prayer, which strengthens “that mystic feeling that unites
man with God” and which is “absolutely indispensable to . . .
inner spiritual development. . . .”2
• Meditation, or thinking deeply about the divine verses.
“Through meditation the doors of deeper knowledge and
inspiration may be opened.”3
• Reading of the divine verses “with joy and radiance,” that
they “attract you unto God and will enable you to detach
yourselves from all else save Him.”4
• Study, or deepening, which is “to read the writings . . . so
thoroughly as to be able to give it to others in its pure form.”5
“Study the teachings profoundly,” Shoghi Effendi states, “that
the light of Divine Guidance may illumine your path. . . .”6
2 Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Spiritual Foundations 14
3 Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Spiritual Foundations 18
4 Bahá’u’lláh, The Importance of Deepening 2
5 Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 28
6 The Importance of Deepening 22

• Memorization or “learning by heart of the Tablets of Bahá’-
u’lláh and the Báb” which “the Master used to attach much
importance to. . . .”7
• Service to the Cause or to “exalt” the “Word”8 through
teaching, developing good character,9 supporting the Fund,
and other efforts.
We use the power of the Word of God to promote our spiritual
development—to draw closer to God, or to receive protection from
tests. Power can also be drawn to assist others. For example, in our
family life it assists training of our children; in our communities, it
builds unity through the Feast; in society, it opens the hearts of
people to the message of Bahá’u’lláh and heals the ills of humanity.
Using the power of the Word of God is not as easy as flipping a light
switch. Effort is needed. “It is incumbent upon every man of insight
and understanding,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “to strive to translate that
which hath been written into reality and action. . . .”10  Efforts require:
• Regularity. For example, Bahá’u’lláh instructs us to care-
fully read “every day the verses revealed by God”11 and recite
“the verses of God every morning and evening.” He states:
“Whoso reciteth them not hath truly failed to fulfill his pledge
to the Covenant of God. . . .”12
• Willpower, or volition—our determination to use the Word to
transform ourselves and others. “All that which ye potentially
possess can, however, be manifested only as a result of your
own volition.”13
• Perseverance—to keep trying despite difficulties. “Thou
must exert much effort and show forth perseverance and
constancy,”14 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges us. At the same time, the
goal is to uplift, not overburden ourselves. “Burden not your
souls so as to cause exhaustion and weigh them down,”
Bahá’u’lláh writes, “but rather endeavor to lighten them, that
they may soar on the wings of revealed Verses. . . .”15
7 Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 34
8 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 137
12 The Importance of Deepening 1
9 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 272
13 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 149
10 Gleanings 250
14 The Importance of Deepening 8-9
11 The Importance of Deepening 2
15 Spiritual Foundations 1
Effort is Needed
to Move from
Words to Deeds

1. “When a person becomes a Bahá’í ... the seed of the spirit starts to
grow in the human soul. This seed must be watered by the outpour-
ings of the Holy Spirit. These gifts of the spirit are received through
prayer, meditation, study of the Holy Utterances and service to the
Cause of God.”
—Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 51
2. “. . . the core of religious faith is that mystic feeling which unites
man with God. This state of spiritual communion can be brought
about and maintained by means of meditation and prayer. . . . It is
not sufficient for a believer merely to accept and observe the
teachings. He should, in addition, cultivate the sense of spirituality
which he can achieve chiefly by means of prayer. The Bahá’í Faith,
like all other Divine Religions, is thus fundamentally mystic in
character. Its chief goal is the development of the individual and
society, through the acquisition of spiritual virtues and powers. . . .
“The believers . . . should therefore fully realize the necessity of
praying. For prayer is absolutely indispensable to their inner spiri-
tual development. . . .” —Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Spiritual Foundations 14
3. “Meditate upon that which hath streamed forth from the heaven
of the Will of thy Lord, He Who is the Source of all grace, that thou
mayest grasp the intended meaning which is enshrined in the sacred
depths of the Holy Writings.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 143
4. “It is my hope that you may put forth your most earnest endeavor
to accomplish this end [drawing closer to God], that you may inves-
tigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so that you may
attain knowledge of the mysteries hidden therein. Be not satisfied
with words, but seek to understand the spiritual meanings hidden in
the heart of the words.”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace 458-59
5. “If one arise to promote the Word of God with a pure heart,
overflowing with the love of God and severed from the world, the
Lord of Hosts will assist him with such power as will penetrate the
core of existent beings.”
—Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Vol. II 348
6. “... if an avowed follower of Bahá’u’lláh were to immerse himself
in, and fathom the depths of, the ocean of these heavenly teachings,
and with the utmost care and attention deduce from each of them the
subtle mysteries and consummate wisdom that lie enshrined therein,
such a person’s life, materially, intellectually and spiritually, will
be safe from toil and trouble, and unaffected by setbacks and perils,
or any sadness or despondency.”—Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 20
Personal
Transformation
Drawing Power
from the Word
of God
avowed: openly declared
fathom: to measure; to
come to understand
deduce: to derive a
conclusion from a general
principle using reason
despondency: hope-
lessness
Readings
mystic: having a spiritual
meaning or reality not
readily apparent to the
senses or the intellect;
relating to an individual’s
communication with God
acquisition: the act of
acquiring; getting
meditate: to think deeply
about; reflect upon;
consider carefully

7. “These children are even as young plants, and teaching them the
prayers is as letting the rain pour down upon them, that they may
wax tender and fresh, and the soft breezes of the love of God may
blow over them. . . .”
—Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 139
8. “In every cycle and Dispensation, the Feast hath been favored
and loved. . . . Here the holy verses, the heavenly odes and laudations
are intoned, and the heart is quickened, and carried away from itself.”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Meetings and the Nineteen Day Feast 17
9. “Gather ye together with the utmost joy and fellowship and recite
the verses revealed by the merciful Lord. By doing so the doors to
true knowledge will be opened to your inner beings, and ye will
then feel your souls endowed with steadfastness and your hearts
filled with radiant joy.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Importance of Deepening 2
10. “Hold meetings and read and chant the heavenly teachings, so
that city may be illumined with the light of reality and that country
become a veritable paradise by the strength of the Holy Spirit. . . .”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Importance of Deepening 14
11. “That which can insure the victory of Him Who is the Eternal
Truth, His hosts and helpers on earth, have been set down in the
sacred Books and Scriptures.... These hosts are such righteous deeds,
such conduct and character, as are acceptable in His sight. Whoso
ariseth, in this Day, to aid Our Cause, and summoneth to his assis-
tance the hosts of a praiseworthy character and upright conduct, the
influence from such an action will, most certainly, be diffused
throughout the whole world.”—Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in The Advent of Divine Justice 24
12. “From the texts of the wondrous, heavenly Scriptures they should
memorize phrases and passages bearing on various instances, so that
in the course of their speech they may recite divine verses whenever
the occasion demandeth it. . . . So potent is their influence that the
hearer will have no cause for vacillation.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 143
13. “Now is the moment in which to cleanse thyself with the waters of
detachment that have flowed out from the Supreme Pen, and to pon-
der, wholly for the sake of God, those things which, time and again,
have been sent down or manifested, and then to strive, as much as
lieth in thee, to quench, through the power of wisdom and the force
of thy utterance, the fire of enmity and hatred which smouldereth in
the hearts of the peoples. . . .”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 12
Using the Word in
Interaction with
Others
wax: to increase in size,
power or degree; to
become gradually
odes: a poem that
expresses in an exalted
style the poet’s feelings
and thoughts
laudations: high praises
quicken: to bring life to; to
revive, give new life to
recite: to repeat aloud from
memory
enmity: hostility; deep
seated resentment, ill will,
or malice
veritable: actual; real,
genuine
vacillation: wavering back
and forth; being indecisive

14. “There is a vast difference between the soul who merely reads
the words of Bahá’u’lláh and the one who tries to live them.”
—‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Importance of Deepening 18
15. “It is easy to read the Holy Scriptures, but it is only with a clean
heart and a pure mind that one may understand their true meaning.
Let us ask God’s help to enable us to understand the Holy Books. Let
us pray for eyes to see and ears to hear. . . .” —‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks 56-57
16. “It is the duty of every seeker to bestir himself and strive to
attain the shores of this ocean, so that he may, in proportion to the
eagerness of his search and the efforts he hath exerted, partake of
such benefits as have been pre-ordained in God’s irrevocable and
hidden Tablets.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 326
17. “There can be no doubt whatever that, in consequence of the
efforts which every man may consciously exert and as a result of
the exertion of his own spiritual faculties, this mirror [‘the mirror of
His beauty in the world of creation’] can be so cleansed from the
dross of earthly defilements and purged from satanic fancies as to
be able to draw nigh unto the meads of eternal holiness and attain
the courts of everlasting fellowship.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 262
18. “No matter how strong the measure of Divine grace, unless
supplemented by personal, sustained and intelligent effort it cannot
become fully effective. . . .”
—Shoghi Effendi, Living the Life 15
19. “. . . the untapped sources of celestial strength . . . will unhesitat-
ingly pour forth their energizing influences if the necessary daily
effort be made and the required sacrifices be willingly accepted.”
—Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith 85
20. “Naturally there will be periods of distress and difficulty, and
even severe tests; but if that person turns firmly toward the divine
Manifestation, studies carefully His spiritual teachings and receives
the blessings of the Holy Spirit, he will find that in reality these tests
and difficulties have been the gifts of God to enable him to grow
and develop.”
—Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 51
21. “Arise, O people, and, by the power of God’s might, resolve to
gain the victory over your own selves, that haply the whole earth
may be freed and sanctified from its servitude to the gods of its idle
fancies. . . .”
-—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 93
Effort is Needed
to Move from
Words to Deeds
bestir: to rouse oneself to
vigor and action
For more quotations on
topics raised in this lesson
see the index, page 67.
dross: any worthless
matter
satanic: spiteful, malicious;
selfish
irrevocable: incapable of
being repealed or undone

“How can we systematize the development of our spiritual nature?...
“One American worked out a system of spiritual development for
himself based on his personality, nature and understanding of the
Teachings. It not only helped him to grow but provided him with a
sharper focus in identifying and solving his problems and in dealing
with the world. . . . He’s more secure, confident, optimistic, caring,
happy to serve others and is developing a teaching state of mind. . . .
“Before meeting his Lord in prayer, he washes his hands and
face, as Bahá’u’lláh prescribes; then goes to a special spot in the
house where he won’t be disturbed. . . .
“After praying, which includes saying the long obligatory prayer,
he deepens himself by reading a page or paragraph, sometimes a sen-
tence from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá—and medi-
tates on what he’s read. The prayers and deepening usually take about
twenty minutes. Rarely much longer, because he’s taken to heart
Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching that prayer should refresh, not tire, the soul.
“He goes to work after eating breakfast, fortified to face a world
that doesn’t operate on a spiritual level. Two hours later . . . [i]t’s
coffee break time . . . but he spends half of the fifteen-minute break
alone, reciting the Greatest Name ninety-five times. And he needs
to do that, because despite his early morning session with God, he’s
been exposed to backbiting, gossip, lying, cheating, office politics,
discourtesy, insensitivity and rudeness. . . . To make sure he gets
through the day, he looks for an opportunity to share the Message,
directly or indirectly, with someone during lunchtime. During the
afternoon coffee break, he recites the Remover of Difficulties for
however long he feels it is necessary.
“About half an hour before going to sleep, he retreats to his spe-
cial spot in the house where he’ll bring himself to account, evaluat-
ing his day, thinking of how he could have been a more effective
human being. At times he’ll look into the Writings for guidance on
how to correct his mistakes, or improve his attitude. Then he’ll pray
and deepen, going to sleep with his mind focused on the soul-
purifying words of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. . . .
“Although it was difficult to start the system, mainly because he
had never done anything like it before, the more he did it, the easier it
was to do, until it was totally integrated into his life’s daily routine.
The system of developing his spiritual nature became as necessary
to him as meeting his daily food requirements. And he learned that
it took less time to nurture his spiritual nature every day than to eat
breakfast, lunch, supper and the two coffee breaks—about an hour
altogether. . . .”
—Rutstein, Spirit in Action: Teaching the Bahá’í Faith 48-50
Illustration

Further Study
Personal
Reflection
Select one of the passages from the “Readings” section.
What does the passage say?
In what specific ways can this
passage be applied in your life?
Remaining
Questions
List any unanswered questions about the lesson you may want to
explore in more depth. Use the index on page 67 and additional
reading below to help you find answers to your questions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
The Importance of Deepening Our Knowledge and Understanding
of the Faith
A compilation that focuses on the use of the Creative Word.
Additional
Reading and
Resources

1. We can draw the power of the Word of God through:
a. _______________
b. _______________
c. _______________
d. _______________
e. _______________
f. _______________
2. Our efforts to use the Word of God to produce change in our
lives require:
a. _______________
b. _______________
c. _______________
3. In what meetings should the Word of God be used to bind
together the hearts of the believers? (Circle all that apply):
a. Feast
b. dawn prayers
c. meetings held just for this purpose
d. Holy Day observances
Questions

16 Spiritual Foundations 20
The following are suggested answers. Depending on your under-
standing of the quotes, you may have different answers. Consider
the suggested answers as a starting point for thought and discussion.
1. Prayer, meditation, reading, study, memorization, and service to
the Cause. See pages 46 and 47.
2. Regularity, willpower, and perseverance. See page 47.
3. a, b, c, and d. For “c,” see quotation #10 on page 49. For “d,”
while Holy Day observances do not require use of the Word of
God, its use would be welcome, especially  since we are now
very aware of the power of the Word of God to unite and
inspire the hearts of the believers.
A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “He thinks it
would be wiser for the Bahá’ís to use the Meditations given by
Bahá’u’lláh, and not any set form of meditation recommended by
anyone else; but the believers must be left free in these details and
allowed to have personal latitude in finding their own level of
communion with God.”16 What is meditation? How does someone
meditate? How do you, or how can you, use meditation regularly?
How can the Word of God be used to better promote the education
and spiritual development of children in your community? (Refer to
the #7 on page 49, but don’t limit your ideas to this.)
How can we use the Word of God more effectively at Feast and
other Bahá’í gatherings to bind together the hearts of the believers?
What do you think the Guardian means by: “The Bahá’í Faith . . . is
. . . fundamentally mystic in character?” (Refer to #1 on page 48.)
What part does the power of the Word of God play in teaching?
What impact does it have on the teacher? the seeker? the new
believer? (Refer to page 48 and to #12 on page 49.)
Discussion
Answers

Effect
What effect is produced? How does
the Word produce this effect?
Application
How can you apply this effect in your
life, family, or community?
Statement
A quote about a change resulting
from the power of the Word.
“Through each and every one of
the verses which the Pen of the
Most High hath revealed, the
doors of love and unity have been
unlocked. . . .”15
“It is my hope . . . that through the
power of the Word of God ye will
bring life to the dead now buried in
the graves of their sensual
desires. . . .”16
“. . . let your ears be attentive unto
His Word, so that ye may . . . drink
your fill from the crystal waters of
constancy, and become as steadfast
and immovable as the mountain in
His Cause.”17
“Every verse which this Pen hath
revealed is a bright and shining
portal that discloseth the glories of a
saintly and pious life, of pure and
stainless deeds.”18
“There is no greater means to bring
about affection between the white
and the black than the influence of
the Word of God.”19
“. . . the establishment of peace is
unachievable save through the power
of the Word of God.”20
The effect produced is love and
unity. The spirit drawn by the
Word binds the hearts of
individuals.
By saying prayers as a family in
the morning and evening.
The Bahá’í Writings describe many specific effects produced by the Word of God. Com-
plete the following exercise which will help to determine practical goals for using the Word
to produce desired changes. Indicate ways you personally can apply the Word of God. An
example is given.
15 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 87
18 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 96
16 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 36-37
19 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Power of Unity 55
17 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 13
20 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 296
Exercise

The following are suggested answers—you may have a different response. In each category
one sample answer is given. You may have a number of answers based on different situa-
tions to which the quotation may apply. Select one of the means for applying the Word of
God that you described in your answers to the exercise. Try to begin to put this goal into
practice in the coming week.
Effect
What effect is produced? How does
the Word produce this effect?
Application
How can you apply this effect in your
life, family, or community?
“. . . the establishment of peace is
unachievable save through the power
of the Word of God.”
“. . . let your ears be attentive unto
His Word, so that ye may . . . drink
your fill from the crystal waters of
constancy, and become as steadfast
and immovable as the mountain in
His Cause.”
“It is my hope . . . that through the
power of the Word of God ye will
bring life to the dead now buried
in the graves of their sensual
desires. . . . ”
“Through each and every one of
the verses which the Pen of the
Most High hath revealed, the doors
of love and unity have been
unlocked. . . .”
Statement
A quote about a change resulting
from the power of the Word.
The effect produced is love and
unity. The spirit drawn by the
Word binds the hearts of
individuals.
The effect is that souls are
quickened. The Word is spiritual
food that attracts the hungry. It
then creates a new being through
igniting the spirit of faith.
The effect produced is certitude.
The Word of God draws us closer
to God and can transform us,
providing greater spiritual
capacities.
“Every verse which this Pen hath
revealed is a bright and shining
portal that discloseth the glories of a
saintly and pious life, of pure and
stainless deeds.”
The effect produced is pure deeds.
The Word teaches us how to live
and the qualities we need to ob-
tain, then helps us become trans-
formed so we can live the life.
“There is no greater means to bring
about affection between the white
and the black than the influence of
the Word of God.”
The effect produced is world
peace. The Word achieves this,
in part, by outlining the basic
requirements to establish a
peaceful world society.
By saying prayers as a family in
the morning and evening.
Memorize quotations from the
Word of God that can be used at
a monthly fireside.
Rise 15 minutes early each day to
read regularly from the Word of
God.
Establish a plan for weekly study
of the Word which includes setting
goals based on Divine Teachings.
Study the Bahá’í Writings on race
unity. Then befriend and associ-
ate closely with a person or family
of another race, working to apply
what was learned.
The effect produced is the end of
prejudice between black and
white. This occurs, in part,
through individual transformation.
Work with a local peace group,
sharing, when the opportunity is
presented, the Bahá’í Teachings
on the establishment of peace.
Feedback

Avoiding Pitfalls
The Word of God is a potent force operating in the spiritual and
physical worlds. We must therefore approach the Word of God with
the proper humility and care. A number of pitfalls await those who
approach the Word of God without the proper respect for its true
nature. We must understand these pitfalls to guard against losing
the great blessings God provides for us through His Word.
Introduction

The Writings outline at least five pitfalls1 which can come between
us and the truths enshrined in the Word of God. These pitfalls are:
• holding preconceptions;
• overemphasizing individual interpretations;
• demonstrating intellectual pride;
• using study as an excuse for inaction; and
• treating the Word of God like the words of men
Most of us have found something in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
different from what we previously believed. Such preconceptions
can be a problem if they become a barrier to accepting what the
Word of God has to teach us. We may be tempted to take one or
two verses that prove our point, and ignore other verses that say
something else. We would be bending the Word to fit our own
beliefs, rather than letting the Word lead us.
For example, the Qur’án indicates that the earth goes around the
sun. When people believed the earth was the center of the universe,
they mocked the teachings of the Qur’án. Some Moslems even
went to great lengths to try to explain away the verses of God with
wild interpretations. Instead of accepting the Word, they tried to
make it match their false preconceptions. The Word is the standard
of truth; our beliefs must be measured against this standard.2
Individual interpretations of the Word are welcomed in the Bahá’í
teachings. They are “the fruit of man’s rational power and conducive
to better understanding.”3 However, these interpretations are limited.
We have to be aware that we may make an incorrect interpretation.
And we cannot impose our personal interpretation on anyone else.
Most importantly, individual interpretation must not be confused
with the authorized interpretations of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá or Shoghi Effendi. Their interpretations are binding
on all Bahá’ís.
Holding
Preconceptions
1 These categories are based on a talk given by Peter Khan in Wilmette on June 26, 1981
2 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 198
3 The Universal House of Justice, Wellspring of Guidance 88
Overview
Explanation
Overemphasizing
Individual
Interpretations

Knowledge can be a veil that prevents the learned person from ever
recognizing the truth of God’s Word. Intellectual pride may even
cause a person to attack the new teachings, as the clergy have done
with each Revelation. After accepting Bahá’u’lláh, intellectual
pride may lead us to believe that our opinion is the best, that others
have little or nothing to contribute, or that the progress of the Faith
depends on following our personal viewpoint.
“Blessed are the learned,” Bahá’u’lláh says, “that pride not them-
selves on their attainments.”4  Great learning does not excuse some-
one from obeying teachings on humility, courteousness, wisdom,
and tolerance for the views of others—for all knowledge comes
from God.
It is possible to become so involved in our study of the Word of
God that we fail to take time to put it into action. In the past, monks
and other religious people withdrew from society to study, trying to
draw closer to God. Bahá’u’lláh puts supreme emphasis on action.
“He whose words exceed his deeds, know verily his death is better
than his life.”5  Shoghi Effendi indicates that to achieve success in
our endeavors we must “meditate on the teachings, pray fervently
for divine confirmations, . . . study the teachings, . . . and then act;
and above all persevere in action.”6
There is a great danger in treating the Word of God like the words
of men. We may find ourselves beginning to analyze the teachings
for accuracy or validity. We may try to look for contradictions.
The Báb was asked by a group of Moslem clergymen to prove His
claim to be a Manifestation of God by producing verses like those
found in the Qur’án. He began to speak. One of the clerics, how-
ever, attacked the Báb, claiming that He was using incorrect Arabic
grammar. “The Qur’án itself,” was the Báb’s reply, “does in no
wise accord with the rules and conventions current amongst men.
The Word of God can never be subject to the limitations of His
creatures. . . . These men have, in the very texts of that holy Book,
discovered no less than three hundred instances of grammatical
error. . . . Inasmuch as it was the Word of God, they had no other
alternative except to resign themselves to His will.”7
Demonstrating
Intellectual Pride
4 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 315
6 Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 52
5 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 156
7 Reported words of the Báb, The Dawnbreakers 318-19
Using Study as
an Excuse for
Inaction
Treating the
Word of God
Like the
Words of Men

1. “It behoveth every man to blot out the trace of every idle word
from the tablet of his heart, and to gaze, with an open and unbiased
mind, on the signs of His Revelation. . . . ”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 11
2. “. . . the unbelievers have inclined their ears towards Us in order
to hear that which might enable them to cavil against God. . . . And
since they are unable to attain to mysteries of knowledge and wisdom
from what hath been unravelled by the Source of divine splendor,
they rise in protest and burst into clamor. But it is true to say that they
object to that which they comprehend, not to the expositions given
by the Expounder, nor the truths imparted by the One true God....
Their objections, one and all, turn upon themselves, and I swear by
thy life that they are devoid of understanding.”—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 141
3. “But, O my brother, when a true seeker determines to take the step
of search in the path leading to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days,
he must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart . . . from the
obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the
embodiments of satanic fancy . . . that no remnant of either love or
hate may linger therein, lest that love blindly incline him to error, or
that hate repel him away from the truth.” —Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 192
4. “Blessed is the man that hath acknowledged his belief in God
and in His signs, and recognized that ‘He shall not be asked of His
doings.’ “. . . Whoso hath not recognized this sublime and fundamen-
tal verity, and hath failed to attain this most exalted station, the winds
of doubt will agitate him, and the sayings of the infidels will distract
his soul. He that hath acknowledged this principle will be endowed
with the most perfect constancy. . . .”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 86-87
5. “Those words uttered by the Luminaries of Truth must needs be
pondered, and should their significance be not grasped, enlighten-
ment should be sought from the Trustees of the depositories of
Knowledge, that these may expound their meaning, and unravel
their mystery. For it behooveth no man to interpret the holy words
according to his own imperfect understanding, nor, having found
them to be contrary to his inclination and desires, to reject and
repudiate their truth. For such, today, is the manner of the divines
and doctors of the age, who occupy the seats of knowledge and
learning, and who have named ignorance knowledge, and called
oppression justice.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 181-82
Holding
Preconceptions
remnant: that which is left
over
cavil: to find fault without
good reason
Overemphasizing
Individual
Interpretations
Readings
depositories: places where
something is put for
safekeeping
behoove: to be necessary
or proper for; to be
advantageous to

6. “A clear distinction is made in our Faith between authoritative
interpretation and the interpretation or understanding that each
individual arrives at for himself. . . . While the former is confined to
the Guardian, the latter . . . should by no means be suppressed. In fact
such individual interpretation is considered the fruit of man’s ratio-
nal power and conducive to a better understanding of the teachings,
provided that no disputes or arguments arise among the friends and
the individual himself understands and makes it clear that his views
are merely his own. Individual interpretations continually change as
one grows in comprehension of the teachings. As Shoghi Effendi
wrote: ‘. . . The more we read the Writings, the more truths we can
find in them, the more we will see that our previous notions were
erroneous.’ The friends must therefore learn to listen to the views
of others without being overawed or allowing their faith to be
shaken, and to express their own views without pressing them on
their fellow Bahá’ís.” —The Universal House of Justice, Wellspring of Guidance 88-89
7. “... Knowledge is of two kinds: Divine and Satanic. The one welleth
out from the fountain of divine inspiration; the other is but a reflection
of vain and obscure thoughts. The source of the former is God . . .
the latter the whisperings of selfish desire.”  —Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 69
8. “Were these [the divines] to ask the Light of Truth concerning
those images which their idle fancy hath carved, and were they to
find His answer inconsistent with their own conceptions and their
own under-standing of the Book, they would assuredly denounce
Him. . . .”
—Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Íqán 182
9. “No good but only evil can come from taking the responsibility
for the future of God’s Cause into our own hands and trying to force
it into ways that we wish it to go regardless of the clear texts. . . .
“. . . the believers must recognize the importance of intellectual
honesty and humility. In the past dispensations many errors arose
because the believers in God’s Revelation were overanxious to en-
compass the Divine Message within the framework of their limited
understanding, to define doctrines where definition was beyond
their power, to explain mysteries which only the wisdom and
experience of a later age would make comprehensible, to argue that
something was true because it appeared desirable and necessary. Such
compromises with essential truth, such intellectual pride, we must
scrupulously avoid.”
—The Universal House of Justice, Wellspring of Guidance 87-88
idle: lacking worth or basis;
not turned to proper use
fancy: imagining; whim;
a liking formed by a
sudden arbitrary change of
mind rather than reason
Demonstrating
Intellectual Pride
encompass: to surround,
encircle; to contain
comprehensible: under-
standable
scrupulously: in a manner
attentive to detail, exact

10. “. . . O concourse of monks! Seclude not yourselves in your
churches and cloisters. Come ye out of them by My leave, and
busy, then, yourselves with what will profit you and others. Thus
commandeth you He Who is the Lord of the Day of Reckoning.
Seclude yourselves in the stronghold of My love. This, truly, is the
seclusion that befitteth you, could ye but know it. He that secludeth
himself in his house is indeed as one dead. It behooveth man to
show forth that which will benefit mankind. He that bringeth forth
no fruit is fit for the fire.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 49
11. “Knowledge is as wings to man’s life, and a ladder for his
ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone. The knowledge
of such sciences, however, should be acquired as can profit the
peoples of the earth, and not those which begin with words and end
with words.”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 51-52
12. “Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and sciences
as are current amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring
balance established amongst men. In this most perfect balance
whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be
weighed, while the measure of its weight should be tested according
to its own standard, did ye but know it.”
—Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 198
13. “Warn thou the servants of God not to reject that which they do
not comprehend. Say, implore God to open to your hearts the
portals of true understanding that ye may be apprised of that which
no one is apprised. . . .
“Know thou of a truth that whatsoever hath been prescribed in
the Book is indeed the truth, no doubt is there about it, and it is
incumbent upon everyone to observe that which hath been sent
down by Him Who is the Revealer, the All-Knowing. . . .”
—Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 188
14. “He feels that many of the perplexities that arise in your mind
could be dissipated if you always conceived of the teachings as one
great whole with many facets. Truth may, in covering different
subjects, appear to be contradictory, and yet it is all one if you carry
the thought through to the end. . . . He hopes you will . . . rest assured
inwardly that for these things which sometimes seem difficult to
understand there is usually a quite simple and reasonable explana-
tion.”
—Written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Deepening 47
Using Study as
an Excuse for
Inaction
For more quotations on
topics raised in this lesson
see the index, page 67.
Treating the
Word of God
Like the
Words of Men
apprised: given notice of
prescribed: laid down as a
guide, direction, or rule of
action
perplexities: confusions;
contradictions
dissipated: scattered;
disappeared
seclude: to withdraw from
others; keep away
cloister: monastery

“The following story in the life of Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l, the outstand-
ing scholar of the Cause and its famous apologist, is one which
demonstrates that reading the Word of God with the eye of intellect
can lead a man astray. He himself has recounted the story that soon
after he came in contact with the believers, they gave him the
Kitáb-i-Íqán to read. He read it with an air of intellectual superior-
ity and was not impressed by it. He even commented that if the
Kitáb-i-Íqán was a proof of Bahá’u’lláh’s claims, he himself could
certainly write a better book.
“At that time he was the head of a theological college in T. ihrán.
The following day a prominent woman arrived at the college and
approached some students asking them to write an important letter
for her. The students referred her to Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l saying that
he was an outstanding writer, a master of eloquence and a man
unsurpassed in the art of composition. Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l took up
his pen to write, but found himself unable to compose the first
sentence. He tried very hard but was unsuccessful. For several
minutes he scribbled in the corner of the page and even drew lines
on his own fingernail, until the woman realized that the learned
scribe was unable to write. Losing her patience she arose to go and
mockingly said to Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l, ‘If you have forgotten how to
write a simple letter why don’t you say so instead of keeping me
here while you scrawl?’
“Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l says that he was overcome with feelings of
shame as a result of this incident, and then suddenly remembered
his own comments the night before about his being able to write a
better book than the Kitáb-i-Íqán. He had a pure heart and knew
that this incident was nothing but a clear answer to his arrogant
attitude towards that holy Book.
“However, it took Mírzá Abu’l-Fad.l several years to be con-
vinced of the truth of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. . . . The same
person who once had said he could write a better book than the
Kitáb-i-Íqán, read this book many times with the eye of faith and
found it to be an ocean of knowledge, limitless in scope. Every time
he read it he found new pearls of wisdom within it and discovered
new mysteries which he had not come across before.”
—Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. II 219-20
Illustration

Further Study
Personal
Reflection
Select one of the passages from the “Readings” section.
What does the passage say?
In what specific ways can this
passage be applied in your life?
Remaining
Questions
List any unanswered questions about the lesson you may want to
explore in more depth. Use the index on page 67 and additional
reading below to help you find answers to your questions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
The Creative Word,  by Peter Khan
A taped talk given by Dr. Peter Khan in Wilmette on June 26,
1981.
Additional
Reading and
Resources

1. List five potential pitfalls which can come between us and
under standing the Word of God:
a. _______________
b. _______________
c. _______________
d. _______________
e. _______________
2. (Circle all that apply.) Individual interpretations of the Word of
God:
a. promote better understanding of the teachings
b. can be correct
c. should not be applied to other people
d. should be suppressed
3. (Circle all that apply.) In comparing the teachings of the Word
of God to the knowledge of men:
a. the teachings of God are a standard to examine
the knowledge of men
b. reason is given to mankind as a tool to measure
the truth of each of the divine teachings
c. the teachings of God may appear to be
contradictory
d. the Word of God follows the rules of grammar
Questions

The following are suggested answers. Depending on your under-
standing of the quotes, you may have different answers. Consider
the suggested answers as a starting point for thought and discussion.
1. Holding preconceptions, overemphasizing individual interpreta-
tions, demonstrating intellectual pride, using study as an excuse
for inaction, and treating the Word of God like the words of
men.
2. a, b, and c. See quotation #6 on page 61. Individual interpreta-
tions “should by no means be suppressed.” They may be incor-
rect or correct, but personal interpretations should be stated as
such by the individual, should not lead to arguments, and
cannot be forced on other Bahá’ís.
3. a and c. See the #12, #13, and #14 on page 62. For answer “b,”
while our reason does help us to recognize the truth of God’s
new Manifestation, we are not to pick through the teachings one
by one, rejecting some and accepting others. Note that for
answer “c,” the teachings may “appear to be contradictory” but
in fact are “one great whole with many facets” (#14 page 62).
Regarding answer “d,” refer to the last paragraph on page 59
and to the third paragraph on page 31.
Answers
What does Bahá’u’lláh mean by “He shall not be asked of His
doings?” Why is this principle so important? (Refer to #4 on page
60.)
How can knowledge be “Satanic” when, as Bahá’ís believe, there is
no devil? (Refer to #7 on page 61.)
What is the meaning of intellectual pride as discussed in the lesson?
What is the proper role of intelligence and intellectuals in the Faith?
How can the Bahá’í Faith avoid intellectual pride while at the same
time avoiding the anti-intellectual feelings that have occurred in
religion in the past?
Discussion

Index for the
Word of God
The index provides references on the topic of the Word of God
from a wide range of Bahá’í books. The bold page numbers indi-
cate quotations used, at least in part, in this book; the corresponding
page number from The Word of God is included in parenthesis.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Foundations of World Unity.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
_____.  Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris in 1911.  11th ed.  London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1969.
_____.  The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delievered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His Visit to
the United States and Canada in 1912.  2nd ed.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
_____.  Secret of Divine Civilization.  3rd ed. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1975.
_____.  Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
_____.  Some Answered Questions.  5th ed.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
_____.  Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas.  Volume II.  New York: Bahá’í Publishing Society, 1909-16.
_____.  Tablets of the Divine Plan: Revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American Bahá’ís.  Rev.
ed.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1977.
The Báb.  Selections from the Writings of the Báb.  Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.  New edition.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1976.
Index Abbreviation:
FWU
PT
PUP
SDC
SAB
SAQ
TAB
TDP
SB
ES
Introduction
Bibliography

_____.  Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.  2nd edition.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976.
_____.  The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh.   Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1939.
_____.  The Kitáb-i-Íqán.  2nd ed.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950.
_____.  Prayers and Meditations.   Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1938.
_____.  Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1973.
_____.  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í Scriptures.  New York: Brentano’s, Inc., 1923
_____.  The Divine Art of Living.  New ed.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Education: A Compilation.  Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1977.
_____.  Bahá’í Meetings/The Nineteen Day Feast.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
_____.  The Importance of Deepening our Knowledge and Understanding of the Faith.  Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
_____.  The Individual and Teaching:  Raising the Divine Call.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1977.
_____.  Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation, and the Devotional Attitude.  Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice.  The Power of Unity.
Wilmette Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í Prayers.  Wilmette Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1982.
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice.  Bahá’í
Marriage and Family Life.  Wilmette Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
Rutstein.  Spirit in Action: Teaching the Bahá’í Faith.  Oxford: George Ronald, 1984.
Shoghi Effendi.  Citadel of Faith.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1965.
_____.  The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
_____.  The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  2nd edition.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice.  Living the Life: A Compilation. London.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1974.
Taafaki, Irene.  Thoughts: Education for Peace and One World.  Oxford: George Ronald, 1986.
Taherzadeh, Adib.  The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Volumes I, II, and III. Oxford: George Ronald,
1974-83.
The Universal House of Justice.  Wellspring of Guidance.  Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1969.
GL
HW
KI
PM
KA
TB
DAL
BE
BM/F
IDK
IT
SF
POU
BP
BMFL
CF
ADJ
WOB
LL
RBI, II, or III
WG

Images
ark of salvation, IDK 36
bread/food, PT 57
breeze, ES 42
city, KI 199
collective center, TDP 93-95
divine elixir, PM 54(23), 183,
200, 332
garment, GL 178
flame, GL 316
heaven, KI 49
horizon, KI 42
key, KA 11-12, TB 173(19)
king of words, PM 113, TB
173(23)
lamp/light, KA 11, GL
288(23), PUP 460
mother word/letter/tablet, GL
142(19)
ocean/sea, ES 150, GL 10,
326(50), 331, KA 27-
28, TB 173(19)
portal, GL 96(55)
remedy, TB 73(23, 30)
rivers of Divine utterance, GL
robe for body of mankind, GL
sapling/tree, SB 112, TB 93-
94(19)
shelter, SDC 74
sun, SB 105-6
touchstone, KI 227-28,
255(29)
water, TB 257(37)
wine, GL 328, KA 12
Nature
accompanied by oppression &
rejection, ES 81, GL
56-57, 82-84,
KI 31-32, 42, 82, 212-
all have capacity to recognize
signs,
GL 105-6, SB 103(29),
TB 89
beyond comprehension, KI 5,
98-99, 243
energies are latent, GL 77
Manifestation is Word
Báb, KI 252
Bahá’u’lláh, GL 104, 316,
SB 55
Jesus, SAB 60, SAQ 116-
17, 206(18)
return of the Word, KI 159-
third station of
Manifestation, FWU
67, SAQ 152-53, 206-
7(18)
Voice of Divinity, ES 140,
GL 54, 55, 56, KI 180-
82, PM 26, SB 98
overview, RBI 18-44(31)
powerful, penetrative,
influential, pervasive,
ES 75-76, GL 141, 200,
264, 286-87, 327-28,
IDK 20, SAB 291-93,
SB 98, TB 173(19)
revealed form of the Word
annuls previous words KI
39, 41-42
balance/standard, ES 128,
KI 4-3, 10, 220
different from words of
men, ES 42, GL 200,
286, KI 57-58, 98-99,
205, SB 43, 58, 104-5,
each dispensation,
KI 199(23)
fits capacity/needs of age,
GL 76-77, 81(28), 87-
88(28), 176, HW 19-20,
KI 181, SB 7, WOB
164-65
fore-ordained measure,
GL 74(28), 76-77
given to all peoples,
GL 96, 183, 289,
SB 45, TB 89(30)
God is source of the Word,
KI 147
language
both obvious &
concealed/symbolic,
254-55, GL 76-77, IDK
18, KI 49,
SB 112-13
contains hidden gifts,
treasures, mysteries, ES
58, HW 26-27, IDK 17,
29-30,
PM 83
new spirit, ADJ 82-83
pearls of wisdom, GL
327-28, IDK 18-20, KA
27-28
spiritual meanings, PUP
458-59
meaning inexhaustible, GL
175(29), 326, KI
255(29), IDK 28
power of Word released
gradually, GL 76-77
prerequisites for
understanding, KI 17,
211(27), 255(29), PM
progressive, GL 74-75, PM
128, SB 106, WOB
115(28)
proof of Manifestation, ES
114-15, 134,
GL 105, SB 131
reflects Will of God, ES 1,
GL 338
releases power, GL 95
Spirit breathes through, ADJ
82-83, PT 57(37)
uncovers mysteries/opens
doors of knowledge,
IDK 2(49), PM 113
words of Manifestation, GL
53-55, 74, PM 329, SB
112-13
differ, GL 52-53(28),
74(28), 78-79, 80-81,
217, KI 104, 176-78
reflect His deeds,
GL 257, KI 57-8
spiritual essence of Word
above limitations, SAQ
152(18), SB 112, TB
140-41(19)
cause of creation, BP
146(38), KI 98-99, PM
6, 138, 251, SB 159, TB
116, 140-41
Command of God/kingdom
TB 141(19),
SAQ 295(18)
First Will, SAQ 203(18)
a force, SAB 291, GL
200(40)
letters B&E, BP 13, 230
a power, SAB 53(40),
292(39)
preceded by God, GL
151(38),  KI 98-99
reveals without words,
KI 59
Will of God GL 141, KI
98(18)
Word separates & divides, GL
43, KI 228, PM 42, 296,
Pitfalls
corrupting/debasing Word, GL
325, KI 86-87
denying/repudiating, GL 80,
KI 214-16, 220
individual interpretations, GL
175-76, KA 23, KI 86-
7, 181-82, 213, SB 124,
WG 87-89(61)
intellectual pride, GL 10-11,
KI 69(61), 182(61),
WG 87-88(61)
literal interpretation, KI 26,
82, 255(29)
no regard for distinction of
Word, GL 198(62),
IDK 47(62),
TB 188(62)
pride, GL 315(59)
preconceptions, GL 11(60),
87(60), KI 192,
TB 141(60)
study as excuse for inaction,
ES 49(62), TB 51-
52(62), 71
Powers
creative
creates attributes &
releases power, GL 73,
141-42(38)
creates/re-generates new
life, brings dead to life,
ADJ 80-81, GL 29, 92-
93(38), IDK 34-35, KA
12, KI 59, SAB 37(55),
SB 159, TB 84, 97,
130-31, 141-42, 317,
WOB 107(38)
creates certitude/establishes
truth, GL 13(55), IDK
2(49), KI 219, TB 183
creates new capacity, SF
11(40)
generated Holy Spirit,
WOB 109
source of creation, (See
Nature)
magnetic/attractive
attracts love of God,
SB 99
attracts souls to God, DAL
45-46, 47,
GL 287, IDK 2, 34-
35(38), KA 12, PM
114, TAB 358(39), TB
collective center, TDP 93-
95(39)
draws confirmations,
SAB 241
lodestone of hearts,
GL 295, TB 256
lodestone of nations,
TB 200(39)
unifies/binds, GL 95, 286,
POU 55(55), SAB 20,
53, 291-93, TB 87
Index

transformational
detaches/purifies, GL 83,
238, 343, IDK 2, KA
12, 16-17, PM 114, TB
21, 238
heals spiritual ills,
GL 86, TB 183
quickens, ADJ 82-83,
PM 83
subdues hearts, TB 264
transforms
creation, GL 324, PM 42,
133, 138, 295, TB 259-
individual, ES 83, 115,
DAL 45, PM 27, 54,
GL 43, 183, 332-33,
IDK 20, SAB 23(40),
TB 18, 72, 84, 184,
200, 257(37), 317,
WOB 25(27)
humanity, ES 98, GL
286-87, 316, PUP 111,
SAB 293(40), 296(55),
TB 86, 89,97, 130,
200(39), 259-60, WOB
Purpose
act as proof/establish truth, ES
1, 115, GL 50, 105,
259, KI 91-92, 198-99,
203-6, 209, 219, 220-
21, PM 328, SB 104,
131, 211
announce advent of
Bahá’u’lláh, ADJ 77-
78, ES 2, 140-46, GL
13, 104,
WOB 117
benefit and protect humanity,
ADJ 26, ES 1, 12, 77,
166, GL 93(30), 95, 99,
162, 183, 206(30),
215(30), 260, 286,
289(30), KI 240-41,
PM 113, PT 61-62,
SDC 46, TB 21, 50, 72-
73(30), 86, 89(30), 96,
130, 162, WOB 25
unlock doors of knowledge,
science, etc., TB 96
educate/advance humanity,
FWU 94, GL 157, 259-
60, 97, IDK 8, KA 27,
PT 61-62, PUP 20-22,
84-85, SB 96, TB
73(30), 86
interpret past books, KI 28,
so man can:
attain true liberty, GL 96
bring dead to life, SAB 36-
37(55)
know his true self,
GL 287, TB 161
become cleansed and
detached, GL 67, 157,
know God, GL 174, 266,
KA 27-28, KI 195, PM
9, 130, 328, SB 207, TB
open hearts, GL 92(9)
praise God befittingly, PM
130, 297, 328-29
Use
daily obligatory prayer,
KA 36
dawn, GL 265
deepen/study, GL 10, 343,
IDK 2, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14,
18, 20, 21, 22(46), 23,
24, 28(46), 29, 34, 52,
KA 27-28, PT 22, 96
do not burden soul, SF 1(47)
effects of Word not always
obvious,
GL 295(39)
effort needed, CF 85(50),
ES 12(49), GL 10,
93(50), 262, 326(50),
IDK 17, 19, 20, 21, 51,
KI 16-17, 217, LL
15(50), PT 61-62(40),
TB 143(48)
exalt/promote Word, ADJ
24(48), BE 4, ES 37,
GL 137, 272, SAB 223,
295, TAB 348(48), TB
78, 256
family life, BE 8, 28, 40, 61,
64, BMFL 76, IDK 2,
SAB 139(49)
Feast/community gatherings,
BM/F 3, 5, 7, 17(49),
SAB 94, IDK 2(49), 10,
14(49), 32
gift of Holy Spirit,
IDK 51(50)
meditate/reflect, ES 12(49),
115, 144, 150, GL 13,
262(50), IDK 2, 12, 19,
KA 27, KI 16-17, 217,
238, PT 174-75, SAB
241, SF 14(48), 18(46),
TB 143, 200
memorize, BE 61, IDK 11, 18,
TB 200(49)
pray, DAL 45-6, IDK 2(46),
SF 13-14(48), 17-18
read/recite, DAL 58-59, GL
295(39), IDK 1(47), 2
read/study with attitude of:
attraction to God, IDK 8
detachment, ES 12, 147-48,
KI 68-9, 121-22, 160,
192-93, 238, 255(29)
for sake of God,
ES 12(49)
joy/radiance fellowship,
IDK 2(49)
purity of heart, IDK 6, 20-
21, KI 68, 192(60), PT
56-57(50)
selflessness & care,
IDK 21
spiritual mind, IDK 18
sweetness, GL 295
use inner and outer eye, GL
results of failing to seek
meaning, KI 105
search for inner meaning, DAL
58, KI 160, 172, PT 56-
57(50)
see through Manifestation’s
eyes, ADJ 77,
HW 14, TB 242
seek enlightment from learned,
HW 42,
IDK 6(29), KI 181-
82(60)
study word by word/deeply,
DAL 58, IDK, 18, 22,
24, 53, PUP 458-59(48)
teaching, ADJ 82-85, ES 12,
GL 286-87, SAB 33-34,
37, TB 42, 156, 197,
200(49), 237, 242, 256-
turn to God for assistance, IDK
6, 241, KI 122-31, PM
83, 101, 199, 192, PT
22, 56-57(50), 69-70,
SAB 190-91
transform words to action, GL
250(47), 316, IDK 11,
14, 18(50), 19, 46,
52(59),
PT 61-62
use Word morning & evening,
BE 40, IDK 2, SF 1
use Word with regard, TB 50
volition, GL 149(47)
Words
advice on use
avoid excess speech,
GL 129, KI 193(9)
be fair & just in speech, ES
consider words of men with
open mind,
GL 329, SB 134
do not backbite, curse,
revile, KI 193(7, 9),
SAB 230-31(9), TB
129, 219
match words & deeds, SAB
mention good, TB 219
not exceed deeds
TB 156(59)
truthfulness, GL 297, 305,
KI 24,
TB 138, 297
use to praise God, ES 6, TB
use with kindness,
GL 289(9), ES 15
conditions for effectiveness
consider time & place, TB
173(8), GL 176(9), IT
13(7)
good words, TB 85
leniency & forbearance TB
172-3
inspiration from God,
GL 303
moderation, TB 198-99(8)
teach self, GL 277
upright character, GL 335
uttered for sake of God, TB
172(8)
qualities of words
allow man to demonstrate
knowledge, TB 172(8)
clothe truth, GL 176(9)
endowed with spirit, TB
172-73(8)
have influence, TB 172-
173(8)
open the heart,
GL 304(9)
subdue the heart, TB 84