Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Twenty
‘Irfán Publications
Wilmette, Illinois, USA

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquium
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Cover design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
176 B.E. 2019 C.E.
ISBN 978-890688-76-2
Copyright © 2019, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

Behold, how many are the mysteries that lie as yet
unravelled within the tabernacle of the knowledge
of God, and how numerous the gems of His
wisdom that are still concealed in His inviolable
treasuries! Shouldest thou ponder this in thine
heart, thou wouldst realize that His handiwork
knoweth neither beginning nor end. The domain
of His decree is too vast for the tongue of mortals
to describe, or for the bird of the human mind to
traverse; and the dispensations of His providence
are too mysterious for the mind of man to
comprehend. His creation no end hath overtaken,
and it hath ever existed from the “Beginning that
hath no beginning”; and the Manifestations of His
Beauty no beginning hath beheld, and they will
continue to the “End that knoweth no end.”
Ponder this utterance in thine heart.
— Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán, π178

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................ 3
The Manifestation of God in the View of Process Theology
Roland Faber ........................................................................... 7
The Mystery of Consciousness: Learning from Neuroscience and Insights
from Bahá’í Sacred Writings
Jena Khadem Khodadad ........................................................... 55
Sow the Seeds of My Divine Wisdom in the Pure Soil of Thy Heart:
Towards Coordinating Langs’ Communicative Approach of
Psychoanalysis with the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang Klebel ..................................................................... 75
The Baha’i Writings and the Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness: An Initial
Survey
Ian Kluge ............................................................................... 99
Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh in Iran
Moojan Momen .................................................................... 139
Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
Vahid Rafati, trans. Adib Masumian ...................................... 161
Dei Verbum: A Bahá’í Perspective on the Roman Catholic Dogmatic
Constitution on Divine Revelation
Marco Oliveira ..................................................................... 197
An Analysis of the Salient Features of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
Foad Seddigh ........................................................................ 219
A Commentary on the Occultation Prayer, or Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
Provisional translation by Foad Seddigh .................................. 248
Elucidation
Social Action, Public Discourse, and Non-Involvement in Political
Affairs
The Universal House of Justice .............................................. 253

In Memoriam
Dr. Mehrangiz Afnan (1937-2018) ............................................. 259
Sohrab Arjmand (1935-2019) .................................................... 262
Lily Ayman (Áhy) (1929-2018) ................................................... 264
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations used in
this book ............................................................................... 271
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-19 .................................... 273
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ....................................... 288
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications ............................................ 288
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ................................. 289

Preface
Publication of this volume of the Lights of Irfan coincides with
the bicentennial celebration of the birth of The Báb, the dawn of a
new
cycle
in
the
spiritual
development
of
mankind.
The
manifestation of The Báb was soon followed by the divine
manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh, leading human society to the final
fulfillment of the prophecies of previous religions that have appeared
from time to time and spread in various regions of the world. Both
The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh revealed a very large volume of written texts
containing their teachings and plan of action for the realization of
the final goal, establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth. `Irfán
project aims at encouraging and promoting deeper and systematic
studies in those revealed words.
The Writings of the Báb, revealed in Persian and Arabic, are, so
far, only available in those two languages of revelation. The first step
is finding the original manuscript or authorized and reliable text for
each item of writing. The second step is publishing and making it
accessible. Then necessary action is taken to produce an authorized
translation of each item. A good example is a compilation of the
Writing of the Báb published in both original Arabic and Persian as
well as in English translation by the Bahá’í World Center. We
welcome articles conveying the contents of some of the texts
revealed by the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.
In this volume the contents of one of the major Writings of the
Báb, “Risaliy-i-Ja‘fariyyih”, is presented in two successive articles.
This treatise is revealed in Arabic, toward the very beginning of His
ministry. It is concerning, but not exclusively, the commentary on a
particular Islamic prayer for the advent of the promised Qá’ím. It
has fourteen chapters, only three of them are mainly concerning that
prayer. In the other chapters, He discreetly alludes to His real station.
“The Bahá’í Writings and the Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness”
and “Dei Verbum: A Bahá’í perspective on the Roman Catholic
Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation” are in the category of
comparative studies of Bahá’í Faith and various religious traditions.
The former article is an expansion of the section on emptiness in a

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
previous paper by the same author, “Buddhism and the Bahá’í
Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement” (Lights of Irfan, Vol. 8,
2007). This paper provides further evidence that despite differences
of expression, the Bahá’í Writings and Buddhist sutras show
agreements and strong convergences on the subject of emptiness and
offer additional support for Bahá'u'lláh’s teaching of the essential
unity of all religions. The latter article is an attempt to compare the
contents of each chapter of Dei Verbum (“Word of God” in Latin)
with the Baha’i teachings. Dei Verbum is described as Roman
Catholic authentic doctrine on divine revelation.
An example of interface of Bahá’í Faith and scientific disciplines
is discussed in “The Mystery of Consciousness: Learning from
Neuroscience and insights from Bahá’í sacred Writings” and
“Towards
Coordinating
Langs’
Communicative
Approach
of
Psychoanalysis with the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.” It is hoped that
such an interface studies are further increased and cover more
branches of science. “The Manifestation of God in the View of
Process Theology” is another example of such interface studies. It
discusses the resonances of the concept of Manifestation of God
with the philosophical tradition of process thought which is steeped
in history from Heraclitus to Hegel, yet it connects with Alfred
North Whitehead’s “philosophy of organism” and its religious
explanation in “Process Theology.”
Bahá’í sacred texts occasionally include accounts of history or
history related materials. In this volume, we have two examples of
studies of Bahá’í Writings related to historical subjects. “Two
Episodes from the life of Bahá’u’lláh in Iran” is an attempt to clarify
an event occurred to Bahá’u’lláh during the time that He lived in Iran
and reported in two of His Tablets which is different from what has
been recorded in history books. The other article is the translation of
an article on “Qá`im-Maqám Farahání in the Bahá’í Writings,” which
was published in Safini-yi- Irfán, Vol. 18. We always wished some of
the articles written in Persian or German and published in Irfan
publications in those languages be translated into English to be
presented in the Lights of Irfan. Now we are pleased that for the first
time one of the articles written and published in Persian is translated
into English and is in included in this volume. This article contains a
brief biography of Qá`im-Maqám Farahání, Grand Vazir of

Preface
Muhammad Shah Qájár and a close friend and associate of
Bahá’u’lláh’s father, and some samples of his writings and texts of the
Baha’i Writings related to him.
The section on Elucidations contain a recent message of the
Universal House of Justice clarifying various aspects of the principle
of non-involvement in politics, differentiating participation in
partisan politics from involvement in civil services which are also
considered political activities.
During the recent months we regretfully lost three of our dear
colleagues: Dr. Mehrangiz Afnan, Sohrab Arjmand, and Lily Ayman
(Áhy). Short biographies of these colleagues are presented in the
section “In Memoriam.”
`Irfán publications are supported by the generous and voluntary
contributions of the friends of the `Irfan Colloquium. It is hoped
that the continuation of such supports as well as the most valuable
collaboration of scholars would make it possible to continue `Irfán
project and services.
Iraj Ayman
May 2019

The Manifestation of God in the View
of Process Theology
Roland Faber
Shoghi Effendi presented the Bahá’í community with the challenge
to connect with current progressive movements of thought and
action;1 it is even envisioned that another institution on the Arc at
the Bahá’í World Center in Haifa will be built, a library of sorts that
would institutionalize such efforts permanently.2 One of these
movements, given my training and professional engagement in the
areas connecting religion and philosophy over several decades, is
process theology.3 Process Theology is a venerable tradition of
philosophical theology or a philosophy that does not exclude spiritual
and religious realities, even a very elaborate concept of God. It
originated with the Anglo-American mathematician and philosopher
Alfred North Whitehead (1861-1947), especially his work as a
philosopher at Harvard University commencing in the 1920s.4 Process
philosophy developed along with its theological sister in mutual
interaction with other concurrent streams of philosophical and
religious discourse, but found its most persistent form in “Process
Theology” as an expression of the implications of questions regarding
ultimate reality and God, cosmology and the place of humanity in the
cosmos.5 Although historically process theology found its first home
within progressive transformations of Christian thought, engaged in
social justice and ecological sensibility, feminist and liberation
theology, and discourses on science and religion,6 it is especially its

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
ability to address interreligious questions of religious pluralism and
the unity of religions across the boundaries of the east and the west7
and in light of Whitehead's emphasis on the development of a future
society of peace8 that should be of interest to Bahá’í thought and
scholarship.
Of the many points of contact between Whitehead, process
theology, and the Bahá’í universe of discourse that one could
elaborate on, I will focus on one of the central questions to which
process theology has developed its most creative contribution,
namely, how ultimate reality or God can be all-present in the world
and, at the same time, be manifest in the form of human figures such
as Christ, the Buddha, or Avatars such as Krishna, all of whom
Bahá’ís understand to be Manifestations of God. Process thinkers
have developed unique approaches of understanding “Christology” in
the sense of a human and divine figure9 in such a way that it genuinely
explicates the concept of the Manifestation of God (mazhar-i ilahi)
of Bahá’í provenance within its own thought patterns,10 but also
translates it in the multireligious context that the Bahá’í universe
accepts as central basis for claiming the fundamental unity of
religions.11
The following considerations will introduce to this unique
connection between process theology and related Bahá’í concepts by
highlighting their convergence in concentric movements from general
relations on matters of philosophy and theology to the view on
religion and cosmos, and to the notion of ultimate reality and God,
to finally flow into a discussion of the congruence and convertibility
of the concept of the divine Manifestation issuing from these
approximations. For this endeavor, I will pursue original quotes from
Whitehead’s works in this regard and comment on them in the Bahá’í
context, which also means to demonstrate the idea of Manifestation
as translatable in a multireligious context.
1: Philosophy in Process
The exploration of philosophy for the Bahá’í universe is still very
much in the making, that is, specifically in the western context.12 Yet
several elements can be identified as influential in the constitution of
conceptuality in the Bahá’í writings, and several implications for

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
future explorations may be noted. First of all, it is, of course,
necessary to recognize the philosophical influences that form the
historical context and commencement of the articulation of the Bábi-
Bahá’í religious complex: the immediate Shaykhi milieu of the birth
of the Bábi movement and its influence on the Báb as well as his
immediate disciples, the original Letters of the Living (and their
writings), who were mainly recruited from this background, several
of whom where highly educated and erudite thinkers in this
tradition;13 the wider Shi‘i and Sufi patterns of thought and living
that were primary modes of mediation for the message of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh;14 the influx of Jewish and Zoroastrian modes of thought,
as well as a wider Hindu context for some of the elaborations on the
implications of Bahá’u’lláh teachings, as well as being a fainter
context for Sufism, visible in the direct contacts of Bahá’u’lláh with
Sufi orders and inquirers, but also his occasional elaborations on
Hindu thought;15 and, finally (but not last), the Christian and diverse
western molds in which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, themselves
studying in, and traveling to, Europe and America, transposed the
Arabic and Persian linguistic complexities of the original Bábi-Bahá’í
writings with their own philosophical undercurrent into western
thought patterns and languages.16
On another level, philosophy proper itself became a mode of
critical and creative engagement of the Central Bahá’í Figures: with
comments on the worth and dangers of thought images, concepts,
and procedures;17 with references to diverse philosophers and sages,
often embracing the theological and religious connotations of their
own philosophies, sometimes criticizing their methodological or
ideological reductionisms as expression of a certain culture of
material progress over and against the association with spiritual
development;18 in exploring certain philosophical concepts themselves
such as were engrained in long-standing problems of the mind-body
or
matter-soul-spirit
discussions,
evolution
and
cosmology,
epistemology (modes of knowing) and ontology (modes of being);19 in
explorations of philosophical theories with regard to ultimate reality
in monistic and dualistic categories;20 by intensely probing questions
of human nature and its status in a world of impermanence;21 and in
following diverse philosophical developments of the time in the form
of a differentiation of their qualities and claims to truth.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Finally, all Central Figures made comments on philosophy or
philosophies, or more broadly, different concepts of philosophy in
more eastern and western instantiations: on “Theosophy” or “Divine
Wisdom” (hikmat), philosophical wisdom teachings in the wake of
Ibn ‘Arabi and his diverse streams of philosophical tradition,
including the Persian metaphysical tradition manifest in Suhrawardi
(philosophy of light, Illuminist philosophy) and Mulla Sadra, as well
as the Persian Poet-philosophers, such as Rumi and Hafez (among
many others) — a term that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá retained even in western
contexts to indicate philosophy, or philosophical theology, in
contradistinction to materialist philosophies of the west;22 on Greek
philosophy, such as that of Pythagoras, Plato, and Aristotle as
fundamental expressions of western philosophy;23 and in general with
statements relating the importance and worth of philosophy as field
of knowledge, different from, but related to, religion and its specific
theological expressions, but especially as connecting to an
interreligious context or comparative studies of religion in which
many philosophies in the east and the west are harbored or from
which they have emancipated themselves.24
In all of these engagements with, and appellation to, philosophy as
valuable expression of humanity as humanity and as important
instrument of reflecting on deep questions of existence, we can sense
a fundamental affirmation of the philosophical project by the Bahá’í
writings.25 While sheer intellectualism is viewed through a critical
lens,26 any overstatement against thought and reason are refuted in
strongest terms. “The Reality of man is his thought,” [PT #2] ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says, indicating that investigations of the intellect are a primary
gift of God to humanity and inevitable for the continuing relevance
of religion.27 “When religion is upheld by science and reason we can
believe with assurance and act with conviction, for this rational
faculty is the greatest power in the world” [ADP 102].
Philosophy as methodological use of intellect and reason in order
to engage with questions of reality and truth is, therefore, an
implication of the spiritual search after reality, often translated as
“independent investigation of truth” — a basic Bahá’í principle of
utmost importance, so much so that it is often mentioned first in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s conveyance of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í
teachings in the west.28 Yet, as mind, intellect, and reason, are not the

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
only sources of human insight — at least in need of coherences with
empirical testing (especially in the western context) and intuition (the
mystical insight, irfan, of generally more eastern provenience) as well
as tradition (be it religious or philosophical), this cannot lead us into
assuming that philosophy itself must end in any rationalist
reductionism;29 on the contrary, as Whitehead’s whole philosophy
demonstrates, all philosophical insights must be in resonance with art
and poetry, on the one hand, and coherently relating reason and
empirical experiment, on the other.30 In fact, this makes philosophy
an indefinite endeavor of approximation to reality and truth, an
adventure in thought, as “all productive thought has proceeded either
by the poetic insight of artists, or by the imaginative elaboration of
schemes of thought.” Hence, “[r]ationalism never shakes off its
status of an experimental adventure.”31
As, in Whitehead, philosophy is open to religious experience and
empirical reality,32 so does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá value both approaches of
philosophy to reality. “Philosophy is of two kinds: natural and divine.
Natural philosophy seeks knowledge of physical verities and explains
material phenomena, whereas divine philosophy deals with ideal
verities and phenomena of the spirit” [PUP #105]. And as this duality
cannot become a dualism without destroying the fabric of experience
of reality as one interrelated whole, Whitehead with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
affirms the search for the philosophical understanding of the one
Reality that expresses itself in infinite modes, but is, nevertheless, an
emanation of unity in which nothing can be (viewed) in mere
opposition to one another.33 Rather, in the last analysis, we must seek
to overcome intellectualism with its binary categories of thought in
the non-duality of mysticism (‘irfan, ma‘rifa) and its fresh
articulation in ever-new categorizations of relationality.34 Hence,
says ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “I will speak to you upon the intrinsic oneness of
all
phenomena.
This
is
one
of
the
abstruse
subjects
of
divine philosophy” [PUP #110]. And Whitehead confirms that
“philosophy is mystical. For mysticism is direct insight into depths as
yet unspoken. But the purpose of philosophy is to rationalize
mysticism: not by explaining it away, but by the introduction of
novel verbal characterizations, rationally coordinated.”35
While the term process philosophy has mainly been used for
Whitehead's philosophy and philosophies in the wake of his work,36 it

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
is, in fact, an ancient tradition of which Whitehead is aware and in
which he positions himself consciously. In the eastern context, it goes
back to radically processual forms of thought and understanding of
reality in Indian and Chinese modes of thinking to which Whitehead
feels his articulation of Process more akin than to most western
expressions of substance thinking so that his philosophy “seems to
approximate more to some strains of Indian, or Chinese, thought,
than to western Asiatic, or European, thought,” because “[o]ne side
makes process ultimate; the other side makes fact ultimate.”37 In the
western context, Whitehead commits himself to the ancient
preference of Becoming over Being, Heraclitus over Parmenides.
While the famous circumscription of process in Heraclitus proposes
that “you cannot step into the river twice”38 and “everything changes
and nothing stands still,”39 Whitehead illuminates this insight with the
paraphrase: “No thinker thinks twice; and … more generally, no
subject experiences twice.”40
Thought is always in process, as is reality. “We are in the present;
the present is always shifting; it is derived from the past; it is shaping
the future; it is passing into the future. This is process, and in the
universe it is an inexorable fact.”41 Process is fundamental to reality
because of the infinite potentials that are unrealized in the world of
becoming. It is, then, an infinite process of the actualization of
potentials inherent in the past realizations of the cosmos for which
“philosophy should make it easier to conceive the infinite variety of
specific instances which rest unrealized in the womb of nature.”42
Without going into any detail of the inner workings of this Process in
Whitehead's philosophy at this point,43 we can identify its basic
meaning by understanding the world as process of processes of which
all things are expressions, that is, themselves processes of their
becoming. Yet the character of this processual nature of all
happenings in this world of becoming, and on every level of existence
from stars to human beings, is not just actualization of potentials,
but realization of values,44 a process of deciding between potentials
to be realized or to be excluded in order to create a more and always
(in any situation) most valuable world: “The generic aim of process is
the attainment of importance, in that species and to that extent
which in that instance is possible.”45

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
2: Theology in Process
It is interesting to recognize that the Bahá’í Writings’ attitude
toward the study of religion, at times, seem to exhibit a critical
access to what in western parlance generally is called “theology,” yet
in the Islamic context was reflecting less on the Christian notion of
theology but on the Islamic combination of dogmatic theology and
legal reasoning of divines often harboring direct impacts on local or
more general definitions of orthodoxy. It is not theology as
intellectual engagement with religion, revelation, and scripture,
however, with which the Bahá’í writings are primarily concerned in
critical counter-distinction, but with expressions of religious
orthodoxy that leans to establish power structures in religion and
society, be it through striving for positions of power or the hybrids
of intolerance and ignorance.46 Of course, this situation is no
stranger to Christian orthodoxies at different times with their similar
powers of restriction by which any deviant view could be in danger
of persecution and death.47
While this has not much to do with theology as practiced in
contexts of critical distance to such orthodox expressions of power,
instead seeking truth and creative innovations leading thought into
liberating modes of engaging society for justice and peace,48 we find
Whitehead in line with such a criticism akin to the Bahá’í writings if
theology was to be understood as such an expression of power over
and against the impulses of the scriptural radicalism of humility and
non-violence, tolerance and inclusivism, exhibited by the biblical
representation of the Jesus tradition.49 Hence Whitehead can concur
in spirit with the Bahá’í writings when he affirms that “[w]hen the
Western world accepted Christianity, Caesar conquered; and the
received text of Western theology was edited by his lawyers,” but
that this development contradicted “[t]he brief Galilean vision of
humility flickered throughout the ages, uncertainly.”50
While Whitehead is disappointed in Christian theology insofar as
it followed Cesarean expressions of power, he did not dismiss the
philosophical engagement with theology and the relation it bears with
religion, revelation, and scripture.51 In fact, he understood the best in
the Christ event as an expression in practice, or as a manifestation,
of the best in philosophical theology: of a move away from viewing

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
God as a coercive force to that of a persuasive “force without
power”; of peace, not war; and of a tenderness of love operating in
the world of humanity and the cosmos alike.52
It is the business of philosophical theology to provide a
rational understanding of the rise of civilization, and of the
tenderness of mere life itself, in a world which superficially is
founded upon the clashings of senseless compulsion. I am not
disguising my belief that in this task, theology has largely
failed. The notion of the absolute despot has stood in the
way.53
Whitehead, therefore, related the independent investigation of truth,
the business of philosophical theology, to the adventure of truth over
against that of power — philosophy as impassionate look at all
motivations in light of truth and reality, but not impassionate to the
non-violent creation of a future civilization of peace while critical to
any such passion if it motivates and degenerates into blockages
hindering this process to succeed.54 Truth in a world of becoming
must allow for the recovery of the suppressed and of novelty, as in a
world of process reality must become, realize new possibilities, and
its best potentials in new situations; and God becomes an expression
of this movement.55 In other words, as Bahá’í teachings would
suggest: divine grace has never stopped engaging with the world;
revelation is an ongoing process of creating such a civilization of
peace and of seducing us to means and ends coherent with such a
vision.56 It is in this precise sense, and not any predilection for the
way Aristotle bound his vision to a substance view of reality (over
against a process view),57 that Whitehead accepts and takes up anew
Aristotle’s project.
Aristotle found it necessary to complete his metaphysics by
the introduction of a Prime Mover — God. … [H]e was
entirely
dispassionate;
and
he
is
the
last
European
metaphysician of first-rate importance for whom this claim
can be made. After Aristotle, ethical and religious interests
began to influence metaphysical conclusions.58
In dispassionately following the impulse of truth over power,
Whitehead relates to Aristotle’s notion of God as Prime Mover. It is

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
of utmost importance to understand this move in the sense it is
introduced here. Interpretations of this concept have generally always
gone astray when they identify God as Cause of everything. While
Aristotle accepts the notion of efficient causation, we have, today,
not the least because of science, come to identify the effective cause
with the only causality allowing us to rationally and empirically
explore the world over and against all mythological and fantastic,
supernatural and religious, claims of divine action on and in the
world. In a closed causal circle, only natural causes are allowed,
excluding not only spiritual renderings of reality, but in effect all
non-material references to human reality: that of aesthetics and
ethics; of motivation and purpose; and of meaning and general human
values such as love, peace, justice, unity, and relationality.59 Against
such materialist reductionisms, unfortunately, certain renderings of
efficient causation were applied to divine activity by defining God as
First Cause, as efficient cause of creation, as ultimate causation of
world — in the sense of one of Thomas Aquinas’s primary
demonstrations of the existence of God from nature (quinque viae).
Yet this is not the meaning Aristotle gave his Prime Mover and it
is not the meaning that Whitehead recovers from this statement.
What Aristotle means, here, is not any efficient cause that creates an
effect by coercion, by pull and push, by external setting or
influencing, but what he called a final cause. This means a cause that
operates from the front, from the future, from the ideal; its power is
persuasion, seduction, creating desire for fulfillment. This is an
internal cause that awakens that which happens to its best
possibilities, luring it to their realization and to become the best it
can be at any moment and in any situation. God as Prime Mover is
not at the beginning, not a ground of creation, not in the past as
pusher, not a powerful tyrant who crushes, but the attractor, the aim,
the goal of fulfillment and satisfaction.60 In Whitehead's words, God
“is the supreme Eros incarnating itself as the first phase of … the new
process of actuality.”61 And as God lures toward the realization of
the best possible in any given situation, this God is not the creator of
the word from nothing, but the aim and goal of any happening in an
eternal creation, an infinite world without beginning and end.62
Whitehead's universe involving this divine process is as infinite and
always in process of becoming and renewal as is the universe
according to the Bahá’í sources and scriptural references.63

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
We can immediately sense what difference such a theology in
process would make: tenderness instead of force; love instead of
power; persuasion instead of coercion; freedom instead of
oppression; the immanence of God in all happening instead of
distance; finding reality in lures of fulfillment instead of arbitrary
and merely external rules.64 Hence, for Whitehead, the task of
theology is this insight into this attractive eternity within
impermanence: “We ask of Theology to express that element in
perishing lives which is undying by reason of its expression of
perfections proper to our finite natures. In this way we shall
understand how life includes a mode of satisfaction deeper than joy
or sorrow.”65
The philosophical element of this theology, then, has important
critical and creative functions. It is an expression of the fundamental
unity of reality66 that, while “independent” from any limited
motivation, is essentially related to both science and religion — hence
also essentially relating religion and science, as the Bahá’í writings
categorically insist.67 “Philosophy frees itself from the taint of
ineffectiveness by its close relations with religion and with science,
natural and sociological. It attains its chief importance by fusing the
two, namely, religion and science, into one rational scheme of
thought.”68 Yet it is also an expression of the pre-rational intuition or
universal vision by which we perceive of the whole of reality before
and beyond conceptual differentiation, to which it must give ear
because in it has already enveloped the potential of divine revelation
before and beyond human categories and intellectual limitations.69
And considering the implication this has for the transformation of
human society, the philosophical mind seeks the adventure of such a
vision in process in order to revivify civilization.70 Hence,
“philosophy is akin to poetry,” as “both of them seek to express that
ultimate good sense which we term civilization,” and the “use of
philosophy is to maintain an active novelty of fundamental ideas
illuminating the social system. It reverses the slow descent of
accepted thought towards the inactive commonplace.”71 It is in this
sense that theology is held open for the unprecedented, the event of
divine presence, and new forms of understanding the world in
process. Nothing is foreclosed, and we are immersed in an infinite
process of becoming for which we must learn to use the articulations
of our experiences and insights in a destabilizing way so that all

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
conceptual stabilizations can “remain metaphors mutely appealing
for an imaginative leap.”72
Process theology, now, based on the work of Whitehead, has
become a very differentiated endeavor following these prompts
toward a cosmology of becoming; an epistemology of transformation
and novelty; a social understanding of revivification in ever new
forms of organic developments; and a theology that can transgress
fixed boundaries of religious integrities and orthodoxies engaging
diverse religions in the east and the west with their different pattern
of thought and outlook of worldview.73 It has in the last hundred years
or so embraced diverse and diversified positions regarding all of these
matters, which I will not rehearse here, but which I have documented,
interpreted, and developed in a host of publications over the last two
decades.74 What I want, instead, to demonstrate, here, is rather how
these multireligious developments rest on Whitehead's understanding
of ultimate reality and the availability of this understanding for the
central Bahá’í concept of the Manifestation of God.
We have already encountered three basic parameters of
Whitehead's process theology: God as Eros, as Attractor, internally
evoking movement as one of novelty and the establishment of value;
the infinite openness of such a world process to the ever-new
production of value and meaning; and the unending processual
openness of divine reality to this world process, or its grace of
unending revelation. Three further elements will suffice, here,
establishing the conceptual relevance of Whitehead's philosophical
parameters for a theology of this world process. First, ultimate reality
in a world of process is immanent to it as a measure of achievement
and perfection and can be expressed as the personal character of a
friend: “There is a rightness [in things, which] … is a revelation of
character, apprehended as we apprehend the characters of our
friends. But in this case it is an apprehension of character
permanently inherent in the nature of things.”75 Beyond simple
alternatives between a personal God or an ultimate reality as moral
law (dharma), Whitehead immediately connects with Bahá’u’lláh’s
affirmation of the mystery of the “The Friend” in which reality
achieves its existence and meaning, but also its non-dual limit and
ego-less nothingness.76

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Second, Whitehead affirms that all religions, when in conjunction
with reason can, in a philosophical theology,77 be understood in such
a way that they express a unique outlook on existentiality as
manifestations of their unique divine experiences that always
transgress mere reasonability and closed mental projections. “The
doctrines of rational religion,” Whitehead says, “aim at being that
metaphysics which can be derived from the super-normal experience
of mankind in its moments of finest insight.”78 These insights, which
are related to the extraordinary figures of saints and sages, but also
to figures to which religions relate as their founders and inspirers,
prophets
and
divine
appearances,79
are
not
irrational,
but
“surrational,”80 that is, in their own right valuable to and
inexchangable in the philosophical endeavor, which in their
multiplicity is to be expected in a world of becoming in which divine
novelty has never ended.81
Third, for process theology, religion is an unending process that,
in accordance with these unique revelations of divine reality, must,
therefore, itself never recoil into its own sedimentations. In other
words, no religion can claim finality; there will always be a new
measure of revelation. Religion must become the home not of
conservation of the past, but in even greater measure of novelty and
inspiration by reality, divinity, and temporality.82 It is in this sense
that Whitehead understands religion akin to science: “Religion will
not regain its old power until it can face change in the same spirit as
does science. Its principles may be eternal, but the expression of
those principles requires continual development.”83 In accordance
with Bahá’u’lláh’s criticism of the opposite attitude, that of the
orthodox limitation of understanding to the past, theology must be
the endeavor to appreciate this changeability in light of new
experiences and revelations, being the basis of, and motivation for,
new religions.84 I will come back to the implications of these features
of process theology in relation to religion and God later. But first, I
must venture deeper into the inner workings of Whitehead's
philosophy that make these parameters possible.
3: Event, Creativity, and the Universe
Whitehead expounds a fundamentally relational understanding of
the universe, which, in its impermanence or permanent becoming, is

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
not just an expression of fading and illusion, but of creativity, of
divine encouragement to become — become what it could be, what it
should be, what it already is and always was, but with the potential of
an ever anew actualization of its hidden creative and relational
essence.85 Hence, the universe does not consist of things or of (for
unclear reasons) fixed states of brute facts and essences, substances
and stabile entities the movement of which is and remains external to
them. On the contrary, the universe, as it harbors only beings that are
already internally related to everything else, is a moving whole of
relations that actualize themselves in events of becoming, always
anew and unceasingly. Nothing is just what it is, unchanging, and
moving only as an external exhibition of a clash of forces like billiard
balls. The universe is not constructed from either atoms in empty
space or independent things encountering one another just by
accident or an external order of push and pull or of decreed laws of
nature or of God. Rather, everything that exists is already the whole
universe, however faint the influences may be of the vast background
of the myriad happenings that constitute the universe as a whole, in
this moment, in this actualization, at this place, unique and
unrepeatable.86 Yet, as there are persistent things and beings without
which there would not be any groupings of events to things,
persistent throughout time, for instance, as societies and persons,
structures appear as repetition of these influences on every
happening in the universe in ever-new series of events, forming more
or less stable organisms, societies, and persons. And since every
happening is also a decision whether to repeat or to change such
structures to the extent that it is in its situation and on its level of
complexity able to do so, everything on whatever level of existence,
from the elementary particle to human persons, has some degree of
freedom and creative potential for becoming different, for better or
worse.87
So the fundamental “entities” in this universe are not substances,
independent and needing nothing in order to exist, or being able to
persist through time as the same, but events, that are all-relational,
constituted by everything: the facts of their past and the potential
inherent in them, but as of yet unrealized, and even possibilities not
actualized anywhere. The basic event-constitution of the universe in
its becoming (or stability as repetition of the same structure in always
new generations of happenings) is not external to it like an acting

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
subject on passive objects or a mathematical axiom on its
mathematical entities, but (almost in reverse) the internal perception
(Whitehead calls this relation “prehension”)88 of the relational
influences out of which an event actively constitutes its unique
unification, as a realization of its creative potential, and its self-
surrender to the flow of becoming beyond itself in which it will have
importance and influx for the process at large.89 “The novel entity is
at once the togetherness of the ‘many’ which it finds, and also it is
one among the … ‘many’ which it leaves; it is a novel entity … among
the many entities which it synthesizes. The many become one, and are
increased by one.”90
All beings are becomings in the same sense that “[i]n the language
appropriate to the higher stages of experience, [its] primitive element
is sympathy, that is, feeling the feeling in another and feeling
conformally with another.”91 And, hence, such sym-pathy, the feeling
of others, which are themselves feelings of other relations they accept
as internal “essence” of their self-constitution, demonstrates that the
“general common function exhibited by any group of actual
occasions is that of mutual immanence.”92 While “‘becoming’ is a
creative advance into novelty,”93 on the scale of the structural
complex organization of the cosmos into nested spheres of organisms
and environments with their own emergent and mutually sensitive
rules, such an organization is the more alive the more it allows
novelty to enter the picture, change to alter fixed structures, history
to create new conditions, and so on.94 The ingredient of novelty in
any event varies according to the overall organization of the
environment and the organisms that allow for more or less
integration of novelty and change in their becoming such “that an
organism is ‘alive’ when in some measure its reactions are inexplicable
by any tradition of pure physical inheritance.”95
In Whitehead's universe, creativity is the ultimate reality
immanent in all events.96 “‘Creativity’ is the principle of novelty. An
actual occasion is a novel entity diverse from any entity in the ‘many’
which it unifies. Thus ‘creativity’ introduces novelty into the content
of the many, which are the universe disjunctively.”97 Creativity is the
moving “energy” (without doing anything since it is not a thing or
event or substance) of unification and multiplication, growing
together and transitioning into a new context in which all unification

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
becomes again a moment in the ongoing process of the renewal of the
universe.98 “For the creativity is not separable from its creatures.
Thus the creatures remain with the creativity. Accordingly, the
creativity for a creature becomes the creativity with the creature, and
thereby passes into another phase of itself. It is now the creativity
for a new creature. Thus there is a transition of the creative action,”99
by which the universe never comes to a standstill — no beginning or
end constrains that process; only the process itself, in the decisions
imposed by every event on the universe, constrains its “history” and
renewal. Or in more poetic language: “The creativity of the world is
the throbbing emotion of the past hurling itself into a new
transcendent fact. It is the flying dart, of which Lucretius speaks,
hurled beyond the bounds of the world.”100
In this sense, we can “speak in the singular of The Universe, …
which can be translated as Process. There is the one all-embracing fact
which is the advancing history of the one Universe.” This universe is
the whole community of the world’s becomings exhibiting an all-
embracing, immanent, and relational “matrix for allbegetting, …
whose essence is process with retention of connectedness.”101 As
every event in this relational matrix becomes in the actualization of
potential directed toward the realization of values of more intensity
and harmony, creating a world suggesting (but not forcing to realize)
the greater good, the wonder, the harmony of ever more refinement,
Whitehead understands the “teleology of the Universe [as being] …
directed to the production of Beauty. Thus any system of things
which in any wide sense is beautiful is to that extent justified in its
existence.”102
Because the world process proceeds in the production of beauty,
that is, maximal intensity with maximal harmony at any given
moment, in any given society, and in the universe as a whole, as its
very movens, Whitehead, in a subtle and suggestive move, sees this
inherent “worthing” as the place of the witnessing, experience,
perception, and intuition of God in the universe.103 Instead of
imagining God as effective cause, as controlling power, as chief
moralist and external force (as the substance model would imply and
the monarchical model of a king merely complements by suggesting
the subduction of “his subjects”), here, God is the internal beauty,

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
intensity, and harmony of harmonies, internally motivating and
driving the universe to its most refined realization of its potentials.104
The order of the world is no accident. … The religious insight
is the grasp of this truth: That the order of the world, the
depth of reality of the world, the value of the world in its
whole and in its parts, the beauty of the world, the zest of
life, the peace of life, and the mastery of evil, are all bound
together — not accidentally, but by reason of this truth: that
the universe exhibits a creativity with infinite freedom, and a
realm of forms with infinite possibilities; but that this
creativity and these forms are together impotent to achieve
actuality apart from the completed ideal harmony, which is
God.105
God comes into play as the ideal harmony, as the “harmony of
harmonies”106 and as the reality in which this harmony is always most
intense. The universe, in its own turn, is a process of the
actualization of its harmonies and intensities that are available in any
event at any given cosmic situation, on different levels of existence
(from the stone to human persons), and to the degree that this history
of the cosmos and the organismic structures of environments and
beings to which such environments are patient allows. As this process
is never external in its relational becoming, and because God appears
in it as the harmonious ideal (the prime mover) seducing the
becoming relations of the universe as they actualize themselves in
events and complex societies of events, into patterns of degrees of
order and freedom, experience and consciousness, and aesthetic and
ethic valuation in all existents, the picture that arises from this
process universe is one of an unimaginable, infinite process, a world
of great beauty and the risk of failing its realization, of an adventure
that lives from the mutual immanence of God and the world, and the
mutual immanence of potentials to be realized, creativity to be
actualized, and divine wisdom to be the ideal inherent in any such
actualization as well as its whole process.107
The present type of order in the world has arisen from an
unimaginable past, and it will find its grave in an
unimaginable future. There remain the inexhaustible realm

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
of… forms, and creativity, … and God, upon whose wisdom
all forms of order depend.108
It is a universe of becoming and perishing, to be sure, but one in
which nothing is lost.109 Like the phoenix, it is a universe of spiritual
ascension from the ashes of perpetual perishing. “The universe shows
us two aspects: on one side it is physically wasting, on the other side
it is spiritually ascending.”110 As this is both a process of becoming
and fading, of indefinite impermanence, the presence of the ideal
harmony (God) as the movens of the whole process is not enough: the
creation of order in any form will be exhausted; no structure is
salvific per se; no achievement of goodness and beauty, intensity and
harmony in this universe will bring solace to the impermanence on
which it is built. This all may be a sign of this ideal, but also a
question: In what way can God be salvific? In what way can the ideal
harmony of harmonies, immanent in the whole process, also be the
harvest of its achievements? These questions direct us back to the
function of the religions and the meaning of the concept of God as
they relate to a world in becoming.
4: Religions and God
Before venturing somewhat into the inner workings of the process
universe, we have left the question of religion and God with six
characteristics that can now be taken up again in order to understand
more clearly the impact of process theology on their reality and
conceptualization.
These
six
characteristics
(without
being
exhaustive) have been: (1) God as internal Attractor, not as external
cause; (2) the immanence of God in the world process as production
of value, not as controlling the perpetuation of a world in vain; (3)
the unending revelation of God to the world as novelty, not as self-
same order; (4) religion as recognition of a rightness inherent to the
process of the universe revealing a character of the divine Friend, not
any tyrannical power obsessing with arbitrary rules; (5) the diversity
of the characteristics of religious harvests of this divine character as
unique forms of divine presence, not as deviations from a fixed pre-
ordained program; and (6) the unending process of religious renewal
in light of such dynamic divine presence, instead of an fixation on

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
certain limited appearances as definition of divine reality, binding it
to the past as if it were fulfilling all possibilities of realization.
Religions, for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, are embodiments of divine Reality,
pointing to the One beyond and in all things and happenings so as to
discern the value in them and of them for themselves and beyond
themselves for the All and God;111 they are the yearnings towards the
eternal in the impermanent, the realization of meaning in the
temporal (realizing oneness), and the expression of divine peace112 —
not as a mere idea, but as the foundation of existence.113 These are
also the insights conveyed by Whitehead's philosophy based on the
cosmological and experiential premises just reviewed.114 Three quotes
may substantiate this resonance. The first quote is one of the most
beautiful and poetic renderings of the nature of religion, its
intention and meaning, in philosophical literature.
Religion is the vision of something which stands beyond,
behind, and within, the passing flux of immediate things;
something which is real, and yet waiting to be realized;
something which is a remote possibility, and yet the greatest
of present facts; something that gives meaning to all that
passes, and yet eludes apprehension; something whose
possession is the final good, and yet is beyond all reach;
something which is the ultimate ideal, and the hopeless
quest.115
This vision of religion clearly embodies the six characteristics:
religions are about the integration of the ineffable Beyond, the
unknowable and inconceivable divine Reality, into our human and
cosmic reality by recognizing the becoming world as enveloped and
permeated by, and being attracted to, the greatest of “facts”, the
“final good,” the “ultimate ideal,” the ultimately “real” within the
flux of things, which within is beyond and always before its
movements, realized in the actualization of its attributes and always
moved to transcend any realization as just one in a process that is
already always, through divine grace, beyond itself transmuted into
divine Reality.116 The vision of religion, here, is that of a salvific
experience in the midst of impermanence, elucidated in the second
quote.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
The fact of the religious vision, and its history of persistent
expansion, is our one ground for optimism. Apart from it,
human life is a flash of occasional enjoyments lighting up a
mass of pain and misery, a bagatelle of transient
experience.117
The experience of salvation, here, is not one of finding only
individual meaning in a sea of misery and pain, the rumination of
desire for and enjoyment of fulfillment, but a process of cosmic
importance in which the universe as a community of becoming
extracts from its expansion an unconstructed Reality at its heart, and
references experiences of undeconstructable meaning; a meaning that
flows through the world process with an unobstructed vision of
realization.118 Religion, as the third quote demonstrates, is, therefore,
if it fulfills this vision, the true energy of unification for civilization.
The great social ideal for religion is that it should be the
common basis for the unity of civilization. In that way it
justifies its insight beyond the transient clash of brute
forces.119
This brings us to the concept of God in such a cosmology of flux
and permanence, implicit in Whitehead's rendering of the function of
religion, in the ideal sense embodying (though in practice not always
following the experience of the ideal) divine Reality as the true
movens of the world process toward the realization of its utmost
values and their ultimate unity.
[God] is the binding element in the world. The consciousness
which is individual in us, is universal in him: the love which is
partial in us is all-embracing in him. Apart from him there
could be no world….120
God and the world — in Whitehead's process view of the universe (of
which humanity is a highly developed expression) — exhibit a mutual
movement: of that of the world toward the ideal divine Reality,
which, however, is not an empty ideal in front of it, but the very
ground permeating every event as its ideal of realization in the flux
of actualizations of its best potentials in any given situation; but also
that of Reality toward the world, offering its own transcendent

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
vision of the creative process as that of a “divinization” by becoming
embodied in it as initial “eros” and as “final aim.”121
The theme of Cosmology, which is the basis of all religions, is
the story of the dynamic effort of the World passing into
everlasting unity, and of the static majesty of God’s vision,
accomplishing its purpose of completion by absorption of
the World’s multiplicity of effort.122
What is more, both movements find their confluence in the passing
of the world, in every moment of its actual achievement of events
and patterns of approximation to this Reality, into God’s perception
of the world, transmuted into God’s perfection, and released again
into the world process.123
[God’s] purpose in the world is quality of attainment. …
Every act leaves the world with a deeper or a fainter impress
of God. [God] then passes into his next relation to the world
with enlarged, or diminished, presentation of ideal values.124
It is in this sense of mutual immanence that Whitehead — in his Six
Antitheses125 — ventures into one of his most challenging and
audacious formulations on the relationship of these two movements.
The last three of the six antitheses will suffice to feel the impact they
may
have
on
any
non-relational,
monarchical
model
of
conceptualizing God.
It is as true to say that the World is immanent in God, as that
God is immanent in the World. It is as true to say that God
transcends the World, as that the World transcends God. It is
as true to say that God creates the World, as that the World
creates God.126
Mutual immanence, mutual transcendence, and mutual creation!127
God and the world are entangled in a non-dualistic movement beyond
dualism and monism, illusory conceptual differentiation and
identification, non-different, but in mutual alterity, beyond simple
categorization.128 In another mode, Whitehead circumscribes this
mutual movement as the essence of the creative process itself, a
process that captures our epistemological limitations by which we try

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
to simply differentiate God from the world by opposing them — the
world of impermanence, the God of permanence, and so on —
transforming
them
into
one
creative
movement
beyond
simplification,
but
always
only
finding
their
meaning
in
actualizations of the movements themselves, the religious experience
in which they become the essential character of religious existence.
God and the World are the contrasted opposites in terms of
which Creativity achieves its supreme task of transforming
disjoined multiplicity, with its diversities in opposition, into
concrescent unity, with its diversities in contrast.129
Because of the mutual immanence of God and the word as these
non-different movements towards one another, never identical, never
simply different, this non-dual movement of mutuality stated, here, is
not only that between the world and God, but also one between all
happenings in the world and in God. If no event is non-relational, but
is rather always the becoming-one of such relations into a novel unity
of events that then again become part of the rhythm of the world
process of a moving whole of processes of this nature, all processes
are dipolar, that is, in flux and permanent, in time and beyond,
material and ideal, physical and mental, and so on, in which polarity
Whitehead paradigmatically captures at once the inescapability of
relationality and process as the mutual immanence of God and the
world: mind and matter, consciousness and senses, ideal and
perception, and so on.130 And so does God exhibit both poles non-
dually, which Whitehead names the Primordial and Consequent
Natures of God:131 divine Consciousness of all possible worlds and
divine Perception of all actualizations of creativity in the myriads of
creatures and their relationships, broken or whole; divine Creativity,
hosting and providing all possibilities as values of best realization,
and divine Transmutation of the worlds achievement and misses of
value or divine attributes; divine Attraction through immanent ideals
that release every event into its own creativity and divine Harvest of
this creativity in patient suffering of its outcomes, but also in divine
Judgment and transformation into God’s all-relational nature; divine
Wisdom, seducing to the Good, and divine Love, saving everything
into God.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
[God] has a primordial nature and a consequent nature. The
consequent nature of God is … the realization of the actual
world in the unity of his nature, and through the
transformation of his wisdom. The primordial nature is
conceptual, the consequent nature is the weaving of God’s
physical feelings upon his primordial concepts.132
Again, this conceptualization of God is not of violent action,
oppression, or the arbitrary sovereignty of despots, but of love and
attraction; not of “power,” but of harmony: not of subduing and
control, but of the mutual immanence of the Poet of the world; not
of division, but of the movement of harmony of harmonies.133
God’s role is not the combat of … force with …force …; it lies
in the patient operation of … harmonization. [God] … is the
poet of the world, with tender patience leading it by his
vision of truth, beauty, and goodness.134
Regarding one direction, the non-dual movement of mutual
immanence from God toward the world (in which both natures are
involved, of God and all world processes), this means: The order of
the world, its evolution, history, realization, and perfection, is not
that of arbitrary laws or external decrees, but one of inherent
patterns of processes of attraction, of a love that tends to all
happenings, of mutual perception and relationality, of sympathy, that
is, mutual knowing und patient suffering of one’s existence by the
All and God; it is “aesthetic” order, refinement in light of the Beauty
of Reality. Beauty is the “form” of the immanence of God in the
world as a whole and in any process and all of them, attracting to
patterns of mutual recognition and creative movements of
unification that value such interrelatedness.
All order is therefore aesthetic order, and the moral order is
merely certain aspects of aesthetic order. The actual world is
the outcome of the aesthetic order, and the aesthetic order is
derived from the immanence of God.135
Regarding the other direction, the non-dual movement of mutual
immanence from the world toward God (in which all events and God
engage with their inherent polarity), this means: Salvation,

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
transformation of the world into the Kingdom of God (Consequent
Nature), is the realization of the truth and revelation of the true
value of any happening for itself, for the world as it happened and
happens, and for God, in God’s Wisdom (Primordial Nature),
regardless of any world that has been or will be realized.136 This
salvation is harvest, perception, judgment, and transformation in
God for all events and any world.
[God] saves the world as it passes into the immediacy of his
own life. It is the judgment of a tenderness which loses
nothing that can be saved. It is also the judgment of a
wisdom which uses what in the temporal world is mere
wreckage.137
Together, in the mutuality of these non-dual processes between
God and the world and within them, a view of the universe arises that
can now address the becoming of the world in light of the divine
Reality as a unity in becoming that, at no point, lacks divine
presence, but never, at any point, fulfills it, either.138 The “unity of
being” (wahdat al-wujud) is not a monistic dissolution of reality into
Reality, here, but the mutuality of love in which the polarity of these
movements non-dually become one, one movement of mutuality, one
love in unity of diversity, one adventure of existence, in its beauty
exhibiting its only justification for existence, but aware of the risks
and failures of such an adventure and the salvific nature of its
relationality becoming the expression of peace.139
The Adventure of the Universe starts with the dream and
reaps tragic Beauty. This is the secret of the union of Zest
with Peace: — That the suffering attains its end in a Harmony
of Harmonies. The immediate experience of this Final Fact,
with its union of Youth and Tragedy, is the sense of Peace.140
God, the unknowable Beyond — beyond any access of praise or
imagination of projected worldly power into God’s nature — has
become the unimaginable greatness that our existence hides and only
reveals if it discovers the immanence of God in which all becomes
revealed as immanent in God, and in which immanence the world
process becomes transparent as a process of the realization of God,

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
because “[e]very event on its finer side introduces God into the
world.”141
The depths of [God’s] existence lie beyond the vulgarities of
praise or of power. [God] gives to suffering its swift insight
into values which can issue from it.142
5: The Manifestation of God
The figure and concept in which all of these elements collected so
far come together, in the Bahá’í universe, is that of the Manifestation
of God — as process, God-manifesting (zuhur), and as event, God-
manifest (mazhar). It means (1) the figure in which (in Whitehead's
terminology) the non-dual movements of mutual immanence of God
and the world reside; (2) the theophany in which the Adventure of the
Universe converges, as in it the process of Youth and Tragedy, Eros
and Harmony of Harmonies becomes visible; (3) the concept that
always points beyond praise and power; and (4) the sacred person in
which the suffering of the world is transformed in the transparency
of (the love of) Reality — as divinization and as humanization; as
permeation and as transcendent circumambulation; as hidden silence
and as brilliant light; as immanent soul of the cosmic body and as the
One beyond all characterization, even that of being and
nothingness.143
In perhaps no other symbol than the Bahá’í Ringstone pictogram
do we find the coalescence of these elements more intensely
harmonized, the symbol of the whole divine-cosmic process being
eminently and as a whole “identified” as that of the (figure, site,
concept, and theophany of the) Manifestation itself.144

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
Yet before I proceed to explore these connections further, I must
acknowledge two questions that might have arisen in the meantime so
as to clear the way from potential misunderstandings. The questions
are these: As Whitehead's notion of God is eminently interwoven
with that of the world process: in what sense does this mutual
immanence reflect or differ from the insistence of Bahá’u’lláh on the
unknowability of God and the ir-relationality between God and the
world?145 And, if Whitehead's God is so eminently “incarnated” in
every event of the world process: how are we to understand the
extraordinary theophany in rare sacred figures in the history of
humanity as the Manifestations of God?
Without being able to go into any technical details about the
concept of the Manifestation in its complexity and background,146
but in light of the previous exploration of Whitehead's understanding
of the world process as divine process, the answer to both questions
is quite simple: For Whitehead, we cannot talk about God beyond
relationality; hence, no access to God beyond the world process is
possible. The general “incarnation” of Whitehead's God in the world
process as its attractive and attracting eros is, therefore, most intense
in processes that have been transformed into nothing but the
transparency of this universal divine process in the world, that is,
exhibit this all-relationality (of love) in the life of persons that are,
thereby, the theophany of divine Reality, being in this sense
concurrently both (fully) divine and human.147 The insight that I hope
is arising from this characterization is this: that the divine-cosmic
process of mutual immanence is the universal process of God
becoming manifest (zuhur) and that, therefore, Whitehead's “God” is,
in fact, (nothing but and precisely) the Manifestation of God
(mazhar-i ilahi).148
Let me back up this approach by a few quotes of Whitehead,
approximating this point of insight, before elucidating the thesis
directly in my final considerations. First, Whitehead is well aware
that religions cannot be reduced to doctrines and rituals, but must be
anchored in human persons who present themselves to the world as
ultimate Reality “in person.”149 Although the relation between
religions and Manifestations in the Bahá’í understanding is in itself
complex,150 they can be exemplified directly, for instance, in Christ

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
and the Buddha, as the following corroborating quotes from
Whitehead demonstrate.
Religions commit suicide when they find … inspirations in
their dogmas. The inspiration of religion lies in the history of
religion.151
Buddhism and Christianity find their origins respectively in
two inspired moments of history: the life of the Buddha, and
the life of Christ.152
The lives of these Manifestations of God exhibit the “life of God” in
the form of exemplification, realization, and sacrifice, and imply a
whole different mode of divine power than we might assume in
anthropomorphic modeling of divinity on clashes of force,
conflictions, and coercion. In fact, as in Bahá’u’lláh’s recollection of
the history of such Manifestations in his Book of Certitude and many
other writings, it is a sign of their transparency of Reality that they
rather suffer the world than to imitate human impulses of violence.153
So says Whitehead about the impact of the life of Christ:
The life of Christ is not an exhibition of over-ruling power.
Its glory is for those who can discern it, and not for the
world. Its power lies in its absence of force. It has the
decisiveness of a supreme ideal, and that is why the history of
the world divides at this point of time.154
As this would be true for all Manifestations, the following quote can
be generalized to all of them, too — with regards to the
characterization of Manifestations as revelation of the nature of God
and the character such a life exhibits in making divine agency in the
word transparent.155
The essence of Christianity is the appeal to the life of Christ
as a revelation of the nature of God and of his agency in the
world. … [It] evoked a response from all that is best in human
nature. The Mother, the Child, and the bare manger: the lowly
man, homeless and self-forgetful, with his message of peace,
love, and sympathy: the suffering, the agony, the tender

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
words as life ebbed, the final despair: and the whole with the
authority of supreme victory.156
In light of these characterizations of the Manifestations of God as
persons in which the nature and agency of God in the world process
becomes transparent, Whitehead risks a prophecy on the future of
religion as the future of such a religion that would become the site of
such a manifestation of God (zuhur), and which may exhibit it in a
Manifestation of God (mazhar) of that very nature.
I hazard the prophecy that that religion will conquer which
can render clear to popular understanding some eternal
greatness incarnate in the passage of temporal fact.157
In what sense, then, does the Manifestation of God display these
characteristics of a divine-cosmic process, transparent in a person of
such nature as to manifest the divine permanence in the flux of
things? For this, I return to the Ringstone symbol and its congruence
with the divine-cosmic movement of mutual immanence in
Whitehead's process theology.
The Ringstone symbol is a complex image consisting of artistic
renderings of the two Arabic letters ba and ha. They do not only
form the initials of Bahá’u’lláh (while the third letter of BHA’, the
alif, remains hidden) with which he, for instance, signed his Book of
Certitude.158 They are rather “real symbols” of a complex cosmology
of creative divine letters presenting and initiating the realities of the
hiddenness of God’s inaccessible essence, God’s huwiyyah (ha), and
the creative process, which begins with the hidden alif, but manifests
with the second letter of the Arabic alphabet, the ba, a pictogram of
a ship afloat with a point below it, the point from which all creation
flows.159 Their mutual interweaving in the Ringstone symbol, then,
indeed, presents us with the process of creation as a divine process in
which the hiddenness and manifestness of God intertwine160 and, as a
whole, form the divine-cosmic process of the manifestation of God
(zuhur) besides which there can nothing be or become.161
The understanding of this creative process implies, in the
Ringstone symbol, another feature that is vital for the further
discussion of its congruence with Whitehead's process theology,
namely, that the universe is not a mere impermanent flux of events

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
and processes, but exhibits layers of intensity and complexity that in
the mystical cosmologies of the Sufi background and the writings of
the Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá amounts to infinite worlds beyond
the physical one, which can on occasion be signified into three or five
layers of emanation or spiritualization, but form altogether the one
world process as a divine process.162 Sometimes they are in their
writing symbolically simplified into the triad of the World of God,
the World of Command or Revelation, and the World of Creation.163
In other contexts, they can be expanded to another correlated
symbolization (used by Bahá’u’lláh and also symbolized in Sufi
language) of five layers: the world of Creation and Humanity (khalq,
nasut), the Kingdom of God (malakut), the realm of divine Powers
(jabarut), the world of the Will and Mind, Spirit, and Word of God
(lahut), and the Hidden Inaccessible Divinity (hahut).164
What is important in either of these differentiations is this: the
whole process of emanation (creation) and spiritualization (return to
God) symbolized with these worlds and spheres not only indicates the
divine-cosmic process of manifestation (zuhur), but as a whole and
its layered differentiation comprises the Bahá’í concept of the
Manifestation of God (mazhar). The human person in which Reality
as a whole is transparent is the transparency of this whole process.
The Ringstone symbol as a whole stands for the immensity of what it
means to be the Manifestation of God. I will now correlate these
differentiations as enshrined in the Ringstone symbol of Bahá’í
mystic cosmology of the manifestation of God (zuhur) with
Whitehead's divine-cosmic process and his concept of God,
indicating it to present us with the expansive concept of the
Manifestation of God (mazhar).165
Although Whitehead for many of his interpreters seems to have
developed a “flat cosmology” in which the Process of the Universe is
a connected micro- and macro-cosmic, interpenetrated, creative
movement of ordering that, while infused by divine Eros in any event
of its happening, seems to represent the physical universe we perceive
as the only one we live in, he was well aware of the necessity to
differentiate this universe into layers of organization.166 From the
widest form of expansiveness, as the space spanned by all events of
the universe, he builds up a nested cosmology in which the wider
“society” of processes forms a “field” of reference that is the

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
environment of organisms such an environment allows to exist, but
in turn makes such organisms organizations of a layer of the universe
that are themselves environments for more developed, specified, and
sophisticated
organisms.
Dimensions,
forces,
fields,
material
organizations, life, and mind, appear as such nested environments
and organizations of related organisms — with the greatest liberation
of life and mind in human persons and societies, as they allow for
degrees of freedom and creativity as well as embodiments of
originality, which expresses itself in consciousness, reason, intellect,
and spiritual sensitivities.167 As these characteristics are not just
appearing out of nothing in humanity, but are enshrined in the whole
process of existence in various degrees of intensity and organization,
the world has in all of its layers a spiritual dimension.168 Like ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s all-pervading divine Spirit, all “worlds” of matter, life, and
mind are expressions of degrees of freedom of the embodiment of
Spirit.169
Yet Whitehead goes further — again like ‘Abdu’l-Bahá170 — in
claiming that there is no end to possible worlds beyond and above
such expressions, for instance, by audaciously stating that there is no
metaphysical reason that all worlds in their organization necessarily
must imply the loss of their past achievements when allowing for
novelty, new and possibly more refined forms of life and mind, or
degrees of spiritual embodiments.171
The most general formulation of the religious problem is the
question whether the process of the temporal world passes
into the formation of other actualities, bound together in an
order in which novelty does not mean loss.172
With this general trans-temporal assumption, we can now follow the
cosmic-divine mutual immanence of the relationship of God and the
world in direct resonance with the threefold or fivefold movement of
emanation and spiritualization as represented by the Ringstone
symbol.173 On the material, human, and historical plane of the world
process — the World of Creation, nasut, represented by the lower
horizontal ba-ha of the Ringstone symbol — Whitehead senses the
spiritual Beyond as immanent, but different from it, namely, as a
sense of the Kingdom of God (malakut) in the immediacy of its
happenings. Again exemplified by the figure of Christ, Whitehead says:

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
[This] Galilean origin of Christianity … does not emphasize
the ruling Caesar, or the ruthless moralist, or the unmoved
mover. It dwells upon the tender elements in the world, which
slowly and in quietness operate by love; and it finds purpose
in the present immediacy of a kingdom not of this world.174
This spiritual Kingdom — the World of Command, the Kingdom
of Life, malakut, represented by the intermediate horizontal ba of the
Ringstone symbol — Whitehead identifies as the perceptive, saving,
and transformative Consequent Nature of God.175 In a sense, like in
Sufi and Bahá’í renderings, everyone lives in both worlds, nasut and
malakut, as every event forms a person in the physical world and in
the divine transformative memory.176 It is the transhistorical
dimension of all human Manifestations, in which they are divine
Persons of different character and mission.177
[God] is the ideal companion who transmutes what has been
lost into a living fact within his own nature. He is the mirror
which discloses to every creature its own greatness.178
Yet beyond this transformative perceptivity of God (the
Consequent Nature), Whitehead knows of the initiative, creative, and
ideal aspect of God, the Primordial Nature, as the one in which all
possibilities and possible worlds are conceived, related, and suggested
to every event and process for its own fulfillment of greatest
intensity and harmony with the whole universe (and the particular
societies and organisms to which it is immediately related).179 This
layer presents us with the higher aspect of the intermediate ba of the
Ringstone symbol, jabarut, the World of Ideal Powers, the
transhistorical world of divine values and purposes, in which all
Manifestations are interwoven in the manifold of all divine
attributes, powers, virtues, and potentials.180 Of this divine
dimension, Whitehead says:
This ideal world of conceptual harmonization is merely a
description of God [God]self. Thus the nature of God is the
complete conceptual realization of the realm of ideal
forms.181

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
Insofar as Whitehead can summarize both the Primordial and the
Consequent aspects of God, jabarut and malakut, as the (ideal and
actual) Kingdom of God, and identifies this Kingdom with God,182 we
approach the “identity” of the upper horizontal ha-ba of the
Ringstone symbol, the “World of God” in a more focused sense,
differentiated (in the fivefold formula) into lahut and hahut. When
Whitehead says: “The kingdom of heaven is God,”183 he indicates the
divine creative-receptive act of unification, in which both aspects of
God are indifferentiated into the Oneness of the Wisdom of God.184
It represents the indifferentiated unity of all Manifestations in the
Manifest-Divine, the Mind, Will, Sprit, Word, and Wisdom of
God.185 While lahut, for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, presents us with the unity of
all divine attributes and the hidden divine sphere of all ideals and
forms, it also signifies its emanation from the hidden inaccessibility
of the Unmanifest-Divine, hahut, which cannot be represented.186 In a
turn of Whitehead's insight that nothing can be said of anything that
has no relation to the all-relational divine-cosmic process as a whole,
we may now understand this limitation not as a closure toward or
from nothingness (as there can be no absolute nothingness, neither
for Whitehead nor Bahá’u’lláh),187 but as surrender to the mystical
unknowability of the unmanifest Godhead Beyond.188
[A]ll related experience must exhibit the same texture … of
bearing in itself its own warrant of universality throughout
all experience, provided that we confine ourselves to that
which communicates …. But what does not so communicate is
unknowable, and the unknowable is unknown ….189
Finally, we are left with the vertical ba of the Ringstone symbol,
which some have identified with the divine Spirit spanning all of
these worlds from lahut to nasut, hiding hahut as its background,190
which could now also be understood as the interwovenness of all the
worlds, the divine cycle of love though all worlds, cutting through
any mutual isolation, indicating the mutual immanence of the
movements of emanation and spiritualization, and the unity of the
Manifestation of God (in the symbol) as a whole as the Divine
Manifold in which it operates between indifferentiated unity and
historical embodiment.191 Whitehead characterizes this cycle of love
thus:

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
What is done in the world is transformed into a reality in
heaven, and the reality in heaven passes back into the world.
By reason of this reciprocal relation, the love in the world
passes into the love in heaven, and floods back again into the
world. In this sense, God is the great companion — the
fellow-sufferer who understands.192
In summary, in my understanding, we can say: The divine-cosmic
process presents us with the immanence of God in all events, while
Whitehead's concept of God indicates the divine dimension of this
process of mutuality in the mutual embrace of emanation and
spiritualization in an unending cycle of love.193 As a whole this
divine-cosmic process is the Manifestation of God of which the
human
persons
in
which
it
becomes
transparent
are
its
Manifestations.194 In apophatic silence, Whitehead and the Bahá’í
writings acknowledge the unknowable Beyond as inaccessible, and,
therefore, identify “God” with the manifestation of the divine
dimension of Process.195
6: Conclusion
The central Bábi-Bahá’í concept of the Manifestation of God not
only has its own history related to diverse religious and philosophical
traditions confluent in its uniqueness, such as that of divergent
Islamic denominations, Sufism, and other Jewish, Christian,
Zoroastrian, and even Hindu streams of thought and belief. It also
displays exciting resonances with the philosophical tradition of
process thought, which is itself steeped in history from Heraclitus to
Hegel in the west and Daoism and Buddhism in the east. Yet it
connects especially with Alfred North Whitehead’s philosophy of
process and relationality, and its religious explications in what has
come to be called process theology. As process theology asks deep
philosophical questions regarding God and ultimate reality as well the
spiritual and cosmological reality of the world and humanity, it has
provided a connecting place within a multiplicity of religious
traditions of the east and the west. Its ability to perform the role of a
contact theory in interreligious discourses and religious pluralism
renders it a preeminent candidate for the reflection on the profound
expression of God’s Manifestations in the Bahá’í writings, in the

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
search for mutual interreligious understanding, the vision of a unison
of religions, and the establishment of universal peace. In the present
considerations, I concentrated on the way process theology may
facilitate such a mediation between diverse religious traditions by
highlighting its potential of understanding the concept of
Manifestation as a universally accessible reality from within diverse
religious traditions and, thereby, of connecting to notions such as
Incarnation, Avatar, and Buddha-body in amicable and non-distorting
ways, but without losing its own uniqueness among them.
Several authors in the field have succeeded in relating Whitehead's
notion of the world process and God to questions of human
Manifestations of God in these diverse traditions, for instance, by
exploring how the Christian claim to Incarnation, of the concurrent
divine and human natures of Christ, can be understood without
violating either divinity or humanity, that is, by avoiding
simplifications of absorption, in the Bahá’í context identified with
the Islamic theory of the “incarnation” of Godself into a body
(hulul), or of the Arian bifurcation, by which the Manifestation of
God is not “really” God, but a being in between.196 Several authors
have also tried to differentiate such a process view of Incarnation
from the reality of the Buddha,197 such that the latter one would not
indicate a personal presence of the Process God (in both natures), but
the “other” ultimate in Whitehead's metaphysical thought, namely,
Creativity — the nameless, immanent, and non-personal absolute of
the creative process itself.198 Others have connected the general
“incarnation” of God in any world event (Whitehead's aesthetic
immanence
of
God
in
the
world
process)
with
personal
approximations of extraordinary saints such as represented in Jainism
or Hinduism, without claiming their divinity, although expressing
divine attributes such as omniscience.199
In the preceding considerations, I have suggested an entirely
different approach: that, without denying the usefulness of the other
theses, the more expansive perspective on the concept of God and the
mutual immanence of the divine-cosmic process in Whitehead would
indicate that “God” in Whitehead's rendering is the divine aspect of
the Manifestation, emanating from its oneness and circulating
through the creative process, manifesting itself on the cosmic level
and in human reality, and reabsorbing the process in a cycle of love

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
again into its inaccessible unity, without violating the different
spheres or worlds while they remain intertwined and inextricably
interwoven; instead, relating them as one divine process of
differentiation and unification. Thus, in fact, all Manifestations of
God would be (the transparence of) ultimate Reality “in person” by
embracing all of these levels of ideal, transhistorical, historical
differentiation, and of unification in the divine identity of the Will,
Mind, Word, Wisdom, and Spirit of God, which is God, that is,
everything we can name and know of God,200 without violating the
inaccessible Beyond from which the whole divine process arises
“without syllable and sound”201 and in which it is absorbed and
without a trace.202
As with the symbol of the Dao, the inaccessible mystery of God
that releases the Manifest from the Unmanifest in the Ringstone
symbol cannot be symbolized: the Dao that can be named is not the
Dao.203 Yet it releases in its symbolization the myriad processes of
unification and diversification from which the universe springs and
in which it is harbored.204 In this sense, the Manifestation of God is
God in Whitehead's sense (the Manifest Divine), and is not God (the
Unmanifest Divine). Yet the same Manifestation is the expansion of
the whole divine-comic process of the mutual immanence of God and
the world in the non-dual processes of emanation into difference and
reabsorption into indifferentiated unity.
Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to
declare: “I am God,” He, verily, speaketh the truth, and no
doubt attacheth thereto. For it hath been repeatedly
demonstrated that through their Revelation, their attributes
and names, the Revelation of God, His names and His
attributes, are made manifest in the world. … And were they
to say, “We are the Servants of God,” this also is a manifest
and indisputable fact. For they have been made manifest in
the uttermost state of servitude, a servitude the like of which
no man can possibly attain. Thus in moments in which these
Essences of Being were deep immersed beneath the oceans of
ancient and everlasting holiness, or when they soared to the
loftiest summits of Divine mysteries, they claimed their
utterances to be the Voice of Divinity, the Call of God
Himself. [GWB #22]

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l Bahá, Commentary on the Islamic Tradition ‘I Was a Hidden
Treasure’, transl. by Moojan M205omen, in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, 3:4
(1995): 4-35.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh Basít al-Haqíqa).
Introduced and Translated by Moojan Momen: “Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh Basít al-Haqíqa). In Lights of Irfan, 11
(2010): 203–21.
Joseph Bracken, The Divine Matrix: Creativity as a Link between East and
West. New York: Orbis Books, 1995.
Keven Brown,. “A Bahá’í Perspective on the Origin of Matter.” In The
Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 2:3 (1990): 15–44.
Keven Brown, “‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Response to the Doctrine of the Unity of
Existence,” in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 11:3-4 (2001): 1-29.
Keven Brown, “Hermes Trismegistos and Apollonius of Tyana in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh’s In Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Studies in the Bábi and Bahá’í
Religions. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997, 153–88.
Keven Brown, ed., Evolution and Bahá’í Belief: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's Response to
Nineteenth-Century Darwinism. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2001.
Keven Brown, “‘‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Response to the Doctrine of the Unity of
Existence,” in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 11:3-4 (2001): 1-29.
Vahid Brown, “The Beginning that Hath No Beginning: Bahá’í Cosmogony,”
in Lights of Irfan 3 (2002): 21-40.
Christopher Buck, “A Unique Eschatological Interface: Bahá’u’lláh and
Cross-cultural Messianism,” in Peter Smith, ed., In Iran: Studies in Bábí
and Bahá’í History. Vol. 3. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1986, 157-180.
John Cobb, Beyond Dialog: Toward a Mutual Transformation of
Christianity and Buddhism. Philadelphia: Fortress Press 1982.
John Cobb, Christ in a Pluralistic Age. Philadelphia: Westminster, 1975.
John Cobb, Process Theology as Political Theology. Philadelphia:
Westminster Press, 1982.
John Cobb, ed., Religions in the Making: Whitehead and the Wisdom
Traditions of the World. Eugene, OR: Cascade Books, 2012.
John Cobb and David Griffin, Process Theology: An Introductory
Exposition. Louisville: Westminster John Knox, 1976.
John Cobb and Christopher Ives, eds., The Emptying God: A Buddhist-
Jewish-Christian Conversation. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1990.
Juan Cole, “Behold the Man: Baha’u’llah on the Life of Jesus.” In Journal of
the American Academy of Religion, 65:1 (1997): 47–71.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Juan Cole, “The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings,” in Bahá’í
Studies 9 (1982) @ http://bahai-library.com/cole_concept_manifestation.
Juan Cole, “‘I am All the Prophets’: The Poetics of Pluralism in Bah.’.
Texts.” In Poetics Today, 14:3 (Fall 1993): 447–76.
Juan Cole, “The World as Text: Cosmologies of Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa'I,” in
Studia Islamica, 80 (1994): 145-163.
A Compilation on Scholarship. Compiled by the Research Department of the
Universal House of Justice, Bahá’í World Centre, February 1995.
Brianne Donaldson,. Creaturely Cosmologies: Why Metaphysics Matters For
Animal and Planetary Liberation. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2015.
Garry Dorrien, The Making of American Liberal Theology: Crisis, Irony, and
Postmodernity 1950-2005. Louisville, KY: WJK, 2006.
Roland Faber, “Baha'u'llah and the Luminous Mind: Baha'i Gloss on a
Buddhist Puzzle,” in Lights of Irfan 18 (2017): 53-106.
Roland Faber, The Becoming of God: Process Theology, Philosophy and
Multireligious Engagement. Portland, OR: Wipf & Stock, 2017.
Roland Faber, The Garden of Reality: Transreligious Relativity in a World
of Becoming. Lanham, MD: Lexington, 2018.
Roland Faber, “De-Ontologizing God: Levinas, Deleuze and Whitehead,” in
Catherine Keller and Anne Daniell, eds., Process and Difference: Between
Cosmological and Poststructuralist Postmodernism. New York: State
University of New York Press, 2002, 209-234.
Roland Faber, “Laozi, A Lost Prophet? The Challenge of the Dao De Jing for
the Bahá’í Universe of Discourse,” in Lights of Irfan 19 (2018), 37-110.
Roland Faber, God as Poet of the World: Exploring Process Theologies.
Louisville: WJK, 2008.
Roland Faber, The Divine Manifold. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2014.
Roland Faber, Prozeßtheologie. Zu ihrer Würdigung und kritischen
Erneuerung. Mainz: Matthias Grünewald Verlag, 2000.
Roland Faber, “’Must 'religion' always remain as a synonym for 'hatred?’:
Whiteheadian Meditations on the Future of Togetherness,” in Roland
Faber and Santiago Slabodsky, eds., Living Traditions and Universal
Conviviality: Prospects and Challenges for Peace in Multireligious
Communities. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2016, 167-82.
Roland Faber, “The Sense of Peace: A Para-doxology of Divine
Multiplicity,” in Catherine Keller and Laurel Schneider, eds., Polydoxy:
Theology of Multiplicity and Relation. London: Routledge, 2011, 36-56.
Roland Faber, “Surrationality and Chaosmos: A More Deleuzean Whitehead
(and a Butlerian Intervention),” in Roland Faber and Andrea Stephenson,
eds., Secrets of Becoming: Negotiating Whitehead, Deleuze, and Butler.
New York: Fordham University Press, 2010, 157-177.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
Roland Faber, “The Mystical Whitehead,” in Marc Pugliese and Gloria
Schaab, eds., Seeking Common Ground: Evaluation and Critique of
Joseph Bracken's Comprehensive Worldview. Milwaukee, WI: Marquette
University Press, 2012, 213-34.
Seena Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,” in Interreligious
Insight 1:3 (2003): 42-49.
Lewis Ford, The Emergence of Whitehead’s Metaphysics 1925–1929. Albany:
SUNY, 1984.
William Garland, “The Ultimacy of Creativity,” in Lewis Ford and George
Kline, eds., Explorations in Whitehead’s Philosophy. New York: Fordham
University Press, 1983, 212–38.
David Griffin, ed., Deep Religious Pluralism. Louisville, WJK, 2005.
Idris Hamid, The Metaphysics and Cosmology of Process According to
Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa’i: Critical Edition, Translation and Analysis of
Observations in Wisdom. Ann Arbor, MI: UMI, 1998.
Charles Hartshorne, “Whitehead’s Revolutionary Concept of Prehension,”
in Charles Hartshorne, ed., Creativity in American Philosophy. Albany:
SUNY, 1984. 103–13.
Brian Henning, The Ethics of Creativity: Beauty, Morality and Nature in a
Processive Cosmos. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2005.
Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. New Deli:
Bahá’í Publishing, 2010
Thomas Hosinski, Stubborn Fact and Creative Advance: An Introduction to
the Metaphysics of Alfred North Whitehead. Lanham, MD: Rowman and
Littlefield, 1993.
Paul Humphrey, Metaphysics of Mind: Hylomorphism and Eternality in
Aristotle and Hegel. Albany: SUNY, 2007.
Rick Johnson, “The Active Force and That Which Is Its Recipient: A Bahá’í
View of Creativity,” in Journal of Bahá’í Studies 27:4 (2017): 29-60.
Gordon Kaufman, God — Mystery — Diversity: Christian Theology in a
Pluralistic World. Minneapolis: Fortress Press, 1996.
Ian Kluge, “Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings,” (2009) @
www.bahaiphilosophy.com/philosophy-and-the-baha-i-writings.html.
Ian Kluge, “Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan 5
(2004): 109-162.
Stephen Lambden, Some Aspects of Isrā'īliyyāt and the Emergence of the
Bābī-Bahā'ī Interpretation of the Bible. Dissertation: Newcastle
University, 2002.
Stephen Lambden, “The Background and Centrality of Apophatic Theology
in Bábi and Bahá’í Scripture,” in Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press,
1997.
Laozi, Tao De Ching: The Definite Edition. Translation and Commentary by
Jonathon Starr, New York: Jeremy P. Tarcher/Putnam, 2001.
William Leue, Metaphysical Foundations of a Theory of Value in the
Philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. Ashfield: Down-to-Earth Books,
Jeffrey Long, “Anekanta Vedanta: Toward a Deep Hindu religious
Pluralism,” in David Griffin, ed., Deep Religious Pluralism. Louisville,
Westminster John Knox, 2005, 130-145.
Zaid Lundberg, “The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive
Revelation,” in Lights of Irfan 1 (2000): 53-67.
Bijan Ma‘sumian, “Baha’u’llah’s Seclusion in Kurdistan.” In Deepen, 1:1
(1093): 18–26.
Jay McDaniel, Gandhi’s Hope: Learning from Other Religions as a Path to
Peace. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 2005.
Michael McCarron, “Symbolic Cosmology in the Sufi and Bahá’í
Traditions.” Bahá’í Reference Library (1997) @ http://bahai-library.com/
mccarron_symbolic_cosmology_sufism.
Sallie McFague, The Body of God: An Ecological Theology. Minneapolis:
Fortress Press, 1993.
Jack McLean, “Introduction,” in Jack MacLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Studies in the Bábi and Bahá’í
Religions. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997.
Jack McLean, “Prolegomena to a Bahá’í Theology.” In The Journal of Bahá’í
Studies, 5:1 (1992): 25–67.
Robert Mesle, Process Theology: A Basic Introduction. St. Louis: Christian
Board of Publication, 1993.
Moojan Momen, Bahá’u’lláh: A Short Biography. Oxford: Oneworld, 2007.
Moojan Momen, “The God of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan Momen, ed., The
Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003.
Moojan Momen, Hinduism and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George Ronald,
1990.
Moojan Momen, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam. New Haven: Yale
University Press, 1985.
Moojan Momen, Islam and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George Ronald, 2000.
Moojan Momen, “Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community.” In Lights of Irfan,
3 (2002): 107–20.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology
Moojan Momen, “Relativism: A Basis For Bahá’í Metaphysics,” in Moojan
Momen, ed., Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Los
Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1988, 185-218.
Moojan Momen, ed., Scripture and Revelation: Papers Presented at the First
Irfan Colloquium. Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.
Nicholas Rescher, Process Metaphysics: An Introduction to Process
Philosophy. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1996.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Báb.
Waterloo, ON: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2010.
Julio Savi, The Eternal Quest for God: An Introduction to the Divine
Philosophy. Oxford: George Ronald, 1989
Julio Savi, Towards the Summit of Reality: An Introduction to the Study of
Baha’u’llah’s Seven Valleys and Four Valley. George Ronald, 2008.
Peter Smith, A Concise Encyclopedia of the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford,
Oneworld, 2008.
Michael Sours, The Station and Claims of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1997.
Robert Stockman, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in America. Wilmette: BPT, 2012.
Robert Stockman, The Bahá’í Faith: A Guide for the Perplexed. New York:
Bloomsbury Academic, 2013.
Marjorie Suchocki, The End of Evil: Process Eschatology in Historical
Context. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1988.
Bonnie Taylor, One Reality: The Harmony of Science and Religion.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2013.
Michael Weber, Whitehead’s Pancreativism. The Basics. Heusenstamm:
ontos, 2006.
Alfred North Whitehead, Adventures of Ideas. New York: Free Press, 1967.
Alfred North Whitehead, The Concept of Nature. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1993.
Alfred North Whitehead, Modes of Thought. New York: Free Press, 1968.
Alfred North Whitehead, Process and Reality: An Essay in Cosmology. ed.
by D. R. Griffin and D. W. Sherburne. New York: Free Press, 1978.
Alfred North Whitehead, Religion in the Making. New York: Fordham
University Press, 1996.
Alfred North Whitehead, Science and the Modern World. New York: Free
Press, 1967.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


NOTES
1 Cf. Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day, I (on progressive movements); and: “It
is hoped that all the Bahá’í students will follow the noble example you
have set before them and will, henceforth, be led to investigate and
analyse the principles of the Faith and to correlate them with the modern
aspects of philosophy and science. Every intelligent and thoughtful young
Bahá’í should always approach the Cause in this way, for therein lies the
very essence of the principle of independent investigation of truth,” in
Compilation, 17 (#50).
2 Cf. Smith, Encyclopedia, 48.
3 Cf. Faber, Prozeßtheologie (2000); God as Poet (2003; 2004; 2008); Becoming
of God (2017). The presentation of A. N. Whitehead and process theology
is, of course, mine. While I teach, develop, research, and apply process
philosophy and theology in a decade-long professional effort to creatively
contribute to the academic study of the interface between philosophy and
religion, and the insights this can provide for their exercise, I have
developed an understanding of these matters that does not necessarily
reflect other process thinkers or speak for the field as such. With regard to
Bahá’í thought, all reflections and comparisons are, of course, only mine,
without any claim to anything except excitement for its depth.
4 Whitehead's main works in this time at Harvard between 1924 and 1937
are: Science (1925); Religion (1926); Process (1929); Adventures (1933);
and Modes (1037). For the emergence of Whitehead's metaphysical
thought, cf. Ford, Emergence.
5 Cf. Cobb and Griffin, Process Theology.
6 Cf. Dorrien, Making, chs. 2, 4.
7 Cf. Cobb and Griffin, Process Theology, chs. 4-5, 8-9; Griffin, ed.,
Pluralism; McDaniel, Hope.
8 Cf. Whitehead, Adventures, ch. 15; Faber, “Religion,” 167-182.
9 Cf. Cobb, Christ, chs. 4-5.
10 Cf. Cole, “Manifestation.”
11 Cf. Faber, Garden, ch. 7; Fazel, “Pluralism,” 42-49; Buck, “Interface,” 157-180.
12 A notable exception in this context is the work of Ian Kluge who, in many
substantial articles on comparison of western philosophers and
philosophical movements, as well as some eastern philosophies, with the
Bahá’í writings has promoted a “Bahá’í philosophy” in the making; cf.
https:// www.bahaiphilosophy.com. He is also maybe the only one, or at
least the first one, who has engaged with Whitehead and process
philosophy; cf. Kluge, “Process Philosophy,” 109-162.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology


13 Cf. Lambden, Aspects; Smith, Bábi-Bahá’í Religions; Cole, “World”;
Hamid, Metaphysics.
14 Cf. Momen, Introduction; Islam; “Mysticism,” 107-120; McCaron,
“Cosmology”;
15 Cf. Savi, Summit; Momen, Bahá’u’lláh, 38-42; Scripture; Hinduism;
Ma‘sumian, “Seclusion.”
16 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions; Divine Philosophy; Stockman, Bahá’í Faith,
chs. 8-9; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
17 Cf. Savi, Quest.
18 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, #9 (Tablet of Wisdom); Brown, “Hermes,” 153-
188; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SAQ #5, 51; PUP #35; PT #51; Shoghi Effendi, World
Order (The Unfoldment of World Civilization).
19 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet; Promulgation, #111; Brown, Evolution;
“Perspective,” 15-44.
20 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Commentary; “‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Response,” 1-29.
21 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, part 4.
22 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, PT #54; PUP #12, 20, 24, 96, 105; SAQ #5.
23 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tables, #9; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #75; Paris Talks,
##51, 111; Questions, ##7, 83; Hornby, Lights, #1682.
24 Cf. Shoghi Effendi, Destiny, 445; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #121.
25 Cf. Kluge, “Philosophy.” (2009) @
https://www.bahaiphilosophy.com/philosophy-and-the-baha-i-
writings.html.
26 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, #10. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasizes the importance of
the equal development of the intellectual, spiritual, and material
capacities as the condition for the unification of humankind; cf.
Promulgation, #82.
27 Cf. Promulgation, ##89, 97, 111; Paris Talks, # 29; Selections, #121.
28 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #105 (among the many instances ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá referred to this principle in America, but here especially in
conjunction with philosophy); Paris Talks, #41; Questions, #34.
29 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, ##58, 83; Faber, Garden, 34, 45.
30 Cf. Whitehead, Science, chs. 5, 9; Adventures, ch. 9; Modes; Faber,
Becoming, vii-xviii; Sphere 2.
31 Whitehead, Process, 9.
32 Cf. Whitehead, Religion, part 1.
33 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 4, 21; God as Poet, part 2; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Questions, #27; Paris Talks, #15.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


34 Cf. Faber, Garden, chs. 6-7.
35 Whitehead, Modes, 174; Faber, “Mystical Whitehead,” 167-182.
36 Cf. Rescher, Metaphysics.
37 Whitehead, Process, 7.
38 Heraclitus quoted in Plato, Cratylus, 401d.
39 Heraclitus quoted in Plato, Cratylus, 402a.
40 Whitehead, Process, 29.
41 Whitehead, Modes, 52-53.
42 Whitehead, Process, 17.
43 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, parts 2-3.
44 Cf. Leue, Foundations.
45 Whitehead, Modes, 12.
46 Cf. McLean, “Prolegomena,” 25-67.
47 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #23; but, contrarily, see #66; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Promulgation, ##57, 118; McLean, “Introduction,” xiii-xix; Faber, “Sense
of Peace,” 36-56.
48 Cf. Dorrien, Making; Kaufman, God.
49 Cf. McFague, Body; Cobb, Process Theology.
50 Whitehead, Process, 342.
51 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §36. In this function, philosophical theology my
be compared with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s rendering of “Divine Philosophy”; cf.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #96; McLean, “Prolegomena.”
52 Cf. Whitehead, Religion, parts 1, 4; Science, ch. 11; Process, part 5;
Whitehead, Adventures, ch. 10.
53 Whitehead, Adventures, 170.
54 Cf. Faber, Divine Manifold, chs. 10-12.
55 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 350-351.
56 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, ##13, 19; Tablets, #7.
57 Cf. Faber, “Bahá’u’lláh,” 53-106.
58 Whitehead, Science, 173.
59 For Whitehead's criticism of scientific materialism of this sort, cf.
Concept, ch. 2; Science, chs. 6-8; Faber, God as Poet, §§41-44; Becoming,
Spheres 1-2.
60 Cf. Humphrey, Metaphysics; Aristotle, Met., 1072a 26–27.
61 Whitehead, Adventures, 198.
62 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §35.
63 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #79; Brown, “Beginning,” 21-40.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology


64 Cf. Mesle, Process Theology.
65 Whitehead, Adventures, 172.
66 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §24.
67 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #44; Taylor, Reality.
68 Whitehead, Process, 15.
69 Cf. Whitehead, Religion, 31; Process, 4; Science, 168-169; Weber,
Pancreativism, chs. 2-3; Faber, Garden, 19, 36, 62.
70 Cf. Whitehead, Adventure, part 1; Faber, God as Poet, §46.
71 Whitehead, Modes, 174.
72 Whitehead, Process, 4; McFague, Body, ch. 1.
73 Cf. Cobb, ed., Religions.
74 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, part 2; Becoming, Sphere 4.
75 Whitehead, Religion, 61.
76 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys, 11-12, 58; Faber, “Bahá’u’lláh”; Garden, ch.
7, section 5.
77 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, also understands religion (with science) as expression of
“pure reason”; cf. Promulgation, ##44, 49.
78 Whitehead, Religion, 31-32.
79 Cf. Whitehead, Religion, 18-20; Adventures, 165-166.
80 Cf. Faber, “Surrationality,” 155-175.
81 Cf. Faber, Divine Manifold, part 1.
82 Cf. Griffin, ed., Pluralism, chs. 1-2; Faber, Becoming, Exploration 3.
83 Whitehead, Science, 189.
84 Cf. Lundberg, “Bedrock,” 53-67.
85 Cf. Whitehead, Process, parts 1, 2; Faber, God as Poet, parts 2-4.
86 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 36.
87 Cf. Whitehead, Concept, chs. 7-9; Process, part 2; Adventures, chs 11-13;
Hosinski, Fact, chs. 2-6.
88 Cf. Hartshorne, “Concept,” 102-113.
89 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Sphere 1.
90 Whitehead, Process, 21.
91 Whitehead, Process, 162.
92 Whitehead, Adventures, 203; Faber, Prozeßtheologie, §21; God as Poet,
part 3; Becoming, Exploration 10.
93 Whitehead, Process, 28.
94 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Exploration 2.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


95 Whitehead, Process, 104;
96 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §16; Becoming, Sphere 3. For a comparable, but
unrelated, appreciation of cosmic creativity in the Bahá’í context, cf.
Johnson, “Force,” 29-60.
97 Whitehead, Process, 21.
98 Cf. Whitehead, Adventures, 236; Garland, “Ultimacy,” 212–38; Bracken,
Matrix, ch. 4.
99 Whitehead, Religion, 92.
100 Whitehead, Adventures, 177.
101 Whitehead, Adventures, 150; Faber, God as Poet, §§16, 24.
102 Whitehead, Adventures, 265; Henning, Ethics.
103 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 31-32; Faber, God as Poet, part 3.
104 Cf. Whitehead, Adventures, 294-295.
105 Whitehead, Religion, 119-120.
106 Whitehead, Adventures, 285, 296; cf. Faber, Divine Manifold, chs. 1, 4,
8; Becoming, Sphere 4.
107 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Sphere 3, Exploration 10.
108 Whitehead, Religion, 160. As Whitehead and process theology do not
necessitate only one world or a limited creation of only one finite
universe, this infinity is so inscribed in Whitehead's and the process
conceptualization of God and God’s mutual immanence with the world
that, while this understanding does not easily satisfy certain orthodox
expressions of Abrahamic traditions, it allows for substantial
communication with Dharmic and Daoic religions of the east.
109 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 347; Faber, Divine Manifold, ch. 10.
110 Whitehead, Religion, 160.
111 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #47, 96, 113.
112 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, ##63, 82, 109.
113 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #40.
114 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Explorations 3, 13.
115 Whitehead, Science, 191-192; cf. Faber, Garden, 39.
116 Cf. Suchocki, Process Eschatology.
117 Whitehead, Science, 192.
118 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 346-351; Faber, God as Poet, §39.
119 Whitehead, Adventures, 172.
120 Whitehead, Religion, 158.
121 Cf. Whitehead, Adventures, 294-295.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology


122 Whitehead, Process, 349.
123 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 351.
124 Whitehead, Religion, 158-159.
125 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §31; Divine Manifold, chs. 2-3; Becoming,
Exploration 8; Garden, ch. 5.
126 Whitehead, Process, 348.
127 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Exploration 10.
128 Cf. Faber, “De-Ontologizing God,” 209-234; God as Poet, §40; Garden,
ch. 6.
129 Whitehead, Process, 348.
130 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, part 2.
131 Cf. Cobb and Griffin, Process Theology, ch. 2; Hosinski, Fact, part 2;
Faber, God as Poet, part 4.
132 Whitehead, Process, 345.
133 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, Introduction; Divine Manifold, part 1.
134 Whitehead, Process, 348.
135 Whitehead, Religion, 105.
136 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §§38-39.
137 Whitehead, Process, 346.
138 Cf. Faber, God as Process, §§16, 24, 32.
139 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 351; Adventures, 295; Faber, Becoming,
Exploration 9. This correlates to Bahá’u’lláh’s interpretation of the often
monistically understood Sufi doctrine of the “unity of being”; cf.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of Uncompounded Reality; Faber, “Bahá’u’lláh.”
140 Whitehead, Adventures, 296.
141 Whitehead, Religion, 155-156.
142 Whitehead, Religion, 154-155.
143 Cf. Momen, “God”; Cole, “Manifestation.”
144 Cf. Faber, Garden, ch. 1.
145 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #27.
146 Cf. Sours, Station.
147 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §38.
148 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Exploration 16; Garden, chs. 6-7.
149 Cf. Whitehead, Adventures, 167.
150 Cf. Faber “Laozi,” section 10.
151 Whitehead, Religion, 144.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


152 Whitehead, Religion, 55-56. While most of the consideration of process
theology, early on, develop in a Christian theological context so that the
incarnation of Christ was a natural matter of reflection, that is, how in
this person God and Humanity can be fully present and united without
diminishing either side, the seeming “defect” (sometimes mentioned or
even criticized from Christian orthodox views) that process theology was
not able to “prove” the uniqueness of the Incarnation in Christ, must now
be seen as its advantage: as there are infinite worlds, so is there also no
reason that, expressed in process categories and in exploring Whitehead's
notion of God, there should only be one Manifestation of God “in
person” in either this or any other world; cf. Faber, God as Poet, §38.
153 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan, part 1; Cole, “I am all the Prophets”; “Behold the
Man.”
154 Whitehead, Religion, 57.
155 This correlates with the Bahá’í writings; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #21;
Momen, “God.”
156 Whitehead, Adventures, 167.
157 Whitehead, Adventures, 33.
158 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan, 257.
159 Cf. Lambden, “Background”; Saiedi, Gate, chs. 1, 7.
160 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #14.
161 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Commentary; Momen, “Relativism,” 191-192.
162 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #82; Faber, Garden, Epilogue, section 4; the
cycle of emanation and spiritualization, or arc of descent and ascent, in
the Bahá’í writings, is a truly cosmic cycle, as well as a spiritual one, all at
once; cf. Saiedi, Gate, ch. 2; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #81; and it
correlates with Whitehead's cycle (or ecology) of love; Faber, God as Poet,
§30; Garden, ch. 5, section 3.
163 Cf. Hornby, Lights, ##907-11; Momen, “God,” 30; Faber, Garden, chs. 1,
5, 7. The twin star, indicating the Twin Manifestations of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh are not explicated in the following comparative
interpretation, although it does in no way contradict it; rather, it
indicates the symbol to be that of the Manifestations of God.
164 Cf. Momen, “God,” 23-26; Faber, Garden, chs. 1, 5, 7.
165 Cf. Faber, Garden, ch. 7; Momen, “Relativism,” 197-198.
166 Cf. Whitehead, Process, part 2, ch. 4.
167 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, parts 2, 3; Becoming, Sphere 1.
168 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §24, 32; Becoming, Sphere 3.
169 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #55.

Manifestation of God in Process Theology


170 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, #12; Questions, #81; Promulgation, #19.
171 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 340; Faber, God as Poet, §39; Divine Manifold,
ch. 7; Garden, ch. 5.
172 Whitehead, Process, 340.
173 I have explored this connection in detail in Faber, Garden, chs. 7-8.
174 Whitehead, Process, 346.
175 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 343, 350.
176 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 350; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, #92;
Promulgation, #81.
177 Cf. Momen, “God,” 27-28; “Relativism,” 192.
178 Whitehead, Religion, 155.
179 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 31-32.
180 Cf. Momen, “God,” 26-27.
181 Whitehead, Religion, 154.
182 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 350.
183 Whitehead, Religion, 154.
184 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 346; and so does process theology; cf. Cobb,
Christ, chs. 2-3.
185 Cf. Saiedi, Gate, ch. 7; Momen, “God,” 23-26.
186 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Commentary; Momen, “God,” 23; Lambden,
“Background”; Momen, “relativism,” 190-191; Faber, Garden, ch. 6.
187 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, ##47, 60; Shoghi Effendi, World Order
(The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh), 101; Whitehead, Process, 95;
Adventures, 236; Faber, God as Poet, §§35, 43.
188 Cf. Faber, “Mystical Whitehead.”
189 Whitehead, Process, 4; Faber, Becoming, Exploration 16.
190 Cf. Sour, Station, chs. 6-7.
191 Cf. Faber, Divine Manifold, part 3; Becoming, Sphere 5; Garden, ch. 7.
192 Whitehead, Process, 351.
193 Cf. Faber, Becoming, Exploration 9.
194 Many interesting interreligious resonances could be harvested from such a
correlation between the concept of the Manifestation of God in the
Bahá’í context with Whitehead's God and God-world relationship, some
of which I have pondered on in other places. For instance, how, with such
a solution, the identification of Whitehead's God and mutual immanence
with the world, the Bahá’í understanding of the Christian doctrine of the
Trinity could be conceptualized; how Trinity could be understood as
interreligious rendering of that God-world mutuality; how it would

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


explicate the mutuality of divine and human nature of the Incarnation
without intermediary being (Arianism) or substance inherence (hulul); and
how this again would fit a universal category for the consideration of a
fundamental unity of religions as it would also allow to integrate Hindu
categories of saguna and nirguna brahman as well as the Buddhist
categories of thatagatagarba and the manifestations of the dharmakaya.
Cf. Faber, Garden, chs. 7-8.
195 Cf. Momen, “God,” 25; “Relativism,” 193.
196 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §38; Cobb, Christ, chs. 4-5.
197 Cf. Cobb, Beyond Dialogue; Cobb and Ives, eds, Emptying God; Griffin,
Pluralism; McDaniel, Gandhi’s Hope; Faber, God as Poet, §32.
198 Cf. Bracken, Divine Matrix.
199 Cf. Donaldson, Cosmologies; Long, “Vedanta.” Yet in the same
interreligious context, there also remain fascinating questions demanding
further reflection. As conceptualizations integrated into the Bahá’í
understanding of Manifestation, such as that of Jewish major and minor
prophets, the Islamic concepts of rasul, nabi, and wali, but also points of
contact and resonance with Buddhist and Hindu renderings of
embodiments of ultimate Reality or God (“reincarnation”) in the Buddha
and Krishna as well as many holy figures are plenty, one wonders about
the extent to which the many avatars and tulkus can be related to the
claim of the one Manifestation of God (for an era), especially if they were
proclaimed at the time and after Bahá’u’lláh, such as that of famous holy
Hindu and Sufi and Parsi figures like Ramakrishna, Sri Aurobindo, Shirdi
Sai Baba, and Meher Baba. Cf. Faber, Garden, chs. 8-9.
200 Cf. Whitehead, Adventures, 168; Momen, “God,” 24-26. Whitehead's
insistence on the “immanence” of God — contrary to Platonic
transcendence, which leaves only simulacra in the cosmic interchange of
relationality — is, therefore, the best indication of the equivalency of
Whitehead's “God” with the Bahá’í understanding of Manifestation as
“God,” which, again, in both universes of discourse is identified with the
Logos or Wisdom of God (lahut); cf. Faber, God as Poet, §38. This does,
of course, not substitute the transcendence of the manifest “God” beyond
any world; cf. Whitehead, Process, 93-94.
201 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, #9.
202 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys (Valley of Love).
203 Cf. Laozi, Tao De Ching (Dao De Jing) verse 1; Faber, Garden, ch. 3.
204 Cf. Faber, “Laozi.”

The Mystery of Consciousness
Learning from Neuroscience and Insights
from Bahá’í Sacred Writings
Jena Khadem Khodadad
Abstract
This paper limits its approach to the extensive and expansive
theme of consciousness. First, it places its focus, on current
knowledge on the neural basis of consciousness. It next explores the
concepts of mind, soul, and rational soul gleaned from Bahá’í
writings and reflects on the insights therein. This writing draws
attention to an unusual supposition set forth by a few neuroscientists
— that consciousness may continue after the death of the brain. This
paper concludes that the concepts of mind, soul, rational soul, and
consciousness are incomprehensible and that we may be facing a
dimension akin to that of the quantum world.
Introduction

Consciousness is at the center of considerable discourse and
research in a variety of disciplines. Within its compass, it includes
several
essential
realities,
among
them:
individual
‘human
consciousness’ and ‘the collective consciousness’ of humankind.
Robert Lanza, a noted researcher and scientist, by introducing the
concept of ‘biocentrism’, posits that consciousness is a fundamental

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
property of the universe and that the material world ‘evolved to
support consciousness’; he thus views spirit rather than matter of
primary
importance
to
consciousness
in
the
universe
(See
Biocentrism).
Consciousness in humans has intrigued multitude of scholars and
researchers
from
numerous
fields:
philosophy,
psychology,
psychiatry, theology, and neuroscience; enigmas yet persist. Research
probing consciousness has resulted in a number of theories and
hypotheses; yet consciousness continues to remain a mystery. In
2005, the journal, Science, published a special anniversary issue that
featured one hundred and twenty five questions scientists have failed
to answer. The second of the two top questions was: What is the
biological basis of consciousness? Now, some years after, we have
reached only few understandings but are faced with yet more
questions.
This article introduces one facet of the extensive field of
consciousness. Its aim is to first present briefly few fundamentals on
the neural basis of higher consciousness in the human. Addressing
multitude of questions at the forefront of the disciplines of
philosophy, psychology, and psychiatry, are neither the intent nor
within the scope of this writing. This paper will next introduce the
concepts of mind, soul, the rational soul, and the immortality of the
soul gleaned from Bahá’í writings and will reflect on the insights
therein.
There is little clarity on certain fundamental questions: Where in
the brain can we locate consciousness? Is consciousness dependent on
the brain or can it exist independent of it? Though at some level,
answers to these questions are inconclusive, nevertheless it may be
anticipated, that fundamental learning from neuroscience may
provide a path toward their exploration. It is hoped that at the very
least, this discussion can raise our level of consciousness about the
question and puzzle of consciousness.
My interest in the theme, ’consciousness’, is an outcome of years
of teaching neuroanatomy and neuroscience to medical and graduate
students. Lecture and laboratory instruction on the dissection of the
human brain raised multitudes of questions on the relationship
between the brain, mind, and consciousness. Intricate and fascinating

Mystery of Consciousness
structures of the brain, each exquisitely specialized for a highly
specific function, continued to intrigue me, evoking a sense of awe
and wonderment. These led invariably to the resurgence of perennial
questions on the purpose of human existence and the reality of
human uniqueness. As Shakespeare’s Hamlet had poetically expressed:
What a piece of work is man! how noble in reason!
how infinite in faculties! in form and moving how express
and admirable!
in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god!
the beauty of the world! The paragons of animals! (Hamlet, act
2, scene 2)
Dissecting, probing, identifying, and demonstrating various
regions of the human brain, each exquisitely assigned to a specific
function, among them: hearing, sight, olfaction, sensation, language,
writing, and muscle movements, invariably instill a sense of
wonderment and reverence. In particular, I remember an occasion in
my brain dissection laboratory. A student with a human brain in his
palm — a brain which had been made available, in a bucket, to each
group of four students — approached me asking dispassionately,
“how much do you pay for this?” Deeply stirred by the tone of his
question, I turned to address all students — to emphasize the
importance of reverence while handling, probing, dissecting and
studying such invaluable specimen, as at one time these were the
instruments of the thought and consciousness of their noble owners.
Such priceless human brains were indeed bought at a paltry price. I
continued on this theme until overwhelmed with emotion, I had to
bring my comments to an end. Now, each year at the termination of
such studies on human remains, a memorial service is held, dedicated
to their unknown owners.
A befitting appreciation of those nameless donors of such brains
finds expression through the essential knowledge humankind has
gained on the marvel and workings of the human brain, in health and
disease. At this point, I am moved to dedicate this article to those
countless men and women whose brains I dissected and probed over
many years of instruction. To them, we all remain indebted.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Consciousness In Humans
There is a general agreement that consciousness is the state of
being wakeful, conscious and self aware. How should we, more
precisely, define consciousness in humans? Can we define it as the
state of being aware of one’s surroundings? Does this sufficiently
describe human consciousness? If so, all animals have heightened
awareness of their surroundings. We know, however, that there must
be
much
more
to
human
consciousness.
Is
consciousness
characterized by being sensate — sentient? If so, we know that the
senses of animals are significantly sharper than those of the human.
Does consciousness in humans imply the capacity to feel emotion?
If so, many animals are capable of feeling and showing emotion.
Does consciousness in humans imply thinking and volition? If so, it
can be argued that some animals are capable of thinking and the
decision to act.
Does consciousness in humans imply biographical memory and the
capability of planning for the future? If so, some animals are capable
of biographical memory and can plan for their future, such as: the
beaver building its dam; the bird building its nest and the ant
collecting and storing food for its future use. It can be argued,
however, that these may be attributed to instinct — inborn pattern of
behavior rather than reasoning, thinking and decision making. August
Forel, a distinguished entomologist, discusses the question of
consciousness. He shows that insects have highly developed sensory
organs as well as memory (Some Ants and other Insects: An Inquiry into
The Psychic Powers of Animals).
Does consciousness in humans imply the ability to feel the
sufferings of others; that is the capacity for empathy? If so, there are
indications that some animals are capable of empathy, such as a dog
who comes to the rescue of its master, or to one in distress. Does
consciousness in humans imply the ability to converse through
language? If so, it can be argued that animals may have their own
mode of communication, their own language.
The question remains: What do humans possess that is over and
above the consciousness of lower animals? ‘Abdu’l-Bahá provides
definitive answers to this question: The human has the unique power

Mystery of Consciousness
of rational, analytical thinking and reasoning. The distinguishing
feature, ‘the power of intellectual investigation into the mysteries of
outer phenomena’, endows to the human a station beyond lower
animals.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts:
[H]uman — the highest specialized organism of visible
creation, embodying the qualities of the mineral, vegetable
and animal plus an ideal endowment absolutely absent in the
lower kingdoms — the power of intellectual investigation
into the mysteries of outer phenomena. The outcome of this
intellectual endowment is science, which is especially
characteristic of man. This scientific power investigates and
apprehends created objects and the laws surrounding them. It
is the discoverer of the hidden and mysterious secrets of the
material universe and is peculiar to man alone. The most
noble and praiseworthy accomplishment of man, therefore, is
scientific knowledge and attainment. [PUP 29]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
emphasizes
that
man’s
hallmark
is
love
of
transcendence:
Praise be to God! Man ever aspires to greater heights and
loftier goals. He ever seeks to attain a world surpassing that
which he inhabits, and to ascend to a degree above that which
he occupies. This love of transcendence is one of the
hallmarks of man. [SAQ 217]
Fundamental to higher consciousness in humans, is the state of being
conscious of one’s reality. That reality, lacking in animals, is the
human spirit.
This spirit, which in the terminology of philosophers is called
the rational soul’, encompasses all things, and as far as human
capacity permits, discovers their realities and becomes aware
of the properties and effects, the characteristics and
conditions of earthly things. [SAQ 242]

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Association of consciousness with the brain
We now come to a puzzling and unavoidable question: Is
consciousness associated with the brain? As we strive to grasp the
meaning of consciousness, it must be recognized that not all
neuroscientists are in agreement on the extent to which consciousness
is associated with the brain. Few propose that consciousness may not
be a byproduct of the brain and that the brain’s job is simply to
facilitate a dynamic pattern of interactions among the body, brain,
and the world.
Elements indispensable to the state of being conscious
There is a general agreement that the body (a person), the self, the
brain, and the mind are indispensable to the state of being conscious.
Antonio Damasio, a distinguished neuroscientist, in his recent book,
discusses and elaborates on three developmental levels of the Self;
these he names successively: the Protoself, the Core self and the
Autobiographical self (see Self Comes to Mind). Though we may not
wish to dwell on his logic and arguments, regarding these levels of the
Self, nevertheless it is evident that a self is essential for being
conscious. The brain, the source of neuronal activity, is also
necessary to consciousness and the mind is fundamental to being
conscious.
Though the relationship of the brain to the mind and the
relationship of the mind to consciousness have been extensively
discussed, these yet remain enigmas. How should we define the mind?
There is a general understanding that the mind includes perception,
thinking, judgment, memory and consciousness. Yet there is not an
agreement on what the mind is and whether the concept ‘mind’ also
applies to animals or is it restricted to the human? Some believe that
animals also have a mind. Others may argue that the general concept
of mind is exclusive to the human and yet others link the mind to the
human soul. Furthermore, there are a number of philosophical
schools of thought, with varying viewpoints on the relationship
between the brain and the mind. These range from the dualism of
Rene Descartes to several other viewpoints. The view promoted by
Descartes was that of ‘substance dualism of mind and brain’; that is
the mind is a nonphysical substance and separate from the brain.

Mystery of Consciousness
Is the mind emergent from the brain as many neuroscientists
believe? If so, what does ‘emergent’ signify? We understand through
insights imparted by Bahá’í writings, that ‘emergent’ does not
describe the relationship between the brain and mind. The term
‘manifests’ is more suitable. Between emergent and manifests is a
subtle but critical difference. Emergent implies emerging or rising
from; that is coming into existence, being produced by the brain,
whereas ‘manifests’ implies displaying, revealing, or making known.
Though the structure of the brain and its activity contribute to the
mind, the brain must also manifest the mind. In explanation of this
point, we can consider that if the brain becomes defective, it cannot
manifest the mind, though we understand that the mind, nevertheless
exists.
We can now look briefly at the human brain and several of its
neuro-anatomical structures that are essential to consciousness,
before we reflect further on the concepts of mind, soul, and rational
soul in Bahá’í writings.
The Neural Basis of Consciousness
The five lobes of the human brain — frontal, parietal, temporal,
occipital, and limbic — can be readily examined and studied in a
number of views of the brain: superior, basal, lateral and sagittal — a
view obtained through a cut that yields two symmetrical halves, the
right and the left hemispheres.
The external surface of the human brain displays an impressive
abundance of intricate folds and furrows. The folds, called gyri
(plural of gyrus), are separated by furrows called sulci (plural of
sulcus). Folds significantly increase the surface area of the brain. This
leads to the question: Is increase in surface area key to higher
consciousness in humans? In response, we know that the brain of a
large non human mammal, a whale, has more cortical folds and
greater surface area than that of the human brain. Can we conclude
that the whale has a level of consciousness higher than the human? We
know that the total number of neurons in the cortex of a Minke
whale is 12.8 billion.1 This is 13 times that of the rhesus monkey and
500 times more than a rat, but only two thirds of the human. Thus,
the surface area of the brain of the whale is more extensive than the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
human, but the number of neurons are fewer. However, neither the
surface area of the brain, nor the number of neurons can explain the
higher level of consciousness in the human. There must be more to
the story; the mystery of human consciousness goes far beyond folds
and neurons. Other factors make humans unique.
The internal structure of the brain examined on a horizontal
section — made at right angle (90◌) to the long axis of the body —
reveals two distinct areas: an outer area of gray coloration, called
‘cortex’, surrounding an inner area of white coloration, called
‘medulla’.
The Cortex, often referred to, as the ‘Gray matter’, includes
neurons and supporting cells called glia. The Medulla, often referred
to, as the ‘White matter’, contains mostly axons; these are the long
projections of neurons specialized for conducting nerve impulse.
Axons are surrounded by a covering, a sheath of insulation made of
myelin. Myelin is composed of fatty material; thus it imparts a white
coloration to the medulla.
Gray matter comes in two varieties: layered in cerebral cortex and
cerebellar cortex and nonlayered, made up of aggregations of
neurons, called “nuclei”. Nuclei are distributed throughout the
central nervous system and have essential functions.
Neurons. The brain has billions of neurons; neurons make
trillions of connections among themselves. Connections are made
according to patterns. Such patterns constitute a wiring diagram, or
depending on the sector of the brain, many wiring diagrams. The
billions of neurons are organized in circuits, some are very small
microcircuits. When many microcircuits are put together they form a
region. Collection of axons with common origin and destination
form tracts. Neurons come in a variety of sizes but all are variations
on the same theme. Each neuron has three main anatomical parts: cell
body, dendrites, and axon. Neurons are connected with one another
through the highly specialized synapse. Neurons can be non active or
active; active neurons fire as a result of voltage change. A neuron
fires, due to change in electrical potential, known as ‘action
potential’ which is propagated from the cell body and down its axon.
When the firing current arrives at a synapse, it triggers the release of
chemicals known as neurotransmitters, synthesized by neurons.

Mystery of Consciousness
We are now faced with an intriguing question. How do neurons
with such impressive structures, intricate machinery, extensive
connections and rapid firing at the rate of 1027 operations per
second, contribute to consciousness? Electroencephalograms (EEG)
show significant brain activity with continuous waves sweeping
across it. These prompt a fundamental question: Is consciousness
simply a drifting wave of electrical currents over widespread areas of
the brain or is there more to consciousness? Where in the brain can
we locate consciousness?
Where in the brain does consciousness reside?
Studies in neuroscience tell us that consciousness is associated
with the brain but it does not reside in a single entity in any part of
the brain. The brain facilitates but does not store consciousness. Few
neuroscientists go so far as to say that the brain does not actually
produce consciousness.
We know that a normal intact cerebrum is incapable of
functioning in a conscious manner by itself. The brainstem — the
stem like connection at the base of the brain between the cerebrum
and the spinal cord — plays a lead role in consciousness (The Human
Brain, An Introduction to its Functional Anatomy 283). Sustaining
input is required from a structure in the brainstem, called ‘the
reticular formation’.2 The portion of the reticular formation that
provides the required input for consciousness is known as the
‘ascending reticular activating system’. It is known that the
modulation of this system has a basic role in sleep and wakefulness
and that bilateral damage to its neurons and nerve fibers passing
through it results in prolonged coma.
When the significant role of the brainstem in consciousness was
first discovered and established, neuroscientists found it quite
surprising that the brainstem, considered the more primitive part of
the brain, should play a lead function in consciousness, rather than
the well developed and highly evolved part of cerebrum, known as
neocortex.3
Consciousness is the result of massive integration of signals across
many regions in the brain. Neuroscientists speak of the ‘triads of
conscious mind’; the brainstem, the thalamus 4 and the cerebrum

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
contribute to what is known as ‘the conscious mind triad.’ There are
few other structures involved in consciousness: the hypothalamus 5,
amygdala 6 and hippocampus.7 Additionally, the spinal cord sensory
and motor reflexes are required for being fully conscious.
Levels of consciousness
Different levels in state of consciousness exhibit different
electroencephalograms
(EEG)
(See
Clinical
Neuroanatomy
and
Neuroscience 333). Electroencephalograms are graphic records of the
electrical activity of the brain. Five types of waves, measured as
cycles per second, are described during various states of
consciousness. From the fastest waves to the slowest, these are:
gamma waves (during meditation and active thought); beta waves
(during
attentive
wakefulness);
alpha
waves
(during
resting
wakefulness with eyes closed); theta waves are widespread and
recorded during drowsiness and sleep or trance’; and delta waves,
(slow wave sleep) are widespread and recorded during deep sleep.
Certain Bahá’i Concepts That Relate to
Consciousness
Having briefly referred to few neuro-anatomical components that
are fundamental to consciousness, we can now turn to insights
provided by the Bahá’í concepts of the mind, the spirit, the soul, and
the rational soul. Though of little interest to neuroscientists, these
are
fundamental
to
the
reality
and
uniqueness
of
human
consciousness.
In reflecting on these concepts and their current usage in Bahá’í
writings, we face several challenges as well as barriers. It is important
to recognize that the terminologies used in Bahá’í texts are
translations from the original Persian into English, of concepts which
are in essence: profound, shrouded with numerous understandings,
and surrounded with layers of meaning. Furthermore, several rounds
of translation, over time, have added to this complexity. Therefore,
in these discussions we face the challenge of translation of concepts
whose depths are difficult to plumb. At the same time, we are
encouraged to reflect and meditate on them, perchance we can
uncover some of the mysteries therein.

Mystery of Consciousness
In Bahá’í writings, the terms: ‘mind’, ‘soul’, ‘rational soul’, as well
as ‘spirit’ are frequently used. How should we relate these to the
concept of ‘consciousness’, in vogue in our times? Does the term,
‘consciousness’ as used in neuroscience and other related disciplines,
resonate with the Bahá’í concepts of mind, soul and specially with the
rational soul — an entity we believe endures beyond the death of the
brain? It should be noted that few neuroscientists have used
expressions, such as: ‘the continuing of consciousness’ and ‘endless
consciousness’ (Consciousness Beyond Life 245, 283). We can reasonably
infer that these allude to an entity which survives the death of the
brain and continues on. Avoiding the word, ‘soul’, used by followers
of many religions, they employ such innocuous terms. These clearly
imply belief in an entity which can endure beyond the death of the
brain. Several eminent neuroscientists, such as Penfield and Eccles,
unabashedly declare their conviction in the immortality of the human
soul, as presented further down below.
Can we relate these to the concepts: ‘soul’, ‘rational soul’ or
‘spirit’ found in Bahá’í writings? In these sacred texts, ‘soul’ and
‘rational soul’ take on additional significance and specific meaning. It
is of value to probe and discuss these concepts while remaining
mindful of the challenges of translations and the incomprehensibility
of their essence.
Does Consciousness Survive the Death of the
Brain?
As we reflect on consciousness in humans, we are faced with an
inescapable question: Does consciousness survive the death of the
brain? Where does consciousness go after the death of the brain?
Where does the mind go after the death of the brain? Classic Studies
on death and dying can provide few valuable insights. Elizabeth
Kubler Ross and Raymond Moody are credited with introducing this
theme, thus encouraging the development of a sizable literature on
the question: Does some mode of consciousness endure the death of
the brain?
In response to this question, several noted neuroscientist have
expressed their convictions. Wilder Penfield, based on a lifetime of
experience in neurosurgery and research, came to the understanding

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
of the duality of brain and mind. He considered the nature of the
mind a mystery and believed in its immortality. He writes that in
order to survive after death, the mind must establish a connection
with the source of energy other than the brain.
If, however, during life, when the brain and mind are awake,
direct communication is sometimes established with the
minds of other men or with the mind of God, then it is clear
that energy from without can reach a man’s mind. In that
case, it is not unreasonable for him to hope that after death
the mind may waken to another source of energy. (The Mystery
of the Mind: A Critical Study of Consciousness and the Human
Brain, 88)
Sir John Eccles, neurophysiologist, recipient of Nobel prize for
his research on the neuron and its synapse, became a staunch believer
in the reality of the human soul. Based on his experiments on brain-
mind relationship, he came to the belief that the conscious selfhood of
man is endowed with an immortal soul. He writes poetically about the
uniqueness and immortality of the human soul (Evolution of the Brain:
Creation of the Self 238, 243).
On the spiritual reality of the human, he writes.
I maintain that the human mystery is incredibly demeaned by
scientific reductionism, with its claim in promissory
materialism to account eventually for all of the spiritual
world in terms of patterns of neuronal activity. This belief
must be classed as superstition …we have to recognize that we
are spiritual beings with souls existing in a spiritual world as
well as material beings with bodies and brains existing in a
material world. (Evolution of the Brain: Creation of the Self 241)
Eccles expresses unequivocally, his belief in the human Soul:
Since materialistic solutions fail to account for our
experienced uniqueness, I am constrained to attribute the
uniqueness of the Self or Soul to a supernatural spiritual
creation. To give the explanation in theological terms, each
soul is a new Divine Creation which is implanted into the

Mystery of Consciousness
growing fetus at some time between conception and birth.
(Evolution of the Brain: Creation of the Self 237)
Insights from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
We can now turn to the insights ‘Abdu’l-Bahá provides in His
Tablet to Professor August Henri Forel, a distinguished Swiss
entomologist. Forel was also an eminent neuroscientist who had made
significant discoveries on the structure of the human brain — the
deep connections named after him, as “Fields of Forel”. Professor
Forel wrote to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In response, he received a letter known
as ‘The Tablet of Forel’. In this Tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes
significant contributions to the discussion of consciousness.
Subsequently, August Forel professed his belief in the Bahá’í Faith,
both in his writings as well as in his will.
Forel wrote:
“This is the true religion of human social good, without
dogma or priests, uniting all men on this small terrestrial
globe of ours.” I have become a Bahá’í. May this religion live
and prosper for the good of mankind, this is my most ardent
wish. (For the Good of Mankind, August Forel, 18 and Baha’i
World Volume 18, 970)
In this Tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, with scientific and spiritual logic,
proves the existence of God and expounds on the reality of the
human soul, mind, and spirit. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms that the soul is:
limitless, changeless, free from all agencies, has full strength,
continues to exist despite loss of reason and is imperishable. The
following are few quotes from this Tablet.
The soul hath limitless manifestations of its own.
The soul changeth not. It dependeth not upon the body. It is
through the power of the soul that the mind comprehendeth,
imagineth and exerteth its influence,
The soul is a power that is free from all agencies. The soul as
thou observest, whether it be in sleep or waking, is in motion

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
and ever active. Possibly it may, whilst in a dream, unravel an
intricate problem, incapable of solution in the waking state.
The soul is ever endowed with full strength.
Despite the loss of reason, the power of the soul would still
continue to exist. The soul hath limitless manifestations of its
own. [TAF 37-43]
In the Tablet to Forel, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá draws a connection between
the mind and the soul but also makes distinctions between the two.
He explains that ‘concerning mental faculties, they are inherent
properties of the soul’ and likens the connection of the mind to the
soul as to the connection of rays of the sun to the sun. He asserts
that: mental faculties can change but the soul is changeless; the mind
is limited, but the soul is without limits; and that the mind
comprehends ‘by the aid of such senses as those of sight, hearing,
taste, smell and touch’ while ‘the soul is free from all agencies.’ He
further explains that the soul is in motion and active whether in sleep
or waking.’ It can dream and unravel mysteries, whereas the mind
‘understandeth not whilst the senses have ceased to function’ and
asserts that ‘the soul is ever endowed with full strength.’ [TAF 37-43]
Therefore, we understand that the soul is changeless, limitless and
independent of the senses while the mind is limited, dependent on
senses and subject to change. Yet the mind has essential connection
to the soul. Despite the loss of reason, the power of the soul
continues to exist.
It is important to note that both terms: ‘soul’ and ‘rational soul’
are used throughout Bahá’í writings, at times interchangeably.
Rational soul can be viewed as the soul of man, endowed with higher
consciousness. We understand from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s writings that the
terms ‘spirit’ and ‘rational soul’ both refer to the human soul,
distinct from the soul of animals lower than the human.
As to the relationship of the rational soul to the body, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá responds to the following question: “After the body has been
cast off and the spirit has taken flight, through what will the rational
soul subsist?”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answer:

Mystery of Consciousness
Some hold that the body is the substance and that it subsists
by itself, and that the spirit is an accident which subsists
through the substance of the body. The truth, however, is
that the rational soul is the substance through which the body
subsists. If the accident — the body — is destroyed, the
substance — the spirit — remains. [SAQ 276]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá continues his response to this seminal question,
shedding further insights on the association of the rational soul with
the body:
Secondly, the rational soul, or the human spirit, does not
subsist through this body by inherence — that is to say, it
does not enter it; for inherence and entrance are
characteristics of bodies, and the rational soul is sanctified
above this. It never entered this body to begin with, that it
should require, upon leaving it, some other abode. No, the
connection of the spirit with the body is even as the
connection of this lamp with a mirror. If the mirror is
polished and perfected, the light of the lamp appears therein,
and if the mirror is broken or covered with dust, the light
remains concealed. [SAQ 276-277]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá expounds further on this theme:
The rational soul — that is to say, the human spirit — has
neither entered this body nor existed through it to begin
with, that it should require some substance to depend upon
after the constituent parts of the body have decomposed. On
the contrary, the rational soul is the substance through which
the body depends. The rational soul is endowed from the
beginning with individuality; it does not acquire it through
the intermediary of the body. At most, what can be said is
that the individuality and identity of the rational soul may be
strengthened in this world, and that the soul may either
progress and attain to the degrees of perfection or remain in
the lowest abyss of ignorance and be veiled from and
deprived from beholding the signs of God. [SAQ 277]

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
That entity which survives the death of the brain, is the immortal
human soul. Life after death is discussed in numerous passages from
the vast treasury of Bahá’í Writings on this theme.
Baha'u'llah describes the transition at death, as an unveiling:
O My servants! Sorrow not if, in these days and on this earthly
plane, things contrary to your wishes have been ordained and
manifested by God, for days of blissful joy, of heavenly
delight, are assuredly in store for you. Worlds, holy and
spiritually glorious, will be unveiled to your eyes. [GWB 329]
As to the state of the human soul, Baha'u'llah affirms:
Verily I say, the human soul is exalted above all egress and
regress. It is still, and yet it soareth; it moveth, and yet it is
still. It is, in itself, a testimony that beareth witness to the
existence of a world that is contingent, as well as to the reality
of a world that hath neither beginning nor end. [GWB 162]
We understand, from numerous passages in Bahá’í writings, that a
departed soul can make discoveries in the ‘heavenly’ world and be
informed of mysteries. Departed souls can be conscious of one
another, associate, commune and be aware of one another’s state and
condition [GWB 169-170]. We understand that the departed soul can
remember its earthly life and recognize persons with whom it had
been associated.
However, through insights provided in the Tablet of Forel, we also
understand that memory is an attribute of the mind and that the mind
is dependent on the senses. Here, we face an enigma which compels us
to reflect on the relationship of mind and memory to the soul. Such
matters are mysteries and are ultimately paradoxical.
The Enigma of Consciousness
We are faced with enigmas on two fronts:
On one front, in neuroscience, we are faced with an enigma in
understanding the relationship of neurons and their connections to

Mystery of Consciousness
mind and consciousness and that neither the mind nor consciousness
can be located in the brain.
On another front, we are faced with the enigma of relationships
between the mind and the rational soul. Notwithstanding the
complexities of semantics and translation of concepts, their nature
and essence remain elusive and incomprehensible. Baha'u'llah writes:
Thou hast asked Me about the nature of the soul. Know
verily that the soul, is a sign of God, a heavenly gem whose
reality the most learned of men hath failed to grasp, and
whose mystery no mind, however acute, can ever hope to
unravel. [GWB 158]
At some level, these mysteries are paradoxical. Paradoxes are
intrinsic to the nature and essence of reality. Reality is vast and multi
dimensional; thus it can never be fully explained, fully stated nor
fully grasped. In the quantum world, light is both particle and wave;
this is clearly a paradox. As we attempt to explore these concepts and
the insights therein, it is likely that we may be facing mysteries
comparable to those of a quantum world, as proposed by several
neuroscientists.
Consciousness may be on the edge between the
quantum and classical worlds
It has been suggested that observations and findings in quantum
mechanics, may bear relevance to the relationships between the brain,
mind, soul, and consciousness. Few, among such phenomena are:
complementarity,
quantum
entanglement,
nonlocality,
the
uncertainty principle and ‘the observer effect’. A brief reference to
these follows.
The phenomenon of complementarity, is demonstrated by the
behavior of light which acts either as particle or as wave — never
both at the same time — depending on the design of the experiment.
Quantum entanglement, implies that a pair (or pairs) of particles
generated from the same source remain correlated, intimately and
permanently connected. Nonlocality, is an outcome of entanglement,
as entangled particles remain connected over time and space creating

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
non local relationships. Their connection is such that when one
particle is measured or manipulated, its counterpart is affected
instantaneously, regardless of the distance that separates them. The
uncertainty principle, known as Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle, is
a fundamental property of wavelike systems, such as the quantum
system. It places limits on precision in which measurements can be
made of particle position and momentum. Furthermore, ‘the observer
effect’ contributes to uncertainty in measurements as it implies that
the mere measurements of certain systems can fundamentally alter the
observed object.
Einstein, the co-founder of the quantum mechanic theory, referred
to nonlocal action — an absurdity of the quantum world — a ‘spooky
action at a distance’. Among many who have expounded on this
theme, are Robert Lanza (Biocentrism; How Life and Consciousness
are Keys to Understanding the True Nature of Universe) and most
recently, George Musser (Spooky Action at a Distance).
In summary- Consciousness may be at the edge, between the
quantum and classical worlds. Realities exist in multiple states
simultaneously: unified but separated realities remain connected over
time; multiple realities can condense into one unified entity; precise
location and momentum of quantum realities are indeterminate. The
quantum world is a world difficult to comprehend, as expressed by
Richard Feynman, Nobel Prize physicist in 1965, “I think I can safely
say that nobody understands quantum mechanics.” 8
Conclusion
Human consciousness, remains a mystery. The concepts of mind,
rational soul, and spirit can be probed, reflected on and explored in
order to garner the insights therein. At some level, however, these
remain elusive as our brains are limited and can grasp only partially
and incompletely. Our senses are limited: our vision can only detect a
limited range of the electromagnetic spectrum and our hearing only a
limited range of frequency.9
In trying to grasp the mystery of consciousness, we arrive at an
impasse. While yet in this earthly plane of existence, we can not
overpass this limit. We can, nonetheless, continue to seek
understanding, inspiration, enlightenment and contentment from the

Mystery of Consciousness
rich treasury of Bahá’í writings on the reality of the human soul, its
immortality and progress in the realms beyond.
This article started with, “The Mystery of Consciousness” and
concludes with, “The Enigma of Consciousness”. With a sense of
reverence, we stand in awe before the mysteries of the mind,
consciousness, soul, and the functioning of the human brain — its
billions of neurons and trillions of synapses and the rapid firing of its
neuron, at the rate of 1027 operations per second.
Sir John Eccles has suggested that the body and the brain may be
regarded as a superb computer, with the Soul or Self as its
programmer? (Evolution of the Brain: Creation of the Self 238). The
metaphor of the brain as computer has few proponents as well as
numerous opponents.
It has been expressed: “Nothing rendered in silicon even remotely
resembles a conscious mind.”10
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Damasio, Antonio. Self Comes to Mind: Constructing the Conscious Brain.
Vintage Books, a Division of Random House, Inc. New York, 2012
Dehaene, Stanislas. Consciousness and the Brain: Deciphering How the Brain
Codes Our Thoughts. Penguin Books, 2014
Eccles, John C. Evolution of the Brain: Creation of the Self, Routledge,
New York, 1991
Fitzgerald, M.J. Turlough, Gruener, Gregory, Muti, Estomi. Clinical
Neuroanatomy and Neuroscience, Elsevier, Saunders, Fifth Edition, 2007
Forel, August. Some Ants and other Insects: An Inquiry into The Psychic
Powers of Animals, translated from German by Professor William
Morton Wheeler, American Museum of History, New York, Chicago,
The Open Court Publishing, 1904
Goldberg, Elkhonon, The Wisdom Paradise, Gotham Books, Published by
Penguin Group, 2005
Kubler Ross, Elizabeth. Is There Life After Death. Scribner Classics, N.Y,
Lanza, Robert and Berman, Bob. Biocentrism; How Life and Consciousness
are Keys to Understanding the True Nature of Universe. Benbella Books,
Inc, Dallas, TX, 2009

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Lommel, Pim Van. Consciousness Beyond Life. Harper One, an Imprint of
Harper Collins Publishers, 2010
Musser, George. Spooky Action at a Distance. Scientific American, Farrar,
Straus and Giroux. New York, 2016
Nolte, John. The Human Brain, An Introduction to its Functional Anatomy,
Sixth Edition, Mosby Elsevier, 2008
Penfield, Wilder. The Mystery of the Mind: A Critical Study of
Consciousness and the Human Brain. Princeton University Press, 1975
Vader, John Paul. For the Good of Mankind, August Forel and the Bahá’í
Faith., George Ronald Oxford, 1984


NOTES
1 blogs.scientificamerican.com/news-blog/are-whales-smarter-than-we-are
2 Reticular formation is a diffuse network of neurons and nerve pathways in
the brainstem
3 Neocortex is the part of cerebral cortex which serves as the center of
higher functions in humans.
4 Among the numerous functions of thalamus is: It acts as relay between
different subcortical areas and the cerebral cortex..
5 Hypothalamus is part of the brain, below thalamus, concerned with body
temperature, hunger, thirst and other autonomic functions.
6 Gray matter (neurons) inside each cerebral hemisphere involved in
experiencing emotions
7 The hippocampus plays an important role: in consolidation of information
from short term memory to long term memory; and in spatial memory.
8 See Richard Feynman, the Character of Physical Law. MIT Press,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1995, 129
9 Between 20- and 20000 KHz
10 J. McFadden. Journal of Consciousness Studies 9 (4):23-50, 2002.

Sow the Seeds of My Divine Wisdom
in the Pure Soil of Thy Heart
Towards Coordinating Langs’ Communicative
Approach of Psychoanalysis
with the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang Klebel
A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi in 19491 states the
following:
It seems what we need now is a more profound and
coordinated Bahá’í scholarship in order to attract such men as
you are contacting.
The world has—at least the thinking world—caught up by now
with all the great and universal principles enunciated by
Bahá’u’lláh over 70 years ago, and so of course it does not
sound “new” to them. But we know that the deeper teachings,
the capacity of His projected World Order to re-create
society, are new and dynamic. It is these we must learn to
present intelligently and enticingly to such men!
What was true then is even more true today, almost 70 years later.
The Cause needs more Bahá’í scholars, people who not only
are devoted to it and believe in it and are anxious to tell

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
others about it, but also who have a deep grasp of the
Teachings and their significance, and who can correlate its
beliefs with the current thoughts and problems of the people
of the world. [SCHC 4]
The Universal House of Justice, the international governing body
of the Bahá’í Faith, stated on 6 February 1973 the following about
psychology:
Psychology is still a very young and inexact science, and as
the years go by Bahá’í psychologists, who know from the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh the true pattern of human life, will
be able to make great strides in the development of this
science, and will help profoundly in the alleviation of human
suffering. [SCHC 12]
The Guardian stated in a letter written on his behalf:
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís (who asked his
advice, and in general also) to study history, economics,
sociology, etc., in order to be au courant with all the
progressive movements and thoughts being put forth today,
and so that they could correlate these to the Bahá’í teachings.
What he wants the Bahá’ís to do is to study more, not to
study less. [SCHC 18]
While psychology is not mentioned here, it certainly is included as
one of the areas of study that must be correlated with the Bahá’í
teachings. Therefore, it must be seen as an obligation for a
psychologist who is a Bahá’í and has studied one of these sciences to
make an effort to correlate these areas of human knowledge with the
Bahá’í faith.
The purpose of this paper is to show another unexpected finding
in this search for correlating between today’s “thinking world” and
the Bahá’í Revelation. A known psychoanalyst, Robert Langs, who
wrote many volumes about his form of psychoanalytic practice,
which he calls the Communicative or Adaptive Approach, authored a
book late in his life about psychoanalysis and religion. He applied his
psychoanalytic technique to religious writings. He came up with
surprising ideas. Reading the book Beyond Yahweh and Jesus,

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
Bringing Death’s Wisdom to Faith, Spirituality, and Psychoanalysis2
gave birth to the following thoughts.
Robert Langs talks about divine wisdom and indicates that it is a
moral guidance of high quality and is placed in the unconscious mind,
only reachable by a specific psychoanalytic technique he calls trigger
decoding. While obviously having no idea of the Bahá’í Faith, and not
understanding Progressive Revelation and the fact that all
Manifestation are limited by the capacity of their audiences, he
appears to reach conclusions consistent with the Bahá’í Writings
about his interpretation of divine wisdom and the placement of it in
the deep unconscious mind. Obviously, his understanding of religion
was limited by the prevailing Christian faith he was familiar with. The
mentioning of the idea of divine wisdom immediately brought to
attention the use this term has in the Bahá’í Faith.
Bahá’u’lláh, in His Writings frequently refers to “Divine
Wisdom,” and clearly places it into the human heart, like in this
Hidden Word:
O SON OF MY HANDMAID!
Quaff from the tongue of the merciful the stream of divine
mystery, and behold from the dayspring of divine utterance
the unveiled splendor of the daystar of wisdom.
Sow the seeds of My divine wisdom in the pure soil of the
heart, and water them with the waters of certitude, that the
hyacinths of knowledge and wisdom may spring up fresh and
green from the holy city of the heart. [HW 78]
He further connects divine wisdom with consultation and
compassion, indicating human mutual consultation as an element in
this Wisdom.
The heaven of divine wisdom is illumined with the two
luminaries of consultation and compassion … [TB 126]
From this understanding, the bridge can be made to the
psychoanalytic therapy, which in Langs’ approach is communicative

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
and brings new truth from the unconscious to the conscious mind
when practiced with compassion and understanding.
This presentation makes the daring assumption that the concept of
Divine Wisdom in the Bahá’í Writings can be coordinated with the
same concept in the writings of Robert Langs. This can help us to not
only better understand Langs’ writings, but also to understand the
Bahá’í Revelation in a new way, as reflected in modern psychology.
It is this author’s opinion that the psychoanalytic unconscious can
be placed in the heart since in heart transplants dream memories have
been transplanted with the physical heart. With this assumption a
better understanding of psychology is possible and the findings of the
HeartMath Institute about the human heart are supported as well.
The Bahá’í Writings use the word heart frequently and even state
that the heart is the seat of the Divine Revelation. Usually, this is
understood as a metaphorical use of the term heart. In this paper a
different interpretation is presented, which is only the opinion of this
author, and is presented to the Bahá’í Community for consultative
critique. As has been presented in previous papers the author
understands the Bahá’í concept heart not in a metaphorical sense, but
rather believes that the physical heart with its nervous system is used
by the rational faculty as an instrument, like the brain is used in the
same way as Bahá’u’lláh stated when talking about the mind.
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing
are but one single reality which hath manifold expressions
owing to the diversity of its instruments. [SLH 235]
This is understood by this author as meaning that all senses and the
brain and the heart are inspired or are used by the human spirit as
instruments to express what the spirit or soul of man intends to
express in thought, word, or action. It appears to this author that
Bahá’u’lláh sees the unity of man in a new way and it is difficult to
express this in our present-day way of thinking and many attempts
will have to be made to present a better understanding of this truth,
as can be done in this paper.

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
This kind of coordination is valuable, and recommended by Shoghi
Effendi. It is leading to a deeper understanding of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh and assists the teaching efforts of scholars as well.
Langs, who seemed to be unaware of the Bahá’í Writings,
recommended something that was already revealed and had been part
of the Bahá’í Faith for over a hundred years. He did not know that
what he predicted for the future was already expressed and happening
in a religious community. What is new about his approach is the fact
that he believed that this wisdom lies in the deep unconscious of the
human mind.
When the assumption is made that the deep unconscious mind of
Langs is in the heart—and we will develop this thought below—both
the heart as described in the Bahá’í Writings and the deep
unconscious mind as explained by Langs can be correlated for a
better understanding of both the heart and the unconscious mind.
Religion must not only add divine psychological wisdom to
its belief system, it also must be able to find gentle but firm
ways to enforce our deep unconscious moral guidelines….
For the new religion, this much needed moral enforcer should
be modeled on our deep unconscious system of morality and
ethics.…
Showing humankind, the grim reality of such unconsciously
orchestrated punishments is likely to be one of the most
fearsome messages delivered by the new version of God to
which this book is pointing.
This last sentence Langs formulated after he analyzed the story of
Cain and Abel in the Bible, where he found that evil deeds have
punishment as an internal unconscious consequence.
Bahá’u’lláh stated: “The heaven of divine wisdom is illumined with
the two luminaries of consultation and compassion.” This appears to
indicate that the role of communicative therapy, which could be
understood as a special form of consultation, is important to the
understanding of divine wisdom. Additionally, Bahá’u’lláh stated that
“the canopy of world order is upraised upon the two pillars of reward

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
and punishment” [TB 126], the understanding of which does
underscore what Langs found in analyzing the biblical stories of the
Old and New Testament. Langs described at length the connection
between denial of death and violent action, and attributes this to our
unconscious mind. What is an unusual occurrence is the fact that
Langs was not a religious person most of his life and he mentioned
this fact in his book. But what he found in analyzing his patients
made him eventually believe in the truth of religion and in the
importance of it.
According to Langs, all these processes are in the unconscious
mind. The conscious mind ignores these facts, but deep down we
know, and psychoanalysis brings these motives into the open. Langs
makes a very interesting statement. He connects death anxiety with
evil and immorality when talking about the Garden of Eden, stating it
this way.
Finally, it is well to notice that while wisdom, sin, and death
are at issue, neither evil nor morality are as yet manifest in
the picture. This too speaks for failed wisdom and
unmastered death anxiety as the fundamentals from which
evil and immorality emerge. [Langs, 76]
This coordination of the writings of a psychoanalyst with the Bahá’í
Faith is one small step towards a more profound and coordinated
Bahá’í scholarship as indicated by the Guardian.
Correlation
Shoghi Effendi uses this word whenever he talks about scholarship
and the need to correlate the Bahá’í Writings with modern thought
and thinking. What does this mean, and how do we have to
understand it? Merriam-Webster, among other dictionaries, defines
the word correlate this way:
A phenomenon that accompanies another, also paralleling it,
and being related in some way to it.
Further, the word correlation is defined this way:

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
The state or relation of being correlated; specifically: a
relation existing between phenomena or things or between
mathematical or statistical variables which tend to vary, be
associated, or occur together in a way not expected on the
basis of chance alone.
This seems to be the way Shoghi Effendi understood this word, and
this is the way it will be used in this paper. We talk about a
relationship between phenomena that is not expected on the basis of
chance alone but is based on a real relationship. The relationship
between ideas and thoughts that constitutes such a correlation is an
internal relationship in this case because we can exclude any physical
or external relation, since most of these modern thinkers we quote as
being correlated with thoughts expressed in the Bahá’í Writings did
not know these writings.
Consequently, we must explain how a correlation can exist
without a physical or external relationship.
If there is the possibility that ideas expressed in the Bahá’í
Writings are correlated with ideas of today’s thinkers, we must
consider the following facts.
1. According to Shoghi Effendi, there is a relationship between
the Bahá’í Writings and thoughts of modern thinkers, there is a
correlation.
2. These ideas and thoughts occur together.
3. This relationship is not accidental or a product of chance alone.
4. Logically, this relationship can be caused either by a
dependency of one side on the other or by a mutual third party
influencing both sides of the correlation.
5. Considering the case of the Bahá’í Writings and modern
thinkers, most of these thinkers had never heard about the
Bahá’í Faith or read any of the Writings
6. If there was no direct influence from the Writings to modern
thinkers, how can this relationship be explained?
Bahá’u’lláh gives us the explanation.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Erelong shall We bring into being through thee exponents of
new and wondrous sciences, of potent and effective crafts,
and shall make manifest through them that which the heart of
none of Our servants hath yet conceived. Thus, do We
bestow upon whom We will whatsoever We desire, and thus
do We withdraw from whom We will what We had once
bestowed. [SLH 35]
In this statement, it is revealed that the power of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh creates these modern sciences and new thoughts and gives
it to whomever He decides. Here is the talk of a spiritual influence
that creates new understanding, knowledge, and sciences and crafts—
or we could say technologies—that were unheard of before. When it
is proven that there were ideas expressed in the Bahá’í Writings and
50 or 100 years later the same ideas surfaced in modern writers who
never heard of the Bahá’í Faith, what must be assumed? Especially
when these writers very painstakingly documented every source in
their writings and never even mentioned anything about Bahá’í
Writings. What must we think?
Sometimes ideas surface in more than one place.
Physical nearness or remoteness is of no importance; the
essential fact is the spiritual affinity and ideal nearness. Judas
Iscariot was for a long time favored in the holy court of His
Holiness Christ, yet he was entirely far and remote; while
Paul, the apostle, was in close embrace with His Holiness.
[TAB3, 719]
Here we are reminded by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that it is not the physical
contact, or the actual physical texts read between writers that makes
a correlation of ideas possible, but that there can be a nearness of
ideas and spiritual affinity that can be the cause of such a correlation.
If these modern writers had never read one sentence of the Bahá’í
Revelation, there still can be a spiritual affinity and a nearness of
ideas expressed that becomes evident in closer observation and
studies. The example of the Apostle Paul explains that fact. He only
saw Jesus in a vision, never heard him talk, and he still was so close to
his ideas that he is regarded as his apostle. Naturally, he did hear
about Jesus when he was introduced into the Christin faith after his

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
conversion. On the other hand, Judas heard every word of Jesus
directly and was not following Him but betrayed his Master.
There is, we must assume, a spiritual transition of ideas possible
between people who have never met. This is what Bahá’u’lláh
indicates when stating that He brings into the world “wondrous
sciences, potent and effective crafts” (SLH 35) through any people,
scientists, and business people, not necessarily through Bahá’ís who
believe in Him and read His words, but through many other people,
most of whom have never heard of Him.
In this paper, we are following up this affinity of ideas as
observed in the reading of the book of Robert Langs and comparing
the ideas expressed in it to the Bahá’í Writings, finding in this
process a correlation between them.
In this paper, the following is attempted.
1. To correlate the Bahá’í Revelation with psychoanalysis as
presented by Robert Langs in his book Beyond Yahweh and
Jesus, Bringing Death’s Wisdom to Faith, Spirituality, and
Psychoanalysis.
2. The points of correlation are:
•  Divine Wisdom

•  Consultation and Compassion

•  The Unconscious and the Heart
When reading Langs, we must realize that he did not know the
Bahá’í Faith. Consequently, he could not have known the following
Bahá’u’lláh ideas. The Bahá’í reader of his books must make the
necessary correction of his findings with these principles in mind.
o Progressive Revelation
o Unknowability of God
o Role of Manifestation
What Langs found, when analyzing his patients, was the idea of
divine wisdom, which he places in the deep unconscious mind and
connects with profound moral and ethical understanding and other
basic ideas that seem to be general human ideas, because he calls them
archetypes in the Jungian sense. All human beings have these

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
archetypes in their deep unconscious mind, or we would say in their
heart, but often they are denied and repressed and have no influence
in life. It is religion that has in the past explored this fact. Langs
found access to it through his kind of analysis. What Langs calls
archetypes in the unconscious, which are common to all humans and
which are moral principles, is compared in the following by this
author with conscience.
Conscience
What is meant by the term conscience? Etymologically, the word
means “knowing with,” which implies that there is another knowing
besides the normal conscious knowing that comes with it. This
knowing is not conscious but, as we say today, it is unconscious, yet
is somehow known in a derived way. This is explained to children as
an inner voice that tells you what is right or wrong. You can ignore it
and do something that is wrong. If you do that, you will have a bad
conscience, a bad feeling, a feeling of guilt. You can keep ignoring it
and eventually the bad feeling will go away, but then you will be a
bad person doing bad things. This was the story I learned in my
family, which was a good Catholic family going to Mass every Sunday
and praying together every day.
In fact, psychologically this makes good sense, especially if we
consider that there is, in the deep unconscious, a divine guidance, a
divine wisdom, that gives us moral standards. The difference is only
the awareness. Langs claims that this deep unconscious can only be
found in psychoanalysis, but it is told to children that they can feel
it. He found it in analyzing his patients, and he recognized that these
patients had little or no awareness of this in their conscious mind,
which is given to denial and ignorance.
Freud stated that analysis is after-education, seeming to imply that
what went wrong in the childhood of his patients must now be
corrected in analysis.
Langs felt that religion was not doing its job, so he tried to invent
a new profession, called theological psychoanalysis.
All of this points to the need to establish a new science and
profession that can effectively unit psychoanalysis with

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
religion, and clinical and quantitative scientific data with
matters of faith and belief. I would call this profession
theological psychoanalysis. (Langs, 176, italics in the original)
Langs really expects that these psychoanalysts can develop a “rational
secular spirituality,” contrary to this opinion, it is this writer’s idea
that the religion providing this connection between psychology and
theology exists already in the Bahá’í Faith and this spirituality is
already present and needs only to be connected with psychological
and psychoanalytical understanding of the human nature.
This is how Langs describes the difference between conscious mind
and Divine Wisdom:
The conscious mind … is too devoted to the denial and
ignorance. We must seek answers that come from an
understanding that God – or nature – has chosen to locate our
greatest mental resource and divine wisdom where it is out of
the reach of conscious awareness and thinking in the Deep
Unconscious Mind, which we can access only through trigger
decoding. (Langs, 175, italics added)
What Langs found in his kind of psychoanalysis as a knowledge
and what he calls an archetype and what he finds in the deep
unconscious mind, which he studied extensively, is known as
conscience, a “knowing with knowing” that is a knowing based on
feelings and coming from the knowing heart, as will be explained
later in this paper.
How can we explain this knowing with knowing? In this writer’s
understanding, this is similar with the knowing of dreams. This
author assumes that dreamwork is performed in the heart, because
heart transplants have proven that dream memory is in the heart and
can be transplanted with the heart. Heart experiences are not as much
known as primarily felt. They can become known, but only as a
knowing with knowing; a knowing that is more felt than known and
is organized differently than logical knowing. When we know and
talk about our dreams, we know this is not the whole story; this is not
the full meaning of what we dreamt. But this is all we can rationally
know and tell. The rest is feelings.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
If it is a feeling, it does not come from the brain; it must come
from the heart. This is what this paper will present; that the divine
wisdom is in the heart, where the deep unconsciousness is located,
and the heart expresses itself in feelings, not in concepts and words.
That is the reason in psychoanalytic dream analysis, dreams are not
logically understood but are associated with and developed and
interpreted in that way.
Another question is, how is conscience developed? Langs calls it
Divine Wisdom, so it must be from God. In the Catholic Church the
same is believed, but children must learn it from their parents, from
their educators in school, and from the priest in church. As it will be
demonstrated, even psychanalysis today has found that this is true;
children have a real understanding of God at an early age, and so
attribute this inner voice as coming from God, or of being related to
the word of God, or the revelation of God.
Langs calls the Divine Wisdom an archetype, referring to this
Jungian term. In my opinion, it is better called something related to
and depending on culture, and the question of whether it is inherited
or learned is difficult to solve. Most likely it is both; there is an
inherited ability to develop conscience, and the actual content of
conscience—the moral principles—are learned from the culture a
person is growing up in or developed later through life experiences.
What is innate is the fact that every human being immediately knows
when something bad happens to them, and according to the Golden
Rule, this knowledge should then be generalized to all people. During
the growing-up process, these learned principles should be developed
and changed according to the investigating mind in adulthood. If it is
seen that way, it becomes clear why the Bahá’í writings place a high
value on education.
By and large, in modern Western society, this knowledge of
conscience is getting lost, and no longer used in the education of
children. Consequently, children—and then adults—have no inner
moral guidance, so their behavior is becoming increasingly
destructive, criminal, and evil, a fact that can be observed today.

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
Divine Wisdom is in the Heart
We must ask how Langs, who was a classical psychoanalyst, came
to author a book about the Christian and Hebrew Bible and his
version of psychoanalysis. using the term Divine Wisdom as a central
concept. He explains it as a case of serendipity and not a plan. He
describes the fact that he was confronted with Buddhist thinking
when he found:
Striking parallels between my new version of psychoanalysis
and Buddhist thinking about the design of the human mind. …
Sensing that there was some kind of broad and meaningful
connection between my adaptive version of psychoanalysis
and
spirituality
—
as
a
classically
trained
Freudian
psychoanalyst, spirituality and religion were not on my radar
screen — I embarked on a new and unexpected adventure.
(Langs, X)
After authoring over a hundred books about psychoanalysis and
his version of it, he discovered this connection and followed it up,
applying it later to Islam, Judaism, and Christianity, authoring the
book we are here correlating with the Bahá’í Writings six years before
his death at age 86.
It has been mentioned that Langs places the divine wisdom in the
deep unconscious mind, when he said that this part of the mind is
unconscious, so it cannot be reached by normal consciousness, and
divine wisdom is deep within this unconsciousness, yet it is still part
of the mind. How do we define mind in a way that this process is
possible and understandable? It seems mind means here all human
possible ways of understanding reality: physical reality and spiritual
reality. When mind is defined this way, it includes all understanding,
all knowledge, even the unconscious knowledge that might be denied
and ignored by the conscious mind, as Lang mentions in his
description of divine wisdom.
We assume here that this deep unconscious mind is in the heart,
like the conscious mind is in the brain. Or we can say, maybe more
accurately, the mind uses the brain for the conscious operations and
the heart for the unconscious operations. In other words, only when

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
the mind uses the brain, we aware of what happens. When the mind
uses the heart, we are unaware; these processes are unconscious. But
we have feelings and dreams that we eventually become aware of in
some way.
To understand that the heart can function like the brain this
author uses the findings of the HeartMath Institute, which
demonstrates that the heart has a collection of nerves that together
make something like a “little brain of the heart”
The heart is a sensory organ and an information encoding and
processing center with an extensive, intrinsic nervous system,
enabling it to learn, remember and make functional decision
independent of the cranial brain.3
In fact, the research into this new knowledge has produced a healing
process that can improve the lives of people suffering from diverse
illnesses that plague modern man, as is used by this psychologist and
author in his clinical practice.
There are two reasons why we assume the unconscious mind is in
the heart, or better, that the human mind uses the heart when
unconscious processes and contents are involved. All that is in the
heart is unconscious. All we know about it are the feelings these
processes create in the body. Consequently, the brain—or the mind
using the brain—recognizes these feelings, gives them names, and
thinks about them.
We all have observed when somebody gets angry; he will show it in
his body behavior. And when an observer tells that person he is angry,
he will often yell back that he is not angry. This fact demonstrates
that he is angry in his heart. His body already shows this, but his
brain has not recognized that he is angry, so he wants to say, “I am
not angry.” But unknown to his conscious mind, he yells, because in
his heart and body, he is already angry.
This is easily observable in anger; but even in loving feelings, the
mind often does not know what happens, the fact of which is
exploited in many novels and shows where the loving actions are
described while the person in question denies being in love.

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
The other reason we assume the unconscious is in the heart are the
Bahá’í Writings. No matter how we understand heart, metaphorically,
or as an instrument of the spirit, Bahá’u’lláh states clearly that Divine
Wisdom is in the heart and nowhere else.
I swear by God, O esteemed and honoured friend! Shouldst
thou ponder these words in thine heart, thou wilt of a
certainty find the doors of divine wisdom and infinite
knowledge flung open before thy face. [KI 102)]
One must ponder the words of Bahá’u’lláh in one’s heart, and this
will open the doors of Divine Wisdom and fling the knowledge
before thy face. This process is certain; but how can we describe it
psychologically? In another Word, Bahá’u’lláh uses a similar picture
to describe this process, when it happens to somebody who arises to
proclaim his cause.
Here Bahá’u’lláh speaks about a flood of Divine Knowledge that
will gush out of the heart of the believer.
Arise in the name of Him Who is the Object of all
knowledge, and, with absolute detachment from the learning
of men, lift up your voices and proclaim His Cause. I swear
by the Day Star of Divine Revelation!
The very moment ye arise, ye will witness how a flood of
Divine knowledge will gush out of your hearts, and will
behold the wonders of His heavenly wisdom manifested in all
their glory before you. Were ye to taste of the sweetness of
the sayings of the All-Merciful, ye would unhesitatingly
forsake your selves, and would lay down your lives for the
Well-Beloved. [GWB 83]
What we are told here are two things. The first is the fact that
when a believer ponders the Word of the Manifestation in his heart, a
door opens in our heart and the Divine Wisdom will open itself up
and be seen before our face. How can we describe this in
psychological terms? First, it is said the words or writings must be
pondered in the heart, which means not only an intellectual or factual
understanding is necessary.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
This fact indicates that these words are written not only for the
intellect, but especially for the heart. The words must move us
emotionally not only intellectually. This emotional movement is then
experienced in front of our face; it is something we see more than we
understand it. This is similar to our understanding of poesy or
dreams; we read them intellectually and we remember them like a
story, but when we do this, something else happens.
These poems or dreams become an experience, an emotional
experience that is perceived in a different way. It is perceived as if
the truth of these words stand in front of our face. The same must
happen with the words of Revelation; it is like a surprising knowledge
or understanding that comes to us like a vision, like an insight of a
deeper kind, which then cannot be intellectually or logically analyzed.
It must be experienced. It is life-changing, and experienced with total
certitude.
In the other verse, Bahá’u’lláh presupposes that the words of the
Revelation are in the heart and he describes what happens when the
believer arises to teach the cause. Again, this is a happening, it cannot
be deliberately produced. Bahá’u’lláh describes it like a flood or
fountain erupting from the heart of the speaker. The flood of this
emotional truth will gush out from the speaker and Bahá’u’lláh
describes this event as life-changing. It appears it is changing not
only the speaker, but also the listener—if he is open to this message.
Or in other words, if he is a seeker for truth and if his heart is ready
to hear the truth of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
This emotional and life-changing event will make anyone who
experiences it “forsake your selves, and would lay down your lives for
the Well-Beloved” (GWB 83). It causes a total life change, a
conversion as it is usually called, that converts or turns around the
life of a person. The condition for this event to happen is the
openness of the heart or what is described as having a pure heart and
the honest desire to find the truth. Also called independent
investigation.
This inner voice, this inner feeling can be communicated from the
speaker to the listener as it is described above, and Bahá’u’lláh
described this inner meaning of the heart in his mystic book, The
Seven Valleys.

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
The tongue faileth in describing these three Valleys, and
speech falleth short. The pen steppeth not into this region,
the ink leaveth only a blot. In these planes, the nightingale of
the heart hath other songs and secrets, which make the heart
to stir and the soul to clamor, but this mystery of inner
meaning may be whispered only from heart to heart, confided
only from breast to breast.
Only heart to heart can speak the bliss of mystic knowers;
No messenger can tell it and no missive bear it. [SVFV]4
What Langs describes as our “greatest mental resource and divine
wisdom” seems to be described by Bahá’u’lláh much better and more
profoundly as mystic knowing, which is in the heart and is
communicated from heart to heart, while words and writings are
called ineffective and falling short because if there is no response of
the heart, this Divine Wisdom is not communicated. Langs
discovered this, stating that the conscious mind is given to denial and
ignorance as far as the Divine Wisdom is concerned.
Consultation and Compassion
The next question that arises is the issue of why Langs, who
describes himself during his life as a-religious, authored this book
about divine wisdom and religion a few years before his death. Langs
himself gives us the answer, describing that he found this truth in his
patients when he was analyzing them in his newly developed
approach, which he called communicative psychoanalysis. He found
religion in analyzing his patients and finding the truth about the deep
unconscious, the death anxiety, and what he called divine wisdom.
Then he attempted to analyze some books of the Christian Bible,
especially the book of Genesis, which he described in his book. This is
the basis of this investigation, as well as its correlation to the Bahá’í
Writing.
We must ask, how is it possible that a therapist can find religion
when treating his patients? What is happening in therapy that can
bring the truth of religion into the open, so it can be seen by the
therapist? Actually, Bahá’u’lláh gives us an answer that explains this
possibility.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
The heaven of divine wisdom is illumined with the two
luminaries of consultation and compassion and the canopy of
world order is upraised upon the two pillars of reward and
punishment. [TB 126]
Bahá’u’lláh here states that the light that brings about divine wisdom,
the light that illuminates it, is consultation and compassion. So, if
Langs’ psychoanalytic approach has both ingredients, consultation,
and compassion, it makes sense that one can find divine wisdom by
practicing this approach.
This writer has been supervised in this approach and has used this
approach in his therapy and when supervising students. The
characteristic of this approach is to learn a specific form of listening
to the patient, which is systematic and difficult, but it brings out the
deepest concern of the patient. Langs wrote a whole book about the
listening process, and from this writer’s experience, it is a process
that deeply and compassionately involves the therapist with the
patient and brings out the most profound emotions and most hidden
thoughts of the client. When this listening process is used, the talk of
the client can be interpreted as the unconscious reasons and motives
that move the client during the interview.
Anybody familiar with the consultation process as it is practiced
according to the instruction of Bahá’u’lláh and his interpreters,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, the son and great-great son of
Bahá’u’lláh, will admit that it is based on the duty of all members of a
group to listening with an open heart to all that is said by any
member of the group, disregarding any consideration of education or
age or other reasons. It has very much in common with the listening
process as described by Langs, even though the latter had developed
this process and described it in psychological terms.
It is this writer’s personal conviction that Langs had been
influenced in a spiritual way by the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and was
guided by him to find religion and divine wisdom at the end of his
long life, a life devoted to listening and understanding his patients on
the deepest level. Langs developed his listening process on his own
and from the psychoanalytic tradition, and he never mentioned
knowledge of the Bahá’í writings or religion,

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
When Bahá’u’lláh talks about consultation and compassion, we
can easily find these ideas in Langs’ description of psychoanalytic
therapy and psychoanalysis. Empathy and compassion are closely
related; actually, compassion includes empathy, and is the active part,
which is supported by the empathic understanding that leads to
helpful action, like in therapy where true understanding leads to
interpretation that allows the client to change. Langs stated that
empathy is an essential part of therapy. The therapist must have:
a capacity for empathy, which must operate first on a
manifest level, so that the therapist experiences along with
the patient aspects of his or her manifest struggles. Empathy
must also operate on a derivative level and involve
unconscious communication. Here the therapist must
temporarily share and immediately experience the patient’s
unconscious fantasy constellations, unconscious perceptions,
and unconscious affects and conflicts. Most present- day
studies of empathy have been naive, surface-oriented, and
lacking in validating methodology.5
Again, Langs indicated that this empathy must go beyond the
manifest observation and include the unconscious truth that is
communicated. When the assumption is made that the unconscious is
in the heart, we have a psychological process that includes the heart.
It is a heart-to-heart process, and what is communicated is something
that is unknown. Coming towards knowledge in this process, it is
interpreted in a known way and understood as something
unconscious, and is now known and can be used for the healing of
the patient.
Bahá’u’lláh described this process as mystic knowing when stating:
“but this mystery of inner meaning may be whispered only from heart
to heart, confided only from breast to breast.” One could conclude
from this verse that mystic knowing is knowing the unconscious,
where the truth, the divine wisdom is located. The psychoanalytic
listener reaches into the depth of the heart of his patient and can,
when his heart is open for this message, encounter a place where
religion in its mystic understanding can be found, as the Bahá’í
writings say.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
According to Bahá’u’lláh, this understanding is not facilitated by
human learning, but only by the “purity of heart, chastity of soul,
and freedom of spirit” (KI 210). It is dependent on the morality or
honesty of the investigator, not on their education. It is a quality of
the heart that is crucial in this knowing. It is hoped that every
therapist has this quality and this freedom of spirit to understand
what is going on in the heart of the patient he/she is treating.
Bahá’u’lláh talks here about the understanding of His Revelation,
which is given to anyone who has these qualities. We apply this
understanding to the understanding of the heart of each other, so this
heart-to-heart understanding is possible.
The understanding of His words and the comprehension of
the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise
dependent upon human learning. They depend solely upon
purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit. This
is evidenced by those who, today, though without a single
letter of the accepted standards of learning, are occupying
the loftiest seats of knowledge; and the garden of their hearts
is adorned, through the showers of divine grace, with the
roses of wisdom and the tulips of understanding. Well is it
with the sincere in heart for their share of the light of a
mighty Day! [KI 210]
We are repeating here again the quote of Bahá’u’lláh where he stated:
In these planes, the nightingale of the heart hath other songs
and secrets, which make the heart to stir and the soul to
clamor, but this mystery of inner meaning may be whispered
only from heart to heart, confided only from breast to
breast.
It makes sense that this heart-to-heart communication happens
between people who sincerely talk to each other. This happens in
therapy when the therapist tries to understand the deepest feelings
and unconscious thoughts of his patient. What is a mystic knower?
one could ask. Originally, the word mystic meant secret, a knowledge
that is secret until it is revealed. Today the word mystic implies
something that is spiritual or supernatural, not belonging to the
world of the senses, being beyond all physical reality. So, a mystic

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
knower would be described as a person that can reach into the deep
unconscious thoughts of others and can understand the deep meaning
of the revelation; someone who speaks to the heart and not only to
reason.
Religion and Death Anxiety
In his books written at the end of his life, Langs talked
increasingly about death and death anxiety. He claimed that this
anxiety is not in the conscious brain, but in the deep unconscious
mind. According to our understanding, it is in the heart.
Many of the most hurtful and damaging aspects of
emotionally charged incidents fail to register in awareness,
but instead, are perceived subliminally or unconsciously and
processed by a deep unconscious mental system.
Perception without conscious awareness is a basic capacity of
the emotion processing mind. [Langs, 12]
What Langs calls here emotion processing mind, we would call the
heart. While the mind using the brain does not have any awareness of
it, the conscious mind avoids and denies these perceptions.
Once these unconsciously perceived inputs have been
registered deep unconsciously, they are silently processed
adaptively by the deep unconscious mind.
The results of the entire unconscious experiences are then
encoded in dreams and other storied forms. These incidents
are always linked to the experience of death.
The conscious mind is intent on avoiding the recognition and
impact of these disturbing emotionally charged incidents.
[Langs, 13]
Here it is explained what dreams are doing; they deal with
unconscious fears and threats and attempt to solve them. If they
cannot do this, we experience a nightmare and wake up full of
anxiety. The new aspect Langs presented in this book and in others is

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
the importance of death anxiety and the fact that we all experience it,
but deny it consciously, yet try to deal with it unconsciously, in the
heart. Langs further claimed that only religion can deal with this
anxiety.
Not understanding the meaning of progressive revelation, he
blamed the Mosaic religion and the Christian religion for not having
solved this problem properly. That is expressed in the title of his
book Beyond Yahweh and Jesus with the subtitle: Bringing Death’s
Wisdom to Faith, Spirituality, and Psychoanalysis. In the Bahá’í
understanding of progressive revelation, the Manifestation can only
communicate what the people at the time can understand, so blaming
Yahweh and Jesus does not make sense. Additionally, Langs does not
understand that Yahweh is the word for the unknown God, while it is
Moses and Jesus who brought the new Revelation described in the
Bible and both are Manifestations, on the same level, but only
communicating to the world what can be understood at their time.
Conclusion
What Langs perceived correctly is the fact that the answers of
both religions are not satisfactory for our times and the maturational
stage the world has achieved today. Not knowing the Bahá’í faith, he
hoped that psychoanalysis could be the solution for this lack of
understanding,
inventing
a
new
profession
of
“theological
psychoanalysis” (Langs, 176). He asked those who would take up this
avocation to be versed in theology and in his special approach to
psychoanalysis, which he called the adaptive approach, because “the
therapy situation is, at present, the arena where expressions of divine
wisdom and morality are most accessible and best investigated.”
[Langs, 176]
Langs found the relationship between religion and psychoanalysis
when he stated:
The bottom line is that because the adaptive approach is
centered on how we cope with emotionally charged traumatic
incident and thus on death related traumas, it bridges over to
and joins forces with religion in seeking ways to understand
the nature of these traumas and finding the best possible

Coordinating Langs’ Psychoanalysis
means of coping with them using divine cognitive insights in
one case and divine religious insights in the other. [Langs, 160]
It is this writer’s opinion, this is only true in a limited sense, because
Langs was not aware that this experience was fully realized in the
Bahá’í writings, where it is clearly stated that the divine wisdom is
experienced in the heart. The importance of this fact cannot be
overestimated. It is rather encouraging for a Bahá’í reader of Langs’
book to find what Langs found from treating his patients and that
these findings, with the necessary corrections, were expressed in the
Bahá’í writing more than a century before Langs found them.
What is added here is the fact that this is divine wisdom, and
maybe understood as Langs’ deep unconscious is in the heart. This is
a new idea that makes the findings about the unconscious mind more
real and more understandable, and this understanding is an
improvement beyond the thoughts of Freud and Jung and all of their
followers, including Langs, about this topic.
This paper demonstrated what Shoghi Effendi stated half a century
ago when he said: “The world has—at least the thinking world—caught
up by now with all the great and universal principles enunciated by
Bahá’u’lláh.” One of these universal principles is the idea of divine
wisdom, which comes from the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and is placed
in the heart. This is the guide we have for moral behavior, and
ultimately depends on the revelation from God, be it manifested in
Jesus, or Moses, Bahá’u’lláh, or any other Messenger of God. It
appears that what is called conscience, or the inner voice of the heart,
is based on the divine wisdom in the heart. When an unreligious
psychoanalyst, at the end of his life, finds a similar concept and
authors a book about religion and psychoanalysis, that fact
demonstrates the power and effectiveness of the revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh in our world. Bahá’u’lláh, quoting the Bible, said it this
way to everyone who can hear, see, or perceive the divine wisdom of
His Truth.
By Him Who is the Desire of the world!
This is the day for eyes to see and for ears to hear, for hearts
to perceive and for tongues to speak forth.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Blessed are they that have attained thereunto; blessed are they
that have sought after and recognized it!
This is the day whereon every man may accede unto
everlasting honour, for whatsoever hath streamed forth from
the Pen of Glory in regard to any soul is adorned with the
ornament of immortality.
Again, blessed are they that have attained thereunto. [TU π18]


NOTES
1 Written on 3 July 1949 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual
believer, Compilations, Scholarship, p. 27.
2 Jason Aronson, New York, 2008.
3 Rollin McCraty, Mike Atkinson, and Raymond Trevor Bradley:
“Electrophysiological Evidence of Intuition.” Part 1, “The Surprising Role
of the Heart” in Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 10,
no. 1, (2004): 140.
4 This is quoted from the third paragraph of the Valley of Contentment and
in the last two lines Bahá’u’lláh quotes from Ḥáfiẓ: Shamsu’d-Dín
Muḥammad, of Shíráz, died ca. 1389 A.D. One of the greatest of ersian
poets.
5 Robert Langs, MD, Psychotherapy, a Basic Text. Jason Aronson Inc,
London (1990): 549-560.

The Baha’i Writings and the Buddhist
Doctrine of Emptiness: An Initial
Survey
Ian Kluge
1. Preface
This paper is an expansion of the section on emptiness in a
previous paper, “Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological
Rapprochement” (Lights of Irfan, Vol. 8, 2007). The purpose of the
2007 paper was to show that the Bahá’í Writings and key Buddhist
teachings were either in agreement or on a convergent path in regards
to key ontological issues. The current paper carries that project
further by focusing specifically on the Buddhist doctrine of
emptiness and exploring the extent of the agreements and
convergences with the Bahá’í Writings.
For Bahá’ís, there are at least four major reasons to study the
Buddhist doctrine of emptiness. In the first place, emptiness is the
signature teaching of Buddhism, the culmination of its teachings
about impermanence, dependent origination and ‘no-self’ however
these may be interpreted by the various schools. Thus, an
understanding of Buddhism requires acquaintance with the doctrine
of emptiness. Since the Bahá’í Faith recognizes Buddhism as a
revelation from God, such understanding is also important because
Buddhism is part of the history of God’s unfolding revelation to
humankind and, as such, offers knowledge about our relationship to
the transcendent. However, it should be noted that we can only be

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
sure of the Four Noble Truths — from which the doctrine of
emptiness is derived — and the Eight-fold Noble Path as originating
with the Buddha Himself; these two doctrines on which the diverse
interpretations of the Buddha’s Teachings are based, are common to
all the schools and sects of Buddhism.
Second, if we wish to live peacefully with our neighbors, we must
know what they believe in order to understand and appreciate them
as human beings. There are over 379 million Buddhists in Asia, and
countless more living in cultures influenced by its teachings. 1 Third,
knowledge of Buddhism and its key doctrines is necessary for
understanding intellectual and spiritual developments in the modern
world. Buddhism is making significant and well-publicized in-roads
into the intellectual and religious life of North America and Europe.
The Dalai Lama, the charismatic leader of Tibetan Gelugpa Buddhism,
is now a universally recognized figure who speaks to packed sports
stadiums about Buddhist philosophy and living, as well as about the
independence of Tibet. His books are best-sellers. Obviously what he
says meets some spiritual needs in large numbers of people. Fourth, a
better understanding of Buddhism in general and its signature
doctrine of emptiness allows Bahá’ís to engage in intelligent and in-
depth inter-faith dialogue with Buddhists and those with Buddhist
sympathies. Such dialogue can also help deepen our understanding of
the Bahá’í Writings from new perspectives.
This paper will provide further evidence that despite differences
of expression, the Bahá’í Writings and Buddhist sutras show
agreements and strong convergences on the subject of emptiness and
its associated doctrines. The author interprets this as additional
support for Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching of the essential unity of all
religions.
2. Introduction to Emptiness
The Buddhist doctrine of emptiness is the logical culmination of
the Buddha’s teachings on suffering, impermanence, dependent
origination and ‘no-self.’ The reasoning process begins with the
Buddha’s First Noble Truth, viz. “life is suffering,” i.e. that being
alive
is
inherently
unsatisfactory
insofar
as
frustration,
disappointment or unsatisfactoriness are inevitable and apparently

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
inescapable. The root cause of this suffering is the impermanent or
transitory nature of all things and mental states and, consequently,
our inability to ‘hang on’ to them or to find rest and peace. The
Buddha says,
Impermanent are all component things,
They arise and cease, that is their nature,
They come into being and pass away 2
When all things are in perpetual flux, rest, peace, satisfaction and
happiness are impossible because none of these conditions can be
more than momentary. We are constantly being tossed about by the
storms of change. This, of course, means that all things and mental
states have only a momentary existence. However, we need not be
‘tempest-tossed’ if we analyze our situation and discover the fact of
dependent origination according to which all things come into
existence in dependence on other things. Things always change
because everything is influenced by everything else, indeed, depends
on everything else for its temporary existence. Nothing is
ontologically independent or stands by itself. According to the
Buddha,
When there is this, that is.
With the arising of this, that arises.
When this is not, neither is that.
With the cessation of this, that ceases.3
In other words, everything arises or falls in dependence on previous
conditions or causes, and nothing arises without such conditions or
causes. Things do not exist in and of themselves but only in relation
to other things; consequently, their existence is relative and
provisional, not absolute. In Buddhist terms, they have no essence,
i.e. they have no substantial and no unchanging or ‘eternal’ nature.
Furthermore, they lack an independent self-nature or self which is to
say they are ‘empty.’ This does not mean that things do not exist but
that they do not exist as we tend to think they do: “emptiness defines
how things exist — relationally and impermanently — and is not,
therefore, the assertion that things somehow do not exist at all.”4

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Things have a provisional or conventional existence that we may
agree on for the sake of convenience but, if we analyze them, they
have no ultimately real nature. There is no enduring substance
‘behind’ or ‘within’ them; nothing is immune from change.
This leads to what is perhaps the most debated feature of Buddhist
thought: the concept of ‘no-self.’ If we analyze a human being — the
way Nagasena analyzed King Milinda’s chariot — we would find no
part that is the ‘self’ just as King Milinda found no part that is the
‘chariot.’5 Simple and straightforward as this sounds, there is no
agreement among the major Buddhist schools about what the ‘no-self’
teaching actually means. For example, the Tathagatagharba tradition
(which includes Zen and the Pure Land) asserts that the ‘no-self’
teaching refers to the ego and personality which has been deluded,
misled and defiled by the world and that beneath this ego lies a pure
Buddha-nature. ‘No-self’ simply means that disappearance of the
defilements and the appearance of the Buddha-nature. In the
Theravada, the Nikayas view the ‘no-self’ teaching not as a
metaphysical doctrine about what does or does not exist but rather as
a soteriological doctrines meant to gain release from enslavement to
the ego or sense of self. Its orientation is purely practical as
illustrated in the Buddha’s story about a man shot with an arrow. His
only interest is in having the arrow removed, not in the nature of the
arrow, the personality of the enemy archer or the reason he was shot.6
The Anatta teaching is not a doctrine of no-self, but a not-
self strategy for shedding suffering by letting go of its cause,
leading to the highest, undying happiness. At that point,
questions of self, no-self, and not-self fall aside. Once there's
the experience of such total freedom, where would there be
any concern about what's experiencing it, or whether or not
it's a self?7
On the other hand, the Madhyamika School in the Mahayana tradition
rigorously insists that from the ultimate perspective of dependent
origination no self exists at all insofar as a permanent and
autonomous ‘self’ or ego or personality have only has a conventional
or provisional existence. Even here, the exact meaning of the
Madhyamika claim is subject to debate. Moreover, as we shall see

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
below, still other versions of the ‘no-self’ teaching exist, notably the
Yogacara version.
Before we explore these ideas in greater detail, let us briefly
review what the Bahá’í Writings have to say about these issues.
Regarding the Buddha’s First Noble Truth that ‘life is suffering’ or
unsatisfactory we recall ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement about the San
Francisco earthquake: “Such events ought to awaken people and they
should attach themselves less to the mortal world; for the earthly
world hath such painful experiences and offers such cups from the
bitter wine” [TAB1 509]. In a similar vein, he says, “This mortal world
is fickle and unstable like unto a shifting shadow, and the human life
is like unto a mirage and a reflection on the water” [TAB1 202].
Elsewhere, he states, “man . . . in this world of being toileth and
suffereth for a time, with divers ills and pains, and ultimately
disintegrates, leaving no trace and no fruit after him” [TAF 13]. The
agreement with the First Noble Truth is obvious and requires no
further elaboration.
The Bahá’í Writings also agree with the doctrine of impermanence.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
nothing which exists remains in a state of repose — that is to
say, all things are in motion. Everything is either growing or
declining; all things are either coming from nonexistence into
being, or going from existence into nonexistence . . . This
state of motion is said to be essential — that is, natural; it
cannot be separated from beings because it is their essential
requirement, as it is the essential requirement of fire to burn.
Thus it is established that this movement is necessary to
existence, which is either growing or declining. [SAQ 233]8
It is important to notice the categorical nature of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statements: “nothing” is in repose, “all things are in motion” and
movement is “necessary to existence.” This universal language implies
that not just material things or beings are subject to constant change,
but also thoughts, feelings, personal identities and the whole gamut
of events in our psycho-spiritual existence. As Bahá’u’lláh says we

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
should regard all else beside God as transient, and count all
things save Him, Who is the Object of all adoration, as utter
nothingness. [GWB 266, emphasis added]
Here, too, the categorical language is essential: everything except
God is impermanent and all other beings are contingent. As ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says, “Transformation from condition to condition is the
attribute of contingent realities” [PUP 173]. Thus, it is clear that both
the Bahá’í Writings and Buddhism agree that impermanence is the
fundamental nature of all phenomenal existence. From this it
logically follows that we are self-condemned to suffering and
dissatisfaction if we allow ourselves to become too attached to the
things of this world and try to hold on to them. What else but
frustration and suffering can follow from trying to do the
impossible? Speaking in terms of the story of Adam and Eve in
Genesis, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
For attachment to the world has become the cause of the
bondage of spirits, and this bondage is identical with sin,
which has been transmitted from Adam to His posterity. It is
because of this attachment that men have been deprived of
essential spirituality and exalted position. [SAQ 124-125]
These attachments cause us, and others, a great deal of suffering
insofar as they force us to live in “bondage,” i.e. as a slave to the
things of this world. Moreover, these attachments degrade us from
our “exalted position” and deprive us of our “essential spirituality”
(cf. Buddha-nature). The only escape from this oppression is
detachment which the Writings and the Buddhist Scriptures praise as
the necessary condition for freedom: “Cast away that which ye
possess, and, on the wings of detachment, soar beyond all created
things” [GWB 139]. Elsewhere, Bahá’u’lláh says that His
sole purpose in revealing to thee these words is to sanctify
thee from the transitory things of the earth, and aid thee to
enter the realm of everlasting glory, that thou mayest, by the
leave of God, be of them that abide and rule therein.... [GWB
237]

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
For Buddhists, this “realm of everlasting glory” is nirvana which can
only be attained when the struggle against impermanence ends.
The doctrine of impermanence is the basis of the concept of
dependent origination or dependent arising. The importance of this
teaching is made clear by the Buddha’s statement that “Whoso
understands dependent origination, understands the Law [Dhamma or
Dharma], and who understands the Law understands dependent
origination.”9 The “Law” in this case is that everything arises as a
result of causes or conditions beyond itself and that everything
declines as a result of causes and conditions itself. As noted above,
the usual Buddhist formula for causality is
When there is this, that is.
With the arising of this, that arises.
When this is not, neither is that.
With the cessation of this, that ceases.10
It should be noted that the views on what constitutes causality differ
among various traditions such as the Theravada and the Madhyamika,
but there is no argument about dependent origination itself. Nothing
is fully independent or uncaused and/or unconditioned by anything
else; we exist as long as the appropriate causes and/or conditions are
present. Therefore, things do not exist in and of themselves which in
effect is to say that their being is relative and not absolute. In other
words, all things are inter-dependent. The following statement by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá conveys the same idea:
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to the
properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings. It is confirmed
through evidences and proofs that every being universally
acts upon other beings, either absolutely or through
association. Finally, the perfection of each individual being —
is due to the composition of the elements, to their measure,
to their balance, to the mode of their combination, and to
mutual influence. When all these are gathered together, then
man exists. [SAQ 178]

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Clearly, our existence is not independent; indeed, “man exists” only
when the right conditions are “gathered together” which is another
way of saying that we are contingent, dependent beings. Only God is
absolute, i.e. not dependent on conditions and, therefore, transcends
the processes of the phenomenal world. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement
emphasizes that all created beings are radically contingent, i.e. their
existence and their attributes depend not only ultimately on God but
also immediately on their interactions with the other elements of
creation. Here, too, there is basic agreement between the Writings
and the Buddha’s teachings.
Provisional existence — Buddhists often refer to it as
‘conventional’ existence — does not mean that things are unreal but
that they do not have absolute, eternal reality in-and-of themselves.
For that reason, they are called ‘empty’ and the fact of their absolute
contingency i.e. inter-dependence is described as ‘emptiness.’
However, there is something else to remember: the provisional or
conventional reality has self-sufficient existence or is ‘real’ from its
own standpoint but lacks self-sufficient existence and is ‘unreal’
from the standpoint of dependent origination itself. In other words,
the existence or reality things possess is relative and one of our tasks
to is see through this to the “ultimate truth”11 of their emptiness. We
shall say more about this subject below.
3. Emptiness in the Madhyamika School
With this background in mind, it is time to examine the concept
of emptiness in several Buddhist schools and in the Bahá’í Writings.
We shall start with the Madhyamika tradition because the
Madhyamika school represents the most radical interpretation of
‘emptiness.’ It says not only that things are empty but also that
emptiness itself is empty.12 From this position numerous radical
consequences follow.
The Madhyamika school of Mahayana Buddhism began in the 2nd
Century C.E. with the work of Nagarjuna, an Indian philosopher. His
principle work is the Mulamadhyamakakarika (Fundamental Verses of
the Middle Way; usually abbreviated as MMK) is a philosophical
explication of the Perfection of Wisdom sutras13 which appeared in
the 1st century BCE and include the famous Heart Sutra with its

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
eloquent emphasis on the emptiness of all things, thoughts and
conditions.14 In the MMK, Nagarjuna presents his philosophical/
logical explications of the Buddha’s doctrine of emptiness in a series
of four-line verses based on a four-value logic called tetralemmas. By
means of these tetralemmas, Nagarjuna and the Madhyamikas who
followed him attempted to show how any positive philosophical
statement about reality leads to contradictions and even absurd
conclusions.15 Our goal is to free ourselves from any kind of
conceptual thinking and, therefore, from all purely intellectual
viewpoints.16
Here is an example in which Nagarjuna discusses the relationship
between past, present and future.
If the present and the future
Depend on the past,
Then the present and future
Would have existed in the past.
If the present and future
Did not exist there,
How could the present and future
Depend upon it?17
The goal of these verses is to make us doubt our concepts of time by
showing how they lead to contradictions. In this example, he
demonstrates how the common belief that the present and the future
are based on the past leads to a problem: if that is so, the present and
future must somehow have existed in the past. But that is counter-
intuitive — obviously if they already existed in the past, they would
not be the present and the future. However, if they did not exist in
the past, how could they eventually depend on it? Where did they
come from? How are they related to the past? The purpose of the
exercise is to make us realize that our concepts or conventions do
not really apply to time at all. The puzzles exist only because we are
‘trapped’ within certain concepts or conventions for which all
philosophical statements about its nature are untenable. As
Nagarjuna writes in the dedicatory verses at the start of the MMK,

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Whatever is dependently arisen is
Unceasing, unborn,
Unannihilated, not permanent,
Not coming, not going,
Without distinction, without identity,
And free from conceptual construction.18
According to Nagarjuna, all descriptions or statements about
reality are imputations or constructions. They are our own
conceptions or constructions and do not provide any information
about reality. This is because whatever we say about any aspect of
reality consists of nothing but our imputations and attributions, and,
therefore, our statements are purely conventional: “the criteria for
identity we posit will end up being purely conventional.”19 For
example, we call an arrangement in which a flat surface is mounted
on four vertical sticks a ‘table’ — but that is simply a matter of our
agreement. What a table is — or a flower or river or clothes — are all
mere matters of convention, i.e. constructions. Of course, as
conventions, they are quite real; their mode of existing is as a
convention and the Madhyamika do not deny this. What they deny is
the idea that there is an unchanging essence, a ‘tableness’ that is not
subject to dependent origination and that lasts through the
destruction of the table itself. Similarly, they — and all Buddhists —
deny that there is a human essence or self apart from the combination
of components that compose us. Ultimately, all things are
conventions or human constructions, and, therefore, empty, i.e. have
no ultimate reality.
Is there anything in the Bahá’í Writings that converges with or
even accommodates the Madhyamika outlook? There are, indeed,
various passages in the Bahá’í Writings conveying a convergent
viewpoint. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes,
The second proposition is that existence and nonexistence are
both relative. If it be said that such a thing came into
existence from nonexistence, this does not refer to absolute
nonexistence, but means that its former condition in relation
to its actual condition was nothingness . . . Man, like the

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
mineral, is existing; but the existence of the mineral in
relation to that of man is nothingness, for when the body of
man is annihilated it becomes dust and mineral. . . . Though
the dust — that is to say, the mineral — has existence in its
own condition, in relation to man it is nothingness. Both
exist, but the existence of dust and mineral, in relation to
man, is nonexistence and nothingness . . .
Therefore, though the world of contingency exists, in
relation to the existence of God it is nonexistent and
nothingness. . . . In the same way, the existence of creation in
relation to the existence of God is nonexistence. [SAQ 280]
The theme of these statements is the relativity of existence — and it
converges with the Madhyamika position. This becomes clear once we
realize that the Madhyamika term ‘emptiness’ and the Bahá’í terms
‘nothingness’ and ‘contingent’ convey similar, if not identical
meanings. Let us recall that ‘emptiness’ refers to an object’s
dependence on the process of dependent origination; it has no
existence on its own and certainly no permanent existence. In Bahá’í
language, it is absolutely ‘contingent.’ From the ultimate viewpoint
of dependent origination, it does not exist inherently, intrinsically
from “its own side,”20 although from its own, conventional viewpoint
it does. In the same way, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that a thing “has
existence in its own condition,” that the “world of contingency
exists,” but in relationship to God’s existence, their existence is
“nonexistent and nothingness.” In short, they are ‘empty’ to use the
Buddhist term. ‘Emptiness,’ provisionality and conventionality are
their mode of existence whether in relation to God or dependent
origination. The Writings describe this situation as “nothingness.”
However,
it
is
a
relative
“nothingness”
not
the
absolute
“nothingness” which the Writings — and the Madhyamika —
categorically reject.21 It should also be noted that in addition to
relative nothingness or emptiness vis-à-vis God, the Writings support
the idea of ‘emptiness’ from the perspective of the processes of
phenomenal reality, i.e. the interactions and influences among the
cosmic elements. Everything that exists depends on those universal
cosmic process.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Other passages in the Writings point us out the ‘emptiness’ of the
phenomenal world. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this
nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A shadow hath
no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy, and nothing
more; it is but images reflected in water, and seeming as
pictures to the eye. [SWAB 178, emphasis added; cf. SWAB 177]
Words like “fantasy,” “shadow” and “pictures” clearly express the
idea of a world that is less than absolutely real. However, these words
are more than striking metaphors. Fantasies and pictures are things
we make or construct in some way, i.e. images in the human mind.
These are often rooted in our lower animal nature. How many of
these conventions or constructs are based on greed, selfishness,
hatred, lust, power-hunger etc.? Thus, if we take these images as
ultimately real, then we are deceived, either because of a lack of
thought, and/or our enslavement to imitations. Bahá’u’lláh says,
Verily I say, the world is like the vapor in a desert, which the
thirsty dreameth to be water and striveth after it with all his
might, until when he cometh unto it, he findeth it to be mere
illusion. [GWB 328, emphasis added]
In examining this image, we note that the phrase the “thirsty [man]
dreameth,” i.e. he imputes attributes to the vapors and thereby
creates for himself a ‘world.’ What makes the dream illusory is that
our concepts, beliefs and attitudes, i.e. our conventions create a
world-picture that we confuse with reality. In truth, however, this
world or, more accurately, this ‘world-picture’ is empty not only
because of dependent origination but because it is no more than a
human-made construct or set of conventions. In a similar vein,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “If we suffer it is the outcome of material things,
and all the trials and troubles come from this world of illusion.” [PT
110] It is we who make this world-picture on the basis of our own
imputations, and consequently suffer from it. Of course, the goal is
to attain freedom: “Release yourselves, O nightingales of God, from
the thorns and brambles of wretchedness and misery, and wing your
flight to the rosegarden of unfading splendor.” [GWB 319]

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
The foregoing discussion has shown how the Writings and
Madhyamika teachings are on a convergent path on the issue of
dependent origination and some of its consequences. However, this
only opens up a new issue: whether or not anything transcends or is
exempt from dependent origination. These issues are not clear in
Buddhism. As Jay Garfield says,
Exactly how this dependency [dependent origination] is
spelled out and exactly what its status is, is a matter of
considerable debate within Buddhist philosophy . . .
Nagarjuna was very much concerned to stake out a radical
and revealing position.22
For example, nirvana itself has been suggested as one such exception
to dependent origination. The Buddha describes nirvana in the
following words:
There is, monks, an unborn, a not-become, a not-made, a
not-compounded. If, monks, there were not this unborn, not-
become, not-made, not-compounded, there would not here
be an escape from the born, the become, the made, the
compounded. But because there is an unborn, a not-become,
the compounded.23
Clearly, in this passage, nirvana — whether it be a condition or an
ontological entity — is not subject to dependent origination and in
that sense is an absolute. The Tathagatagarbha schools accept that the
Tathagatagarbha itself transcends dependent origination and is
eternal i.e. unchanging and also possesses positive and essential
attributes purity, bliss (satisfactoriness) and even self.24 The Yogacara
philosophers, for example, pointed out that Nagarjuna had forgotten
to take into account the consciousness to which his arguments
appeared; no matter what turn his arguments took, no matter what
one believed about dependent origination, consciousness of them
remained. Thus, the Yogacara accept dependent origination but
develop into a different direction in which mind transcends
dependent origination. Consciousness endures; it is.
These different views are significant because from the perspective
of the Writings, the minimal ontological requirement for God is

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
absolute or “pure independence”25 which obviously transcends
dependent origination. Thus, from the perspective of the Writings,
any Buddhist philosophy which accepts the idea that something
transcends
dependent
origination,
and,
therefore,
transcends
conventionality and emptiness has met the minimal ontological
requirement for some version of theism. As we shall see in more
detail later, the Writings converge more clearly in this respect with
the Tathagatagarbha and Yogacara traditions about emptiness than
they do with Nagarjuna’s MMK and its Madhyamika successors. If we
accept Nagarjuna’s claims on this issue at face value, there is a clear
divergence with the Writings on this issue.
The radical nature of Nagarjuna’s theory of emptiness is evident
insofar as he holds that even emptiness itself is empty.26 Indeed,
Huntington suggests that “the Madhyamika be read as a radical
attempt at abandoning the obsession with a metaphysical absolute.”27
Although this view is highly influential, this is not a universal view
for as already noted above, various Buddhist traditions disagree with
this understanding of emptiness. However, if even emptiness is
empty, i.e. is subject to dependent origination and is a mere
convention, then it also follows that dependent origination itself is
empty, subject to dependent origination and a convention.
Obviously, there is no room for metaphysical absolutes in this
version of the Madhyamika; moreover, no philosophical statements
can lead to knowledge of the truth of emptiness. As Huntington
points out, “The truth of emptiness must be realized in direct
awareness of the paradox and mystery of mundane experience.”28 It
cannot be put into philosophic statements without causing serious
difficulties.
This view accords somewhat with the Bahá’í teachings about the
unknowability of God but not with the Bahá’í teachings about our
knowledge of reality. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, proof that an
absolute, God, exists can be known29 but the nature of God “is
beyond our comprehension; for the essential names and attributes of
God are identical with His Essence, and His Essence is above all
comprehension” [SAQ 148]. Whatever we say — in distinction to what
the Manifestations say — about God is strictly conventional, a
product of our time, place and culture, i.e. our knowledge of Him is
conventional, and subject to dependent origination. Verbal

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
descriptions and philosophic statements cannot do more than provide
conventional and/or intellectual understanding of God’s nature.
Indeed, this view is an integral part of progressive revelation in which
the human knowledge of God from one dispensation is renewed and
expanded in another.
However, in contrast to Nagarjuna and Madhyamika successors,
the Bahá’í Writings do not teach that all statements about reality are
doomed to self-contradiction or absurdity. Genuine knowledge about
reality is certainly possible and, thereby, progress in knowledge and
understanding. Otherwise, why would we need progressive revelation
if humankind did not make progress, leaving behind untenable views
and ultimately requiring a new revelation? Progress, of course, is one
of the reasons the Writings put so much emphasis on science since
without science genuine progress is impossible. Scientific progress is
not only convention.
4. Emptiness, Essence and Self
One of the key features of the Madhyamika understanding of
dependent origination is the concept of no essence. Because
everything is constantly coming into and passing out of existence,
there is no such thing as an essence, i.e. a stable and substantial
aspect that remains the same throughout all the changes and which
can be identified as such by us. Garfield says that for Nagarjuna
everything is
empty of inherent existence or self-nature, or, in more
Western terms essence. . . that [the table’s] existence as the
object that it is — as a table — depends not on it, nor on purely
nonrelational characteristics but depends on us as well.30
If a table — as table — has no inherent, i.e. independent existence
apart from the components that compose it, then neither does
anything have a self, including human beings. ‘Self’ is simply what
happens when the right components interact in the right way. When
the required inter-action ends, so does the ‘self.’ As Donald Lopez Jr.
says, “The Madhyamika claim is that nothing is ultimately findable
under analysis. Everything is empty, even emptiness.”31 There is no

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
mysterious ‘self’ to be found within us. Neither things no people have
essences; “Buddhism leaves no room for an essentialist conception.”32
Only some Bahá’í teachings converge with Madhyamika Buddhism
on these issues. As we have already seen, Bahá’í views about the
phenomenal world converge with Madhyamika beliefs about
dependent origination. Both accept that the phenomenal world is in
perpetual flux, that “all else beside God as transient” [GWB 266], that
things come into existence and exist by virtue of universal influence,
and that the appearance of any being requires the correct
combination of inter-actions.
Finally, the perfection of each individual being — is due to
the composition of the elements, to their measure, to their
balance, to the mode of their combination, and to mutual
influence. When all these are gathered together, then man
exists. [SAQ 178]
Consequently, the Bahá’í Writings can accept that all things in the
phenomenal are “empty” insofar as their dependence on other things
as well as God is concerned. Moreover, the emptiness forms the
foundation for an ethical outlook based on detachment from the
phenomenal world which because of its endless changing nature,
inevitably disappoints.
The question arises as to how far the concept of emptiness goes in
the Bahá’í teachings. Does it, for example, apply to the concept of
‘self’? The answer to this question is that in one aspect it does, and in
another it does not. This is because there are two concepts of self or
ego at work in the Bahá’í Writings. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature
and his material or lower nature. In one he approaches God,
in the other he lives for the world alone. Signs of both these
natures are to be found in men. In his material aspect he
expresses untruth, cruelty and injustice; all these are the
outcome of his lower nature. [PT 60]
The ‘lower ego’ or ‘self’ is based on our animal nature, i.e. it is purely
physical; it is a product of evolution with all the necessary instincts,
drives and psychological tendencies. Moreover, to some extent it is a

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
product of our time, place and historical circumstances because it is
also through these we may be attached to the phenomenal world.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, “This lower nature in man is symbolized as Satan
— the evil ego within us, not an evil personality outside” [PUP 287].
However, in addition, we have a “spiritual or higher nature” [PT 60]
of which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “A man may converse with the ego within
him saying: “May I do this? Would it be advisable for me to do this
work?” Such as this is conversation with the higher self’” [PT 179].
From this distinction it follows that that “[o]ur greatest efforts must
be directed towards detachment from the things of the world; we
must strive to become more spiritual, more luminous” [PUP 60]. In
other words, we must overcome the lower ego and eliminate its
domination in our lives.
The Bahá’í emphasis on overcoming our lower animal nature and
our attachments to the phenomenal world converges with the
Buddhist teachings about the unreality of the ‘ego’ or ‘self.’ On the
basis of the Bahá’í descriptions of our lower nature, self, or ego, we
may conclude that it is ultimately not real, a product of the inter-
active processes of the phenomenal world at both the material and
socio-historical level, i.e. a product of what Buddhists call dependent
origination. As Bahá’ís, we are to detach ourselves from this lower
nature and the world, to let it go, to recognize it for the ephemerality
it is. Bahá’u’lláh says, His
sole purpose in revealing to thee these words is to sanctify
thee from the transitory things of the earth, and aid thee to
enter the realm of everlasting glory, that thou mayest, by the
leave of God, be of them that abide and rule therein.... [GWB
237]
This leads to the conclusion that there is no obstacle to accepting the
Buddhist doctrine of ‘noself’ insofar as the lower self and its
attachments to the phenomenal are concerned; these are not
ultimately real and must be overcome, left behind or outgrown.
5. Emptiness and the Tathagatagarbha Tradition
The difficult debate begins when we ask what, if anything, remains
once we achieve complete detachment from our lower nature or

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
lower self. The Madhyamika, of course, deny that anything remains:
there simply is no self at all. It is an empty convention without more
than temporary existence in the process of dependent origination.
Such is not the view of the widespread Tathagatagarbha tradition
which accepts the concept of an eternal and changeless ‘Buddha-
Nature’ in all beings. Because the Buddha-Nature is eternal and
changeless, it is not subject to dependent origination and, therefore,
is not empty in the Madhyamika sense of the term. According to the
Tathagatagarbha tradition, the Madhyamika have only taken account
of part of the Buddha’s revelations about the ‘self.’ More precisely,
the Madhyamika schools represent only the second turning of the
Buddha’s wheel of revelation for which reason their understanding is
incomplete, whereas the Tathagatagarbha tradition is the third and
final turning of the wheel of revelation. In this final turning,
‘emptiness’ and related concepts receive their final form.
The Tathagatagarbha or Buddha-Nature lies hidden in all sentient
beings. According to The Tathatagatagarbha Sutra
The Buddha sees that all kinds of beings Universally possess
the tathagatagarbha. It is covered by countless klesas,
[defilements] Just like a tangle of smelly, wilted petals. So I,
on behalf of all beings,
Everywhere expound the true Dharma, In order to help them
remove their klesas And quickly reach the Buddha way.
I see with my Buddha eye
That in the bodies of all beings
There lies concealed the buddhagarbha.33
According to the Tathagatagarbha Sutra, “the tathagatagarbhas of all
beings are eternal and unchanging”57 which, as noted before, means
they are unconditioned and exempt from dependent origination and,
therefore, are not empty in the Madhyamika sense. In The Srimala
Devi Sutra, one of the central Tathagatagarbha sutras, we read:
But, Lord, the Tathagatagarbha is not born, does not die,
does not pass away to become reborn. The Tathagatagarbha
excludes the realm with the characteristic of the constructed.

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
The Tathagatagarbha is permanent, steadfast, eternal.
Therefore the Tathagatagarbha is the support, the holder, the
base of constructed.34
Of special significance here is the distinction between the eternal
realm of the Tathagatagarbha and “the realm with the characteristic
of the constructed” which refers to what the Madhyamika call the
conventional world which we ‘construct’ by identifying things and
giving them discrete names. This is the realm of phenomenal change.
Such
passages
emphasize
that
unlike
the
Madhyamika,
Tathagatagarbha
Buddhism
recognizes
the
real,
independent
existence, of something eternal, i.e. something that is an exception to
the process of dependent origination, and, consequently, something
not empty.
Lord, the Tathagatagarbha has ultimate existence without
beginning or end, has an unborn and undying nature, and
experiences
suffering;
hence
it
is
worthy
of
the
Tathagatagarbha to have aversion towards suffering as well as
longing, eagerness, and aspiration towards Nirvana.35
The last statement already suggests that it is the Tathagatagarbha
within us that seeks to escape the suffering of the phenomenal world
of dependent origination and aspires towards the Nirvana. This is the
noble desire that dwells deep within all of us. In the Srimala Devi
Sutra, the Buddha says,
‘Good sons, do not consider yourselves inferior or base. You
all personally possess the Buddha nature.’ If you exert
yourselves and destroy your past evils, then you will receive
the title of bodhisattvas or world-honored ones, and convert
and save countless sentient beings.36
In passing, let us note that this statement has its counterpart in the
Bahá’í Writings in which Bahá’u’lláh says, “O SON OF SPIRIT! Noble
have I created thee, yet thou hast abased thyself. Rise then unto that
for which thou wast created” [HW Ar. #22]. Being a bodhisattva or
“world-honored one” is a noble and honored status and so, the
Buddha’s and Bahá’u’lláh’s statements may be understood to express
the same spirit and meaning. Moreover, if we possess the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Tathagatagarbha, then obviously, contrary to Madhyamika doctrine,
there is something enduring within us not subject to dependent
origination. This is the true self.
'Self' means 'tathagatagarbha.' Every being has the Buddha
Nature. This is self. Such a self is, since the very beginning,
under cover of innumerable illusions [defilements] . . . I now
let persons see the Buddha Nature that they possess, which is
overspread by illusion [defilements] . . . 37
As evident here, the Tathagatagarbha tradition differs significantly
from the Madhyamika, regarding the existence of an absolute, eternal
exception to dependent origination and regarding the existence of a
‘self.’ Self is not necessarily empty as taught by the Madhyamika since
this transcendent self is exempt from dependent origination. The self
that is, indeed, empty, is the ‘ego’ or personality that is shaped by the
processes of dependent origination but this must not be confused
with — as the Madhyamika have done — with the Buddha-Nature
within us. According to the Buddha, we do not seem to have a self
because the Buddha-Nature or Tathagatagarbha is always covered
with defilements so that we do not know what our real self is, and,
therefore, do not possess it.38 In other words, according to the
Tathagatagarbha tradition, the Madhyamika possessed an earlier
understanding of the Buddha’s teachings. The Madhyamika teachings
are not wrong but incomplete. Their doctrine that self is empty, is
not the full teaching of the Buddha and must be re-thought in light of
the revelations of the various Tathagatagarbha sutras.
There is a remarkable agreement between the Tathagatagarbha
tradition and the Bahá’í Writings on the subject of a transcendent
aspect within all individual beings. Bahá’u’lláh writes, “No thing have
I perceived, except that I perceived God within it, God before it, or
God after it” [GWB 178]. Both agree that all things are characterized
by something that is not subject to dependent origination and,
therefore, is not empty in the Madhyamika sense, i.e. is not
conventional, and by contrast, has positive inherent qualities and
existence. Our human task is to uncover and actualize that aspect
within ourselves in order to overcome the conventional and worldly
ego. As we shall see, in the Bahá’í system and the Tathagatagarbha
tradition, emptiness means cleansing ourselves of defilements.

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
In general terms, we may say that the Buddha-Nature within us
corresponds, in Bahá’í terms, to our spiritual nature.
This spiritual nature, which came into existence through the
bounty of the Divine Reality, is the union of all perfections
and appears through the breath of the Holy Spirit. It is the
divine perfections; it is light, spirituality, guidance,
exaltation, high aspiration, justice, love, grace, kindness to
all, philanthropy, the essence of life. It is the reflection of the
splendor of the Sun of Reality. [SAQ 118, emphasis added]
Our spiritual nature is a reflective presence of the divine in us, and,
as expected, includes positive attributes that are “divine perfections,’
i.e. they are not mere conventions as required by Madhyamika
thinking. These are real virtues latent within us and they are the ‘real’
self inasmuch as it is more God-like and because it represents
enduring values and attributes for which we are to strive. Our task is
to follow the spiritual discipline laid down by Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in order to overcome and transform the qualities of our
lower nature and its ego and, thereby, to submerge or lose them in
our higher spiritual nature. That way our lower qualities will no
longer conceal and defile the spiritual nature within us. That way our
spiritual nature will become visible in our lives. As we shall see in
more detail below, this corresponds to the Tathagatagarbha concept
of emptiness which requires making our higher nature — or Buddha-
Nature — “empty of what is changing, afflicted and worldly”39 to
reveal the beauties of the Buddha-Nature.
The concept of the presence of the omnipresent Buddha-Nature is
also evident in the teaching that the “names of God” are necessarily
inherent in all things:
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth is a
direct evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes
and names of God, inasmuch as within every atom are
enshrined the signs that bear eloquent testimony to the
revelation of that Most Great Light. Methinks, but for the
potency of that revelation, no being could ever exist. How
resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in an
atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
drop! . . . For in him [man] are potentially revealed all the
attributes and names of God to a degree that no other created
being hath excelled or surpassed. [GWB 177]
The names or attributes of God are eternal and, therefore, uncreated
and not in any way susceptible to dependent origination because God
Himself is ‘eternal’ and absolutely independent from anything except
Himself. Just as the Buddha-Nature within all sentient beings is
eternal and not empty, so the names of God in all things are not
empty.
There is yet another way in which the Tathagatagarbha doctrine
converges with the Bahá’í Writings. The Writings state,
Souls are like unto mirrors, and the bounty of God is like
unto the sun. When the mirrors pass beyond (the condition
of) all coloring and attain purity and polish, and are
confronted with the sun, they will reflect in full perfection
its light and glory. In this condition one should not consider
the mirror, but the power of the light of the sun, which hath
penetrated the mirror, making it a reflector of the heavenly
glory. [TAB1 19]
Here, too, we observe how the presence of the divine or Absolute
appears in the soul, which in its purest state, is free of “coloring” or
extraneous elements or defilements and simply reflects the perfection
of the sun. The purity of the soul is, in fact, its original state: “Know
thou that every soul is fashioned after the nature of God, each being
pure and holy at his birth” [SWAB 190]. This original “pure and holy
soul [that] is the tathagatagarbha or Buddha-Nature that exists in all
things. It is continues when the soul is cleansed of defilements and
when our ego and our lower nature are overcome. For this reason,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us,
The most important thing is to polish the mirrors of hearts in
order that they may become illumined and receptive of the
divine light. One heart may possess the capacity of the
polished mirror; another be covered and obscured by the dust
and dross of this world. [defilements] Although the same Sun
is shining upon both, in the mirror which is polished, pure

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
and sanctified you may behold the Sun in all its fullness, glory
and power revealing its majesty and effulgence, but in the
mirror which is rusted and obscured there is no capacity for
reflection. [PUP 14, emphasis added]
The deficient, defiled mirror, of course, is the one still facing or
attached to the world instead of to the light of the sun, or, to view it
from a Buddhist perspective, the ego is still visible and thus the
divine, the Tathagatagarbha is obscured — not itself actually marred
— by various defilements. In this view, emptiness is not so much
something we understand intellectually as something we achieve by
cleansing the “dross’ from the mirror of the soul.
It is evident that the definition of ‘emptiness’ used in the
Tathagatagarbha tradition is dramatically different from that used by
the Madhyamikas who maintain nothing whatsoever has inherent
existence: emptiness, the Buddha,40 the teachings and the distinction
between samsara, and nirvana are empty as are all intellectual and
conceptualized understandings of them. According to Paul Williams,
there is an
opposition between the Madhyamaka view of emptiness as an
absence
of
inherent
existence
in
the
object
under
investigation
and
the
tathagatagarbha
perspective
on
emptiness . . . which sees emptiness as the radiant, pure mind
empty of its conceptual accretions.72
The “pure mind,” the Tathagatagarbha itself is found to be empty of
all intellectual imputations, i.e. empty of all convention. It is “empty
of all defilements, including the defilements of conceptuality.”41 As
Tony Page writes,
So-called “Emptiness”, which is an absolutely key concept of
Mahayana Buddhism, reveals itself here to be only empty of
what is changing, afflicted and worldly — not of the
changeless and positive attributes of total Bliss, Joy,
Imperturbability and Eternity. The “Emptiness” of nirvanic
Liberation is something that was never constructed or put
together and so can never die. And it is integrally linked to a
knowing being — the Buddha himself .42

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
By removing these various defilements, we find our Buddha-Nature,
our Tathagatagarbha, which is “never constructed,” i.e. is not a
conventional imputation and which is connected to the Buddha.
Emptiness is precisely this condition of lacking the defilements and
imputations that cover the true Buddha-Nature within. Just as
noteworthy is the fact that the Buddha-Nature has eternal, i.e.
changeless positive attributes such as bliss and joy which are not mere
conventions we have imputed to it. (In this sense, of course, the
Tathagatagarbha tradition converges with Platonism and its eternal
Ideas.)
The Bahá’í Writings present the same idea. When the mirror of the
soul (or heart) is cleansed of all defilements, the radiance of the Sun
becomes visible in its splendor and all our awareness of the lower ego
is lost, at least for a time as we reflect “the full glory of the Sun of
Truth” [PT 95]. This reflection is not, of course, an ontological unity
between the mirror and the Sun, but rather an analogical unity in
which the sun in the mirror is the analogue of the divine Sun, i.e.
both different and similar. To be cleansed of defilements, we must
seek to become detached “from all else save God” [SWAB 86] and to
practice self-sacrifice and the “evanescence” [TAB2 460] and to “to
reflect the love of the Highest on all men” [PT 87]. In doing so, we
find what remains in our souls and hearts is our attachment to or love
for God which is precisely what makes us spiritually noble beings. It
is also that aspect of us which is more real than the ego or self. We
might call this ‘the practice of emptiness.’
It is evident that in the Tathagatagarbha tradition and the Bahá’í
Writings agree that ‘emptiness’ is the lack of defilements. The
Buddha-Nature is empty not in itself — for it has inherent existence
and positive qualities — but because it is clean of all emotional,
intellectual and behavioral imperfections. Thus, emptiness does not
mean a lack of inherent existence as it does in the Madhyamika
schools but rather it means a lack of defilement. “In this sense the
Buddha essence is indeed empty — it is empty of adventitious
defilements which simply do not exist at all from the point of view of
its own innate purity.”43 In Tibet, the Jo nang pa school knows this as
the “other-empty” view in contrast to Ge lug pas who espouse the
“self-empty” view of the Madhyamikas.44 (The Dalai Lama is a Ge lug
pa.)

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
In the Bahá’í context, the Manifestation in “the condition of
divine appearance and heavenly splendor” [SAQ 151] may also be
described as ‘empty’ in the Tathagatagarbha sense:
The third station is that of the divine appearance and
heavenly splendor: it is the Word of God, the Eternal Bounty,
the Holy Spirit. It has neither beginning nor end, for these
things are related to the world of contingencies and not to
the divine world. For God the end is the same thing as the
beginning. [SAQ 151]
If the Manifestation in the third station is free of time because time
is related to the contingent world, then, by implication, He is also
free of the other defilements associated with the contingent world.
Consequently, in the Tathagatagarbha sense, the Manifestation may
be described as ‘empty.’ The same is true of God Who is also empty
in the Tathagatagarbha sense of the term.
However, we should not conflate the Bahá’í doctrine of the
unknowability of God with any form of Buddhist emptiness teaching.
The Bahá’í doctrine of the unknowability of God is a teaching about
human capacity, or incapacity, in light of the ontological difference
between God and humankind. In contrast, Buddhist emptiness
teaching concerns either the Buddha-Nature’s lack of defilement or
the mere conventionality of any such supposed entity. From a Bahá’í
viewpoint, saying that God lacks defilements is superfluous, and
saying that the existence of God is a mere convention is contrary to
the Writings since God does not depend on us.
We now arrive at the thorny issue of the ‘self’ in the
Tathagatagarbha tradition and the Bahá’í Writings. In the
Madhyamika tradition, the concept of ‘self’ is empty, i.e. a
convention imputed by us on the process of dependent origination.
However, in the Tathagatagarbha tradition, matters are not so
straight-forward. On one hand, the Tathagatagarbha tradition makes
it clear that the Buddha-Nature within us should not be understood as
a personality, ego or self. 45 Yet, despite repeated emphasis on this
point, it has often been said the Tathagatagarbha schools have —
perhaps inadvertently — re-introduced the concept of self into
Buddhism. Donald Lopez Jr. states that “another controversy [about
the Tathagatagarbha doctrine] derives from the fact that the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
tathagatagarbha is often described in such a way that it sounds like a
self.”46 It is not difficult to see why as shown by the following
quotation from the Buddha:
O Kasyapa!
Know well of the three refuges. The nature
Of the three refuges is that of self. If one knows
Clearly that the nature of self has the Buddha Nature,
Such a one well enters the undisclosed house.47
Inevitably, such statements raise questions. How can “the nature of
the self” have the Buddha-Nature without that “nature of the self”
also having something essential or ‘eternal’ about it, something
exempt from dependent origination, and, therefore, not empty? This
suggestion seems reinforced by statements like “The nature of self is
none but the undisclosed storehouse of the Tathagata.”48 Since the
Tathagata (The Buddha) is exempt from dependent origination, the
same appears to be true of the self.
Moreover, from a strictly philosophical point of view, one might
also reason as follows. If the Buddha-Nature is present in all sentient
beings, then it is present individually in all beings. In other words,
every being is a particularized appearance of the Buddha-Nature and
insofar as it is particular, it is difficult to avoid suggestions of
individuality or self. Bare particularity is the minimal logical
requirement for the existence of a self and each sentient being seems
to meet that minimal requirement. The Buddha-Nature that appears in
all things may be the same, but this ‘sameness’ makes individual
appearances in all particular things. While this particularity is not a
‘self’ in the sense of a fully-developed ego or personality, it is, at
least, something possessing the minimum logical foundation for
individuality. This seems to be recognized by David Kalupahana who
says the Tathagatagarbha view (among others) brings us “dangerously
close to the theory of self . . . advocated by the heretics.”49 Rupert
Gethin writes that the issue is difficult to resolve because “its [the
self’s] metaphysical and ontological status is, however, open to
interpretation in terms of the different Mahayana philosophical
schools.88

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
While we are unable to resolve these tensions and ambiguities
among
Buddhist
traditions,
we
are
able
to
conclude
the
Tathagatagarbha tradition and the Bahá’í Writings seem to converge
in regards to the subject of self. There is something transcendent in
us — be it called the Buddha Nature or spiritual nature or names of
God — that must be revealed by us. The definition of the self as the
Tathagatagarbha also means that a different view of emptiness is at
work — emptiness as the removal of defilements of the Buddha-
Nature. In the Jo nang pa this is called being ‘other empty.’ The
Bahá’í Writings do not share this language but they do share a similar
view of emptiness.
6. Emptiness in the Yogacara Tradition
The Yogacara tradition is generally regarded as being a form of
philosophic idealism in which there is
an ultimate reality, real beyond anything which can be
asserted of what comes within the range of [human]
experience. This is thought (citta) or mind, not mind as
existing in the variety in which it is experienced, but without
any differentiation, and called store-consciousness (alaya-
vijnana).50
Self and all apparently external objects are empty insofar as they have
no inherent or independent existence and no enduring essence.
Moreover, all objects — whether they appear to exist outside us or
whether they are thoughts, feelings and perceptions, are, in
Vasubandhu’s phrase “ideation only.”51 Even in regards to apparently
external objects, all we can know are our own experiences and
nothing more. If we kick a rock, as Dr. Johnson famously did to
refute the idealist Bishop Berkeley, we still only have our sensory
impression — an ‘idea’ — of the rock we just kicked. We experience
‘hardness’ or ‘resistance’ but those are still our experiences. This
applies to the self as well. If we examine our inward life, all we find is
a stream of changing perceptions and impressions, but we do not find
a ‘self’ in that stream. The seemingly external world arises because
“[d]ue to our beginningless ignorance we construct these perceptions
into enduring subjects and objects.”52 In other words, as in the
Madhyamika philosophy, all objects of perception and thought exist

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
‘conventionally’ and have no inherent existence or essence. In that
sense they are ‘empty.’ However, the Yogacara position goes beyond
the Madhyamika view which only tells us what things are ultimately
not and says nothing about what they are and which does not explain
how things come to appear in the way they do.53 From this
perspective, Madhyamika views are negative whereas the Yogacara
tradition is positive insofar as it provides a positive explanation for
the nature of existence and human perception.
While the Yogacarins agree that things that appear to us as the
world or self are conventional and empty, it also asserts that
consciousness itself is the real substratum that underlies all
appearances. It alone has inherent existence and essence. Hence the
Yogacara tradition is sometimes called the “mind-only” school, since
consciousness or mind — though not the individual mind — is
recognized as being ultimately real. “Highest knowledge yields the
realization that reality is pure and undiscriminated consciousness.” 54
The apparently separate existence of all other things — including the
‘self’ — is explained as the result of the “store-consciousness.” The
store-house consciousness
is the particular repository of all the seeds sown by the
defilements of a being’s active consciousness’ it is the result
of the being’s past karma . . . as such the store consciousness
is also the condition for the perpetuation of these
defilements in present and future active consciousness.94
The ultimate reality or universal consciousness contains the “seeds”
or potential future consequences or dispositions of all past actions
and defilements by all entities. These seeds are a metaphor for karma.
As the seeds ‘mature,’ or the potentials actualize through dependent
origination, certain consequences arise and these lead to the
appearance of self and world, subject and object, perceiver and
perceived, experiencer and experienced. In the words of the Dalai
Lama, the Yogacarins “argue that the perception of the external
world arises as the result of the imprints [seeds] that exist within the
consciousness.”55 However, the ultimate truth is that none of these
dualities are true — they are empty — and that all things are one in the
universal consciousness. Even to say they are ‘one’ may already go

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
too far inasmuch as this universal consciousness exists beyond all
human categorizations.
For Yogacarins, emptiness refers to lack of any distinction
between subject and object, between perceiver and perceived, and
between the ‘experiencer’ and the experience. They are all one and
same — ‘parts’ of the universal consciousness on which we impose
arbitrary constructions as a result of karmic seeds. None of these
‘objects’ have inherent existence or essence. This is exactly the
emptiness revealed by enlightenment. Emptiness, therefore, may be
characterized as the recognition that no ontological differences are
real and that ontologically speaking, we are all one.
The relationship between the Bahá’í Writings and the Yogacara
concept of emptiness has two aspects, one ontological and the other
spiritual or moral. From a strictly ontological point of view, it is
possible to argue that the Bahá’í Writings and Yogacara doctrine
converge insofar as they both see all created things as ontologically
equal. Unlike the universal consciousness which has the ontological
marks of traditional concepts of divinity, i.e. absolute independence,
eternity and exemption from change, every self, every subject and
object is absolutely dependent — and thus, as the Writings indicate —
relatively unreal or ‘conventional.’ Things also lack inherent existence
and are inextricably subject to change. In a word, they are empty. In
this sense a chair, a human being and a mountain are ontologically
identical. From the ultimate ontological perspective of the universal
consciousness, the differences we perceive are conventional ‘addons’
to our common ontological nature, and, therefore, not ultimate.
Recognizing our ontological emptiness vis-à-vis the universal
consciousness or God is the necessary first step to attaining freedom
from the conventional delusions that imprison us.
The Bahá’í Writings agree with much of this analysis. For
example, recognizing that much of what we purport to know is
conventional in nature, i.e. human constructions based on time,
place, circumstance and level of cultural development is a key
element in the Bahá’í teachings. In Yogacara terminology, these
individually or culturally determined constructs are empty, i.e. they
are the delusions caused by individual and cultural factors or ‘seeds’
that we impose on them. (From the ultimate perspective of universal
consciousness, we cannot even say we ‘impose’ these attributes, since

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
the subject/object division is not real.) Our task is to overcome our
enslavement to these imitative delusions to attain true freedom,
hence the Bahá’í emphasis on the independent investigation of truth.
Happy are those who spend their days in gaining knowledge,
in discovering the secrets of nature, and in penetrating the
subtleties of pure truth! Woe to those who are contented
with ignorance, whose hearts are gladdened by thoughtless
imitation, who have fallen into the lowest depths of
ignorance and foolishness, and who have wasted their lives!
[SAQ 137]
Because the Bahá’í Writings mainly applies the task of recognizing
and overcoming conventions in knowledge to religion and social
issues, we should not be blinded to the fact that it applies equally to
all other kinds of knowledge — including self-knowledge. Many of
our difficulties originate in our responses not to things as they are
but to our conventional or imitational understanding of them. The
only way to overcome this problem is to free ourselves from
entanglement in our conventions and to recognize the emptiness of
things. Here, too, the Bahá’í Writings and Yogacara philosophy
converge.
Of course, there remains the question of whether or not the
subject/object dichotomy can also be overcome at least from an
ontological perspective. As we recall, in the Yogacara view all
differences between subject/object and indeed, between all things are
known to be empty vis-à-vis the “pure and undiscriminated
consciousness.” 56 From the ultimate perspective, the differences
between them are empty. Is there any convergence with Bahá’í
teachings on this matter? Perhaps. One could argue that all created
things are simply appearances of the creative power of God’s Will. As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Throughout the universe the divine power is
effulgent in endless images and pictures” [PUP 14]. Given this point of
view, it seems to follow that all things and all distinctions between
things are not ultimate insofar as they are dependent on the “divine
power.” To this extent, at least, the Bahá’í Writings converge with
the Yogacara view. However, while the Bahá’í Writings suggest that
at least some distinctions and attributes are imposed on things, and,
thereby, empty, they do not believe that all distinctions are necessary

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
empty. For example, the rational soul distinguishes humans from
animals in a definitive, nonempty way [SAQ 208]. Only at the most
fundamental ontological level is this distinction vitiated.
The Bahá’í Writings diverge from Yogacara teaching regarding the
ontological difference between created things and God — or the
universal consciousness.57 This distinction is not empty, not
conventional and not bridgeable. In the Yogacara teaching, when the
self recognizes the emptiness of all distinctions between itself and the
universal consciousness, it becomes indistinguishable from the
universal consciousness, i.e. it overcomes the dualism of subject and
object, and discovers emptiness. This discovery is “nonconceptual
knowledge”58 empty of both the experiencing subject and its object
which are no longer distinguished. Thereby, a human “becomes one
with the Ultimate Reality.”59 This view may be interpreted
ontologically or epistemologically.60
If we adopt an ontological interpretation of this Yogacara
teaching, there is an outright conflict with the Bahá’í Writings. The
Writings are most emphatic that we, as contingent beings, are not
God and can never hope to be, ontologically ‘one with Him’ i.e. can
never “join partners with God” [ESW 101]. Mystics may feel as if they
have achieved such unity, but in reality they have not and claims to
the contrary are mistaken interpretations of their experience. There is
an unbridgeable difference between absolute independence and
absolute dependence that the latter can never cross. The difference
between God and humankind is not empty. In a similar vein, the
Writings are clear that except for our basic ontological attributes
such as dependence and mutability, some differences between kinds
of beings are not empty or conventional, and, therefore, real.
If we adopt an epistemological interpretation of the Yogacara
position, there are fewer complexities vis-à-vis the Bahá’í Writings.
For example, we may under certain circumstances feel ourselves so
much in harmony with the divine will, that all sense of being a self
with a separate will is extinguished. The distinction between our will
and God’s will has been vitiated and is, therefore, empty. This
condition is traditionally described by Christians as ‘kenosis.’
However, this ‘self-emptying’ is a psycho-spiritual condition and is
not an ontological state. We are who we are and God is Who He is.61

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
The Bahá’í and Yogacara teachings also converge when we apply
them to morals. Morally speaking, one of our tasks is precisely to
recognize the emptiness of any imputed differences between
ourselves and others. Indeed, we must realize that these differences
insofar as they separate us and generate animosity, are empty, i.e. are,
to use Yogacara terminology, the products of the seeds of our own
‘karma’ or personal history and, therefore, not real in comparison
with our common spiritual nature.
For now have the rays of reality from the Sun of the world of
existence, united in adoration all the worshippers of this
light; and these rays have, through infinite grace, gathered all
peoples together within this wide-spreading shelter; therefore
must all souls become as one soul, and all hearts as one heart.
Let all be set free from the multiple identities that were born
of passion and desire, and in the oneness of their love for
God find a new way of life. [SWAB 76]
The identities “born of passion and desire” may well be those
identities which, in the Yogacara metaphor, ‘sprout’ from the karmic
seeds. In the Yogacara view, these seeds originate in past lives,
whereas in the Bahá’í view they may be the consequences of earlier
good and bad actions. In either case, we are to recognize that the
differences between ourselves and others, are empty, i.e. non-
essential vis-à-vis our common spiritual nature and goals. What is
most real about us is our spiritual nature. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
“[m]an is, in reality, a spiritual being, and only when he lives in the
spirit is he truly happy” [PT 72]. This implies that our moral goal is to
achieve emptiness or non-duality between our empirical, ‘every-day’
self and our spiritual self, i.e. to overcome any difference between
the two. Only thus can we become “as one soul.”62
Moreover, the Bahá’í Writings seek to apply this principle not
only to individuals but also socially, to races, nationalities and social
classes: “The divine Manifestations since the day of Adam have
striven to unite humanity so that all may be accounted as one soul”
[PUP 150]. It is not enough that individuals realize their emptiness vis-
à-vis the universal consciousness or God — rather, we must recognize
that, from spiritually speaking, racial and even cultural differences
are empty conventions. This is not to say these differences are not

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
valuable, but we must never forget that they are not ultimate, i.e.
empty and allow them to stand in the way of progress to a more
peaceful and productive world. In this way the Bahá’í Faith tries to
put the concept of emptiness into practice.
7. Emptiness in the Theravada Tradition
In the Theravada tradition which predominates in Southeast Asian
nations such as Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia and Laos,
the concept of emptiness plays a very different role than it does in
the various Mahayana schools. Edward Conze, one of the greatest
Buddhologists, informs us that the Theravada thinkers “knew the
term empty, but used it very sparingly. In the Pali Canon it occurs
only in a few places.”63 Not only are there fewer references to
emptiness in the Theravada tradition than in the Mahayana, but the
Theravada has emphasis is on practices that lead to the experience of
‘liberation’ or ‘nibbana’ (‘nirvana’ in Sanskrit), also known as
‘awakening.’ Liberation refers to the condition in which ignorance
and the resulting desire, suffering and kamma (‘karma’ in Sanskrit)
are left behind or transcended. This brings with it serenity and bliss.
Liberation must be personally experienced to be understood. Unlike
the Mahayana tradition which is rich in metaphysical reflections on
emptiness as a lack of inherent existence, the Theravada tradition is
more pragmatic than speculative in its approach to emptiness. It is
concerned with how the practice of emptiness can help us overcome
the unsatisfactoriness or suffering of life and to attain nibbana, i.e.
awakening or liberation.
In the Theravada there was greater emphasis on self-discipline
and individual achievement. The goal was arhatship, which
symbolized the extinction of the fires of lust and craving in
the individual brought about by his or her own efforts.64
Theravadin monk and scholar Thanissaro Bhikkhu states,
This is where this sort of emptiness differs from the
metaphysical definition of emptiness as “lack of inherent
existence.” Whereas that view of emptiness doesn't
necessarily involve integrity — it's an attempt to describe the
ultimate truth of the nature of things, rather than to evaluate

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
actions — this approach to emptiness requires honestly
evaluating your mental actions and their results. Integrity is
thus integral to its mastery.112
Two suttas (the Pali term for ‘sutras’ or Buddha word) stand out in
this regard, The Greater Discourse on Emptiness and The Lesser
Discourse on Emptiness. According to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, the Pali
Canon has three perspectives on emptiness. The first concerns
acquiring and maintaining the mental state of emptiness, i.e. learning
how to empty the mind of all distractions and keep it empty. Step by
step the Buddha explains how to empty the mind of the perception of
social distractions, of natural distractions and eventually the
distractions of space, nothingness and consciousness and all the
humanly-constructed concepts of “perception and nonperception.”113
This brings the seeker to “his entry into emptiness, accords with
actuality, is undistorted in meaning, pure — superior [and]
unsurpassed.”65 Here we observe emptiness as goal of meditation;
‘emptiness’ is freedom from disturbing intrusions. This first
perspective on emptiness is the focal point of this discourse.
The second perspective on emptiness concerns the question,
‘What does it mean to say the world is empty?’ The answer is that the
world is empty insofar as nothing has any ‘self.’
Insofar as it [the world] is empty of a self or of anything
pertaining to a self: Thus it is said, Ananda, that the world is
empty. And what is empty of a self or of anything pertaining
to a self? The eye is empty of a self or of anything pertaining
to a self. Forms... Eye-consciousness... Eye-contact is empty
of a self or of anything pertaining to a self.66
The intellect, ideas, consciousness are also empty of self and,
therefore, any attributes we impute to objects of consciousness, i.e.
the world, are empty of self as well. We create this illusion of self in
our desire to be happy, and, consequently seek to control the world
around us, engaging in “my-making” and “I-making”67 which
inevitably incites struggles with others trying to do the same. When
we perceive without implicitly or unconsciously tainting our
perceptions with notions of self, i.e. engage in self-centered

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
perception, they cease to cause us dissatisfaction and suffering. As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we are to become “weary of self” [SWAB 76].
“Emptiness in its third meaning, as a type of awareness-release”68
which is an application of the second meaning of emptiness in
concrete situations. For example, in an empty house, we may consider
how every room in the house is empty of self, which, according to the
Theravada tradition is different from the first kind of emptiness as
we eliminate distractions. The finer details of this kind of emptiness
need not detain us here, except to say that this kind of emptiness may
“lead to Awakening”68 which is the end of ignorance, desiring,
suffering and karma, and the attainment of supreme, unconditioned
tranquility.
The Theravada teachings and the Bahá’í Writings are convergent
about several issues in regards to emptiness. The first of these
concerns the practical application of emptiness as freedom from
intrusive distractions. According to the Writings, “No thing have I
perceived, except that I perceived God within it, God before it, or
God after it” [GWB 178]. As a guide to practicing emptiness vis-à-vis
distractions, this statement can be the basis of training ourselves not
to see anything but the signs of God in all things much as the aspiring
Theravadin excludes a variety of intrusive perceptions and ideas. In
other words, Bahá’ís will practice setting aside or emptying their
vision of the ‘defilements,’ i.e. the short-coming of things and/or
people, and strive to see only the presence of the divine names in
them.
The chief of these distractions is the notion of ‘self’ — which, as in
the Buddhist scriptures, must be transcended for any spiritual
progress to occur. This message is conveyed in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s story
of Christ and the dead dog. Whereas the disciples were repelled by the
gross sights and smells, Christ, so to speak, emptied His perception
of these negative distractions and saw only the positive [SWAB 169].
We might also say that the disciples were imprisoned by their self-
centered perception of the decaying dog — they focussed exclusively
on how the dog affected them personally, i.e. how it affected the self.
Christ’s response, on the other hand, demonstrated that he had
emptied His perception of self and was awakened to the presence of
the divine. He was liberated from self and self-centered perception. 69
This emphasis on over-coming self-centered perception and living is,

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
of course, the main point of the second meaning o emptiness in the
Theravada teachings. The Writings agree that what Thanissaro
Bhikkhu calls “I-making” and “my-making”70 are the source of
conflicts as we perceive the world in terms of ‘I’ and ‘mine,’ i.e. self-
centered perception. Consequently, this perceptual habit must be
overcome.
Finally, Bahá’u’lláh commands us to become “one soul,” [GWB 169]
a command which requires us to empty our minds of all the intrusive
distractions of negative differences. As we can see, a similar
emptying process is at work as distractions from our goal are
repelled. On this score, the Bahá’í Writings and the Theravada
teachings converge. However, the Writings practice emptying more
in an ethical context than the Theravada teachings which also concern
themselves with eliminating ‘metaphysical’ distractions such as time,
space and the humanly-constructed concepts of “perception and non-
perception.”71 The difference between the Bahá’í and Theravada
teaching is largely a matter of emphasis.
Both the Theravada tradition and the Bahá’í Writings share the
idea that understanding and practicing emptiness is necessary to
awakening. Theravadins practice emptiness in order to achieve
liberation, nibbana or awakening to humankind’s true condition
beyond ignorance, desire, suffering and kamma (karma). On the other
hand, Bahá’ís practice emptiness to awaken to and experience the
divine presence in all. From a Bahá’í perspective, this divine presence
is also the true human condition and the defilements we add to our
lives are the self-driven falsifications we need to overcome.
8. Conclusion
Our survey of the Bahá’í Writings and the Buddhist concept of
emptiness leads to three major conclusions. First: there are a
surprising number of agreements and convergences on this subject
especially regarding the ontological basis for the concept of
emptiness. This does not seem to change whether we discuss the
Madhyamika, the Tathagatagarbha or the Yogacara traditions. The
key elements of dependent origination, ubiquitous change as the basis
of emptiness, as well as the role of conventions and the necessity for
seeing through them remain constant. In the Theravada tradition we

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness
observe similarities regarding the practice of emptiness. Second: the
Buddhist tradition with which the Bahá’í Writings have the clearest
convergences is the Tathagatagarbha tradition. The concept of the
presence of the divine or Buddha-Nature in all things and the
definition of emptiness as the removal of defilements are clearly in
harmony with the Writings. Third: the study of the Buddhist concepts
of emptiness and the Bahá’í Writings requires more study to work
out the details of these convergences which have only been
adumbrated here.



NOTES
1 “Buddhism Rising,” National Geographic, Vol. 208, No. 6, December 2005,
p. 98.
2 Buddha, The Theravada Mahaparinirvana Sutta, in Piyadassi, The Spectrum
of Buddhism, p.104.
3 P.A. Payutto, Dependent Origination, p.4.
4 Dale S. Wright, The Six Perfections, p. 221.
5 The Questions of King Milinda, trans. by T.W. Rhys Davids, Bk II, chp. 1.
http://www.sacredtexts.com/bud/milinda.htm
6 Mahjjima-Nikaya, Sutta 63, trans by Thanissaro Bhikkhu,
http://www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/mn/mn.063.than.html
7 Thanissaro Bhikkhu, “The Concept of No-Self in Buddhism;” emphasis
added. http://www.angelfire.com/electronic/awakening101/noself.html
8 See also Foundations of World Unity, 83, 57; The Promulgation of
Universal Peace 160, 284, 285;
9 Majjhima Nikaya 28 in The Path of the Buddha: Buddhism Interpreted by
Buddhists, p. 81; see also Buddhist Thought: A Complete Introduction to
the Indian Tradition, p. 66.
10 P.A. Payutto, Dependent Origination, p.4.
11 Gadjin M Nagao, Madhyamika and Yogacara, p. 178.
12 C.W. Huntington with Geshe Wangchen, The Emptiness of Emptiness.
13 A sutra or sutta (in Pali) is a text that is considered to be a revelation of
the Buddha.
14 The Heart Sutra, trans. by E. Conze.
http://kr.buddhism.org/zen/sutras/conze.htm

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


15 Hsueh-Li Cheng, Empty Logic: Madhyamika Buddhism from Chinese
Sources, p. 50.
16 Hsueh-Li Cheng, Empty Logic: Madhyamika Buddhism from Chinese
Sources, p. 51.
17 The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way, trans. and commentary by
Jay L. Garfield, p. 50.
18 The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way, p. 100.
19 The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way, p. 101.
20 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 70.
21 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.
22 The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way, p. 91.
23 The Buddha, Udana 80 -81 in Buddhist Texts Through the Ages ed. by
Conze and Waley, p. 95.
24 Heng-Ching Shih, “The Significance of Tathagatagarbha: A Positive
Expression of Sunyata,” http://www.viet.net/anson/ebud/ebdha191.htm
25 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
26 C.W. Huntington and Geshe Namgayl Wangchen, The Emptiness of
Emptiness. p. 26.
27 The Emptiness of Emptiness. p. 29.
28 The Emptiness of Emptiness. p. 37.
29 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 4.
30 The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way, p. 89.
31 Donald S Lopez Jr., The Story of Buddhism, p. 250.
32 David J Kalupahana, A History of Buddhist Philosophy, p. 51.
33 The Tathagatagarbha Sutra, trans. by William H Grosnick; emphasis
added. http://www.webspawner.com/users/bodhisattva/index.html  57
The Tathagatagarbha Sutra, trans. by William H Grosnick.
34 The Srimala Devi Sutra, trans. by Alex and Hideko Wayman; emphasis
added http://www.purifymind.com/SrimalaDeviSutra.htm
35 The Srimala Devi Sutra, trans. by Alex and Hideko Wayman.
36 The Tathagatagarbha Sutra, trans. by William H Grosnick.
37 The Mahaparinirvana Sutra, trans. by Kosho Yamamoto, Chapter 12.
http://nichirenscoffeehouse.net/books/NirvanaSutra12.html
38 Tony Page, Appreciation of the Nahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra.”
http://www.nirvanasutra.org.uk/basicteachings.htm
39 Tony Page, An Appreciation of the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra,
Section 4.

Buddhist Doctrine of Emptiness


40 Paul Williams, “Buddhist Concept of Emptiness.”
http://www.texttribe.com/routledge/B/Buddhist%20concept%20of%20e
mptiness.html
72 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 195.
41 Paul Williams, “Buddhist Concept of Emptiness.”
42 Tony Page, Appreciation of the “Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra.”
Emphasis added.
43 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 105.
44 Taranatha, The Essence of Other-Emptiness, trans. and annotated by
Jeffrey Hopkins, p. 12.
45 Tony Page, Appreciation of the “Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra.”
Section 2. http://www.nirvanasutra.net/
46 Donald Lopez Jr., The Story of Buddhism, p. 99.
47 The Buddha, Mahayana Parinirvana Sutra, trans. by Kosho Yamamoto, Ch.
12.
48 The Buddha, Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra, trans. by Kosho
Yamamoto, Ch. 12.
49 David J Kalupahana, A History of Buddhist Philosophy, p.182, 88 Rupert
Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 252.
50 Edward J Thomas, The History of Buddhist Thought, p. 233-234.
51 David J Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 143.
52 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Philosophical Foundation, p. 84.
53 Rupert Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 245.
54 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Philosophical Foundation, p. 146.
55 Dalai Lama, The Spirit of Manjushri, Part Three, “Emptiness.”
http://www.lamayeshe.com/index.php?sect=article&id=253&chid=510
56 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Philosophical Foundation, p. 146.
57 With the ontological concept of God, the Yogacara consciousness shares
absolute independence, eternity, and an essential nature and real
attributes. It functions much like God as a necessary ground-of-being.
58 Rupert Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 246.
59 David J. Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 149.
60 Rupert Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 248.
61 The nature of the Manifestation is different and not to be confused with
the nature of the rest of creation.
62 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 76; see
Gleanings LXXXVI, CVII, CXXII.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


63 Edward Conze, Buddhism: Its Essence and Development, p. 132. See also
Conze, A Short History of Buddhism, p. 52.
64 John M Koller, Oriental Philosophies, p. 151. 112 Thanissaro Bhikku, “The
Integrity of Emptiness,” http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib
/authors/thanissaro/integrityofemptiness.html
65 The Buddha, The Lesser Discourse on Emptiness (MN 121).
66 “Suñña Sutta: Empty” (SN 35.85), trans. from Pali by Thanissaro Bhikkhu.
Access to Insight, 30 June 2010,
http://www.accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/sn/sn35/sn35.085.than.html.
67 Thanissaro Bhikkhu, The Integrity of Emptiness, www.accesstoinsight.org
/lib/authors/thanissaro/integrityofemptiness.html
68 Thanissaro Bhikkhu, “Introduction” to The Greater Discourse on
Emptiness, http://accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/mn/mn.122.than.html
69 These statements, of course, refer to Christ in His human station.
70 Thanissari Bhikkhu, The Integrity of Emptiness.
71 The Buddha, The Lesser Discourse on Emptiness (MN 121).

Two Episodes from the Life of
Bahá’u’lláh in Iran
Moojan Momen
Summary
This article examines two episodes in the life of Bahá’u’lláh in
Iran. The first involves an examination of the events, trajectory and
timeline of Bahá’u’lláh's journeying between the end of the
Conference of Badasht and His arrival at the shrine of Shaykh
Tabarsí. There appear to be different versions of this among three
sources: Nabíl's Narrative, the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and the
writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. This article attempts to examines these
events more closely and come to a conclusion about what probably
occurred. The second episode involves a close examination of a
Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh which is interpreted as revealing fresh
information about the experience of Bahá’u’lláh while in the Siyáh
Chál.
In the writing of history, it is frequently necessary to examine a
number of sources about a particular event and come to a conclusion
about what probably happened. This paper will focus on two
episodes in the life of Bahá’u’lláh in Iran that require closer
examination. In this study, use will primarily be made of passages
from the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, supported by
other evidence.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
A. The period between Bahá’u’lláh's departure
from the Conference of Badasht until His Arrival
at Shaykh Tabarsí
The first episode to be dealt with is the question of Bahá’u’lláh’s
activities between His departure from the Conference of Badasht
until His visit to the Bábís at the shrine of Shaykh Tabarsí. This
period in the life of Bahá’u’lláh needs to be examined more closely
because there are different accounts of events, trajectories and time-
lines suggested by different sources: Nabíl's Narrative, the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and a Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. We will here examine all
three and make a suggestion as to which sequence of events seems the
most likely.
1. Nabíl’s Account
If one reads Nabíl’s Narrative, one finds that Bahá’u’lláh left
Badasht and travelled with other Bábís as far as the village of Niyálá.
Niyálá is 115 kilometres in a straight line1 from Badasht but must
have take at least 10 days distance, given that it is through
mountainous country. There the Bábís were attacked by the villagers
and dispersed. Nabíl states that the incident at Niyálá occurred in the
middle of Sha`ban 1264 (mid-August 1848).2 From reading Nabíl’s
account, it would appear that after this episode, Bahá’u’lláh
proceeded to Núr and it was there that orders arrived for Him to be
arrested, conveyed to Tehran and there executed, orders that were
then annulled the next day by the news of the death of Muhammad
Sháh. The following is Nabíl’s account of what happened at Niyálá
and afterwards.
I have heard Bahá’u’lláh Himself describe that incident:
“We were all gathered in the village of Niyálá and were
resting at the foot of a mountain, when, at the hour of dawn,
we were suddenly awakened by the stones which the people of
the neighbourhood were hurling upon us from the top of the
mountain. The fierceness of their attack induced our
companions to flee in terror and consternation. . . . None of
our companions had remained in Niyálá except Táhirih and a
young man from Shiraz, Mírzá ‘Abdu’lláh. . . I found no one

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
into whose custody I could deliver Táhirih except that young
man, who displayed on that occasion a courage and
determination that were truly surprising. . .”
Bahá’u’lláh, accompanied by Táhirih and her attendant, proceeded
to Núr. He appointed Shaykh Abu-Turab to watch over her and
ensure her protection and safety. Meanwhile the mischief-makers
were endeavouring to kindle the anger of Muhammad Sháh against
Bahá’u’lláh, and, by representing Him as the prime mover of the
disturbances of Sháh-Rud and Mazindaran, succeeded eventually in
inducing the sovereign to have Him arrested. “I have hitherto,” the
Sháh is reported to have angrily remarked, “refused to countenance
whatever has been said against Him. My indulgence has been actuated
by my recognition of the services rendered to my country by His
father. This time, however, I am determined to put Him to death.”
He accordingly commanded one of his officers in Tihran to
instruct his son who was residing in Mazindaran to arrest Bahá’u’lláh
and to conduct Him to the capital. The son of this officer received
the communication on the very day preceding the reception which he
had prepared to offer to Bahá’u’lláh, to whom he was devotedly
attached. He was greatly distressed and did not divulge the news to
anyone. Bahá’u’lláh, however, perceived his sadness and advised him
to put his trust in God. The next day, as He was being accompanied
by His friend to his home, they encountered a horseman who was
coming from the direction of Tihran. “Muhammad Sháh is dead!” that
friend exclaimed in the Mazindarani dialect, as he hastened to rejoin
Him after a brief conversation with the messenger. He drew out the
imperial summons and showed it to Him. The document had lost its
efficacy. That night was spent in the company of his guest in an
atmosphere of undisturbed calm and gladness.3
The next time that Nabíl’s Narrative picks up the story of
Bahá’u’lláh is His arrival at the shrine of Shaykh Tabarsí shortly after
Mullá Husayn and his companions had arrived there and just as they
completed the task of creating some makeshift fortifications to
defend themselves against the attacks that they knew were about to
occur:
The work had scarcely been completed when Shaykh Abú-Turab
arrived bearing the news of Bahá’u’lláh's arrival at the village of

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Nazar Khán. He informed Mullá Husayn that he had been specially
commanded by Bahá’u’lláh to inform them that they all were to be
His guests that night and that He Himself would join them that same
afternoon.4
Given that the last place that Nabíl had mentioned as Bahá’u’lláh’s
location was Núr and given that Shaykh Abu-Turab [Isthtihardi] is
mentioned as having been in Núr with Bahá’u’lláh and Táhirih in the
first quotation above and now appears in this second passage
bringing news of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival, we are led to believe that
Bahá’u’lláh must have come from Núr to be among the Bábís at
Shaykh Tabarsí.
2. The decree for the arrest of Bahá’u’lláh
Problems begin to arise when we set the above account by Nabíl
against statements made by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His Tablets. The
following is a provisional translation:
And so the Blessed Beauty (may my soul be a sacrifice to His
loved ones) went to Bandar Jaz and the notables of Jaz
showed Him the utmost respect and deference. Then
Muhammad Sháh issued, through Hájí Mírzá Áqásí, the
decree (farmán) for the execution of the Blessed Beauty.
News of this arrived confidentially in Bandar Jaz. As it
happened, on the next day, Bahá’u’lláh was invited to one of
the villages of a local notable. The Russian officials and some
of the local notables were insisting that Bahá’u’lláh should go
to the Russian vessel [that was anchored in the port].
However much they urged and insisted, He would not agree.
Then on the next day, He proceeded with a large crowd to
that village. On the way, a rider came up and gave a paper to
the adjutant of the Russian admiral (daryá-bigí). When he
opened it, he shouted out with the utmost joy and said in the
Mazandarani language “Mardí bimurd”, which meant that
Muhammad Sháh is dead. And so, on that day, when the local
notables and the others present learned that Muhammad Sháh
had issued a decree for the execution of the Blessed Beauty,
they held a great feast and were in the utmost joy until late at
night.5

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
Jaz or Gaz is a town at the far eastern end of Mazandaran and
Bandar Jaz or Bandar Gaz is the port of that town. From the above,
it is clear that this is the same episode (of Muhammad Sháh’s decree
for the execution of Bahá’u’lláh and its annulment caused by his
death) that Nabíl is describing in the first passage from Nabíl quoted
above. It cannot be a decree of Muhammad Sháh given on a different
occasion since both accounts describe how the decree was nullified by
Muhammad Sháh's death. But instead of happening in Núr as the
context in Nabíl would seem to indicate, in this account it happened
in Bandar Jaz. Both places are in what was then considered to be
Mazandaran but they are at the opposite ends of Mazandaran, 200
kilometres apart.
In fact Jaz and Bandar Jaz are situated a distance of about 40
kilometres to the north-east of the village of Niyálá,. It therefore
seems much more likely that Bahá’u’lláh went to Bandar Jaz
immediately after the Niyálá episode. This would make sense of the
fact that Nabíl records that Bahá’u’lláh entrusted Táhirih’s safety to
Mírzá ‘Abdu’lláh Shírází, as mentioned in the passage from Nabíl
above. He would not have needed to entrust Táhirih’s safety to
anyone if He had been accompanying her back to Núr Himself. He
entrusted her safety to Mírzá ‘Abdu’lláh because, after the attack at
Niyálá, He was going to go towards Bandar Jaz and He needed
someone to accompany Táhirih to Núr.
3. Arrival of Bahá’u’lláh at Shaykh Tabarsí
The death of a king in Iran, as indeed in most countries, was a
major event and most people would accurately remember where they
were when they first heard of it. Muhammad Sháh died in Tehran on 4
September 1848. News of it would have gone out by couriers (chapar)
who rode from station to station only stopping briefly to change
horses. It would have reached Bandar Jaz within three or four days.
We can therefore place Bahá’u’lláh at Bandar Jaz on about 7th or 8th
of September 1848.
We also know that Mullá Husayn Bushrú’í raised the black
standard, signalizing according to a well-known Islamic Tradition the
advent of the Mahdí, just outside Mashhad on 19 Sha`bán 1264 (21
July 1848) and marched westwards with a band of Bábís. News of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
death of Muhammad Sháh reached Mullá Husayn when he and his
companions had reached Chishmih-`Alí, about 60 kilometres north-
west of Damghán.6 Chishmih `Ali is situated about 56 kilometres
almost due south of Bandar Jaz and both are about equidistant from
Tehran. News of Muhammad Sháh’s death would have reached Mullá
Husayn at about the same time as it reached Bahá’u’lláh. Thus we
know where both Bahá’u’lláh and Mullá Husayn were on about the
same date of 7th or 8th September 1848. From these two locations
and this point in time, both were travelling westwards (Bahá’u’lláh
almost due west towards Núr, Mullá Husayn in a west north-westerly
direction, probably heading for Barfurush, Quddús’s hometown, to
try to find him).
Bahá’u’lláh would however have spent at a few more days in
Bandar Jaz after the news of the death of Muhammad Sháh reached
there. Then as He travelled, being a member of one of the notable
families in Mazandaran, at each town and village that He came to,
custom would dictate that the leading notable of that place would
have invited Bahá’u’lláh to remain a few days and at the very least to
remain for a substantial feast that would be given in His honour.
Bahá’u’lláh’s dignity and position in society would have demanded
that He remain in each location a requisite length of time to show
due honour to His host. Thus Bahá’u’lláh would have travelled
slowly. In one Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh alludes to this when He says that
He came to that region heading for Núr (provisional translation):
This Wronged One came from the direction of Sháhrúd [near
which Badasht is located] until we entered Gaz and visited
that area. And from there we went on to Ashraf [the next
town west of Gaz, now called Behshahr] and before reaching
there to the district of Hizár Jaríb, village by village, town
by town.7
The phrase “village by village, town by town” indicates the slow
nature of His progress. Mullá Husayn was however travelling with no
such considerations. He did not need to stay in any place for longer
than for a night’s rest. He was therefore travelling westwards much
more rapidly.
The route of Mullá Husayn took him to Bárfurúsh (now called
Babol). He probably thought that he would find Quddús there in his

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
hometown. But Quddús had been arrested at Sárí on his way back to
Bárfurúsh from Badasht. After a clash with the mob that had been
stirred up by Sa`ídu’l-`Ulamá, the religious leader of that town, Mullá
Husayn and his companions proceeded to the shrine of Shaykh
Tabarsí where they arrived on 14 Dhu’l-Qad`ih 1268 (11 October
1848).8
The route that Bahá’u’lláh was taking westwards from Bandar Gaz
and Ashraf would take Him through Sárí and then `Aliyábád. Near
`Aliyábád is the shrine of Shaykh Tabarsí. Thus Bahá’u’lláh, travelling
much more slowly than Mullá Husayn’s party, would have arrived in
the vicinity of Shaykh Tabarsí a couple of weeks after Mullá Husayn
and his companions first arrived there and would have heard of the
presence of the Bábís at Shaykh Tabarsí from the local inhabitants.
Bahá’u’lláh would moreover have passed through Sárí on His way and
was able to give Mullá Husayn news of Quddús’s whereabouts. And
so a party was sent to Sari to rescue Quddús.9 Thus it seems very
likely that when Bahá’u’lláh arrived at Shaykh Tabarsí, He was
returning from the Conference of Badasht, coming from an easterly
direction and not arriving from Núr to the west of Shaykh Tabarsí.
This sequence of events then makes better sense of why
Bahá’u’lláh left Shaykh Tabarsí shortly after His arrival there. Nabíl
has Bahá’u’lláh arriving in Shaykh Tabarsí from Núr. Firstly, it is a
long way from Núr to Shaykh Tabarsí, more than 70 kilometres. It is
not clear how news of the arrival of Mullá Husayn at Shaykh Tabarsí
could have reached Bahá’u’lláh in Núr so quickly. Second, if
Bahá’u’lláh had come from Núr upon hearing of the arrival of Mullá
Husayn and his companions in Shaykh Tabarsí, why did He leave
again after so short a time, only to try to return again a few weeks
later? If Bahá’u’lláh was coming from the east, returning from
Badasht to Núr, however, this makes a great deal more sense. Firstly,
His route would have taken Him very close to Shaykh Tabarsí, so it is
likely that He heard of the Bábís at Shaykh Tabarsí from the villagers
and townspeople of that area. Secondly, since He was returning from
Badasht, He would have depleted all of the money that He had taken
with Him. For the conference of Badasht, Bahá’u’lláh not only rented
the gardens where the 81 Bábís attending the conference stayed but
He also paid for their food for the twenty-two days of the
conference. By the time he arrived at Shaykh Tabarsí on His way

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
back, He must have used up all of the money that He had taken with
Him. Seeing the Bábís gathered at Shaykh Tabarsí, requiring
provisions that needed to be bought in the surrounding villages,
Bahá’u’lláh determined to return to Núr, where He could refurbish
His supply of money and provisions. That is why He left Shaykh
Tabarsí so soon after arriving. His intention to return was however
thwarted when He was arrested with His companions, imprisoned and
bastinadoed at Amul on His way back.10
4. Further details about Bahá’u’lláh’s activities at
Bandar Jaz
There are two other points that need to be cleared up about this
period of time concerning a certain Mírzá Masíh Núrí who died while
Bahá’u’lláh was at Bandar Jaz. Mr Hasan Balyuzi assumed that Mírzá
Masíh lived in Bandar Jaz and died during Bahá’u’lláh’s visit to that
town and this is how he describes it at the beginning of Chapter Nine
of his book Bahá’u’lláh, the King of Glory (p. 48). Mírzá Masíh Núrí
was the nephew (sister’s son) of Mírzá Áqá Khán Núrí who at this
time was the minister of the army (vazír lashkar) and was later Prime
Minister.11 This family were distantly related both by blood and
marriage to Bahá’u’lláh and their hometown was Baladih which was
close to Bahá’u’lláh’s home village of Tákur, in Núr, Mázandarán.
Mírzá Masíh became a Bábí through Bahá’u’lláh and frequented
Bahá’u’lláh’s home in Tehran.12
The research for all of the above points of history was done at the
time that I was assisting Mr Balyuzi with the research for his book
Bahá’u’lláh, the King of Glory. I suggested on the basis of this
research that the episode of Bandar Jaz be placed at the beginning of
Chapter Nine (p. 48, where it now is) on Bahá’u’lláh’s way back from
Shaykh Tabarsí rather than at the end of Chapter Eleven after
Bahá’u’lláh’s detention at Amul as Mr Balyuzi had originally placed it
and as the above Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá seems to suggest.13
There is, however, further information about Mírzá Masíh in
other Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. In one Tablet written by Bahá’u’lláh in
the voice of Mírzá Áqá Ján, He replies to a person who had asked
about a phrase “Masíh in Rayy” which appears in another Tablet
(provisional translation):

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
This refers to His Honour Hájí Mírzá Masíh Núrí (may the
glory and mercy of God be upon him). I have on many
occasions heard of him from the lips of the Ancient [Beauty].
On a journey which the Desire of the World undertook in the
direction of Khurásán, he was in attendance and later he died
and is buried between His Holiness [Sháh] ‘Abdu’l-`Azím and
Imámzádih Hamzih.14
The Bab had directed His followers to proceed to Khurásán to
assist Quddús and Mullá Husayn there. Consequently Bahá’u’lláh,
Táhirih and a number of other Bábís set off towards Khurásán. They
then met Quddús who was coming from Mashhad at Badasht and the
Conference of Badasht occurred. Thus the phrase “journey which the
Desire of the World undertook in the direction of Khurásán” is a
reference to the journey to Badasht and indicates that Mírzá Masíh
accompanied Bahá’u’lláh from Tehran to the Conference of Badasht.
Thus when he died in Bandar Jaz, he was not resident there (as is
stated in Bahá’u’lláh King of Glory, p. 48), but had just arrived
accompanying Bahá’u’lláh. Indeed as Mr Balyuzi states, Bahá’u’lláh
fell ill after arriving at Bandar Jaz and it is likely that Mírzá Masíh
suffered from the same infectious disease but he died of it.
The above point is confirmed by Nabíl who writes that when
Bahá’u’lláh left Tehran in the direction of Khurasan, Mírzá Masíh
could not bear the separation and hurried after Him. However this
account by Nabíl creates another historical problem. As it is
published in books by both Fadil Mázándarání and ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd
Ishráq-Khávarí, this quotation from Nabíl goes on to say that Mírzá
Masíh accompanied Bahá’u’lláh as far as Darrih Gaz and died there.15
Darrih Gaz is situated in the remote north-western corner of Iran,
close to the present-day border with Turkmenistan. In those days it
was an extremely dangerous area to visit. There were frequent
Turkomen raids into that area from the north which resulted in
deaths, looting and the carrying off of prisoners to be sold as slaves
in the markets of Central Asia. No-one would visit Darrih Gaz unless
there was a pressing reason to do so and then only as part of a
military convoy. There is no reason to suppose that Bahá’u’lláh
visited Darrih-Gaz. It would appear that both Ishraq-Khavari and
Mazandarani had a manuscript of Nabíl’s Narrative where there was
scribal error. “Darrih Gaz” was written instead of “dar Gaz” (in Gaz),

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
a difference of one letter in the Persian text. Indeed in another work,
Ishraq Khavari correctly quotes Nabíl and says that Mírzá Masíh died
“dar Gaz” — in Gaz.16
5. The Evidence Against
Having presented the evidence for the version of events that I
favour, it is necessary to also necessary to present the evidence
against it.
First, there is a Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that has been referred to
above. This Tablet, written to the Bahá’ís of Bandar Jaz, seems to
suggest the following sequence of events: Bahá’u’lláh was heading
towards Shaykh Tabarsí when His party was surrounded and attacked
near Shaykh Tabarasí at Niyálá, by Mírzá Taqí, the governor of Amul.
Bahá’u’lláh was arrested and taken to Ámul. On the intervention of
`Abbas Qulí Khán, He was released from there, but prevented from
going to Shaykh Tabarasí. So Bahá’u’lláh proceeded to Bandar Jaz.
While there, the decree of Muhammad Sháh for Bahá’u’lláh's arrest
and execution arrived. Bahá’u’lláh was pressed to board the Russian
ship that was in the harbour but refused. The next day, the news
arrived that Muhammad Sháh had died and the decree was therefore
void.17
Most of the description of events in this Tablet concurs with the
rest of the historical evidence that we have and, indeed, I have quoted
from this Tablet in the account given above. However the sequence
of events presents problems. The attempt by Bahá’u’lláh to reach
Shaykh Tabarsí and His imprisonment in Amul, which other accounts
place as having occurred in late October 1850, over a month after the
death of Muhammad Shah, is here placed before the death of
Muhammad Sháh, the news of which only reaches Bahá’u’lláh after
He has left Amul and arrived in Jaz. It is for this reason that
preference has been given to the sequence of events suggested by the
Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh that His visit to Bandar Jaz occurred on His
way back to Núr from the Conference of Badasht.
A second piece of evidence that does not fit the sequence of
events that we have suggested is Nabíl’s account that Mírzá Masíh
was present in the house of Bahá’u’lláh when Hujjat-i Zanjani
reported on his delivery of the Bab’s tablet Khutbih-yi Qahriyyih (the

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
Sermon of Wrath) to Hájí Mírzá Áqásí.18 This Tablet dates from
immediately after the Bab’s return to Chihriq after His trial in
Tabriz, which would have been about the first week in August 1848.
Thus this places Bahá’u’lláh and Mírzá Masíh Núrí in Tehran at a date
in mid-August 1848 and certainly after the conclusion of the
Conference of Badasht (early July 1848) and before Muhammad
Sháh's death (4 September 1848). According to the sequence of events
we have suggested, at this time in mid-August 1848, Bahá’u’lláh
would still have been journeying back from Badasht and may have
reached Bandar Jaz. In any case, Mírzá Masíh never returned to
Tehran after the Conference of Badasht as he died in Bandar Jaz on
his way back. It is just possible that Bahá’u’lláh travelled with Mírzá
Masíh to Tehran immediately after the episode of Niyálá and there
Hujjat came to His house in about mid-August. Then they travelled
all the way back to Bandar Jaz, which is close to Niyálá, in about the
end of August. It is not immediately clear however why Bahá’u’lláh
should have zigzagged backwards and forwards in this manner over a
distance of some 400 kilometres. The only possibility that presents
itself is that, according to one unverified account,19 the person with
whom Bahá’u’lláh was with His brother-in-law Mírzá Majíd Áhí, who
was the Persian secretary at the Russian Legation in Tehran, when the
farmán (decree) of Muhammad Sháh for Bahá’u’lláh’s arrest and
execution arrived but was subsequently annulled as a result of the
death of Muhammad Sháh. It could be that Mírzá Majíd Áhí was sent
to Bandar Jaz in order to translate for a Russian admiral who had
arrived there aboard a Russian warship (as ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s tablet
seems to suggest) and that Bahá’u’lláh had decided to accompany him
together with Mírzá Masíh Núrí, who then died in Jaz. This would
then mean that after Shaykh Tabarsi, Bahá’u’lláh’s itinerary was:
Badasht, Núr, Tehran (where He met with Hujjat); He then set out
for Jaz (with Mírzá Masíh Núrí and Mirza Majíd Áhí); in Jaz, Mírzá
Masíh Núrí died and Muhammad Sháh’s decree arrived, then
Baha’u’llah set out for Núr, visiting the Bábís at Shaykh Tabarsí on
the way. There would just about have been enough time for this
sequence of events to occur but it seems contrary to Baha’u’llah’s
statement that He came to Jaz from Shahrúd (i.e. Badasht), unless we
assume two visits to Jaz (one on the way from Badasht and then one
coming from Tehran with Mírzá Masíh).

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Another resolution of the anomaly presented by Nabíl’s account
that can be suggested is that the Bab wrote several Tablets to Hájí
Mírzá Áqásí and Muhammad Sháh and this episode of Hujjat coming
to Bahá’u’lláh's house and reporting on his giving a Tablet of the Bab
to Hájí Mírzá Áqásí refers to one of the Tablets that the Bab wrote
before the Khutbih-yi Qahriyyih.
B. Bahá’u’lláh's experience in the Siyah Chal
What Shoghi Effendi describes as the “the birth of the Mission of
Bahá’u’lláh” was a spiritual experience that Bahá’u’lláh had while He
was imprisoned in the Siyáh Chál.20 The attempt on the life of the
Nasiru'd-Din Sháh by three Bábís occurred on 15 August 1852.
Following this, all the known Bábís in Tehran were arrested and
thrown into an underground dungeon that had formerly been a
cistern, the Siyah Chal. At the beginning of the summer when it was
customary for the notables of the town to retire to country estates to
the north of Tehran in the cooler foothills of the Alborz mountains,
the Prime Minister, Mírzá Áqá Khán Núrí, had ordered Bahá’u’lláh to
go to his (the Prime Minister's) estate at Afchih to the north-east of
Tehran. Bahá’u’lláh was there when the attempt on the life of the shah
occurred. The Prime Minister's brother, Ja`far-Quli Khan, who was
acting as His host, urged Him to flee to the Caspian coast and catch a
ship to Russian territory, but Bahá’u’lláh refused. Instead He set off
towards Tehran. On the way, He stopped off at Zargandih to visit
His sister who was married to Mírzá Majíd Áhí, the Persian secretary
of the Russian Legation in Tehran. He was seen entering the Legation
and the Iranian government demanded His being handed over to them
as He was a known Bábí. The Russian minister in Tehran agreed to
this but asked however that he be shown any evidence that was found
against Bahá’u’lláh. This was reported in the official government
newspaper, Rúznámih-yi Vaqáyi`-i Ittifáqiyyih of 10 Dhu’l-Qa`dih
1268 (26 August 1852, p. 2, column 2) — this being probably the first
published reference to Bahá’u’lláh in the world:
One of these [Bábís], named Mírzá Husayn `Alí Núrí, fled to
Zargandih where the honoured Minister Plenipotentiary of
the Russian Government was. The latter, as soon as he
realized that [the fugitive] was from this wretched people, he

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
acted in accordance with the dictates of the accord that exists
between the two governments. With the utmost wisdom, he
forbade this and the servants of the embassy sent Him to the
officials of the exalted [Iranian] government.
Once in the custody of Persian officials, Bahá’u’lláh was taken on
foot to Tehran and thrown into the Siyáh Chál along with the other
Bábí prisoners. The same issue of the same newspaper records the
execution of thirty-five Bábís. According to the evidence in the
reports of the British Minister in Tehran, Justin Sheil, ten of these
were executed by the shah’s executioners on about 21 August. Then
on about 25 August, the remaining Bábís were handed over one by
one to the members of various departments of the government and
sections of society, each group vying with the other to find ever
more gruesome ways of killing their prisoner on the streets of
Tehran.21 The same issue of this newspaper (p. 2, col. 2) also reports
that Bahá’u’lláh was condemned to imprisonment:
[As for] Mírzá Husayn `Alí Núrí, Mírzá Sulayman-Qulí,
Mírzá Mahmúd and his nephew, Áqá ‘Abdu’lláh, the son of
Áqa Muhammad Ja`far, and Mírzá Javád Khurázání, since
investigations did not show that they were involved with the
others in this corrupt and evil action, His Majesty the Shah
ordered that they be imprisoned perpetually.
The exact date that Bahá’u’lláh entered the Siyáh Chál is not
known but from the date of the attempt on the life of the shah and
the above reports, we can surmise that it must have been on 16 or 17
August 1852. It was while Bahá’u’lláh was in the Siyah Chal that he
had a spiritual experience that, as with all spiritual experiences, is
very difficult to describes in this-worldly language. Bahá’u’lláh
therefore uses various images, similes and metaphors to describe it in
various passages of His writings. In the Súrih-yi Haykal, He describes
it thus:
While engulfed in tribulations I heard a most wondrous, a
most sweet voice, calling above My head. Turning My face, I
beheld a Maiden — the embodiment of the remembrance of
the name of My Lord — suspended in the air before Me. So
rejoiced was she in her very soul that her countenance shone

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
with the ornament of the good pleasure of God, and her
cheeks glowed with the brightness of the All-Merciful.
Betwixt earth and heaven she was raising a call which
captivated the hearts and minds of men. She was imparting to
both My inward and outer being tidings which rejoiced My
soul, and the souls of God's honoured servants.
Pointing with her finger unto My head, she addressed all who
are in heaven and all who are on earth, saying: By God! This is
the Best-Beloved of the worlds, and yet ye comprehend not.
This is the Beauty of God amongst you, and the power of His
sovereignty within you, could ye but understand.22 [SLH 6]
In the Tablet to Násiru'd-Dín Sháh, the episode is described thus:
O King! I was but a man like others, asleep upon My couch,
when lo, the breezes of the All-Glorious were wafted over
Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that hath been. This
thing is not from Me, but from One Who is Almighty and
All-Knowing. And He bade Me lift up My voice between
earth and heaven, and for this there befell Me what hath
caused the tears of every man of understanding to flow.23
[SLH 95]
In the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’u’lláh writes:
One night, in a dream, these exalted words were heard on
every side: “Verily, We shall render Thee victorious by
Thyself and by Thy Pen. Grieve Thou not for that which hath
befallen Thee, neither be Thou afraid, for Thou art in safety.
Erelong will God raise up the treasures of the earth — men
who will aid Thee through Thyself and through Thy Name,
wherewith God hath revived the hearts of such as have
recognized Him. [ESW 21]
And again in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’u’lláh writes:
During the days I lay in the prison of Tihran, though the
galling weight of the chains and the stench-filled air allowed
Me but little sleep, still in those infrequent moments of

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
slumber I felt as if something flowed from the crown of My
head over My breast, even as a mighty torrent that
precipitateth itself upon the earth from the summit of a lofty
mountain. Every limb of My body would, as a result, be set
afire. At such moments My tongue recited what no man
could bear to hear. [ESW 22]
Bahá’u’lláh was released from the Siyáh Chál and spent about a
month at the home of His half-brother Mírzá Ridá-Qulí and his wife
Maryam (Bahá’u’lláh’s cousin), recuperating. Since the date of His
departure from Tehran for exile in Iraq is stated to be 1 Rabi` II 1269
(12 January 1853), it appears that he left the Siyah Chal on about 13
December 1852. Thus Baha’u’llah’s Siyah-Chal spiritual experience
must have been between about 16 August and about 13 December 1852.
It is suggested by this writer that some extra information about
Bahá’u’lláh's Siyah Chal experience can be obtained from the close
examination of a Tablet that He wrote in the `Akka period. The
following is a provisional translation of a short passage from this
Tablet. After writing about how in the Holy Scriptures of some
religions there is mention of the burning of books and the killing of
people, He writes about how, in His childhood, He saw an account of
the killing of the tribe of Banú Qurayza. This was an episode in the
life of the Prophet Muhammad. Banú Qurayza was a tribe of Medina
that had been allies of the Muslims but had then betrayed them in
battle. After the battle, the Muslims returned to Medina to deal with
Banú Qurayza, who surrendered to them. Muhammad had given the
judgement of their fate to the leader of another Medinan tribe who
had always been allies of the Banú Qurayza. This man sentenced all
the men of the tribe to death and the women and children to be sold
into slavery. This is a provisional translation of the passage that I
wish to focus on:
o When this Wronged One was a child, He read about the attack
on the Banú Qurayzah, in a book attributed to Mullá Báqir
Majlisí, and immediately became so grieved and saddened that
the Pen is unable to recount it, even though what occurred was
the command of God and had no purpose except the rooting
out of the oppressors. Despite this, with the ocean of
forgiveness and boundless mercy before His eyes, He

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
beseeched the One True God, exalted be His glory, at that time
for that which would be the cause of universal love,
fellowship, and the unity of all the peoples of the earth.
o Until (tá án kih) before sunrise on the second day of the month
of [His] birth, all His comportment, speech and thought were
thrown into turmoil, a tumult that gave glad tidings of
exaltation (`urúj). This tumult was sent down and manifest
repeatedly, without interruption, for twelve days, after which
the waves of the ocean of utterance became manifest and the
effulgences (tajalliyyat) of the sun of certitude dawned,
o Until (ilá an) it culminated in the moment of Manifestation.
Thus I attained unto that which God hath made the source of
joy to all mankind and the dawning-place of His bounty to all
who are in heaven and on earth.
o And after that (va ba`d), by means of an ineluctable and
irrevocable decree of the Most Exalted Pen, we eliminated
whatever had been the cause of suffering, distress, and
discord, and rained down the instruments of unity and
fellowship.24
The original is given here for those who read Persian and wish to
check the translation:
•ﺍﻴﻥ ﻤﻅﻠﻭﻡ ﺩﺭ ﻁﻔﻭﻟﻴﺕ ﺩﺭ ﮐﺘﺎﺒﻴﮑﻪ ﻨﺴﺒﺘﺵ ﺒﻤﺭﺤﻭﻡ ﻤﻐﻔﻭﺭ ﻤﻼ ﺒﺎﻗﺭ ﻤﺠﻠ ﺴﯽ ﺒﻭﺩﻩ ﻏﺯﻭﻩ
ﺍﻫل ﻗﺭﻴﻅﻪ ﺭﺍ ﻤﺸﺎﻫﺩﻩ ﻨﻤﻭﺩ ﻭ ﺍﺯ ﺁﻥ ﺤﻴﻥ ﻤﻬﻤﻭﻡ ﻭ ﻤﺤﺯﻭﻥ ﺒﻭﺩ ﺒﺸﺄﻨﻴﮑﻪ ﻗﻠﻡ ﺍﺯ ﺫﮐﺭﺵ
ﻋﺎﺠﺯ ﺍﮔﺭ ﭽﻪ ﺁﻨﭽﻪ ﻭﺍﻗﻊ ﺸﺩﻩ ﺍﻤﺭﺍﻟﻠﹼﻪ ﺒﻭﺩﻩ ﻭ ﻤﻘﺼﻭﺩ ﺠﺯ ﻗﻁﻊ ﺩﺍﺒﺭ ﻅﺎﻟﻤﻴﻥ ﻨﺒﻭﺩﻩ ﻭﻟﮑﻥ
ﭽﻭﻥ ﺩﺭﻴﺎﯼ ﻋﻔﻭ ﻭ ﻓﻀل ﺒﻴﮑﺭﺍﻥ ﻤﺸﺎﻫﺩﻩ ﻤﻴﺸﺩ ﻟﺫﺍ ﺩﺭ ﺁﻥ ﺍﻴﺎﻡ ﺍﺯ ﺤﻕﹼ ﺠلّ ﺠﻼﻟﻪ ﻤﻴﻁﻠﺒﻴﺩ
ﺁﻨﭽﻪ ﺭﺍ ﮐﻪ ّﺴﺒﺏ ﻤﺤﺒﺕ ﻭ ﺍﻟﻔﺕ ﻭ ﺍﺘﺤﺎﺩ ﮐل
ﻤﻥ ﻋﻠﯽ ﺍﻻﺭﺽ ﺒﻭﺩﻩ
•
ﺘﺎ ﺁﻨﮑﻪ ﺩﺭ ﺩﻭﻴﻡ ﻤﺎﻩ ﻤﻭﻟﻭﺩ ﻗﺒل ﺍﺯ ﻁﻠﻭﻉ ﺠﻤﻴﻊ ﺍﻁﻭﺍﺭ ﻭ ﺫﮐﺭ ﻭ ﻓﮑﺭ ﻤﻨﻘﻠﺏ ﺸﺩ ﺍﻨﻘﻼﺒﯽ
ﮐﻪ ﺒﺸﺎﺭﺕ ﻋﺭﻭﺝ ﻤﻴﺩﺍﺩ ﺍﻴﻥ ﺍﻨﻘﻼﺏ ﺘﺎ ﺩﻭﺍﺯﺩﻩ ﻴﻭﻡ ﻤﺘﺘﺎﺒﻊ ﻭ ﻤﺘﻭﺍﻟﯽ ﻨﺎﺯل ﻭ ﻅﺎﻫﺭ ﺒﻌﺩ
ﺍﻤﻭﺍﺝ ﺒﺤﺭ ﺒﻴﺎﻥ ﻤﺸﻬﻭﺩ ﻭ ﺘﺠﻠﹼ
ﻴﺎﺕ ﻨﻴﺭ ﺍﻁﻤﻴﻨﺎﻥ ﻤﺸﺭﻕ ﻭ ﻤﻭﺠﻭ
ﺩ
•ﺍﻟﯽ ﺍﻥ ﺍﻨﺘﻬﯽ ﺍﻻﻤﺭ ﺍﻟﯽ ﺤﻴﻥ ﺍﻟﻅﻬﻭﺭ
ﺍﺫﺍ ﻓﺯﺕ ﺒﻤﺎ ﺠﻌﻠﻪ ﺍﻟﻠﹼﻪ ﻤﺒﺩﺀ ﻓﺭﺡ ﺍﻟﻌﺎﻟﻤﻴﻥ ﻭ ﻤﺸﺭﻕ
ﺍﻟﻌﻁﺎﺀ ﻟﻤﻥ ﻓﯽ ﺍﻟﺴﻤﻭﺍﺕ ﻭ ﺍﻻﺭﻀﻴﻥ
•
ﻭ ﺒﻌﺩ ﺍﺯ ﻗﻠﻡ ﺍﻋﻠﯽ ﺁﻨﭽﻪ ﺴﺒﺏ ﺯﺤﻤﺕ ﻭ ﻤﺸﻘﺕ ﻭ ﺍﺨﺘﻼﻑ ﺒﻭﺩﻩ ﺒﺎﻤﺭ ﻤﺒﺭﻡ ﻤﺤﺘﻭﻡ
ﺒﺭﺩﺍﺸﺘﻴﻡ ﻭ ﺁﻨﭽﻪ ﻋﻠﹼﺕ ﺍﺘﻔﺎﻕ ﻭ ﺍﺘﺤﺎﺩ ﻨﺎﺯل ﻭ ﺠﺎﺭﯼ

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
It is the hypothesis of this article that this passage records how,
after learning of the killing of the Banú Qurayzah, a desire formed in
the mind of Bahá’u’lláh as a child to be the instrument of bringing
unity and harmony to the world and His description of how this
desire was realized through the rest of His life. In describing this life-
long process, Bahá’u’lláh has laid out four stages in the realization of
His desire. These four stages are separated by three expressions each
of which express the passing of a period of time, that may be short or
long: “tá án kih”, “ilá an”, and “va ba`d”. The above translation has
been laid out so as to emphasize and clarify these four stages.
The first stage is easy enough to identify since Bahá’u’lláh states
that it was in His childhood. The other three stages have to assessed
according to Bahá’u’lláh's description of them. In the last stage He
states that He “eliminated whatever had been the cause of suffering,
distress, and discord, and rained down the instruments of unity and
fellowship”. From among His writings, this description most closely
resembles the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and the Tablets that He revealed in Akka
after the Kitab-i Aqdas in which he outlined His social teachings;
Tablets such as Ishráqát, Tajalliyyát, the Tablet of the World and the
Book of the Covenant. In these Tablets Bahá’u’lláh writes about
those things which human beings must do to bring about peace and
unity. The most important of these Tablets have been published in a
volume called Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas.
The most difficult of these four phases to identify is the second
stage. With the mention of twelve days in this passage, it is tempting
to think of the Declaration by Bahá’u’lláh of His mission in the
Garden of Ridvan in 1863. However, a specific date is given for the
first of these twelve days: the “second of the month of birth”. It is
most likely that “birth” here refers to Bahá’u’lláh's own birth and
would thus be a reference to the month of Muharram in the Islamic
calendar. However, the twelve days of Ridván did not fall in
Muharram in 1863. There is a slight possibility that it refers to the
month of the birth of Prophet Muhammad. Although the term mevlid
is used in Turkish to designate the birth of the Prophet Muhammad
and the celebrations associated with it, the word mawlúd by itself
does not specifically refer to the birth of Muhammad in the Persian
usage, according to the dictionaries consulted by the present writer.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
It is usual to say mawlúd-i nabí. Occasionally the month of the
Prophet’s birth is called Rabí` al-Mawlúd, but the writer was unable
to find “Máh-i Mawlúd” referring to the month of the Prophet's
birth, except in Kurdish. But in any case the twelve days of Ridván
also did not fall during the month of the Prophet Muhammad’s birth
(Rabi` al-Avval) in the year 1863. So this reference to “twelve days”
in this Tablet cannot be a reference to the twelve days of Ridván.
If one turns to the description of what occurred during and after
these twelve days, one finds that what happened during the twelve
days is described as having three features. First, it was of a
sufficiently
important
nature
as
to
throw
Bahá’u’lláh’s
“comportment, speech and thought” into turmoil. Indeed the author
is unable to find any other occasion when Bahá’u’lláh expresses
Himself so strongly about His inner turmoil. Second, it gave tidings
of exaltation (`urúj). The word urúj may be significant in that it does
not just signify exaltation as a description of an elevated emotive
state but rather points to an elevation of a person's state. It is from
the same root as the word mi`ráj (the night ascent of the Prophet
Muhammad). In all it connotes a elevation in Bahá’u’lláh's spiritual
state. Third, following this event, the “ocean of utterance” (bahr-i
bayán) surged forth and “the effulgences (tajalliyyát) of the sun of
certitude dawned”. Both of these expressions “ocean of utterance”
(bahr-i bayán)” and “effulgences (tajalliyyát)” are used repeatedly in
the writings of Bahá’u’lláh to refer to His Manifestation and
Revelation.25 Thus this passage states that some episode occurred
which caused a great tumult within the self of Bahá’u’lláh, which
caused an elevation in His state and after which He began to reveal
verses. All of these point to Bahá’u’lláh's Siyáh Chál experience as
being the episode that is being referred to here. This experience which
He variously describes as quoted above led to a tumult within Him, it
led to an elevation of His spiritual state — He was wakened to His
role as the Manifestation of God (as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes this26);
and after this, He began to reveal verses — the Rashh-i `Amá poem in
the Siyáh Chál and all of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh during the
Baghdad period.
This then leaves the third stage in this passage to be studied. The
explanation seems clear from the first words of this passage. The
words say: “Until (ilá an) it culminated in the moment (or time) of

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh
Manifestation (hín-i zuhúr).” The moment or time of Revelation
appears to be a reference to the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh at the
Garden of Ridván in 1863. This is confirmed in the next sentence
where the phrase “that which God hath made the source of joy to all
mankind and the dawning-place of His bounty to all who are in
heaven and on earth” could well refer to the Manifestation of God
and the whole sentence says that Bahá’u’lláh attained to this state at
this point, which would again point to the events of the Garden of
Ridván.
We could therefore paraphrase this whole passage from the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh thus:
Bahá’u’lláh writes that reading the story of the sufferings and
killing of the Banú Qurayza filled Him with such sorrow that
He beseeched God to bring about what would be the cause of
love and harmony among the people for the world. Then in
the Siyáh Chál, He had an experience that caused great
turmoil with Him and elevated His spiritual state. After this
He began to reveal verses. Later He openly manifested
Himself in the Garden of Ridván. Finally he revealed the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas and then a series of Tablets in which he gave
all of the guidance necessary to eliminate the causes of
suffering, distress, and discord and to bring about unity and
fellowship, thus fulfilling what He had longed for in His
childhood.
If this interpretation of this passage of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh
is correct, then it gives us valuable new information about the birth
of the Mission of Bahá’u’lláh in the Siyáh Chál. We can now say that
the spiritual events that Bahá’u’lláh describes in the passages quoted
above as the appearance of the Maid of Heaven, the breezes of the
All-Glorious wafting over Him, or something flowing from the
crown of His head over His breast like a mighty torrent, which
signalled the birth of His Prophetic Mission, the beginning of His
mission as a Manifestation of God, occurred repeatedly over a twelve
day period from 2 Muharram to 13 Muharram 1269, which equates to
16 October to 27 October 1852 A.D. or 1 `Ilm to 12 `Ilm 9 B.E.
There are a number of things to note with regard to this finding.
First, we can eliminate the slight possibility that the word mah-i

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
mawlúd (month of the birth) refers to the month of the birth of the
Prophet Muhammad. Whether taking the Shí`í date of 17 Rabí` I or
the Sunní date of 12 Rabí` I, neither of these dates falls within the
period that Bahá’u’lláh was in the Siyáh Chál. Second, this event is
placed just after the start of the Islamic year 1269, thus fulfilling the
words of Shaykh Ahmad that the mystery of this Cause would be
revealed after the year 1268:
The Mystery of this Cause must needs be made manifest, and
the Secret of this Message must needs be divulged. I can say
no more, I can appoint no time. His Cause will be made
known after Hin (68) (i.e., after a while). [GPB 97]
And the references by the Báb to “after Hin” and to the “Year Nine”:
“In the year nine,” He, referring to the date of the advent of
the promised Revelation, has explicitly written, “ye shall
attain unto all good.” “In the year nine, ye will attain unto
the presence of God.” And again: “After Hin (68) a Cause
shall be given unto you which ye shall come to know.” “Ere
nine will have elapsed from the inception of this Cause,” He
more particularly has stated, “the realities of the created
things will not be made manifest. All that thou hast as yet
seen is but the stage from the moist germ until We clothed it
with flesh. Be patient, until thou beholdest a new creation.
Say: 'Blessed, therefore, be God, the most excellent of
Makers!'” “Wait thou,” is His statement to Azim, “until nine
will have elapsed from the time of the Bayan. Then exclaim:
'Blessed, therefore, be God, the most excellent of Makers!'”
[GPB 29]
It is also of significance that, although Baha’u’llah was in the Siyáh
Chál from late August 1852, Shoghi Effendi began the Holy Year to
commemorate the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh's experience in the Siyáh
Chál in October 1952 and closed the Holy Year in October 1953
(which corresponds to the centenary of the “Year Nine”, the Islamic
year 1269).27

Two Episodes from the Life of Bahá’u’lláh


NOTES
1 All distances in this article are given as the straight line between the two
places. The actual distance travelled would be more, sometimes much
more. I am grateful to Bijan Masumian for his comments on this paper.
2 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl's Narrative of the Early Days of the
Bahá’í Revelation (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970), p. 301.
3 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 298-300.
4 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 347-8.
5 ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq-Khávarí (ed.), Má'idih-yi Ásmání (9 vols., Tehran:
Mu’assisih–yi Millí-yi Matbú`at-i Amrí, 106 BE/1950) vol. 5, pp. 170-71.
6 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 326.
7 Asadu'lláh Fádil Mázandarání, Asrár al-Áthár, (5 vols., Tehran: Mu’assisih–
yi Millí-yi Matbú`at-i Amrí, 124-29 B.E), vol. 1, pp.140-41; Asadu'lláh
Fádil Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, vol. 3 ([Tehran]: n.p., n.d.), p. 112.
8 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 345.
9 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 349-53.
10 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 369-72.
11 Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idih-yi Ásmání, vol. 7, p. 127.
12 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 323.
13 Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idih-yi Ásmání, vol. 5, pp. 169-71.
14 Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, vol. 3, p. 217.
15 Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idih-yi Ásmání, vol. 7, pp. 126-7; ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd
Ishráq-Khávarí, Qamus-i Iqan, vol. 2 (Tehran: Mu’assisih–yi Millí-yi
Matbú`at-i Amrí, 128 BE/1971), pp. 812-3; Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq,
vol. 3, pp. 216-7.
16 ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq-Khávarí, Aqdáh al-Faláh (2 vols. 130-132
B.E./1974-1976) vol. 1, p. 40.
17 Ishráq-Khávarí, Má’idih-yi Ásmání, vol. 5, pp . 169-71.
18 Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 323.
19 Dr Iraj Ayman informed me (in a telephone conversation on 1 January
2019) that Mr. Abu’l-Qásim Afnán, when he had just returned from a
pilgrimage visit to the Holy Land, informed him that he had an
opportunity to read the manuscript of the materials that Nabil had
written for the second volume of his Narratives. He had photocopied and
brought for Dr Ayman some pages in which was an account of the
friendly relationship between Bahá’u’lláh and Mírzá Majíd Áhí; that they

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


had gone horseback riding together and, while they were riding, one of
their people reached them on horseback to give them the news that was
received from Tehran. He called on them and in Mazandarani dialogue
said “Mardi bemardeh” i.e. Mohammad Shah has passed away. I have not
however seen this text.
20 MBW 124
21 Moojan Momen, The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944: Some
Contemporary Western Accounts (Oxford: George Ronald, 1981), pp.
134-36.
22 SLH para. 1.6-1.7. It is not immediately obvious from the context of this
passage that it relates to Bahá’u’lláh's experience in the Siyah Chal, but
Shoghi Effendi describes it as such in God Passes By (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, rev. ed. 1995), pp.101-2.
23 GPB 102.
24 Fádil Mázandarání, Asrár al-Áthár vol. 2, pp. 17-18; Ishráq-Khávarí,
Má’idih-yi Ásmání, vol. 7, pp. 136.
25 The occurrences of these two expressions with this meaning are too
numerous to list here comprehensively. A few examples of each will be
given here: “Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may
unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its
depths.” (Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992),
v. 182, p. 85). “O Shaykh! I swear by God! The River of Mercy floweth,
and the Ocean of Utterance surgeth, and the Sun of Revelation shineth
forth resplendent.” (Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988), p. 142). For “tajallí”, there
is the whole of the Tablet known as Tajalliyát, where each of the sections
of the Tablet is described as a “tajallí” (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed
after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978), pp. 47-55).
See also: Briefly, there hath been revealed in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán (Book of
Certitude) concerning the Presence and Revelation (tajallí) of God that
which will suffice the fair-minded. (ESW 118).
26 SAQ 95-6.
27 MBW 40, 52

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí
Writings
Vahid Rafati
trans. Adib Masumian
Foreword by the Translator
What follows is my translation of Vahid Rafati’s Qá’im-Maqám
Faráhání dar Áthár-i-Bahá’í, originally published in Safíniy-i-‘Irfán,
Daftar-i-Hizhdahum [no. 18], 2015, pp. 268–293. This article
constitutes the most comprehensive survey of references to the
Qá’im-Maqám in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
produced to date.
While rendering this article into English, I elected not to retain
some of Rafati’s technical discussions of certain terms — discussions
which occur in both the body of his article, and also in some of his
endnotes — as this would have benefited only the Persian-speaking
audience of his original article. These enlightening explanations of
certain terms, however, naturally informed the way I ultimately
translated them. For instance, immediately after quoting a letter from
the Qá’im-Maqám in which he uses the word gúdih, Rafati explains
that this word means “body” in Azerbaijani. Rather than preserving
the word in transliteration as gúdih, and following it with a
translation of Rafati’s helpful explanation, I chose to incorporate his
explanation into my translation of the word by simply rendering it as

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
“body.” Much of this commentary by Rafati, therefore, has been
preserved in my translation of his article by way of sensible
incorporation.
Beyond
these
instances,
Rafati
offers
other
explanations that I have relegated to the endnotes to preserve the
flow of the main article itself.
In Persian, the Qá’im-Maqám’s name is often written as Mírzá
Abu’l-Qásim Qá’im-Maqám Faráhání, or, as is the case with the title
of this article, simply Qá’im-Maqám Faráhání. Such renderings
appear to indicate that “Qá’im-Maqám,” which was his title, is
generally treated as part of his name. For the sake of clarity, I have
recast all instances of “Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Qá’im-Maqám Faráhání”
where they occur in the original Persian to “Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim
Faráhání, the Qá’im-Maqám.” I have, however, chosen to leave
“Qá’im-Maqám Faráhání” as is, since it is clearly an abbreviation of
his full name and can thus be read as an epithet which represents it.
The reader should be aware that all translations of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
words in this article — as well as those of Bahá’u’lláh, with the
exception of the passage from His Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih — are mine,
and are thus provisional renderings.
I am exceedingly grateful to my parents, Bijan and Farnaz
Masumian, for their suggested improvements to the general accuracy
of this translation, and also to Naeem Nabiliakbar for helping me to
understand the meaning of several words and expressions used by the
Qá’im-Maqám in those passages from his letters which Rafati has
quoted in his article.
— Adib Masumian
— — — — —
Introduction
In this article, a brief account of Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Faráhání, the
Qá’im-Maqám, will first be given, and a number of primary sources
on his writings and the details of his life will be presented. Passages
from research and articles on the Qá’im-Maqám that have been
included in Bahá’í books and other publications will also be
reproduced in a way that follows the discussion of the

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
aforementioned subjects. In the next section, this article will offer a
sample of those Writings from Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that
extol the virtues, celebrate the praise, and enumerate the most
excellent qualities of the Qá’im-Maqám, and which the present
author has deemed appropriate to share. Lastly, statements from the
Qá’im-Maqám himself that have been quoted or cited in the Bahá’í
Writings will be presented for the dear reader’s perusal.
Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Faráhání, the Qá’im-Maqám
In the spheres of Iranian literature and politics, Mírzá Abu’l-
Qásim Faráhání, the Qá’im-Maqám, ranks among the most august of
the men who lived during the Qájár era. Abu’l-Qásim was the son of
‘ˆsá Faráhání, who also held the title of “Qá’im-Maqám.” Abu’l-
Qásim was born in 1779, and was killed in the Nigáristán garden of
ˇihrán in 1835. In 1821, while in Tabríz, he became a minister under
‘Abbás Mírzá, and in the early autumn of 1822, he was given the title
of Qá’im-Maqám. Following the death of Fat˙-‘Alí Sháh, the Qá’im-
Maqám prepared the means for Mu˙ammad Sháh’s accession to the
throne, and was then appointed his prime minister. In the realm of
politics, the Qá’im-Maqám was a worthy and experienced man who
was favorably disposed towards reformist ideals. It is for this reason
that, with time, he became the object of the envy of those around
him, and especially of his political rivals, including Óájí Mírzá Áqásí.
Eventually, he was brutally put to death at the age of 58 [sic],1 and
was then buried in the shrine of Sháh ‘Abdu’l-‘Aẓím in the city of
Rey.2
Beyond his political pursuits, when it comes to the field of Persian
poetry and literature in general — whether composed in verse or in
prose — the Qá’im-Maqám is regarded as one of the greatest
littérateurs, orators, and writers of the Qájár era. He composed his
poetry under the pen name “Thaná’í,” and pioneered a style of
Persian prose that was simple, unaffected, and novel — a style that
was all his own. The concision of his sentences, the elegance and
sweetness of his diction, the omission of anything superfluous from
his speech, the brevity he observed in his writing, and the special
attention he devoted to literary witticisms when setting forth his
points — all these are accounted as among the most salient features of
the style employed by the Qá’im-Maqám in his prose. His was a

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
mellifluous kind of prose that has come to occupy a rank of
incontestable and abiding significance in the realm of literature.
Indeed, the qualities that characterized the Qá’im-Maqám’s prose
have ultimately influenced the compositional style of the writers who
succeeded him.

Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Faráhání, the Qá’im-Maqám
A compilation of the Qá’im-Maqám’s writings has been published
under the title Munsha’át-i-Qá’im-Maqám [“The Compositions of
the Qá’im-Maqám”], and a collection of his poetry has also been
published.3 Various treatments of the political life and literary works
of the Qá’im-Maqám have been produced to date. Sources for
biographical accounts of the Qá’im-Maqám can be found in Farhang-
i-Sukhanvarán [“An Encyclopedia of Orators”], vol. 1, p. 201. In
addition, a biographical account of the Qá’im-Maqám — as well as
the most significant sources on the details of his life and his literary
works — have been published in Dá’iratu’l-Ma‘árif-i-Tashayyu‘ [“The

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
Encyclopedia of Shí‘ism”], vol. 12, p. 544. Likewise, articles on the
Qá’im-Maqám that have appeared in Iranian publications have been
reproduced in the volumes of Fihrist-i-Maqálát-i-Fársí [“The Index of
Persian Articles”]. Zindigíy-i-Síyásí va Adabíy-i-Qá’im-Maqám [“The
Political and Literary Lives of the Qá’im-Maqám”], written by Mír-
Óusayn Yikrangíyán and published in ˇihrán by Intishárát-i-‘Ilmí in
1955 — as well as Qá’im-Maqám-Námih [“A Compendium on the
Qá’im-Maqám”], prepared by Mu˙ammad-Rasúl Daryágasht and
published in ˇihrán by Intishárát-i-‘Ilmí va Farhangí in 1998, and
which includes several articles and transcripts of talks from Iranian
researchers — are considered the most important available sources for
studying the life and writings of the Qá’im-Maqám. One transcript
of a talk given by Jahángír Qá’im-Maqámí — entitled Maráji‘ va
Manábi‘-i-Ta˙qíq
dar
báriy-i-Qá’im-Maqám
[“References
and
Sources for Research on the Qá’im-Maqám”], and published in
Qá’im-Maqám-Námih (pp. 126–136) — offers sources for the
biographical details, the literary pursuits, the personal life, the
beliefs, and the administrative and political affairs of the Qá’im-
Maqám.
As for Bahá’í works on the subject, an article entitled “The Prince
of the City of Statesmanship and Literary Accomplishment” by Dr.
Nosratullah Mohammad Hosseini has been published in the
nineteenth year of the Áhang-i-Badí‘ [“The New Melody”] periodical,
no. 9, November/December 1964, issue no. 213, pp. 305–307, and an
article entitled “A Remembrance of Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim Faráhání, the
Qá’im-Maqám” by Ezzatollah Ghaemmaghami has also been
published in the Payám-i-Bahá’í [“The Bahá’í Message”] magazine, no.
263, October 2001, pp. 39–45. Additionally, ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-
Khávarí has provided a brief account of the Qá’im-Maqám’s life and
writings in Mu˙á∂irát [“Conversations”], vol. 2, pp. 928–934, and
Fá∂il Mázandarání has also included a concise discussion of the
Qá’im-Maqám’s life and the members of his family in ¸uhúru’l-Óaqq
[“The Manifestation of Truth”], vol. 8, pp. 267–278.
References to Qá’im-Maqám Faráhání in the
Bahá’í Writings
Now that the essential points concerning the biographical
accounts and sources for the study of the life of the Qá’im-Maqám

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
have been discussed, those Bahá’í Writings which contain remarks
from Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in praise of the Qá’im-Maqám
will be presented below for the dear readers.
In His Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih [“Words of Paradise”], Bahá’u’lláh
states:
O people of God! Beseech ye the True One — glorified be His
Name — that He may graciously shield the manifestations of
dominion and power from the suggestions of self and desire
and shed the radiance of justice and guidance upon them.
His Majesty Mu˙ammad Sháh, despite the excellence of his
rank, committed two heinous deeds. One was the order to
banish the Lord of the Realms of Grace and Bounty, the
Primal Point [the Báb]; and the other, the murder of the
Prince
of
the
City
of
Statesmanship
and
Literary
Accomplishment [the Qá’im-Maqám].
The faults of kings, like their favors, can be great.4
With reference to the aforementioned remarks, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
written the following in one of His Tablets to Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qá’im-
Maqámí:5
ˇihrán
To Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qá’im-Maqámí, upon him be the glory of
the All-Glorious
He is God
O you who are the scion of the Prince of the City of
Statesmanship
and
Literary
Accomplishment,
and
are
descended from the ruler of the realms of reason and
understanding! It has been some time since I last conversed
and discussed inner secrets with you. Now, without
premeditation, I have begun to write this letter, for I was
suddenly reminded of that face and temperament of yours,
and am apprised of the services you are rendering in the
Cause. You are indeed firm in your belief with the utmost

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
conviction, and serve the Cause with all your might. No
ingenious method remains that you have not employed to
secure the good-pleasure of God, and no strategy is there that
you have not executed to exalt His Word. In truth, you are
an illustrious descendant of your august ancestor, and unto
the lineage of that supremely righteous man, you are even as a
brilliant candle. We are deeply gladdened that that family has
laid an unshakable foundation, and built a mighty mansion,
the highest room of which reaches the loftiest heavens. At
such a sight the soul of that distinguished personage swells
with pride in the Abhá Kingdom. What can I say? For through
your sincere intentions, your prodigious efforts, your
reverence for the truth, and your servitude at the threshold
of God, that faithful friend exults with unbridled joy and
fervor. Upon you be the glory of the All-Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás

8 June 19196, 7

Similarly, the following has been recorded in another Tablet of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
To Dabír-i-Mu’ayyad, upon him be the glory of the All-
Glorious
He is God
O renowned Dabír! He Who is the Ever-Living, the
Almighty,8 has lauded the Prince of the City of Statesmanship
and Literary Accomplishment. This title has left behind traces
so astonishing as to have enraptured and dumbfounded
people of every stripe. That celebrated one of the Concourse
on High9 now appears resplendent as the shining moon, and is
even as the master of this world and of the next. Such a
bounty will manifest itself, through his descendants, in a
form as beauteous as roses and flowers.
And now, the Pen of the Covenant10 has addressed you as
Dabír-i-Mu’ayyad. It is my hope that you will be even as a

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
billowing wave of that ocean, and will discover the loftiest
summit. Upon you be the glory of the All-Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás

14 November 192111, 12

In another one of His Writings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated the
following:
He is God
The musk-laden message which you had written to your kind
father was read, word for word, with the utmost joy and
delight. I inhaled from the flower-garden of its themes and
the rose-bushes of its inner meaning a most pleasant
fragrance. It gave the glad-tidings of the triumph of the
Cause of God and heralded the exaltation of His Word. It
betokened, moreover, your firmness, your steadfastness, and
your ardent desire to serve God. Although you have decided
not to travel to Paris, I hope that you shall nonetheless attain
the station of Idrís, inasmuch as it has been revealed in the
Qur’án: “Verily, We uplifted him to a place on high.”13
Furthermore, I hope that your travels throughout the villages
in the vicinity shall inaugurate a myriad bounties. Blast the
trumpet, that that country may acquire new life from that
soul-sustaining breath. Thereby shall the fame of this
wondrous Cause stir both the East and the West.
You had written concerning the rugs of the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh. God willing, you will succeed in completing this
endeavor. It is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s greatest wish that the kindred
of the Prince of the City of Statesmanship and Literary
Accomplishment, the late Qá’im-Maqám, may all repose
beneath the shade of Him Who is the Ever-Living, the
Almighty, and become the means through which the Word of
God is exalted and His fragrances diffused. May each one of
them become the brilliantly burning candles of every
assemblage, and the blossoming hundred-petaled roses of
every garden.

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
I feel the utmost love towards you, and was delighted to
receive the portrait of the late Qá’im-Maqám you sent me.
That portrait now hangs in my bedroom. Every morning
when I wake from my slumber, my eyes fall upon it.
Consider, then, how great is my fondness for him, inasmuch
as the Ancient Beauty14 — may my life be a sacrifice for His
loved ones — felt unreserved loving-kindness for that
outstanding personage, and always spoke highly of him. Upon
you be the glory of the All-Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás15, 16
The following has been recorded in yet another Writing of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá:
Delivered by way of Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh
Mírzá Óabíbu’lláh — a descendant of the Qá’im-Maqám, who
abides in Paradise — upon him be the glory of God
O you who yearn for the threshold of that One Beloved! That
which you had written, as well as what was latent within your
radiant mind, have been seen and understood. The Ancient
Beauty harbored abundant favor and immense affection for
that family. Most of the time, He had some occasion to
mention the Qá’im-Maqám. In so doing, His face would be
wreathed in the evidences of cheerfulness, and this indicated
conspicuously the favor and tenderness of that Brilliant Star.
Now, praised be God, for the fruits of that tenderness are
becoming increasingly apparent with every passing day. Some
from that family have entered beneath the shade of the
blessed Tree; they have found new life from the living waters
that stream in the blissful Paradise, and been created anew.
The hope I have placed in the abounding grace of God is this
— that all the members of that family be inebriated with the
cup of the Covenant, and be moved, through the wondrous
melody of this divine springtime, to render fervent praise to
the Ancient Beauty.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
As to the question of your being here in these days, this is a
dangerous prospect. God willing, permission to that effect
shall be granted at the appropriate time. Upon you be
salutations and praise.17, 18
In another one of His Writings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
O servant of Bahá’u’lláh! Your message has arrived, and the
letter from Jináb-i-Qá’im-Maqámí was read, from beginning
to end, with careful attention. … Jináb-i-Qá’im-Maqámí
must follow the example of his august ancestor. At a time
when all the Qá’im-Maqám’s enemies in Persia were assailing
him, and when the Sháh himself had inwardly directed his ill
will and teeming wrath towards him, he never deplored his
situation. On a certain day, the late Mírzá [‘Abbás Núrí] said
to him, “Your enemies are determined to the utmost;
something must be done.” To this the Qá’im-Maqám
responded, “I know well that they are intent upon my
murder, and in the end this will undoubtedly come to pass.
Indeed, it is certain that I will be slain. You are aware that it
is within my power to exact vengeance upon the Sháh, but I
am not disloyal. I will continue to arise faithfully until my
final breath, and have left such treachery for the disloyal to
commit.” Behold the radiant acquiescence and exemplary
forbearance he demonstrated! It is my hope that Jináb-i-
Qá’im-Maqámí will likewise tread this path …19, 20
In a Tablet addressed to Jináb-i-Amín (Óájí Mírzá Abu’l-Óasan-i-
Amín), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written the following:
O trusted one21 of the Blessed Beauty!22 Your letter dated 12
August 1919 was received, and a brief reply is included
herewith.
Mírzá Áqá Khán Qá’im-Maqámí is a gem descended from his
august ancestor — a gleaming pearl enveloped in the embrace
of his majestic shell. He is a man of courage in every respect,
and a true servant of the Beloved.23

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
Similarly, in a Tablet addressed to Áqá Mírzá Áqá24 — the son of Áqá
Mírzá Buhlúl ‘Iráqí [Arákí], who was the grandson of the Qá’im-
Maqám — ’Abdu’l-Bahá has written the following:
O scion of that illustrious personage, and O descendant of
that peerlessly great one! … The Blessed Beauty — may my life
be a sacrifice for His loved ones — felt the utmost loving-
kindness for your august ancestor, and praised him in His
Tablets. He spoke constantly of the Qá’im-Maqám’s
distinguishing characteristics, and would always describe how
that celebrated personage was, in the thirteenth century of
the Islamic calendar,25 the ruler of the realm of statesmanship
and a writer without peer or parallel. The very act of
mentioning the Qá’im-Maqám was enough to wreathe His
face in manifest gladness, and this betokened clearly the
profound tenderness He felt towards him. Render thanks
unto God, for you have lighted his lamp, have made his
descendants the brilliantly burning candles of every
assemblage, and have secured for yourself an eternal place in
the Most Glorious Paradise …26, 27
There are likewise numerous instances in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s oral
discourses in which He recounted the virtues of the Qá’im-Maqám
with great acclaim. Among these is the following, which Mírzá
Ma˙múd Zarqání has recorded in his work entitled Badáyi‘u’l-Áthár
[“The Wondrous Traces”]:
… When the subject of Persia was mentioned, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
expressed His great loving-kindness for the late Qá’im-
Maqám. Among the things He said in his honor was that, if
the Qá’im-Maqám were still with us, the whole of Persia
would be revived.28, 29
Elsewhere in that same work, the following remarks of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
have also been recorded:
… That night, [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] described the capability and
insight of the Qá’im-Maqám, recounted the grave mistake
made by Mu˙ammad Sháh in ordering his execution, and
spoke extensively of the history of Persia. Among the words

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
He spoke were these: “Had they not killed the Qá’im-Maqám,
Persia would never have fallen into ruin, and had they heeded
the divine counsels, her ancient glory would not have been
cast to the wind.” He then stated: “We, of course, do not at
all involve ourselves in the political affairs of Persia. Had
this Cause, however, appeared in the midst of any one of the
peoples or nations of the West, that people would vaunt this
bounty over all the world.”30, 31
In an oral discourse which He delivered on 22 January 1916,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated the following concerning the Qá’im-Maqám:
Mírzá Abu’l-Qásim, the Qá’im-Maqám, was the foremost
man of Persia and a highly capable individual, so much so
that he influenced Fat˙-‘Alí Sháh to appoint Mu˙ammad Sháh
— his great-grandson — as the crown prince, rather than one
of his seventy sons. … Mu˙ammad Sháh put him to death, and
what he did was a terrible thing indeed. Had he not killed the
Qá’im-Maqám, Persia would now be superior to the nations
of today.32, 33
The Words of the Qá’im-Maqám in the Bahá’í
Writings
Beyond the characteristics and virtues of the Qá’im-Maqám that
have been mentioned in the Bahá’í Writings, a sample of which has
been included in the foregoing pages, a number of the Qá’im-
Maqám’s own statements have also been quoted and cited, both
directly and indirectly, in the Bahá’í Writings. In the lines that
follow, the exact words of the Qá’im-Maqám will first be
reproduced, and then those Bahá’í Writings which include quotes of
those remarks or allusions to them will be presented.
First, we have a letter which the Qá’im-Maqám wrote to his
father, Mírzá Buzurg,34 at the instruction of the crown prince,35 and
in which the Qá’im-Maqám reprimands the inhabitants of Tabríz.36
Among the Qá’im-Maqám’s remarks in this letter are the following:
... If he seeks37 to associate with men of supreme virtue,
know that such individuals as Óájí Fá∂ilí38 and Óájí ‘Abdu’r-

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
Razzáq Bayk-i-Kámilí39 reside in that city. They are sedulous
men, disinclined to indulge the whims of their appetite, who
subscribe to the exercise of reason, the pursuit of a proper
livelihood, and the observance of frugality. I take refuge with
God!40 The body of the mullá41 is the object of God’s ridicule.
However much you say to them, “Have you been filled?”,
they respond only with, “Is there yet more?”42 They are like
beasts of burden that wish only to eat and are loath to run —
the devourers of hay and the ravagers of barley …43
In a Tablet addressed to Áqá ‘Alí Najafábádí, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
written the following with reference to the remarks of the Qá’im-
Maqám:
ˇihrán
To Áqá ‘Alí Najafábádí, upon him be the glory of the All-
Glorious
He is God
O you who are firm in the Covenant! You had written that
the government has initiated legal proceedings on the pretext
of establishing justice, with the stated aim that the outcome
of these proceedings shall clearly distinguish the oppressor
from the oppressed. Such a course of action would be
sensible only if that government were not already apprised of
the truth, and this notwithstanding that it is plain as day unto
every statesman and minister that the friends of God are the
persecuted while the others are the persecutors. There can be
no doubt whatever that the true purpose of these proceedings
is to discount the importance of the matter, such that it may
come to be forgotten entirely, inasmuch as the government is
obliged to turn a blind eye to the actions of the oppressors,
and to regard these ferocious beasts and ravening animals
with favor. They imagine that, if justice were truly to be
established, some harm would be caused and a great uproar be
raised by these “beasts of burden that wish only to eat and are
loath to run” — in the words of the Qá’im-Maqám, “the
devourers of hay and the ravagers of barley.” Alas for them!

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Gracious God! Time and again has experience shown that such
people have naught to their name but flowing robes redolent
of the opulent court of Pharaoh, or prayer beads that
resemble the cords of a magician from a contemptible tribe.
Even as an afflictive nightmare have they descended upon this
hapless and despairing people, and imposed themselves as a
dreadfully weighty and unfortunate burden upon them. So
long as their influence endures, one may as well abandon the
thought of cultivating any virtue …44
Furthermore, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written the following in a Tablet
addressed to Áqá Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qá’im-Maqámí:
He is God
O you who are firm in the Covenant! The letter which you
had written to Áqá Siyyid Asadu’lláh has been perused. It was
replete with profound meaning and imbued with the utmost
sweetness, such that it brought a smile to my face. In the
words of the great Qá’im-Maqám, that man who has attained
unto the presence of his Lord, “The body of the mullá is the
object of God’s ridicule.” Such men have ever been “like
beasts of burden that wish only to eat and are loath to run —
the devourers of hay and the ravagers of barley”; but may
God have mercy on them, for they have now become the bane
of sweets. And yet, if they would only content themselves
with this indulgence, they would still be worthy of our
consideration. Such a prospect appears difficult, however,
when one realizes that such men exemplify this verse: “On the
Day We will say to Hell, ‘Have you been filled?’ and it will
say, ‘Is there yet more?’”45 Therefore, you must pledge to give
them sweets and rice from time to time to keep them quiet.
I hope that in all your affairs you will be confirmed and
successful, and that assistance from the Most Glorious
Paradise will be vouchsafed constantly unto you …46, 47
Additionally, in a Tablet addressed to Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Báqir
Khán Shírází and dated 7 October 1919, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written the
following:

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
O companion of my travels! … The great Qá’im-Maqám has
said, “The body of the mullá is the object of God’s ridicule,”
and that they, moreover, are “like beasts of burden that wish
only to eat and are loath to run — the devourers of hay and
the ravagers of barley.” These are the words of the Qá’im-
Maqám; they have nothing to do with me. You must consider
this point carefully …48, 49
Second, in a letter to Mírzá Buzurg Núrí,50 minister to Imám-Virdi
Mírzá,51 the Qá’im-Maqám has written the following:
An old victim of pillage has made this plea for justice: Alas
for these Afshárs!52 Alas for this people! Alas for that
moment!53 And yet, all this is nothing. Alas for the exacting
of fines, the edicts of plunder, the Qájár tax-collectors, and
the lack of all recourse but to hand over one’s possessions!
May I find refuge from knives and shears! They ordered two
heads, we gave them four; one they pronounced, two did we
send …54
The phrase of the Qá’im-Maqám, “the Qájár tax-collectors, and
the lack of all recourse but to hand over one’s possessions,” has been
cited and quoted in various forms, both directly and indirectly, in the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In one of His Tablets to Óájí Áqá
Mu˙ammad ‘Aláqihband, He has written the following:
O you who have been enraptured by the fragrances of God! …
In these days, that Turkish tax-collector — namely, Ibn-i-
Abhar — has also arrived. In these past few days, he has made
demands on several occasions. In truth, this tax-collector has
put up a difficult resistance. The great Qá’im-Maqám
complained of “the Qájár tax-collectors, and the lack of all
recourse but to hand over one’s possessions,” but he knew
nothing of the Turkish tax-collectors and them that make
indisputably well-founded demands! For the time being, he
has granted me a brief period to accede to his demands; let us
see what will happen next! I have, of course, made all these
remarks in jest to gladden you …55, 56

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has likewise written the following in one of His other
Tablets:
Mashhad
Delivered by way of Mírzá A˙mad
To Áqá Siyyid Áqáy-i-Óakím, upon him be the glory of the
All-Glorious
O you who are firm in the Covenant! Your letter was
received. You requested a prayer supplicating forgiveness for
your great father. Indeed, you have coveted a new Tablet
from me! Strange as this is, I will obey your command
nonetheless. What choice do I have? In former times, men
spoke of “the Qájár tax-collectors, and the lack of all
recourse but to hand over one’s possessions,” and we now
speak of the compelling ruler and the subduing commander! I
have, therefore, begun to write this Tablet, that it may bring
joy and gladness to that pure heart of yours.
Day and night, tearfully and restlessly, this servant
supplicates the All-Merciful every morn and eve to cheer the
friends of Khurásán, to crown their endeavors with success,
and to enable them to drink their fill from the chalice of
limitless grace, bounty, and gladness. This is my highest
aspiration and my greatest hope, and in its fulfillment lie my
joy, my delight, and my triumph.
Convey on my behalf, with abounding ardor, the most
wondrous and most glorious greetings unto Jináb-i-Karbilá í
Óasan.57, 58
In yet another one of His Tablets, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written the
following:
Delivered by way of Jináb-i-Amín, upon him be the glory of
the All-Glorious
Hamadán

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
To Óakím Hárún, upon him be the glory of the All-Glorious
He is God
O refined and illustrious personage! I had written a Tablet to
you just two days ago, but I have now received a letter from
Jináb-i-Amín in which He has requested a new Writing. What
can be done? It resembles the well-known adage: “the Qájár
tax-collectors, and the lack of all recourse but to hand over
one’s possessions.” I say this in jest, of course, inasmuch as
every request from Jináb-i-Amín is born of his sincere
devotion to the Cause of resplendent light. Thus, I must
consent to his request, though that which I write be brief in
length. Upon you be the glory of the All-Glorious.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás

Haifa

8 December 191959, 60

In another one of His Writings, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated the
following:
Káshán
To the father of Áqá Mihdí, Áqá Ghulám-‘Alí, upon him be
the glory of the All-Glorious
O you who are firm in the covenant! It has been some time
since I last wrote to you. God forbid that this has saddened
you, for I have not forgotten you. You are ever enveloped in
my embrace, but the storm has raged with such unremitting
turbulence that it has prevented me from writing or
conversing with you. At present, that noble son of yours,
Áqá Mihdí, is with me, and he bears truthful testimony to my
words. Indeed, at this very moment, a sweet smile adorns his
face as he surely thinks to himself:
Advanced in age though my father may be, yet still does
he brim with ability; potent is he to mount and descend,
whether on land or in the sea. At one time, he goes to
Káshán; at another, he visits Jawshaqán.61 At one

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
moment, he goes to Qamßar,62 where armed with the
mace of cogent argument and the sword of conclusive
proof, he rushes valiantly into the battlefields of
debate. At still another time, he travels to ˇihrán, and
at yet another, he journeys to Qum. He is like unto the
stars that revolve in the heavens.
Thus, one would need more ink to add to the exploits already
recounted here! Yet all this is neither here nor there.
The mother of Áqá Mihdí is simple-hearted; she is a noble
woman, ever ready to serve in any way. She, therefore,
deserves greetings and salutations, and is worthy of favors
and kindness.
O Ghulám-‘Alí! What am I to do with this tax-collector, who
resembles Naw-Rúz ‘Alí?63 I have no debt, and yet am I
indebted. I am under no obligation to pay, and yet must I pay
tribute. One is reminded of the well-known saying: “the
Qájár tax-collectors, and the lack of all recourse but to hand
over one’s possessions.” At any rate, somehow or another, I
have set aside all my other affairs for the moment, and am
now giving you my attention — but it was no trouble for me
to do this. Áqá Mihdí has related the following to me with
the utmost sweetness:
There are others who have recently been guided aright,
and my father is interceding on their behalf. They wish
for a special Tablet to be sent to them, and my father
has remarked that if I fail to communicate this to you,
he will scold me and make quick work of me. Reply,
then, to his request, and deliver me from this rebuke
and censure!
Left with no other choice, I have taken to writing this letter,
and seek the favors of God. I hope that you are well; indeed,
my hope is that you are happy and content, and that your
mind is keen. May you be the cause of joy and gladness unto
all the friends in the vicinity, and the means through which
they are kept alert and vigilant. Show tenderness unto the

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
mother of Áqá Mihdí, and strive constantly to cheer her
heart, that she may not feel despondent in her separation
from her son, and instead give thanks unto the One True God
that the apple of her eye renders constant service to the
threshold of the Star of the East and the West. Convey unto
all the friends the abundant greetings of this kind servant of
all humanity.64
In another Writing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the following is recorded:
He is God
O you who raise the cry of the Covenant! Even as a Turkish
colonel or an Azerbaijani soldier, waiting to be repaid the
debt he is owed, Jináb-i-Óájí is here. I, like a poor borrower
in arrears, am at a loss, and wonder to myself how I might
possibly satisfy this debt — of which every túmán accrues a
monthly thousandfold interest — for with every passing
month, the Óájí adds extra “interest” to the Tablets he seeks
from me. Owing to my demanding preoccupations, he had
granted me a respite from this debt for a time, and this was
most sensible of him. Now, however, even as a creditor
unsettled by the indigence of the debtor, he has arrived
without warning, wishing all of a sudden to collect five
documents, and refusing to leave until he obtains them. The
difference between the Óájí and an Azerbaijani soldier is that
the latter lies in wait behind the door, whereas the former
comes into the room and demands that his debt be paid. At
any rate, among the documents to which he referred in
writing is one that bears your name.65 We had no choice but
to pay this enormous debt — a debt to which compound
interest, exorbitant to the point of usury, is attached.
Jináb-i-Óájí has inquired about your duty, and that duty is
this: that under all conditions, you sacrifice yourself for the
Cause of God — that in your vicinity, you spread the divine
fragrances, and make firm the hearts in the Covenant of God.
This is the fruit of existence, as well as the station of Áqá
Mírzá Ma˙múd — and it would be difficult for me to write

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
his name without also writing “Mírzá,” as he would accuse me
of blasphemy for so doing.
Leave them to their vain imaginings, and let them wander in
their heedlessness. Say: “In the name of God is its course and
its anchorage.”66 Unfurl the sail, and set the ship on its course
upon the sea of servitude to Bahá. This, in truth, is “a praise-
worthy station”;67 it is “an all-encompassing shadow,”68 “a
gift which is given,”69 and “a place to which to be led.”70, 71, 72
In yet another Writing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the following is written:
He is God
To Áqá Mu˙ammad-Háshim, upon him be the glory of the
All-Glorious
He is God
Áqá Mu˙ammad-Háshim! Even as a creditor who incessantly
solicits the money he is owed, Áqá Mihdí is ever present and
well apprised, and he implores me to write him this letter.
Although my preoccupations are endless, I seek refuge from
this tax-collector who hails from Káshán, and not Azerbaijan
— for the Azerbaijanis will say a harsh word or two in
Turkish and then grant me a respite, whereas this tax-
collector makes his requests more mildly. And yet, his
entreaties are constant, and leave me with no opportunity to
respond. At times he voices his desire openly, while at others
he conveys it with a glance. At one moment he will state it
explicitly, and at the next he will communicate it with
subtlety.
At any rate, by some means or other, he has induced me to
write this letter. Consider, then, how dear you are to Áqá
Mihdí, and how delectable your remembrance is to the palate
of this servant, that in spite of my many other
responsibilities, I have taken to writing this letter that is
sweet as sugar. You must strive, then, and bend every effort
to serve the friends day and night. In your service to the

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
bondslaves of the Blessed Beauty — may my life be a sacrifice
for them — you must be the lowliest of servants, that in so
doing you may become the pride of all the kings and rulers of
the earth.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás73

In another Writing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the following is recorded:
Nayríz
To the sister-in-law of Áqá Siyyid Mihdí, Amatu’lláh Bagum,
and her daughter, ‘A†a’íyyih — upon them both be the glory
of the All-Glorious
God is the All-Glorious
O handmaid of God! Night has fallen, and it is now dark.
With a thin pen, this servant has taken to writing this letter
for your sake. What recourse have I? Áqá Siyyid Mihdí makes
repeated entreaties, and his power surpasses that of the
Turkish tax-collectors. What can I do?74
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás75

Third, in a letter to Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, the Qá’im-Maqám has
written the following:
What good fortune is this! — that after the passage of some
time, your letter, which included your amicable complaints
and encouraging counsels, has arrived, and added to my belief
in the endurance of our covenant of friendship.
At every moment when your musk-laden pen remembers
us
It rivals the reward bestowed by freeing two-hundred
slaves76
You had complained of my not having replied to your
encouraging correspondence with sincere letters of my own.
Have you still yet to realize that every one of your remarks is

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
the very truth, and a question that needs no answer? Should
you choose not to write a letter to your ardent servant, and
withhold from your hopeful devotees the sprinklings of your
pearl-streaming pen, it would offend and provoke them to
great complaint. The same cannot be said of me; the less
trouble I go to, the better. It behooves the fair-faced to
flaunt their beauty, while the hideous deserve only to be hid
away …77
With reference to the above text, in which the Qá’im-Maqám
states that, “every one of your remarks is the very truth, and a
question that needs no answer,” Bahá’u’lláh has written the following
in one of His Tablets:
He is God, exalted be He
Though, in the words of a speaker from former times, the
letters this servant hath sent to thee are ostensibly questions
that need no answer and are replete with wrongful words —
inasmuch as numerous Tablets have heretofore been sent to
thee, and thou hast evidently yet to peruse even one of them
— yet methinks some expedient reason doth exist for which
thou hast withheld thy response. This notwithstanding, we are
content with what God hath ordained for us, and in Him do
we place our trust. He, in truth, is the best of helpers and the
most excellent of guardians. At any rate, this prisoner hath
taken up thy time, and will thus conclude His utterance by
reminding thee that We have ever been contented with even a
single piece of news from thee, but that the messenger who
relateth this news hath now been kept out, and the bounty of
hearing it unable to reach Us.
God grant that thou art, at all times, persisting in perpetual
joy and gladness, and art protected — within the shelter of
the safekeeping of the All-Merciful — from such harm as the
world and its peoples can inflict. We remember constantly
thy mother, as well as the other members of thy household.78,

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
Likewise, in a Tablet to Jináb-i-Muß†afá Effendí, Bahá’u’lláh has
written the following:
Praise be to God, Who hath caused the fruits of utterance to
be sent down from the firmament of inner meaning. … For
some time now, the liars and slanderers of this area have
taken to broaching certain subjects, inasmuch as the people
here are unaware of this most lofty Path. Whatever remark is
made by an ignorant one, that remark have these people
straightway accepted, and in this behavior they continue to
persist. The enemies of this Cause are many; whatsoever these
Persians say with regard thereto is accounted as the truth, and
considered
questions
that
need
no
answer.
This
notwithstanding that all are aware that, apart from a mere
few, most Persians are given to the utmost cruelty,
oppression, trickery, and deceit …80, 81
In another Tablet dated June 1880 and revealed for Jináb-i-ˇabíb,
Bahá’u’lláh has written as follows:
A praise which is exalted above the tongues of all creation
beseemeth the most holy court of the Desired One, Who hath
made the Primal Word82 to be the Fountainhead of the waters
of life unto the peoples of the earth. … The Most Great
Branch83 — may My life, Mine essence, and My very being be
a sacrifice for the dust which his noble footsteps have
trodden — left for Beirut some time ago. I will defer My
response to the letter thou didst send until such time as He
hath returned. Furthermore, that which thou hadst said in thy
reply was the very truth, and a question that needeth no
answer …84, 85
In a Tablet dated October 1885 and addressed to Mírzá Maqßúd,
Bahá’u’lláh has written the following:
Praise and thanksgiving befit the King of Names, Who hath
bestowed mystic pearls from the ocean of truth. … It hath
been said that this world was created through the letters B
and E. Unto them that cherish the truth, this “B” representeth
the remembrance of the friends, and the “E” signifieth the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
gift of limitless love.86 That which thou hadst written was the
very truth, and a question that needeth no answer …87, 88
In a Tablet addressed to Ibn-i-Aßdaq, Bahá’u’lláh has written as
follows:
Concerning that which thou hadst written with regard to the
work of teaching the Faith, as well as the consideration given
to certain surrounding areas by some of the friends for that
purpose — this is the very truth, and a question that needeth
no answer, for not long ago this very matter was mentioned
repeatedly by the Tongue of Grandeur.89 Likewise, this
servant wrote, as bidden, to some of the friends, admonishing
the firm and steadfast souls to concentrate their teaching
efforts on certain surrounding areas …90, 91
Fourth, in a letter to an unknown addressee, the Qá’im-Maqám
writes:
You had inquired as to how I am faring. What is it you ask of
a soul stricken with separation, whose body is here but whose
beloved is in ‘Iráq?92 Think not that I can be patient without
you. I swear by God that without you, my dearly beloved,
Tabríz afflicts me with fever; indeed, the land of Azerbaijan
consumes me with flames of fire, for bereft of you, my
beloved, I am weary of life and living.
“O youth!” said a beloved to their lover
“Many a city have you seen in your travels
Then which of those cities is the best?”
“That city,” said the lover, “where the ravisher of hearts
resides.”93
Truly, remoteness from friends, and the distance between the
body and the one who gives it life, are not things to trifle
with. “What we stand for is hardly a plaything.”94 These are
the days of separation; they are nights not followed by
dawns. The pangs of remoteness are palpable, and the

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
strength to endure them is sapped. The pain of privation is
present, and the way to its balm is barred.
Deliver me, O Lord, through Your consummate grace
From the abysmal depths of this fearsome place!
So much the better for me to seek from all-glorious God a
cure for this affliction — that through His grace, the ways of
separation may be annulled, and I might have the good
fortune of seeing you again.
That is all; farewell!95
The phrase “Tabríz afflicts me with fever; indeed, the land of
Azerbaijan consumes me with fire” mentioned in the above text also
appears, in poetic form, in one of the Qá’im-Maqám’s ghazals.96 The
following has been written on this subject in Ma’ákhidh-i-Ash‘ár, vol.
5, pp. 80–81:
In his handwritten notes, Mu˙ammad-‘Alí Fay∂í has observed
that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would typically recite this couplet from the
Qá’im-Maqám to commemorate the day of the Martyrdom
of the Báb:
Tabríz afflicts me with fever; with the blood of sorrow
do my lips overflow
How intense are the flames of fire from Azerbaijan
which consume my soul!
The above couplet is part of a poem, reproduced below, that the
Qá’im-Maqám wrote to complain of the government officials of
Tabríz:
A frenzied heart I’ve got and hidden therein such pain and
strife
That were I to conceal or reveal it I’d surely fear for my life
Tabríz afflicts me with fever; my lips spill plaints that could fill
a scroll

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
How intense are the flames of fire from Azerbaijan which
consume my soul!
Why from the heads of Arvanaq a hundred taunts and taints
should I withstand
When as my food and drink I’ve only a bit of its water and
land?
The unkind ones of Mihrán-Rúd have effaced my soul and
bloodied my heart
For of the hilly terrain of Líqván a tract of farmland’s my
paltry part
So oft must I importune my men who govern Sahlán and
Isfahlán
That you’d think I ask them to tend to the lands of Káshán and
Ißfahán!
From the king’s bountiful means the hamlet of Ni‘mat-Ábád
I’ve asked
For the hundred tokens of Shániján’s deadly wrath have
rendered me aghast
The foe-felling fighters of Tabríz who discharge their arms and
fire their guns
Have made every street to flood from all sides with my
countless petitioning ones
Every host’s in my hands — every fiery spark which upward
exalts
All steel’s as fragile and fine as silk in the face of their assaults
Should the regal edict be given me to spring from earth to
heaven
God knows I’m set ill at ease by its reaches that number seven
As for that churlish colonel who war with me he fain would
proclaim
Shame and disgrace would be mine for so much as uttering his
name!97

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings
The following footnote, which is included in an anthology of the
Qá’im-Maqám’s poems, discusses the names of the villages and towns
mentioned in the above ghazal:
Arvanaq and Mihrán-Rúd refer to two districts of Tabríz.
Líqván, Sahlán, Isfahlán, Ni‘mat-Ábád, and Shániján are
villages that once belonged to the Qá’im-Maqám, but were
seized by the government after he was executed.98


NOTES
1 Translator’s note: This appears to be a typographical error; if the
Qáʼim-Maqám was born in or around 1779 and executed in 1835, he
would have been about 55 or 56 at the time of his death.
2 Translator’s note: Now incorporated into the greater ˇihrán
metropolitan area.
3 Author’s note: Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-Maqám is among the works that was
published in ˇihrán, through the efforts of Jahángír Qáʼim-Maqámí, by
Intishárát-i-Ibn-i-Síná in 1958. Likewise, Díván-i-Ash‘ár-i-Qáʼim-Maqám
[“The Collected Poems of the Qáʼim-Maqám”] was published in ˇihrán as
a supplement to the tenth year of the Armaghán [“Gift”] magazine, and in
2001, it was published in ˇihrán, in full, by Intishárát-i-Avistá Faráhání.
This book features an extensive introduction that discusses the writings,
views, and details of the Qáʼim-Maqám’s life.
4 Author’s note: Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih has been published in Tablets of
Baháʼuʼlláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 57–80, and the excerpt
quoted here can be found on p. 65 of that collection. In Námih-háy-i-
Parákandiy-i-Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání [“The Scattered Letters of Qáʼim-
Maqám Faráhání”], p. 376, Jahángir Qá’im-Maqámi has written the
following concerning “Buzurg Núrí (Mírzá)”:
Buzurg Núrí (Mírzá)
His birth name was ‘Abbás, and he hailed from the village of Tákur. He
was the father of Áqá Mírzá Óusayn-‘Alí, better known as Baháʼuʼlláh,
the founder of the Baháʼí religion. Concerning Buzurg Núrí, the author

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


of Ashrafu’t-Taváríkh [“The Noblest of Histories”] has written, “He
was the possessor of all pens.”
Mírzá Buzurg served for a time as minister to Imám-Virdí Mírzá, chief
sentry to Fat˙-‘Alí Sháh, and governor of Qazvín, and likely also
served as minister to some of Fat˙-‘Alí Sháh’s other sons. At any rate,
he had a friendly relationship with the Qáʼim-Maqám, and this can be
inferred from several letters which the Qáʼim-Maqám wrote to Mírzá
Buzurg. It is apparently for this reason that Áqá Mírzá Óusayn-‘Alí, or
Baháʼuʼlláh, refers to the Qáʼim-Maqám in His Tajallíyát [recte:
Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih] as “The Prince of the City of Statesmanship
and Literary Accomplishment.”
5 Translator’s note: The great-grandson of the Qáʼim-Maqám and an
eminent Baháʼí. The present translator has recently finished translating a
biographical account of Mírzá Áqá Khán Qáʼim-Maqámí, which he hopes
to make available in due course.
6 Author’s note: Abu’l-Qásim, the Qáʼim-Maqám, had a son by the name
of Mírzá Mu˙ammad, who was the father of Mírzá Buhlúl Qáʼim-
Maqámí, who in turn was the father of Mírzá Áqá Khán Qáʼim-Maqámí,
the addressee of this Tablet. Mírzá Áqá Khán was the father of Manúhir
Khán Qáʼim-Maqámí, a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baháʼís of Iran who, along with the other members of that body, was
abducted on 21 August 1980. The fate of these individuals remains
unknown to this day.

A biographical account of Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qáʼim-Maqámí (Mírzá Áqá
Khán), which includes the many services he rendered throughout his
lifetime, has been written by Óasan Núshábádí and published in Áhang-i-
Badí‘ [“The New Melody”], year 28, nos. 9 & 10, November 1973–January
1974, pp. 18–39. A facsimile of the original, handwritten Tablet that
begins, “O you who are the scion of the Prince of the City of
Statesmanship and Literary Accomplishment…,” and has been reproduced
in this article, appears on p. 23 of the aforementioned article by
Núshábádí in Áhang-i-Badí‘. Other Tablets that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote to
Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qáʼim-Maqámí have been published in Maʼákhidh-i-Ash‘ár
dar Áthár-i-Baháʼí [“The Sources of Poetry Quoted in the Baháʼí
Writings”], vol. 2, p. 43, and ibid., vol. 3, pp. 197–8; the corresponding
facsimiles of the original, handwritten versions of these Tablets appear on
p. 27 and p. 31, respectively, of the aforementioned article by Núshábádí.
See also another Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressed to Qáʼim-Maqámí
published in Makátíb-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá [“The Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá”],
vol. 8, p. 64.

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings



[Translator’s note: Provisional English translations of all four Tablets
enumerated here by Rafati appear in an appendix to a complete rendering
of Núshábádí’s article, which the present translator has recently
completed and hopes to make readily available in due course.]

In one of His Tablets to Áqá Siyyid Mu˙ammad-Ri∂á, the son of Jinab-i-
Síná, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states the following concerning Mírzá Áqá Khán
Qáʼim-Maqámí:
O candle of that honored Síná! Your letter has arrived … Praise God,
Áqá Mírzá Áqá Khán, that kind friend, stands ever ready to serve. All
his endeavors are crowned with success and are watched over by the
Almighty. The Ancient Beauty, may my life be a sacrifice for His loved
ones, felt a special tenderness for the late Qáʼim-Maqám. Now, God be
praised, the tokens of that fondness and favor are clearly manifest, in
that the lineage of that great personage has produced so exalted a soul…

The text of the above Tablet has been published in the Iranian National
Baháʼí Archives series (INBA), vol. 84, pp. 399–401.
7 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
8 Translator’s note: Both of these titles refer to Baháʼuʼlláh.
9 Translator’s note: “The gathering of the Prophets and holy souls in the
next world or spiritual realm” (BBD, p. 216).
10 Translator’s note: A reference by ‘Abduʼl-Bahá to Himself, insofar as
He is known to Baháʼís as “the Center of the Covenant.”
11 Author’s note: “Dabír-i-Muʼayyad” is a reference to Mírzá Mu˙sin
Khán Na‘ímí. The Tablet for him reproduced here has been published in
INBA, vol. 88, p. 320.
12 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
13 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 19:57.
14 Translator’s note: A reference to Baháʼuʼlláh.
15 Author’s note: Idrís is mentioned in the Qurʼán as one who was
renowned for his eternal life, novel literary prowess, and knowledge of
sciences and divine wisdoms. The following description of him has been
revealed in Qurʼán 19:56–57: “And mention in the Book, Idrís; indeed, he
was a man of truth and a prophet, and We raised him to a high station.”
For more information on Idrís, refer to Dánish-Námiy-i-Qurʼán
[“Encyclopedia of the Qurʼán”], vol. 1, p. 182.

[Translator’s note: Idrís is likely the same person as the Biblical figure
Enoch. In His Law˙-i-Basí†u’l-Óaqíqih (“Tablet of the Uncompounded

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


Reality”), Baháʼuʼlláh states the following concerning Idrís: “The first
person who devoted himself to philosophy was Idrís. Thus was he named.
Some called him also Hermes. In every tongue he hath a special name. He
it is who hath set forth in every branch of philosophy thorough and
convincing statements. After him Bálinus derived his knowledge and
sciences from the Hermetic Tablets and most of the philosophers who
followed him made their philosophical and scientific discoveries from his
words and statements…” (TBAKA, p. 148, note 3).]

The matter of sending the portrait of the Qáʼim-Maqám appears to refer
to a request made by ‘Abduʼl-Bahá, which He mentions in a Tablet
addressed to Áqá Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qáʼim-Maqámí and dated 16 June 1921:
O you who are firm in the covenant! Your letter dated 29 March 1921
was received … If you can, send a pen-and-ink portrait of that
luminous personage — your illustrious forefather, the Qáʼim-Maqám.
Should this not be possible, then send whatever excellent image of him
you are able to procure, that I may hang it at the sacred threshold.
Although a portrait of him already exists here, its color has faded with
the passage of time. Should the image you intend to send be colored —
and if, moreover, the vividness of that color be enduring, and the
image itself been drawn with pen and ink — this would certainly be
preferable …

The text of the above Tablet has been published in Shar˙-i-Shahádat-i-
Jináb-i-Mírzá Ya‘qúb-i-Mutta˙idih [“An Account of the Martyrdom of
Mírzá Ya‘qúb Mutta˙idih”], pp. 61–63. It is evident from the Tablet
quoted above that the addressee of this Tablet, which alludes to the
“musk-laden message,” is Mírzá Áqáy-i-Qáʼim-Maqámí.
16 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
17 Author’s note: The identity of “Mírzá Óabíbu’lláh” and the way in
which he is related to the Qáʼim-Maqám are not entirely clear to me. It is
likely, however, that this name refers to Óabíbu’lláh Khán I˙tishám
Niẓám, the nephew of Mírzá Áqá Khán Qáʼim-Maqámí.
18 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
19 Author’s note: This Tablet — which was revealed for Áqá Siyyid
Asadu’lláh, who was residing in Port Sa‘íd at the time — has been
published in Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 224–225. “The late
Mírzá” is a reference to Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, the father of Baháʼuʼlláh.
20 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
21 Translator’s note: “Trusted one” literally being “Amín.”

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings


22 Translator’s note: A reference to Baháʼuʼlláh.
23 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
24 Translator’s note: A reference to Mírzá Áqá Khán Qáʼim-Maqámí.
25 Translator’s note: A period corresponding to 1785–1883 of the
Gregorian calendar.
26 Author’s note: A passage from this Tablet has been published in
Khúshih-háʼí az Kharman-i-Adab va Hunar [“Clusters from the Harvest of
Literature and Art”] (Landegg: Anjuman-i-Adab va Hunar, 1990), vol. 1,
p. 77.
27 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
28 Author’s note: Badáyi‘uʼl-Áthár, vol. 2, p. 299.
29 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
30 Author’s note: Ibid., p. 102.
31 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
32 Author’s note: Ra˙íq-i-Makhtúm, vol. 2, p. 636.

[Translator’s note: This passage can also be found on p. 392 of the
more readily available 2007 edition of this volume published by Baháʼí-
Verlag.]
33 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
34 Translator’s note: Not to be confused with Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, the
father of Baháʼuʼlláh. The father of the Qáʼim-Maqám, whose name was
Mírzá ‘ˆsá Faráhání, also happened to be known as Mírzá Buzurg, and
held the title of Qáʼim-Maqám before it was passed on to his son.
35 Translator’s note: This would have been ‘Abbás Mírzá. For more
information on him, refer to H. Busse, “ʿABBĀS MĪRZĀ QAJAR,”
Encyclopedia Iranica; available online here:
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/abbas-mirza-qajar
36 Translator’s note: The present translator is grateful to Vahid Rafati
and Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam for helping him to clearly understand the
meaning of this sentence.
37 Translator’s note: Rafati goes on to note that, in Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-
Maqám (ˇihrán: Aras†ú), pp. 110–111, this reads “If you seek…”
38 Translator’s note: Rafati goes on to note that, in a footnote included
in Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-Maqám (ˇihrán: Aras†ú), p. 110, the following

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


explanation is given: “‘Óájí’ here is a reference to Óájí Mullá Ri∂áy-i-
Hamadání.”
39 Translator’s note: Rafati goes on to note that, in Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-
Maqám (ˇihrán: Aras†ú), pp. 110–111, this reads “‘Abduʼr-Razzáq Bayk-i-
Adíb-i-Kámilí.”
40 Translator’s note: The original phrase in the typescript provided by
Rafati reads al-‘ibádu bi’lláh (“the servants unto God”), but he goes on to
note that this is likely a typographical error that should actually read al-
‘íyádhu bi’lláh (“Refuge is with God”).
41 Translator’s note: Rafati goes on to note that, in Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-
Maqám (ˇihrán: Aras†ú), pp. 110–111, this reads “The saddlebow of the
mullá…”
42 Translator’s note: Both quotes are indirect references to Qurʼán 50:30.
43 Author’s note: Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-Maqám, pp. 74–75.
44 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
45 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 50:30.
46 Author’s note: The complete text of this Tablet has been published in
Muntakhabátí az Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abduʼl-Bahá [“Selections from the
Writings of ‘Abduʼl-Bahá”], vol. 6, p. 366.
47 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
48 Author’s note: This Tablet, which ‘Abduʼl-Bahá wrote to Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-Báqir Khán Shírází, has been published in INBA, vol. 84, pp.
371–376.
49 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
50 Translator’s note: Another name for Mírzá ‘Abbás Núrí, the father of
Baháʼuʼlláh.
51 Translator’s note: The twelfth son of Fat˙-‘Alí Sháh.
52 Translator’s note: A Turkic people who ruled Persia immediately
before the Qájárs.
53 Translator’s note: The word dam used here in the original text could
also be read as the Arabic word for blood.
54 Author’s note: Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-Maqám, pp. 117–118. Baháʼuʼlláh’s
father is the addressee of this letter.
55 Author’s note: An extensive biographical account of Ibn-i-Abhar is
given in Muʼassisiy-i-Ayádíy-i-Amruʼlláh [“The Institution of the Hands
of the Cause of God”], pp. 402–449.

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings


56 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
57 Author’s note: The turns of phrase used in this Tablet are reminiscent
of a couplet (no. 577) from the sixth book of Rúmí’s Mathnaví:
When one’s in the clutches of a bloodthirsty lion
What recourse has he but to resign and submit?
58 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
59 Author’s note: “Jináb-i-Amín” refers to Óájí Mírzá Abu’l-Óasan Amín
Ardikání.
60 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
61 Translator’s note: A village in Káshán County.
62 Translator’s note: A town in Káshán County.
63 Translator’s note: In an email to the present translator dated 9 January
2019, Vahid Rafati suggested that Naw-Rúz ‘Alí was probably a Baháʼí
who had made pilgrimage to the Holy Land from Azerbaijan.
64 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
65 Translator’s note: Alternatively, “one that is in your name.”
66 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 11:41.
67 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 17:79.
68 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 56:30.
69 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 11:99.
70 Translator’s note: Qurʼán 11:98.
71 Author’s note: INBA, vol. 88, pp. 241–2.
72 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
73 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
74 Author’s note: Mu˙tasham Káshání states:
What relationship does the indigent have to the creditor?
What business do the poet and the Turkish tax-collector have with one
another?
Avoid that Turk, Yúq Bílmez; for despite one’s indigence,

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


And no matter the excuses one makes before him, he’ll demand his
money all the same

[Translator’s note: The full text of the poem is available online here:
https://ganjoor.net/mohtasham/divan-moh/ghete-moh/sh49/]
75 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
76 Translator’s note: Óáfiẓ, ghazal no. 190:
https://ganjoor.net/hafez/ghazal/sh190/
77 Author’s note: Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-Maqám, pp. 126–127. For a
discussion of the phrase “your musk-laden pen,” refer to Maʼákhidh-i-
Ash‘ár, vol. 4, pp. 258–260.
78 Author’s note: “A speaker from former times” is a reference to the
Qáʼim-Maqám.
79 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
80 Author’s note: A‘ájim is a reference to Persians. The contents of this
Tablet seem to allude to falsehoods and calumnies leveled against the
Baháʼí Faith that had been printed in the Arabic publications of Levantine
countries. Without hesitation, and dispensing with careful reflection, the
authors of these statements accepted and regarded as correct the suspicion
and slander that Persian writers had previously directed at the Baháʼí
Faith.
81 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
82 Translator’s note: A reference to the Manifestation of God.
83 Translator’s note: One of the titles of ‘Abduʼl-Bahá.
84 Author’s note: For a discussion of ‘Abduʼl-Bahá’s journey to Beirut,
refer to Yádnámiy-i-Mißbá˙-i-Munír [“A Festschrift for Mißbá˙-i-
Munír”], p. 151.
85 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
86 Translator’s note: A more technical translation would read, “…this káf
representeth káf-i-dhikr-i-dústán [“the K of the remembrance of the
friends”], and the nún signifieth nún-i-ni‘mat-i-ma˙abbat-i-bí-páyán [“the
N of the gift of limitless love”]. The Arabic equivalent of “be” is kun,
which consists of the letters káf and nún. The fact that the words “be”
and kun both consist of two letters means they are perfect counterparts —
a fact which Shoghi Effendi used to his advantage when translating
phrases where this cosmological metaphor occurs (from the Long
Obligatory Prayer, for instance: “I testify…that He Who hath been

Qáʼim-Maqám Faráhání in the Baháʼí Writings


manifested is the Hidden Mystery, the Treasured Symbol, through Whom
the letters B [al-káf] and E [al-nún]…have been joined and knit together.”)
In reading the transliterations of the phrases represented by káf (dhikr-i-
dústán) and nún (ni‘mat-i-ma˙abbat-i-bí-páyán), we see that the first word
of each includes their respective letters. While Baháʼuʼlláh’s intent, then,
is abundantly clear in the original Persian text of this passage, it is
inevitably lost in translation.
87 Author’s note: Baháʼuʼlláh’s reference to the creation of the world
through the letters káf and nún is an allusion to the phrase kun fa yakún
[“Be, and it is”], which occurs repeatedly in the Qurʼán, and through
which God brought all creation into existence. For instance, see Qurʼán
36:82 and 3:47. Refer also to relevant explanations of káf and nún in
several places throughout Badáyi‘-i-Ma‘ání va Tafsír [“The Wonders of
Meanings and Commentary”] (Darmstadt: ‘Aßr-i-Jadíd, 2012), including
pp. 146–147.
88 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
89 Translator’s note: A self-referential epithet used by Baháʼuʼlláh to
denote His station as the mouthpiece of God.
90 Author’s note: Payk-i-Rástán [“Messenger of the True Ones”], p. 122.
91 Translator’s note: Provisional translation of this Tablet by Adib
Masumian.
92 Translator’s note: In the historical parlance of Middle Eastern
geography, there are actually two ‘Iráqs: “the Arab ‘Iráq” (‘iráq-i-‘arab)
and “the Persian ‘Iráq” (‘iráq-i-‘ajam). The former refers to present-day
‘Iráq, while the latter was “the name given in medieval times to the largely
mountainous, western portion of modern Persia” (C.E. Bosworth,
ʿERĀQ-E ʿAJAM(Ī), Encyclopedia Iranica; available online here:
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/eraq-e-ajami). With the passage of
time, “the Persian ‘Iráq” came to be synonymous with a much more
specific district of present-day Iran that includes the city of Sul†án-Ábád,
now called Arák. Given that the Qáʼim-Maqám was born in Arák, it is
quite possible that this was the meaning he intended — as he may have
been writing to someone there to whom he still had ties — but it would be
impossible to say this definitively without knowing the identity of the
addressee.
93 Translator’s note: From the Mathnaví of Rúmí:
https://ganjoor.net/moulavi/masnavi/daftar3/sh182/
94 Translator’s note: This sentence, written in Arabic, is likely a
paraphrase of a hemistich from a poem by Abú Nuwás — a poet from the
Abbasid era — which uses bihi (“for him”) rather than biná (“for us”), as

Lights of Irfán vol. 20


the Qáʼim-Maqám does here. I am grateful to Ruwa Pokorny for offering
her valuable insight on how best to render this sentence into English.
95 Author’s note: Munshaʼát-i-Qáʼim-Maqám, pp. 8–9.
96 Translator’s note: A style of lyric poem that invariably deals with some
kind of love.
97 Author’s note: Díván-i-Qáʼim-Maqám, p. 148.
98 Author’s note: Maʼákhidh-i-Ash‘ár, pp. 80–81.

Dei Verbum
A Bahá’í Perspective on the Roman Catholic
Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation
Marco Oliveira
This text was written as a project for the “Bahá’í Theology 2017”
course from Wilmette Institute. Its purpose is to analyze some basic
Christian Catholic beliefs on divine revelation and to explain its
differences and similarities to the Bahá’í Faith.
Acknowledgements: Special thanks to Mikhail Sergeev for all
the guidance, encouragement, suggestions and comments; Ian Kluge
for inspirational observations during the course; and Robert
Stockman for the constant support.
How the Bahá’í Faith sees Christianity
Verily, He (Jesus) said: 'Come ye after Me, and I will make
you to become fishers of men.' In this day, however, We say:
'Come ye after Me, that We may make you to become
quickeners of mankind.' [PB 91]
I was born in Portugal, a country with a predominantly Catholic
population. Most of my relatives and friends are Catholics; some are
more conservative, others are more liberal; the strength of their
Catholic identity depends on each person. Needless to say, ever since

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
I became Bahá’í in 1984, I have been asked many of questions about
the Bahá’í Faith.
After so many explanations and interesting conversations on
religious issues, I believe it is time to explain the Bahá’í Faith by
comparing it to the core beliefs of the Catholic Church. I expect such
an explanation would make the Bahá’í Faith more understandable for
a Catholic, and simultaneously, would also allow Bahá’ís from non-
Catholic background to better understand the central beliefs of the
Catholic Church.
The basis for this comparison will be Dei Verbum (meaning “Word
of God” in Latin), a document published by the Catholic Church. Dei
Verbum is one of the most important documents of the Second
Vatican Council (1962-1965); it is described as the “Roman Catholic
Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation.” Its intention was to
explain the “authentic doctrine on divine revelation” and how it was
transmitted throughout the history.
But before we begin our analysis of Dei Verbum, let me remind
our readers how the Bahá’í Faith sees Christianity.
The Bahá’í Faith recognizes the divinity of Jesus Christ, the
importance of His sacrifice and His influence in the history of
humanity. Most Bahá’ís, when writing or talking about this issue, will
most likely quote the following words of Baha’u’llah:
Know thou that when the Son of Man yielded up His breath
to God, the whole creation wept with a great weeping. By
sacrificing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused
into all created things. Its evidences, as witnessed in all the
peoples of the earth, are now manifest before thee. The
deepest
wisdom
which
the
sages
have
uttered,
the
profoundest learning which any mind hath unfolded, the arts
which the ablest hands have produced, the influence exerted
by the most potent of rulers, are but manifestations of the
quickening power released by His transcendent, His all-
pervasive and resplendent Spirit. We testify that when He
came into the world, He shed the splendor of His glory upon
all created things. [GWB #36]

Die Verbum

Concerning the origins of Christianity, the Bahá’í beliefs have a
striking similarity with the ones of the Catholic Church:
As to the position of Christianity, let it be stated without any
hesitation or equivocation that its divine origin is
unconditionally acknowledged, that the Sonship and Divinity
of Jesus Christ are fearlessly asserted, that the divine
inspiration of the Gospel is fully recognized, that the reality
of the mystery of the Immaculacy of the Virgin Mary is
confessed, and the primacy of Peter, the Prince of the
Apostles, is upheld and defended. [PDC 109-110]
And how do Bahá’ís feel about the followers of Jesus Christ? An
answer to this question can be found in an event that occurred during
the life of Baha’u’llah. In 1868, He was living in exile in Edirne
(Ottoman Empire) when the Sultan decided to exile Him together
with His family and companions. Such decision disturbed the small
group of exiles and also many people in the city. The following quote
refers to that moment:
The people surrounded the house, and Muslims and Christians
wept over Us, and the voice of lamentation was upraised
between earth and heaven by reason of what the hands of the
oppressors had wrought. We perceived that the weeping of
the people of the Son exceeded the weeping of others — a
sign for such as ponder. [SLH 146]
Divine Revelation
That City is none other than the Word of God revealed in
every age and dispensation. In the days of Moses it was the
Pentateuch; in the days of Jesus, the Gospel; in the days of
Muhammad, the Messenger of God, the Qur'an; in this day,
the Bayan; and in the Dispensation of Him Whom God will
make manifest, His own Book. [KI π219]
How does God make Himself known? To whom does He reveal
himself? And through whom? How can we know Him? These are the
very first questions we have to answer when we try to explain any
theistic system of thought. The first chapter of Dei Verbum (named

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
“Revelation Itself”) presents a Catholic answer to these questions. In
short, it states the following:
o  God revealed Himself and made His will known. This
revelation occurred through actions and words in history, and
reached its fullness with Jesus Christ. (#2)
o  After the fall of Adam and Eve, God offered salvation to
humanity, sending Abraham, the Patriarchs, Moses and then
Jesus Christ (“the word made flesh”). (#3)
o  The dispensation of Christ is considered a “new and definitive
covenant” and the Church expects “no further new public
revelation before the glorious manifestation of our Lord
Jesus Christ”. (#4)
o  God can be known through reason and revelation. (#6)
This is a Christocentric view of divine revelation. Jesus is seen as the
apex of divine presence in history of Humankind; before Him, God
revealed Himself through the prophets and patriarchs; after Him,
there was the Church guided by the Holy Spirit. This chapter also
reaffirms the myth of the fall as a justification for the concept of
salvation, and claims that the revelation of Jesus was final. This view
could be explained with the following image:
Basically, the Catholic Church claims finality (no more divine
revelations after Jesus) and exclusivity (another document published
by the Vatican II, named Nostra Aetate, referred to non-Christians
religions and had a more inclusive perspective). Such a claim may
have made some sense in homogeneous societies, where people

Die Verbum

practiced only one religion and had no contact with other realities.
Thanks to migrations and communications, we live today in
pluralistic societies; it is very easy for us to get in contact with
persons of other cultures and religions.
Therefore this Catholic claim raises several difficulties and
contradictions:
o  Why would God have a final or exclusive revelation?
o  How is it possible to claim that an All-Loving Father loves all
humanity, but saves only a minority?
o  How is it possible that the Creator of all humanity reveals
Himself only during a certain period of time, and only to a
few people?
o  How can we claim that God is a God of universal love and
pretend that only one of His revelations is true?
o  Could the leading figure in the history of humankind be only
one people or only one religion?
In clear contrast with this view, the Bahá’í Faith states that
religious truth is revealed by God progressively and cyclically over
time through a series of divine Messengers, and their teachings are
tailored to suit the needs of the time and place of their appearance.
The notion of progressive revelation could be explained with the
following schema:

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Concerning the diversity of religion in the world, Bahá’u’lláh says:
There can be no doubt whatever that the peoples of the
world, of whatever race or religion, derive their inspiration
from one heavenly Source, and are the subjects of one God.
The difference between the ordinances under which they
abide should be attributed to the varying requirements and
exigencies of the age in which they were revealed. All of
them… were ordained of God, and are a reflection of His Will
and Purpose. [GWB #111]
An unbiased study of the lives of the Messengers of God — the
Manifestations of God — will show that They have a lot in common:
o  They appear in times of moral and spiritual decadence.
o  Their appearance is not noticed.
o  Their teachings call for a moral and spiritual reformation.
o  They face opposition from the clergy and political power.
o  They announced that another Manifestation would appear (or
that they would return).
o  They are persecuted and sometimes killed.
o  Eventually their message prevails and is accepted.
Apostles and Tradition
One's conduct must be like the conduct of Paul, and one's
faith similar to that of Peter. [SWAB #189]
Every religion has its heroes and saints from the early days; they
are privileged witnesses of the dawn of a new revelation. Their lives
and sayings often become the core of the new religion.
The second chapter of Dei Verbum (named “Handing On Divine
Revelation”) focuses on the importance of the Apostles and their
succession. In short, it states the following:
o  The Apostles preached the Gospel. Their words and deeds
conveyed the message of Christ. (#7)

Die Verbum

o  The Apostles left bishops as their successors, “handing over”
to them “the authority to teach in their own place.” (#7)
o  This is the beginning of the “apostolic tradition,” believed to
be guided by the Holy Spirit. Several events in Catholic
history are believed to be a proof of the validity of this
tradition (#8).
o  There is a strong link between sacred scripture and tradition.
Both are accepted with the same “loyalty and reverence.” (#9)
o  Both scripture and Tradition are expressions of the divine
Will. The task of the Church is to preserve, interpret and
preach the teachings that exist in the sacred scriptures and
tradition (#10).
In the Bahá’í Faith the Apostles of Christ are highly respected and
admired. The Bahá’í authoritative texts stresses their spiritual
importance, their influence and their unique role in the growth of the
early Christian Church. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:
The Apostles were even as Letters, and Christ was the essence
of the Word Itself; and the meaning of the Word, which is
grace everlasting, cast a splendour on those Letters. [SWAB
#29]
It is also relevant to notice that the Bahá’í sacred texts also
describe the role of the Apostles after the crucifixion of Christ as the
main actors in the true resurrection of Christ:
After the martyrdom of Christ, the Apostles were perplexed
and dismayed... The Cause of Christ was thus as a lifeless
body. After three days the Apostles became firm and
steadfast, arose to aid the Cause of Christ, resolved to
promote the divine teachings and practise their Lord’s
admonitions, and endeavoured to serve Him… In other
words, the Cause of Christ, which was like unto a lifeless
body, was quickened to life and surrounded by the grace of
the Holy Spirit. [SAQ ch. 23:6]
According to the Bahá’í sacred texts, the Apostles also received
the Holy Spirit:

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
… the descent of the Holy Spirit means that the Apostles were
attracted by the messianic Spirit, attained constancy and
steadfastness, found a new life through the spirit of God’s
love, and saw Christ to be their ever-living helper and
protector. They were mere drops and became the ocean; they
were feeble gnats and became soaring eagles; they were all
weakness and became endowed with strength. [SAQ ch. 24:4]
This second chapter of Dei Verbum claims that the apostolic
tradition — known as a process of handing over doctrinal and
spiritual authority — is an expression of divine Will and source of
guidance. This is a topic where the Catholics and followers of every
other religion diverge. For the Bahá’ís, the divine guidance comes
from the person and the words of a divine Messenger. An additional
source of guidance to the Bahá’ís comes from the writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and the messages from the Universal
House of Justice.
We should have in mind that in the Catholic Church there is no
such thing as a written covenant (as in the Bahá’í Faith). There is just
a series of interpretations of the Bible and of history to claim the
authority to the tradition. On the contrary, the succession of
authority (to rule over the community of believers and to interpret
the sacred writings) is clearly defined in the Bahá’í Faith (covenants
of Baha'u'llah and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá).
First concerning the statement of Jesus Christ “Thou art
Peter and upon this rock...”: this saying of Jesus establishes
beyond any doubt the primacy of Peter and also the principle
of succession, but is not explicit enough regarding the nature
and functioning of the Church itself. The Catholics have read
too much into that statement, and derived from it certain
conclusions which are quite unjustifiable. (From a letter dated 7
September 1938 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual
believer, quoted in LG #1650)
And concerning traditions in general, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá warned us:
The Jews have traditional superstitions, the Buddhists and the
Zoroastrians are not free from them, neither are the

Die Verbum

Christians! All religions have gradually become bound by
tradition and dogma… We should, therefore, detach ourselves
from the external forms and practices of religion. We must
realize that these forms and practices, however beautiful, are
but garments clothing the warm heart and the living limbs of
Divine truth. We must abandon the prejudices of tradition if
we would succeed in finding the truth at the core of all
religions. [PT 135-136]
The Origins of Sacred Scripture
You must know the Old and New Testaments as the Word of
God. [PUP 201]
All religions have their sacred writings. These may be words of
their Prophet founder, testimonies of faiths, oral traditions or
descriptions of the deeds of the first believers. The content of these
Texts goes from proclamations of the divine message, counselling on
moral issues, definition of social laws, to divinely inspired poetry and
prophecies. Naturally, the followers of every religion believe their
sacred writings have a special power, in that they can affect
positively their personal and collective lives.
Dei Verbum focuses its 3rd chapter (named “Sacred Scripture, Its
Inspiration and Divine Interpretation”) on this topic. In short it says:
o  Sacred scripture (Old and New Testaments) were written
under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. Their books teach
divine truth faithfully and without error (#11).
o  To understand the scriptures we should be aware of their
diverse “literary forms.” The circumstances and cultural
environments where the books appeared should be taken in
consideration (#12).
o  Interpreting scripture should also take tradition into account
and is subject to the judgment of the Church (#12).
o  The Word of God is similar to human words, just like the
Word of God once assumed the flesh of human weakness
(#13).

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Most people think of sacred scripture as a synonym for the “Word
of God.” But for the Bahá’í Faith the notion of the Word of God is
not limited to the sacred scripture. The Gospel of John begins with
the mysterious words “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word
was with God, and the Word was God.” The Qur’an states that God
created the universe with the word “Be” (2:117). Baha’u’llah makes
similar statements and says that the Word of God is “the Cause of the
entire creation,” and has powers and features beyond our
understanding:
…the Word of God — exalted be His glory — is higher and far
superior to that which the senses can perceive, for it is
sanctified from any property or substance. It transcendeth
the limitations of known elements and is exalted above all the
essential and recognized substances. It became manifest
without any syllable or sound and is none but the Command
of God which pervadeth all created things. It hath never been
withheld from the world of being. [Baha’u’llah, Tablet of
Wisdom, in TB 141]
According to the Bahá’í sacred writings, the Word of God is the
first emanation from God. It always existed and will continue to
exist. Everything was created through the Word. To understand the
relation between God and His Word, the Bahá’í sacred texts often use
the following analogy: God is like the sun and the Word is like the
sun’s rays. These rays are reflected by the Manifestations of God,
who, acting like mirrors, convey the Word to humankind. Therefore,
Their words can be said to be the Word of God. Their written words
are what we call “sacred writings”.
For the Bahá’í Faith, the books of the Old and New Testaments are
sacred writings, although they are not word-for-word the utterances
and historical facts of the revelations they describe. In the Book of
Certitude [π93, π98], Bahá’u’lláh confirmed the spiritual authenticity
of the Gospel texts.
In 1911, when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was in London, He visited and spoke
at the City Temple. Before leaving the Church, He wrote in the old
Bible used by generations of preachers, the following words:

Die Verbum

This book is the Holy Book of God, of celestial Inspiration.
It is the Bible of Salvation, the Noble Gospel. It is the
mystery of the Kingdom and its light. It is the Divine Bounty,
the sign of the guidance of God. [ABL 18]
We wrote in a previous chapter that the Bahá’í Faith maintains
that no religion has the exclusivity (or the finality) of the divine
truth. Therefore, it should be clear that for Bahá’ís, the Bible is not
the only existing sacred Book. There are other authentic scripture
available to humankind, namely, the Qur’án and the Bahá’í sacred
texts.
Concerning interpretations, it is normal that a religious authority
claims to have the power to explain the meaning of their sacred
writings. However, such power is questioned when another divine
revelation appears and the new Manifestations of God explain the
true meaning of the scriptures of past religions. One of such cases is
described in the Bible when a twelve year old Jesus is found by His
parents in the Temple explaining the meaning of the sacred writings
to the scholars of His time (Luke 2:41-52).
Considering that for Bahá’ís there were other Divine revelations
after Jesus Christ — namely, through Muhammad, the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh — it should not be a surprise to find in the Qur’án and in
the Bahá’í authoritative texts explanations and interpretations of the
Bible. Several Bahá’í books and tablets quote and explain various
texts of the Bible, including Genesis, the Old Testament prophets,
each of the gospels, several of the New Testament epistles and the
Revelation of St. John.
The Old Testament
At one time, Thou didst raise Him up, O my God, and didst
attire Him with the ornament of the name of Him Who
conversed with Thee (Moses), and didst through Him uncover
all that Thy will had decreed and Thine irrevocable purpose
ordained. [PM 38]
Being born in a Jewish environment, and having its first believers
coming from Jewish backgrounds, Christianity assumed the Jewish

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
scriptures as part of their spiritual patrimony. These ancient texts
were understood as a path leading to the revelation of Christ.
Dei Verbum focuses its 4th chapter (named “The Old Testament”)
on this topic. In short it says:
o  God established a covenant with Abraham, renewed it with
Moses and spoke through the prophets of Israel (#14).
o  Thus, the Old Testament presents a plan of salvation that
prepares humanity for the advent of Christ (#15).
o  The books of the Old Testament “contain some things which
are incomplete and temporary” but also display a “true divine
pedagogy,” including “sublime teachings about God, sound
wisdom about human life, and a wonderful treasury of
prayers” (#15).
o  The Old Testament is a preparation for the new covenant
established by Christ, and its full meaning is exposed in the
New Testament (#16).
For the Bahá’í Faith, every divine revelation has a preparatory
message for the following revelation. The Old Testament is part of
the process of continuous divine revelation. The prophets of Israel
announced Christ and other Manifestations of God. In the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh refers to the following prophets/persons of the Old
Testament: Abel, Abraham, David, Joseph, Moses, Noah, and
Pharaoh.
Concerning Abraham, Baha’u’llah revealed the following words:
Later, the beauty of the countenance of the Friend of God
appeared from behind the veil, and another standard of
divine guidance was hoisted. He invited the people of the
earth to the light of righteousness… It is well known what a
host of enemies besieged Him, until at last the fires of envy
and rebellion were kindled against Him. And after the
episode of the fire came to pass, He, the lamp of God
amongst men, was, as recorded in all books and chronicles,
expelled from His city. [KI π11]
Concerning Job, ‘Abdu’l-Baha wrote:

Die Verbum

Reflect upon his holiness Job: What trials, calamities and
perplexities did he not endure! But these tests were like unto
the fire and his holiness Job was like unto pure gold.
Assuredly gold is purified by being submitted to the fire and
if it contain any alloy or imperfection, it will disappear. That
is the reason why violent tests become the cause of the
everlasting glory of the righteous and are conducive to the
destruction and disappearance of the unrighteous. [TAB3 655]
And concerning Moses, Baha’u’llah wrote:
Armed with the rod of celestial dominion, adorned with the
white hand of divine knowledge, and proceeding from the
Párán of the love of God, and wielding the serpent of power
and everlasting majesty, He [Moses] shone forth from the
Sinai of light upon the world. He summoned all the peoples
and kindreds of the earth to the kingdom of eternity.... Surely
you are aware of the fierce opposition of Pharaoh and his
people, and of the stones of idle fancy which the hands of
infidels cast upon that blessed Tree. So much so that Pharaoh
and his people finally arose and exerted their utmost
endeavor to extinguish with the waters of falsehood and
denial the fire of that sacred Tree... [KI π12]
In the Bahá’í authoritative texts we can find hundreds of quotes
and allusions to Old Testament verses. However, we should keep in
mind that the references to Old Testament stories, peoples and
Prophets do not mean that the Bahá’í Faith believes these are
necessarily historical facts or characters. But the spiritual meanings
that these stories convey are truly important and are reaffirmed in
the Bahá’í writings.
Jesus and the New Testament
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is reported to have said:
His Holiness Christ said: “The Father is in me.” This we must
understand through logical and scientific evidences, for if
religious principles do not accord with science and reason,
they do not inspire the heart with confidence and assurance….

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Let us, free from past tradition, investigate the reality of this
matter. What is the meaning of the father and the son? [ADP
151-152]
Jesus Christ is the central character of the New Testament; the
Gospels, the Acts, the Epistles and the Book of Revelation are
centered in His life, His teachings, the deeds of the early apostles,
and their understanding of His teachings. Dei Verbum focuses its 5th
chapter (named “The New Testament”) on this topic. In short it says:
o  Christ was the “Word made Flesh.” He “established the
kingdom of God on earth,” died, resurrected, and ascended to
Heaven. (#17)
o  The New Testament presents the Word of God in its “most
excellent way” (#17). The Gospels have apostolic origin and
preeminence in the New Testament (#18).
o  The Church asserts unhesitatingly the “historical character” of
the Gospels. The purpose of the authors of the Gospels was to
tell us “honest truth about Jesus.” They selected some things,
summarized other things and explained others. (#19)
o  The epistles and other New Testament writings were
“composed under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,”
describing “the beginnings of the Church” and its growth
(#20).
According to the Bahá’í teachings, the New Testament is the Word
of God; but that doesn’t mean it is historically reliable. The books of
the New Testament are testimonies of faith written by different
people many years after the death of Christ; they refer to historical
events, but cannot be said to be historical documents because they do
not describe literally and exactly what happened. This topic was
mentioned in a previous chapter.
Also in a previous chapter, we described the difference between
God, His Word, and creation; we explained how His Messengers
(including Christ) are like mirrors reflecting His word. That does not
mean that the Word — or God — enters or incarnates in a Messenger.
God is transcendent by definition; therefore, He cannot assume the
form of a human being. If that would happen, He would no longer be

Die Verbum

God. God cannot incarnate; how could the Infinite become finite?
Regarding this issue, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is reported to have said:
This fatherhood and sonship are allegorical and symbolical.
The Messianic reality is like unto a mirror through which the
sun of divinity has become resplendent. If this mirror
expresses “The light is in me” — it is sincere in its claim;
therefore Jesus was truthful when he said, “The Father is in
me.” The sun in the sky and the sun in the mirror are one, are
they not? — and yet we see there are apparently two suns.
[ADP 151-152]
Because Jesus is the central character in the New Testament, it is
suitable now to describe the Bahá’í view on several main
Christological topics.
The Bahá’í sacred texts acknowledge the virginal birth of Christ.
This belief, however, does not raise Jesus’ divine condition above any
other Messenger of God. Neither does it imply that Bahá’ís follow
any Mariology cult. Shoghi Effendi clarified this topic:
...regarding the birth of Jesus-Christ. In the light of what
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have stated concerning this
subject it is evident that Jesus came into this world through
the direct intervention of the Holy Spirit, and that
consequently His birth was quite miraculous. This is an
established fact, and the friends need not feel at all surprised,
as the belief in the possibility of miracles has never been
rejected in the Teachings. Their importance, however, has
been minimized. [Shoghi Effendi, letter dated 31 December 1937,
quoted in LG 489]
The Bahá’í Faith does not deny the power of Manifestations of
God to perform miracles, but tends to reinterpret accounts of
miracles as metaphors, for spiritual miracles are more important than
physical ones. Speaking of Jesus’s miracles, Bahá’u’lláh states:
…through Him [Jesus] the leper recovered from the leprosy
of perversity and ignorance. Through Him, the unchaste and
wayward were healed. Through His power, born of Almighty
God, the eyes of the blind were opened, and the soul of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
sinner sanctified. Leprosy may be interpreted as any veil that
interveneth between man and the recognition of the Lord, his
God. Whoso alloweth himself to be shut out from Him is
indeed a leper. [GWB #36]
The resurrection of Christ is a point of divergence between
Bahá’ís and Christians. Christians believe in a physical resurrection–
this is a core belief for them!–and Bahá’ís understand resurrection as
symbolizing the resurrection of the early Church. This is explained in
several passages in the Bahá’í authoritative texts. Shoghi Effendi
wrote:
We do not believe that there was a bodily resurrection after
the crucifixion of Christ, but that there was a time after His
ascension when His disciples perceived spiritually his true
greatness and realized He was eternal in being. This is what
has been reported symbolically in the New Testament and
been misunderstood. [HE 69-70]
Understanding Sacred Scripture
…in the sayings of Him Who is the Spirit (Jesus) unnumbered
significances lie concealed. Unto many things did He refer,
but as He found none possessed of a hearing ear or a seeing
eye He chose to conceal most of these things. Even as He
saith: “But ye cannot bear them now.” [ESW 148]
The divine Words are not to be taken according to their
outer sense. They are symbolical and contain realities of
spiritual meaning. For instance, in the book of Solomon’s
songs you will read about the bride and bridegroom. It is
evident that the physical bride and bridegroom are not
intended. Obviously, these are symbols conveying a hidden
and inner significance. In the same way the Revelations of St.
John are not to be taken literally, but spiritually. [PUP 458]
Sacred scriptures have a pivotal importance for all world religions.
They have the principles and the core teachings of each religion. For
Christians, sacred scripture means only the Bible. Dei Verbum

Die Verbum

focuses its 6th chapter (named “Sacred Scripture in the Life of the
Church”) on this topic. In short it says:
o  The Church considers the scriptures and the tradition as a
“supreme rule of Faith.” All preaching should be “nourished
and regulated” by scripture. (#21)
o  Christians should have access to the scriptures; therefore,
“suitable and correct” translations are encouraged. (#22)
Translations should have the necessary explanations for
Christians and non-Christians. (#25)
o  A deeper understanding of the scriptures is required. Exegetes
and theologians, under the vigilance of the Church, should
explain the meaning of the scriptures. (#23, #24)
o  The clergy and lay people are urged to read the scriptures
diligently and study them carefully, accompanied by prayer.
(#25)
o  Reading and studying of scripture will foster a stimulus in
believer’s spiritual life. (#26)
The Manifestations of God always explained the meaning of the
sacred writings of previous religions to their followers. The meanings
they presented were always different from current understanding
amongst clergy and people. This is a natural part of the process of
progressive revelation.
The New Testament presents us a story of the boy Jesus explaining
the meaning of Hebrew scriptures to the doctors in the Temple (Luke
2:41-52). Later, the Christians began to understand the Old
Testament in a different mode, found new meanings in those books,
and shared them with the Jews and Gentiles. This was a motive for
acceptance and rejection of the Message of Christ.
Today we have a similar situation with the Bahá’í Faith.
Bahá’u’lláh and His son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, revealed the meaning of
various passages of the Qur’an and the Bible. In January 1861,
Baha’u’llah was asked by an uncle of the Báb — the forerunner of
Baha’u’llah — on the meaning of several passages of the sacred
writings. In reply, Baha’u’llah revealed the Book of Certitude (also

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
known as The Kitáb-i-ˆqán). This book is the second most important
book of the Bahá’í sacred texts.
The Book of Certitude is a work of exegesis where Bahá’u’lláh
rationally demonstrates the existence of figurative language in the
Scriptures, based on absurdities that result from literal readings. He
then presents several interpretations for symbolic descriptions and
terms found in the New Testament and in the Qur’an. Parables,
figurative speech, and apocalyptic visions are interpreted and given a
new meaning.
To demonstrate the concept of progressive revelation, Bahá’u’lláh
explains in the Book of Certitude the meaning of concepts like
“resurrection,” “return of a Prophet,” “sovereignty,” and “Seal of the
Prophets.” His exegesis exposes the consistency, coherence, and
evolution of religion as a single process. The book rationalized the
eschatology and established the doctrinal framework for the Bahá’í
Faith. It also provided an eschatological bridge into a new religious
worldview.
Referring to the Book of Certitude, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian
of the Bahá’í Faith, wrote:
Well may it be claimed that of all the books revealed by the
Author of the Bahá’í Revelation, this Book alone, by
sweeping
away
the
age-long
barriers
that
have
so
insurmountably separated the great religions of the world,
has laid down a broad and unassailable foundation for the
complete and permanent reconciliation of their followers.
[GPB 139]
Some Answered Questions is a book that contains questions
related to religion, philosophy and science, asked to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by
Laura Clifford Barney, during several of her visits to Haifa between
1904 and 1906, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá's answers to these questions.
A considerable part of the book focuses on Christian subjects,
namely, the story of Adam and Eve, the birth of Christ, the greatness
of Christ, baptism, miracles, the Eucharist, Peter and the Papacy, the
resurrection of Christ, the Holy Spirit, the second coming of Christ,
the Day of Judgement, sin, and the Trinity.

Die Verbum

More than good explanations of deep questions, the Kitab-i-ˆqán
and Some Answered Questions lead the reader to reflect about
religious issues, explaining the seeming contradictions of the religious
pluralism so visible in the world today, and avoiding dogmatic
explanations, exclusivist views or syncretic attempts. No wonder
these books are so popular amongst Bahá’ís and people wanting to
study the Bahá’ís Faith.
A final remark on Christianity
If a Christian sets aside traditionary forms and blind
imitation of ceremonials and investigates the reality of the
gospels, he will discover that the foundation principles of the
teachings of His Holiness Christ were mercy, love,
fellowship, benevolence, altruism, the resplendence or
radiance of divine bestowals, acquisition of the breaths of
the Holy Spirit and oneness with God. [FWU 105]
I was born in a Catholic family and accepted the Bahá’í Faith when
I was 20 years old. Since I first encountered the Bahá’í Faith I always
kept searching for links between the message of Baha’u’llah and the
teachings of Christianity, particularly the Catholic Church. After all,
most of my relatives are Catholics. After formally accepting the
Bahá’í Faith I naturally kept following news and events from
Christian churches.
The many references to Christian themes found in the Bahá’í
Scriptures are an evidence of the strong links between the Christian
and Bahá’í Faiths. Describing the spiritual station of Jesus, Mary, and
Peter, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi, wrote:
The Founder of the Christian Faith is designated by
Bahá’u’lláh as the “Spirit of God,” is proclaimed as the One
Who “appeared out of the breath of the Holy Ghost,” and is
even extolled as the “Essence of the Spirit.” His mother is
described as “that veiled and immortal, that most beauteous,
countenance,” and the station of her Son eulogized as a
“station which hath been exalted above the imaginings of all
that dwell on earth,” whilst Peter is recognized as one whom

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
God has caused “the mysteries of wisdom and of utterance to
flow out of his mouth. [PDC 109-110]
But an honest dialogue between Bahá’ís and Christians can’t be based
only on similarities between these religions. We should also mention
our differences; and as we have shown in this text, we have
significant differences. It is my hope that these similarities and
differences can be the subject for an inspiring and serene Bahá’í-
Christian dialogue.
Besides the Book of Certitude and Some Answered Questions
(mentioned in the previous chapter), other Bahá’í books contain
noteworthy references to the situation of the Church and its future.
In several letters addressed to the Bahá’ís between 1929 and 1936,
Shoghi Effendi described the growth of the Bahá’í community and the
successive world crisis as a process of collective maturation. It is
worth noting the reference he makes to the internal crisis in the
Church:
…in later generations, voices were raised in protest against
the self-appointed Authority which arrogated to itself
privileges and powers which did not emanate from the clear
text of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and which constituted a
grave departure from the spirit which that Gospel did
inculcate. They argued with force and justification that the
canons promulgated by the Councils of the Church were not
divinely-appointed laws, but were merely human devices
which did not even rest upon the actual utterances of Jesus.
Their contention centered around the fact that the vague and
inconclusive words, addressed by Christ to Peter, “Thou art
Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church,” could
never
justify
the
extreme
measures,
the
elaborate
ceremonials, the fettering creeds and dogmas, with which His
successors have gradually burdened and obscured His Faith.
[WOB 20]
It is also worth noting the reference to the external crisis in the
Church:

Die Verbum

Such a conscious, avowed, organized attack against religion
in general and Christianity in particular is something new in
history. Equally deliberate in some lands in its determined
hostility to Christianity is another form of social and
political faith — nationalism. But the nationalist attack on
Christianity, unlike Communism, is often bound up with
some form of national religion — with Islám in Persia and
Egypt, with Buddhism in Ceylon, while the struggle for
communal rights in India is allied with a revival both of
Hinduism and Islám. [WOB 182]
The successive of divine revelations played their role in the history
of humanity and in the transformation of the world. Inspired by
these revelations, the early believers of every religion became active
agents in the spiritual rebirth of the world. Cyclically, the world is
born again. It is interesting to notice that Shoghi Effendi compared
the current development of the Bahá’í Faith — which is today the
source of spiritual rebirth of the world — to the early years of
Christianity:
The indwelling Spirit of God which, in the Apostolic Age of
the Church, animated its members, the pristine purity of its
teachings, the primitive brilliancy of its light, will, no doubt,
be reborn and revived as the inevitable consequence of this
redefinition of its fundamental verities, and the clarification
of its original purpose. [WOB 185]
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Borovicka, JoAnn: Light of the Kingdom, Biblical Topics in the Bahá’í
Writings. (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2016).
Dibdin, Colin: A Bahá’í View of the Bible at https://bahai-
library.com/dibdin_bahai_view_bible
Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation Dei Verbum solemnly
promulgated by His Holiness Pope Paul VI on November 18, 1965 at
http://www.vatican.va/archive/hist_councils/ii_vatican_council/
documents/vat-ii_const_19651118_dei-verbum_en.html
Heggie, James, Bahá’í References to Judaism, Christianity and Islám.
(Oxford, George Ronald, 1986)

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Hornby, Helen. Lights of Guidance: a Bahá’í reference file. (New Delhi,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983).
Stockman, Robert: Christianity from a Bahá’í Perspective, at http://bahai-
library.com/stockman_christianity_bahai_perspective

An Analysis of the Salient Features of
Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
Foad Seddigh1
Abstract
The Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih (see a partial provisional translation
following this paper) is one of the major writings of the Báb, about a
quarter in length of Commentary on the Surih of Joseph (Qayyúmu’l-
Asmá). Although not exclusively, it concerns the commentary on a
particular Islamic prayer for the advent of the promised Qá’im,
(Óujjat), written entirely in Arabic. It has fourteen chapters and was
revealed on or about 10 January, 1846 CE. We can be sure that this
tablet was revealed towards the end of the Shíráz period of His
Ministry. Despite the fact that the Báb was not incarcerated at the
time of revealing this epistle, none-the-less, He was prohibited from
meeting with His followers. In this tablet, He expressed the hope that
the restrictions on Him will be lifted and that He will be able to teach
His followers in person. The Islamic prayer for which this
commentary is written is only three short phrases long. His
commentary appears specifically in chapters 11, 12 and 13 of the
epistle, and it quotes certain words or phrases and expounds their real
meaning. It should be noted that the Báb had not formally disclosed
His complete station of prophethood to the general public at the
time of the revelation of this epistle. Therefore, in other chapters of
the commentary, He alludes to His full station discreetly, and only
those who had the necessary spiritual perception could grasp His
subtle allusions.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Some of the significant themes in this work are as follows: He
refers to various episodes in His ministry, including the successive
tribulations that have befallen Him in Shíráz, and He comments on
the meaning of the letter “Há’”. On a number of occasions, He
asserts that He has not attended any schools and whatever He has
revealed is from God. He laments that the Shaykhís who attained His
presence failed to recognize Him; He forbids any questions about the
Essence of God, criticizes those philosophers who have contended
that the Divine Essence is the First Cause. He further expounds that
the cause of creation is the Primal Will. He asserts that His call is the
same call that arose from the Burning Bush on Mount Sinai. He
elucidates the meaning of the “light” in the famous verse of the
Qur’án. He relates and interprets a dream He experienced on the
night of 12 Mu˙arram. He lauds the station of the Remnant of God
(Baqyyat'ulláh) and stresses that He has thus far disclosed only some
of the truths which He possesses. He declares further that even if all
the rulers of the earth were to arise against Him, they would be
powerless to resist His Cause or frustrate His purpose. He declares
that He yearns to lay down His life in the same manner that Imám
Óusayn did in the path of God. He interprets in the eleventh, twelfth,
and thirteenth chapters, the three parts of the aforementioned prayer,
explicating the conditions of true prayer. In this paper some of the
above points have been explicated further. A provisional translation
of Chapter One follows the article.
Introductory Remarks
Contents of the Epistle
This epistle, a commentary on an Islamic prayer concerning the
advent of the Promised Qá’im (He who arises), answers the questions
of a seeker. It should be noted that several writings of the Báb
particularly in the early period of His ministry are revealed in the
form of Qur’án commentaries. Many Muslim scholars have written
commentaries on the entire Qur’án or even isolated words and
phrases of the Prophet or the Imáms, as they explicate the various
meaning of those same phrases. It should be noted that the
commentaries of the Báb are different in nature from the past. In His
writings, we are not dealing with the interpretive paraphrase of

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
successive generations of believers, but with the corpus of His own
written works, revealed in an entirely new light. Ascertaining the
authenticity of the Sacred Text is no longer an insoluble issue as it
was in previous Dispensations, when it was virtually impossible to
know which parts of the Scripture accurately represented the
Prophet's words and which passages took the form of paraphrase,
interpretation, or even error due to the vagaries or the oral
tradition.
1 The general features of this epistle are given below:
Its Name
Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih. Apart from this name, it is known as “Shar˙-i
Du‘á’-i-Ghaybat” or “Commentary on the Occultation Prayer”,
“Sa˙ifih-i Ja'fariyyih”, and “Tafsír-i-Há”, i.e. Interpretation of the
Letter “Há”. The tablet derives its name from Imám Ja‘far, the
truthful. In the first few years of His Ministry, the Báb named His
writings after the fourteen Immaculates, i.e. the Prophet Mu˙ammad;
Fá†imih, the Prophet’s daughter; ‘Alí, the Prophet’s son-in-law,
cousin, and the first Imám; Óasan son of ‘Alí , the second Imám;
Óusayn son of ‘Alí, the third Imám; this is followed by Imám
Óusayn's son and after him by his descendants who form the rest of
the Immaculates. This epistle is named after the sixth Imám whose
name is Ja‘far.
o Length: About one hundred pages
o Language: Arabic
o Time and Place of Revelation: In the month of
Mu˙arram, 1262 AH or January, 1846, in Shíráz.
o Name of the Addressee: Unknown
o Chapters: Fourteen
o Manuscript: The author of this paper has not come across
an authentic text of the epistle in the original language either
in hand-written or in printed form
o Significance: It clarifies the meaning of “occultation”. The
compelling tone of the epistle will allow us to appreciate its
spiritual value.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Significance of the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
The following list is a compilation of several indicators pointing
to the importance of the epistle:
1. First and foremost, Bahá’u’lláh has quoted in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
(Book of Certitude) from this epistle
(KI 231).
2. The Guardian has listed in the Dawn-Breakers under the title of
“the Most Important Writings of the Báb,” 23 items from
among the best-known works of the Báb. In that list, Risáliy-i-
Ja‘faríyyih is item number ten.3
3. The length of the epistle and the significant nature of the
material presented makes it worthy of our attention.
4. Selections from this epistle are among the few writings of the
Báb that A.L.M. Nicolas has translated, discussed and published
in the introduction to his French translation of the Persian
Bayán.4
5. The early claims of the Báb which form the basis for His later
claims are expounded in this epistle.
6. He calls Himself “Óujjat” meaning the “Testimony” or “Proof”
in this epistle. If we pay close attention, we discover that His
future claims to be the Qá’im and an independent
Manifestation of God are subtly set out in this epistle.
Background Information
Background information which is briefly stated below allows us to
gain a better understanding of the contents of this epistle.
The Qá’im and Mihdí in Islám
The Qá’im and Mihdí are central to the religion of Islam and its
belief-system. Muslims believe that Mu˙ammad is the last prophet.
However, they believe in the return of a few holy figures. Sunnis
believe in the advent of the Mihdí; the Shí‘ahs believe in the
appearance of Qá’im. Many signs and portents are associated with
the appearance of these promised figures. Among them are: to restore
true religion; to herald the end of one age and the beginning of

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
another; to witness the coming of a living guide to bring humanity
back to the straight path; to hear two trumpet blasts; to witness the
days of judgement and resurrection.
Imams in Shí’ah Islam
Shí‘ah means “the follower”. The appointment of the successor to
the Prophet Mu˙ammad is very much in dispute. Since the Prophet
Mu˙ammad did not have a surviving son, the Shí‘ah accepted ‘Alí as
the first Imám and the grand-children of the Prophet Mu˙ammad,
Óasan and Óusayn, as the second and third Imáms, respectively. The
rest of the Imáms are: the son of Óusayn and successively down the
line from the descendants of Imám Óusayn up to the eleventh Imám,
Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí. Uncertainties surround the appearance of the
twelfth Imám, i.e. the son of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí. From a historical
perspective, we are confronted with several hard facts which are
difficult to reject. First, Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí died at the young age
of 28 years. Second, he had no wife, only a maid-servant. Third, when
he died in the year 260 A.H, he had no grown son to appoint as his
successor Imám. Fourth, he did not appoint a successor. Fifth, most
chronicles state that when he died, he had no apparent heir. His
possessions were consequently divided between his brother and his
mother. Sixth, his relatively few followers, at least compared to other
sects of Islám, were divided into fourteen different factions as a
result of the prevailing circumstances. One faction believed in the
existence and disappearance of the child-Imám, a point that will be
discussed further below.
Imáms as Qá’im
Many Shí‘ahs believed that each of the aforementioned Imáms was
the Promised Qá’im who was supposed to usher in a glorious era for
Islám. Based on this belief, these followers asked the Imáms if they
were the promised Qá’im. The answer of the Imáms was naturally
negative. They explained the several reasons why they could not
qualify to be the promised Qá’im. These reasons are reported in the
collections of Óadíth of the Shí‘ahs. The prayer which is the subject
of the commentary by the Báb is given by the sixth Imám (Imám
Ja‘far, the truthful). This prayer in essence asks God to facilitate in

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
granting to the faithful the knowledge of the promised Qá’im. We
will discuss this prayer further below.
Twelfth Imám
Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí, the eleventh Imám, was imprisoned or was
placed under house arrest by the Abbasid Caliph; it is reported that he
died in 260 A.H. in the prison, a fact which is universally upheld and
undisputed. The point of contact between Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí and
the body of the believers was his deputy (‘Uthmán-ibn-Sa‘íd). When
Imám Óasan died at the age of 28, there was overwhelming
uncertainty among his followers because he had no apparent wife (he
had a handmaid), and no son old enough to be appointed as his
successor. To be more precise, there has been no solid evidence to
believe that he had a son who was alive at the time of his death. There
are some ˙adiths (verbal utterance of the Prophets and the Imáms
recorded years later) which state that his maid bore him a son in the
year 255 A.H., but there is no evidence that he was alive in the year
260 A.H; on the contrary, the mounting evidence points to the
opposite. This is why after the death of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí his
followers were divided into nearly fourteen branches, one of which
accepted the child-Imám to be the successor to Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí
as the twelfth Imám. The brother of Imám Óasan, whose name was
Ja‘far, challenged the system with which he was intimately associated
and claimed that his brother did not have any child at all and claimed
that Imám's possessions should be divided between him and the
mother of the deceased Imám; he further claimed that he was the
lawful successor to the Imám. Some people accepted his claim and
followed him, forming one of the fourteen branches of the Shí‘ah
after the death of Imám Óasan. Later on, he was denounced and
called Ja‘far the liar, in spite of the fact that he was the most truthful
person in the world.
The Minor and Major Occultations
After the death of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí, it is said that the child-
Imám who was hidden in an underground passage, and who was not
more than five years old, appointed the deputy of Imám Óasan
(‘Uthmán-ibn-i Sa‘íd) as his own deputy, through whom the believers

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
should communicate with him. Ná’íb means deputy. Another name
for the deputy was the “Báb” (Gate) to the Imám. If we approach this
matter logically, in reality, there was no legitimate, living Imám to
communicate with the body of believers. It is more likely that all
communications were composed and issued by the deputy himself in
the name of an imaginary Imám, who did not physically exist.
Uthmán-ibn-Sa‘íd, just before his death, issued a letter relayed from
the hidden Imám stating that he was appointing Mu˙ammad-ibn-i
‘Uthmán (the deputy's son) as the Imám's deputy, in a similar manner
by which the third and fourth deputies were appointed.5 Thus a span
of sixty nine years lapsed. During this period no one except the
deputies could communicate with the hidden Imám. This sixty-nine-
year period from 260-329 A.H. is called the Minor Occultation. Near
the time of the death of the fourth deputy, a letter purportedly
written by the hidden Imám (twelfth Imám) was issued stating that no
further deputies would be appointed; from then on the Imám would
disappear completely from sight; no one could have any contact with
him. From this point on the “Major Occultation” started and no
specific date for the end of the situation was anticipated.
Shí‘ah ˆthná ‘Asharí
Those who believed in the minor and major occultations of the
hidden Imám were called Shí‘ah ˆthná ‘Asharíyyih (one of the most
obscure groups from amongst the fourteen branches formed
immediately after the death of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí (the eleventh
Imám) referred to earlier. The Imám's absence left a gap which was
gradually filled by the traditional authority of the ‘ulamá, (the
learned), the scholars of religious law, who increasingly extended and
consolidated their influence over the masses of believers. To
legitimize their authority, these clerics presented themselves as the
general representatives of the Hidden Imám on earth. The main
beneficiaries of this arrangement, who became later the core of Shí‘ah
ˆthná ‘Asharíyyih (Shí‘ah twelvers), were the learned who became the
de facto leaders or heirs to the Imám, both for spiritual guidance and
also to receive their share of wealth which was due to the Imám.
These monetary benefits were so lucrative that they dazzled the eyes
of the insincere in heart. The clerics promoted this questionable
arrangement, an arrangement that, strangely enough, was accepted by

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
some. The learned promoted the idea of “the coming of the 12th
Imám” who was also the promised Qá’im at an undisclosed time in
the future.
It should be noted that before the Safavid reign, the Shí‘ah ˆthná
‘Asharí was a minority branch in Iran. For political reasons, the
Safavid kings found it prudent and convenient to promote the Shí‘ah
ˆthná ‘Asharí sect as the state religion due to rivalry with the
Ottoman empire rule.6 Qajar kings, because of the inherent weakness
of their unjust rule, followed the same pattern. They needed the
support of the learned to rule the masses.7 As the years passed, the
questionable idea of occultation became not only part of the belief-
system of every believer in Shí‘ah ˆthná ‘Asharí, but rather the
unquestionable corner-stone of their belief. All Shí’ah came to expect
the appearance of the hidden Imám who was purportedly living at the
time of the end in a city called Jabulqa.8 This belief became so
entrenched in the thoughts and minds of the people that the slightest
deviation from it was considered blasphemous, punishable by either
imprisonment or death.
The Shaykhi School and the doctrine of Fourth Pillar
The period of occultation persisted for ten centuries. With the
approach of the Islamic millennium (1260 A.H.), a messianic fervor
was felt in every corner of Iran. The Shaykhí School which was
established by Shaykh A˙mad A˙sá’í started examining the
fundamentals of Islam. There are five fundamentals of Shí‘ah belief:
1. The unity of God (“towhid”)
2. Acceptance of Mu˙ammad as the Prophet of God
3. The return to God and the resurrection (Ma‘ád)
4. The justice of God
5. Belief in the Imáms as successors of Mu˙ammad
The Shaykhí School scrapped the two principles of the justice of God
and the resurrection (Ma‘ád), arguing that the first two tenets include
these points. However, they added one more principle to the
remaining three, an addition that reduced the principles of the
religion to four only:

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
1. The unity of God
2. Belief in the Prophet
3. Belief in the Imáms
4. The “Fourth Pillar”
This fourth pillar referred to the “Perfect Shí‘ah” who was
communicating with the Hidden Imám. Both Shaykh A˙mad A˙sá’í
and Siyyid Kázim were considered to be the “fourth pillar” of the
faith or the “Báb” to the Hidden Imám, although they never claimed
such a station. Furthermore, they did not teach that the Hidden Imám
was alive in a physical form. They coined the terminology of
“huriqalya” which was a pseudo-physical-form; somewhere between
physical and spiritual; sometimes it is called the Imaginal Realm. They
said that the Imám existed the form of “huriqalya.”
The Báb — the Nature of His Claim
In the year 1260 A.H. the Báb appeared among the Shí‘ah, who had
solidified this core, unshakable belief, unsupported by any divine
revelation, and lacking any rational or spiritual proof. The Twelvers
firmly believed that the promised Qá’im was living in an invisible
city. Some of the learned had even composed treatises describing
their descriptions of this city with its bizarre, if not surreal,
scenarios. The Báb's claim to prophethood had to break and expose
this great wall of vain-imaginings that had solidified the Shí‘ah belief
over the years. His approach was no different from the prophets
gone before Him. All past prophets revealed the essentials of their
religion gradually. The Prophet Mu˙ammad in the Qur’án revealed:
“They will not believe on him though the example of those of old
hath gone before” (Hedjar 15:13).
9 Also: “Such is God's method
carried into effect of old; no change canst thou find in God's mode
of dealing” (Fat˙-The Victory 48: 23). Following this method of
conveying His message to a people steeped in vain-imaginings, the
Báb at the inception of His revelation, conveyed two parallel
messages: One for those sincere believers who were not shackled with
superstitious notions and who followed the inspired promptings of
their heart. For these believers, the former message was stated subtly
from the beginning. The other message was intended for those

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
fundamentalists who relied on the distorted expectations derived
from past traditions. For example, the Báb in His “first and
mightiest” book, the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá (Commentary on the Surih of
Joseph) says for the benefit of the first group:
O YE kinsmen of the Most Great Remembrance! This Tree of
Holiness, dyed crimson with the oil of servitude, hath verily
sprung forth out of your own soil in the midst of the Burning
Bush, yet ye comprehend nothing whatever thereof, neither
of His true, heavenly attributes, nor of the actual
circumstances of His earthly life, nor of the evidences of His
powerful and unblemished behaviour. Actuated by your own
fancies, you consider Him to be alien to the sovereign Truth,
while in the estimation of God He is none other than the
Promised One Himself, invested with the power of the
sovereign Truth, and verily He is, as decreed in the Mother
Book, held answerable in the midst of the Burning Bush...
[SWB 52]
To the second group, He calls Himself “the Gate”:
GLORIFIED is He besides Whom there is none other God. In
His grasp He holdeth the source of authority, and verily God
is powerful over all things. We have decreed that every long
life shall in truth suffer decline and that every hardship shall
be followed by ease, that perchance men may recognize the
Gate of God as He Who is the eternal Truth, and verily God
shall stand as witness unto those that have believed. [SWB 47]
And
Verily I am the ‘Gate of God’ and I give you to drink, by the
leave of God, the sovereign Truth, of the crystal-pure waters
of His Revelation which are gushing out from the
incorruptible Fountain situate upon the Holy Mount. And
those who earnestly strive after the One True God, let them
then strive to attain this Gate. [SWB 50]
The first quote is directed towards the sincere in heart and the
second and the third quotes are directed towards the fundamentalists.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
It is obvious from the second and third quotes that He calls himself
the “Báb” or the “gate.” Outwardly whenever He spoke about His
station, He intended the “gate”. Most Shí‘ah assumed that He meant
by the “gate” the gate to the Hidden Imám, whereas what He
intended in reality was the gate to a “Personage” who was yet
unknown, as has been described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in A Traveller's
Narrative [TN 4]. In the entire Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih, in several passages
He has disavowed having knowledge of the realm of the Unseen, but
in reality, whatever He has written has been revealed by God. This is
similar to following statement in Qayyúmu’l-Asmá:
VERILY We made the revelation of verses to be a testimony
for Our message unto you. Can ye produce a single letter to
match these verses? Bring forth, then, your proofs, if ye be of
those who can discern the one true God. I solemnly affirm
before God, should all men and spirits combine to compose
the like of one chapter of this Book, they would surely fail,
even though they were to assist one another .... [SWB 43]
Opposition of the ‘Ulamá (The Learned)
The ‘Ulamá enjoyed unchallenged leadership for one thousand
years. They fulfilled collectively the role of the deputy of Imám
without directly claiming it. Now in light of the Báb’s claim that He
was the lawful representative of the Hidden Imám, the learned had to
surrender the position that they had arrogated to themselves. In so
doing, for the first time in their history, the Báb questioned their
legitimacy and placed their leadership under threat. This is the main
reason why the learned were among the first to oppose the Báb.
Bahá’u’lláh in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf says:
Reflect, O Shaykh, upon the Shí’ih sect. How many the
edifices which they reared with the hands of idle fancies and
vain imaginings, and how numerous the cities which they
built! At length those vain imaginings were converted into
bullets and aimed at Him Who is the Prince of the world.
[ESW 119]
Also:

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
O Hádí! The blind fanaticism of former times hath withheld
the hapless creatures from the Straight Path. Meditate on the
Shí’ih sect. For twelve hundred years they have cried “O
Qá’im!”, until in the end all pronounced the sentence of His
death, and caused Him to suffer martyrdom. [ESW 163]
In one of His tablets Bahá’u’lláh has revealed:
Since the people are perceived as being weak and veiled by
idle fancies, therefore the Sun of Reality hath appeared as an
atom and the everlasting ocean hath appeared as a drop. Thus
hath the Primal Point appeared assuming the name of
“gatehood.” Even so, the people were discontent with this
lower station, how much more were they discontent by the
claim of velayyat (Vice-regency, Guardianship), whereas all
these stations were created by Him.10 (Provisional Translation by
Foad Seddigh)
Bahá’u’lláh in one of His Tablets says:
It is known to thee that the commentary on the Surih of
Joseph hath been revealed according to the prevailing
understanding of the people of that time. This hath been for
reason of pure bounty, that haply the wayward and the
ignorant would become transported to the realm of
knowledge, because much of that which hath been stated
therein is the truth of the matter for the people of the
Qur’án. Had it been revealed according to that which God
hath desired, no one would have accepted and remained
faithful.
11 (Provisional Translation by Foad Seddigh)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His Tablets says:
Thou asked about the twelfth Imam. This supposition hath
never existed in the material world; it was only a notion
confined to the unseen world, lacking corporal existence.
Some Shi'ah leaders devised a scheme for the protection of
the weak amongst their followers to give Him a physical
identity …
12 (Provisional Translation by Foad Seddigh)

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
The Báb in His book The Seven Proofs says:
Consider the manifold favours vouchsafed by the Promised
One, and the effusions of His bounty which have pervaded
the concourse of the followers of Islam to enable them to
attain unto salvation. Indeed observe how He Who
representeth the origin of creation, He Who is the Exponent
of the verse, 'I, in very truth, am God', identified Himself as
the Gate [Bab] for the advent of the promised Qá'im, a
descendant of Mu˙ammad, and in His first Book enjoined the
observance of the laws of the Qur'án, so that the people
might not be seized with perturbation by reason of a new
Book and a new Revelation and might regard His Faith as
similar to their own, perchance they would not turn away
from the Truth and ignore the thing for which they had been
called into being… [SWB 119]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in A Traveller’s Narrative has written:
He began to speak and to declare the rank of Bábhood. Now
what He intended by the term Báb [Gate] was this, that He
was the channel of grace from some great Person still behind
the veil of glory, Who was the possessor of countless and
boundless perfections, by Whose will He moved, and to the
bond of Whose love He clung. And in the first book which
He wrote in explanation of the súrih of Joseph, He addressed
Himself in all passages to that Person unseen from Whom He
received help and grace, sought for aid in the arrangement of
His preliminaries, and craved the sacrifice of life in the way
of His love. [TN 4]
As one may gather from the above quotes, the main reasons that
the Báb started His ministry with a lesser claim was due to the lack of
spiritual capacity and understanding among the people. He needed,
consequently, time to prepare them for the acceptance of His
ultimate station and revelation. From the observation of such a lesser
claim, a claim that was rejected by the learned, and through their
instigation by the majority of the people, we can safely extrapolate
the dangerous outcome if He had disclosed His complete message and
station at the beginning. It is for the same reason that we notice in

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih, which was revealed in the early period of the
Báb’s ministry, these two types of statements, intended for the
sincere, on the one hand, and the superstitious on the other hand.
The Occultation Prayer
An inquirer asked the Báb to clarify the meaning of the prayer
from the 6th Imám regarding the Testimony of God, which is also
known as the prayer of occultation. In response to his request, the
Báb revealed the “Commentary on the Prayer of Occultation.” The
Prayer is very short and has three lines only:
O my God! Make known to me Thyself! Shouldst Thou enable
me not to recognize Thyself, I would not be able to recognize
Thy Prophet.
O my God! Make known to me Thine Apostle! Shouldst Thou
enable me not to recognize Thine Apostle, I would not be
able to recognize Thy Proof.
O my God! Make known to me thy Proof! Shouldst Thou
enable me not to recognize Thy Proof, I would stray from my
religion.
It should be noted that “testimony” or “proof” is generally a
reference to the revelation; but “Testimony” or “Proof” refers to the
Manifestation of God, or the promised Qá’im.
The Báb's approach in Answering the Question of
“Occultation”
The question of “occultation”, the story of whether the Hidden
Imám was alive or dead, was a complex question, that required
clarification because of its perplexing nature. However, the Báb does
not make any attempt to explain it in historical terms; rather, as we
will see later in the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih, He explains that the
“occultation” occurs when man departs from his everlasting
condition at the time of his creation by God. He says that God
created mankind in His own image. The Báb identifies occultation
with the existential station of forgetting the divine revelation within

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
the human soul, which requires prayer in order to regain true self-
consciousness and to return to his original spiritual condition and
thereby gain purity of heart, thereby discovering the truth.
Major themes in the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
Without pretence to being exhaustive, the following is a list of the
major themes presented in the epistle:
1. The meaning of the recognition of God
2. True belief in the unity of God (towhid)
3. Explanation of the Primal Will
4. The interpretation of “iláh”
5. The claims of the Báb
6. The testimony and proof of His mission
7. The inward meaning of the martyrdom of Imám Óusayn
8. That all things are in the hands of God: His decree, revelation
and the source of His knowledge
9. Why He changed his mind and did not go to Karbilá (badá)
10. Opposition of some of the believers
11. The interdiction for man of asking God about creation
12. The true nature of man
13. The meaning of occultation
14. The interpretation of the letter “Há”
15. The testimony of some of the learned about Him
A Brief Summary of Each Chapter
Since the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih is a commentary on the occultation
prayer, we might expect the Báb to devote the entire fourteen
chapters to the commentary. But even with a cursory glance at the
tablet, we observe that the commentary appears only in chapters 11,
12 and 13. Each of these chapters is devoted to the commentary of
one third or one line of the original prayer and a fourth line is added

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
by the Báb Himself to this prayer in chapter 14. However, the
material
presented
in
other
chapters
is
necessary
for
the
understanding of these four chapters. In other words, these four
chapters without the other ten chapters would be incomplete. We will
present in the following section the important themes treated in each
chapter. The Báb Himself has specified the beginning and end of each
chapter and also has given a title for each chapter.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 1
Title: The Discourse of Illumination and the Glorification
of God
o He states that even Himself cannot adequately praise God.
o He reveals several prayers and meditations.
o He states that everything is/was an act of God, whether
seekers travelling to find Him, their acceptance of His claim,
the humiliation He endured, opposition to Him, etc.
o He alludes to a verse of the Qur’án: “They plotted but God
plotted: and of plotters is God the best.” (Anfals, The Spoils 8:30)
o He admonishes the inquirer by stating: “ Beware, beware! lest
thou look upon any other thing except thy essence of being ….
Certainly, it is your duty to examine the promptings of your
inner heart and its command.” (Provisional Translation by Foad
Seddigh)
o He reminds the inquirer that the condition of occultation is
the station of falling into the abyss of particularistic essence
and forgetting one’s real existence which is the true reality or
spiritual reality of human beings.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 2
Title: Divine Admonition
o This chapter is an admonition to the inquirer who the Báb
encourages to heed His words and to rely upon God such that

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
he becomes liberated from doubts and temptation. The Báb
argues that the matter is confined to two alternatives: either it
is true or false. If he follows the Báb, he follows God; should
he reject His claims, he follows Satan. The inquirer is reminded
when the truth is disclosed to a fair-minded person, he should
not reject it, but when falsehood is mixed with truth, no one
would accept it.
o The Cause of God is like a light that illumines everything. Now
He possesses the Word of God and it sheds light like the sun.
o He is the possessor of God’s testimony and revelation; it is
incumbent on everyone to accept Him without further
questioning.
o The Báb says that He possesses the Testimony of God which is
the Truth. Should the seeker reject it, then he has no sure
handle/firm cord to grasp the truth. Consequently, if any
other “truth” is presented to him, he has no alternative but to
reject it.
o He refers to some Shaykhís who accepted Him and then
changed their mind. Now they worship Satan.
o He speaks kindly about Siyyid Ja‘far Kashfí (the father of
Siyyid Ya˙yá Dárábí, Vahíd). For Siyyid Ja‘far and for Shaykh
A˙mad A˙sá’í, He beseeches God’s mercy.
o He admonishes the seeker that he should have the right
attitude. He says: “Behold the One Who calleth thee unto God.
Should He possess an incontrovertible testimony from His
Lord in such manner that none is able to produce the like
thereof, His cause would then be proven to be true and there
would be no doubt about it. Obey then His words and ask not
why or wherefore . . . Shouldst thou acknowledge His
testimony thou wouldst have no place to flee to, save to obey
Him, even if He calleth night day, poison sugar, false true, and
knowledge ignorance”

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
A Brief Summary of Chapter 3
Title: An Introduction to the Transcendent Glory of God
o He forbids questions about creation because all doors to the
realm of Divinity are closed. Whoever asks such questions has
committed an unforgivable sin.
o Since all roads are barred to the direct recognition of God, the
seeker should strive to ascertain His good-pleasure.
o He refers to Himself as “the Point” (Nuq†ih). To the seeker He
says if you know the references to the Point and follow it, you
will attain unto all knowledge. (Actually He refers to the
Primal Will). He refers to the philosophers who called God the
First Cause/Uncaused Cause. He says it was the Primal Will
that created the world of existence; the Primal Will created
itself. He refers to this realm as that of the Manifestations of
God. He refers in a subtle way to His ultimate station.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 4
Title: Mentioning the prayer of Occultation.
o He identifies the reference for the occultation prayer and
attributes it to Imám Ja‘far Ṣádiq.
o He affirms that the knowledge of religion is for man to know
himself and to know that which God has endowed the being of
man.
o In the beginning, the creation of man was perfect. In the
beginning man was self-sufficient. He possessed all required
knowledge for this existence. Then he deviated from the
original condition of his creation.
o He reminds the seeker that all sins will be forgiven except
questions about the origin of creation.
o A true believer has such a high station that it would be
impossible to fully describe.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
o Once the believer accepts the interdiction not to inquire of
God concerning creation, then certain conditions are
incumbent upon anyone who supplicates God: to recognize the
oneness of God; to acknowledge His names and attributes; to
recognize for oneself and others His commands and
interdictions. Once the seeker possesses this knowledge, his
prayer will be answered.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 5
Theme: The Dawning of the Morn of Eternity
o It starts with the Qur’ánic verse: (Qasas, The Story 28:30) “And
when he came up to it, a Voice cried to him out of the bush
from the right side of the valley in the sacred hollow, “O
Moses, I truly am God, the Lord of the Worlds”, followed by
Ikhlas-The Unity 112:1-4: “SAY: He is God alone: God the
eternal! He begetteth not, and He is not begotten; And there is
none like unto Him.”
o What follows is a lengthy chapter concerning the true meaning
of the Towhid.
o Unacceptability of asking God a question concerning creation.
o The real meaning of the recognition of God.
o At the end of the chapter, he reiterates a discourse by Imám
Ri∂á on the unity of God in one of his debates.
o True recognition of the essence of God is impossible except by
God Himself.
o If anyone says that he manifests God, he has lied.
o The names and attributes of God apply to the realm of
creation.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
A Brief Summary of Chapter 6
Theme: Of the Mystery of Eternity
o This is also one of the longer chapters of the epistle. This
chapter starts by quoting the famous verse from the Qur’án
(Nur, Light 24: 35): “God is the LIGHT of the Heavens and of the
Earth. His Light is like a niche in which is a lamp — the lamp
encased in glass the glass, as it were, a glistening star. From a
blessed tree is it lighted, the olive neither of the East nor of
the West, whose oil would well-nigh shine out, even though
fire touched it not! It is light upon light. God guideth whom
He will to His light, and God setteth forth parables to men,
for God knoweth all things.” He explains the real meaning of
this verse and then continues with a dream of His own.
o He interprets the light referred to in the above verse to be the
Primal Will.
o Whoever claims that he has “known” the reality of the Prophet
Mu˙ammad runs the risk of claiming His station. In other
words, we cannot know or understand the true stations of the
Manifestations of God.
o Whoever calls upon God has a duty to know the Prophet
Mu˙ammad.
o He explains that on 12
Mu˙arram 1262. A.H. (February, 1845)
He had a dream. He dreamt there were many books around
Him. When He opened one of them, He saw dust from the
tomb of the Imám Óusayn inside a paper wrapping. On
opening it, He saw sacred writing in red ink at the end of
which was a star bearing the inscription: “I leave all my affairs
in Thy hand”. He tried to memorize the sacred verses, but
when He awoke He had forgotten everything except four
words, one of which was “Ma‘súd”. He interprets this word by
explicating the letters that compose the word.
o He mentions that at the time of writing of this chapter, it was
Mu˙arram, four days after the anniversary of the
martyrdom of Imám Óusayn, and He was grief stricken. He

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
then relates what Imám Óusayn uttered while standing by the
tomb of his grandfather, the Prophet Mu˙ammad, at the time
of His leaving Medina for Kúfih where martyrdom was
awaiting him.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 7
Theme: The Beautiful Names of God
o The subject is the recognition and interpretation of the
beautiful names of God.
o He mentions the verse from the Qur’án (Al Araf 7:180): “Most
excellent titles hath God: by these call ye on Him, and stand
aloof from those who pervert his titles. For what they have
done shall they be repaid!”
o Whatever thing has a name is a manifestation of one of God’s
names.
o God desired to be known by creating the divine names and
attributes.
o This ˙adith is quoted from the Imáms: “We are the beautiful
names of God; nothing will be accepted by God except through
our recognition.”
o One of the names of God is “huvá” (= He is God). It is the
great name of God. “Huvá” consists of two letters of “Há = ھ”
and “vav =و ”. The number associated with the letter “há” is
11. With a point in front of it, it becomes 110, the number of
the Báb's name ‘Alí. He claims that this beautiful name of God
refers to Him. He encourages the seeker to cling to this
beautiful name, that is, to cling unto Him.
o The Qur’án mentions: “He is the great announcement” whom
you have turned against. This refers to the Báb.
o He quotes a tradition stated by Ráhíb from Imám Ja‘far Ṣádiq
who said there were eight letters, four in the heaven and four
on the earth that the Qá’im will interpret. Ráhíb asked for two
of the four. Ṣádiq’s response was that he would let him know

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
all four. The first one is the divine unity (there is no God save
God); the second is the Prophet Mu˙ammad; the third refers to
the Imáms; the fourth refers to the Shí‘ah. The Báb says that
the Shí‘ah means the perfect man. (One of the titles of the Báb
was the “fourth support” or “forth rukn”). He says that one of
His titles is the intermediary between the hidden Imám and the
believers.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 8
Theme: The Great Signs of God
o He quotes the verse from the Qur’án (Sád 38: 67-70): “SAY: this
is a weighty message, From which ye turn aside! Yet had I no
knowledge of what passed among the celestial chiefs
(Concourse on High) when they disputed; Verily, it hath been
revealed to me only because I am a public preacher.”
o He
calls
Himself
the
“weighty
message,”
i.e.
Great
Announcement, mentioned in the above verse. He affirms that
He places all His trust on “the Remnant of God”. The
expression of “Remnant of God” appears in the Shí‘ah
traditions (˙adíth) not in the Qur’án. The Báb refers to it in
the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá.
o He addresses the seeker as “O he who has insight!” He draws
his attention to the Shí‘ah tradition that the Qá’im speaks the
words: “The Remnant of God is beneficial to you”. He says the
Remnant of God is guiding Him.
o He quotes a tradition from Imám ‘Alí who says: “The
enlightened recognition of me is the same as the recognition of
God”. In the visitation prayer of Imám ‘Alí this verse appears:
“Whatever is decided by the “Testimony of God” is the
unalterable decree.” He reminds the seeker that the allusions
made here are finer than a chalice filled with clear wine.
o He says there is a commonly accepted tradition that says
should a man die without recognizing the Imám of his time, he
has died the death of jáhiliyyih, i.e. a reference to the days of
ignorance of the idol worshippers in pre-Islamic Arabia.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
A Brief Summary of Chapter 9
Theme: The Great Bounties of God
o He quotes a verse from the Qur’án (Rahman 55: 13): “ Which
then of the bounties of your Lord will ye twain deny?”
o He interprets the verse that the greatest favours of God are the
kindred of Mu˙ammad and the Shí‘ah Imáms. He calls Himself
the last light from the kindred of the Imám. Then He describes
five stations for them. He expresses His wish to be living near
the tomb of Imám Óusayn.
o He enters into detailed and complex numerical tafsir (deriving
explanations from numerical assignments to words according
to Abjad letters) related to these stations.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 10
Theme: The Explanation of the Beginning and the End. i.e.
of this World and the Next
o This is the longest chapter in the epistle. It expounds the
beginning of man's life and its end. i.e. the status of man at his
creation and his return to God at the end of his earthly life. He
also explains the real inner meaning of the martyrdom of the
Imám Óusayn, as distinguished from his obvious physical
martyrdom. The writing of this chapter coincided with the
tenth day of Mu˙arram, the date of the martyrdom of the
Imám Óusayn. He discusses the divinity of the Imám Óusayn.
He quotes one reputable ˙adíth from ibn-i-‘Abbás, who stated
that when Imám Óusayn was leaving Mecca for Iraq, he saw
the archangel Gabriel holding Imám Óusayn's hand. Gabriel
said that whosoever has supported the Imám, it is as though he
has supported God. The Báb explains the inner/hidden
meaning of the martyrdom of Imám Óusayn, i.e. the people
would shed tears for Me in My afflictions (the Báb) at the
hands of My enemies. The martyrdom of the Imám Óusayn was
the fulfilment of the first blast on the trumpet. A Qur’ánic
verse says there will be two blasts of the trumpet.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
o He explains the mystery of the number of 72, i.e. the number
of companions of the Imám Óusayn at the time of his
martyrdom. The Báb relates these verses to His life.
o He explains the mystery of the tenth of Mu˙arram when the
Imám Óusayn was martyred in the year 61 A.H. He says that it
was on a Friday. He relates the events surrounding the
martyrdom to Himself. He refers to His condition at the hands
of His enemies which is more grievous than that of Imám
Óusayn. If the Imám Óusayn received 950 wounds from bows,
arrows and spears, the Báb maintains that His suffering is
greater.
o
He refers to the words of Javád Valíání the Khuvár as the
lowing of a calf. He says that he and people like him among
the learned who opposed the Báb could not reveal even a single
verse. He affirms that He could conquer the east and the west.
Then He states His desire for martyrdom. These verses
Bahá’u’lláh has quoted in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
Likewise, in His interpretation of the letter “Há,” He
craved martyrdom, saying: “Methinks I heard a Voice
calling in my inmost being: ‘Do thou sacrifice the thing
which Thou lovest most in the path of God, even as
Óusayn, peace be upon him, hath offered up his life for
My sake.’ And were I not regardful of this inevitable
mystery, by Him, Who hath my being between His hands
even if all the kings of the earth were to be leagued
together they would be powerless to take from me a single
letter, how much less can these servants who are worthy of
no attention, and who verily are of the outcast... That all
may know the degree of My patience, My resignation, and
self-sacrifice in the path of God.” (KI 231-232)
o He makes no claim except servitude. He says He has revealed
10 books and 4 epistles. In order to stress the potency of His
writings and lack of capacity of the majority of people to
appreciate His spiritual authority, He states that any ordinary
man who could have one of His 14 books and epistle in his
hands would have conquered the world.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
o He mentions that if a member of the learned (‘ulamá) writes a
simple epistle on some minor aspect of Islam, thousands of
people will follow him. The faithful believe that the
repudiation of such an epistle would be tantamount to
repudiation of God. Although His Cause is like the sun at its
zenith, the people do not pay any attention to Him and arise
to oppose Him vehemently. The Báb laments the spiritual
blindness of such people.
o He ends this chapter with 61 lines of a poem modelled on the
battle cry of the Imám Óusayn.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 11
Theme: Commentary on the First One-Third of the Prayer
(First Line of the Prayer)
o God's knowledge encompasses all things. Its outward, plain
sense meaning is the same as its inner meaning and vice versa.
Only God Himself knows the true meanings of the divine
verses.
o He begins with the interpretation of the first word of the first
line of the prayer and expounds the letters of the alphabet that
form the word. It starts with “alláhuma =اﻟﻠﮭﻢ
”, “O my God!”
He interprets the letters of the alphabet “alif”, “lám”, “há”,
“mim”, etc. which form the first word. For an example, in the
interpretation of “alif,” He gives different elucidations to the
letter alif, the standing alif that refers to the Manifestation of
God (This letter of alphabet looks like a vertical line — thus
“standing alif”).
o He addresses the seeker stating that to recognize God two
processes are involved: one through your own manifest being.
This cannot be accomplished by posing questions. The second
process is to recognize God through your essence of being
(máhíyyat). This can be done only through lowliness and by
accepting one's weakness and God’s decree. He further
explains that the recognition of God through the first process
involves man’s eternal station; the second process involves the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
station of servitude. From this explanation one may gather
that He says that to know God, one has to show meekness and
then follow the Manifestation of God who reflects the Primal
Will without questioning His words or deeds.
o He states that true recognition of God will not be complete
without the recognition of the Manifestation of God; the
recognition of the Manifestation of God is not complete
without the recognition of His vice-regent; the recognition of
His vice-regent is not complete except by recognizing “the
peerless Shí‘ah”. By “the peerless Shí‘ah,” He means the Báb.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 12
Theme: Interpretation of the Second Third (Second Line of
the Prayer)
o This chapter starts with a prayer referring to the unity of God.
o This chapter interprets mainly the recognition and station of
Mu˙ammad, the Manifestation of God.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 13
Theme: Interpretation of the Third One-Third (Third line
of the Prayer)
o The main theme of this chapter is the “testimony/proof” which
He establishes as the revelation of the divine verses.
o He mentions a letter which He received from someone named
Mu˙ammad Ja‘far, which originally He did not intend to
answer because this individual was attempting to debate Him
and to test His authority and knowledge. He answers that it
would not be possible for Him to make such a claim if He did
not have the required testimony. The only other person who
would make such a claim would be a person who is devoid of
intelligence. He says He has revealed voluminous works
without resorting to cognition because it came immediately
through divine revelation. He says that He has not attended

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
schools, but that He possesses the key to the door of all
knowledge.
o He makes the interesting statement that He is one of the
students of Siyyid Kázim. In this epistle and elsewhere, He has
mentioned that He has not acquired the knowledge that is
current amongst the learned. This statement should not be
taken as an affirmation that he acquired knowledge from
Siyyid Kázim, but rather it confirms his former teacher’s great
station by paying him homage. We know that He stayed for
seven months only in Karbilá; he did not attend the Siyyid’s
classes on any regular basis in that city.
o He exhorts the seeker to give His greetings to His followers.
He states that He knows no word issuing from the realm of the
Unseen, but whatever He needs to know is given to Him by
God.
o To anyone who would debate the Báb, He advises that He
would not answer any question unless it met certain criteria.
The seeker should fall among three classes of people (For the
sake of brevity, no further explanation about three classes
could be given here). He then provides twelve admonishments
from Imám ‘Alí who has taken them from Torah. He explains
each one in turn.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 14
Theme: Avoiding Unbelievers and Those who show Enmity
to the New Cause
o He adds a fourth line to the occultation prayer which reads: “O
my God! Make known to me the Gate to Thy Testimony!
Shouldst Thou not enable me to recognize Thy Gate, I would
go astray.” The Báb has argued that the greatest testimony is
the revelation of divine verses. According to the Shí‘ah, the
Testimony is the Twelfth Imám.
o Whoever doubts the command “Avoid the enemies of the
Cause,” will bring misery on himself and become the enemy of
God.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
o Almost half of the chapter is devoted to quoting the
testimonials from four people who have supported the truth
of His Cause. These four people are Shaykh A˙mad-i A˙sá’í,
Siyyid Kázim Rashti, ‘Abdu’l-Kháliq, and Mu˙ammad ‘Alí
Qazvíní.
Conclusion
In this paper Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih was introduced and its essential
characteristics was given. Furthermore, for its better understanding,
relevant background information was introduced and analyzed. A
brief content of each of its fourteen chapters was presented.
Acknowledgement
The author gratefully acknowledges the assistance of Dr. Omid
Ghaemmaghami and Mr. Jack McLean in preparation of this paper.



NOTES
1 Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, (n.p., Wilfrid Laurier University Press,
2008), pp. 37-41.
2 This study is based on a particular manuscript of the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
created from three different hand written unpublished manuscripts which
the author of this paper could find; they are as follows:
1. Manuscript in the Iranian National Baha'i Archives (INBA #60) pp.
57-154
2. Manuscript in the Iranian National Baha'i Archives (INBA #98) pp.
48-111
3. Manuscript in the Babi collection of Princeton University
Manuscript #228; pp. 1-60
It seems it is adequate for the sake of this study. There are nearly three
hundred textual variations and differences in these three manuscripts;
these errors which cause the variations in the three manuscripts have
arisen from the carelessness of those who transcribed them and were not
intentional. This study is a first step towards further studies and research

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih


to be done in the future in order to prepare an authentic manuscript for
the epistle.
3 Nabíl-i A‘ẓam, Mullá Mu˙ammad Zarandí, The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl's
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation, translated and
edited by Shoghi Effendi. (New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1932), p. 669.
4 A.L.M. Nicolas, Siyyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad dit le Báb. (Paris: Librairie
Critique, 1908), pp. 17–25.
5 These individuals were known as 'Gates' (Abwáb). The first was (‘Uthmán-
ibn-Sa‘íd Umarí (260-265 A.H.); the second Muhammad-ibn-i-‘Uthmán,
son of the above (265-305 A.H.); the third was Óusayn -ibn-i-Rú˙ Náw-
bakhtí (305-326 A.H.); the fourth was ‘Alí-ibn-i- Mu˙ammad Simarí (326-
329 A.H.). Of these 'gates', the first was appointed by the Imám Óasan-i
‘Askarí. The others were appointed by the then acting 'gate' with the
sanction and approval of the Hidden Imám. This period extended over 69
years during which the Imám was still accessible by means of the 'gates.'
This period is known as the 'Lesser' or 'Minor Occultation' (Ghaybat-i-
Sughra). This was succeeded by the 'Greater' or 'Major Occultation'
(Ghaybat-i-Kubra).
6 Abbas Amanat, Iran: A Modern History. (New Haven: Yale University
Press, 2017), pp. 62-69.
7 Ibid pp. 199-210
8 Jabulqa and Jabulsa are two mythological cities mentioned in the Shí‘ah
˙adíth. These cities were inhabited by archetypal believers who are waiting
for the appearance of the promised Qá’im for the Shí‘ah. According to
some ˙adíth the Qá’im will inhabit these cities. Each city has 12,000 gates,
each of which is guarded by 12,000 men until the Day of Resurrection
when the Qa'im will appear.
9 All the quotes from Qur’án in this paper are according to its translation by
J.M. Rev. Rodwell.
10 La’álí Óikmat, vol. II. (Bahá’í Publishing of Brazil, 1990), p. 60.
11 Ayát-i Iláhí, vol. II, A Compilation of Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.
(Langenheim: Bahá’í Publishing Trust of Germany, 1990), p. 68.
12 Assadulláh-Fadil Mázandarání, Amr Va Khalq, vol. II, Mu’assisih Matbuát
Amri. (Langenheim and Tehran, Reprint by Bahá’í Publishing Trust of
Germany, 141 B.E.), p. 221.
13 Todd Lawson and Omid Ghaemmaghami, eds; A Most Noble Pattern:
Collected Essays on the Writings of the Báb. (Oxford: Bahá’í Studies
Series, George Ronald, 2012), paper by Nader Saiedi, p 212.

A Commentary on the Occultation
Prayer, or Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
The Báb
Provisional translation by Foad Seddigh
Chapter One: The Discourse of Illumination
In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful! Praise be
unto God Who hath testified to His Essence with His Essence that
there is no God except Him Who hath been exalted through His
Supreme Self over all things, Who is hidden by His transcendent
revelation from all things, Who hath been without remembrance of
anything from time immemorial, and Who is now the same as He hath
been in the past, that there hath not been with Him the remembrance
of anything. He Who is Worshipped, as the Incomparable, the Self-
Subsisting, He Who made knowledge an attribute for His servants
and power and might a station for His chosen Ones. He is the First
without the recognition of anything and the Last without the
remembrance of anything. He is manifest without the creation of
anything and the innermost reality of things without the injunction
of anything. Should I say that verily He is Who He is, the
Excogitation and that which pertaineth to it would discredit Me;
because He is not recognized by anyone except Himself and cannot
be described by His creation. Should I say that Thou art Who Thou
art, the Contrivance, and that which is facing it is disputing Me;
because, He is not described through acclamation, nor may be

Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
pointed to because of not being seen. He is sanctified! Verily His
Essence leads to His Essence, His pre-existence is established by His
momentary existence. He hath been barred from His creation and His
Being hath been concealed in veils before His servants. Should any
man say: “He is Who He is”, the letter “há” leadeth to the creation
and the letter “váv” to the decree; this is the proof for His being
substantially cut off from others and greatly being debarred. Should
he say: “He is Who He is” and I know not His Station, he hath joined
partner with his Lord after knowing that he is severed from Him.
Which unbelief is greater than the Word “He is”? Which trespass may
outweigh that of the non-existent approaching the Absolute
Existence? He is sanctified far beyond how I may describe Him
without thanking Him, and beyond knowing Him without praising
Him; though after denial, My words prove to be the condition of
description. I swear by His Might! It is not the case; there is no path
drawn between Him and anything else. I mean by denial nothing else
but denial, and in remembering Him nothing else except helplessness.
Sanctified is He! How great is My boldness before His Beauty and
how great is My transgression in face of His majesty. In My
contemplation, definitely, I hold Him sanctified from the description
of all else except Him. This is My description of His majesty. With
the knowledge of being debarred from Him, I hold Him Holy beyond
the commendation of all else except Him and this is my praise for His
Beauty. He is sanctified from this path. Should I say: “well is it with
Me”, I have joined partner with Him and should I say: “woe betide
Me”, I have become unfaithful. I know not how to express My
hopelessness and which words to use to admit My transgression.
Sanctified is God, the Incomparable, the Single! Should I immerse
Myself in the ocean of His praise, notwithstanding being accounted
amongst the infidels in His sight, it would fill My heart with such
love that I would be silent and drowned in the ocean of remoteness.
No by His exalted Being! Should My heart be consumed in My
extreme disloyalty, by His Might! Certainly, it would not take away
My pleasure for praising His greatness. However, I would be content
with the burning of My heart as a result of my boldness. No by His
greatness! Verily, I know that there is no path for Me to tread
towards Him, not by helplessness, not by praise, not by prohibition,
not by glory, not by severance, not by extreme light, not by the letter
“há” and not by fleeing away from letter “váv”. Sanctified is God!

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
That which He hath created in Me is wonderful and that which He
hath inspired within Me is exalted. Once He enraptureth Me towards
the horizon of the Hidden Realm and another time He annihilateth
Me with the fire of non-consciousness. I know not that which Thou
seekest from Me; is it My blood that Thou wishest to be spilled or is
it Me Who desireth to draw Himself nigh unto Thee, then Thou
drivest Me away and then by running away from Thy Might Thou
punishest Me? I know not on which path Thou standest so that I can
call Thee, and I know not which words to use to ask Thy favor and
complain to Thee. No by Thy Might! I flee not from nearness to
Thee, shouldst Thou drive Me away. No by Thy Being! I fear not Thy
overpowering Might even if Thou wouldst burn Me up. No by Thy
power! I have no request from anyone else except Thee even shouldst
Thou make me needy towards it. Sanctified is God in His command.
Whatever I experience, I will endure it within Me and there is
nothing more exalted in My heart than His sovereignty. Should I flee
away like a child of tender age, likewise, He would place sugar in My
mouth to calm My tears, then He would place the breast of His
mercy in my mouth to make me go to sleep. No by Thy might! I am
not unaware of that which Thou wouldst do, and I do not busy
Myself with such conditions away from Thee. I know not which
object Thou dost want for Me; would it be that Thou wantest to take
away My life or would it be to make My inner being happy?
I was residing in My house alone and no one had any knowledge of
Me. Thou induced some people to leave their abode and Thou hast
brought them to arrive at My place; then Thou revealed unto Me the
decree of Thy call and bestowed upon Me Thy Proof. No sooner had
Thy knowledge reached Me than Thou didst take Thy Covenant from
the hearts of all those who had become aware of Thy command and
made them submit to Thee to such an extent that none of them who
had travelled denied My claim. Thou didst then take them back to
their places of residence and Thou dispensed to Me after that the
honor of travelling towards Thy Respectful House and Thou
extended Thy command to the hands of Thy kings on earth in every
direction until My Cause reached the east and the west and in
between them. As soon as the faith of Thy servants grew stronger and
everyone knew the decree of the heart, Thou made Me return from
Thy Respectful House; consonant with this condition, Thou desired
that mischief arise in the cities and by the inhabitants of such cities

Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
until the opposition of them who turned against the Cause descended
upon Me and the chosen ones. Then, Thou brought Me in the utmost
humiliation in the presence of tyrants, then Thou inspired Me with
the word of negation after affirmation in order to make Me secure
from life-threatening positions. Are these not all of Thy making, O
Thou the Possessor of Majesty and Favor? Verily, O my God! Thou
transported Me to the supernal realm from the beginning of the
Cause and Thou placed Me in different situations; then Thou placed
the word of denial in the hearts of Satanic people until the enemies
grabbed whatever they had written. Verily, I did not intend in what I
wrote except the specific station of appointed gate-hood yet gate-
hood is in reality an absolute word that falleth into limitation by such
specification. By Thy Might! They did not scheme against My decree
but I was swift in scheming in their affairs. If I had affirmed them
like the earlier believers, they would not have treated Me with
enmity. However, any affliction I suffer, I see it but as coming from
Thee; because Thou hast power over its transmutation or turning it
around in the best possible way. The reason that I have endured
humiliation is because Thou hast been patient with Me despite having
knowledge and being in the position of power. However, Thou
knowest O My God that I do not like to act contrary to Thy Will and
am aware of Thy patience with respect to those who art nigh unto
Thee but I have no power over Thy ways for dealing with them and
verily, I am not ashamed before Thee as Thou art potent to decree
for Me to pursue an action and then change it without being in a
position of contradiction. In such case, I will bring My action to an
end even if My words might be similar to those of wrongdoers. And
knowing My inner being which is intoxicated by Thy bestowals and
by the wine of being thankful to Thee, I call Thee with these verses
which do not trespass the limit of praise; however, they are not
beyond the decree of a change of plan. Sanctified art Thou! I praise
Thee in misery and distress; a praise which is shedding light, is bright,
and is sanctified with the sanctity of Thy realm of eternity and Thy
divine unity. I seek assistance from Thee with what Thou purposed in
this book with Thy strength and power. Thou art the Generous, the
All-Praised.
I bear witness to Thee with that which Thou lovest and art made
happy before manifesting what is in the world of existence. Thou art
the All-Informed, the Witness and Thou art sufficient unto Me as a

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
witness. I bear witness that there is no other God except Him alone,
there is no partner with Him, and verily Muhammad, the salutation
of God be upon Him and His kindred, is Thy servant; no one is like
Him and He is Thy Messenger Who is exalted above being similar to
anyone. He conveyed to the people that which Thou manifested
within Him from Thy knowledge, and provided admonishment to the
people from that which Thou inspired Him in the path of Thy love. O
My God! Reward Him and His kindred as They deserve. I bear witness
to the Regents of Muhammad, Thy Beloved, as Thou hast purposed
for them and provided help for them in every condition through Thy
bounty from Thy Own self and Thou art numbering them as letters of
Thy divine unity. Verily, Thou art the All-Mighty, the All-Wise. I
bear witness for their followers that which Thy knowledge
surrounded them in the arc of descent and Thy mystery in the arc of
ascent, for every truth with rightfulness and for every untruth with
denial, and Thou art sufficient unto Me and art witness and aware
unto Me. O thou who examinest this book! Beware, beware! lest thou
look upon any other thing except thy essence of being when the birds
invoked with melodious tunes, the peoples with the visible objects,
the minds with the world of existence, and the hearts with the clear
testimonies; certainly it is your duty to examine the promptings of
your inner heart and its command. We are from God and towards
Our Lord We shall turn and those who act should conduct themselves
like this.

An Analysis of the Salient Features of
Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
Foad Seddigh1
Abstract
The Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih (see a partial provisional translation
following this paper) is one of the major writings of the Báb, about a
quarter in length of Commentary on the Surih of Joseph (Qayyúmu’l-
Asmá). Although not exclusively, it concerns the commentary on a
particular Islamic prayer for the advent of the promised Qá’im,
(Óujjat), written entirely in Arabic. It has fourteen chapters and was
revealed on or about 10 January, 1846 CE. We can be sure that this
tablet was revealed towards the end of the Shíráz period of His
Ministry. Despite the fact that the Báb was not incarcerated at the
time of revealing this epistle, none-the-less, He was prohibited from
meeting with His followers. In this tablet, He expressed the hope that
the restrictions on Him will be lifted and that He will be able to teach
His followers in person. The Islamic prayer for which this
commentary is written is only three short phrases long. His
commentary appears specifically in chapters 11, 12 and 13 of the
epistle, and it quotes certain words or phrases and expounds their real
meaning. It should be noted that the Báb had not formally disclosed
His complete station of prophethood to the general public at the
time of the revelation of this epistle. Therefore, in other chapters of
the commentary, He alludes to His full station discreetly, and only
those who had the necessary spiritual perception could grasp His
subtle allusions.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Some of the significant themes in this work are as follows: He
refers to various episodes in His ministry, including the successive
tribulations that have befallen Him in Shíráz, and He comments on
the meaning of the letter “Há’”. On a number of occasions, He
asserts that He has not attended any schools and whatever He has
revealed is from God. He laments that the Shaykhís who attained His
presence failed to recognize Him; He forbids any questions about the
Essence of God, criticizes those philosophers who have contended
that the Divine Essence is the First Cause. He further expounds that
the cause of creation is the Primal Will. He asserts that His call is the
same call that arose from the Burning Bush on Mount Sinai. He
elucidates the meaning of the “light” in the famous verse of the
Qur’án. He relates and interprets a dream He experienced on the
night of 12 Mu˙arram. He lauds the station of the Remnant of God
(Baqyyat'ulláh) and stresses that He has thus far disclosed only some
of the truths which He possesses. He declares further that even if all
the rulers of the earth were to arise against Him, they would be
powerless to resist His Cause or frustrate His purpose. He declares
that He yearns to lay down His life in the same manner that Imám
Óusayn did in the path of God. He interprets in the eleventh, twelfth,
and thirteenth chapters, the three parts of the aforementioned prayer,
explicating the conditions of true prayer. In this paper some of the
above points have been explicated further. A provisional translation
of Chapter One follows the article.
Introductory Remarks
Contents of the Epistle
This epistle, a commentary on an Islamic prayer concerning the
advent of the Promised Qá’im (He who arises), answers the questions
of a seeker. It should be noted that several writings of the Báb
particularly in the early period of His ministry are revealed in the
form of Qur’án commentaries. Many Muslim scholars have written
commentaries on the entire Qur’án or even isolated words and
phrases of the Prophet or the Imáms, as they explicate the various
meaning of those same phrases. It should be noted that the
commentaries of the Báb are different in nature from the past. In His
writings, we are not dealing with the interpretive paraphrase of

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
successive generations of believers, but with the corpus of His own
written works, revealed in an entirely new light. Ascertaining the
authenticity of the Sacred Text is no longer an insoluble issue as it
was in previous Dispensations, when it was virtually impossible to
know which parts of the Scripture accurately represented the
Prophet's words and which passages took the form of paraphrase,
interpretation, or even error due to the vagaries or the oral
tradition.
1 The general features of this epistle are given below:
Its Name
Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih. Apart from this name, it is known as “Shar˙-i
Du‘á’-i-Ghaybat” or “Commentary on the Occultation Prayer”,
“Sa˙ifih-i Ja'fariyyih”, and “Tafsír-i-Há”, i.e. Interpretation of the
Letter “Há”. The tablet derives its name from Imám Ja‘far, the
truthful. In the first few years of His Ministry, the Báb named His
writings after the fourteen Immaculates, i.e. the Prophet Mu˙ammad;
Fá†imih, the Prophet’s daughter; ‘Alí, the Prophet’s son-in-law,
cousin, and the first Imám; Óasan son of ‘Alí , the second Imám;
Óusayn son of ‘Alí, the third Imám; this is followed by Imám
Óusayn's son and after him by his descendants who form the rest of
the Immaculates. This epistle is named after the sixth Imám whose
name is Ja‘far.
o Length: About one hundred pages
o Language: Arabic
o Time and Place of Revelation: In the month of
Mu˙arram, 1262 AH or January, 1846, in Shíráz.
o Name of the Addressee: Unknown
o Chapters: Fourteen
o Manuscript: The author of this paper has not come across
an authentic text of the epistle in the original language either
in hand-written or in printed form
o Significance: It clarifies the meaning of “occultation”. The
compelling tone of the epistle will allow us to appreciate its
spiritual value.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Significance of the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
The following list is a compilation of several indicators pointing
to the importance of the epistle:
1. First and foremost, Bahá’u’lláh has quoted in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
(Book of Certitude) from this epistle
(KI 231).
2. The Guardian has listed in the Dawn-Breakers under the title of
“the Most Important Writings of the Báb,” 23 items from
among the best-known works of the Báb. In that list, Risáliy-i-
Ja‘faríyyih is item number ten.3
3. The length of the epistle and the significant nature of the
material presented makes it worthy of our attention.
4. Selections from this epistle are among the few writings of the
Báb that A.L.M. Nicolas has translated, discussed and published
in the introduction to his French translation of the Persian
Bayán.4
5. The early claims of the Báb which form the basis for His later
claims are expounded in this epistle.
6. He calls Himself “Óujjat” meaning the “Testimony” or “Proof”
in this epistle. If we pay close attention, we discover that His
future claims to be the Qá’im and an independent
Manifestation of God are subtly set out in this epistle.
Background Information
Background information which is briefly stated below allows us to
gain a better understanding of the contents of this epistle.
The Qá’im and Mihdí in Islám
The Qá’im and Mihdí are central to the religion of Islam and its
belief-system. Muslims believe that Mu˙ammad is the last prophet.
However, they believe in the return of a few holy figures. Sunnis
believe in the advent of the Mihdí; the Shí‘ahs believe in the
appearance of Qá’im. Many signs and portents are associated with
the appearance of these promised figures. Among them are: to restore
true religion; to herald the end of one age and the beginning of

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
another; to witness the coming of a living guide to bring humanity
back to the straight path; to hear two trumpet blasts; to witness the
days of judgement and resurrection.
Imams in Shí’ah Islam
Shí‘ah means “the follower”. The appointment of the successor to
the Prophet Mu˙ammad is very much in dispute. Since the Prophet
Mu˙ammad did not have a surviving son, the Shí‘ah accepted ‘Alí as
the first Imám and the grand-children of the Prophet Mu˙ammad,
Óasan and Óusayn, as the second and third Imáms, respectively. The
rest of the Imáms are: the son of Óusayn and successively down the
line from the descendants of Imám Óusayn up to the eleventh Imám,
Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí. Uncertainties surround the appearance of the
twelfth Imám, i.e. the son of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí. From a historical
perspective, we are confronted with several hard facts which are
difficult to reject. First, Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí died at the young age
of 28 years. Second, he had no wife, only a maid-servant. Third, when
he died in the year 260 A.H, he had no grown son to appoint as his
successor Imám. Fourth, he did not appoint a successor. Fifth, most
chronicles state that when he died, he had no apparent heir. His
possessions were consequently divided between his brother and his
mother. Sixth, his relatively few followers, at least compared to other
sects of Islám, were divided into fourteen different factions as a
result of the prevailing circumstances. One faction believed in the
existence and disappearance of the child-Imám, a point that will be
discussed further below.
Imáms as Qá’im
Many Shí‘ahs believed that each of the aforementioned Imáms was
the Promised Qá’im who was supposed to usher in a glorious era for
Islám. Based on this belief, these followers asked the Imáms if they
were the promised Qá’im. The answer of the Imáms was naturally
negative. They explained the several reasons why they could not
qualify to be the promised Qá’im. These reasons are reported in the
collections of Óadíth of the Shí‘ahs. The prayer which is the subject
of the commentary by the Báb is given by the sixth Imám (Imám
Ja‘far, the truthful). This prayer in essence asks God to facilitate in

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
granting to the faithful the knowledge of the promised Qá’im. We
will discuss this prayer further below.
Twelfth Imám
Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí, the eleventh Imám, was imprisoned or was
placed under house arrest by the Abbasid Caliph; it is reported that he
died in 260 A.H. in the prison, a fact which is universally upheld and
undisputed. The point of contact between Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí and
the body of the believers was his deputy (‘Uthmán-ibn-Sa‘íd). When
Imám Óasan died at the age of 28, there was overwhelming
uncertainty among his followers because he had no apparent wife (he
had a handmaid), and no son old enough to be appointed as his
successor. To be more precise, there has been no solid evidence to
believe that he had a son who was alive at the time of his death. There
are some ˙adiths (verbal utterance of the Prophets and the Imáms
recorded years later) which state that his maid bore him a son in the
year 255 A.H., but there is no evidence that he was alive in the year
260 A.H; on the contrary, the mounting evidence points to the
opposite. This is why after the death of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí his
followers were divided into nearly fourteen branches, one of which
accepted the child-Imám to be the successor to Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí
as the twelfth Imám. The brother of Imám Óasan, whose name was
Ja‘far, challenged the system with which he was intimately associated
and claimed that his brother did not have any child at all and claimed
that Imám's possessions should be divided between him and the
mother of the deceased Imám; he further claimed that he was the
lawful successor to the Imám. Some people accepted his claim and
followed him, forming one of the fourteen branches of the Shí‘ah
after the death of Imám Óasan. Later on, he was denounced and
called Ja‘far the liar, in spite of the fact that he was the most truthful
person in the world.
The Minor and Major Occultations
After the death of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí, it is said that the child-
Imám who was hidden in an underground passage, and who was not
more than five years old, appointed the deputy of Imám Óasan
(‘Uthmán-ibn-i Sa‘íd) as his own deputy, through whom the believers

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
should communicate with him. Ná’íb means deputy. Another name
for the deputy was the “Báb” (Gate) to the Imám. If we approach this
matter logically, in reality, there was no legitimate, living Imám to
communicate with the body of believers. It is more likely that all
communications were composed and issued by the deputy himself in
the name of an imaginary Imám, who did not physically exist.
Uthmán-ibn-Sa‘íd, just before his death, issued a letter relayed from
the hidden Imám stating that he was appointing Mu˙ammad-ibn-i
‘Uthmán (the deputy's son) as the Imám's deputy, in a similar manner
by which the third and fourth deputies were appointed.5 Thus a span
of sixty nine years lapsed. During this period no one except the
deputies could communicate with the hidden Imám. This sixty-nine-
year period from 260-329 A.H. is called the Minor Occultation. Near
the time of the death of the fourth deputy, a letter purportedly
written by the hidden Imám (twelfth Imám) was issued stating that no
further deputies would be appointed; from then on the Imám would
disappear completely from sight; no one could have any contact with
him. From this point on the “Major Occultation” started and no
specific date for the end of the situation was anticipated.
Shí‘ah ˆthná ‘Asharí
Those who believed in the minor and major occultations of the
hidden Imám were called Shí‘ah ˆthná ‘Asharíyyih (one of the most
obscure groups from amongst the fourteen branches formed
immediately after the death of Imám Óasan-i ‘Askarí (the eleventh
Imám) referred to earlier. The Imám's absence left a gap which was
gradually filled by the traditional authority of the ‘ulamá, (the
learned), the scholars of religious law, who increasingly extended and
consolidated their influence over the masses of believers. To
legitimize their authority, these clerics presented themselves as the
general representatives of the Hidden Imám on earth. The main
beneficiaries of this arrangement, who became later the core of Shí‘ah
ˆthná ‘Asharíyyih (Shí‘ah twelvers), were the learned who became the
de facto leaders or heirs to the Imám, both for spiritual guidance and
also to receive their share of wealth which was due to the Imám.
These monetary benefits were so lucrative that they dazzled the eyes
of the insincere in heart. The clerics promoted this questionable
arrangement, an arrangement that, strangely enough, was accepted by

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
some. The learned promoted the idea of “the coming of the 12th
Imám” who was also the promised Qá’im at an undisclosed time in
the future.
It should be noted that before the Safavid reign, the Shí‘ah ˆthná
‘Asharí was a minority branch in Iran. For political reasons, the
Safavid kings found it prudent and convenient to promote the Shí‘ah
ˆthná ‘Asharí sect as the state religion due to rivalry with the
Ottoman empire rule.6 Qajar kings, because of the inherent weakness
of their unjust rule, followed the same pattern. They needed the
support of the learned to rule the masses.7 As the years passed, the
questionable idea of occultation became not only part of the belief-
system of every believer in Shí‘ah ˆthná ‘Asharí, but rather the
unquestionable corner-stone of their belief. All Shí’ah came to expect
the appearance of the hidden Imám who was purportedly living at the
time of the end in a city called Jabulqa.8 This belief became so
entrenched in the thoughts and minds of the people that the slightest
deviation from it was considered blasphemous, punishable by either
imprisonment or death.
The Shaykhi School and the doctrine of Fourth Pillar
The period of occultation persisted for ten centuries. With the
approach of the Islamic millennium (1260 A.H.), a messianic fervor
was felt in every corner of Iran. The Shaykhí School which was
established by Shaykh A˙mad A˙sá’í started examining the
fundamentals of Islam. There are five fundamentals of Shí‘ah belief:
1. The unity of God (“towhid”)
2. Acceptance of Mu˙ammad as the Prophet of God
3. The return to God and the resurrection (Ma‘ád)
4. The justice of God
5. Belief in the Imáms as successors of Mu˙ammad
The Shaykhí School scrapped the two principles of the justice of God
and the resurrection (Ma‘ád), arguing that the first two tenets include
these points. However, they added one more principle to the
remaining three, an addition that reduced the principles of the
religion to four only:

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
1. The unity of God
2. Belief in the Prophet
3. Belief in the Imáms
4. The “Fourth Pillar”
This fourth pillar referred to the “Perfect Shí‘ah” who was
communicating with the Hidden Imám. Both Shaykh A˙mad A˙sá’í
and Siyyid Kázim were considered to be the “fourth pillar” of the
faith or the “Báb” to the Hidden Imám, although they never claimed
such a station. Furthermore, they did not teach that the Hidden Imám
was alive in a physical form. They coined the terminology of
“huriqalya” which was a pseudo-physical-form; somewhere between
physical and spiritual; sometimes it is called the Imaginal Realm. They
said that the Imám existed the form of “huriqalya.”
The Báb — the Nature of His Claim
In the year 1260 A.H. the Báb appeared among the Shí‘ah, who had
solidified this core, unshakable belief, unsupported by any divine
revelation, and lacking any rational or spiritual proof. The Twelvers
firmly believed that the promised Qá’im was living in an invisible
city. Some of the learned had even composed treatises describing
their descriptions of this city with its bizarre, if not surreal,
scenarios. The Báb's claim to prophethood had to break and expose
this great wall of vain-imaginings that had solidified the Shí‘ah belief
over the years. His approach was no different from the prophets
gone before Him. All past prophets revealed the essentials of their
religion gradually. The Prophet Mu˙ammad in the Qur’án revealed:
“They will not believe on him though the example of those of old
hath gone before” (Hedjar 15:13).
9 Also: “Such is God's method
carried into effect of old; no change canst thou find in God's mode
of dealing” (Fat˙-The Victory 48: 23). Following this method of
conveying His message to a people steeped in vain-imaginings, the
Báb at the inception of His revelation, conveyed two parallel
messages: One for those sincere believers who were not shackled with
superstitious notions and who followed the inspired promptings of
their heart. For these believers, the former message was stated subtly
from the beginning. The other message was intended for those

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
fundamentalists who relied on the distorted expectations derived
from past traditions. For example, the Báb in His “first and
mightiest” book, the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá (Commentary on the Surih of
Joseph) says for the benefit of the first group:
O YE kinsmen of the Most Great Remembrance! This Tree of
Holiness, dyed crimson with the oil of servitude, hath verily
sprung forth out of your own soil in the midst of the Burning
Bush, yet ye comprehend nothing whatever thereof, neither
of His true, heavenly attributes, nor of the actual
circumstances of His earthly life, nor of the evidences of His
powerful and unblemished behaviour. Actuated by your own
fancies, you consider Him to be alien to the sovereign Truth,
while in the estimation of God He is none other than the
Promised One Himself, invested with the power of the
sovereign Truth, and verily He is, as decreed in the Mother
Book, held answerable in the midst of the Burning Bush...
[SWB 52]
To the second group, He calls Himself “the Gate”:
GLORIFIED is He besides Whom there is none other God. In
His grasp He holdeth the source of authority, and verily God
is powerful over all things. We have decreed that every long
life shall in truth suffer decline and that every hardship shall
be followed by ease, that perchance men may recognize the
Gate of God as He Who is the eternal Truth, and verily God
shall stand as witness unto those that have believed. [SWB 47]
And
Verily I am the ‘Gate of God’ and I give you to drink, by the
leave of God, the sovereign Truth, of the crystal-pure waters
of His Revelation which are gushing out from the
incorruptible Fountain situate upon the Holy Mount. And
those who earnestly strive after the One True God, let them
then strive to attain this Gate. [SWB 50]
The first quote is directed towards the sincere in heart and the
second and the third quotes are directed towards the fundamentalists.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
It is obvious from the second and third quotes that He calls himself
the “Báb” or the “gate.” Outwardly whenever He spoke about His
station, He intended the “gate”. Most Shí‘ah assumed that He meant
by the “gate” the gate to the Hidden Imám, whereas what He
intended in reality was the gate to a “Personage” who was yet
unknown, as has been described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in A Traveller's
Narrative [TN 4]. In the entire Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih, in several passages
He has disavowed having knowledge of the realm of the Unseen, but
in reality, whatever He has written has been revealed by God. This is
similar to following statement in Qayyúmu’l-Asmá:
VERILY We made the revelation of verses to be a testimony
for Our message unto you. Can ye produce a single letter to
match these verses? Bring forth, then, your proofs, if ye be of
those who can discern the one true God. I solemnly affirm
before God, should all men and spirits combine to compose
the like of one chapter of this Book, they would surely fail,
even though they were to assist one another .... [SWB 43]
Opposition of the ‘Ulamá (The Learned)
The ‘Ulamá enjoyed unchallenged leadership for one thousand
years. They fulfilled collectively the role of the deputy of Imám
without directly claiming it. Now in light of the Báb’s claim that He
was the lawful representative of the Hidden Imám, the learned had to
surrender the position that they had arrogated to themselves. In so
doing, for the first time in their history, the Báb questioned their
legitimacy and placed their leadership under threat. This is the main
reason why the learned were among the first to oppose the Báb.
Bahá’u’lláh in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf says:
Reflect, O Shaykh, upon the Shí’ih sect. How many the
edifices which they reared with the hands of idle fancies and
vain imaginings, and how numerous the cities which they
built! At length those vain imaginings were converted into
bullets and aimed at Him Who is the Prince of the world.
[ESW 119]
Also:

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
O Hádí! The blind fanaticism of former times hath withheld
the hapless creatures from the Straight Path. Meditate on the
Shí’ih sect. For twelve hundred years they have cried “O
Qá’im!”, until in the end all pronounced the sentence of His
death, and caused Him to suffer martyrdom. [ESW 163]
In one of His tablets Bahá’u’lláh has revealed:
Since the people are perceived as being weak and veiled by
idle fancies, therefore the Sun of Reality hath appeared as an
atom and the everlasting ocean hath appeared as a drop. Thus
hath the Primal Point appeared assuming the name of
“gatehood.” Even so, the people were discontent with this
lower station, how much more were they discontent by the
claim of velayyat (Vice-regency, Guardianship), whereas all
these stations were created by Him.10 (Provisional Translation by
Foad Seddigh)
Bahá’u’lláh in one of His Tablets says:
It is known to thee that the commentary on the Surih of
Joseph hath been revealed according to the prevailing
understanding of the people of that time. This hath been for
reason of pure bounty, that haply the wayward and the
ignorant would become transported to the realm of
knowledge, because much of that which hath been stated
therein is the truth of the matter for the people of the
Qur’án. Had it been revealed according to that which God
hath desired, no one would have accepted and remained
faithful.
11 (Provisional Translation by Foad Seddigh)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His Tablets says:
Thou asked about the twelfth Imam. This supposition hath
never existed in the material world; it was only a notion
confined to the unseen world, lacking corporal existence.
Some Shi'ah leaders devised a scheme for the protection of
the weak amongst their followers to give Him a physical
identity …
12 (Provisional Translation by Foad Seddigh)

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
The Báb in His book The Seven Proofs says:
Consider the manifold favours vouchsafed by the Promised
One, and the effusions of His bounty which have pervaded
the concourse of the followers of Islam to enable them to
attain unto salvation. Indeed observe how He Who
representeth the origin of creation, He Who is the Exponent
of the verse, 'I, in very truth, am God', identified Himself as
the Gate [Bab] for the advent of the promised Qá'im, a
descendant of Mu˙ammad, and in His first Book enjoined the
observance of the laws of the Qur'án, so that the people
might not be seized with perturbation by reason of a new
Book and a new Revelation and might regard His Faith as
similar to their own, perchance they would not turn away
from the Truth and ignore the thing for which they had been
called into being… [SWB 119]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in A Traveller’s Narrative has written:
He began to speak and to declare the rank of Bábhood. Now
what He intended by the term Báb [Gate] was this, that He
was the channel of grace from some great Person still behind
the veil of glory, Who was the possessor of countless and
boundless perfections, by Whose will He moved, and to the
bond of Whose love He clung. And in the first book which
He wrote in explanation of the súrih of Joseph, He addressed
Himself in all passages to that Person unseen from Whom He
received help and grace, sought for aid in the arrangement of
His preliminaries, and craved the sacrifice of life in the way
of His love. [TN 4]
As one may gather from the above quotes, the main reasons that
the Báb started His ministry with a lesser claim was due to the lack of
spiritual capacity and understanding among the people. He needed,
consequently, time to prepare them for the acceptance of His
ultimate station and revelation. From the observation of such a lesser
claim, a claim that was rejected by the learned, and through their
instigation by the majority of the people, we can safely extrapolate
the dangerous outcome if He had disclosed His complete message and
station at the beginning. It is for the same reason that we notice in

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih, which was revealed in the early period of the
Báb’s ministry, these two types of statements, intended for the
sincere, on the one hand, and the superstitious on the other hand.
The Occultation Prayer
An inquirer asked the Báb to clarify the meaning of the prayer
from the 6th Imám regarding the Testimony of God, which is also
known as the prayer of occultation. In response to his request, the
Báb revealed the “Commentary on the Prayer of Occultation.” The
Prayer is very short and has three lines only:
O my God! Make known to me Thyself! Shouldst Thou enable
me not to recognize Thyself, I would not be able to recognize
Thy Prophet.
O my God! Make known to me Thine Apostle! Shouldst Thou
enable me not to recognize Thine Apostle, I would not be
able to recognize Thy Proof.
O my God! Make known to me thy Proof! Shouldst Thou
enable me not to recognize Thy Proof, I would stray from my
religion.
It should be noted that “testimony” or “proof” is generally a
reference to the revelation; but “Testimony” or “Proof” refers to the
Manifestation of God, or the promised Qá’im.
The Báb's approach in Answering the Question of
“Occultation”
The question of “occultation”, the story of whether the Hidden
Imám was alive or dead, was a complex question, that required
clarification because of its perplexing nature. However, the Báb does
not make any attempt to explain it in historical terms; rather, as we
will see later in the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih, He explains that the
“occultation” occurs when man departs from his everlasting
condition at the time of his creation by God. He says that God
created mankind in His own image. The Báb identifies occultation
with the existential station of forgetting the divine revelation within

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
the human soul, which requires prayer in order to regain true self-
consciousness and to return to his original spiritual condition and
thereby gain purity of heart, thereby discovering the truth.
Major themes in the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
Without pretence to being exhaustive, the following is a list of the
major themes presented in the epistle:
1. The meaning of the recognition of God
2. True belief in the unity of God (towhid)
3. Explanation of the Primal Will
4. The interpretation of “iláh”
5. The claims of the Báb
6. The testimony and proof of His mission
7. The inward meaning of the martyrdom of Imám Óusayn
8. That all things are in the hands of God: His decree, revelation
and the source of His knowledge
9. Why He changed his mind and did not go to Karbilá (badá)
10. Opposition of some of the believers
11. The interdiction for man of asking God about creation
12. The true nature of man
13. The meaning of occultation
14. The interpretation of the letter “Há”
15. The testimony of some of the learned about Him
A Brief Summary of Each Chapter
Since the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih is a commentary on the occultation
prayer, we might expect the Báb to devote the entire fourteen
chapters to the commentary. But even with a cursory glance at the
tablet, we observe that the commentary appears only in chapters 11,
12 and 13. Each of these chapters is devoted to the commentary of
one third or one line of the original prayer and a fourth line is added

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
by the Báb Himself to this prayer in chapter 14. However, the
material
presented
in
other
chapters
is
necessary
for
the
understanding of these four chapters. In other words, these four
chapters without the other ten chapters would be incomplete. We will
present in the following section the important themes treated in each
chapter. The Báb Himself has specified the beginning and end of each
chapter and also has given a title for each chapter.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 1
Title: The Discourse of Illumination and the Glorification
of God
o He states that even Himself cannot adequately praise God.
o He reveals several prayers and meditations.
o He states that everything is/was an act of God, whether
seekers travelling to find Him, their acceptance of His claim,
the humiliation He endured, opposition to Him, etc.
o He alludes to a verse of the Qur’án: “They plotted but God
plotted: and of plotters is God the best.” (Anfals, The Spoils 8:30)
o He admonishes the inquirer by stating: “ Beware, beware! lest
thou look upon any other thing except thy essence of being ….
Certainly, it is your duty to examine the promptings of your
inner heart and its command.” (Provisional Translation by Foad
Seddigh)
o He reminds the inquirer that the condition of occultation is
the station of falling into the abyss of particularistic essence
and forgetting one’s real existence which is the true reality or
spiritual reality of human beings.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 2
Title: Divine Admonition
o This chapter is an admonition to the inquirer who the Báb
encourages to heed His words and to rely upon God such that

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
he becomes liberated from doubts and temptation. The Báb
argues that the matter is confined to two alternatives: either it
is true or false. If he follows the Báb, he follows God; should
he reject His claims, he follows Satan. The inquirer is reminded
when the truth is disclosed to a fair-minded person, he should
not reject it, but when falsehood is mixed with truth, no one
would accept it.
o The Cause of God is like a light that illumines everything. Now
He possesses the Word of God and it sheds light like the sun.
o He is the possessor of God’s testimony and revelation; it is
incumbent on everyone to accept Him without further
questioning.
o The Báb says that He possesses the Testimony of God which is
the Truth. Should the seeker reject it, then he has no sure
handle/firm cord to grasp the truth. Consequently, if any
other “truth” is presented to him, he has no alternative but to
reject it.
o He refers to some Shaykhís who accepted Him and then
changed their mind. Now they worship Satan.
o He speaks kindly about Siyyid Ja‘far Kashfí (the father of
Siyyid Ya˙yá Dárábí, Vahíd). For Siyyid Ja‘far and for Shaykh
A˙mad A˙sá’í, He beseeches God’s mercy.
o He admonishes the seeker that he should have the right
attitude. He says: “Behold the One Who calleth thee unto God.
Should He possess an incontrovertible testimony from His
Lord in such manner that none is able to produce the like
thereof, His cause would then be proven to be true and there
would be no doubt about it. Obey then His words and ask not
why or wherefore . . . Shouldst thou acknowledge His
testimony thou wouldst have no place to flee to, save to obey
Him, even if He calleth night day, poison sugar, false true, and
knowledge ignorance”

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
A Brief Summary of Chapter 3
Title: An Introduction to the Transcendent Glory of God
o He forbids questions about creation because all doors to the
realm of Divinity are closed. Whoever asks such questions has
committed an unforgivable sin.
o Since all roads are barred to the direct recognition of God, the
seeker should strive to ascertain His good-pleasure.
o He refers to Himself as “the Point” (Nuq†ih). To the seeker He
says if you know the references to the Point and follow it, you
will attain unto all knowledge. (Actually He refers to the
Primal Will). He refers to the philosophers who called God the
First Cause/Uncaused Cause. He says it was the Primal Will
that created the world of existence; the Primal Will created
itself. He refers to this realm as that of the Manifestations of
God. He refers in a subtle way to His ultimate station.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 4
Title: Mentioning the prayer of Occultation.
o He identifies the reference for the occultation prayer and
attributes it to Imám Ja‘far Ṣádiq.
o He affirms that the knowledge of religion is for man to know
himself and to know that which God has endowed the being of
man.
o In the beginning, the creation of man was perfect. In the
beginning man was self-sufficient. He possessed all required
knowledge for this existence. Then he deviated from the
original condition of his creation.
o He reminds the seeker that all sins will be forgiven except
questions about the origin of creation.
o A true believer has such a high station that it would be
impossible to fully describe.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
o Once the believer accepts the interdiction not to inquire of
God concerning creation, then certain conditions are
incumbent upon anyone who supplicates God: to recognize the
oneness of God; to acknowledge His names and attributes; to
recognize for oneself and others His commands and
interdictions. Once the seeker possesses this knowledge, his
prayer will be answered.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 5
Theme: The Dawning of the Morn of Eternity
o It starts with the Qur’ánic verse: (Qasas, The Story 28:30) “And
when he came up to it, a Voice cried to him out of the bush
from the right side of the valley in the sacred hollow, “O
Moses, I truly am God, the Lord of the Worlds”, followed by
Ikhlas-The Unity 112:1-4: “SAY: He is God alone: God the
eternal! He begetteth not, and He is not begotten; And there is
none like unto Him.”
o What follows is a lengthy chapter concerning the true meaning
of the Towhid.
o Unacceptability of asking God a question concerning creation.
o The real meaning of the recognition of God.
o At the end of the chapter, he reiterates a discourse by Imám
Ri∂á on the unity of God in one of his debates.
o True recognition of the essence of God is impossible except by
God Himself.
o If anyone says that he manifests God, he has lied.
o The names and attributes of God apply to the realm of
creation.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
A Brief Summary of Chapter 6
Theme: Of the Mystery of Eternity
o This is also one of the longer chapters of the epistle. This
chapter starts by quoting the famous verse from the Qur’án
(Nur, Light 24: 35): “God is the LIGHT of the Heavens and of the
Earth. His Light is like a niche in which is a lamp — the lamp
encased in glass the glass, as it were, a glistening star. From a
blessed tree is it lighted, the olive neither of the East nor of
the West, whose oil would well-nigh shine out, even though
fire touched it not! It is light upon light. God guideth whom
He will to His light, and God setteth forth parables to men,
for God knoweth all things.” He explains the real meaning of
this verse and then continues with a dream of His own.
o He interprets the light referred to in the above verse to be the
Primal Will.
o Whoever claims that he has “known” the reality of the Prophet
Mu˙ammad runs the risk of claiming His station. In other
words, we cannot know or understand the true stations of the
Manifestations of God.
o Whoever calls upon God has a duty to know the Prophet
Mu˙ammad.
o He explains that on 12
Mu˙arram 1262. A.H. (February, 1845)
He had a dream. He dreamt there were many books around
Him. When He opened one of them, He saw dust from the
tomb of the Imám Óusayn inside a paper wrapping. On
opening it, He saw sacred writing in red ink at the end of
which was a star bearing the inscription: “I leave all my affairs
in Thy hand”. He tried to memorize the sacred verses, but
when He awoke He had forgotten everything except four
words, one of which was “Ma‘súd”. He interprets this word by
explicating the letters that compose the word.
o He mentions that at the time of writing of this chapter, it was
Mu˙arram, four days after the anniversary of the
martyrdom of Imám Óusayn, and He was grief stricken. He

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
then relates what Imám Óusayn uttered while standing by the
tomb of his grandfather, the Prophet Mu˙ammad, at the time
of His leaving Medina for Kúfih where martyrdom was
awaiting him.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 7
Theme: The Beautiful Names of God
o The subject is the recognition and interpretation of the
beautiful names of God.
o He mentions the verse from the Qur’án (Al Araf 7:180): “Most
excellent titles hath God: by these call ye on Him, and stand
aloof from those who pervert his titles. For what they have
done shall they be repaid!”
o Whatever thing has a name is a manifestation of one of God’s
names.
o God desired to be known by creating the divine names and
attributes.
o This ˙adith is quoted from the Imáms: “We are the beautiful
names of God; nothing will be accepted by God except through
our recognition.”
o One of the names of God is “huvá” (= He is God). It is the
great name of God. “Huvá” consists of two letters of “Há = ھ”
and “vav =و ”. The number associated with the letter “há” is
11. With a point in front of it, it becomes 110, the number of
the Báb's name ‘Alí. He claims that this beautiful name of God
refers to Him. He encourages the seeker to cling to this
beautiful name, that is, to cling unto Him.
o The Qur’án mentions: “He is the great announcement” whom
you have turned against. This refers to the Báb.
o He quotes a tradition stated by Ráhíb from Imám Ja‘far Ṣádiq
who said there were eight letters, four in the heaven and four
on the earth that the Qá’im will interpret. Ráhíb asked for two
of the four. Ṣádiq’s response was that he would let him know

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
all four. The first one is the divine unity (there is no God save
God); the second is the Prophet Mu˙ammad; the third refers to
the Imáms; the fourth refers to the Shí‘ah. The Báb says that
the Shí‘ah means the perfect man. (One of the titles of the Báb
was the “fourth support” or “forth rukn”). He says that one of
His titles is the intermediary between the hidden Imám and the
believers.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 8
Theme: The Great Signs of God
o He quotes the verse from the Qur’án (Sád 38: 67-70): “SAY: this
is a weighty message, From which ye turn aside! Yet had I no
knowledge of what passed among the celestial chiefs
(Concourse on High) when they disputed; Verily, it hath been
revealed to me only because I am a public preacher.”
o He
calls
Himself
the
“weighty
message,”
i.e.
Great
Announcement, mentioned in the above verse. He affirms that
He places all His trust on “the Remnant of God”. The
expression of “Remnant of God” appears in the Shí‘ah
traditions (˙adíth) not in the Qur’án. The Báb refers to it in
the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá.
o He addresses the seeker as “O he who has insight!” He draws
his attention to the Shí‘ah tradition that the Qá’im speaks the
words: “The Remnant of God is beneficial to you”. He says the
Remnant of God is guiding Him.
o He quotes a tradition from Imám ‘Alí who says: “The
enlightened recognition of me is the same as the recognition of
God”. In the visitation prayer of Imám ‘Alí this verse appears:
“Whatever is decided by the “Testimony of God” is the
unalterable decree.” He reminds the seeker that the allusions
made here are finer than a chalice filled with clear wine.
o He says there is a commonly accepted tradition that says
should a man die without recognizing the Imám of his time, he
has died the death of jáhiliyyih, i.e. a reference to the days of
ignorance of the idol worshippers in pre-Islamic Arabia.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
A Brief Summary of Chapter 9
Theme: The Great Bounties of God
o He quotes a verse from the Qur’án (Rahman 55: 13): “ Which
then of the bounties of your Lord will ye twain deny?”
o He interprets the verse that the greatest favours of God are the
kindred of Mu˙ammad and the Shí‘ah Imáms. He calls Himself
the last light from the kindred of the Imám. Then He describes
five stations for them. He expresses His wish to be living near
the tomb of Imám Óusayn.
o He enters into detailed and complex numerical tafsir (deriving
explanations from numerical assignments to words according
to Abjad letters) related to these stations.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 10
Theme: The Explanation of the Beginning and the End. i.e.
of this World and the Next
o This is the longest chapter in the epistle. It expounds the
beginning of man's life and its end. i.e. the status of man at his
creation and his return to God at the end of his earthly life. He
also explains the real inner meaning of the martyrdom of the
Imám Óusayn, as distinguished from his obvious physical
martyrdom. The writing of this chapter coincided with the
tenth day of Mu˙arram, the date of the martyrdom of the
Imám Óusayn. He discusses the divinity of the Imám Óusayn.
He quotes one reputable ˙adíth from ibn-i-‘Abbás, who stated
that when Imám Óusayn was leaving Mecca for Iraq, he saw
the archangel Gabriel holding Imám Óusayn's hand. Gabriel
said that whosoever has supported the Imám, it is as though he
has supported God. The Báb explains the inner/hidden
meaning of the martyrdom of Imám Óusayn, i.e. the people
would shed tears for Me in My afflictions (the Báb) at the
hands of My enemies. The martyrdom of the Imám Óusayn was
the fulfilment of the first blast on the trumpet. A Qur’ánic
verse says there will be two blasts of the trumpet.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
o He explains the mystery of the number of 72, i.e. the number
of companions of the Imám Óusayn at the time of his
martyrdom. The Báb relates these verses to His life.
o He explains the mystery of the tenth of Mu˙arram when the
Imám Óusayn was martyred in the year 61 A.H. He says that it
was on a Friday. He relates the events surrounding the
martyrdom to Himself. He refers to His condition at the hands
of His enemies which is more grievous than that of Imám
Óusayn. If the Imám Óusayn received 950 wounds from bows,
arrows and spears, the Báb maintains that His suffering is
greater.
o
He refers to the words of Javád Valíání the Khuvár as the
lowing of a calf. He says that he and people like him among
the learned who opposed the Báb could not reveal even a single
verse. He affirms that He could conquer the east and the west.
Then He states His desire for martyrdom. These verses
Bahá’u’lláh has quoted in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
Likewise, in His interpretation of the letter “Há,” He
craved martyrdom, saying: “Methinks I heard a Voice
calling in my inmost being: ‘Do thou sacrifice the thing
which Thou lovest most in the path of God, even as
Óusayn, peace be upon him, hath offered up his life for
My sake.’ And were I not regardful of this inevitable
mystery, by Him, Who hath my being between His hands
even if all the kings of the earth were to be leagued
together they would be powerless to take from me a single
letter, how much less can these servants who are worthy of
no attention, and who verily are of the outcast... That all
may know the degree of My patience, My resignation, and
self-sacrifice in the path of God.” (KI 231-232)
o He makes no claim except servitude. He says He has revealed
10 books and 4 epistles. In order to stress the potency of His
writings and lack of capacity of the majority of people to
appreciate His spiritual authority, He states that any ordinary
man who could have one of His 14 books and epistle in his
hands would have conquered the world.

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
o He mentions that if a member of the learned (‘ulamá) writes a
simple epistle on some minor aspect of Islam, thousands of
people will follow him. The faithful believe that the
repudiation of such an epistle would be tantamount to
repudiation of God. Although His Cause is like the sun at its
zenith, the people do not pay any attention to Him and arise
to oppose Him vehemently. The Báb laments the spiritual
blindness of such people.
o He ends this chapter with 61 lines of a poem modelled on the
battle cry of the Imám Óusayn.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 11
Theme: Commentary on the First One-Third of the Prayer
(First Line of the Prayer)
o God's knowledge encompasses all things. Its outward, plain
sense meaning is the same as its inner meaning and vice versa.
Only God Himself knows the true meanings of the divine
verses.
o He begins with the interpretation of the first word of the first
line of the prayer and expounds the letters of the alphabet that
form the word. It starts with “alláhuma =اﻟﻠﮭﻢ
”, “O my God!”
He interprets the letters of the alphabet “alif”, “lám”, “há”,
“mim”, etc. which form the first word. For an example, in the
interpretation of “alif,” He gives different elucidations to the
letter alif, the standing alif that refers to the Manifestation of
God (This letter of alphabet looks like a vertical line — thus
“standing alif”).
o He addresses the seeker stating that to recognize God two
processes are involved: one through your own manifest being.
This cannot be accomplished by posing questions. The second
process is to recognize God through your essence of being
(máhíyyat). This can be done only through lowliness and by
accepting one's weakness and God’s decree. He further
explains that the recognition of God through the first process
involves man’s eternal station; the second process involves the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
station of servitude. From this explanation one may gather
that He says that to know God, one has to show meekness and
then follow the Manifestation of God who reflects the Primal
Will without questioning His words or deeds.
o He states that true recognition of God will not be complete
without the recognition of the Manifestation of God; the
recognition of the Manifestation of God is not complete
without the recognition of His vice-regent; the recognition of
His vice-regent is not complete except by recognizing “the
peerless Shí‘ah”. By “the peerless Shí‘ah,” He means the Báb.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 12
Theme: Interpretation of the Second Third (Second Line of
the Prayer)
o This chapter starts with a prayer referring to the unity of God.
o This chapter interprets mainly the recognition and station of
Mu˙ammad, the Manifestation of God.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 13
Theme: Interpretation of the Third One-Third (Third line
of the Prayer)
o The main theme of this chapter is the “testimony/proof” which
He establishes as the revelation of the divine verses.
o He mentions a letter which He received from someone named
Mu˙ammad Ja‘far, which originally He did not intend to
answer because this individual was attempting to debate Him
and to test His authority and knowledge. He answers that it
would not be possible for Him to make such a claim if He did
not have the required testimony. The only other person who
would make such a claim would be a person who is devoid of
intelligence. He says He has revealed voluminous works
without resorting to cognition because it came immediately
through divine revelation. He says that He has not attended

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
schools, but that He possesses the key to the door of all
knowledge.
o He makes the interesting statement that He is one of the
students of Siyyid Kázim. In this epistle and elsewhere, He has
mentioned that He has not acquired the knowledge that is
current amongst the learned. This statement should not be
taken as an affirmation that he acquired knowledge from
Siyyid Kázim, but rather it confirms his former teacher’s great
station by paying him homage. We know that He stayed for
seven months only in Karbilá; he did not attend the Siyyid’s
classes on any regular basis in that city.
o He exhorts the seeker to give His greetings to His followers.
He states that He knows no word issuing from the realm of the
Unseen, but whatever He needs to know is given to Him by
God.
o To anyone who would debate the Báb, He advises that He
would not answer any question unless it met certain criteria.
The seeker should fall among three classes of people (For the
sake of brevity, no further explanation about three classes
could be given here). He then provides twelve admonishments
from Imám ‘Alí who has taken them from Torah. He explains
each one in turn.
A Brief Summary of Chapter 14
Theme: Avoiding Unbelievers and Those who show Enmity
to the New Cause
o He adds a fourth line to the occultation prayer which reads: “O
my God! Make known to me the Gate to Thy Testimony!
Shouldst Thou not enable me to recognize Thy Gate, I would
go astray.” The Báb has argued that the greatest testimony is
the revelation of divine verses. According to the Shí‘ah, the
Testimony is the Twelfth Imám.
o Whoever doubts the command “Avoid the enemies of the
Cause,” will bring misery on himself and become the enemy of
God.

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
o Almost half of the chapter is devoted to quoting the
testimonials from four people who have supported the truth
of His Cause. These four people are Shaykh A˙mad-i A˙sá’í,
Siyyid Kázim Rashti, ‘Abdu’l-Kháliq, and Mu˙ammad ‘Alí
Qazvíní.
Conclusion
In this paper Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih was introduced and its essential
characteristics was given. Furthermore, for its better understanding,
relevant background information was introduced and analyzed. A
brief content of each of its fourteen chapters was presented.
Acknowledgement
The author gratefully acknowledges the assistance of Dr. Omid
Ghaemmaghami and Mr. Jack McLean in preparation of this paper.



NOTES
1 Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, (n.p., Wilfrid Laurier University Press,
2008), pp. 37-41.
2 This study is based on a particular manuscript of the Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
created from three different hand written unpublished manuscripts which
the author of this paper could find; they are as follows:
1. Manuscript in the Iranian National Baha'i Archives (INBA #60) pp.
57-154
2. Manuscript in the Iranian National Baha'i Archives (INBA #98) pp.
48-111
3. Manuscript in the Babi collection of Princeton University
Manuscript #228; pp. 1-60
It seems it is adequate for the sake of this study. There are nearly three
hundred textual variations and differences in these three manuscripts;
these errors which cause the variations in the three manuscripts have
arisen from the carelessness of those who transcribed them and were not
intentional. This study is a first step towards further studies and research

Analysis of the of Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih


to be done in the future in order to prepare an authentic manuscript for
the epistle.
3 Nabíl-i A‘ẓam, Mullá Mu˙ammad Zarandí, The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl's
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation, translated and
edited by Shoghi Effendi. (New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee,
1932), p. 669.
4 A.L.M. Nicolas, Siyyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad dit le Báb. (Paris: Librairie
Critique, 1908), pp. 17–25.
5 These individuals were known as 'Gates' (Abwáb). The first was (‘Uthmán-
ibn-Sa‘íd Umarí (260-265 A.H.); the second Muhammad-ibn-i-‘Uthmán,
son of the above (265-305 A.H.); the third was Óusayn -ibn-i-Rú˙ Náw-
bakhtí (305-326 A.H.); the fourth was ‘Alí-ibn-i- Mu˙ammad Simarí (326-
329 A.H.). Of these 'gates', the first was appointed by the Imám Óasan-i
‘Askarí. The others were appointed by the then acting 'gate' with the
sanction and approval of the Hidden Imám. This period extended over 69
years during which the Imám was still accessible by means of the 'gates.'
This period is known as the 'Lesser' or 'Minor Occultation' (Ghaybat-i-
Sughra). This was succeeded by the 'Greater' or 'Major Occultation'
(Ghaybat-i-Kubra).
6 Abbas Amanat, Iran: A Modern History. (New Haven: Yale University
Press, 2017), pp. 62-69.
7 Ibid pp. 199-210
8 Jabulqa and Jabulsa are two mythological cities mentioned in the Shí‘ah
˙adíth. These cities were inhabited by archetypal believers who are waiting
for the appearance of the promised Qá’im for the Shí‘ah. According to
some ˙adíth the Qá’im will inhabit these cities. Each city has 12,000 gates,
each of which is guarded by 12,000 men until the Day of Resurrection
when the Qa'im will appear.
9 All the quotes from Qur’án in this paper are according to its translation by
J.M. Rev. Rodwell.
10 La’álí Óikmat, vol. II. (Bahá’í Publishing of Brazil, 1990), p. 60.
11 Ayát-i Iláhí, vol. II, A Compilation of Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.
(Langenheim: Bahá’í Publishing Trust of Germany, 1990), p. 68.
12 Assadulláh-Fadil Mázandarání, Amr Va Khalq, vol. II, Mu’assisih Matbuát
Amri. (Langenheim and Tehran, Reprint by Bahá’í Publishing Trust of
Germany, 141 B.E.), p. 221.
13 Todd Lawson and Omid Ghaemmaghami, eds; A Most Noble Pattern:
Collected Essays on the Writings of the Báb. (Oxford: Bahá’í Studies
Series, George Ronald, 2012), paper by Nader Saiedi, p 212.

A Commentary on the Occultation
Prayer, or Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
The Báb
Provisional translation by Foad Seddigh
Chapter One: The Discourse of Illumination
In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful! Praise be
unto God Who hath testified to His Essence with His Essence that
there is no God except Him Who hath been exalted through His
Supreme Self over all things, Who is hidden by His transcendent
revelation from all things, Who hath been without remembrance of
anything from time immemorial, and Who is now the same as He hath
been in the past, that there hath not been with Him the remembrance
of anything. He Who is Worshipped, as the Incomparable, the Self-
Subsisting, He Who made knowledge an attribute for His servants
and power and might a station for His chosen Ones. He is the First
without the recognition of anything and the Last without the
remembrance of anything. He is manifest without the creation of
anything and the innermost reality of things without the injunction
of anything. Should I say that verily He is Who He is, the
Excogitation and that which pertaineth to it would discredit Me;
because He is not recognized by anyone except Himself and cannot
be described by His creation. Should I say that Thou art Who Thou
art, the Contrivance, and that which is facing it is disputing Me;
because, He is not described through acclamation, nor may be

Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
pointed to because of not being seen. He is sanctified! Verily His
Essence leads to His Essence, His pre-existence is established by His
momentary existence. He hath been barred from His creation and His
Being hath been concealed in veils before His servants. Should any
man say: “He is Who He is”, the letter “há” leadeth to the creation
and the letter “váv” to the decree; this is the proof for His being
substantially cut off from others and greatly being debarred. Should
he say: “He is Who He is” and I know not His Station, he hath joined
partner with his Lord after knowing that he is severed from Him.
Which unbelief is greater than the Word “He is”? Which trespass may
outweigh that of the non-existent approaching the Absolute
Existence? He is sanctified far beyond how I may describe Him
without thanking Him, and beyond knowing Him without praising
Him; though after denial, My words prove to be the condition of
description. I swear by His Might! It is not the case; there is no path
drawn between Him and anything else. I mean by denial nothing else
but denial, and in remembering Him nothing else except helplessness.
Sanctified is He! How great is My boldness before His Beauty and
how great is My transgression in face of His majesty. In My
contemplation, definitely, I hold Him sanctified from the description
of all else except Him. This is My description of His majesty. With
the knowledge of being debarred from Him, I hold Him Holy beyond
the commendation of all else except Him and this is my praise for His
Beauty. He is sanctified from this path. Should I say: “well is it with
Me”, I have joined partner with Him and should I say: “woe betide
Me”, I have become unfaithful. I know not how to express My
hopelessness and which words to use to admit My transgression.
Sanctified is God, the Incomparable, the Single! Should I immerse
Myself in the ocean of His praise, notwithstanding being accounted
amongst the infidels in His sight, it would fill My heart with such
love that I would be silent and drowned in the ocean of remoteness.
No by His exalted Being! Should My heart be consumed in My
extreme disloyalty, by His Might! Certainly, it would not take away
My pleasure for praising His greatness. However, I would be content
with the burning of My heart as a result of my boldness. No by His
greatness! Verily, I know that there is no path for Me to tread
towards Him, not by helplessness, not by praise, not by prohibition,
not by glory, not by severance, not by extreme light, not by the letter
“há” and not by fleeing away from letter “váv”. Sanctified is God!

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
That which He hath created in Me is wonderful and that which He
hath inspired within Me is exalted. Once He enraptureth Me towards
the horizon of the Hidden Realm and another time He annihilateth
Me with the fire of non-consciousness. I know not that which Thou
seekest from Me; is it My blood that Thou wishest to be spilled or is
it Me Who desireth to draw Himself nigh unto Thee, then Thou
drivest Me away and then by running away from Thy Might Thou
punishest Me? I know not on which path Thou standest so that I can
call Thee, and I know not which words to use to ask Thy favor and
complain to Thee. No by Thy Might! I flee not from nearness to
Thee, shouldst Thou drive Me away. No by Thy Being! I fear not Thy
overpowering Might even if Thou wouldst burn Me up. No by Thy
power! I have no request from anyone else except Thee even shouldst
Thou make me needy towards it. Sanctified is God in His command.
Whatever I experience, I will endure it within Me and there is
nothing more exalted in My heart than His sovereignty. Should I flee
away like a child of tender age, likewise, He would place sugar in My
mouth to calm My tears, then He would place the breast of His
mercy in my mouth to make me go to sleep. No by Thy might! I am
not unaware of that which Thou wouldst do, and I do not busy
Myself with such conditions away from Thee. I know not which
object Thou dost want for Me; would it be that Thou wantest to take
away My life or would it be to make My inner being happy?
I was residing in My house alone and no one had any knowledge of
Me. Thou induced some people to leave their abode and Thou hast
brought them to arrive at My place; then Thou revealed unto Me the
decree of Thy call and bestowed upon Me Thy Proof. No sooner had
Thy knowledge reached Me than Thou didst take Thy Covenant from
the hearts of all those who had become aware of Thy command and
made them submit to Thee to such an extent that none of them who
had travelled denied My claim. Thou didst then take them back to
their places of residence and Thou dispensed to Me after that the
honor of travelling towards Thy Respectful House and Thou
extended Thy command to the hands of Thy kings on earth in every
direction until My Cause reached the east and the west and in
between them. As soon as the faith of Thy servants grew stronger and
everyone knew the decree of the heart, Thou made Me return from
Thy Respectful House; consonant with this condition, Thou desired
that mischief arise in the cities and by the inhabitants of such cities

Risáliy-i-Ja‘faríyyih
until the opposition of them who turned against the Cause descended
upon Me and the chosen ones. Then, Thou brought Me in the utmost
humiliation in the presence of tyrants, then Thou inspired Me with
the word of negation after affirmation in order to make Me secure
from life-threatening positions. Are these not all of Thy making, O
Thou the Possessor of Majesty and Favor? Verily, O my God! Thou
transported Me to the supernal realm from the beginning of the
Cause and Thou placed Me in different situations; then Thou placed
the word of denial in the hearts of Satanic people until the enemies
grabbed whatever they had written. Verily, I did not intend in what I
wrote except the specific station of appointed gate-hood yet gate-
hood is in reality an absolute word that falleth into limitation by such
specification. By Thy Might! They did not scheme against My decree
but I was swift in scheming in their affairs. If I had affirmed them
like the earlier believers, they would not have treated Me with
enmity. However, any affliction I suffer, I see it but as coming from
Thee; because Thou hast power over its transmutation or turning it
around in the best possible way. The reason that I have endured
humiliation is because Thou hast been patient with Me despite having
knowledge and being in the position of power. However, Thou
knowest O My God that I do not like to act contrary to Thy Will and
am aware of Thy patience with respect to those who art nigh unto
Thee but I have no power over Thy ways for dealing with them and
verily, I am not ashamed before Thee as Thou art potent to decree
for Me to pursue an action and then change it without being in a
position of contradiction. In such case, I will bring My action to an
end even if My words might be similar to those of wrongdoers. And
knowing My inner being which is intoxicated by Thy bestowals and
by the wine of being thankful to Thee, I call Thee with these verses
which do not trespass the limit of praise; however, they are not
beyond the decree of a change of plan. Sanctified art Thou! I praise
Thee in misery and distress; a praise which is shedding light, is bright,
and is sanctified with the sanctity of Thy realm of eternity and Thy
divine unity. I seek assistance from Thee with what Thou purposed in
this book with Thy strength and power. Thou art the Generous, the
All-Praised.
I bear witness to Thee with that which Thou lovest and art made
happy before manifesting what is in the world of existence. Thou art
the All-Informed, the Witness and Thou art sufficient unto Me as a

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
witness. I bear witness that there is no other God except Him alone,
there is no partner with Him, and verily Muhammad, the salutation
of God be upon Him and His kindred, is Thy servant; no one is like
Him and He is Thy Messenger Who is exalted above being similar to
anyone. He conveyed to the people that which Thou manifested
within Him from Thy knowledge, and provided admonishment to the
people from that which Thou inspired Him in the path of Thy love. O
My God! Reward Him and His kindred as They deserve. I bear witness
to the Regents of Muhammad, Thy Beloved, as Thou hast purposed
for them and provided help for them in every condition through Thy
bounty from Thy Own self and Thou art numbering them as letters of
Thy divine unity. Verily, Thou art the All-Mighty, the All-Wise. I
bear witness for their followers that which Thy knowledge
surrounded them in the arc of descent and Thy mystery in the arc of
ascent, for every truth with rightfulness and for every untruth with
denial, and Thou art sufficient unto Me and art witness and aware
unto Me. O thou who examinest this book! Beware, beware! lest thou
look upon any other thing except thy essence of being when the birds
invoked with melodious tunes, the peoples with the visible objects,
the minds with the world of existence, and the hearts with the clear
testimonies; certainly it is your duty to examine the promptings of
your inner heart and its command. We are from God and towards
Our Lord We shall turn and those who act should conduct themselves
like this.

THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT OF THE SECRETARIAT
27 April 2017
[To an individual]
Dear Bahá’í Friend,
The Universal House of Justice has received your email letter of 31 January 2017 in which
you seek guidance on the latitude Bahá’ís have to engage in social action and public discourse,
particularly in relation to the principle of non-involvement in political affairs. We have been asked
to convey the following.
Your heartfelt desire to apply the principles of the Faith to address the ills of society is
warmly acknowledged. The House of Justice agrees with many of your thoughtful points and
wishes to provide some additional ideas for your consideration.
As you are no doubt well aware, in discussing the principle of non-involvement in politics,
Shoghi Effendi wrote that Bahá’ís are to “refrain from associating themselves, whether by word or
by deed, with the political pursuits of their respective nations, with the policies of their
governments and the schemes and programs of parties and factions.” In political controversies,
they “should assign no blame, take no side, further no design, and identify themselves with no
system prejudicial to the best interests” of their “world-wide Fellowship”. They are called to
“avoid the entanglements and bickerings inseparable from the pursuits of the politician”. And they
are to “rise above all particularism and partisanship, above the vain disputes, the petty
calculations, the transient passions that agitate the face, and engage the attention, of a changing
world.” Bahá’ís and Bahá’í institutions should not take positions on the political decisions of
governments, including disputes among governments of different nations; should refrain from
becoming involved in debates surrounding any political controversy; and should not react, orally or
otherwise, in a manner that could be taken as evidence of support for a partisan political stance. It
is not for a Bahá’í, in offering social commentary, to vilify speciﬁc individuals, organizations, or
governments or to make attacks on them. Indeed, the Guardian speciﬁcally cautioned the friends
against referring to political ﬁgures in their public remarks, whether in criticism or support.
Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá enjoined Bahá’ís to be obedient to the government
of their land. Unity, order, and cooperation are the basis for sound and lasting change. Even civil
disobedience, in the form of a conscious decision to violate the law to effect social change, is not
acceptable for Bahá’ís—whatever merit it appears to have had in particular political settings.
Ultimately, obedience to government has a bearing on the unity of the Bahá’í community itself. In
a letter written on his behalf, Shoghi Effendi stated that individual Bahá’ís should not become
immersed in the “faulty systems of the world” or judge their government as “just or unjust—for
each believer would be sure to hold a different viewpoint, and within our own Bahá’í fold a hotbed
of dissension would spring up and destroy our unity.” These considerations, however, do not imply
an endorsement of the actions or policies of one’s government. As Shoghi Effendi explained in
another letter written on his behalf: “The principle of obedience to government does not place any
Bahá’í under the obligation of identifying the teachings of his Faith with the political program
enforced by the government. For such an identiﬁcation, besides being erroneous and contrary to
both the spirit as well as the form of the Bahá’í message, would necessarily create a conﬂict
within the conscience of every loyal believer.”
The principles of non-involvement in politics and obedience to government, far from being
obstacles to social change, are aspects of an approach set forth in the Bahá’í writings to
implement effective remedies for and address the root causes of the ills afﬂicting society. This
approach includes active involvement in the life of society as well as the possibility of inﬂuencing

and contributing to the social policies of government by all lawful means. Indeed, service to others
and to society is a hallmark of the Bahá’í life. And Shoghi Effendi has explained that “the
machinery of the Cause has been so fashioned, that whatever is deemed necessary to incorporate
into it in order to keep it in the forefront of all progressive movements, can, according to the
provisions made by Bahá’u’lláh, be safely embodied therein.” The way in which Bahá’ís seek to
effect social change is described in the 2 March 2013 message of the House of Justice to the
Bahá’ís of Iran. A copy of that message is enclosed for your study.
There can be no question then that Bahá’ís are committed to efforts toward social
transformation. “Much as the friends must guard against in any way ever seeming to identify
themselves or the Cause with any political party,” Shoghi Effendi, through his secretary, cautioned,
“they must also guard against the other extreme of never taking part, with other progressive
groups, in conferences or committees designed to promote some activity in entire accord with our
teachings—such as, for instance, better race relations.” This involvement in activities for social
reform and well-being can in certain circumstances even extend to taking part in demonstrations.
A letter written on the Guardian’s behalf indicated that he did not see any objection to Bahá’í
students taking part as Bahá’ís in a protest concerning racial prejudice on campus, since “there
was nothing political about it” and “he does not see how they could remain indifferent when
fellow-students were voicing our own Bahá’í attitude on such a vital issue and one we feel so
strongly about.” Thus, individual Bahá’ís are free to participate in those efforts and activities, such
as peaceful rallies, that uphold constructive aims in consonance with the Bahá’í teachings, for
example, the advancement of women, the promotion of social justice, the protection of the
environment, the elimination of all forms of discrimination, and the safeguarding of human rights.
In deciding whether it would be appropriate for Bahá’ís to participate in particular public
activities, a crucial distinction should be drawn between those events that have a partisan political
character and those that do not. A further distinction can be drawn between those activities that
are fully in keeping with the teachings and that can be supported explicitly by Bahá’í institutions
and those where the situation is less clear, in which Bahá’í institutions should not participate but
in which individuals can be given some latitude to make a personal decision to take part, without
in any way implying that they are representing the Faith directly by their choice. If a believer
harbors any doubt as to the appropriateness of involvement with a particular event or approach,
guidance should be sought from the National Spiritual Assembly, which is in the best position to
evaluate the speciﬁc circumstances and is responsible for making the ﬁnal determination on such
questions.
Beyond this clariﬁcation of basic principles, there are other important considerations. Too
often political goals, even when pursued in the name of justice, are a chimera, for the
fundamental partisanship in contemporary political life means policies are often implemented
without building consensus and consequently seeds of discontent and continuing political struggle
are sown. Conﬂict and contention ultimately yield more conﬂict and contention. Eliminating social
problems, rather than merely ameliorating them to an extent, requires unity of thought as well as
action, an open heart as well as an open hand—conditions which Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is
intended to bring about.
For many decades following the second great war of the twentieth century, humanity moved,
with ﬁts and starts, toward the promise of a united world. The failure to complete the project of
the uniﬁcation of nations, however, left gaps in relations in which supranational problems could
fester and threaten the security and well-being of peoples and states, leading to a recrudescence of
prejudice, of divers expressions of factionalism, and of virulent nationalism that are the very
negation of Bahá’u’lláh’s message of peace and oneness.
One of the current features of the process of the disintegration of the old world order manifest
in the United States is the increasing polarization and fragmentation that has come to characterize
so much of political and social life. There has been a hardening of viewpoints, increased incivility,
an unwillingness to compromise or even entertain differing perspectives, and a tendency to

automatically take sides and ﬁght. Science and religion, two great lights that should guide human
progress, are often compromised or swept aside. Matters of moral principle and questions of
justice are reduced to intractable liberal or conservative viewpoints, and the country is increasingly
divided along divergent lines. In this context, the friends have to hold steadfastly to the Bahá’í
teachings and consultative methods and not allow their pursuit of noble aims and high aspirations
to draw them into one side or the other of fruitless debates and contentious processes.
In their reﬂections on how to contribute to the betterment of the world, Bahá’ís will
undoubtedly recognize that demonstrations are not the only, or even the most effective, means
available to them. Rather, they can learn and grow in capacity over time to help their fellow
citizens to frame concerns in a way that rises above ﬁssures, to share views in a manner that
transcends divisive approaches, and to create and participate in spaces to work together in the
quest to enact solutions to the problems that bedevil their nation. As Bahá’u’lláh stated: “Say: no
man can attain his true station except through his justice. No power can exist except through
unity. No welfare and no well-being can be attained except through consultation.” In this light,
justice is indeed essential to resist the vain imaginings and idle fancies of social and political
machinations, to see reality with one’s own eyes, and to identify the requirements for an
equitable social order. But then unity is essential—forged through consultative processes, including
action and reﬂection—to achieve the power required for positive social change.
Unfortunately, sometimes when approaching such important and deeply felt matters, the
friends can create dichotomies where none exist. Thus, for example, it is contended that one must
choose between either non-involvement in politics or social action; either teaching the Faith or
involvement with society; either the institute process and the community-building activities it
fosters or a program for race unity; and so on. Such apparent conﬂicts can be greatly dissipated by
keeping in mind Shoghi Effendi’s advice, conveyed in a letter written on his behalf, to conceive of
the teachings as one great whole with many facets. “Truth may, in covering different subjects,
appear to be contradictory,” the same letter indicated, “and yet it is all one if you carry the thought
through to the end.” A careful reading of the Bahá’í writings and the guidance of the House of
Justice can clarify how two matters that appear to be in tension with one another are coherent
once the concepts and principles that connect them are understood. Particular circumstances in a
locality, timeliness, and the periodic need for focus also have a bearing on such issues.
In a recent letter written on its behalf, the House of Justice explained to your National
Assembly that the scope of the Five Year Plan offers ample opportunities for believers to address
the social concerns of their communities and society as a whole. The Plan’s activities for sustained
growth and community building lie at the heart of a broad scheme for social transformation. The
friends are called to three simultaneous, overlapping, and coherent areas of action: community-
building efforts in clusters; projects and activities for social action; and involvement in the
discourses of society, whether in neighborhoods or in personal or professional associations. An
assessment of the efforts of Bahá’ís across the United States will reveal that there is already an
army of believers working in all strata of society to promote the Bahá’í teachings and combat the
spiritual and social ills afﬂicting their country. As the learning process that has proven to be so
effective in the expansion and consolidation work worldwide is increasingly employed in all
endeavors, the capacity of individuals, communities, and institutions to apply Bahá’u’lláh’s
healing remedy to achieve profound and lasting change will become ever more pronounced,
assisting the nation along the path of its destiny.
Rest assured of the supplications of the House of Justice in the Holy Shrines that the
conﬁrmations of Bahá’u’lláh may bless your efforts to be a promoter of unity and justice.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat

This document has been downloaded from the Bahá’í Reference Library. You are free to use its content subject to the terms of use found at www.bahai.org/legal

In Memoriam
Dr. Mehrangiz Afnan
(1937-2018)


Dr. Mehrangiz (Mehri) Afnan was an active and much-appreciated
presenter at the annual programs of the Irfan Colloquium taking
place at Louhelen Bahá’í School in Michigan, United States. She also
served as a reviewer of the articles published in Safiniy-i-Irfan, the
annual publication of the Irfan Colloquium in Persian. A number of

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
articles written and presented by Dr. Mehri Afnan are published in
different volumes of Safiniy-i-Irfan.
She was born in Tehran, Iran, on 30 October 1937. Her parents
had both grown up in Russia — her father, Abolghasem Kiani, in
Ishqabad and her mother, Monavar Namdar, in Moscow — before
being forced to move to Iran in the early 1930s.
Dr. Mehri Afnan received her medical doctorate from the
University of Tehran and was among a handful of young women who
studied medicine at that time. She then went on to specialize in
pediatrics. She had a tender heart and a great sense of personal
responsibility and was a skilled and conscientious doctor, trusted and
loved by her patients. She met Dr. Muhammad Afnan through Bahá’í
youth activities, and they married in 1961. They had two children,
Elham and Omid.
In 1978, the family moved to Norway to settle there as Bahá’í
pioneers. Shortly after the outbreak of the Islamic Revolution in
January 1979, they were denied a residence permit in Norway, but also
were advised not to return to Iran because of their earlier prominence
in Bahá’í administration. They moved to Canada, settling in the town
of Dundas, where they helped form the Local Spiritual Assembly and
became active and much loved members of the community.
Dr. Mehri Afnan studied the Bahá’í Writings deeply and
extensively. In addition to her native Persian, she also had a good
knowledge of Arabic and English and was an excellent writer and
speaker, writing articles on a variety of Bahá’í topics. She and her
husband complemented each other and collaborated in many areas. In
1987, this couple started the Institute for Bahá’í Studies in Persian in
Dundas, Canada, to continue the services rendered by the Institute of
Advanced Baha’i Studies in Iran. It aimed at promoting and
supporting the study of Bahá’í literature in Persian and Arabic and
became a major publisher of Bahá’í literature in Persian, replacing the
services originally rendered by the Bahá’í Publishing Trust in Iran.
In 1989, this couple were invited to move to the Bahá’í World
Centre in Haifa, where they both served in the Research Department
for the next thirteen years, until 2002. They had the opportunity to
visit the World Center again several times in recent years and worked
on various projects each time, including during the last visit that Dr.

In Memoriam: Mehri Afnan
Mehri Afnan made alone, in November 2017, a few months after her
husband’s passing.
This couple upon returning to Canada, settled in Mississauga and
once again became enthusiastically involved in Bahá’í activities. They
held regular devotionals and study classes in their home, took part in
outreach activities, and used every opportunity to teach the Faith.
Dr. Afnan also served as members of the Persian Reviewing Panel for
many years.
Dr. Mehri Afnan was a loving and devoted wife, mother, and
grandmother. She was an excellent speaker, writer, and teacher, as
well as a gracious host. Above all, at the center of her life was service
to the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. She passed away on 13 August 2018 in
Mississauga, Ontario. The Universal House of Justice expressed its
appreciation of her life and services in a letter written to her family
on its behalf. Irfan Colloquium and its Persian publications are now
deprived of the precious collaboration of a learned and dear
colleague.

Sohrab Arjmand
(1935-2019)



Mr. Sohrab Arjmand was a member of the Board of Haj Mehdi
Arjmand Memorial Fund at National Baha’i Center and a faithful
supporter of Irfan Colloquium. He was a grandson of Haj Mehdi
Arjmand and was born in the city of Tehran, Iran on November 1,
1935. At the age of 18, he left Iran to pursue higher education in the
United States and was graduated from Hayward University in

In Memoriam: Sohrab Arjmand
Business Administration. In 1966, he went back to Iran because his
mother was very sick. Although he lost his mother shortly thereafter,
he met his soon to be his wife, Mehrshid Yadegari. The two were
married in 1969.
In 1975, before the Iranian Revolution, they left Iran and came to
San Diego. Perhaps having lived in California before, helped him to
quickly make new friends and settle down in San Diego. He had quite
a sense of humor. He was a very dedicated Baha’i and was elected to
the Local Spiritual Assembly in San Diego and served on that position
for 20 years. Sohrab Arjmand was very generous and joined his brother
and sisters in supporting Irfan Colloquium projects by regularly
making contributions to Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund.
He was a very responsible and goal-oriented person and finished
every project to its very end. He was a very independent, healthy and
active person. Unfortunately, he tripped and fell which resulted in a
fatal head injury and passed away in San Diego on January 22, 2019.
He is survived by his wife, Parichehr, 2 daughters, Tandis and Anisa
and a granddaughter, Leily. He will be greatly missed by the
participants in the annual gatherings of Irfan Colloquium taking
place at Bosch Baha’i School in Northern California.

Lily Ayman (Áhy)
(1929-2018)

Lily Ayman was a co-founder and staunch supporter of the Irfan
Colloquium project, participating at all its sessions and warmly
associating with participants. She was a distinguished educator,
author, translator, and world citizen whose life and activities took
her to many corners of the world. Lily was born on May 17, 1929 in
Tehran. She was the fourth-generation great granddaughter of Mírzá
Majíd Áhy, a brother-in-law of Bahá’u’lláh, memorialized by Nabil
Zarandi in “The Dawn Breakers” for securing sanctuary for
Bahá’u’lláh during the upheavals of 1852. Her father, Majíd Áhy, the
scion of a prominent family was a high-ranking government official
who was graduated in law and political science from Moscow State
University. Her Russian mother, Raeisa Duvinskaya grew up in
Moscow and was trained in piano and opera singing at the famous
conservatory of Moscow prior to moving to Tehran to marry.

In Memoriam: Lily Ayman

Though born in Tehran, friends from her early childhood still
remember her from pre-school classes in Shiraz where she lived while
her father was governor of the province of Fars. She then completed
her elementary and middle school education in Tehran, where her
father was Minister of Justice. Upon her father’s appointment as
Iranian ambassador to the Soviet Union, she accompanied her parents
to Moscow where she completed high school and enrolled at Moscow
State University to study French and Russian languages and literature.
When her father, fell ill, she and the rest of the family members
accompanied him back home to Tehran, where he soon passed away.
Lily completed university degrees in philosophy and education at the
University of Tehran and the National Teachers College. During this
period, she also served as assistant to Professor M.B. Hushyar in
developing a new and simplified method for teaching reading and
writing Persian. While still an undergraduate student, Lily translated
“Enfants Difficiles” (Difficult Children) from French to Persian and
it was published in 1949. After graduation, she started to serve as a
teacher at the Anoushiravan Dadgar secondary school for girls.
Lily married Iraj Ayman in London in 1951 and pursued post
graduate studies at London University and the University of Edinburg
in Scotland when she gave birth to her first child Roya. Upon their
return from Scotland to Iran in 1954, she was appointed as Co-
Director of Educational and Vocational Guidance Center at the
Department of Research and Curriculum Development, and
instructor of the In-Service Teacher Training Program at the Ministry
of Education. In the same year, she organized, for the first time in
Iran, a summer school for children. The following year, the young
family moved to Los Angeles, California, where Iraj completed his
Ph.D. at the University of Southern California. Lily worked at the
Salvation Army Nursery as teacher and school psychologist and gave
birth to their second child, Saba.
In 1957, she and her family returned to Tehran where she
embarked on a distinguished academic, literary and professional
career. While serving as a member of International Committee for
the Evaluation of Reading Comprehension of the International
Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (I. E.
A.), Lily was teaching child education and children’s literature at the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
University of Tehran where she continued her interest in developing a
modern research-based approach to teaching children and new
literates. Three years later, this passion earned her a fellowship for
further post graduate study at the Teachers College of Columbia
University in New York City.
The desire to instill a love of reading into future generations was a
dominating passion underlying her work. To this end, she found time
to write numerous stories and books for children and co-founded
Shorá-ye Ketáb-e Kudak (Children’s Book Council), a non-
governmental institution, which she served as Board member and
Executive Secretary General for two decades. She was also an
enthusiastic supporter of the International Board of Books for
Young People (IBBY) – a Switzerland based NGO that brought her in
contact with colleagues around the world, serving many years on its
Executive Board and an additional two years as IBBY Vice-President.
Lily’s leadership in education was officially recognized when she
was the first and only woman appointed to the High Council of
Education of Iran, the country’s highest authority in educational
administration. She put all of her skills to practical use as the lead
author of textbooks officially adopted throughout Iran for teaching
reading and writing in primary schools. During this period, she gave
birth to their third child, Rama.
The wide horizon of her interest in pedagogy also extended to
adults in a country where adult literacy was hovering around 30
percent. Lily was appointed as Head of the Department of Life-long
Education and Training, National Center for Adult Education and
Training as well as Educational Consultant to the Secretary-General
of the National Committee for World Literacy Program and she was
in charge of the preparation of textbooks, reading materials and
training programs. She also served as Director of a research project
on Basic Vocabulary of the Persian Language. This project gathered a
sample of ten million words from oral and written language in actual
use by adults and children in both urban and rural communities in
different geographical regions of the country, having elementary
education or less. One fruit of this research was the identification of
a basic vocabulary of one thousand most used Persian words which
served as a reference in preparing reading materials for new literates.

In Memoriam: Lily Ayman
She was the recipient of numerous medals and awards including:
o  Educational Medal (First Class), Ministry of Education
o  Best Book of the Year Prize (Award of Distinction)
o  Scientific Medal (First Class) of Ministry of Education
o  UNESCO National Commission (Iran) International Book of
the Year
o  Award for development of reading materials for new-literates
o  Gold Medal (Highest award for services rendered) by the
National
o  Committee for World Literacy Program in Iran
Lily was a lover of poetry and literary classics. Her elegant
command of language extended that love beyond Persian to Russian,
French and English literature. Ever desirous of enriching the literary
environment of her country, she was a supporter of Bongáh-e
Tarjomeh va Nashr-e Ketáb (Institute of Book Translation and
Publication) managed by Dr. Ehsan Yarshater where she established
and managed a section for the translation and publication of
children’s literature. Throughout her career, she was a regular
contributor to multiple educational journals and Bahá’í periodicals.
In addition, she was the author or translator of more than 40
published books and stories.
Although, for many years, Lily had a close association with many
friends in the Bahá’í communities in Iran, the UK and the USA, and
participated in various Bahá’í activities and services, according to her
own testimony, she only began to realize the significance and
universality of the Faith while travelling in the Andean countries of
South American in connection with her work to raise literacy rates. It
was there that she was deeply impressed by the spiritual and social
effects of the Faith in those regions. On a visit to the Bahá’í World
Center in 1974, she formally embraced the Baha’i Faith, declaring her
allegiance to the Bahá’í Cause in the presence of Hands of the Cause
of God and members of the Universal House of Justice at the
celebration of the anniversary of the Declaration of the Báb in Shiraz
in May 1844. Upon her return to Iran, she was appointed to the

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
National Committees for the Advancement of Women and Teacher
Training for Bahá’í Education.
Just as it was for so many others, life for Lily and her family was
completely upended by the Islamic revolution. In January 1979, with
schools closed and the nation in turmoil, Lily and Iraj sent their
young son Rama to live with his sister in Chicago so he could
temporarily continue his high school education. A few months later,
her husband Iraj facing arrest and possible execution, made what he
hoped would be a short-term visit to the United States to attend an
international conference in an executive capacity and to visit their
daughter and son in Chicago. Amidst the turmoil and suspicion of
that time, Lily was denied permission to leave the country for several
months. In late summer, she too embarked on what she hoped would
be a short visit to the United States while waiting for conditions in
Iran to settle down. However, after her arrival she was warned by
friends and colleagues of multiple calls for her execution due to her
progressive outlook, and her embrace of the Bahá’í Faith earlier in the
decade. It was not long before news arrived that all their property
and assets in Iran were being confiscated and the hopes of an early
return began to fade. Months became years, then decades and she was
never again to return to her beloved homeland.
Soon after taking up residence in Chicago, she observed a dire
need for materials to teach reading and writing in Persian to children
of the rapidly growing Iranian diaspora. To meet this need, she
authored two books: “Farsi Beyamuzim” (Teaching Persian) and “Iran
ra Beshenasim” (To Know Iran) together with teacher guides which
are still widely used globally. She followed up with “Shadmaneh
Kudakaneh” (A Collection of Parables for Children) and “Yek Hezar
Vajeh Páyeh Zaban-e Farsi” (One Thousand Basic Persian Words).
Despite her family’s straightened circumstances, she allowed them to
be published with no royalties to facilitate their dissemination at a
lower cost to expatriate Iranian families around the world.
After leaving Iran, Lily’s services to the Bahá’í community grew
exponentially. The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the
United States appointed her to its National Education Committee and
the Bahá’ís of Chicago elected her to serve on the Spiritual Assembly
of that city. In March 1983 Iraj received an appointment from the
UNESCO Asia-Pacific Regional Office in Bangkok. Thus, began a

In Memoriam: Lily Ayman
six-year sojourn in Bangkok and Paris. She was elected to serve on the
Bahá’í Spiritual Assemblies of both cities, supported a school and
library in the northern mountains of Thailand and picked up a
respectable grasp of the Thai language along the way, adding to her
already enviable list of linguistic accomplishments in Persian,
Russian, French and English. While living in Bangkok, Lily Ayman
served as President of the United Nations Women Association of
Thailand and was a member of the Literacy Education Panel at
UNESCO Regional Headquarters for the Asia and Pacific Region.
1988 was another landmark year. Iraj retired from UNESCO in
Paris and together they moved to St. Gallen, Switzerland where Iraj,
with her able assistance assumed leadership of founding and managing
the Landegg Academy at Wienacht near Lake Constance, developing
it into a vibrant Bahá’í Learning Center and an International Institute
for Educational Development and Administration. Over the next six
years, Lily was coordinator of programs on Education and Family
Life and organized and managed the Academy’s Program of
Education for Peace. She also served on the Spiritual Assembly of St.
Gallen.
Soon upon her arrival in Switzerland, Lily Ayman was appointed
by the Universal House of Justice to serve on a special Task Force on
Education with a mandate to stimulate educational initiatives in
Baha’i communities worldwide. As part of her contribution to this
effort, she authored “LITERACY: Some Practical Suggestions” which
was published under the imprimatur of the Task Force in 1992.
Lily was deeply in love with her home country, its language, and
culture. Following her return to Chicago in 1994, she was invited to
teach Persian as a visiting assistant professor at the University of
Chicago. Together with her husband Iraj Ayman, she helped to
strengthen and further develop the annual conferences of the
Association of the Friends of Persian Culture, an activity which they
had originally initiated and developed at Landegg Academy. For the
remainder of her life, she devoted her energies to the Bahá’í
Community of Chicago, serving as Secretary of its Spiritual
Assembly, Managing Editor of its newsletter and as a member of
various other administrative committees. Meanwhile, she continued
assisting those who were engaged in teaching Persian and were
contacting her from various parts of the world. An active participant

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
in myriad community activities, she will especially be remembered for
her dedication to teaching the Faith, hosting monthly “fireside”
discussion gatherings for over two decades. She was a stalwart
supporter of the Irfan Colloquium, assisting with the organization of
colloquia in California, Michigan, the United Kingdom and Italy,
helping to recruit participants and insisting on the importance of
maintaining the regularity of its activities. In addition to all the
above, Lily Ayman will be remembered for her commitment to
creating a vibrant and close-knit multi-racial Bahá’í community
across the segregated neighborhoods that mark the south side of
Chicago. She visited the homes of Bahá’ís, rich and poor, intellectuals
and the unlettered, black, brown, no matter where they lived and
they, likewise, were drawn to hers, creating lasting close relationships
that embraced the diversity of the community.
Lily Ayman passed away in Chicago on September 6, 2018. In
accordance with her wish, she is buried in the Oakwood Cemetery, a
few blocks from the home of her dear friend and illustrious Bahá’í
teacher, Gwili Posey. Lily’s resting place is nestled near the graves of
the family of Hand of the Cause of God Corinne True, a site marked
with an obelisk commemorating the spot visited by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
May 1912. Lily is survived by her husband, Iraj Ayman, her three
children Roya, Saba and Rama and her five grandchildren, Omíd,
Majíd, Jahán, Yasmine and Kian.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice
ADP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries
GPB
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HE
Shoghi Effendi, High Endeavors: Messages to Alaska
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
LG
Compilation, Lights of Guidance
MBW
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PDC
Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
SCHC
Compilation, Scholarship
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of The Báb
TAB1-3
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TDP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, A Traveller’s Narrative
TU
Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity
UD
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament

Appendices


Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-19
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Faríd ud-Dín A††ár
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: Summary of Glorious Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and
Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-baqá’
burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Translation
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation, Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude, the Mystical Heart: Hidden Essence of God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen

Appendices


The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan ‘Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg: A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the Templer Leader
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd: Guidance on Human Nature and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Persianate and Bábí Sources
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women of
Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án Commentaries
of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne and
Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafá Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown

Appendices


Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manuchehr Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity
of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and Spirit
of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Alí Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional
Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts from the
Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas

Appendices


Designation of Mírzá Ya˙yá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
‘Alí Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An Exposition
on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat
Amín Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Alí Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Appendices


Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of ’Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amín Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Bahárieh Rouhani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Alí Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about God
Moojan Momen

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge
The New Atheism — A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Alí Nakhjavani
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Alí Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen, © 2013
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing

Appendices


Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine Fire in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy — Theology — Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-Ruz
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt. Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of Humanity
During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910 — 5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fifteen, © 2014
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend: Reflection on Bahá’í Scholarship
as a Journey in the Valley of Search
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings
Part II: Deeper into the Writings
Ian Kluge

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious History and the
Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Bahárieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Origins of Creation
Farjam Majd
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society
Moojan Momen
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call: (mast-and bulbulán)
Julio Savi
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics
Foad Seddigh
Non-Involvement in Politics
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam:
Hushmand Fatheazam (1924-2013)
Amín Banani (1926-2013)
Mahboubeh Arjmand (d. 2013)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Sixteen, © 2015
The Ten Plagues of the Exodus in Light of the Bahá’í Writings
JoAnn M. Borovicka
Freud’s Transference and the Four States of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Procrustes’ Bed: The Insufficiency of Secular Humanism
Ian Kluge
Women and Wisdom in Scripture
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani
On Existence and Qualities of the Human Soul
Farjam Majd
Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related to Law in Bahá’í Scripture
Moojan Momen
Shared Prosperity: How Does That Work?

Appendices


Wendi Momen
A Hymn to Love (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí)
Julio Savi
“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”: An early fruit of the Supreme Pen
Julio Savi
Intellectual Life and the Future of Bahá’í Studies
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam: Kamran Ekbal (1946-2014)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seventeen, © 2016
Addressing the Rising Tide of Globalization and Amorality in the Present World
Order and Its Implications on Extremes of Wealth and Poverty
Rama Ayman
Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
JoAnn M. Borovicka
The Language of the Heart: From Dream Language towards Understanding the
Language of the Heart
Wolfgang Klebel
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge
Memorials of the Faithful: Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
Marlene Koswan
Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of Sainthood
Moojan Momen
The Concept of ‘Faithfulness’ in the Bahá’í Texts in English Translation
Wendi Momen
An Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Julio Savi
Significance of Some Sites Mentioned in Memorials of the Faithful
Foad Seddigh
Hagiography: The Art Inspirational Examples for a Religious Community

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Iscander Micael Tinto
Translation of Key Bahá’í Terms
Universal House of Justice
Suggestions about Changes in the Administrative Order
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam: Houshang Arjmand (1930-2015)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eighteen, © 2017
An Inquiry on the Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
Hooshmand Badee
Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
JoAnn Borovicka
Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind: Bahá’í Gloss on a Buddhist Puzzle
Roland Faber
Themes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of The Divine Plan Illustrated by Scriptural
References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Lameh Fananapazir
Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge
“Some Answered Questions” and Its Compiler
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani
A Comparison between the Commentary and Interpretation of an Islamic
Tradition by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Ayatu’llah Khomeini
Moojan Momen
In the Presence of the Beloved: Bahá’u’lláh’s Law ̇-i-Liqá’: A Revised Provisional
Translation and Notes
Nima Rafiei
Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani

Appendices


Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nineteen, © 2018
Some Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
Hooshmand Badee
Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission: “This is the One Who Hath Glorified the Son”
JoAnn Borovicka
Laozi: A Lost Prophet?
Roland Faber
Freedom and the Baha’i Writings
Ian Kluge
The Kitáb-i-Iqán (The Book of Certitude): Revolutionizing the Concepts of Religion,
Eschatology and Theology
Sohrab Kourosh
Power and the Bahá’í community
Moojan Momen
A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
provisional translation by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Ancient Poems as Means of Revelation, in an Early Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Mathnaví of Rúhu’lláh, the Martyr
translated by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Mathnaví by Rúhu’lláh Varqá, the Martyr: A Few Notes on Its Historical Context
and Poetical Content
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Countenance of the Blessed Beauty in the Mirror of Mawlúd Tablets
Foad Seddigh
End of Days
Moshe Sharon
Bahá’í Fast: a compilation
Persian translation of Arabic verses
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam: Dr. Muhammad Afnan (1930 — 2017)
In Memoriam: Dr. Heshmat Shariary (1934 — 2018)

Lights of Irfán vol. 20
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
Moojan Momen (ed.), Scripture & Revelation (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions (Oxford:
George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at
‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to Twenty (2000–2019)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safíni-yi ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia (in Persian), Books One to Twenty-one (1998–2018)
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums: Compilations of
Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in German), Books One to Six
(Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í Verlag, 2004–2017)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation (Darmsdat,
Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalíl-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun is the Sun)
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy-i‘-i-Ma‘ání va Tafsír (The Wonders of Inner Meanings
and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic
Verses and Islamic Traditions (Darmsdat: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)
Sháhbaz Fatheazam, The Last Refuge: Fifty Years of the Universal House of
Justice (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2015)
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950 Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921 Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170 Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Appendices


Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
The ‘Irfán Colloquium aims at promoting and supporting
systematic studies of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í beliefs, the
Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith, the interface of
the Bahá’í Faith with intellectual schools of thought and religious
traditions, and looking at current challenges in human society from
the Bahá’í perspective. ‘Irfán is a Persian word referring to mystical,
theological and spiritual knowledge. The ‘Irfán Colloquium and its
publications are sponsored by Haj Mehdi Memorial Fund.
The Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund was established by
Houshang Arjmand (1930–2015) in 1992 to honor his grand-father,
Haj Mehdi Arjmand, and is dedicated to promoting the scholarly
study of the Bahá’í Faith. Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-1941) was a
Persian scholar and teacher of the Bahá’í Faith who became well
known in Iran for his profound knowledge of the Bible, Qur’an, and
Bahá’í scriptures. The primary activity of the Fund is sponsoring
annual sessions of ‘Irfán Colloquium and ‘Irfán publications.
In 2012, benefiting from the guidance received from the Universal
House of Justice, a management board was appointed for this fund
to function as a Bahá’í agency under the direction of the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States. Organizing and holding
‘Irfán Colloquia started in 1993 and are presently held seven times
every year in North America and Western Europe in English, Persian
and German languages under the auspices of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the host country.
As of June 2019 one hundred and sixty sessions of colloquia have
been held. Papers in English presented or received at the ‘Irfán
Colloquia are annually published in a series of volumes of the Lights
of ‘Irfán.