HENRY CORBIN
Spiritual Body
and
Celestial Earth
From Mazdean Iran to Shi 'ite Iran
Translated from the French by
NANCY PEARSON
BOLLINGEN SERIES XCI : 2
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS

Copyright © 1977 by Princeton University Press
Published by Princeton University Press,
Princeton, New Jersey
All Rights Reserved
THIS IS PART TWO OF THE NINETY-FIRST IN A SERIES OF WORKS
SPONSORED BY
BOLLINGEN FOUNDATION
Published in French as
Terre celeste et corps de resurrection:
de l'lran mazdeen a l'lran shi'ite
( Collection "La Barque du Soleil") ,
Buchet-Chastel, Paris, 1960.
Part One was originally published in French (in slightly
different form ) in Eranos-Jahrbuch XXII (1953) by
Rhein-Verlag, Zurich.
The translation of the prelude
to the second edition is
reprinted courtesy of
Editions Buche-Chastel.
Fifth printing, with Prelude to the Second Edition, 1989
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data will
be found on the last printed page of this book
Printed in the United States of America
by Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey

CONTENTS
Prelude to the Second Edition
Prologue
Publisher's Note
Note on Illustrations
PART ONE
SPIRITUAL BODY AND CELESTIAL EARTH
vii
xxi
XXX
xxxi
Chapter I. The Mazdean Imago Terrae
I. "The Earth Is an Angel"
2. The Earth of the Seven Keshvars
3. Visionary Geography
4. Geosophy and the Feminine Angels of the Earth
Chapter II. The Mystical Earth of Hurqalyi
5 1
I. Progre&sio harmonica: FiiȆima, Daughter of the Prophet,
and the Celestial Earth
5 1
2 .  The "Eighth Climate"
3. Hiirqalya, Earth of Visions
4. Hurqalyii, Earth of Resurrection
PART TWO
SELECTIONS FROM TRADITIONAL TEXTS
Introduction : The Texts and Their Authors
I. Shihibuddln Yabyl Suhrawardl ( d. 587 I 1 191 )
Hurqalyii, the World of Autonomous Images and
Imaginative Perception
1 18
II. Mu):lylddln ibn 'Arabi (d. 638/1240 )
The Earth Which Was Created from What
Remained of the Clay of Adam
III. Di'iid Qayȇarl ( d. 751/1350 )
Mundus Archetypu&
IV. 'Abd al-Karlm Jill ( d. 805/1403 )
I. Al-A'rif, the Earth of the Watchers
2. The Journey of the Stranger and the Conversation
with KhiŁr
v

Contents
V. Shamsuddln Mul:_lammad Lahljl (d. 869/1465 )
Jabalqa and Jabarf.ia
VI. Ðadruddln Mul:_lammad Shirazi ( Mulla !;)adra)
(d. 1050/1640 )
Spissitudo Spiritualis
VII. 'Abd al-Razzaq Liihljl (d. 1072/1662 )
Oriental Theosophists and Peripatetic Philosophers
1 7 1
VIII. Mul:_lsin Fay֍ Kashanl (d. 109 1/1680 )
A World in Which Spirits Are Corporealized and in
Which Bodies Are Spiritualized
17 6
IX. The Shaikhl School: Shaikh Al:_lmad Al:_lsa"'
(d. 1241/1 826 )
1. Physiology of the Resurrection Body
1 80
2. On the Esoteric Meaning of the Tomb
3. The Heavens and Elements of Hurqalya
1 9 1
4 .  Alchemy and the Resurrection Body
5. The Active Imagination and the Resurrection Body
2 10
X. Shaikh l:lajj Mul:_lammad Karim Khan Kirmanr, Second
Successor of Shaikh Al:_lmad Al:_lsa'l ( d. 1288/1870 )
1. In What Sense the Body of the Faithful Believer is
the Earth of His Paradise
2. A World in Ascent, Not in Evolution
XI. Shaikh Abu'l-Qasim Khan Ibrahim I ( Sarkar Agha) ,
Fifth Successor of Shaikh Al:_lmad Al:_lsa'l
( b. 1 314/1896 )
The Celestial Earth of Hurqalya and the Shl'ite Faith
Notes
List of Works Cited
Index

TOWARDS A CHART OF THE IMAGINAL
Prelude to the Second Edition of
CORPS SPIRITUEL ET TERRE CtLESTE
de /'Iran Mazdeen a /'Iran Shfite
HENRY CORBIN
It is a long time-and we shall say this again below-since west­
ern philosophy, let us call it "official philosophy," drawn along in
the wake of the positive sciences, has admitted only two sources
of Knowledge (Connaitre). There is sense perception which gives
the data we call empirical. And there are the concepts of under­
standing (entendement), the world of the laws governing these
empirical data. Certainly, Phenomenology has modified and over­
taken this simplificatory epistemology (gnoseologie). Yet the fact
remains that between the sense perceptions and the intuitions or
categories of the intellect there has remained a void. That which
ought to have taken its place between the two, and which in other
times and places did occupy this intermediate space, that is to say
the Active Imagination, has been left to the poets. The very thing
that a rational and reasonable.scientific philosophy cannot envis­
age is that this Active Imagination in man (one ought to say
rather "agent imagination" in the way that medieval philosophy
spoke of "intellectus agens") should have its own noetic or cogni­
tive function, that is to say it gives us access to a region and a
reality of Being which without that function remains closed and
forbidden to us. For such a science it was understood that the
Imagination secretes nothing but the imaginary, that is, the un­
real, the mythic, the marvellous, the fictive, etc.
On this account there remains no hope of recovering the reality
sui generis of a suprasensible world which is neither the empirical
world of the senses nor the abstract world of the intellect. It has
furthermore for a long time now seemed to us radically impossible
to rediscover the actual reality-we would say the reality in act­
proper to the "Angelic World," a reality prescribed in Being it­
self, not in any way a myth dependent on socio-political or socio­
economic infrastructures. It is impossible to penetrate, in the way
VII

Prelude to the Second Edition
in which one penetrates into a real world, into the universe of the
Zoroastrian angelology of which the first chapter of this book de­
scribes certain aspects. We would say as much of the angeloph­
anies of the Bible. For a long period I have been searching, like a
young philosopher, for the key to this world as a real world,
which is neither the sensible world nor the world of abstract con­
cepts. It was in Iran itself that I had to find it, in the two ages of
the spiritual world of Iran. This is why the two parts of this book
are strictly binding on one another and interdependent. A con­
trast due essentially to the fact that their epistemology, foreign to
this dualism, gives room, as for the necessary mediating power,
for this agent Imagination which is imaginatrice. It is a cognitive
power in its own right. Its mediating faculty is to make us able to
know without any reservation that region of Being which, with­
out this mediation, would remain forbidden ground, and whose
disappearance brings on a catastrophe of the Spirit, where we
have by no means yet taken the measure of all the consequences.
It is essentially a median and mediating power, in the same way
that the universe to which it is regulated and to which it gives
access, is a median and mediating universe, an intermediate world
between the sensible and the intellectual (intelligible), an inter­
mediate world without which articulation between sensible and
Intellectual (intelligible) is definitely blocked. And then pseudo­
dilemmas pullulate in the shadows, every escape or resolution
closed to them.
Neither the active nor the agent Imagination is thus in any
sense an organ for the secretion of the imaginary, the unreal, the
mythic, or the fictive. For this reason we absolutely had to find a
tƽrm to differentiate radically the intermediate world of the Imag­
ination, such as we find it presented to the minds of our Iranian
metaphysicians, from the merely imaginary. The Latin language
came to our assistance, and the expression mundus imaginalis is
the literal equivalent of the Arabic 'a/am al-mithdl, al-'alam al­
mithdli, in French the "monde imaginal," a key-term over which
we hesitated at the time of the first edition of this book. (The
Latin terms have the advantage of fixing the thematic forms and
Kllarding them from hazardous or arbitrary translations. We shall
lnukcW plcXntiful UHr of the-m here-.) In NO rar as it hus not hc·c·n
viii

Prelude to the Second Edition
named and specified, a world cannot rise into Being and Knowl­
edge (Connaitre). This key-term, mundus imaginalis, commands
the complete network of notions appropriate to the precise level
of Being and Knowlƾdge which it connotes: imaginative percep­
tion, imaginative knowledge, imaginative consciousness. While
we encounter in other philosophies or systems a distrust of the
Image, a degradation of all that properly belongs to the Imagina­
tion, the mundus imaginalis is its exaltation, because it is the link
in whose absence the schema of the worlds is put out of joint.
Our authors tell us again and again that there are three worlds:
I. The p':Jre intellectual world ('dlam 'aqli), denoted in their the­
osophy as Jabanlt or world of pure cherubic Intelligences. 2. The
imaginal world ('dlam.mithdli) known also in their theosophy as
Malakut, the world of the Soul and of souls. 3. The sensible world
('dlam hissi) which is the "domain" (molk) of material things. Cor­
relatively the Forms of Being and Knowledge respectively proper
to these three worlds are denoted technically as: 1. The Intellec­
tual Forms (sowar 'aqliya). 2. The Imaginal Forms (sowar mith­
dliya). 3. The· Sensible Forms (sowar hissiya), those which fall
under sense perception. The French vocabulary to be found
throughout this book is thuƿ of a rigorous precision and "sticks"
closely to the Arabic technical terms as also used constantly in
Persian.
As for the function of the mundus imaginalis and the Imaginal
Forms, it is defined by their median and mediating situation be­
tween the intellectual and sensible worlds. On the one hand it
immaterialises the Sensible Forms, on the other it "imaginalises"
the Intellectual Forms to which it gives shape and dimension.
The Imaginal world creates symbols on the one hand from the
Sensible Forms, on the other from the Intellectual Forms. It is this
median situation which imposes on the imaginative faculty a dis­
cipline which would be unthinkable where it had been degraded
into "fantasy," secreting only the imaginary, the unreal, and ca­
pable of every kind of extravagance. Here there is the same total
difference already recognised and clearly remarked by Paracelsus
between the imaginatio vera (Imagination in the true sense) and
"Phmua.¥y."
In ordf•r that th௩ fornwr Hhould not degenerate into the latter,
IX

Prelude to the Second Edition
precisely this discipline, which is inconceivable if the imaginative
power, the active Imagination, is exiled from the scheme of Being
and Knowledge, is required. Such a discipline would not be ca­
pable of involving the interest of an imagination reduced to the
role of folie du logis or inspired fool, but it is inherent in a median
and mediating faculty whose ambiguity consists of its being able
to put itself at the service of that Intellect whose supreme degree
our philosophers denote as the intellectus sanctus faql qodsi), il­
luminated by the intelligentia agens ('aql fa"al) who is the Angel
of the Holy Spirit. The seriousness of the role of the Imagination
is stressed by our philosophers when they state that it can be "the
Tree of Blessedness" or on the contrary "the Accursed Tree" of
which the Quran speaks, 1 that which means Angel or Demon in
power. The imaginary can be innocuous; the imaginal never can
be so.
One takes the decisive step in the metaphysic of the imaginal
and the Imagination when one admits with Molla Sadra Shirazi
that the imaginative power is a purely spiritual faculty indepen­
dent of the physical organism and consequently surviving it. We
shall see in the course of the texts translated here that it is the
formative power of the subtle body or imaginal body (jism
mithdli), indeed this subtle body itself, forever inseparable from
the soul, that is from the moi-esprit, from the spiritual individuǀl­
ity. It is thus as well to forget all that the Peripatetic philosophers
or others have been able to say about it, when they speak of it as
being like a bodily faculty and perishing with the organic body
whose ordinance it follows.
The immateriality of the imaginative power was already fully
affirmed by Ibn 'Arabi when he differentiated between the abso­
lute imaginal Forms, that is to say such as subsist in the Malakut,
and the "captive" imaginal Forms, that is, those immanent in the
imaginative consciousness of man in this world. The former are
in the world of the Soul (arne) or Malakut, epiphanies or theoph­
anies, that is to say, imaginal manifestations of the pure Intellec­
tual Forms of the J abarut. The latter are in their turn manifesta­
tions of the imaginal Forms of the Malakut or world of the Soul to
man's imaginative consciousness. It is therefore perfectly exact
here to speak of nwtuphysical lmuges. Now tht>st• cannot be re-
X

Prelude to the Second Edition
ceived unless by a spiritual organ. The solidarity and interdepen­
dence between the active Imagination defined as a spiritual fac­
ulty and the necessity of the mundus imaginalis as an intermediate
world respond to the need of a conception which considers the
worlds and the forms of Being as so many theophanies (tajalliyat
ilahiya).
We thus find ourselves in the presence of a number of philoso­
phers who refuse indifferently a philosophy or a theology which
lacks the element of theophany. Sohravardi and all the Ishraqui­
yun who follow him have always considered the "Perfect Sage" as
being the Sage who gathers to himself equally the highest philo­
sophical knowledge and the mystical experience modelled on the
visionary experience of the Prophet, the night of the Mi'raj. Now
the organ of visions, of whatever degree they may be, whether in
the case of the philosophers or of the prophets, is neither the in­
tellect nor the fleshly eyes, but the fire of that imaginatio vera of
which the Burning Bush is for Sohravardi the type. In the sensi­
ble form it is then the Imaginal Form itself which is from the very
first and at one and the same time the perceived form and the
organ of visionary perception. The Theophanic Forms are in their
essence Imaginal Forms.
This is to say that the mundus imaginalis is the place, and con­
sequently the world, where not only the visions of the prophets,
the visions of the mystics, the visionary events which each human
soul traverses at the time of his exitus from this world, the events
of the lesser Resurrection and of the Greater Resurrection "take
place" and have their "place," but also the gestes of the mystical
epics, the symbolic acts of all the rituals of initiation, liturgies in
general with all their symbols, the "composition of the ground"
in various methods of prayer (oraison), the spiritual filiations
whose authenticity is not within the competence of documents
and archives, and equally the esoteric processus of the Alchemical
Work, in connection with which the First Imam of the Shi'ites
was able to say "Alchemy is the sister of Prophecy." Finally the
"Biographies of Archangels" are by their nature imaginal history,
since everything in them happens in the Malakut. Thus, if one
deprives all this of its proper place which is the mundus imagin­
a/is, and of its proper organ of perception which is the uctive
xi

Prelude to the Second Edition
Imagination, nothing of it has a "place" any more, and conse­
quently no longer "takes place." It is no longer anything but
imaginary and fictive.
With the loss of the imaginatio vera and of the mundus imagin­
alis nihilism and agnosticism begin. This is why we said a few
lines above that we ought to forget here all that the Aristotelians
and similar philosophers have said of the Imagination when they
treat it as a bodily faculty. It is just this that makes the efforts of
certain among the Jewish and Islamic philosophers to construct a
philosophic theory of Prophecy pathetic. In truth, they do not ex­
tricate themselves from the difficulty. Either the prophet is assim­
ilated to the philosopher or the philosopher does not know what
to make of Prophecy. On the other hand the conjunction is ef­
fected without difficulty by those of our philosophers who were
persuaded that their confreres, starting with the ancient Greek
Sages as well as those of ancient Persia, derived their higher
knowledge from the Niche aux /umieres of Prophecy (Mishkdt a/­
nobowwat). It is precisely here that Philosopher and Prophet
unite in one single vocation.
The Prophet is not a diviner of future events but the spokesman
of the invisible and of the Invisible Ones, and it is this that gives
its sense to a "prophetic philosophy" (hikmat nabawiya). A pro­
phetic philosophy is thus a "narrative philosophy," absolved of the
dilemma which obsesses those who ask: is it myth or is it history?
In other words: is it real or is it unreal? Is it fiction or is it true? A
prophetic philosophy is a liberation from this pseudo-dilemma.
The events which it describes are neither myth nor history in the
ordinary sense of the words. It is the history of the Malakut­
what we shall call imaginal history-in the same way as the coun­
tries and the places of this history constitute an imaginal geogra­
phy, that of the "celestial earth."
Access to this imaginal history is opened up for us by that her­
meneutic par excellence which is denoted by the word ta'wil,
which literally means to "reconduct something to its source," to
its archetype, to its true reality. Twelve-ImAm Shi'ites as well as
Ismaili Shf'ites have excelled in this art, since ta'wil is at once the
province and the incentive of their esotericism as the "seventh
day" completing the Hix clay11 of tlw Cr«•ation. To the straight-
xu

Prelude to the Second Edition
forward exoteric reader what appears to be the true sense is the
literal reading. What one proposes to him as the spiritual sense
appears to him as the metaphoric sense, as "allegory" which he
confuses with "symbol." For the esoteric it is the opposite: the so­
called literal sense is only a metaphor (majdz). The true sense
(haqiqat) is the event which this metaphor conceals.
Just as for the Kabbalists, true events are the eternal relations
between the ten Sephiroth, concealed beneath the accounts of the
exterior happenings related by the Bible, so for the Shi'ite esoter­
ics two-thirds of the Quran are to be read in their hidden and true
sense (haqiqat) as narration of the drama which is played out be­
tween the Holy Imams and their antagonists from before the cre­
ation of this world. This is not allegory: it consists of true events.
Hegel said that philosophy consists in turning the world inside
out. Let us say rather that this world is here and now inside out.
The ta'wil and the prophetic philosophy consist in putting it right
side out once more.
As the name of Hegel has just been uttered, now is the right mo­
ment in our preface to give the actual meaning of our leitmotifs
for western philosophy. When the mystical theosophists repre­
sented in this book experience and affirm the necessity of the in­
termediate world, of an intermediary between the sensory and the
intellectual, their position is exactly that of Jacob Boehme. Be­
tween the intellectual and the sensible, or expressed more pre­
cisely still, between the transcendent and hidden Deity, the Deitas
abscondita, and the world of man, Boehme places an irrtermediary
which he calls the sacred Element, a "spiritual corp<)reity" which
represents the Dwelling, the Divine Presence, for our world. This
Dwelling is Wisdom itself, Sophia. This Presence is the Shekhina
of the Kabbalists. It is the imaginal locus of an entirely spiritual
incarnation, for all eternity anterior to that Incarnation which ex­
oteric religion places in history, that history which for Shi'ites,
theosophists and Ismailis is nothing but the metaphor of the True
Reality.
Either way it is the idea of Theophany which is dominant,
muking itself evident by its own nature and of necessity between
thr intrllrctual and the sensible, and what is denoted as Sophia,
xiii

Prelude to the Second Edition
as the "Soul of the World," is at the same time the imaginal locus
and the organ of this Theophany. It is at once the necessary me­
diatrix, the Deus revelatus, between pure Divinity, for ever con­
cealed, beyond our reach, and man's world. This is what we have
in another place called the "paradox of monotheism" and it is a
constant theme in all those doctrines in the "religions of the book"
which are in one way or another related to the Kabbala. Equally
in Jewish mysticism the Hassidim have established a triple differ­
entiation: there is the unknowable God, there is the place of the
emanation of the Glory, which is the "countenance on high" and
which even the Angels do not know; lastly there is the manifested
Glory, the "countenance beneath," the only one we can contem­
plate. This "countenance beneath" is the Angel Metatron as
"Angel of the Countenance" who is equally the Presence, the
Sophia, the Soul of the World.
Now every kind of dualism which has in one way or another
come out of Cartesianism or which is closely related to it has re­
jected the necessity of just this spiritual mediating entity. Our
western philosophy has been the theatre of what we may call the
"battle for the Soul of the World." On the one hand, like "stainless
knights" protecting this Soul, the Cambridge Platonists (Henry
More, Ralph Cudworth); Jacob Boehme and his school with all
those related to them; the "Boehmian" Newton; the Christian
Kabbalists like F. C. Oetinger in whom currents of thought com­
ing from Boehme and Swedenborg intersect. On the other, they
find their antagonists: Descartes, Fr. Mersenne, Malebranche,
Bayle, indubitably also Leibniz and Christian Wolff, and the list
extends on down to our own days. Is it a matter of a battle that
has finally been lost, the world having lost its soul, a defeat whose
consequences weigh upon our modem visions of the world with­
out compensation? If there has been a defeat, a defeat is still not a
refutation. We know a certain number of young philosophers
alive today who are deeply concerned with the wish to turn the
scales once more in this struggle. This is why we spoke above of
the actuality of the themes of this book; an actuality which ranges
our "Piatonists of Persia" at the side of the Cumhridge Platonists.
The necessity for the mundus imagiuali.v, rxprrit"nced and af­
firnwcl by our l!ihrftquiyfln, is pred!ic•ly thr nrrrNNity lc1r thut me-
XIV

Prelude to the Second Edition
diation of which Jacob Boehme and his followers have just re­
minded us. More exactly still: this mundus imaginalis, world of
Hurqalya, world of Malakut or world of Soul, is the "Celestial
Earth" and the "Celestial Corporeity." Just as the Sophia is oth­
erwise the imaginal place of the Divine Presence in our world, so
the celestial Earth, present to the secret nostalgia in men's hearts,
is typified in the Shi'ite gnosis by the person of Fatima the Re­
splendent, the daughter of the Prophet. Fatima is the Sophia of
the Shi'ite theosophy and cosmogony.
We will now introduce here the Shi'ite concept of the First Em­
anation (first theophany) of that Principle which is beyond every
Name and every Attribute. This First Emanation is typified by
the primordial Muhammadic Light (Nur mohammedi), consti­
tuted by certain figures of light, that is to say, the respective meta­
physical entities known as the Fourteen Immaculate Ones. The
eternal succession of their births brings with it the birth of the
worlds. Their Pleroma is the Dwelling, the necessary mediation
between the transcendent God, concealed and inaccessible, and
the world of men. The Fourteen Immaculate Ones are collectively
"the Angel of the Countenance." A metaphysical narrative will
show us in the course of this book, how the eternal person of
Fatima-Sophia constitutes the Sophianity of the pleroma of the
Fourteen Immaculate Ones, and how by the cosmogonic virtue of
this pleroma, the Sophianity becomes the Presence in our world.
Our authors coined a term to express this: fatimiya, an abstract
noun which literally translated gives something like "tatimianite"
but which the term Sophianity expresses more directly still once
we have recognised in the eternal mediating person of Fatima the
Resplendent, Her who is elsewhere known as Sophia.
And the ancient Mazdean texts propose to us all the more of
the Sophianity. Of the six Archangels who surround Ohrmazd,
the God of Pure Light, from whom they emanate and whose
name itself means "Lord Wisdom" (Ahura Mazda in the Avesta),
three are masculine and three feminine. The first of these feminine
Archangels bears in the A vesta the name Spenta Armaiti (in
Pahlavi, that is in Middle Persian, Spandarmat; in Modern Per­
sian, Sfundarmoz). The texts will show us the remarkable prece­
ch•nl inhrrc•nt lttre. She is the "Daughter of Ohrmazd." She is
XV

Prelude to the Second Edition
indeed the Sophia of Mazdaism and the typification of Celestial
Earth. Spandarmat-Sophia is the "Mistress of the Dwelling." She
is the Dwelling itself, as feminine Archangel of the Earth which
is Earth of Light. Building on her name· in Pahlavi, the abstract
term spandarmatikih has been formed which we cannot translate
better than by the very term "Sophianity." 'IJtis term denotes a
certain mode of being prescribed for the Zoroastrian faithful.
There is also an appeal, a striking correspondence, between the
terms fdtimiya and spandarmati'kih, which both denote a "Sophi­
anity" typified on the one hand in the person of the feminine
Archangel holy Armaiti and on the other in that of Fatima-So­
phia. To assume this Sophianity is for the human being to accede
here and now to the Celestial Earth, to the world of HfirqalyA,
world of "celestial corporeity," which is that of the subtle Bodies
of Light. Presented thus in a few lines, the intention of the sub­
title of the book, "From Mazdean to Shi'ite Iran," will no doubt
appear to the reader in more precise contours.
Obviously, the passage from one manifestation of Sophianity to
another does not involve the material filiation of any historic
causality because here plainly both manifestations are acts of the
Malakfit which occur in the imaginal world. We prefer to speak
here of the epochs of a spiritual world rather than of constants or
of recurring factors of the Iranian consciousness. Now the succes­
sion of the epochs of a spiritual world does not consist of a history
which one can perceive and demonstrate in the way in which doc­
uments permit us to speak of the campaigns of Julius Caesar or of
Napoleon. The epochs of the spiritual world are totally different
from the epochs of the exterior world of geology or of sociopoliti­
cal history. The epochs of a spiritual world make up a history sui
generis, which is in its very essence imaginal history. We are deal­
ing here with a "history" of the same nature as that which is wit­
nessed when our Shi'ite philosophers identify their Twelfth Imam
now with the Saoshyant or Zoroastrian eschatological Saviour,
now with the Paraclete announced in St. John's Gospel. We have
already said that this history is neither myth nor history as under­
stood in current parlance, but that it does not involve any the less
a history of real events, or a reality proper to these events, a reality
11ituatrd at a lf'vel other than that of tlw t-xtrrior rvents of the rna-
XVI

Prelude to the Seco"d Edition
terial world, which esoteric hermeneutic considers as being the
metaphor of true events.
These true events together with the links which unite them one
to another come to pass in the subtle world of the Soul, the world
of Malakut, mundus imaginalis. Others have spoken of the
"Chronicle of Akasha" (this term denoting the subtle world).
What we have in view here postulates simply the term "imaginal
history." Every philosophy which loses the sense of the imaginal
world closes to itself aU access to the events of which it is the locus,
and comes to be the prey of pseudo-dilemmas.
We therefore need a vocabulary other than that of history in the
empirical sense of this word in order to deal with the "Chronicles
of Malakut," just as Boehme needed a terminology different from
that of the Peripatetic philosophers and expressed himself in the
vocabulary of alchemy. To describe the link between the two ages
respectively of Sophianity and of Celestial Earth, we have had re­
course here to a musical terminology, and we tum to the sound
effect produced on the organ by the playing of the progressio har­
monica.
Penetration into the world of Hurqalya, into the Angelic
World, thus becomes an aspect of the experience which the pro­
gressio harmonica otTers to our hearing. And as we utter these
words we again perceive certain consonances with "actuality" in
the sense in which we spoke before of the actuality of the "battle
for the soul of the world." Several important recent publications
testify to the actuality of the Angelic World for and in the work of
a number of philosophers in every age. The search for traces of
this world even involves the feelings, not only by reason of the
sarcasms which a defiant ignorance throws at it, but also because
of all that this research is in duty bound to bring back painfuUy
into the light. For it involves the whole of a forgotten tradition
(indeed, deformed and altered out of recognition), whose multi­
farious texts alone can at once nourish research and lead to a com­
plete renewal of angelology. Thus it has been our wish to present
a few of these texts here.
We do not pretend that mental habits that have been engrained
for gem•rations lessen the difficulty of access for our contemporar­
ir·!l intn thi!l world which for them is like a world long since lost.
xvii

Prelude to the Second Edition
All the more significant then has been the welcome given to a
recent study which treats the "life after life" and presents the man­
ifold testimonies of their actual experiences by people who, even
though they had not crossed it never to return, had none the less
really found themselves on the "threshold," for their deaths had
already been clinically confirmed.2 There is no reason to be sur­
prised that such a book should meet with a moving approval from
some, testifying to a nostalgia which nothing has ever succeeded
in snuffing out in the human heart. Equally there is no reason for
surprise if the same book has been received with scepticism. Cer­
tainly, many traditional texts were quoted in connection with the
testimonies reported in this book. But how many people knew
them? In fact, some of these testimonies cannot be entertained let
alone understood except on the condition of having at one's im­
mediate disposal an ontology of the mundus imaginalis and a me­
taphysic of the active Imagination as an organ inherent in the soul
and regulated in its own right to the W(\rld of "subtle corporeity."
We have made here an attempt at just this. Many more will be
needed, necessitating rigorous study and exorcising every "fan­
tasy" which could spoil the legitimacy of imaginative understand­
ing.
In this connection, we wish to give a caution. We have come to
see for ourself, with pleasure though not unmixed with some anx­
iety, that the word "imaginal" as used specifically in our re­
searches has been spreading and even gaining ground. We wish
to make the following statement. If this term is used to apply to
anything other than the mundus imaginalis and the imaginal
Forms as they are located in the schema of the worlds which ne­
cessitate them and legitimise them, there is a great danger that
the term will be degraded and its meaning be lost. By the same
token we would remind the reader that the schema in which the
imaginal world is by its essence the intermediate world, and the
articulation between the intellectual and the sensible, in which
the active Imagination as imaginatio vera is an organ of under­
standing mediating between intellect and sense and as legitimate
as these latter and that world itself. If one transfers its usage out­
side this precisely defined schema one sets out on a false trail and
strays far from the intention which our Iranian phiiO!iOphers have
XVIII

Prelude to the Second Edition
induced us to restore in our use of this word. It is superfluous to
add-the reader will already have understood this-that the mun­
dus imaginalis has nothing to do with what the fashion of our time
calls ''the civilisation of the image."
We concede that access to the world of Hurqalya, to the An­
gelic World, undoubtedly continues to be difficult. More than
once since the publication of the first edition we have heard read­
ers regretting the special difficulty of the first chapter-that on
the angelology of the Avesta. We would like to suggest here­
and this could apply to the whole of the book-that a single read­
ing cannot be sufficient.
One does not penetrate into the Angelic World by housebreak­
ing, one does not move around mentally in the world of HOrqalya
by the assistance of a formal logic or of a dialectic which leads
from one concept to the next by deduction. Passage from one ima­
ginal Form to another does not obey any conceptual dialectic. The
figures of the God-Angels of the Avesta, for example, overlapping
one with another as they often do, can only be grasped by gener­
ating in oneself, on the indications of the texts, a minimum of
menial vision. What then does this involve? One should resort
here to the exemplary practice which Ibn 'Arabi himself has led
us to design as the ''theophanic method of discourse" (oraison).
It could be that this itself is nothing other than a form or an
appeal of the progressio harmonica. But is it not frequent in the
Bible for the Prophets to demand the assistance of a harp-player
in order to open the eyes of their inner vision?
Translated by Peter Russell
Notes
I. Zaqqum. Quran, xvii,60; xxxvii,62-68; xliv,43-46; lvi,52.(N. orTr.)
2. Dr. Raymond Moody, Life after Life, London, Corgi, 1977.
XIX

PROLOGUE
It may be that the world which our authors here describe in
symbolic language as the "eighth climate" will be seen by West­
ern people as the "lost continent." Should some of them be search­
ing for it, the Spiritual Masters whom the present book seeks to
interpret will perhaps serve as their guides.
The spatial distances between humans are being more and
more reduced in our day, at least if measured in terms of time;
concurrently we hear talk of an "acceleration of history." On
the other hand, the real universes-those by which and for
which men live and die, which can never be reduced to empirical
data because their secret reality exists before all our projects and
predetermines them-those universes, it would seem, have never
been so far from being able to communicate with each other,
from being penetrable by one another. It may be that the first
and last reason for this impenetrability is to be sought in the loss
of the interworld, in the vanished consciousness of this assembly
of universes which our authors call the "world of Hnrqalya.."
How does the cultured man of today represent to himself the
spirituality of Islam? What picture can he form of the spiritual
world of Iran on the two poles of which, before and after Islam,
we will try here to apply our attention? People are generally
absorbed in political or sociological considerations and lose sight
of the essential. We ask questions without even ascertaining
what meaning, if any, they have for the man addressed and, for
the same reason, the sense or non-sense of his answers for our­
selves.
It is a great and formidable adventure to be the guest of a
culture to the point of communicating in its language and par­
ticipating in its problems. But he who remains on the shore will
never foretaste the secrets of the high seas. How can he know,
for example, what it might be to read the Qur'An as a Bible (like
that Bible from which the Qur'a.n partially stems) unless, like
those whose Bible it is, he perceives the spiritual meaning that
XXI

Prologue
they perceive in it, and as they perceive it in the traditions which
unfold it. But how can we keep company with the ŀofls and
Spiritual Masters of Islam if we ourselves have forgotten the
language of symbols, if we are blind and deaf to the spiritual
meaning of the ancient writings, while, on the other hand, we
take such pride in showing how favorably they compare with
other historical or archeological documents?
Among other symptoms indicative of a "lost continent," we
should note the unusual insistence with which certain contem­
porary theologians have taken the "immortality of the soul" as
opposed to the "resurrection of the dead," as though it were a
great triumph to abandon the philosophers, the impenitent Pla­
tonists, to their vain pretensions, while they themselves, as per­
fect realists, stand ready to condone the concessions necessary in
order to "keep up with the times." For in truth there has been
a great destruction of hopes in the West, and there is no telling
where this will end. Its most alarming symptom is the pious
agnosticism that is paralyzing excellent minds and inspiring in
them a panic terror before everything with the suspect aroma of
"gnosis."
Let us be clear about one thing: the dilemma we have just
mentioned is utterly and justifiably foreign to the thoughts and
the thinkers assembled here in this book. There is no question of
"demonstrating" something such as the immortality of the soul
or resurrection of the dead, and above all not to someone who is
denying them or rejecting the idea. If it is true that rational
demonstration fails to support either the thesis or the antithesis,
it is for a fundamental reason that emerges from our_texts them­
selves. Neither the rejection nor the hope that challenges it is
a matter of theoretical proof. It has to do with the judgment
which each one bears in himself of himself and thanks to which
he takes on the entire responsibility for himself. This is why it
would be ineffective to try to impose immortality or resurrection
on anyone who does not want it-the more so in that there could
be no "resurrection of bodies" without a "resurrection of souls,"
that is, without having overcome the peril of the "second death,"
so clearly discerned by the most ancient Hermetism, and which
X XII

Prologue
postulates the "descent to Hell." For it is from the soul itself,
from the celestial Earth of the soul, that the "spiritual flesh" is
constituted-the suprasensory and at the same time perfectly
concrete caro spiritualis. A "dead soul," in the sense that a soul
can die, could not be its substance. This connection will be the
central thought of the texts and of the authors studied in this
book.
.
These texts together form a progression from one octave to
the other of the Iranian spiritual universe, repeating and ampli­
fying the same theme. Here exactly lay the difficulty of the task
to which we felt called, because, until now, very little has been
written in an attempt to open up a view of the unity of this
universe and to show how its component parts are connected.
First of all, we had to outline a phenomenology of Mazdean
consciousness or, more exactly, of Mazdean angelology, with the
personal Figures and archetypes that are its hierophanies. Then,
by means of the theme studied here, we had to clear the way
leading from Mazdean Iran to Islamic Iran.
Finally, in the second part of the book, in allowing certain
authors, whose names and works have remained until now al­
most totally unknown in the West, to speak for themselves, our
intention was to show how certain problems could be shared and
a common terminology established. Without such participation,
we could not hope for much even from exchanges undertaken
with the best will in the world. The pages that have been trans­
lated here, both from Persian and Arabic, are extracts from
eleven authors, who together cover the period from the twelfth
century up to the present day. Their names are well known in
Iran, but what can be said for our knowledge of man, of homo
sapiens, so long as we know nothing of the invisible regions that
have been explored nor of the explorers themselves?
Normally, the work of "diffusion" would be preceded by a
preliminary study of the material, but unfortunately, in view of
the rarity of works in this field, the philosopher-orientalist will in
fact be bound for some time to come to take these two tasks on
him11elf. That is why it is impossible to construct an investiga­
tion of thi11 nnture without furni11hing whnt are commonly called
""iii

Prologue
"notes" and which are, in fact, the commentaries without which
the whole structure would remain hanging in the air. Neverthe­
less, we wished to write a book that would be of general interest
-that is, to the prepared seeker, who will find in it many
themes to study in depth, as well as to him who in eighteenth­
century France was called the "honn@te homme," the open­
minded man to whom the scholar owes consideration, the more
so in that his kind is perhaps doomed, owing to contemporary
conditions, to disappear.
In what follows there will be a constant recurrence of certain
terms that to one reader or another will be a source of irritation;
they may be assured that their irritation is shared. However,
this irritation has no longer any foundation if we take the terms
in question with the genuine simplicity of the texts from which
they are translated. The word "theosophy," for example, is a
translation of the Arabic Mkma ilahiya and the Persian khuda­
dani, which themselves are the exact equivalent of the Greek
theosophia. The terms "esotericism" and "initiation" do not
imply any exclusive claim to teach by some self-instituted author­
ity. They refer, respectively, to hidden, suprasensory things, to
the discretion which the words themselves suggest in regard to
those who, not understanding, scorn them, and to the spiritual
birth that causes the perception of those hidden things to open.
These terms may have been abused, but we shall be reminded
of their rightful use in the context of what follows.
As for the word "ImAm," meaning "spiritual guide," this word
dominates the form of Islam which will especially concern us
here, namely, Shrism (also called Imamism ) and, above all,
Shl'ite Iran. If it is already true to say that cultivated people in
the West usually have only an approximate idea of Islamic
theology in general, when it comes to Shrism, it is to be feared
that we are speaking of te"a incognita. Some pages in the
present book ( Ch. II, § 1 ) , as well as the translated texts, may
suggest what constitutes its essence. But we could not include
here an outline of the history of Shrism or explain how and why
it became the form of Iranian Islam.
XXIV

Prologue
Actually, Iranian Islam belies the opinion according to which
Islam is too often identified with an ethnic concept, with the past
history of a race. Islam is primarily a religious concept. For
centuries, and from his youth up, the Iranian has known his
national epic poem contained in the "Book of Kings" by FirdawsJ.
He is aware that there were great kings and even a prophet,
Zarathustra-Zoroaster, before Islam. Yet the Shl'ite lmlimology
professed by Iran represents the supreme homage that can be
paid to the Arabic Prophet and to the members of his Household.
The question is one neither of race nor of nation but of religious
vision. Again, that is why we would have liked to stress (but can­
not do so here ) how the relationship between Shl'ism and the
principal phenomenon of spiritual Islam, known under the name
of ŀO.fism, is regarded in Iran. In any case, suffice it to say that
the conditions of the dialogue between Christianity and Islam
change completely as soon as the interlocutor represents not
legalistic Islam but this spiritual Islam, whether it be that of
ŀO.fism or of Shrite gnosis.
Even so, the difficulties of approach remain considerable. A
Westerner usually takes the terms muslim and mu'min as synon­
ymous. They are, however, by no means synonymous for a
Shl'ite: one can be a muslim and profess Islam without yet (nor
for that reason alone ) being a mu'min, that is, a true believer, an
adept of the holy ImAms and their doctrine. On his side, the
mu'min will find it hard to understand immediately the reasons
for and import of religious terminology current in the West,
where we speak, for example, of the "difficulties of belief"­
using the phrase, almost always, with a confessional connota­
tion. This is because the "difficulties" in question depend oil
a certain concept of philosophy and theology that has accrued
during several centuries and, ultimately, on an opposition that
is not experienced at all in a milieu where such terms as •arif
and •irfiin are in current use. The latter can be translated re­
spectively as "mystical theosophy" and "mystical gnosis," but
theHe technical equivalents do not exactly preserve the familiar
Hhndc৔ of meuning in Arabic of these words, which connote a
XXV

Prologue
specific type of spiritual knowledge. But does not the very fact
that we have no adequate terminology reveal that we are deal­
ing with something which, for us, is not current?
And this, among other things, is what motivates the use of
the term "esotericism" because, in this perspective, the polemics
between Western believers and unbelievers are seen to have
taken place on a plane of knowledge above which neither side
was able to rise. For example, there have been arguments about
the miracles described in the New Testament. One side acknowl­
edges, the other rejects the possibility of a "breach of natural
laws." Belief and unbelief become locked in the dilemma-his­
tory or myth? The only way out is to realize that the first and
greatest miracle is the irruption of another world into our
knowledge, an irruption that rends the fabric of our categories
and their necessities, of our evidences and their norms. But it
should be understood that the other world in question is one that
cannot be perceived by the organ of ordinary knowledge; that it
can be neither proven nor disputed by means of ordinary argu­
mentation; that it is a world so different that it can neither be
seen nor perceived except by the organ of "HnrqalyAn" per­
ception.
This other world, with the mode of knowledge it implies, is
the one which, as we shall see, has been meditated upon
tirelessly throughout the centuries as the "world of Hnrqalya."
It is the "Earth of visions," the Earth which confers on visionary
apperceptions their truth, the world through which resurrection
comes to pass. This is what will be re-echoed by all our authors.
Indeed, this is the world in which real spiritual events "take
place," real, however, not in the sense that the physical world is
real, nor yet in the sense that events chronologically recorded to
"make history" are real, because here the event transcends every
historical materialization.
It is an "external world," and yet it is not the physical world.
It is a world that teaches us that it is possible to emerge from
measurable space without emerging from extent, and that we
must abandon homogeneous chronological time in order to enter
that qualitative time which is the history of the soul. Finally, it
XXVI

Prologue
is the world in which we perceive the spiritual sense of the writ­
ten word and of beings--that is, their suprasensory dimension,
that meaning which most often seems to us an arbitrary extrapo­
lation, because we confuse it with allegory. We cannot penetrate
the "Earth of Ho.rqalyA" by rational abstraction nor yet by em­
pirical materialization; it is the place where spirit and body are
one, the place where spirit, taking on a body, becomes the caro
spiritualis, "spiritual corporeity." Everything suggested here by
our authors goes, perhaps, very much against the current of
contemporary thinking and may well be entirely misunderstood.
We might find their brothers in soul, however, among those who
have been called the Protestant Spirituales, such as Schwenck­
feld, Boehme, the Berleburg circle, Oetinger, and others, whose
line has been continued to the present day.
But there is a further point to make clear: it was not our
intention here, in studying the two complementary aspects, Maz­
dean Iran and Shrite Iran (more exactly, up to the Shaikhl
school ) , to treat this theme from a historical point of view. We
shall do no more here than indicate it as a possibility, since we
hope later to make it the subject of the fuller study it calls for.
If we try to consider what is suggested to us in the following
extracts in the light of our accustomed historical dimension, we
shali, with the best intentions in the world, be bound to falsify
the perspective. For our historical, evolutionary, and linear
viewpoint is the result of a one-dimensional mental structure,
which serves for determining causes inherent in this level alone,
which explains things by reducing them all to this same level; it
is limited to a homogeneous time and space in which it places
events.
Our authors see things from a different point of view. They
postulate several planes of projection. The passage of time is
viewed as a cycle; beings and events themselves qualitatively
situate their time and space. This being so, we should pay par­
ticular attention to structures and homologies of structure; what
has to emerge is the law of their isomorphism. In comparison,
discussions conducted on the level of pure historicism are almost
always irritating and sterile, for invariably one comes up against
xxvii

Prologue
a possible "counterexplanation." For example, the question is
sometimes raised as to whether Shrism is or is not an Iranian
phenomenon. There is in any case a Shrism with a specifically
Iranian structure. We are not concerned to label objects in a
showcase or to identify photographs, but to search for a mode
of understanding that we have described as a progressio har­
monica. Any musician, any Gestaltist, will immediately grasp
what we mean.
For example, in Mazdaism there is the var of Yima, the "hy­
perborean paradise," and in ŀiifism and Shrism there is the Earth
of Hnrqalyli, also in the celestial "Far North." In Mazdaism
there are traces of a mystical physiology and the same, vastly
amplified, in Shaikhism. Both in Mazdaism and in Suhrawardr's
theosophy there are Angels of the Earth, Spenta Armaiti and
Daenli, Figures respectively representing the eternal Sophia; in
Shl'ite gnosis we find FAtima, person of Light, Daughter of the
Prophet, who is also a Figure representing Sophia and the supra­
celestial Earth. In Mazdaism there is the Saoshyant, or Savior­
t<><ome, surrounded by his companions, while in Shrism there is
the hidden lmlim, surrounded by a mystical body of knights,
whose parousia will herald the completion of our Aeon. This se­
quence of themes is already an outline of the curve described by
the present book. However, this should not be taken to mean that
the one version and the other are purely and simply identical.
The terms are not identical, but there is an analogy of relation­
ships. Because the Figures exemplify the same archetypes, their
identity lies in the function they assume in the midst of homolo­
gous wholes.
To pass from one octave to a higher octave is not the same
as to pass from one date in time to another, but is a progression
to a height or pitch that is qualitatively different. All the ele­
ments are changed, yet the form of the melody is the same.
Something in the nature of harmonic perception is needed in or­
der to perceive a world of many dimensions.
A philosopher, to whom we were explaining the concept and
function of the world of HurqalyA according to our authors,
remarked: "Finally, then, all phenomenology of the spirit takes
xxviii

Prologue
place in Ht1rqalya?" It seems certainly that it must be something
like that. But we should still add one more remark: as a rule,
when discussing past events, we fix them in the dimension of the
past and are unable to agree on their nature or their significance.
Our authors suggest that if the past were really what we believe
it to be, that is, completed and closed, it would not be the grounds
of such vehement discussions. They suggest that all our acts of
understanding are so many recommencements, re-iterations of
events still unconcluded. Each one of us, willy-nilly, is the
initiator of events in "Hnrqalya," whether they abort in its hell
or bear fruit in its paradise. While we believe that we are
looking at what is past and unchangeable, we are in fact con­
summating our own future. Our authors will show us how a
whole region in Ht1rqalya is peopled, post mortem, by our im­
peratives and wishes-that is to say, by that which directs our
acts of understanding as well as our behavior. It follows that the
whole of the underlying metaphysics is that of an unceasing re­
currence of the Creation ( tajaddud ) ; not a metaphysics of the
ens and the esse, but of the esto, of being in the imperative. But
the event is put, or put again, in the imperative only because
it is itself the iterative form of being by which it is raised to the
reality of an event. Perhaps, then, we shall glimpse the full grav­
ity of a spiritual event and of the spiritual sense of events "per­
ceived in Ht1rqalya," when at last consciousness rediscovers the
Giver of what is given. Everything is strange, say our authors,
when one sets foot on that Earth where the Impossible is in fact
accomplished. For all our mental constructions, all our impera­
tives, all our wishes, even the love which is the most consubstan­
tial with our being-all that would be nothing but metaphor
without the interworld of Hnrqalya, the world in which our
symbols are, so to speak, taken literally.
March 1960
XXIX

Publisher's Note
The system of transliteration in this volume conforms to the
style of the Library of Congress catalogue, and differs from that
used in the other two volumes by Henry Corbin published in this
series.
XXX

NOTE ON ILLUSTRATIONS
The design of the Frontispiece is reproduced from a silk textile
in the collection of the Cleveland Museum of Art, purchased
from the J. H. Wade Fund. It also appears in a book by
Gaston Wiet entitled SoǓeries persanes (Memoires de I'Institut
d'Egypte, Vol. 52, Cairo, 1947, Pl. XI and pp. 55-63 ) .  The
original figure on silk was discovered in 1925, together with
many other extraordinary pieces, when certain graves acciden­
tally came to light in the hills adjoining the sanctuary of Shahr­
Baml, not far from Ray (the Rhages of the Book of Tobias ) ,  a
few miles to the south of Teheran.
It can be inferred from the place of the discovery that this
was a precious material offered by friends or relatives for wrap­
ping the body of a deceased person ( cf. lssa Behnam, in Revue
de Ia Faculte des Lettres de l'Universite de Teheran, October
1956 ) .  It is said to date from the fifth century (eleventh century
c.E. ) and was found in a state of perfect preservation. Icono­
graphically, it is interesting as a motif in the SasAnid style on
material dating from the great Islamic period. The site of the
discovery makes it even more interesting, for, according to
Iranian tradition, the princess Shahr-Bano, daughter of the last
SAsll.nid ruler, Yazdgard III, became the wife of I:Iusayn ibn
'Air, the Third ImAm of the Shrites, and here we find an expres­
sion, iconographic and topographic, of this union of Mazdean
Iran and Shrite Iran.
Beyond doubt the design represents the theme of the ascent to
Heaven: a youth, with a royal head of hair as a halo, is carried
off into space by a great, fantastic bird that holds him enclosed
in its breast. Certain stylized details suggest that this bird be
identified, not merely as a two-headed eagle, but as the 'anqii'
(the phoenix ) or slmurgh which, already in the Avesta as in the
hiter Persian mystical epics, assumes so many symbolic func­
tion!!, even becoming the emblem of the Holy Spirit. It would be
utele!l!l to multiply examples based on outer analogies (which
XXXI

Note on Illustrations
would lead us far afield, even to the abduction of Ganymede, for
instance ) . But it is of direct interest to draw attention to an
episode in the heroic epic of Iran, namely, the abduction of Zlll,
son of Slim, who was nurtured and reared by the bird SJmurgh.
SuhrawardJ developed at great length in one of his mystical
romances the spiritual meaning of this episode. And in this sense
it comes finally into full accord with the /:ladith which, without
further reference, can best lead us to meditation on the symbol­
ism of this image. The /:ladith in question alludes to the green
Bird whose breast offers shelter, in the other world, to the spirits
of the "witnesses of truth." As interpreted by Simnani, one of the
Iranian _nfi masters, this is an allusion to the formation and the
birth of the "resurrection body." Thus the hieratic movement of
being taken up to Heaven, which the Iranian artist has repre­
sented here, reveals the meaning of what Wiet so rightly calls
its "triumphant gravity."
We should not omit pointing out that exactly the same motif,
with all the features justifying reference to the /:ladith interpreted
by Simnllni, figures among the paintings adorning the ceiling of
the Palatine chapel at Palermo (cf. Ugo Monneret de Villard,
Le Pitture musulmane al soffito della Cappella Palatina in Pa­
lermo, pp. 47-48 and figs. 52-55, 245 ) .  Whether or not the
Palermo painters came from Fllpmid Egypt, it is known that
they were inspired by themes originating for the most part in
Iran, and often, as in the present case, did no more than repro­
duce them.
The plate facing page 32 is from a Persian anthology, a manu­
script dated Shiraz A.D. 1398 in the TUrk ve Islam Mtizesi, Is­
tanbul, and is reproduced from Basil Gray, Persian Painting
(Geneva: Skira, 1956 ) by permission of the publisher. It is
discussed on p. 3 1.
X X XII

I THE MAZDEAN IMAGO TERRAE
1 .  "The Earth Is an Anger'
In a book entitled On the Question of the Soul, G. T. Fechner
tells how on a spring morning, while a transfiguring light cast a
halo over the face of the earth, he was struck not merely by the
esthetic idea, but by the vision and concrete evidence that "the
Earth is an Angel, such a gorgeously real Angel, so like a flower!"
But, he added with melancholy, nowadays an experience like
this is dismissed as imaginary. It is taken for granted that the
earth is a spherical body; as for getting to know more about what
it is, this is just a matter of research in the mineralogical
collections.1
This brief lyrical confession prompts us to reflect on two
points. In the first place, we have to remember that Fechner
himself wrote a Zend-Avesta, which is his most important philo­
sophical work; in it he displays throughout the resources of
analogical reasoning, counter perhaps to the demands of strict
philosophy, but manifesting in this way his aptitude for perceiv­
ing symbols. Although the book, with the exception of its title,
has nothing in common with the sacred book of Zoroastrian
Mazdaism, it is nevertheless a fact that the cognitio matutina by
which the Earth is revealed to our philosopher as an "Angel'' is
completely in accord with the doctrine and practice of the Avesta,
iq which, for example, we read the following (in the ritual of
the twenty-eighth day of the month ) : "We are celebrating this
liturgy in honor of the Earth which is an Angel."2
There remains, of course, a certain lack of precision in Fech-

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
ner's vision. He seems to have identified the face of the earth,
haloed by the spring light, with the actual effigy of the Angel,
when in fact the telluric glory is the liturgical creation, the
hierurgy of that Earth Angel whose features are perceived as a
glorified human image. But such exact perception presupposes
the perfect exercise of this faculty, the degradation and neglect
of which is exactly what Fechner deplores. And this is the second
point to remember. The fact that the perception of the Earth as
an Angel can be classed as imaginary, as unreal, signifies and
indicates that this way of perceiving and meditating the Earth is,
on the contrary, linked with a psycho-spiritual structure which
we have to rediscover in order to bring out the value of the
means of knowledge it offers.
Essentially this mode of perception implies an intellectual fac­
ulty that is not limited to the sole use of conceptual abstraction
nor to the sensory perception of physical data. That is why
Fechner's avowal, to the very extent that it is a valid reminder
of the Mazdean angelology, calls on us to link together two
equally inseparable questions: that of the Mazdean perception
of the Earth, as it arises in the perspective of an angelology, and
correlatively, that of the mode of apprehension of beings and
things which it presupposes and which differs entirely from the
only one acknowledged by our positive science and, incidentally,
by our geography.
To come face to face with the Earth not as a conglomeration
of physical facts but in the person of its Angel is an essentially
psychic event which can "take place" neither in the world of im­
personal abstract concepts nor on the plane of mere sensory data.
The Earth has to be perceived not by the senses, but through
a primordial Image and, inasmuch as this Image carries the
features of a personal figure, it will prove to "symbolize with"
the very Image of itself which the soul carries in its innermost
depths. The perception of the Earth Angel will come about in an
intermediate universe which is neither that of the Essences of
philosophy nor that of the sensory data on which the work of
positive science is based, but which is a universe of archetype­
Images, experienced as so many personal presences. In recap-

§ 1 .  "The Earth Is an Anger'
turing the intentions on which the constitution of this universe
depend, in which the Earth is represented, meditated, and en­
countered in the person of its Angel, we discover that it is much
less a matter of answering questions concerning essences ("what
is it?" ) than questions concerning person৕ ("who is it?" or "to
whom does it correspond?") ,  for example, who is the Earth?
who are the waters, the plants, the mountains? or, to whom do
they corre৖pond? The answer to these questions causes an Image
to appear and this Image invariably corresponds to the presence
of a certain state. This is why we have to recapture here the
phenomenon of the Earth as an angelophany or mental apparition
of its Angel in the fundamental angelology of Mazdaism as a
whole, in that which gives its cosmology and its physics a struc­
ture such that they include an answer to the question, "who?"
To forestall any misunderstanding and make clear the full
significance of the term angelology, which we require in order
to think the Mazdean hierophany of the Earth, we have also to
remember this. Angelology is one of the characteristic features
of Zoroastrian Mazdaism, for which reason it can neither be
reduced to an abstract and monolithic type of monotheism, nor
invalidated by what people have tried to interpret as a return to
the "ancient gods," or a restoration of pre-Zoroastrian polytheism.
A spiritual morphology, the aim of which is to restore and to
valorize effectively lived devotion, demands that we comprehend
the canonical Avesta as a whole, or at least that part of it which
has reached us, namely, the ritual which preserves in its center
the Psalms ( Giithiis ) of Zarathustra, and is completed -by the
commentaries and traditions in middle Iranian ( Pahlavi ) and in
Persian. Here again, when the believer is reciting his Bible or
when the liturgy is being celebrated, the objections justified by
historical stratifications would appear to be wide of the mark.
In always wanting to know "where" things "come from" one wan­
ders nbout finally in vain pursuit of a succession of hypotheses.
· If, on the other hand, we ask ourselves, "to what does this
lr.nd1'" thr. Houl , on being questioned, can at least give us irrefu­
tnhlr. r.vidr.nt4c of what it wished. The soul cannot be explained;
it IN thr. Ncml itNrlf which iH the principle of every explanation

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
and the key to it. This is why, for many centuries, Mazdean
piety has recognized the equivalent of its Y azatas (the "Ador­
able Ones") in the figures of Angels and Archangels (firishtagan
in Persian). Of course, their ontological status is quite different
from that of the biblical or Qur•nnic angels; they are neither
servants nor messengers, but rather figures homologous to the
Dii-Angeli of Proclus. On this point I am convinced that Nco­
platonism (which it has long been fashionable to disparage ) was
infinitely closer to Iranian angelology, and to a better understand­
ing of the theurgical and demiurgical role of its heavenly en­
tities than the philsophical improvisations in which religious
historians are apt to indulge when they are short of categories.
We have an exact tradition to follow if we wish to. understand,
for example, what the Angels of the Earth proclaim to Mazdean
piety.
Here it is absolutely necessary that we recall the general
schema of Mazdean cosmology, that is, the general schema that
is the structure of the heavenly pleroma of light. Unfortunately,
we can only restate it here in broad outline. The Mazdean vision
divides thinkable totality into an infinite height of Light in which
there dwells, for all eternity, Ohrmazd (the Avestan Ahura
Mazda) ,  the "Lord Wisdom"; and an unfathomable abyss of
Darkness that conceals the Antagonist, the Counterpower of
negation, disintegration, and death, Ahriman (the Avestan
Angra Mainyu ) . Between the Power of Light and the Counter­
power of Darkness there is no common ground, no compromise
. of coexistence, but a merciless battle of which our Earth, together
with all visible Creation, is the field, until the consummation of
the Aeon, the apokatastasis or "restoration" which will put an
end to the mixture ( gumechishn ) by the separation ( tJicharishn )
that will cast the demonic Counterpowers back into their abyss.
To be sure, this view of things is by no means the childish
concept to which, as we frequently see nowadays, certain writers,
pressed for time or ill-informed, reduce something they believe
to be now Mazdaism, now Manicheism, describing it as incom­
plete and rudimentary. This view has nothing at all to do with
professing that the beings who surround UR nrt: c௨ither "white"

§ 1 .  "The Earth Is an Anger'
or "black." The state in which we live is precisely one of "mix­
ture." What is in question is a certain way of understanding this
"mixture" and a way of being toward it, which differs profoundly
from that which is inspired in us by our ready-made and rarely
challenged judgments.
Now, it is a characteristic feature of the Zoroastrian view
that the Lord Wisdom should always appear surrounded by six
Powers of Light with which he himself (as the first, or as the
seventh ) forms the supreme divine Heptad. On the pretext that
what is in question is a so-called "primitive" thought, there have
been occasional attempts to reduce these Powers to "aspects" of
the supreme divinity, without taking into account that such a
modalism would, on the contrary, imply highly developed theo­
logical speculation, and that in any case the impulse of piety
has nothing to do with these subtle abstractions and distinctions,
but is directed toward heavenly Persons, the fascination of whose
beauty has been experienced and whose power has been acknowl­
edged as effective. These are the Seven Powers who are desig­
nated as the Amahraspands (the Avestan Amerta Spenta ) ,  a
name that is currently translated as "the Holy Immortals"; their
holiness is understood not as a canonical attribute, but as a
transitive, active, and activating Energy that communicates be­
ing, establishes it, and causes it to superabound in all beings. 3
These are the Seven Powers who are also generally designated
as the Zoroastrian Archangels.
Yasht XIX of the Avesta (that is, one of the liturgical hymns
with a characteristic antiphonal structure ) describes in won­
drous ternis their splendor and the mystery of their relationship.
The hymn celebrates these Archangels, "all Seven of whom have
the same thought, the same word, the same action . . . they see
each others' souls engaged in meditating thoughts of righteous­
ness, in meditating words of righteousness, in meditating actions
of righteousness, in meditating the Abode of Hymns,' and they
ha've paths of light by which to travel to the liturgies [celebrated
in their honor] . . . who created and govern the creatures of
Ahura Mazda, who formed them and direct them, who are their
protccton nnd their liberntors."R

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
So there is, among the Seven Archangels, a sort of unio mys­
tica, which makes the divine Heptad as different from the current
ways of describing monotheism as from those referring to poly­
theism; we would do better to speak of a kathenotheism, in the
sense that each of the Figures of the Heptad can be meditated in
turn as actualizing the totality of the relations common to the
others. In the texts we can follow a certain oscillation which
sometimes enhances the primacy of the Lord Wisdom among
the Seven, and sometimes stresses his unio mystica with the (six)
other Powers of Light. 0 Thus, in the Pahlavi texts, the frequency
with which Ohrmazd, initiating Zarathustra his prophet, refers
to: "We, the Archangels"7 corresponds, in the Avesta itself, to
the use of the word Mazda in the plural, "the Lords Wisdom,"8
to designate the Amahraspands as a whole. In comparison, we
can recall how, in Philo, the Logos-if not God Himself-is
called by the name of Archangel, because he is "Apxov 'Ayyi>.ruv. 9
Traditionally, in mental iconography, as also no doubt in real
iconography, 10 the divine Heptad is figured as divided into two
groups: three Archangels represented as masculine on the right
of Ohrmazd, three feminine Archangels on his left. Ohrmazd
himself reunites their twofold nature, since it is said of him that
he was at one and the same time the father and the mother of
Creation.11 All the Seven together produced created beings by a
liturgical act, that is, by celebrating the heavenly Liturgy.12
Each of the Seven Powers of Light, by virtue of the Energy that
overflows from its being, brings forth the fraction of the beings
that in the totality of creation represents its personal hierurgy,
and which for this reason can be designated by its own name.
As his own hierurgy, as the object of his creative and provident
activity, Ohrmazd has taken the human being, or more precisely
that part of humanity that has chosen to respond on earth for the
beings of Light.13 Of the three masculine Archangels: Vohu
Manah (excellent thought, Vohuman in Pahlavi, Bahman in
Persian ) has undertaken the protection of the whole animal crea­
tion; Arta Vahishta (perfect existence, Artvahisht, Urdlbihisht ) ,
the government of Fire in all its different manifestations;
Xshathra V airya (desirable reign, Shathrlvar, Shahrlvar ) ,  the

§1. "The Earth Is an Anger'
government of the metals. As for the three feminine Archangels:
Spenta Armaiti (Spendarmat, Isfandilrmuz) has as her own
hierurgy the Earth as a form of existence whose Image is Wis­
dom, and woman regarded as a being of light; to Haarvatat
(integrity, Khurdild) belong the Waters, the aquatic world in
general; to Amertcit (immortality, MurdAd) belong the plants,
the entire vegetable kingdom. These are the hierurgical relations
that indicate to human beings precisely where and how to meet
the invisible Powers of Light, that is, by cooperating with them
for the salvation of the creatural region which is dependent on
their particular providence.u
In this work the supreme Archangels are helped in the first
place by the many Yazatas ( lzad in Persian, literally the "Ador­
able Ones," who are the objects of a liturgy, a Y aana ) ; these
are the Angels proper to Mazdaism, and the notion of their
cooperation with the Amahraspands suggests a striking con­
vergence with the angelology of Neoplatonism.u Among them
is ZamyAt, the feminine Angel of the Earth, as Dea Te"estris
and telluric Glory, who cooperates with the Archangel Amertilt.
Some people have regarded her as a mere doublet of Spenta
Armaiti; in the end we shall see that their functions and their
persons are distinct.18 Moreover, all the Celestials are Y azatas,
including Ohrmazd and the Amahraspands, although all the
Yazatas are not Amahraspands, with respect to whom they
form a kind of subordinate hierarchy. Finally, there are the
countless multitude of feminine celestial entities called Fravarti
(literally, "those who have chosen," meaning those who have
chosen to fight in order to come to the help of Ohrmazd) ;17 who
are at one and the same time the heavenly archetypes of beings
and their respective tutelary angels; metaphysically they are
no less necessary than the Yazatas, since without their help
Ohrmazd could not have defended his creation against the de­
structive invasion of the demonic Powers.18 They presuppose a
universal structure of being and of beings according to Mazdean
ontology. Every physical or moral entity, every complete being
or group of beings belonging to the world of Light, including
Ohnnnzd, the Amahraspands, and the Jzads, has its Fravarti.18
f)

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
What they announce to earthly beings is, therefore, an essen­
tially dual structure that gives to each one a heavenly archetype
or Angel, whose earthly counterpart he is.20 In this sense, there
is a dualitude even more essential to Mazdean cosmology than is
the dualism of Light-Darkness, which is its most commonly re­
membered aspect; this dualism merely expresses the dramatic
phase undergone by the Creation of Light when invaded and
blemished by the demonic Powers, and is a dualism which inter­
prets this negativity without compromise, without reducing the
evil to a privatio boni. As for the essential dualitude, it conjoins
one being of light with another being of light; but never can a
being of light be complemented by a being of darkness, were it
its own shadow: the property of bodies of light on the trans­
figured Earth is precisely not to "cast a shadow" and in the
pleroma it is always "midday."21
This dual structure establishes a personal relationship that
parallels that other basic relationship expressed in Mazdean
cosmology by the distinction between the meniJk state and the
getik state of beings. This distinction is not exactly between the
intelligible and the sensory, nor simply between the incorporeal
and the corporeal (for the Celestial Powers have very subtle
bodies of light) ;22 the distinction is rather a matter of the rela­
tionship between the invisible and the visible, the subtle and the
dense, the heavenly and the earthly, provided it is clearly under­
stood that the getik state (earthly, material ) in itself by no means
implies a degradation of being, but that it was itself, before the
Ahrimanian invasion, as it will be thereafter, a glorious state of
light, peace, and incorruptibility. Every being can be thought of
in its menok state, as well as in its getik state (for example, in
its heavenly state, the earth is called zam; in its empirical, mate­
rial, ponderable state it is called zamik, or zamin in Persian ) .23
Here precisely we arrive at that particular mode of perception
of beings and things which, by reaching the possibility of under­
standing no longer simply what they are, but who they are, will
allow us to meet them in the person of their Angel. It is quite
evident that the mental vision of the Angel of the Earth, for
example, is not a sensory experience. If, by logknl habit, we

§ 1. "The Earth Is an Anger'
classify this fact as imaginary, the question nonetheless remains
as to what can justify an identification of what is imaginary with
what is arbitrary and unreal, the question as to whether repre­
sentations deriving from physical perception are the only ones
to be considered as real knowledge, whether physically verifiable
events alone can be evaluated as facts. We must ask ourselves
whether the invisible action of forces that have their purely
physical expression in natural processes may not bring into play
psychic energies that have been neglected or paralyzed by our
habits, and directly touch an Imagination which, far from being
arbitrary invention, corresponds to that Imagination which the
alchemists called Imaginatio vera and which is the astrum in
homine.u
The active Imagination thus induced will not produce some
arbitrary, even lyrical, construction standing between us and
"reality," but will, on the contrary, function directly as a faculty
and organ of knowledge just as real as-if not more real than­
the sense organs. However, it will perceive in the manner proper
to it: The organ is not a sensory faculty but an archetype-Image
that it possessed from the beginning; it is not something derived
from any outer perception. And the property of this Image will
be precisely that of effecting the transmutation of sensory data,
their resolution into the purity of the subtle world, in order to
restore them as symbols to be deciphered, the "key" being im­
printed in the soul itself. Such perception through the Imagina­
tion is therefore equivalent to a "dematerialization"; it changes
the physical datum impressed upon the senses in a pure mirror,
a spiritual transparency; thus it is that the Earth, and the things
and beings of the Earth, raised to incandescence, allow the ap­
parition of their Angels to penetrate to the visionary intuition.
This being so, the authenticity of the Event and its full reality
consist essentially of this visionary act and of the apparition
vouchsafed by it. And this is the profound meaning of what, in
the history of dogma, is called docetism, concerning which the
same errors have been tirelessly and monotonously repeated.
Thus is constituted this intermediary world, a world of arche­
typal celetttial Figures which the active Imagination alone is able
I I

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
to apprehend. This Imagination does not construct something
unreal, but unveils the hidden reality; its action is, in short, that
of the ta'wil, the spiritual exegesis practised by all the Spirituals
of Islam, whose special quality is that of alchemical meditation:
to occultate the apparent, to manifest the hidden.26 It is in this
intermediary world that those known as the 'urafa', the mystical
gnostics, have meditated tirelessly, gnosis here being taken to
mean that perception which grasps the object not in its objec­
tivity, but as a sign, an intimation, an announcement that is
finally the soul's annunciation to itself.
When Suhrawardi, in the twelfth century, restored in Iran
the philosophy of Light and the angelology of ancient Persia,
his schema of the world was structured on the world of arche­
typal Images, an intermediary world in which transmutations
of the ephemeral into spiritual symbols take place and which,
by virtue of this, is the world where the resurrection of bodies
is effected. 28 Indeed, just as the body of the mortal Adam was
created from the material Earth, so the soul "substantiates" its
resurrection body from the heavenly Earth, which it projects
and meditates upon. The connection is rigorous. The active
Imagination is the organ of metamorphoses: the transmutation
of the Earth into the substance of the resurrection body depends
upon its manner of meditating upon the Earth. Such meditation,
as the source of the soul's activities, is the organ of this birth.
The very idea of body having thus been made independent of
representations of the body of perishable flesh, leads inevitably
to the idea of this mystical Earth of Hurqalyl which we shall
see as governing the spirituality of Shaikhism. The latter is a
school that arose in the midst of Iranian Shl'ism at the end of the
eighteenth century, and this idea remains without doubt the
truly creative contribution of that school in our time.
The task now will be to seek out how and under what condi­
tions the figure of the Angel takes shape exactly at the point
where the data of sensory perception are raised, as it were, to the
diaphanous state by the active Imagination (when the gltik is
perceived in its mlniJk ) .  This task is chiefly to make it clear what
kind of an organ this archetype-Image is, through which the
1 2

§1. "The Earth Is an Anger'
active Imagination, by perceiving things directly, effects their
transmutation; how it is that once this transmutation is effected,
things reftect its own Image to the soul, and how this self-recog­
nition of the soul brings into being a spiritual science of the
Earth and of earthly things, so that these things are known in
their Angel, as foreseen by the visionary intuition of Fechner.
Here there comes into play an Energy that sacralizes both the
minok state and also the getik state of being; the representation
of this Energy is so basic to the entire Mazdean view of the
world that it was wholly incorporated into the philosophical
restoration that was the work of Suhrawardl.27 This Energy is
operative from the initial instant of the formation of the world
until the final act announced and forecast in the technical term
Frashkart, which designates the transfiguration to be accom­
plished at the end of the Aeon by the Saoshyants or Saviors is­
suing from the race of Zarathustra. This is the Energy that is
designated by the term Xvarnah in the Avesta ( khurrah, farrah
in Persian ) . Several translators have attempted to define it, to
convey all its shades of meaning.28 The term "Light of Glory"
seems to us to restore what is essential, if at the same time we
keep in mind the Greek equivalents, already given above: ௧ole
and Tvxr, Glory and Destiny.19 It is the all-luminous substance,
the pure luminescence of which Ohrmazd's creatures were con­
stituted at their origin. "From it Ahura Mazda has created the
many and good . . . beautiful, marvelous • . . creatures, full of
life, resplendent" ( Y asht XIX, 10 ) . It is the Energy of sacral
light which gives coherence to their being, which measures at
the same time the power and the destiny imparted to a being,
which ensures victory to the beings of light over the corruption
and the death introduced into the Ohrmazdean creation by the
demonic Powers of darkness. 80 This energy is thus associated
essentially with eschatological hopes; so, in the liturgical chant
dedicated to Zamyat, the Angel of the Earth, the mention of the
creatures of light, whose attribute is this Light of Glory, calls
forth each time, in refrain, the following doxology: "Of such a
kind thnt they will make a new world, freed from old age and
clr.uth , from clecompoAition and corruption, eternally living, eter-
l :l

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
nally growing, possessing power at will, when the dead will rise
again, when immortality will come to the living, and when the
world will renew itself as desired" ( Y asht XIX, 1 1  ff. ) .
In iconography it is represented by the luminous halo, the
Aura Gloriae, which haloes the kings and priests of the Mazdean
religion, and later by transference, the figures of Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas, as well as the heavenly figures of primitive Chris­
tian art. Finally, a passage in the great Bundahishn, the Maz­
dean book of Genesis, fixes as precisely as one could wish the
direction in which this imagery is tending, when it identifies
Xvarnah, that Light which is Glory and Destiny, with the soul
itself.81 So this, finally and essentially, is the fundamental Image,
in which and by which the soul understands itself and perceives
its energies and its powers. In Mazdeism it represents what
depth psychology has taught us to distinguish as the archetypal
Image; here it is the Imago Animae. And perhaps we are thus
approaching the secret structure revealed and made possible
by the vision of the Earth in its Angel.
That Light of Glory, which is the archetype-Image of the
Mazdean soul, is in fact the organ by which the soul perceives
the world of light that is of the same nature as itself, and through
which, originally and directly, the soul effects the transmutation
of physical data, the very data which for us are "positive," but
which for the soul would be "insignificant." This is the very
Image that the soul projects into beings and things, raising them
to the incandescence of that victoria! Fire with which the Maz­
dean soul has set the whole of creation ablaze, and which it has
perceived above all in the dawns flaming on the mountain peaks,
in the very place where it was expecting the revelation of its own
destiny, and the Transfiguration of the Earth.
In short, it is by this projection of its o'Yn Image that the soul,
in effecting the transmutation of the material Earth, also estab­
lishes from the beginning an Imago Terrae that reflects and
announces its own Image to the soul, that is to say, an Image
whose Xvarnah is also the soul's own Xvarnah. It is at that point
-in and by this double reflection of the same Light of Glory­
that the Angel of the Earth is revealed to the mr.ntnl Night, that

§ 1. "The Earth Is an Anger'
is to say, that the Earth is perceived in the person of its Angel.
And this is what is admirably and profoundly expressed in a fea­
ture of Mazdean angelology, barely pondered upon until now,
when it is pointed out that the Amahraspand Spenta Armaiti,
the feminine Archangel of earthly existence, is the "mother" of
Da.eno..
DaʰnA is, in fact, the feminine Angel who typifies the tran­
scendent or celestial "I"; she appears to the soul at the dawn
following the third night after its departure from this world;
she is its Glory and its Destiny, its Aeon. The meaning of this
indication, therefore, is that the substance of the celestial "I" or
Resurrection Body is engendered and formed from the celestial
Earth, that is, from the Earth perceived and meditated in its
Angel. What it also means is that the destiny of the Earth en­
trusted to the transfigurative power of the souls of light leads
to the fulfillment of these souls, and that this is reciprocal. And
such is the profound meaning of the Mazdean prayer, many
times repeated in the course of the liturgies: "May we be among
those who are to bring about the Transfiguration of the Earth"
(Yasna XXX, 9 ) .
The mystery of this Imago Animae projecting the Imago Ter­
rae, and reciprocally the mystery of this archetype-Image of the
Earth "substantiating" the formation of the future total I, is
expressed, therefore, in angelological terms in the relationship
referred to above. Spenta Armaiti, who in the Pahlavi texts is
interpreted as perfect Thought, silent Meditation, and whose
name, excellently translated by Plutarch as Sophia, lights the
path of Mazdean sophiology-Spenta Armaiti is the "mother"
of DaʰnA, and at the same time the one concerning whom the
Mazdean believer, on his initiation at the age of fifteen, is taught
to profess: "My mother is Spendarmat, Archangel of the Earth,
and my father is Ohrmazd, the Lord Wisdom. "32 In what is here
the principium relationis we can perceive something like a
Mazdean sacramentum Terrae; in its essence, and from the very
name Spenta Armaiti Sophia, it can be described as a geosophy,
that is to say as being the Sophianic mystery of the Earth, whose
commmmution will be its eschatological Transfiguration (Frash-
1 5

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
kart ) . What we still have to formulate precisely here in bold
outline is the metamorphosis of the face of the Earth as seen by
the organ of the Mazdean active Imagination.
The perception of the Sophianic mystery of the Earth, of
geosophy, obviously cannot take place in the framework of posi­
tive geography. It presupposes a visionary geography, what has
been rightly called a "landscape of X varnah," that is, a landscape
prefiguring the Frashkart. This is not spread over profane, pre­
viously determined space, but is concentrated or concentrates a
sacral space in medio mundi, in the center of the vision contem­
plated in the presence of the visionary soul (or of the visionary
community) ,  and this space does not need to be situated, since
it is of itself situative. Geographical features, mountains for in­
stance, are here no longer merely physical features; they have a
significance for the soul; they are psycho-cosmic aspects. The
events that take place there consist in the very seeing of these
aspects; they are psychic events. So the paradise of Virna, the
paradise of the archetypes, exists in this center because it is the
meeting place of the Heavenly Beings and the Earthly Beings.
Such is the Image of the Earth that the cartographical method
of the ancient Iranians will reveal to us. Just as a landscape
of X varnah cannot be expressed by representative art, but has
essentially to do with symbolic art, so this map making does not
lead to reproducing the outlines of a continent. Rather, it
shapes an instrument for meditation that makes it possible
mentally to reach the center, the medium mundi, or rather to
take position there directly. Only a visionary geography can
be the scene of visionary events, because it itself takes part in
them; plants, water, mountains are transmuted into symbols,
that is, perceived by the organ of an Image which itself is the
presence of a visionary state. Like the heavenly Figures, the
earthly landscapes then appear haloed with the Light of Glory,
restored to their paradisal purity, and the visions of Zarathustra,
his meetings with Ohnnazd and the Archangels, take place and
are "Imagined" in a setting of mountains blazing in the dawn
and of heavenly waters in which grow the plants of immortality.
1 6

§2. The Seven Keshvars
2. The Earth of the Seven Keshvars
The schema of the surface of the earth, as projected here by the
active Imagination, is as follows.88 In the beginning, the Earth
was established as a continuous whole, but, because of oppres­
sion by the demonic Powers, it was divided into seven keshvars
[kishvar 1 ( Avestan karshvar) .  This word should be understood
as representing something analogous to the Latin orbis: these
keshvars are zones of Te"a firma, rather than "climates." Not
only is the image not the same etymologically, but it is advisable
to forestall confusion with the division into climates properly so
called, which will come later.
There is the central keshvar, called X vaniratha (which means
something like "luminous wheel" ) ,
u the extent of which in itself
alone is equal to that of all the six other keshvars, which are
arranged around it and separated one from another by the cosmic
ocean that surrounds them. There is one eastern keshvar, one
western keshvar, two to the north, two to the south. The keshvar
on the eastern side is called Savahi; the one on the western side,
Arezahi; the two keshvars to the south are Fradadhafshu and
Vidadhafshu; the two to the north are Vourubareshti and Vour­
jareshti. The mythical ocean surrounding and dividing them is
called Vourukasha. As to their situation, this is deduced astro­
nomically in relation to the keshvar which is the center, whose
presence, therefore, has the quality of situating space, before
itself being situated in that space. In other words, it is not a mat­
ter of a preexisting, homogeneous, and quantitative space in
which regions are distributed but the typical structure of a
qualitative space.
The eastern keshvar, Savahi, extends from the point where
the sun rises on the longest day to the point where it rises on
the shortest day. The two southern keshvars extend from this
last point to the point where the sun sets on the shortest day.
From there to the point where the sun sets on the longest day
extends the western climate, Arezahi. Finally the two northern
keshvnrs extend from this last point to where the sun rises on
1 7

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
the longest day. The names of the six keshvars that surround
the central climate of Xvaniratha actually correspond to mythi­
cal regions (Fig. 1 ) .  For this reason it has been possible to take
North
West
East
South
Figure 1 .  Diagram of the seven mythic keshvars.
them as originally referring to a celestial topography later ap­
plied to terrestrial localities; thus lakes and mountains of the
Earth would be named after their celestial archetypes. As for
the significance of the names of these keshvars, we can divine
it from the names of the six Saoshyants (Saviors ) that corre­
spond to them symmetrically, that is, from the names of the six
heroes who, each in his own respective keshvar, will cooperate
with the last of the Saoshyants in the transfiguration of the
world.35
1 8

§2. The Seven Keshvars
As we have just said, the arrangement of these keshvars cor­
responding to mythical regions does not confirm the data of
positive geography, but gives shape to the Imago Terrae pro­
jected by the imaginative perception. This being so, it is· no
longer possible today, as it was in the beginning, for humans
to pass from one keshvar to another. 38
Airyanem Vaejah (Pahlavi .Eran-Vej) ,  the cradle or seed of
the Aryans ( = Iranians ) , is in X vaniratha at the center of the
central keshvar. There it was that the Kaylinids, the heroes of
legend, were created; there, the Mazdean religion was founded
and from there spread into the other keshvars; there will be
born the last of the Saoshyants, who will reduce Ahriman to
impotence and bring about the resurrection and the existence
to come.
In its turn, Xvaniratha, which represents the totality of geo­
graphic space now accessible to man, although it is only one of
the seven parts of the inhabited Earth, 37 was later divided into
seven regions, according to a plan in which a central circle rep­
resents the land of Iran, around which are grouped six other
circles, but this time tangent to one another and of equal radius.
This was the method of circular representation that the Iranian
geographers of the Sassanid period transmitted to the Arabs;
YliqO.t, for instance, working from ancient data, expressly at­
tributes this method of geographical representation to Zoroaster
(Fig. 2 )  .38
This method is exactly what allows us to discover an entirely
appropriate way of imagining and meditating the Earth. 39 In
fact, it determines a structure independent of all systems of
spatial coordinates: "to posit an origin is all it requires."40 In
contemplating this structure, one's attention converges toward
the center and is always called back there, since the location,
direction, and orientation of the other keshvars are determined
by the center and originate from it (in order to grasp the con­
trast, it suffices to compare it with the cartographical method of
Ptolemy, in which climates are represented by parallel belts
ranging outward from the equator ) .  The entire structure, there­
fore, i" ordered in respect to thiS center-origin. In whatever place

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
Figure 2. The seven geographic keshvars according
to Biruni ( lOth century ) .
according to positive geography we have to situate the primitive
history of the Iranians-whether to the east in central Asia or
to the west in Azerbaijan-the mental process of remembering
is the same: the Events took place and are remembered in
:Erln-Vej, that is, at the center, which is at the same time the
origin. The presence of the subject at the center is not a situated
presence but a situative presence. In medio mundi the soul is no
longer bound to spatial coordinates. Instead of "falling into," of
having to be situated in a predetermined space, the soul itself
"spatializes," is always the origin of the spatial references and
determines their structure. That is why we find here, not an
empirical representation, but an archetypal figure.
There are other possible examples of this figure, which always
tend to establish the soul in the center or lead it back there, be­
cause it is not in dispersion but in concentration that the Imago
Terrae can reflect its own Image back to the soul, or reciprocally,
that the soul can fix its meditation on the archetype-Image. This
was, for example, the meaning of the art and structure of gar­
dens in Iran (it is known that our word paradiu originated from

§2. The Seven Keshvars
a Medean word, pairidaeza ) . u That is why it can be said that
the representation of the Earth with its seven keshvars as an
archetype-Figure is an instrument for meditation. It is offered
as a mandala. It guides a movement of thought that travels, not
on a syllogistic or dialectical track, but as in the way of the
ta'wil, the exegesis of symbols, a spiritual exegesis leading back
to the origin, which is the center,u there precisely where the
apparent can be occultated and the hidden manifested (just as
in alchemy, as noted above ) .  This, indeed, is the real trans­
mutation of what is written (whether in a book or in the cosmos)
into symbols; what is written is raised to incandescence and the
hidden significance shines through the covering, which becomes
transparent. From this point we can grasp the connection of
such a cartography with the events of a visionary geography,
the geography of a world that secretes its own light, like those
Byzantine mosaics whose gold illumines the space they encom­
pass, or like the icons or landscapes of some Persian school,
where the red-gold background transfigures the colors; or like
the paradise of Virna, in medio mundi, and also the Earth of
Ho.rqalya, on which we shall dwell at length in the following
pages.
From this point, we can pass beyond the level on which. was
posed one of the most irritating questions, which tormented
several generations of orientalists: Where did the Zoroastrian
preaching take place? Where was £ran-Vʰj, since it was in
£ra.n-Vej that Zarathustra had his visions and began to teach?
Today most orientalists take for granted that the place of his
preaching (which we can still hear in reading the Gathiis ) , was
in central Asia, somewhere in the upper Oxus region, at the east­
ern boundary of the Iranian world.48 On the other hand, this
prevalent scientific certainty contradicts later Iranian traditions,
of the Sasanid and post-Sasanid period, which would place the
birth and preaching of Zarathustra on the western boundary of
the Iranian world, in Azerbaijan. There have been attempts to
reconcile these contradictions but always with the wish to remain
on the ground of positive facts: Zarathustra was probably born
in the West but his preaching probably took place in the East.
2 1

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
A recent solution was clearly inspired by the system of the
keshvars. In this case it is suggested that the sacred history of
primitive Zoroastrianism took place in the East of the Iranian
world; that the Zoroastrian mission then penetrated progres­
sively toward the West of the Iranian world until one fine day
the geographic orientation was simply reversed (the eastern
keshvar became the western keshvar) . Even the word "falsifica­
tion" comes into it on the grounds that the western Magi identi­
fied the holy places of sacred history (the Arax, Mount Savalan,
the holy city of Shrz ) after the event, without this identification
having the least "historical" value!H
In reality, the term "falsification" is completely irrelevant,
since these questions point in fact to the preservation of the
structure of an essentially qualitative space, whose regions are
ordered in relation to one another, not according to preestab­
lished geometrical coordinates, but according to _their intrinsic
qualification. If there was complete transposition of the place of
historical scenes, this fact presupposes and bears witness in the
first place to the possibility of a mental operation, the verifica­
tion and significance of which elude positive science, which,
bound as it is to material data alone, is thereby reduced to sus­
pecting "falsification," even if unconscious. But the schema of the
seven keshvars considered as an archetypal representation clearly
reveals to us this possibility and the process involved, that is,
the presence that constitutes the center and which, as such, is
the origin and not the resultant of spatial references, which is
not situated but situative. This presence carries its space along
with it without needing to change the system of spatial refer­
ences as a whole. Or rather, since this center is still and at all
times the Center, there has, in the reality of the psychic event,
been no real transfer (in space ) .  The significance of the Center,
the medium mundi, as the place where psycho-spiritual events
always take place, as the space of hierophanies, 45 allows us to
pose the problem on a level where traditional certainty and the
certainties of positive science no longer conflict.
It is by no means our intention to relegate the sacred history
of Zoroastrianism to the "realm of legend." But it iN C!lllential to

§2. The SeTJen Keshvars
take into account that in whatever place a historical event (in
the current meaning of the term ) may have taken place in outer
and material reality, verifiable by the senses of those who wit­
nessed it, there had to be-in order that notification of the
Event should reach us in its spiritual identity, regardless of the
diversity of the physical localizations-an organ of remembrance
functioning in a way quite different from the verifications of
our positive science, which, restricted to what for it are the
"facts," has thereby a one-sided understanding of the physical
event. This organ of remembrance and religious meditation is
precisely the archetype-Image which, by being projected onto
materially diverse geographical spaces, has been able to trans­
mute them by bringing them back to itself as Center, in such a
way that the hierophanic space is always and in each case at the
center. The active Imagination has then been able to consecrate
them as holy places and identify them each time as being indeed
the same Earth of vision; not the other way round, namely, that
some material quality (even "historical") of spaces here and
there imposes evidence of their sacredness, determines their
identity, or on the contrary causes a "mistake" to be made. Hiero­
phanies take place in the soul, not in things. And it is the event
in the soul that situates, qualifies, and sacralizes the space in
which it is imagined.
And so, what are the Events that take place in £rln-Vej?
There are the memorable liturgies, celebrated by Ohrmazd him­
self, by the celestial beings, by the legendary heroes. It was in
£rAn-Vej that Ohrmazd himself celebrated liturgies in honor of
Ardvl SurA AnAhitA, "the High, the Sovereign, the Immaculate,"
the Angel-Goddess of the celestial Waters, in order to ask her
that Zarathustra be attached to him and be his faithful prophet
( Vasht V, 18 ) . Zarathustra asked the same goddess for the con­
version of King VIshtAspa (Vasht V, 105 ) .48 It was in £rAn-Vej
that the comely Virna, "Virna of shining beauty, the best of
mortals," received the order to build the enclosure, the V ar,
where were gathered together the elect from among all beings,
the fairest, the most gracious, that they might be preserved
from the mortal winter unleiiHhed hy the demonic Powers, and
2:1

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
some day repopulate a transfigured world. Indeed, the V ar of
Yima is, as it were, a city, including houses, storehouses, and
ramparts. It has luminescent doors and windows that themselves
secrete the light within, for it is illuminated both by uncreated
and created lights. But once a year, the stars, the moon, and the
sun are seen to set and rise; that is why a year seems but a day.
Every forty years, each human couple gives birth to another
couple, masculine and feminine. And this perhaps suggests the
androgynous condition of those beings who "live the most beauti­
ful of lives within the unchanging V ar of Yima. ""
Is it by meditation or by a campaign of archeological excava­
tion that we can hope to discover the traces of this Paradise of
archetypes, of this celestial Earth in the center of the world that
preserves the seed of the resurrection bodies? Yima's Paradise
cannot be marked on the surface of our maps, subject to a system
of coordinates. What is called for here is not topographical re­
search, but to achieve the transparency which allows the arche­
type-Image to appear, in the only place where this is possible, in
medio mundi. This, therefore, is our quest: How does the vision­
ary geography take shape, when perceived from this center of
the world, and of what psycho-spiritual events does it indicate
the presence?
S. Visionary Geography
Once again Y asht XIX, the liturgical chant dedicated expressly
to ZamyAt, the Angel of the Earth, Dea T errestris, is what sheds
full light on the Mazdean Imago Terrae. The hymn character­
istically opens by an evocation enumerating all the mountains, 48
in celebration of the X "Varnah and its distinguished possessors,
amongst whom are included precisely some of these mountains.
Indeed, the latter play an essential part in the composition of
the visionary landscape that prefigures the Transfiguration of
the Earth. They are preeminently the seat of theophanies and
angelophanies. According to the ritual, on the twenty-eighth day
of the month (the day of ZamyAt) , the liturgy is offered to the
"Earth which is an Angel, to the mountains of thr. dawns, to all

§3. Visionary Geography
the mountains, to the Light of Glory."49 A connection is already
outlined, the patterns in which will become clear.
The Mazdean book of Genesis ( Bundahishn )  gives a striking
description of the formation of the mountains: 10 under attack
by the demonic Powers of Ahriman, the Earth began to tremble,
it shook in horror and rebellion. As if to set up a rampart against
these powers, the Earth raised up its mountains. First the power­
ful chain of mountains surrounding it, which, in the A vesta, is
called "Hara berezaiti." Etymologically this is the Persian Elbun,
and it is the name given until today to the chain of mountains
bordering Iran on the north, from west to east; and so it is here,
amidst the peaks and high plateaus of that chain, that the SAsAnid
tradition rediscovered the sites of the episodes in the sacred
history of Zoroastrianism. In any case, there or elsewhere,
visionary space presupposes the transmutation of sensory data.
In order for the "real" Elburz to correspond to this visionary
space, for example, the active Imagination has to recapture it in
its archetypal species. That is why we can leave aside here all
discussion of positive material topography, and concern ourselves
only with the Image, insofar as it is an organ of perception, and
insofar as it is itself perceived through a psycho-geography.
Indeed, we are far removed from the ordinary view and posi­
tive proofs. Elburz has not ceased to grow during eight hundred
years: two hundred years to the station of the stars, two hundred
years to the station of the Moon, two hundred years to the station
of the Sun, and two hundred years to that of the infinite Lights.11
Now, these are the four degrees of the Mazdean Heaven. Elburz
is therefore indeed the cosmic mountain, raised up by the su­
preme effort made by the Earth in order not to be separated
from Heaven. It is "the resplendent mountain . . . where there
is neither night, nor darkness, nor sickness with a thousand
deaths, nor infection created by the demons."12 It is the seat of
divine palaces created by the Archangels. And the other moun­
tains all originate from it, as if from a gigantic tree growing
and thrusting out roots from which spring other trees. The
mountain system thus forms a network in which each peak is a
knot.na People have tried to identify them on the basis of their

I. Maz.dean Imago Terrae
numbe৑-the number 2244 is alluded to in the tradition: some
have been pronounced "real," others "mythical." The only thing
that guides us with any certainty is the Image, which appre­
hends both the "real" ones and the "mythical."
Here, then, we have a group of high peaks which present
difficulties no doubt forever insoluble by those who seek to place
them by the positive method. As against this, the situation of
these high peaks teaches us about the Earth as an event lived by
the soul, that is, it shows us in what manner the Earth has been
meditated by the organ of the active Imagination. It would be
difficult, indeed, to localize these mountains by means of positive
topography, for the intention and aim of this meditation was
quite different from that of our positive science. All the moun­
tains where the active Imagination perceives a hierophany of
the Xvarnah are in :Er!in-Vej, in medio mundi; on them, the
Xvarnah projects the scenes of the events experienced or fore­
seen, giving body to them, because the active Imagination is in
itself their substance and their body, that which at the same time
enacts them and experiences them.
There is in :ErAn-Vej a mountain called Hnkairya (Hugar,
the very high ) , 54 a mountain which is as high as the stars, and
from which pours down the torrent of the heavenly Waters of
Ardvr SOrA AnAhita, "the High, the Sovereign, the Immacu­
late,"55 a torrent "possessing a Xvarnah as great as all the Waters
together which flow upon the Earth. "58 There it is that the earthly
abode of the goddess of the heavenly Waters is imagined. She
thus appears as the paradisal source of the Water of Life. Mar­
velous plants and trees grow in or around this wellspring, and
above all the white Haoma, "Gaokarena,"57 of which it is said:
"He who partakes of it becomes immortal. "58 That is why the
Elixir of immortality will be made from this at the moment of
the final Transfiguration. The tree which cures all ills and "in
which are deposited the seeds of all plants,"59 grows next to the
white Haoma. Indeed, the fertility of all beings in all their forms
depends on the goddess or feminine Angel Ardvr SarA. However,
she is by no means the "Terra Mater" after the manner of Cybele,

§3. Visionary Geography
for example; she is far more like a Virgin of the Waters, pure,
chaste, immaculate, recalling the Greek Artemis. 80
In £rAn-Vej, close by the mountain of Hnkairya, there is a
mountain of the dawns ( U shidarena ) .  The liturgical chant to
the Angel Zamyat opens with a strophe in praise of this moun­
tain of the dawns. It is made of ruby, of the substance of heaven;
it is situated in the middle of the cosmic sea Vourukasha, into
which it pours the waters it receives from Hnkairya. It is the
first mountain to be lighted up by the auroral fires;81 for this
reason, it is the receptacle, the treasury of the dawns, and like­
wise (by homophony) that which gives intelligence to men. It is
said that "the mountain first lighted up by the rays of the dawn
also enlightens the intelligence, since dawn and intelligence are
one ( ushii. and us hi ) . "sa
Finally, the ritual affirms the connection which is essential
here between the mountain of dawn and eschatology: 88 it pre­
scribes that an offering be made to the Angel Arshtat at the
hour of Aushahin (that is, between midnight and dawn) ,  and
the reason given is that the mountain of dawn is mentioned in
order to propitiate the Angel ArshtAt. And now the connection
becomes clear: it is at the dawn that rises after the third night
following death that the soul has to face the ordeal of the Chinvat
Bridge. Thus, the mountain of dawn is invested with the Light
of Glory at the exact hour when the soul is called upon to testify
concerning its earthly existence in the presence of the Angel
ArshtAt and of Zamyat, the Angel of the Earth, both of whom
assist the Amahraspand Amertlt in the "weighing" of the souls. u
"The souls are in the light of dawn when they go to render their
account; their passing takes place through the splendid dawn."
So what is perceived here in the mountain haloed by the Glory
of the dawns is not an astronomical phenomenon, but the dawn
of immortality: the Imago Gloriae being projected onto the
rising dawn, this dawn appears to the soul as the anticipated
presence of a state already lived, that is, as the anticipation of its
personal eschatology.
Another high mountain, the Chakad-i-Dartik (the peak of

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
judgment) ,  completes this same landscape of individual escha­
tology and is also situated in :Erln-Vʰj, the middle of the world. as
From its summit springs the Bridge of Chinvat, at the entrance
to which takes place the meeting of the soul either with Daʰnl,
its heavenly "1," or, on the contrary, with the terrible apparition
that reflects nothing but an "1," mutilated and disfigured by every
kind of ugliness, cut off from its celestial archetype. So this is
the situation, above all others, when the Imago Terrae, transfig­
uring the outer material data, shows the perfect soul the places
and symbolic landscapes of its anticipated eternity, in which it
encounters its own heavenly Image. The perfect soul crosses the
Bridge of Chinvat by the impetus of its spiritual flight and the
power of its actions: it moves on towards the stars, then to the
Moon, then to the Sun, and then to the infinite Lights. 88 Here
again we have the four stages of the growth of the Alburz. Thus
the Bridge of Chinvat links the summit that is in the center of
the world to the cosmic mountain; and the ascent of the latter
leads to the GarDtman, to the "Abode of the Hymns."
So we shall no longer be astonished to find the mountains re­
called in the beginning of the hymn to ZamyAt, nor shall we see
the latter as a mere list of physical features devoid of religious
content. 87 In fact, none of these-the dawns blazing on the
mountain tops, the torrents of spring water, the plants of im­
mortality growing in them-belong to the empirical earth ac­
cessible to the neutral verification of sensory perception. This
is the Earth perceived in £r1n-Vʰj as the original Iranian Earth;
this is an Earth which the Mazdean active Imagination has
transmuted into the symbol anq center of the soul, and which is
integrated into the spiritual events of which the soul itself is
the scene. Here we already glimpse that what the soul perceives
through its Imago Terrae is actually both its own archetypal
Image and the enactment of its own mental dramaturgy.
Neither the dawn, nor the running waters, nor the plants,
are perceived as equivalent to what we call astronomical, geo­
logical, or botanical phenomena. The dawn in which Daүnl is
revealed, the heavenly waters of Ardvr SurA, the plants of
Amertlt, all of them-the dawns, waters, and plantS-are per-

§3. Visionary Geography
ceived in their Angel, because beneath the appearance the appari­
tion becomes visible to the Imagination. And this is the phe­
nomenon of the Angel, the figure which the active Imagination
reveals itself to be, which it reveals to itself beneath the appear­
ances perceived, is the figure of the Angels of the Earth. That
is why terrestrial phenomena are more than phenomena: they
are the hierophanies proper to Mazdeism which, in beings and
things, reveal who these beings and these things are, that is,
who their heavenly person, the source of their X varnah, is. 88
Again, in other words, the beings and the things, having been
transmuted by the Imagination into their subtle ( mtn̟k ) state,
are revealed as the actions of a personal thought, of which they
are the hierurgy.
The active Imagination perceives and shows to itself an Earth
which is other than that Earth which is seen in ordinary sensory
experience. That other Earth is the Earth irradiated and trans­
figured by Xvarnah. But the Light of Glory is most certainly
not a material quality inherent in sensory substances, perceptible
by all men without distinction; phenomenologically, we should
understand it as being at the same time the Light which con­
stitutes, haloes, and enlightens the soul, and the primordial
Image of itself which the soul projects. Thus it is the organ by
which the soul shows to itself earthly things transfigured, or
awaiting the final Transfiguration. The soul must, indeed, have
an Image of itself of such a kind that, by projecting it, it can
discover in its vision the figures of the Light of Glory. In the soul
raised to incandescence by this Light of Glory, with which it
is finally identified,811 it becomes possible, like Fechner, to see
that the "Earth is an Angel," or rather for the Earth to be aeen
in its heavenly person, and, thanks to her, at the same time for
all the feminine Angels of the Earth to be seen as the "sisters,"
or as the "mother" of the Angel DaenA, the heavenly "1," the
Anima coelestis. The Image of the Earth is revealed here in the
form of an Angel, because it is imagined in the Image of the
soul; their homology is revealed in the very kinship of their
Angels.
We can therefore say thi!l: the Imago Terrae, while it is the
g{)

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
organ of perception itself, also signifies those aspects and figures
of the Earth that are perceived, no longer simply by the senses
nor as sensory empirical data, but by the archetype-Image, the
Image a priori of the soul itself. The Earth is then a vision, and
geography a visionary geography. Hence it is the Image of itself
and its own Image that the soul rediscovers and meets. This
Image projected by it is at the same time the one which enlight­
ens it and the one which reflects back to it the figures in its
Image, of which reciprocally it is itself the Image, namely: the
feminine Angels of the Earth that are in the likeness of Daenll­
Anima. That is why the Mazdean phenomenology of the Earth
is, properly speaking, an angelology.
Out of geographical studies, a new line of study, described
as psychological geography, has developed in our day: 70 The
intention is to discover the psychological factors that come into
play in the conformation given to a landscape. The phenomeno­
logical presupposition implicit in research of this kind is that
the essential functions of the soul, the psyche, include the pro­
jection of a nature, a physis; conversely, each physical structure
discloses the mode of psycho-spiritual activity that brings it into
operation. In this sense, the categories of the sacredness "which
possesses the soul" can be recognized in the landscape with
which it surrounds itself and in which it shapes its habitat,
whether by projecting the vision on an ideal iconography, or by
attempting to inscribe and reproduce a model of the vision on the
actual earthly ground. This is why each of the hierophanies of
our visionary geography offers an example of a case of psycho­
geography unlike any other. We shall limit ourselves here to a
rapid description of two such examples.
The first example is supplied by the iconography of what has
been called the "landscape of Xvarnah." How can one represent
an earthly landscape in which everything is transfigured by that
Light of Glory which the soul projects onto it? When the
Mazdean soul perceives that this Energy of sacral light is the
power that causes the springs to gush forth, the plants to germi­
nate, the clouds to sail by, human beings to be born, that it is
the power that lights up their intelligence, endows them with

§3. Visionary Geography
a victorious and supernatural strength, and consecrates them as
beings of light by clothing them in hieratical dignity-none of
this can be expressed in representative painting, but only by a
preeminently symbolical art. As the earthly splendor of the
divinity, the Xvarnah Imagined by the soul transfigures the
Earth into a heavenly Earth, a glorious landscape symbolizing
with the paradisal landscape of the beyond. This requires, there­
fore, a form of expression combining all the hierophanic ele­
ments of this Glory and transmuting them into pure symbols of
a transfigured nature.
Perhaps the best illustration of this which has come down
to us today is to be found in a late manuscript which so far is
considered unique of its kind, whose full-page paintings in fan­
tastic colors were executed at Shiraz in southern Persia at the
end of the fourteenth century (A.D. 1:398 ) .71 (See plate facing
p. :32. ) And here it would be appropriate to recall the landscapes
in certain Byzantine mosaics, without even pausing to consider
controversial questions about material influences or historical
causality.
The second example of imagination of the celestial Earth can
be observed in that sacred botany that connects the cultivation
of flowers and floral art with the liturgy. A characteristic feature
of Mazdean angelology is to give each of its Archangels and
Angels a flower as an emblem, to point out, as it were, that if
one wishes mentally to contemplate each of these heavenly
Figures and to become the receptacle of their Energies, then the
best instrument of meditation is indeed the flower which is their
respective symbol. So, for each of the Archangels or Angels
to whom one day of the month is respectively consecrated, and
for whom that day is named, there is a corresponding flower.
For Ohrmazd, myrtle. For Vohuman, white jasmine. For Artava­
hisht, marjoram. For Shatrlvar, the royal plant (basil ) .  For
SpendarmAt, musk (sweet basil ) .  For Khordllt, the lily. For
AmertAt, that perfumed yellow flo৒er called "campak" in
Sanskrit.
After the Amahraspands come the feminine Angels, which
arc more clo!tcly related to tlu௦ soul, to Xvarnah, and to the
:l

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
Earth: Ardvr StirA has the iris as her emblem; DaenA, the rose
with a hundred petals; Ashi Vanuhi (Ashisang) ,  her sister, all
wild flowers (or else the chrysanthemum, buphthalmus ) ;
ArshtAt, the white haoma; ZamyAt, saffron,'2 and so on. These
flowers played an important role in ancient Zoroastrian liturgical
practise; certain flowers were used for each Angel whose liturgy
was being particularly celebrated. The ancient Persians, too, had
a language of flowers, which was a sacred language. 78 More­
over, this delicate and subtle symbolism offers unlimited possi­
bilities to liturgical imagination as well as for rituals of medita­
tion. In their tum, the art of gardens and the cultivation of a
garden thus acquire the meaning of a liturgy and a mental
actualization of a vision. In this art, flowers play the part of the
materia prima for alchemical meditation. This means mentally
reconstituting Paradise, keeping company with heavenly beings;
contemplation of the flowers which are their emblems evoke
psychic reactions, which transmute the forms contemplated into
energies corresponding to them; these psychic energies are finally
dissolved into states of consciousness, into states of mental vision
through which the heavenly Figures appear.
In both of the examples we have just analysed, we see that
the intention and effort of the soul tends to give a form to the
celestial Earth and to actualize it, thus making possible the
epiphany of the beings of light. The Earth of Visions has to be
reached in medio mundi, where real events are the visions them­
selves. And such, indeed, are the events described in the Recitals
concerning the prophetic investiture of Zarathustra. The Zara­
tusht-Nama (the "Book of Zoroaster") tells us about it with
sublime simplicity: "When Zarathustra had reached the age of
thirty, he had the desire for £ritn-Vej, and set out with some
companions, men and women."74 To have desire for £ritn-Vej
is to desire the Earth of Visions, to reach the center of the world,
the celestial Earth, where the meeting with the Immortal Saints
takes place. In fact, the episodes that mark the progress and
entry of Zarathustra and his companions into £ritn-Vej, and the
moment in time when this entry is achieved, are neither outer

§3. Visionary Geography
events nor dates that can be chronologically recorded. They are
hierophanic episodes and signposts.
The landscapes and events are completely real, and yet they
no longer depend on positive topography, nor on chronological
history. An essential clue is that access to Erln-Vej is a rupture
with the laws of the physical world. A large expanse of water
stands in the way of the little group; led by Zarathustra, all of
them cross it without even stripping off their clothes: "As a
vessel glides over the flowing waves, so did they walk on the sur­
face of the water" (Zaratusht-Nama, ch. XVI ) .  Corresponding
to hierophanic space, Time is no longer profane time with dates
which can be recorded in the caiendars of history (although
this has been attempted) .  The arrival in £rAn-Vej, the Earth of
Visions in media mundi, takes place on the last day of the year
(the eve of Naw Raz; in Shi•rte theosophy, the parousia of the
hidden ImAm likewise occurs on the first day of the year, the
Naw Raz ) .  Now, each Mazdean month, as well as the whole
year, is the homologue of the Aeon, the great cycle of the Time­
of-long-domination. The "date" is therefore in this case a hiero­
phanic sign: it heralds the end of a millennium, the dawn of a
new age (further on we shall also see that the celestial Earth
of Hnrqalya lies on the boundary between Time and the Aevum ) .
In the same way, also, the first theophany will take place on the
fifteenth of the month of Ordibehesht, which corresponds to the
median division of twelve millennia, that is, to the moment when
the Fravarti (the celestial entity) of Zarathustra was sent on its
mission to earth. Here the dates are those of a liturgical cycle
commemorating and repeating the "events in Heaven."
At this point, Zarathustra leaves his companions. He reaches
the river DAitr, in the center of £rln-Vej (Zariitusht-Niima, p.
25, n. 6; Zat-Spram, II, 6 ) ,  on the banks of which he was born.
Thus he returns to the origin, to the archetypal world, the neces­
sary prelude to the direct vision of the archetypal Powers of
light. There he is, alone, on the bank of the immense, bottomless
river, which is divided into four branches. He enters it fearlessly,
plunging ever more deeply into each of the four branches of the

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
river (Zariitusht-Nama, ch. XX) .  Here the Zoroastrian tradition
has captured so well the feeling of the psycho-spiritual impor­
tance of the event that it applies the process of the ta'wil or eso­
teric exegesis of the Spirituals of Islam to the external date, and
leads the Event back to the spiritual reality that gives it its theme
and structure. The crossing of the four branches of the river
Dlitl is equivalent in this context to the mental achievement of
the totality of the Aeon. It represents Zarathustra redivivus in
the person of the three Saoshyants issued from his Xvarnah, who
will bring about the transfiguration of the world (Zariitusht­
Nama, ch. XXI; Zat-Spram, XXI, 7 ) .
And when the first theophany takes place, when the vision
takes the shape of the Archangel Bahman (Vohu Manah ) ,  of
prestigious beauty, "resplendent from afar like the sun and
clothed in a robe of light,"u the Archangel orders Zarathustra
to put off his dress, that is, his material body, his organs of
sensory perception, and allow himself to be taken into the
dazzling presence of the divine thearchy of the Seven. The
dialogue opens in the manner of the dialogue between Hermes
and his Nous, Poimandres. The Archangel asks: ''Tell me your
name, what you seek in the world, and to what you aspire."
Accompanied by the Archangel, Zarathustra is in ecstasy in the
presence of the Council of Archangels. Here a new detail of
mystical physiology is given-as soon as Zarathustra entered
the assembly of the Celestials, he no longer "sees the projection
of his own shadow on the ground, because of the dazzling
splendor of the Archangels" (Ziit-Spram, XXI, IS ) .  It means
that to take off the "material dress" is to foretaste the state of the
Body of Light, or resurrection body, the pure diaphanous in­
candescence of Archangelical Lights; this pure incandescence
unites with the Lights without casting a shadow, because it is
itself a source of light. Not to cast a shadow is the property of
the glorious body, is to be at the center. And the significance of
all this is that the seat and organ of the events which take place
in the land of :£rln-Vej is the subtle body of light.18
Finally, the theophanies take place on the high peaks of this
Earth. The Avesta mentions the mountain and the forest where

§3. Visionary Geography
the sacred conversations take place.17 There are late traditions
that identify this mountain with certain mountains of positive
geography;78 we have already tried to define the mental process
that leads to such homologation. Let us rather call to mind here
the indications in the Pahlavi texts referring particularly to two
of these mountains, which were the places of these theophanies:
Hukairya, the mountain of the primordial Waters, where the
white Haoma, the plant of immortality, grows, 71 and the moun­
tain of the dawn, haloed in the Light of Glory at the exact hour
when the dawn of the heavenly life rises in the soul. It is true,
therefore, that the ecstasies of Zarathustra take place precisely
where the inner vision preexperiences the individual eschatology.
The mountain tops of the Earth of visions are the mountain tops
of the soul. The two archetypal Images, the Imago Terrae and
the Imago Animae, correspond to one another: the mountain of
visions is the psycho-cosmic mountain.
Moreover, this has been confirmed by certain ancient tradi­
tions that have been preserved in the Greek texts relating to
Zarathustra. For example, Porphyry describes the retreat of
Zarathustra in a grotto in the mountains of Persis, adorned with
flowers and gushing springs, which provided a perfect Imago
mundi80 for his meditation. Dion Chrysostom mentions the high
peak on which Zarathustra retired in order to "live in the way
that was his own," and where a ceremony of ecstasy, invisible to
the eyes of the profane, unfolds in a setting of fire and super­
natural splendor. 81 Retreat on the psycho-cosmic mountain ac­
tually represents an essential phase of every mysteriosophy: its
final act is an ecstasy; then the heavenly Figures, as they become
apparent through the organ of its own archetype-Image, are
made visible to the soul. And here once more it is perhaps to a
Greek text that we owe an essential detail of the sacred ecstasies
in :£rtin-Vүj; it was Agathos Daimon who directly initiated Zara­
thustra into wisdom. Now, earlier research allowed us to recog­
nize Agathos Daimon as a figure homologous to that of DaenA,
the celestial "1 ," the Anima coelestis.82
So, finally, the vision of the earthly landscape haloed by the
Xvarnalr , the Light of Glory, 011 well 011 the consistent character
:15

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
of the events, visible only to the soul, which take place there, all
of this begins to convey an eschatological orientation. It is a
foretaste both of the final Transfiguration of the Earth ( Frash­
kart ) and the great event of individual eschatology, the auroral
meeting with the heavenly "I," the Angel Daenll, at the entrance
to the Chinvat Bridge. That is why this visionary geography
creates a mental iconography that offers a support for meditation
on what we previously called geosophy, and is revealed as in­
separable from eschatology, for its function is essentially to
prepare the birth of the earthly human being to his celestial
"I," which is Daenil, the daughter of Spenta Armaiti-Sophia.
4. Geosophy and the Feminine Angels of the Earth
An exposition of this geosophy will therefore incline to take the
form of an outline of Mazdean Sophiology. The very term
"geosophy" suggested here is merely a translation of the name
Spenta Armaiti, the Sophia and Feminine Angel of the Earth. 88
What this term makes apparent from the start is the striking
difference between a vague feeling ( and the commonplace no­
tion) of being a "son of the earth" on the one hand and on the
other the feeling and knowledge characteristically expressed in
the Mazdean profession of faith, and impressed on the adept in
that context, of being a human individual who is the son of
Spenta Armaiti, the feminine Archangel of the Earth. 84 The sec­
ond term in the filial relationship is now no longer a man impris­
oned between the boundaries of terrestrial birth and death, but
a human being in his totality, including the past of his pre­
existence and the future of his superexistence. The filial relation­
ship with the Archangel Spenta Armaiti extends from the pre­
existential celestial "I" to that celestial "I" by and for whom she
will engender the man. It is the consummation of a form of
existence preluded in Heaven86 at the dramatic moment when
the Fravartis accept to descend to the material Earth and there
wage battle on the side of the Powers of Light against all the
human-faced demons. For the human soul, it is the moment of
S6

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
choosing to come to Earth and answer there for the Powers of
Light, as the latter will answer for it post mortem.
Therefore the choice of the soul will also be its judge. Par­
ticipating at each moment of the Aeon in the final work of the
Saoshyants, each soul of light must fight for the Transfiguration
of the Earth, for the expulsion of the demonic Powers from the
Ohrmazdian creation. And the vision that transmutes the Earth
and the things of the Earth into symbols already inaugurates the
restoration of the Earth to its paradisal purity. The victory of
the soul incarnated in terrestrial existence is measured by the
degree of this restoration, that is, by the degree of the soul's
X varnah, of its growth toward its celestial existence to come,
of its resurrection body, the substance of which, reciprocally, is
made of that celestial Earth which is its action and its work.
For man to undertake such a work, is precisely to undertake
in his own being what the Pahlavr texts call Spendarmatikih88
(an abstract noun derived from Spendarmat, the Pahlavl form
of the name Spenta Armaiti) ,  and which we can translate as
Sophianity, the Sophianic nature of Spenta Armaiti considered
as Sophia (in accordance with Plutarch's translation and with
the Pahlavl texts) .  By assuming this nature, the human being
is then, in the true sense, the son of the Angel of the Earth,
and so able to have a mental vision of her. The soul then
awakens also to consciousness of its celestial kinship. Around
Dal!nA, who is the daughter of Spenta Armaiti and who is
herself Sophia, are clustered the figures of Angel-Goddesses
whose hierophanies are described in the Avesta in marvellous
terms (Chisti, Ashi Vanuhi, Arshtlt, ZamyAt, Ardvl SOrA
AnahitA) , which reveal the personal forms in which exemplifi­
cations of one and the same archetype were suggested experien­
tially to Mazdean consciousness, this archetype being the central
symbol by which the totality and completeness of his being are
proclaimed to man. Here experience is schematized in conformity
with the fundamental angelology of the Mazdean vision of the
world. The presence of a feminine Archangel of the Earth in the
celestinl pleromn was recognized and experienced. This relation-

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
ship establishes the Mazdean sacramentum Terrae, the Sophianic
mystery of the Earth.
It must be admitted that very few efforts have been made to
bring all the Figures of Mazdean angelology into a coherent
whole. Usually, people have been content merely to put together
the "facts." Rarely has an effort of meditation been applied in
order to comprehend these Figures, to activate their personal
characteristics, to motivate their actions and interactions. We
need only stress here the principal Figures among these feminine
Angels of the Avesta, insofar as their relationship with the
Sophianic mystery of the Earth is concerned. As for the accom­
plishment of this mystery, we have just defined it as consisting,
in the case of the human being, in becoming invested with
Spendarmatrkth, that is with the "Sophianity" of Spenta Armaiti­
Sophia. This investiture is necessary in order to verify (make
true ) a twofold teaching relating to the feminine Archangel of
the Earth; on the one hand, that it is she regarding whom the
Mazdean believer is taught to profess from the age of fifteen:
"I am the son of Spenta Armaiti," and, on the other hand, that
it is she who is the "mother" of Dal!nl\-Anima. This is to say
that the "maternal'' relationship of Spenta Armaiti with the
human being finally culminates in a fulfillment wherein it is then
equally true to say that Dal!nl\ is engendered in him, or to say
that he is himself engendered in Daenl\. Thus the relationship
with the Mother-Archangel of the Earth is fulfilled on the
eschatological horizon, and the other feminine Angels cooperate
in this fulfillment. Let us try briefly to indicate the process as it
appears to us, pointing out that it would certainly be necessary
to meditate on it at greater length than we can here.
To assume Spendarmatrkth means that the human being will
exemplify in his person the mode of being of Spenta Armaiti as
the feminine Archangel of the Earth and of earthly existence,
that is, of the present mode of being of the incarnate Fravarti.
We can discover what such an "assumption" implies and what
makes it possible, both from a study of the features that define
the person of Spenta Armaiti herself, and from the rough sketch
of a mystical anthropology that outlines the interiorization or
S8

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
appropriation of the attributes conditioning rebirth in the celes­
tial state. Mental iconography attributes features to the person
of Spenta Annaiti that relate her closely to Sophia considered
as master craftsman of Yahweh's Creation.87 She is the daughter
of the "Lord Wisdom," she is the "mistress of his house" and the
"mother of his creatures,"88 she is the Dwelling place: "We offer
this liturgy to thee who art the very Dwelling place, Spenta
Annaiti."88 Of course, the invocation is addressed neither to a
building nor to telluric matter. It is addressed to the one who
precisely is the "mistress of the Dwelling place," and to live
there oneself is to assume toward the dwelling place a mode of
being and responsibility confonning to the hierurgic and provi­
dent action of the feminine Archangel in whose regency and
care it is. That in itself defines not a spatial relationship, but a
personal one, the relationship thanks to which the task of the
incarnated Fravartis is carried out, that same task which Spenta
Annaiti fonnulated directly to Zarathustra in the course of a
confidential conversation. 80
A few indications allow us to glimpse therefore how the
Sophianic nature of Spenta Annaiti is developed in the inner­
most being of the Ohnnazdian human creature. It is said that of
the three Amahraspands or feminine Archangels: "The creatures
of Ohnnazd possess life through Khordlt (the Archangel of
aquatic nature ) , immortality through Amertlt (the Archangel
of vegetal nature) , perfect thought ( bavandak menishnih )
through Spenta Annaiti.''৙1 As perfect thought, thought of
quietude and gentleness, meditative Imagination and silent
Meditation,82 the Archangel Spenta Annaiti's antagonist is the
Archdemon Taromati (unruly thought, violence, uproar, op­
pression ) . And this perfect mental activity ("perfect thought
under the pure gaze of love") defines the Sophianic nature of the
"daughter" of the God of Light. When the believer assumes this
Spendannattklh,88 and reproduces in himself that thought of
wisdom which is the essence of the Angel of the Earth, he causes
Spendannat, the daughter of Ohnnazd, to exist in his own per­
son. He is the child, not just of the Earth Mother, but of the
feminine Angel of the Earth, that is, he causes the celestial
:m

I. M azdean Imago Terrae
Earth, the "house" of which Spenta Armaiti is the "mistress" to
open up in himself. To the same degree that this meditation of
wisdom is the organ of the birth of the celestial Earth, it becomes
true to say that, for every Mazdean soul, Spenta Armaiti is the
mother of its Daena, that is of its celestial "1," the Imago Animae,
the mirror reflecting its own transfiguration, its geosophia, in the
Imago Terrae.
This process in which Sophianic meditation brings the soul to
its celestial "I" can be followed further thanks to the vestiges of
a mystical physiology, so hard to trace in Mazdeism that no heed
is paid to it, the more precious for this reason. "In the vital
energy of the human being, there is a Thought: therein Spenta
Armaiti abides. In this Thought there is a Word: therein abides
Ashi V anuhi (the feminine angel who is Daena's sister) . And
in this Thought, there is an Action: therein abides Daena."94
A triad of feminine Archangelic Powers is interiorized on the
plane of this sacrosanct trilogy of Zoroastrianism (Thought,
Word, Action) .  In conformity with homologous sequences, just
as realized action or professed thought gives body to the inner
thought, so is Daena the celestial figure who appears to the
mental vision to the extent that the soul realizes and activates
in itself the Sophianity of Spenta Armaiti, which means that
meditation or "perfect thought" is the organ that gives birth to
the celestial "1," or that Spenta Armaiti is the "mother of
Daena." Therefore this perfect thought, the active Imagination
of the celestial Earth, is not a "fantasy"; it is a power capable of
"substantiating" and "vivifying." This is because in the human
being it is the seat of a Power which, as it has rightly been
pointed out, is homologous to that other figure called, in Mani­
cheism, Mater Vitae, Mater Viventium, Mother of Life or
Mother of the Living.95 Therefore the Sophianic form of Maz­
dean devotion to the Angel of the Earth ultimately tends to
cause the opening up in consciousness of that archetypal Image
which depth psychology calls Anima, and which is the secret
presence of the Eternal feminine in man. 96
For a right understanding of the activation of this Image, the
preterrestrial dramaturgy to which we previously alluded must

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
be present in thought: the prologue in Heaven, the choice
offered to the human Fravartis ("those who have chosen") :
either to remain inviolate in the celestial world, or else to descend
to Earth and do battle there for the world of the Angel. And
that is indeed the paradox. The Fravartis are the celestial arche­
types and tutelary angels, the Guides of all beings, both Celestial
and Terrestrial. What does it mean then, if the human Fravartis
(representing Ohrrnazdian humanity) incarnate themselves on
earth? Is the essential dualitude which conjoins two beings of
light thereby abolished? Although this problem has hardly been
meditated (it is of so little interest to historical science as such ) ,
the amplification offered by its solution can be based with cer­
tainty on the data which emerge on the level of Mazdean con­
sciousness. In fact, the incarnate Fravarti, the Angel-soul that
has given up its "celestial" condition to confront the horror of
Ahrimanian humanity, is not alone: the soul in its terrestrial
condition, making common cause with all the beings of light,
wages at their side its "battle for the Angel." The "Angel" is
simultaneously its faith and its judge, its existence and its super­
existence, its celestial paredros. This fact will be revealed to the
soul only post mortem, and that is why Daenҫ, the Angel of the
incarnate soul (for which the Fravarti, having come "to Earth,"
has chosen to answer) ,  is also called ra'Viin-i riih, "the soul on
the path," that is, the Anima coelestis which the Anima humana
meets "on the path" to the Chinvat Bridge. 97
And this is why the soul has its prevision (see above, § 3 ) ,
in the annunciatory dawns of the visionary landscape in medio
mundi, on the peak from which projects that Chinvat Bridge,
with Daenҫ standing at the entrance to facilitate the passage
of the being whose Anima coelestis she is. She herself is another
figure exemplifying the archetypal Sophia; she is, likewise, the
daughter of Sophia; she has also been compared more than once
to the figure of Sophia in the Old Testament,98 where Wisdom
is the daughter of Yahweh and the master craftsman of his crea­
tion, appearing as a splendid maiden to whom every youth with
an ardent desire for knowledge plights his troth.99 Or with
equul juMtificntion, ns hn!i been pointed out, there is an analogy
4 1

I. M azdean Imago Terrae
with the Kore of Hermetism, as well as with the "Virgin of
Light" of Manicheism and of the gnostic book Pistis Sophia.100
The very name of Daena brings together several aspects that
should not be fragmented or opposed to one another, but should
be recaptured in the unity of her "Person."101 Etymologically
(Avestan day, Sanskrit dhi ) ,  she is the visionary soul or the
visionary organ of the soul, the light it throws and which makes
it possible to see, and at the same time the light that is seen, the
celestial figure that comes face to face with the soul at the dawn
of its eternity. Dat!nl is the vision of the celestial world as it is
/wed, that is, as religion and professed faith,102 and for that very
reason it is the essential individuality, the transcendent celestial
"I." By the conjunction of these two aspects or ideas in her per­
son, she proclaims that realization unfailingly corresponds to
faith. In this sense, because she is the archetype, the guardian
Angel who guides and inspires the life of the believer, she is also
his judge,108 she who reveals to him the degree to which his
earthly existence has satisfied the most personal law of his being,
in the living expression of it. When the soul in amazement asks,
"Who are you?" the maiden, more resplendent than any beauty
ever glimpsed in the terrestrial world, moves toward the entrance
of the Chinvat Bridge and answers: "I am your own DaenA,"104
which means: I am in person the faith you have professed and
she who inspired it in you, I am she for whom you answered and
she who guided you, who comforted you and who now judges
you, for I am in person the Image set before you since the birth
of your being and the Image which, finally, you yourself desired
("I was fair, thou hast made me fairer still") . That is why
Daena is also X varnah, personal Glory and Destiny, and as
such is "thine Aeon, thine Eternity."105 It is not in the power of
a human being to destroy his celestial Idea; but it is in his power
to betray it, to separate himself from it, to have, at the entrance
to the Chinvat Bridge, nothing face to face with him but the
abominable and demonic caricature of his "I" delivered over to
himself without a heavenly sponsor.
And Daena-Sophia has "sisters," who are, as it were, her
prefigurations, mediators, and heralds, from the point of view of

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
the ideal sequence in which visionary events are ordered. There
is the Angel Chisti, celebrated in Yasht XVI, which is specifi­
cally dedicated to DaenA. Her name, too, conveys the idea of an
active Light which illuminates and reveals a Form of Light. It
is she who confers on each being the faculty of vision, particu­
larly on the participant in the liturgy, who by her is enabled to
see and penetrate the meaning of the words and gestures of the
Ritual. As it is recalled in the Y asht (strophe 2 ) : "Zarathustra
sacrificed to her, saying: 'Rise from thy throne, come from the
Abode of Hymns, 0 most upright Chisti, created by Mazda
and holy.' " In the liturgy consecrated to DaenA, it is therefore
Chisti who reveals her presence in mental vision as mediatrix
for her "sister" and as the performer of this liturgy.108 She carries
the oblations, she is the priestess in person. Since it is she who
confers vision, she herself therefore is the vision that defines
the features of her iconography: tall and slender, clothed in white
and herself white.107 She gives to the Zoroastrian trilogy its
truly sacro-liturgic meaning of "thought, word, action," and that
is why DaenA, having her center or "seat" (cf. n. 94 above ) in
the human being, in the holy action activated by meditative
thought ( Spenta Armaiti ) , is visualized in the person of her
"sister," her mirror-image, whose features correspond to what
is experienced and lived in the course of the liturgical action.
This action places man in £rAn-Vej, in medio mundi, where
heavenly beings and earthly beings can communicate. As the
Angel of the liturgy, Chisti is thus the mediatrix of her sister
DaenA, that is, the one who causes the liturgical action to become
vision and anticipation of the eschatological meeting.101
The squl is again invited to experience a similar intuitive
anticipation by DaenA's other sister, the Angel Ashi Vanuhi, who
also, in the trilogy of powers described above, serves as media­
trix between Spenta Armaiti, whose "daughter" she is, and
DaenA, whose "sister" she is. Her attributes resemble theirs: she
also is "Ahura Mazda's daughter, the sister of the Archangels";100
she takes on the form of a proud and beautiful maiden, her girdle
tied high ,  pure, noble,• and invincible.110 Not only do the features
of her iconography reproduce those of the other feminine Angels

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
(Daena, Ardvi Sura) ,  thus exemplifying the same archetypal
Image, but she, like Ardvl Sura, assumes the prerogative of
extraordinary precedence, since Ohrmazd himself, Lord of the
Amahraspands and of all the Y azatas, offers sacrifices in £ran­
Vej both to her and to Ardvi Sura (as possessors and dispensers
of Xvarnah ) .111 In £ran-Vej, that is in media mundi, Zara­
thustra also meets the Angel Ashi Vanuhi. This event is strik­
ingly described in Yasht XVII. The Angel-Goddess, driving her
chariot of Victory, is invoked as all-powerful and as herself
possessing Xvarnah. This Iranian Gloria Victrix is indeed the
sister of the Nike of Greek statuary (those "Victories" who,
principally owing to gnostic influence, were the origin of the
first representations of the Angel in early Christian iconogra­
phy) . Then, erect on her triumphal chariot, she invites Zara­
thustra to approach, to mount and sit beside her: ''Thou art
beautiful, 0 Zarathustra, thou art very fair . . . to thy body
X varnah is given and to thy soul lasting bliss. Behold, thus I
proclaim it to thee."112
Thus, the Angel Ashi Vanuhi possesses and bestows Xvarnah,
the Light of Glory, but at the same time she herself also is the
Victory, the victoria} Fire. In her person are concentrated the
significance both of Glory and of Destiny, the Aura Gloriae of
a being of light. Thus Mithraism took her as -rVx'l (in the sense
of Fortuna Victrix, Gloria-Fortuna ) .113 To meet Ashi-Vanuhi in
£ran-Vej, to be invited to sit at her side on her chariot of victory,
is indeed the psychic event which at the same time anticipates,
prefigures, and makes possible the meeting post mortem with
her "sister" Daena, Glory and Destiny having been fulfilled. She
is the Imago Victrix of the soul, its sacralization by Xvarnah,
the revelation of its celestial archetype. The vision in £ran-Vej
prefigures the dawn rising on the Chinvat Bridge, and that is
why the Pahlavr tradition recognizes Ashi Vanuhi, sister of
Daena-Sophia, as herself being the Spirit of Wisdom that guides
the beings of light toward "perfect existence," that is "para­
disal"114 existence. She is also called "the Angel of the paradisal115
abode," an "assistant" of Spenta Armaiti, who is "our Abode."
At this point, then, the conjunction takes place of the destiny

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
of the soul-the Fravarti incarnated in terrestrial existencেand
the destiny of that terrestrial Earth to which it came solely in
order to help Ohrmazd and the Powers of Light to save the Earth
from the demonic Powers. Ashi Vanuhi is the Angel who
radiates Xvarnah, the Light of Glory; but this radiation ever­
lasting, that is to say, the perdurable radiance thus restored by
vision, now becomes that other feminine Angel who is called
by the name Arshttit.110 In her person she is the Imago Gloriae
reflecting to the soul the Image of an Earth transfigured into
the image of the soul that transfigures it. To understand the
mental dramaturgy dominated by the figure of the Angel
ArshtAt, let us remember the eschatological implications of the
Image of X varnah. In Yasht XIX we hear celebrated the crea­
tures who are to come from the world of light and, in the form
of Saoshyants, renew earthly existence, making it an existence
with the nature of Fire, when all creatures will possess an in­
corruptible body of luminous Fire.117 But that is an event toward
which all creatures of light are working now, in the present.
This work and this event were the very reason, from the begin­
ning, for the choice and the battle of the Fravartis. The creatures
of light receive their capacity to fulfill or to anticipate this meta­
morphosiৈ precisely thanks to the victorial Fire whose radiance
embodied in beings is called by the personal name of the Angel
ArshtAt.
The prevision of this final Transfiguration (Frashkart ) ,  the
consciousness of belonging to the creatures of light who work
together for it in every moment of the Aeon, are perceptions
which, like the visionary geography of the landscapes men­
tioned above, bring into play, not simple physics originating in
sensory perceptions, but a visionary physics. This transfiguring
energy of which the Imago Gloriae is the source and organ,
envelopes the whole of the soul. Perception of the Fire of earthly
Glory proclaims the radiance of a spiritual Fire bringing the
soul to incandescence, to the Light of saving knowledge (gnosis),
introduces the soul to the Earth of Light, and to all the beings
composing its own world, the world for which it is answerable.
Thut iH why the figure of Duena, the light of knowledge and the

I. M azdean Imago Terrae
Imago Animae,118 is sometimes substituted for that of the Angel
Arshtlt. And that is also why at the "judgment" which is the
confrontation of the soul with the celestial archetypes for which
it had to answer on earth, the Angel Arshtlt stands at the side
of Zamylt, the Dea terrestris, at the "weighing" of the soul, both
of them assisting the Archangel Amertlt. 119
For this confrontation causes the soul to ask: with what
"weight" did it weigh its own X varnah which was for the trans­
figuration of being? To what degree was it itself a Saoshyant,
thus fulfilling the vow of its own prayer: "May we be among
those who are to bring about the Transfiguration of the Earth"
( Y asna XXX, 9 ) . If Arshtlt and Zamylt are the "judges" of the
soul before Amertat (Immortality) ,  so, by the same token is
their sister Daenl. The outcome of the struggle is either trans­
figuration or demonic disfiguration. To make the image of the
Earth translucid to the figure of the Angel in an angelomorphic
vision such as Fechner's, the form of the Angel must flower in
the soul itself. Now therein consists the birth of the soul to
Daenl, to its celestial "1," and we have already indicated how,
in this individual eschatology, the ultimate meaning of the pro­
fession of faith is fulfilled: "My mother is Spenta Armaiti, the
Archangel of the Earth." Here is where we begin to see how
Zamyat, the Angel of earthly Glory, glimpsed in the flame of
the dawn on the mountain tops of the landscapes of Xvarnah,
is not simply a "doublet" of Spenta Armaiti. Zamylt is only
"visible" to the soul in which and by which it becomes true that
Spenta Armaiti is the "mother" of Daenl-Sophia. Giving birth
to the celestial "I" and the Transfiguration of the Earth form the
cycle of what we have tried to describe here as a "geosophy."
Therefore, from this "geosophy" fulfilled by the feminine
Angels of the Earth, the Mazdean religious Imagination shaped
a mytho-history, in which the vision of the Archangel of the
Earth engendering a human being, still preterrestrial, already
typifies the supernatural generation of the Savior, the final
Saoshyant to come, in the name and work of whom every Fra­
varti participates through its own struggle.
GayOmart, the primordial Man, was created in F.rlln-Vej, on

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
the banks of the river Dlitl in the center of the world. When
Ahriman succeeded in getting Death to penetrate him, Gayomart
fell on his left side, and, since his body was composed of pure
"metal," the absolute metal constituting the metallic totality,
seven metals emerged from his body, each proceeding from the
member to which it corresponded. The anthropogony that forms
a bridge between the cosmic significance of primordial man and
speculations concerning the microcosm, brings out very clearly
the correspondence of the metals with the parts of the human
body. Besides this, it gives an essential definition: Gold, as the
eighth metal, and because of its preeminence, issues from the
very soul (Xvarnah ) of Gayomart and from his seed. Gold,
exalted by its nobility above all other metals, symbolizes here
with the essential "1," the soul, which is super-added to the indi­
vidual "members" whose totality it dominates, and to which the
metals are respectively related. This Gold, as we know, is, in
the alchemical tradition, the symbol above all others of the filius
regius, of the "resurrection body," of the Self. Now, it is this Gold
that Spenta Armaiti gathered together. For forty years120 she
kept it, at the end of which time an extraordinary plant germi­
nated from the "soil"; this plant formed the first human couple,
Mahryag-Mahrylnag, two beings so like one another, so closely
united with each other, that the male could not be distinguished
from the female, much less isolated. On these two beings, or
rather on this still dual being, this androgyne, descended one
and the same Xvarnah, one and the same Light of Glory, one
and the same soul, which existed before the physical organism. 111
What is grasped in this vision is once again the Event of
pre-Adamic humanity (Adam-Eve, not yet Adam and Eve) .
Adamic humanity really only begins from the descendants of
Mahryag and Mahrylnag-when masculine and feminine, dis­
tinct from one another, will become two. Here again, the depths
of the profession of faith, its meaning, shines through: "I have
Spenta Armaiti as my mother, I hold my human condition from
Mnhryag and Mahryinag. "m The Earth that collects the "gold"
of Gnyomnrt is certainly not the earth of our ordinary physics,
hut the "perRon" of the Angel of the Earth, Spenta Armaiti.

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
Neither the categories of our geology, nor those of natural em­
bryology, are to be substituted for the mode of perception which
is here properly that of "geosophy." Neither is the human being
whom Spenta Armaiti conceives by her own son Gayomart123
man in our present human condition. He is the total human
being, still androgynous, Mahryag-Mahryiinag. However, since
Ahriman had caused Death to enter into Gayomart, the structure
of this total being, of this androgyne issuing from his Gold, that
is, from his soul or Self, of which Armaiti-Sophia is the receptacle
-this structure is unstable and fragile; it is not viable on the
Earth, which is the prey of demonic powers. Finally, by the scis­
sion of its internal dualitude, this being gives birth to its poster­
ity, historic humanity, the condition of which is the only one we
can experience, and whose emergence is therefore subsequent to
the great catastrophe, to the "day after," the invasion by "Evil."
The idea of a restored dualitude is expressed in the conjunc­
tion post mortem of the human being with Daenii, who is pre­
cisely the "daughter of Spenta Armaiti," just as the human
being in his prehistoric or supraterrestrial condition is her "son."
That is why the Event which took place in prehistory ( Spenta
Armaiti collecting the Gold or Self of Gayomart, of her own
son tainted by Death ) prefigures typologically the Event that is
the "denouement" of history, the threshold of metahistory. In
other words: when Spenta Armaiti becomes the mother of a
human being in the sense and to the very degree that she is the
mother of Daena, this "birth" refers to an eschatological con­
junction, such that the Sophianic mystery inscribed in the very
name of the Angel of the Earth, Armaiti-Sophia, is consum­
mated together with the general eschatology. Only then is the
profound meaning of the texts that present Ardvl Sora Aniihitii
as the "assistant," the coworker ( hamkar ) of Spenta Armaiti,
revealed.
It would be impossible truly to understand the myth of Gayo­
mart and to render justice to the Iranian mystery of the Anthro­
pos if one were to isolate the figure of Gayomart from its princi­
ple. Gayomart, Zarathustra, and the final Saoshyant represent
the beginning, the middle, and the end of Man and of the world

§4. Feminine Angels of the Earth
of Man subjected to "mixture."m Zarathustra is also primordial
Man, Gayomart redi'vivus, just as the last Saoshyant will be
Zarathustra redivivus, and just as Mazdean gnosis anticipates
the exaltation of Anthropos in the person of the Saoshyant. And
that is why the supernatural and virginal conception of the
Saoshyant, the prototype of a humanity finally redeemed from
death, represents, in relation to the "moment" of the person of
Zarathustra, a process homologous but inverse to the one which
brought forth from Gayomart, through the intermediary of
Spenta Armaiti, a humanity delivered over to the mortal condi­
dition. This c·ondition of historic humanity was heralded by the
scission of the total being, constituted by the Gold or Self of
Gayomart.
The image of the Saoshyant is therefore the antiphony of the
Image of the Anthropos ravaged by the demonic Powers. The
virgin birth, through a supernatural process, abolishes biological
laws, or rather transcends the physical meaning of phenomena
by going beyond the duality and opposition of masculine and
feminine: a single being takes on the function of both. Just as
the Gold issued from Gayomart was preserved by Spenta Armaiti
under the protection of the Angels of the Earth, so, not the seed
in the physiological meaning of the word, but the X varnah
(Gold ) of Zarathustra, his Aura Gloriae, was received by the
Angel Neryosang, and was entrusted by him to the Glory
(X varnah ) of the Waters, that is, to the Angel-Goddess ArdvJ
Stlrii Anahita, "the High, the Sovereign, the Immaculate." Here
also, the expectation of the Transfiguration of man and the Earth
can be perceived and expressed only in terms of a geosophy. The
Zarathustrian Glory is kept by Ardvl Sora "in person," mythi­
cally in the waters of Lake Kansaoya, from which emerges the
mountain of dawns, Mons Victorialis;125 a multitude of Fravartis
watch over it. At the end of the twelve millennia, when our Aeon
will come to an end, a maiden, acting as the earthly and visible
typification of Ardvl Stlrii in person, will enter the waters of the
mystic lake. The Light of Glory will be immanent in her body,
and Hhe will conceive "one who must master all the evil deeds
nf drmnnK nnd mcn."1 1" Thnt iH why the Vi rgin Mother, Eredhat

I. Mazdean Imago Terrae
Fedhri, is already herself hailed by the name Vispa Taurvairi
("the all-conquering") ,  the Omnivictrix. Therefore, Ardvt Sora
AnAhitA, preserving the X varnah of Zarathustra, from which
the hero of the final restoration ( apokatastasis ) is born, is indeed,
as the liturgy127 says, the "coworker" of Spenta Armaiti, keeping
the Gold issued from Gayomart; and Vispa Taurvairi is the
earthly Woman typifying both of them. Mazdean eschatology
also, like the Sophianic mystery of the Earth, is fulfilled by an
exaltation of Sophia.128
All this, of course, is fulfilled in £rAn-Vej (where Gayomart
died, where Zarathustra was born, where the Saoshyants will be
born, where the final Liturgy setting the world on fire will take
place ) ; and so this entire dramaturgy is itself perceptible only
in £rAn-Vej, at the center of the world, that is at the summit of
the soul.
We have heard Fechner grieve because in our day visions of
this nature are considered imaginary and unreal. Perhaps we
can appreciate today, even more than in the last century, philos­
ophies that did not confuse the Imaginary, or rather the Reality
corresponding to imaginative perception, with the unreal. Be­
tween a universe constituted by a pure physics and a subjectivity
which inflicts isolation on itself, we foresee the need of an inter­
mediate world to join one with the other, something in the nature
of a spiritual realm of subtle bodies. Such an intermediate world
was ceaselessly meditated, particularly in Islamic Iran, both
by the masters of $O.fism, the adepts of the Suhrawardian phi­
losophy of light, and the adepts of Shaikhism. This intermediate
world is no longer only the center of the world, like £rAn-Vej,
but the center of the worlds. The world of the Imaginable, of
imaginative Reality, the world of archetype-Images, is estab­
lished as mediator between the world of the pure, intelligible
essences and the sensory universe. This world is the eighth
keshvar, the eighth climate: the "Earth of the emerald cities,"
the mystical Earth of HurqalyA.

II THE MYSTICAL EARTH OF HORQALYA
1. Progressio harmonica: Fatima, Daughter of the
Prophet, and the Celestial Earth
Whoever is somewhat familiar with the organ knows what are
referred to as "stops." Thanks to these stops, each note can cause
several pipes of different lengths to "speak" simultaneously; thus,
besides the fundamental note, a number of harmonic overtones
can be heard. Among the contrivances that regulate them, the
progressio harmonica designates a combination of stops which
allows more and more overtones to be heard as one ascends
toward the upper register, until at a certain pitch the funda­
mental note also resounds simultaneously.
This is described very briefly and without any claim to tech­
nical accuracy, but for a definite purpose. It is just that this
phenomenon seems to us the parallel most helpful in under­
standing the subtitle of this bok: "From Mazdean Iran to Shrite
Iran." As a result of the connection which was effected between
the old Mazdean Iran and Shrite Iran-a connection in which
we shall have to pay special attention to the spiritual school that
has reactivated traditional Shrite gnosis in Iranian Islam since
the end of the eighteenth century-something like a progressio
harmonica takes place. The higher we "ascend," the more har­
monics we hear. Finally, the fundamental, which gave the pre­
ceding chapter its tonality, will become audible again.
The analogy suggested may at last enable us to understand
certain features of the spiritual history of Iran. So little study
has thus far been devoted in the West to the philosophy of
5 1

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalyii
Iranian Islam, whether Shl'ite or not, that those who specialize
in the study of ancient Iran, as well as specialists in Muslim
philosophy as such, sometimes seem surprised, if not annoyed,
when a connection is pointed out which till then was not seen
in their scheme. On the other hand, there are very few cultivated
Iranians who are insensitive to this connection. To succeed in
representing it adequately, we shall probably have to give up
certain of our customary categories that take only outer history
into account, where everything is studied with a view to dis­
covering major currents, deducing influences and causal ex­
planations, trying in all ways to reduce things to a common
denominator. If a phenomenon does not lend itself to such re­
duction to identity by way of cause and effect, if it refuses to fit
the preconceived label, one will readily be suspected of having
been led astray by some material that is not authentic. This is
what has made it so difficult to discuss spiritual facts as such,
especially those that took place in Iran, because spiritual facts,
as such, are discontinuous and irreducible; they do not succeed
one another in a homogeneous time; they are, each of them, their
own time.
We shall now consider briefly two of these "times." On the
one hand, the "time" of Suhrawardl, whose work, chronologi­
cally, belongs to our twelfth century. In it, the author pursues
the aim of reviving in Islam the wisdom, the theosophia, of
ancient Persia. His metaphysical outlook is dominated, on the
one hand, by the motif of the Xvarnah, the Light of Glory, and
by the Mazdean angelology through which he interprets the
Platonic Ideas; and, on the other hand, by the "time" of Shl'ism,
determined as to quality by the idea of the hidden Imam and his
parousia. This idea resounds like the harmonic of a fundamental
note that we have already heard in the Zoroastrian idea of the
eschatological Savior or Saoshyant. But neither Suhrawardl nor
the Shrites are Zoroastrians. They are and intend to remain in
Islam, in a spiritual Islam, to be sure, which is profoundly dif­
ferent from the legalistic Islam, the official religion of the major­
ity. If one is limited to the positive history of external things,
without knowing how to effect phenomenological reduction, how

§ 1.  Fiilima and the Celestial Earth
can one possibly give "historical" authenticity to a phenomenon
that expresses, in a given world, the values and reality of certain
perceptions received in a world that is foreign, even heterogene­
ous, to the former? Such an attempt will give rise to talk of
syncretism, dialectical conciliation, artificial transposition. And
that will be the end of it.
Our Spirituals, indeed, do not indulge in syncretism, nor do
they have to attempt dialectical conciliation, because they have
at their disposal a mode of perception different from the one to
which we have been reduced by our one-dimensional historical
consciousness. In the first place, they have at their disposal a
world of several levels, and it is exactly one of these levels that
the present bok is trying to describe and to situate. In the course
of this bok we shall come across the following expression by
one of our authors: "To see or perceive things in Hnrqalya."
Therein lies an allusion to the bringing into play of the faculty
of perception, which also and necessarily is available to these
Spirituals. The bringing into play of this faculty is designated
by the technical term ta'wil, which etymologically means "to
bring back". the data to their origin, to their archetype, to their
donor. For this, the same data must be recaptured at each of
the degrees of being or levels through which they had to "de­
scend" in order to reach the mode of being corresponding to the
plane on which they are evident to our ordinary consciousness.
This practice has the effect of causing these planes to symbolize
with one another.
Hence, the ta'wil is preeminently the hermeneutics of symbols,
the ex-egesis, the bringing out of hidden spiritual meaning. With­
out the ta'wil, Suhrawardl's Oriental Theosophy would not
exist, nor yet that spiritual phenomenon in general, namely
Shrite gnosis, by which the meaning of Islam is transfigured.
And conversely, there would be no possibility of a ta'wil without
the world of Hnrqalya, which we are at present studying; that
is, without the world of archetypal Images where that imagina­
tive perception functions and is able, by transmuting the material
data of external history into symbols, to penetrate to the inner
meaning . In short, this concern11 the "spiritual history" whose

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
events take place in HnrqalyA. Ta'wil presupposes the super­
position of worlds and interworlds, as the correlative basis for a
plurality of meanings in the same text.
This "technique," to be sure, was known at one time in the
West. There, however, it rapidly degenerated into an artificial
technique, but in fact for reasons which were extrinsic to its
nature and which distorted its practice, both because it was cut
off from the theosophia of which it is the correlative, and because
it was deprived of spontaneity by a dogmatic authority. Today,
in the eyes of the philologists and historians, it is thought of as
something artificial and negligible, if not unbearable. I do not
believe that there is any profit in discussion aimed at reconciling
the two points of view. Regardless of what happened to this
technique in the West, the fact remains that its practice in
Islamic theosophy (the l)ikma ilahiya ) has continued to be sup­
ported by quite other means, and to preserve its spontaneity. If
one does not understand from what it springs, all the spiritual
facts connected with it remain incomprehensible. The ta'wil,
without question, is a matter of harmonic perception, of hearing
an identical sound (the same verse, the same l)adith, even an
entire text) on several levels simultaneously. One hears or one
does not hear. But he who does not possess the inner ( "Hnr­
qalyan") ear cannot be made to hear what he who does possess
it is able to hear. Because, for that matter, the secret of the pro­
gression of chords, in harmony, depends upon the ta'wil of a
given chord.
Later in this book we shall read a few pages of Suhrawardt,
the young master who died a martyr at the age of thirty-eight
( 5 87 I 1 19 1 ) and who came later to be called the "Master of
Oriental Theosophy" (Shaikh al-IshrAq) 1 because his great aim
was the renaissance of ancient Iranian wisdom. We have already
mentioned his name and shall do so again·, since his work is of
such capital importance to our theme-the "Celestial Earth." In
the present context, we intend only to draw attention to a few
pages from his chief work, which explicitly mention the rank
and function of the feminine Archangel of the Earth under the
name that Mazdean hierosophy traditionally confers upon her,

§ 1. F aeima and the Celestial Earth
Spenta Armaiti. This name, in Middle Iranian or Pahlavi, be­
comes Spendarmat, which in modern Persian gives us IsfandAr­
muz. In the preceding chapter we were shown how the constel­
lation of the other Angels of the Earth were arrayed around her.
In the Suhrawardian doctrine, the schema of the spiritual
universes appears in broad outline as follows: from the first
"Victorial'' Light ( QAhir) , or first Archangel emanated from
the Light of Lights, whose traditional Mazdean name is Bahman
(Vohu-Manah ) ,  there issues a pleroma of innumerable beings
of light, pure intelligible Lights, quite independent of any mate­
rial body; this is the world of the Jabarat. From it there emanates
another pleroma of substances of light, some of which have to
take upon themselves the guardianship of a material species,
which is their "theurgy ," while the others have to fill the role
of Souls, which for longer or shorter periods animate a material
body. The first are the archetype-Angels or Angels of species,
among which the Zoroastrian Amahraspands are referred to by
name: Suhrawardl interprets the Platonic Ideas on the plane of
this angelology. The second are the Souls of the Spheres (Angeli
coelestes ) and human souls. These two categories together form
the world of Malakat, and the Earth of Malakat is the celestial
earth of HorqalyA.
IsfandArmuz figures among the Angels of the species. It is
significant and confirmative that Suhrawardl, in his turn, em­
ploys the characteristic old Iranian term by which, as we have
seen, the Avesta already designated the function of Spenta
Armaiti, namely the kad banil'iya, the function of the "mistress
of the house." As the Angel of the Earth, IsfandArmuz assumes
in particular the guardianship of the natural realms in which
the telluric element predominates, since the Earth is the "theurgy"
of its Angel. The Earth is "she who receives"; as the receptacle
of the influx and effects of the celestial Spheres, it assumes the
feminine role with respect to the masculine. This is one of the
themes which will be further developed by Suhrawardl's pro­
found commentator, ::;adruddrn ShirAzi (d. 1640, see below,
Part Two, Arts . 1, VI, and IX ) when he was teaching at Shiraz.
On the one hand, the relationship between the Earth as we

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalya
know it and the other Forms that are objects of sensory percep­
tion is analogous to that which exists between the ideal Earth,
that is, the Angel of the Earth, and the other separate substances
or Angels of species. This does not mean, of course, that we can
speak of "passivities" ( infi'aliit ) in the world of Intelligibles: the
femininity of the Angel of the Earth rests on the fact that she is
"the one who receives," the one in whom is manifested the multi­
tude of the effects and influences of the Cherubinic "active In­
telligences" according to an ontological gradation and an intel­
ligible structure, in the same way as, on this Earth, the effects
of the heavenly bodies of which these Intelligences are the motive
powers, through the intermediary of their Souls, are manifested
according to a chronological succession and a structure percepti­
ble to the senses. On our Earth, this is how the function of kad­
banu•iya is seen to make our Earth symbolize with its Angel,
Isfandiirmuz. 2
This simple example which we have chosen from amongst
others should suffice to show how the speculative theosophy of
Islamic Iran, from Suhrawardl in the twelfth century to ŀadrud­
dln ShirAzi in the seventeenth century ( and we should include
their successors up to the present day) , preserves and continues
to meditate the figure of the Angel of the_ Earth, whose person
the ancient Iranians had been taught by the Mazdean religion
to recognize. This figure, the Gestalt, has completely retained
its identity, even though the elements of the context have
changed. What is admirable is the power of the ta•wil of the
spiritual hermeneutics, which is able to give value to all the
symbols and "bring them back" to the archetype. This is the
initiatic function which spiritual Islam assumes, in the person
of the "master of Oriental theosophy," and his emulators.
That is not all. When we again find Suhrawardi using the
very name Isfandarmuz, the Angel of the Earth and the Sophia
of Mazdaism, we have no difficulty in recognizing her features,
since even the characteristic name of her function has been
carried over from the Mazdean liturgy into the Islamic, Neo­
platonic context of Suhrawardl. But it may happen that her
name is no longer pronounced, that a Figure with an entirely dif-

§ 1. Ftilima and the Celestial Earth
ferent name appears in an entirely different context, and that
nevertheless we can still identify the same features, the same
Gestalt. Let us take careful note, however, of the specific nature
of the spiritual phenomenon which is about to claim our atten­
tion. As it appears, we cannot simply say that this is a Figure
that is merely a new exemplification of the archetype personified
by Spenta Armaiti. On the height of the plane where we shall
be enabled to perceive this Figure, we should rather speak of an
archetype-Figure of the archetype, as though we were approach­
ing the peak of the progressio harmonica, and that there at last­
and only there-it were given to us to hear once more and
simultaneously the fundamental ·sound in the base. It is the
feminine Archangel of a supracelestial Earth, assuming the rank
and privilege of the divine Sophia, that it is suggested we may
perceive, on the level of the world of the lahut, the eternal reality
of the dazzling Fatima, daughter of the Prophet, as she is medi­
tated in Shrite gnosis, or more exactly, in that of the Shaikhr
school.
It is true, alas, that in the absence until now of a compre­
hensive work on Shrite doctrines, and especially those of
Shaikhism, to which we could refer, we may be suspected of a
too easy · acceptance of obscure allusions. Shrism-this word
comes from the Arabic shra and designates the community of
the adepts who follow the Imams of the Prophet's family­
Shrism, which for five centuries has been the form of Islam in
Iran, where from the beginning it had its centers of radiation,
is still very little known in the West. Too often, influenced by
contemporary fads, people reduce its origins to questions of
political succession. By so doing, they completely overlook the
important body of literature consisting of the conversations of
the first adepts with successive Imams until the ninth century
of our era. These conversations bear witness that the flowering
of Shrism was essentially the flowering, or rather the resurgence,
of gnosis in Islam (if one were to go back and study the origins
of the doctrines, one could not separate Twelver Shrism and
lsml'lll Shl'ism ) .  Shl'ite gnosis is preeminently the esotericism
of lalnm, and when it was mode the state religion by the
!i7

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
f>afavids in the sixteenth century, this resulted in the fonnation
of a kind of official clergy almost exclusively concerned with
jurisprudence. The chief effect of this ordeal was to render the
Iranian adepts of Shrite gnosis, even today, still more rigorous
in their practice of the "discipline of the arcanum."
While prophetology is an essential element of Islamic religion
as such, in Shrite theosophy it is divided into prophetology and
Imamology. Beside the prophetic function, which delivers the
message of the literal Revelation, there is the initiatic function,
which initiates into the hidden meanings of revelations, and
which is the function of the Imam. After the cycle of prophecy
( da'irat al-nubawa ) that ended with Mul,lammad, the "Seal of
the Prophets," there comes the cycle of Initiation ( da'irat al­
walaya ) , the present cycle, placed under the spiritual rule of the
Twelfth Imam, the hidden Imam, "present in the hearts but
invisible to the senses. "8
The Shaikhr school, which flourished at the end of the
eighteenth century under the stimulus of the lofty and strong
spiritual personality of Shaikh Al,lmad Al,lsa•r (d. 1826 ) , marked
an extraordinary revival of primitive Shrite gnosis. Its literature
is enonnous, for the most part still in manuscript. Here we can­
not even outline all the doctrines, but in the course of the follow­
ing pages we shall see how and why the theme of Ho.rqalya is
one of its essential themes. In it, the meaning of Imamology has
been closely examined in great depth (or height) .  The twelve
Imams who assumed the initiatic function subsequent to the
prophetic message of Mul,lammad, his person, and the person
of his daughter, Fatima, from whom the line of the Imams
originated, this pleroma of the "Fourteen Very-Pure" is under­
stood and meditated not only as regards the ephemeral appear­
ance on earth of their respective persons, but in the reality of
their precosmic eternal entities. Their persons are essentially
theophanic; they are the Names and the divine Attributes, that
which alone can be known of the divinity; they are the organs
of the divinity; they are its "operant operations." From a struc­
tural point of view, in Shrite theology, Imamology plays the
same role as Christology in Christian theology. That is why

§ 1. Fatima and the Celestial Earth
whoever has known only Sunnite Islam, is confronted in Iran by
something unexpected, and becomes involved in a dialogue the
richness and consequences of which are unforeseeable.
Thus, the twelve ImAms, in their theophanic persons, together
with the Prophet and the resplendent FApma, form the pleroma
of the "Fourteen Very-Pure"; when meditated in their substance
and their preeternal person, they assume a mode of being and a
position analogous to the Aeons of the pleroma in Valentinian
gnosis. As regards the subject of our concern here, namely, the
theme of the celestial Earth, the position and role of FAtima in
this pleroma now take on a predominant significance. In the
aforementioned schema of Suhrawardian "Oriental theosophy,"
we were shown how our Earth and its feminine Angel, Isfan­
dArmuz, ranked in the world of the archetypes, the world of the
Soul or Malakat. Thus, we had a threefold universe: the earthly
human world, which is the object of sensory perception; the
world of the Soul or Malakat, which is, properly speaking, the
world of imaginative perception; and the world of pure Cheru­
binic Intelligences, the Jabarat, which is the object of intelligible
knowledge.
In the Shrite theosophy of Shaikhism, another universe (as
in Ibn 'Arabi) ,  is superimposed on the above three universes:
the universe of the lahat, the sphere of the deity. But the charac­
teristic of Shrism and Shaikhism is to conceive this lahat ex­
plicitly as constituting the pleroma of the "Fourteen Very-Pure."
One might say that it allows us to hear the theme of the celestial
Earth, like all the other themes, in a still higher octave. Each
octave is a new world, a new beginning, where everything is
rediscovered, but at a different height, that is, in a higher mode
of being. This succession of octaves is what allows the ta'wil, or
spiritual hermeneutics, to be practiced authentically. Moreover,
in the transcendent Person of FAtima as a member of the su­
preme Pleroma, we shall be hearing something like the motif of
the supracelestial Earth; and through this supracelestial Earth,
we are led to the idea of a Shrite Sophiology, by which we shall
perceive afresh something that Mazdean Sophiology already per­
ceived in the person of the Angel of the Earth, but this time at

II. Mystical Earth of Hilrqalya
a new and higher level, since the progressio harmonica produces
the resonance of harmonics which until then had remained silent.
We shall summarize here a few essential pages of a great work
in Persian, in four volumes, composed, as well as many· others,
by the eminent Shaikh l:lajj MuQ.ammad Karim Khan Kirmant
(d. 1288/1870 ) ,• second in the line of succession from Shaikh
AQ.mad AQ.sl't as head of the Shaikht school. His "Spiritual
Directory" abounds in glimpses that are opened to the reader
thanks to his profound and original thought (the second part
of the present book, Art. x, contains a few pages from it) . In
order to understand the structure of the pleroma of Shrite theos­
ophy and the role in it played by Fatima,8 one must be guided
by the basic idea, of which we are constantly reminded in the
text, that all the universes symbolize with one another. Here
again we meet the Heavens and an Earth, but these are not the
Heavens and the Earth of our world, nor those of Malakflt, nor
those of Jabarat, but the Heavens and the Earth of that hyper­
cosmos which is the sphere of the Deity, the liihflt. The rhythm
that determines its architectonic structul'e is then developed in
the dimension of terrestrial time. To discover in this historic
dimension itself a structure which makes it possible to see the
succession as homologous to the structure of the pleroma-this
will be essentially the esoteric hermeneutic, the ta'wil; it will be
a discovery of the true and hidden meaning, the spiritual history
that becomes visible through the recital of external events. It
will mean to "see things in Hurqalya."
Clinging as we do in the West to the materiality of historical
facts, lacking which we fear to lose our foothold, it is perhaps
difficult for us to understand that the origin of all Islamic faith
and hope, as well as of the responsibility on which the conscience
of the believer is based, lies not in a fact of history, but in a fact
of metahistory-the preeternal pact concluded when the divine
Being asked the totality of human beings present in the Anthro­
pos, the celestial Adam: "Am I not your Lord?" ( A-lastu bi­
rabbikum? 7: 17 1 ) . We have already seen also that the Mazdean
faith and ethic are bnsed on a fact of mr.tt௣!liNtory : the Lord

§ 1 .  Fa#ma and the Celestial Earth
Wisdom's questioning of the Fravartis as to whether they were
willing to descend to earth, there to fight against the Ahrimanian
powers. But here there is still something more: the same meta­
historical event in which the spiritual history of the Adamites
originates is itself only the reappearance, on the plane of Adamic
humanity, of an Event that resounds from descending octave to
descending octave, but whose primordial scene. is the supreme
pleroma . . In fact, the interrogation encodes for the imaginative
perception the unfathomable mystery of the origin of origins.
Ibn 'Arabi suggests the approach to this when he declares that
the Divine Being was at one and the same time the questioner
and the respondent.
This question is, indeed, the key to the mystery of the pri­
mordial theophany, the revelation of the Divine Being who can
only be revealed to himself in another self, but is unable to recog­
nize himself as other or to recognize that other as himself, except
in that he himself is the other's God. The fact that the beings of
the supreme pleroma appeared in an order of ontological prece­
dence corresponding to . the order in which they answered the
primordial interrogation is a way, for the imaginative perception,
of deciphering the structure of the pleroma as the place of the
primordial theophany. Just as the· visible Heavens are created
by the contemplative acts of cherubinic Intelligences emanating
one from another, so the "heavens of the pleroma," in the sphere
of the liihut, are brought about by theophanic acts.
These theophanic acts coincide with the progressive differen­
tiation of the drops of the primordial ocean of being, that is,
of being given its imperative by the creative Esto.6 The vis
formativa, immanent in each drop, enables it to give the answer
that concludes the divine preeternal pact. Sibce the order of
ontological succession of the answers determines the structure
of the pleroma of the liihut, the result is that the hierarchy of the
Fourteen supreme spiritual entities will have its epiphany on
earth, at the time of the cycle of Mu}:tammadan prophecy, in the
succession of the persons who typify it, the "Fourteen Very­
Pure": the Prophet Mu}:tammad, Faʋima, his daughter, and the
twelve Imams.
6 1

II. Mystical Earth of Hii.rqalya
The first of the spiritual entities to answer is the first of the
beings, the "inchoate being," he who will have his sensory
manifestation on earth in the person of the Prophet MuQ.ammad.
This is why he is the supreme Heaven of the Pleroma, and the one
whose homologue in the astronomical Heavens is the Sphere of
Spheres, the Throne ( 'arsh ) , the Empyrean. After him, the
second of the eternal spiritual entities to answer is the one who
will be manifested on earth in the person of l:laιrat Amir7 (that
is, the First ImAm, 'Ali ibn Abi-'falib, a cousin of the Prophet
and the husband of FlǺima ) ; his homologue in the astronomical
heavens is the eighth Heaven, the Heaven containing the "for­
tresses" or constellations of the Zodiac, the Heaven of the Fixed
Stars ( Kursi) ,  the firmament. Therefore, the empyrean of the
pleroma is the Heaven of Prophecy ( nubawa ) ;  its firmament
is the Heaven of Initiation ( walaya ) .  By virtue of that, this
firmament is the Heaven of Integral Initiation; the First lmim,
in his theophanic person, recapitulates it in its totality.
However, the totality of the Heaven of the Initiation is a
conjunction of twelve Persons or primordial hypostases (the
astronomical homologues of which are the twelve signs of the
Zodiac ) , that is, of the spiritual entities that will be manifested
on earth as the twelve ImAms. Each of them has his distinctive
sign in the Zodiac of the pleroma, that is, in the coalescence
of the Initiation recapitulated in the heaven of the First lmim.
But each of them, according to his distinct ontological rank,
likewise produces his own Heaven. Two of them voice their
response, those two to which, on earth, will correspond that
pair of brothers, the young Imams, l:lasan and l:lusayn (prince
of martyrs) , the sons of 'Ali and of Fapma; these two entities
produce, respectively, the Heaven of the Sun and the Heaven
of the Moon of the supreme pleroma. Then comes the one whose
epiphany on earth will be the Twelfth Imam, the hidden Imam, 8
that is, the Imam of our time, whose person is to the Prophet
Mul}.ammad as the last Saoshyant, Zarathustra redivivus, is to
the prophet Zarathustra himself. Later the eight other Imams
utter their response in succession, in the order which in the
eternal Initiation will be symbolized astronomically by the other

§1. Fi#ima and the Celestial Earth
planetary Spheres and by those imagined in order to account for
the movements of the Moon.
Finally there comes the response of J:laιrat FAʋima to com­
plete the pleroma of the lahat and give it both its plenitude and
its foundation. Thus, she is the Earth of the supreme pleroma,
and this is why it can be said that on this ontological plane she
is more than the celestial Earth, she is the supracelestial Earth.
In other words the Heavens and the Earth of the pleroma of the
lahat are related to the Heavens and the Earth of Hurqalya,
about which there will be much to say later in this book, in the
same way as the Heavens and the Earth of HurqalyA are related
to the Heavens and the Earth of the sensory world. Or again,
the pleromatic person of FAҬima is to the celestial Earth of
. HnrqalyA as Spenta Armaiti is to the Mazdean Earth haloed by
the light of the Xvarnah.
No human being can have access to the vision of the supreme
pleroma; to do so, he would need to_ "catch up with" those
spiritual entities who are eternally "ahead" of the totality of
creatures. One single atom of the supracelestial Earth projected
into a million of our universes would suffice-because of its
beauty, its purity, and its light-to bring them into a state of
incandescent fusion. The beings of the pleroma of the lahat are
visible only in their apparitional forms, which are the receptacles
of their theophanies. Primordial, therefore, is the function of
the one who in person is the supracelestial Earth, the paradise
beyond paradise, to the same extent that the celestial Earth of
HnrqalyA is the Earth of theophanic visions. In other words, as
we shall see, without the person of FAҬima there would be neither
the manifestation of the ImAmate, nor lmAmic initiation. For the
pleroma of these entities of light is the very place of the divine
mystery. Their light is the divine light itself; their transparency
allows it to shine through, retaining none of it as their own
ipseity. Pure flaming crystals which the eye cannot gaze upon
because they manifest the illuminating Sun, these "Fourteen
Very-Pure" are not only the Friends and Loved Ones of God;
they are the very substance of pre-eternal Love; they are the
identity of love, lover, and beloved, that identity which all ҭnfts
(\˭

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
have aspired to live, and which, according to the Shrite Spir­
ituals, is inaccessible to anyone not initiated into the secret of
Imamology. This can explain, for example, their circumspect
attitude, that of Shaikhism, for example, toward non-Shrite
l;)nfism.
From this height, we reach a perspective in which the
Sophiology of Shaikhism will be developed. On this earth,
Fapma, the daughter of the Prophet, was the wife of 'Ali ibn
Abr-Talib, himself the Prophet's cousin. Their exemplary union
is the manifestation of an eternal syzygy originating in the
eternity of the pleroma of the lahut.9 The First Imam and
FaǺima are related to each other in the same reciprocal way as
the two first hypostases, 'Aql and Nafs, Intelligence and Soul,
or in terms more familiar to us (because they go back to Philo) :
Logos and Sophia.
The couple 'Ali-Fa#ma is the exemplification, the epiphany
on earth, of the eternal couple Logos-Sophia. Hence, we can
foresee the implications of their respective persons. The Logos
( 'aql ) ,  in Shaikhr doctrine is the hidden substance of every
being and of every thing; it is the suprasensory calling for visible
Form in order to be manifested. It is like the wood in which the
form of the statue will appear. Better still, it is like the archetypal
body, the inner astral mass of the sun, invisible to human
perception, in relation to the visible Form, which is its aura, bril­
liance and splendor. The maqiim (this word signifying state,
rank, degree, plane, also the pitch of a note in music )-the
maqam of Fapma corresponds exactly to this visible form of the
sun, without which there would be neither radiance nor heat.
And this is why Fa৉ima has been called by a solar name:
F ii#ma al-Zahra', the brilliant, resplendent FApma. The totality
of the universes consists of this light of FaǺima, the splendor of
each sun illuminating every conceivable universe.
So one could also speak here of a cosmic Sophianity, having
its source in the eternal person of FAǺima-Sophia. As such, she
assumes a threefold rank, a threefold dignity and function. For
she is the manifested Form, that is, the very soul ( nafs, Anima )
of the Imams; she is the Threshold ( bab ) through which the

§ 1 .  Faƌima and the Celestial Earth
ImAms effuse the gift of their light, just as the light of the sun
is effused by the form of the sun-which is its brilliant splendor
-not by the invisible substance of its "archetype-body." Thus,
in the second place, she is all thinkable reality, the pleroma of
meanings ( ma•ani) of all the universes, because nothing of what
is can be without qualification. Qualification and meaning are on
the same level of being as form, and form is precisely on the
level of being of the Soul, for it is the Soul-Sophia that confers
qualification and meaning. This is why the whole universe of
the soul and the secret of the meanings given by the Soul is the
very universe and secret of l;laǹrat FAʋima. She is Sophia, which
is to say divine wisdom and power, embracing all the universes.
That, lastly, is why her eternal Person, which is the secret of the
world of the Soul, is also its manifestation ( bayan ) ,  without
which the creative Principle of the world would remain unknown
and unknowable, forever hidden.
Or yet again: the ontological rank of the ImAms in their
eternal entity transcends all representation and perception, all
means of expression and designation by created beings, whereas
the rank of l;laǹrat FAʋima is the plane of their epiphany, because
the rank of her being is the very rank of the Soul for each degree
of being. Thus the degree of being of FAʋima-Sophia recapitu­
lates the whole of the degrees of knowledge, of gnosis, so very
completely that the rank of the respective preeminence of the
prophets in regard to their knowledge of God is measured by
their knowledge of l;laǹrat FA৊ma. Even those who were the
most eminent from among the hundred and twenty-four thousand
Nabis, those who, prior to Mul).ammad, were entrusted with the
mission of revealing a heavenly Book, even they are still below
the rank of FAʋima-Sophia, because it is she who is the source
of all their knowledge, revelations, and thaumaturgical powers,
for FAʋima-Sophia is the tabula secreta (lawİ maMil?: ) .
Indeed, according to tradition, Gabriel is the Angel of Revela­
tion and the Angel of Knowledge, the herald sent to the prophets.
But he himself receives the divine revelation, which he com­
municates to them, through the intermediary of three other
nrchangeht, Azrnel, Seraphiel , and Michael, who are the sup-
t\5

II. Mystical Earth of Hiirqalya
ports of the Throne. Only the Archangel Michael receives di­
rectly part of the knowledge concealed in the tabula secreta,
which indicates the rank itself and the position of Fapma-Sophia
as the heart of the transcendent spiritual world.
In the Qur'an there are verses whose complete meaning cannot
be understood except by means of the spiritual hermeneutic, the
Shrite ta'wil; for example, the verse (which we translate as re­
quired by this ta'wil ) in which God declares: "Yes, I swear it
by the Moon, and by the night when it retires, and by the dawn
when it rises, this Sign is one of the greater Signs, one of those
which warn human beings" ( 74: 35-39 ) .  This Sign among the
greater Signs is l:la=?rat FaǺima in the midst of the "Fourteen
Very-Pure."
After recapitulating the ontological prerogatives of l:laǹrat
FaǺima-Sophia with our eminent Shaikh, we can say of her
through whom earthly existence is transfigured into the dawn of
a supracelestial Earth, that she is the THEOPHANY. The theme
rises and expands to such magnitude that our Iranian Shaikh
(to whom, moreover, we are also indebted for a treatise on col­
ors ) reaches heights foreshadowed by Goethe at the conclusion
of the second Faust: an Eternally Feminine, preceding even
terrestrial woman because preceding the differentiation of male
and female in the terrestrial world, just as the supracelestial
Earth rules over all the Earths, celestial and terrestrial, and
exists before them. FaǺima-Sophia is in fact the Soul: the Soul of
creation, the Soul of each creature, that is, the constitutive part
of the human being that appears essentially to the imaginative
consciousness in the form of a feminine being, Anima. She is
the eternally feminine in man, and that is why she is the arche­
type of the heavenly Earth; she is both paradise and initiation
into it, for .it is she who manifests the divine names and attributes
revealed in the theophanic persons of the Imams, that is, in the
Heavens of the Pleroma of the lahat.
Here one begins to understand the resurgence of a theme of
primitive Shrite gnosis, more exactly of Isma1ll gnosis, in which
FaǺima is called Fa!ima Fa#r, FaǺima the Creator (in the mascu­
line ) .  Indeed, this suggests that we can perceive, at an extraor-

§ 1 .  Falima and the Celestial Earth
dinary height of resonance, the meaning of the name which the
Shrite faithful give today to ij:aǹrat ·FAtima. In FAtima they
hail the "queen of women." But in this context it suggests that
we look for its meaning far beyond and above the sexual differো
entiation which is the condition of earthly humanity, a meaning
that we have to translate by something like "sovereign of femi­
nine humanity" or "of humanity in the feminine." Indeed, we
have to take feminine as meaning, in the first place, the totality
of the beings of the universes of the Possible! All creatures have
been created out of the Soul itself, out of the Anima of the holy
ImAms; they issue from the "left side" of the latter, as Eve, the
Anima of Adam, was created from his left side, as the light of
the Sun consists of the manifested form and the qualifications
of the sun.
All creatures being formed from their soul, the ontological
status of the universe of creatures in rৌlation to the holy ImAms
as cosmogonic powers is a feminine status. In this sense the
twelve ImAms are the "men of God" alluded to in certain verses
of the Qur'An. But at the same time the ImAms, who inaugurate
on earth the cycle of Initiation into the hidden meaning of the
revelations, were created from the soul of the Prophet, or rather
they are the soul of the Prophet. This is indicated several times
in the Qur'An, as, fpr example, in the following verse: "He has
made wives for you out of your own souls" ( 16: 7 4 and 30: 20 ) .
In this sense, the ImAms are the "brides" of the Prophet. And
furthermore, since Initiation is nothing but the spiritual birth
of the adepts, in speaking of the "mother of the believers" in the
true sense, we should understand that the real and esoteric
meaning of this word "mother" refers to the ImAms. Indeed, this
spiritual birth is effected through them, and the following saying
of the Prophet refers to this: "I and •All are the father and the
mother of this community."
And so the twelve ImAms, as the instruments and effective
causes of Creation, are, on the one hand, the "men of God," and
masculine. But, on the other hand, and at the same time, they
are the soul of the Prophet, that is the Anima, the Feminine
BRpect or the Prophet through whom Initiation, that is, spiritual
()7

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
creation, takes place. Now we already know that the ontological
rank of the Soul and the reality of the Soul are the very rank and
reality of Fatima-Sophia. The Imams are masculine as agents of
cosmogony, since creation is their soul; as authors of spiritual
creation they are feminine, since they are the Soul and since the
Soul is Fatima. This, therefore, is why we read that Fatima is
the theophany of the supreme pleroma, and that is why the
theophanic and initiatic function of the holy Imams is precisely
their "Fatimic" degree of being (their fii#miya, which we faith­
fully translate as "Sophianity" ) , and this is how Fatima comes
to be called Fatima Fatir, Fatima the Creator.
Her functions symbolize with each other, from one universe
to the other: in the pleroma of the liihut, as the supracelestial
Earth which is its foundation; on the terrestrial Earth, as the
daughter and Soul of the Prophet and as the one from whom issue
those who in their turn are the Soul of the Prophet, the lineage
of the twelve Imams. She is the theophany and she is the Initia­
tion; she is majma• al-nurayn, the confluence of the two lights,
the light of Prophecy and the light of Initiation. Through her,
creation, from the beginning, is Sophianic in nature, and through
her the Imams are invested with the Sophianity that they trans­
mit to their adepts, because she is its soul. From this pleromatic
height we can distinguish the fundamental sound emerging from
the depths: namely, that which Mazdean Sophiology formulated
in the idea of spendar matikih, the Sophianity with which Spenta
Armaiti, the feminine Angel of the Earth invested the faithful
believer.
However, unlike what we found in the "Oriental theosophy"
of Suhrawardl, the name of Spenta Armaiti has not been men­
tioned in the passages we have just analyzed and commented
upon. Nevertheless, if our harmonic perception makes it possible
to discern spontaneously the chord produced by the Mazdean
Earth transfigured by the Light of Glory and the celestial Earth
transfigured in the person of Fatima-Sophia, this concordance
will be confirmed in another way.
It was made clear earlier ( Ch. 1 ,  § 4 ) how the link is formed
between Spendarmat, the Angel of tlw J4:nrth, amd the person of
6H

§ 1. Fii#ma and the Celestial Earth
the Saoshyants, the Saviors of whom the last one is destined to
carry out what in Zoroastrian eschatology is called the Trans­
figuration and Rejuvenation of the world (Frashkart ) :  the
apokatastasis, or restoration of all things to their primordial
splendor and wholeness, to the state in which they were until the
invasion of the Ahrimanian Counterpowers. Unfortunately, we
cannot attempt here a comparative outline that would follow
from the analogy suggested, on the one hand, by the relationship
between Mul)ammad, FAǺima, and the hidden ImAm-the one
whose parousia will also be a prelude to the apokatastasis---and,
on the other hand, by the relationship between Zarathustra, the
mother of the last Saoshyant and the last Saoshyant in person.
But what needs to be pointed out, however, is that in the volumi­
nous literature still produced nowadays in Shrite Iran, around
the traditional sources dealing with the hidden ImAm, there are
abundant references showing that certain Shrite theologians
have a direct knowledge of the Old and New Testaments of the
Bible, as well as of Zoroastrian eschatology. Already in the
seventeenth century, when QuǺbuddJn AshkivarJ, one of the
most outstanding pupils of Mrr Damld (the great master of
theology in the lųfahAn school ) was writing his spiritual history
in three cycles ( ancient Sages and prophets, figures of Sunnite
Islam, portraits of Shrite Islam ) , he stressed the identity of the
features that mark the Person of the Zoroastrian Saoshyant, and
of the attributes according to the Shrite faith of the Person of
the Twelfth, or hidden, Imam.
We also encounter passages of this kind in another Persian
work by the same eminent Shaikh, Mul)ammad Karim KhAn
KirmAnJ, from whose teaching we have just reaped such profit.
We are thinking especially of the pages in which the Shaikh
refers10 to one of the ecstasies of Zarathustra, in the course of
which Ohrmazd gives his prophet the vision of a tree with seven
branches, the shadow of which reached out to every place on
the Earth. The seven branches of the tree were made of gold,
silver, copper, bronze, lead, steel, and iron, respectively. Ohr­
mazd explains to Zarathustra the meaning of each branch: each
(as in the vision of Daniel ) symbolizes one of the great empires.

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalya
With the seventh branch, that is, the seventh period, in­
augurated by the reign of the 'AbbAsids (indicated by their
symbolic color, which is black ) , catastrophes follow in rapid
succession, among them the whirlwind descent of the Mongols.
But Ohrmazd consoles Zarathustra by announcing the advent of
the eschatological hero, BahrAm Varjavand, who will come from
the East, from Central Asia. Certain traditions specify that he
will come from the "city of the maidens" ( shahr-i dukhtariln ) ,
which lies in the direction of Tibet ( cf. above, Ch. 1 ,  n. 126 ) .
His name defines his person: Bahram is the Persian name for the
planet Mars (now we have already seen that in the heavens of
the pleroma of the lahat, the homologue of the Heaven of Mars
is the Heaven of the Twelfth lmllm ) ;  V arjavand means he who
possesses the power and sovereignty of the Light of Glory, the
X varnah.11 The homologation of the Zoroastrian eschatological
hero to the person of- the hidden lmllm, whose parousia bursts
forth as the sign of the Resurrection, goes back, as we have
just recalled, to much earlier Shrite theologians.
But other homologations can be made. The Zoroastrian hero
and the lmllm-Resurrector both have as their comrades in arms
not only those who, in one period or another, carry on for them
the battle of the spirit that brings closer the future of their reign,
but also those who, preserved in a mystical sleep, wait to rise
up with them when the time comes, and all those from the past
who will "return" for the final battle. For the Zoroastrians, for
example, there is Peshotfin, one of the sons of King Vlshtllspa
who protected Zarathustra and encouraged his preaching, and
for the Shrites, the First lmllm in person. These are two great
figures of "spiritual knights" ( javanmardan) whose identical
eschatological role justifies the homologation suggested by our
Shaikh.
However, let us stress the fact that our authors are thinking
not in terms of "historical currents" or "influences," but in the
form of cycles, taking into account both the schema of universes
symbolizing with one another and also the schema of periods of
spiritual history. Thus the homologated forms do not have to be
reduced to the same homogeneous time; each of them i11 their

§ 1. Fatima and the Celestial Earth
time. And that is precisely why they are typifications and why
they can rightly be homologated to one another, and why each
personage has his homologue in each cycle. To make the
Saoshyant homologous to the hidden ImAm is not, as we would
doubtless tend to make it, a matter of weighing influences in
pointing out currents, that is, in taking apart the entire mecha­
nism of external history in order to "explain" its identity by
bringing it back to a single plane. Far from it, for this way of
thinking in cycles demands a kind of harmonic perception; or,
again, the perception of a constant structure, just as the same
melody can be produced in different registers. Each time the
melodic elements are different, but the structure is the same­
the same melody, the same musical figure, the same Gestalt.
That is why the progression, which this mode of thought
makes it possible for us to conceive, is not a horizontal linear
evolution, but an ascent from cycle to cycle, from one octave to
a higher octave. A few pages from the same Shaikh, which have
been translated here (Part Two, Art. x, § 2 )  illustrate this. The
spiritual history of humanity since Adam is the cycle of prophecy
following the cycle of cosmogony; but though the former follows
in the train of the latter, it is in the nature of a reversion, a return
and reascent to the pleroma. This has a gnostic flavor, to be
sure, but that is exactly what it means to "see things in Hor­
qalyA." It means to see man and his world essentially in a vertical
direction. The Orient-origin, which orients and magnetizes the
return and reascent, is the celestial pole, the cosmic North, the
"emerald ·rock" at the summit of the cosmic mountain of QAf,
in the very place where the world of HorqalyA begins; so it is not
a region situated in the East on the maps, not even those old
maps that place the East at the top, in place of the North. The
meaning of man and the meaning of his world are conferred upon
them by this polar dimension11 and not by a linear, horizontal,
and one-dimensional evolution, that famous "sense of history"
which nowadays has been taken for granted, even though the
terms of reference on which it is based remain entirely hypo­
thetical.
Moreover, the paradise of Virna in which are preserved the
7 1

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalyii
most beautiful of beings who will repopulate a transfigured
world, namely, the V ar that preserves the seed of the resurrection
bodies, is situated in the North. The Earth of Light, the Terra
Lucida of Manicheism, like that of Mandeism, is also situated
in the direction of the cosmic North. In the same way, according
to the mystic 'Abd al-Karlm JJli ( cf. Part Two, Art. IV ) ,  the
"Earth of the souls" is a region in the far North, the only one not
to have been affected by the consequences of the fall of Adam.
It is the abode of the "men of the Invisible," ruled by the mysteri­
ous prophet Khiҩr. A characteristic feature is that its light is
that of the "midnight sun," since the evening prayer is unknown
there, dawn rising before the sun has set. And here it might be
useful to look at all the symbols that converge toward the
paradise of the North, the souls' Earth of Light and the castle
of the Grail.
Now we must try to understand how our texts unfold to show
us this Earth of Light as the Earth of Visions and the Earth
through which the resurrection of the bodies or, more exactly,
the apparition of the "spiritual bodies," takes place. But as re­
gards this world, described to us as the world of archetype­
Images and the world of the soul, we had to have an idea who
was its soul. By guiding us to the higher octave, to the pleroma
of the lahut, Shaikhl theosophy has shown us how FllҰima-Sophia
is the supracelestial Earth, because she is the Soul, the Anima
or manifested form of the supreme pleroma.
As our authors gradually help us to enter into the "eighth
climate," we shall also be learning how the Anima substantiva
of the adept, his "spiritual body," is the Earth of his Paradise.
Now this Earth of Hurqalyll is where the hidden Imllm lives at
the present time. Consequently, we shall begin to see the bond
of mystical exemplification that associates the soul and person
of the Shl'ite adept with FllҰima-Sophia, prime origin of the
Twelfth lmllm, and invests the adept with the Sophianic function
of Fllpma. For, as we shall learn, the parousia or manifestation
of the hidden lmllm is not an external event destined suddenly
to appear on the calendar of physical time; it is a disoccultation
that gradually takes place as the pilgrim of the spirit, rising

§2. The "Eighth Climate"
toward the world of HurqalyA, brings about the event of the
awaited ImAm in himself. The whole of the spirituality of Shrism
is based on this, as it will become clear to us on reading the fine
passages from the wri'tlngs of Shaikh SarkAr AghA given in
translation in the second part of this book and which were pre­
cisely selected to help us understand why HurqalyA is the Earth
of Visions and the Earth of Resurrection.
2. The "Eighth Climate"
The historian Tabarl (ninth century ) has preserved for us some
of the earliest information available about a mysterious region,
which his description enables us to identify as the "Earth of the
Emerald Cities." Two cities are situated there--Tabar11A and
JAbalqA13-to which the traditions we shall study here add a
third city, Hurqalya; the name Hurqalya is then used to desig­
nate this mystic country as a whole. I regret not being able yet
to provide a satisfactory etymology for these names; leaving
aside several plausible hypotheses, we shall simply conform here
to the traditional pronunciation still in use today in Iranian
spiritual circles.
JAbar11li and JAbalqa, TabarJ tells us, are two emerald cities
that lie immediately beyond the mountain of QAf. Like those of
the Heavenly Jerusalem, their dimensions express quaternity,
the symbol of perfection and wholeness. The surface of each is
a square, the sides measuring twelve thousand parasangs. The
inhabitants do not know of the existence of our Adam, nor of
Iblrs, the Antagonist; their food consists exclusively of vegeta­
bles; they have no need of clothing, for their faith in God makes
them like the angels, although they are not angels. Since they
are not differentiated by sex, they have no desire for posterity.u
Lastly, all their light comes to them from the mountain of Qaf,
while the minerals in their soil and the walls of their towns (like
those of the archetypal paradise of Virna ) secrete their own light.
This indication already puts us on the way to establishing the
identity of the mountain with the mysterious cities. It is said, in
fuct, thut in this mountui n "tlu্re i11 neither sun, nor moon, nor
7!1

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
stars." Now we know that in the Ptolemaic system a character­
istic of the ninth Sphere, which comprises the totality of the
celestial Spheres and communicates diurnal movement to them,
is that it is a heaven without constellations.11 Moreover, tradi­
tions specifically describe the mountain QA£ as the mountain
surrounding our universe and as formed entirely of emerald, the
reflection of which produces the green color (which to us looks
blue) of the celestial vault.18 Or again, it is the rock (akhra )
forming the keystone of the celestial vault and imagined as being
composed of emerald and as casting a reflection on the mountain
of Qllf. What the visio smaragdina perceives here is, therefore,
the cosmic mountain encircling and overhanging our earthly
habitat; the cosmic mountain was also what was perceived as
encompassing the visible horizon of :Erlln-Vej, in medio mundi,
at the very place where the Chinvat Bridge projected from a
high peak to join this cosmic mountain, whose ascent led the soul
to the realm of infinite Lights.
Now the geographer YAqllt expressly affirms that the moun­
tain of QAf was once called the Elburz.17 Indeed, it is the very
same ৎontain which is the "mother" of all the mountains of
the world; they are connected to it by subterranean branches and
veins. And it is also the one climbed by the pilgrims of the spirit
--as in Suhrawardi's "Recital of the Occidental Exile," for ex­
ample-to reach the emerald rock looming before them like the
translucent side of a mystical Sinai. And there, as at the entrance
to the Chinvat Bridge of the Mazdean dramaturgy of the soul,
the meeting with the archetypal Figure takes place, the celestial
Person from whom the terrestrial "I" originates.18 Therefore,
the mountain of QAf marks the boundary between two worlds,
the one visible and the other invisible to the senses. In order to
penetrate into the cities hidden on its further side, the mystical
pilgrim must have passed beyond the evidence of the senses and
common norms, must have faced the ordeals symbolized by the
long journey in the Darkness across the distances that separate
him from the Earth of the emerald cities.19
Of course, insofar as the mountain of QAf only lends its name
to the ancient Elburz, its primordial Image hnN been projected

§2. The "Eighth Climate"
also on spaces of empirical geography (the Caucasus and its
foothills on Iranian soil ) ,  which then become the theater of
mythical events. On the other hand, as a primordial Image, it
always marks the extremity of the world, and is inaccessible to
men. To reach it, it would be necessary to walk for four months
"in the Darkness"; that is why Alexander's progress through the
region of Darkness is that of the archetypal spiritual hero, in
Avicenna's "Recital of J:layy ibn Yaqǹln," as well as in the ex­
egesis of the Qur'Anic Sura 1 8 : 84, describing how Alexander's
Quest led him to the extreme Occident and the extreme Orient
of the universe. Beyond, a region begins that includes many
other cities ( a  country white as silver, forty days' travel in
length, inhabited by angels; another country, of gold, seventy
countries of silver, seven countries of musk, each ten thousand
days' journey in length and breadth, etc. ) . In short, to penetrate
into these Earths is to gain access to the intermediate climate
of the "celestial souls" that move the Spheres and are preemi­
nently endowed with pure Imagination, not depending on the
senses. It is the "eighth climate," into which, as into :£ran-Vej,
one does not penetrate with the organs of sensory perception, but
by passing through the "Source of Life," at the psycho-cosmic
center.
Here we find our direction in a brief reference to the schema
of the world that takes definite shape in Avicenna's cosmology.
This schema divides the totality of thinkable being into a cosmic
Occident and a cosmic Orient. We have already recalled pre­
cisely that this cosmic Orient is not to be sought in the East on
our maps, but in the "polar dimension." In fact, this Orient is the
celestial pole, the "center" of all conceivable orientation. It is to
be sought in the direction of the cosmic North, that of the "Earth
of Light. "20
The "Occident" represents the sensory material world, and it
is twofold: there is the "climate" of sublunar terrestrial matter,
that of our material Earth, subject to generation and dissolution;
and there is the "climate" of celestial matter, that of the Spheres,
consisting of an etheric substance, diaphanous and incorruptible,
hut still, however, deriving from dte physical. The "Orient" be-
7!1

gins from the climate of the soul: at the celestial pole, at the
"emerald rock." There the spiritual Sun rises for the pilgrim,
and this dawn reveals to him the perspective of an entirely new
universe, wherein are ranked successively the souls summoned
to govern human bodies for a time; then the Souls whose mission
it is to communicate the movement of their desire and their
love to the celestial Spheres, and who are called celestial Angels
(Angeli coelestes ) ;  finally, the pure Intelligences, who are,
respectively, the objects of this love and what are designated spir­
itual Angels or Cherubim (Angeli intellectuales ) .  The charac­
teristic that distinguishes A vicenna's cosmology from that of
Averroes is precisely that the former includes in its structure this
world of celestial Souls, in whose image the human soul is con­
stituted, but which, unlike it, do not possess the organs of sensory
knowledge. On the other hand, they are endowed with active
Imagination. They even possess it in so pure and perfect a degree
that their Imagination, independent, unlike ours, of sensory data,
is entirely true and never weakened. Therefore, the representa­
tions that the Angels or celestial Souls may make of their uni­
verse correspond to the situation of the human soul when its
active Imagination, purified and trained, has become the lmagi­
natio -vera, its organ of meditation.
So what the soul shows to itself, in this case again, as in the
case of the Mazdean Imago Terrae, is precisely its own image:
the Earth it projects, the Earth of Ho.rqalyn, is the phenomenon
of the Earth in its pure state, since it directly reflects the Image
premeditated by the soul. The universe thus imagined, free from
misleading and perishable sensory data, is therefore a function
of the pure transcendental Imagination and depends only on its
categories, which are a priori archetypal Images. That is why
this universe is called 'iilam al-mithiil, the world of archetypal
Images, the world of autonomous imaginative forms, or again,
the world of correspondences and symbols, that is, a world
symbolizing with the sensory, which it precedes, and with the
intelligible, which it imitates. It is a mixed world, media৓ing
between the sensory and the intelligible; it is the center of the
worlds, or again the "intermediate Orient," between the "near

Orient," which is the human soul rising to consciousness of itself,
and the spiritual "far Orient," constituted by the pleroma of
cherubic Intelligences. Thus, as pictured by our Spirituals in
their own way, it represents this intermediate kingdom between
pure matter and pure Spirit, an intermediary necessary in order
to validate the visionary events, the entire dramaturgy of which
the soul is both the subject and the scene, everything that sensory
perceptions have no means to govern, impair, or supplement;
everything to which the scepticism of rational consciousness is
opposed, as it is to all essentially individual cases that can neither
be classified nor gauged by ordinary standards.
The premises and structural ·purpose of this intermediate
universe, this mundus archetypus, have so far been very little
analyzed.21 However, it fulfills an organic function in the scheme
of the world and in the inner experience to which a whole spirit­
ual tradition bears witness and from which, in Iran, we have
already selected the two moments of time most essential for our
purpose: in the twelfth century, the restoration of the philosophy
of ancient Persia (based on angelology and the Xvarnah, the
Light of Glory) , insofar as this was Suhrawardi's work; closer
to us, at the end of the eighteenth century, that spiritual school
born in an Iranian lmlmite milieu, which was the work of Shaikh
AQ.mad AQ.slt'I (d. 1 826 ) and his successors, and which is
usually called Shaikhism. We have outlined above the funda­
mental lmllmology professed by this school, which entirely re­
valorizes the gnosis already known in the esoteric circles of
lmlmism or primitive Shr•ite Islam. Later, we shall have to stress
again its no less fundamental theme, the spiritual body. This
school, still very much alive today in Iran (where its principal
center is Kirmlln ) 122 can give us an idea of what a purely spir­
itual Islam would represent for our modern times.
Here now are the teachings given us by the one and the other.
"When you learn in the treatises of ancient Sages," writes
Suhrawardr, "that there exists a world with dimensions and
extension, other than the pleroma of Intelligences and other
than the world governed by the Souls of the Spheres, a world
with so many cities thnt it is uhttost impossible to count their

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
number, do not hasten to call this a lie; it so happens that the
pilgrims of the spirit contemplate this world and in it find every
object of their desire."28 The author, as well as his immediate
commentators, have on several occasions clearly described its
ideal topography.24 They tell us that while the world with ex­
tension perceptible to the senses includes se'Ven climates (the
seven kesh'Vars previously mentioned) ,  another world exists,
which forms the eighth climate. The ancient Sages were allud­
ing to this world when they declared that besides the sensory
world there is another world with shape and dimensions also
extending in space, but the shape, dimensions, and extent of
this other world are not identical with those we perceive in the
world of physical bodies, although what exists in the sensory
world has its analogue there; it is not a question of sensory di­
mensions, but of exemplary imaginative dimensions ( maqiidir
mithiillya ) .
So here we have a threefold universe: an intelligible universe,
a sensory universe, and between the two a universe for which
it is difficult in our language to find a satisfactory term. If we
use the word Imaginable, we risk suggesting the idea of eventu­
ality, possibility. The word must be given all the force of a tech­
nical term as designating the object proper to the imaginati'Ve
perception, everything that can be perceived by the Imagination,
with as much reality and truth as the sensory can be perceived
by the senses, or the intelligible by the intellect. Perhaps then it
would be simpler to use the word Imaginati'Ve, provided the term
is related both to the subject who imagines and to the Image
which is imagined; moreover, the latter is the Image of this
subject; the imaginati'Ve world is the world of the soul which is
made Image by the organ of the soul, thereby revealing to it its
own Image. That is the teaching tirelessly repeated by all our
authors.
So this is a universe which symbolizes both with corporeal
substance, because it possesses shape, dimensions, and extent­
and with separated or intelligible substance, because it is essen­
tially made of light ( nuriini) . It is both immaterial matter and
the incorporeal corporealized. It is the limit which separates

§2. The "Eighth Climate"
and at the same time unites them. That is why in the specula­
tive theosophy of ҭOfism this universe is usually called barzakh
(screen, limit, interval, interworld) .  25 There, among other mar­
vels, are three immense cities, JAbalqA, JAbarųA, HorqalyA, peo­
pled by innumerable creatures. And by virtue of the homology
that makes the three worlds symbolize with one another, the
world of the Imaginable or of the Imaginative also presents a
division corresponding to the twofold Occident of the physical
world; thus JAbaҮA and JAbalqa correspond to the terrestrial
world of elementary matter, while HorqalyA corresponds to the
Heavens of the physical world. Like them, HorqalyA transmits
its influx to its own Earth, on which it also confers its own
name. The world of Horqalyt therefore contains both Heavens
and an Earth, not a sensory Earth and Heavens, but Earth and
Heavens in the state of exemplary Images. Likewise, the Earth
of HorqalyA also includes all the archetypal Images of individual
beings and corporeal things existing in the sensory world (so
our authors ask that these archetypal Images should not be
confused with the Platonic Ideas which, although designated by
the plural of the same word, muthul, are pure intelligibles ) . 28
This eighth climate, this world in the subtle. state, which includes
many degrees, and which is impenetrable by the sensory organs,
is the real place of all psycho-spiritual events (visions, charismas,
thaumaturgical actions breaching the physical laws of space
and time ) , which are considered simply as imaginary-that is,
as unreal-so long as one remains in the rational dilemma which
is restricted to a choice between the two terms of banal dualism,
"matter" or "spirit," corresponding to that other one: "history"
or "myth."
In his turn, Shaikh Al}mad Al}sA'! describes in detail the ideal
topography of the Earth of HorqalyA. 27 It begins, he says, on the
convex sucface of the ninth Sphere-this is a precise and subtle
way to indicate that this Earth is no longer contained in the
dimensions of our physical cosmic space, since beyond the sur­
face of the enveloping Sphere which, in the Ptolemaic system
of the world, is the boundary limiting and defining the directions
of 11puce, the Sphere of Sphere11, ito further direction nor orienta-

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalyii
tion in physical space is possible. There is a discontinuity be­
tween sensory space and the spatiality proper to the archetypal
world of Images, which is trl\l)sspatial in relation to the first
one.28 That is why, just as the world of the barz.akh, this bound­
ary-Earth "begins," that is has its "below" at the boundary of
the emerald rock or mystical Sinai, the keystone of the celes­
tial vault, the "pole"-in the same way Shaikh Al)mad situated
Ho.rqalya both at the "high point of Time" (a'la'l-zaman ) and
at the lowest or first degree of eternity (asfal al-Dahr, more ex­
actly of the Aevum or eternal Time ) .  2° Finally, it is, therefore,
an interworld, limiting and conjoining time and eternity, space
and transspace, just as its immaterial matter and its celestial
Earth are also the sign of its coincidentia oppositorum,30 the
conjunction of the sensory and the intelligible in the pure space
of the archetype-Images.
This theme is amplified in a most interesting way in an im­
portant work by the present leader of the Shaikh I community,
Shaikh Sarkar Agha, an eminent spiritual figure in Iran today,
fifth in line from Shaikh Al)mad Al)sa'l. We were struck by this
central thought: the hierarchy of being is ranged in a series
of universes, all of which end finally in our terrestrial Earth
( khak ) , 31 this Earth which is like the "tomb" to which they have
been entrusted; it is from this tomb that they must emerge and
be resurrected. But this resurrection is conceivable only if the
"descent" of the eternal Forms onto this Earth is understood in
its true sense. Just as the astralness of the Sun does not "descend"
from its Heaven, so there is no question of an inherence or an
"infusion" nor of a material incarnation, an idea which an "Ori­
ental" philosophy definitely rejects. 32 On the contrary, the idea
of epiphany dominates its mode of perception and that is why
the comparison with a "mirror" is always suggested to us. Human
souls, being eternal, do not themselves mix "in person," so to
speak, with the world of material and accidental things, which
are temporal. It is their silhouette, their Image, their shadow,
which is projected onto it.33 Each of them has its own particular
activity and perfection, which are an effect and an influx of the
universal and absolute activity of the Soul of the World.

§2. The "Eighth Climate"
Now this, the Shaikh says, is what is called "world," that
absolute psychic activity which, taken as such, is at the same
time below the Soul whose activity it is, but above those acci­
dental terrestrial matters in which the sensory faculties perceive
it. The world as absolute psychic activity is a barzakh, an in­
terval. Hence, just as the material substance and the form of the
mirror are neither the matter nor the form of the Image reflected
and perceived in it, but simply the privileged place where
this Image is epiphanized, so sensory matter is but the vehicle
( markab ) , or rather the epiphanic place ( mĎhar) , for the forms
produced by the absolute activity of the soul. It would be the
greatest mistake to take mirror as constituting here the sub­
stance and consistency of the Images that appear in it. The
mirror may no longer be there, it may be broken: the forms of
the soul, being neither inherent in nor cosubstantial with the
mirror, continue to subsist.
In order to grasp the Image in its absolute reality, that is to
say absolved, detached, from the sensory mirror in which it is
reflected, it is undoubtedly necessary to have what the Shaikh
calls an "eye of the world beyond" ( Chashm-i barzakhl ) ,  that
is, an organ of visiorr which is itself a part of the absolute activ­
ity of the soul, and which corresponds to our lmaginatio vera.
Let us emphasize then, that this does not mean knowing things
as abstract idea, as philosophical concept, but as the perfectly
individuated features of their Image, meditated, or rather pre­
meditated, by the soul, namely their archetypal Image. That is
why in this intermediate world there are Heavens and Earths,
animals, plants, and minerals, cities, towns, and forests. Now,
this means, in effect, that if things corresponding to all these are
visible and seen in this world, here on this terrestrial Earth, it
is because ultimately what we call physis and physical is but the
reflection of the world of the Soul; there is no pure physics, but
always the physics of some definite psychic activity. So, to be­
come aware of it is to see the world of the Soul, to see all things
as they are in the Earth of HorqalyA, the Earth of emerald cities,
it is the visio smaragdina, which is the surrection and the resur­
rection of the world of thr Soul. Tht>n this reality that ordinary
H I

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalya
consciousness confers on physical things and events as if they
were autonomous realities, proves in fact to be the visionary
reality of the soul. 84
That is why we were able to say that the mystical Earth of
Ho.rqalyA represents, as it were, the phenomenon of the Earth
in its absolute state, that is, absolved from the empirical appear­
ance displayed to the senses, and, on the other hand, the real
apparition restored by the transcendental Imagination alone.
Here all realities exist in the state of Images, and these Images
are a priori or archetypal; in other words, they are themselves,
as it were, pre-meditant, in the meditation of the soul whose
world they are, for, since they are the world, that is the activity
proper to this soul, they "give the measure" of this soul, express
its structure and its energies. The awakening to consciousness
of HO.rqalyA announces a new mode of relationship of the soul
with extent, with everything that is corporeal and spatial, a re­
lationship that cannot be a relation of content with container.
The way of seeing the Earth and the way of seeing the soul are
the very same thing, the vision in which the soul perceives itself;
this can be its paradise, and it can be its hell. The "eighth
climate" is the climate of the soul, and that is what the great
theosophist Ibn 'Arabi (d. 1240 ) conveys to us in a mythical
recital from which I will give here only a few striking extracts.
From the clay from which Adam was created, he says,35 or
rather from the leaven of this clay, a surplus remained. From
this surplus an Earth was created whose Arabic name ( Ar{i
}:laqiqa ) can be translated both as "Earth of True Reality" and
"Earth of Real Truth." It is an immense Earth, which itself in­
cludes Heavens and Earths, Paradises and Hells. A great num­
ber of things whose existence in our world has been proven
rationally and validly to be impossible, nevertheless do exist
without a doubt in that Earth-the prairie on which the mystical
theosophists never tire of feasting their eyes. And here is the
point: in the whole of the universes of this Earth of Truth, God
has created for each soul a universe corresponding to that soul.
When the mystic contemplates this universe, it is himself ( nafs,
his Anima ) ,  that he is contemplating.

§2. The "Eighth Climate"
Thus, the Imago Te"ae is indeed here the very image of the
soul, the image through which the soul contemplates itself, its
energies and its powers, its hopes and its fears. That is why this
Earth of Truth is the place where all the Images which the soul
projects on its horizon really subsist and disclose to it the pres­
ence of one or another of its states. Rational or rationalistic ob­
jections cannot prevail against it. This Earth of Truth is the
Earth of the flowering of symbols that the rational intellect fails
to penetrate, believing as it usually does that in "explaining" a
symbol it has by the same token made it disappear by rendering
it superfluous. No, in this Earth of T-ruth the whole enchanted
universe of the soul subsists because there the soul is "at home"
and because its own archetypal Images have become transparent
for it, while at the same time they remain necessary to it precisely
in order that their esoteric quality ( ba#n ) may show through.
Without these Images the soul would actualize neither these
rituals nor these iconographies and dramaturgies whose place
of real fulfillment is precisely the Earth of Horqalyll. That is
also why this Earth is the place of visionary recitals, of prayer
in dialogue; it is not, Ibn •Arabi says, the place of mystical
annihilations, of the abysses of negative theology, but the place
of divine epiphanies ( tajalliyat ilahiya ) , which do not volatilize
the soul nor tear it away from the vision of itself, but on the
contrary help it to be at last with itself and in itself. Every form
in which these epiphanies are clothed, as well as every form in
which man sees himself in dreams or in the intermediate state
between waking and sleeping, or in that state of active medita­
tion which is a state of waking while the senses are asleep-all
this belongs to the body of this Earth of Truth. For one does not
enter into it with bodies of coarse matter. The adept must know
that if he happens to see there with his eyes some spiritual entity,
it is because he has become qualified to clothe himself in one of
those Forms assumed by Angels when they make themselves
visible to nonsensory perception. 18
We are now able to grasp the full significance of the concise
and striking formulae in which a great theologian-philosopher,
Muǔusin-Jt·ay,, an Iranian Imamlte of the seventeenth century,

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalyii
condenses all that it is essential to know concerning the Earth
of Hilrqalya, the eighth climate, the world of archetype-Images:
"This intermediate world," he says, "occupies in the macrocosm
the same rank as the Imagination in the microcosm." And for
this reason "it is the world through which spirits are embodied,
and bodies spiritualized."37 It may be said that each function is
the reason for the other. The intermediate world is accessible
only to the active Imagination, which is at the same time the
founder of its own universe and the transmuter of sensory data
into symbols. By this very transmutation a resurrection of mate­
rial bodies into sllbtle or spiritual bodies takes place. This Earth
of Horqalya, which the adept's meditation feeds with his own
substance, is at the same time the Earth from which his medi­
tation extracts and develops the subtle elements of his body of
resurrection. And that is why finally the mystical Earth of
Horqalya, the Earth of emerald cities, may be defined as the
Earth of Visions and as the Earth of Resurrection.
3. Hurqalyii, Earth of Visions
To illustrate this first aspect, we could gather here very many
experimental data that can be gleaned from the works of our
Spirituals. Since we must limit ourselves, we shall select only
three cases: one is presented as a personal case, another refers
to an ideal case, a third offers a whole spiritual teaching. The
first two examples are furnished by the work of the master of
Ishraq, Suhrawardr; the third belongs to the Shaikhr teaching.
Suhrawardr relates in one of his books38 how, during a period
of overwork and spiritual ordeal brought on by meditation on
the problem of Knowledge, up to then unsolved by him, one
night, while still in an intermediate state between waking and
sleeping, he was gratified by the apparition of the Imam of Phi­
losophers, the Primus Magister, Aristotle. The beauty and the
delicate light of the vision39 are carefully described; then the
author reports what was in fact a long dialogue, evoking one
after another high doctrinal themes. Elsewhere, referring to
this memorable conversation, he speaks of it as an event that

§3. Hurqalyii, Earth of Visions
took place in the mystical station of JAbarųA.40 This is both a
subtle and a precise way to define the consistence of the pure
psycho-spiritual event as penetration into one of the emerald
cities. Precisely, the first advice given by Aristotle's apparition
to his visionary, in order to free him from the problem troubling
him, from which he found no relief in philosophy books, is this:
"Awake to yourself." For, with this "awakening to oneself" the
whole inner experience of the IshrAq expands, that is the experi­
ence of the rising of the light, of the light in its Orient. When
it awakens to itself, the soul is itself this rising dawn, itself the
substance of the Orient Light. The "Earths" that it illuminates
are no longer, for it, a collection of outer places and things, know­
able only through descriptive science ( 'ilm rasmi) ;  they are, for
the soul, its very presence to itself, its absolute activity, which
it knows through "presential science" ( 'ilm l,lufjuri ) , that is,
through this "Oriental knowledge" ( 'ilm ishriiqi) which can be
characterized as cognitio matutina. To this day Iran has pre­
served this tradition.
Hermes is the ideal hero of this cognitio matutina. This is the
second experimental datum borrowed also from Suhrawardi's
works. As one can be easily convinced, the person of Hermes is
there as a substitute for that of the author to thematize the per­
sonal event. It is a dramaturgy of ecstasy, the description of
which is striking: 41 "One night when the sun was shining,
Hermes was praying in the temple of Light. When the column
of dawn burst forth, he saw an Earth being swallowed up with
cities on which the divine anger had fallen, and they toppled
into the abyss. Then he cried out: 'Thou who art my father,
save me from being imprisoned with those who are near perdi­
tion!' And he heard a voice cry out in response: 'Grab the cable
of our Irradiation and ascend to the battlements of the Throne.'
So he ascended and under his feet, Lol Earth and Heavens.''
Suhrawardi's commentators have devoted themselves to de­
ciphering the meaning of this episode;42 it seems that it can be
clearly interpreted without too much difficulty. The episode con­
stituter. a car.e of celer.tial "inner" ascension, such as are given
in visionary hiogruphie!l, Znrnthuittrn'Ku as well as that of the

Prophet of Islam during the night of the Mi•raj,44 and it is such
cases which have contributed to the need, particularly in Shaikh­
ism, for the doctrine of the "spiritual body."
Let us select the main features that here give the event its
meaning for our search. There is the Earth, which is engulfed
with its cities: it is the terrestrial Earth together with the facul­
ties of sensory perception that apprehend it; they fall and vanish
at dawn, that is, in the first gleam of the vision of ecstasy. Men­
tion is then made of an Earth and of Heavens that Hermes, there­
after, has under his feet. Henceforth, Hermes is indeed on the
Earth of HtlrqalyA, which implies that he has left below him all
the Heavens of the physical cosmos, the "celestial Occident" of
the material world. Then the synchronism of the episodes is it­
self significant, confirming what we had noted in the event tak­
ing place in JAbarųA; there is a coincidence between dawn's
breaking and the awakening to one's self. For, this sun near
which, at night, Hermes was praying, is his very soul which, in
arising to itself, lets the empirical facts imposed upon him by
his terrestrial sojourn sink back into their darkness: this sun is
the spirit's "midnight sun" or "aurora borealis." But at the mo­
ment of this breaking dawn, there is such danger that Hermes
calls on his supreme recourse for assistance: the celestial Ego
from whom he originates, to whom he returns, and who can be
understood here, in the very terms of the IshrAql philosophy, both
as "Perfect Nature," the archetypal "I" or guardian Angel of the
philosopher (the "Fravarti," zs,o௢ 8a.lp.ࡪv) , as well as the Angel
of humanity, who is both active Intelligence and the Angel
Gabriel or Holy Spirit from whom human souls emanate. 45 Ris­
ing dawn and awakening to oneself, penetration into the Earth
of HtlrqalyA and meeting with the celestial alter ego, these are
the complementary aspects of the same event that proclaims the
transmutation of the soul, its birth into the intermediary world.
It would undoubtedly take a whole book to exhaust all the
allusions and meanings implied by this dramaturgy of ecstasy.
In any case, it allows us to understand on what experimental
data the efforts of our "Oriental" ( IshrAqJ) theosophists or _tlfJs
were based to establish in its autonomy und lofty reality this

§3. Hitrqalya, Earth of Visions ·
intermediary world of the lmaginalia, so completely misconstrued
through the habits of rational and positive mind, which identifies
it simply with the unreal.
On the other hand, our Spirituals have diligently tried to
define its ontological status. It had to be admitted that forms and
figures of the "imaginative" world do not subsist like empirical
realities of the physical world, otherwise they could rightfully
be perceived by just anybody. It was also seen that they cannot
subsist in the pure intelligible world, since they have extent and
dimension, a materiality undoubtedly "immaterial" in relation
to that of the sensory world, but still properly corporeal and
spatial. For the same reason, they cannot have our thought alone
as a substratum. And yet, they do not belong to the unreal, the
void, otherwise we could neither perceive them nor have any
opinion about them. Thus the existence of an intermediary world
(al-•alam al-khaycili al-mithali, mundus imaginalis archetypus )
appeared metaphysically necessary. Equally dependent on it are:
the validity of visionary recitals perceiving and relating "events
in Heaven," the validity of dreams, of hierophanies and symbolic
rituals, the reality of places constituted by intense meditation, the
reality of inspired imaginative visions, of cosmogonic relations
and of theogonies, the authenticity of the spiritual meaning
decipherable under the imaginative data of prophetic revelations,
and so on-briefly, everything that surpasses the order of com­
mon empirical perception and is individualized in a personal
vision, undemonstrable by simple recourse to the criteria of
sensory knowledge or rational understanding. 40
So that, unable to attribute to these realities perceived as
psycho-spiritual events either the status of permanent physical
substances in sensory space or the· inherence of sensory accidents
in their substratum, one was led to conceive a mode of being
formulated as a mode of "being in suspense" (al-muthul al­
mu•allaqa ) ,  that is, a mode of being such that the Image or the
Form, being its own "matter," is independent of a substratum in
which it would be immanent in the manner of an accident (like
the color black, for example, subsisting through the black object
in which it i11 immanent ) .  Let u!i imagine the form of a statue
H7

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalyii
in its pure state, liberated from the marble, the wood, or the
bronze. That is why we always return to the apparitional mode
which is that of subsistence of the Images "in suspense" in a
mirror. This was generalized in a doctrine of epiphanic places
and forms ( mĎahir ) , which is one of the characteristic aspects
of Suhrawardl's Oriental theosophy. The active Imagination
( takhayyul ) is the mirror par excellence, the epiphanic place
( mĎhar) of the Images of the archetypal world. That is why
its perceptions are just as real as those of the sensory faculties.
They are real even to a more eminent degree, since the
lmaginalia of sensory things that are epiphanized there proclaim
transmutation of the latter. Personal figures, forms, and land­
scapes, plants and animals that appear in it no longer obey the
permanent laws of density nor the conditions of the perceptibility
of the sensory world. Thus, it is in Hurqalya that Pythagoras,
for example, was able to perceive the melody of the Spheres, the
cosmic music-that is to say, outside of his material body and
without his organs of sensory perception. 47 It is therefore neces­
sary to conceive that there are sounds, for example, perfectly
perceptible by the active Imagination, which are not conditioned
by vibrations of the air; they constitute the archetype-Image of
sound.48 In short, there is a whole universe of correspondences
in the image of the physical world (possessing figure, color,
extension, scent, resonance ) that does not depend on pure phys­
ics,49 or rather, that presupposes the integration of physics as
such into psycho-spiritual activity, their conjunction in an inter­
mediate world rising above the dualism of matter and spirit, of
senses and intellect.
The metamorphosis, which elevates our vision and situates it
on a level from which everything that was offered to the ordinary
consciousness as a purely physical thing or event appears from
then on in its essential conjunction with the psycho-spiritual
activity that conditions its very perceptibility-this metamor­
phosis is "to be in the Earth of Hurqalya." Hurqalya is the Earth
of the soul, because it is the soul's vision. "To see things in
Hurqalyn" is to see them as they are as events of the soul, and
not as constituted into autonomous material realities, with a

§3. Hitrqalyii, Earth of Visions
meaning detached from and independent of the soul, as our posi­
tive science constitutes and "objectifies" them. Finally, it is a
way of meditating the Earth and transfiguring it by this medita­
tion.
Here we can also refer to the teaching of the eminent Shaikh
Sarkar Agha, and this is the third example that I wished to cite,
because it stresses the orientation of the entire spiritual life. It is
here below, on this very Earth, the Shaikh tells us, that one
must become an inhabitant of the Earth of Hurqalya, a Hur­
qalyavf.Go Immediately we glimpse the importance of this im­
perative, when it concerns living the fundamental hope of
Imamism or Shrism, its expectation of the Imam (corresponding
to the expectation of Maitreya, the future Buddha, of the Saoshy­
ant in Zoroastrianism, to the return of Christ in Christianity) .
It is not an outward e.vent to be expected sometime in the far
distant future; it is an Event that here and now is taking place
in souls and slowly progresses and matures there. "The Imam's
epiphany takes place for us," the Shaikh writes, "at the very
moment when our eyes open [cf. above, "the eye of the world
beyond," the "barzakhi eye"], the moment we contemplate the
epiphany of this reign in all the universes." Then the statement
of Shaikh Al,tmad Al,tsa'l takes on its full meaning, affirming
that for the Spirituals "the Imam from this very day in Hurqalya
is the object of their contemplation." This is what is meant by
the Sun rising (or rising again) in the West, that is the Orient,
in the true sense, the corollary being the decline of the ready­
made empirical evidences of the material Earth, to which the
soul had declined. Furthermore, says the Shaikh, only then "you
will have contemplated Hnrqalya, and rising higher than this
terrestrial Earth, will you have perceived the archetype-Image
and the light of your own Imam, a light which encompasses at
the same time the terrestrial world and all that is contained
between Jabalqa and Jabar৘?a."
With this conception of eschatology, we can understand also
that the whole of history is "seen in Hurqalya. "61 That being
admitted, the events of this history are seen to be much more
than what we ourselves call "facts"; they are visions. On the
RO

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalyii
other hand, everything that we call "history," and value as
"historical," is not "seen in Ho.rqalyA," is not an event in the
Earth of Ho.rqalyA, and therefore is devoid of religious interest
and spiritual meaning. The orientation of the terrestrial Earth
toward the Earth of Ho.rqalyA, toward the celestial pole, confers
a polar dimension on terrestrial existence, gives it a direction
not evolutionary but vertical, ascensional. The past is not behind
us, but "under our feet."02 It is precisely there that our mental
habits, not only scientific but religious, perhaps make us "lose
our footing." Where these habits demand what we call historical
facts, verifiable concrete realities, physical events witnessed and
recorded, we are answered mildly by "visions." Perhaps the con­
tent of those books that we call Apocryphal (those of the Old
and of the New Testament) can best help us to understand the
matter38 ( and precisely the fact that they are set aside as
"Apocryphal" has a meaning) .  One may call this docetism, but
perhaps the entire East has always been profoundly docetist
(there is d<><:etism in gnosis, there is docetism in Islam, there
is a Buddhist docetism, for docetism is fundamentally nothing
but a "theosophical" critique of knowledge, a phenomenology of
spiritual forms) .
In any case, it is this idea of physics being simultaneously
and essentially a psycho-spiritual activity, which makes possible
something like a physics of Resurrection and a physiology of the
"body of resurrection." It is not from the elements of the ter­
restrial Earth, but from the elements of the Earth of the
emerald cities that the "spiritual body" originates. It is as Earth
of Visions that the Earth of Ho.rqalyl is the Earth of Resurrec­
tion. This is the highest point and outstanding feature of the
Shaikhl doctrine, amply expounded in the work of its founder,
Shaikh AI:tmad Al:tsA'I.
4. Hurqalyii, Earth of Resurrection
The specific nature of the doctrine is already indicated in the
terminology that leads Shaikh Al:tmad to make a strict distinc­
tion between two terms currently used to designate body: there

§4. Hitrqalyii, Earth of Resurrection
is the body considered as organic, animated body (jasad ) , and
there is the body considered as corporeal mass or volume
( jism ) • 64 In our Shaikh's anthropology it is established that the
human being possesses two jasad ·and two jism; they represent a
twofold accidental body and a twofold essential body, accord­
ing to the following schema:
( 1 )  There is the first jasad, which we shall call jasad A, and
which is understood as being the elemental body, material and
perishable. It is the apparent body of each one of us, the one
that we can see, touch, weigh, recognize. It is an accidental and
perishable formation, a compound of sublunar physical elements.
( 2 )  There is a second jasad, which we shall call jasad B; it
is hidden and occult from our sight in jasad A; it also is an
elemental formation, but differs from the first in that it is not
composed of perishable terrestrial elements-those, that is, of
our material Earth-but of archetypal elements, the subtle ele­
ments of the "Earth of HurqalyA." This second jasad is, there­
fore, a formation belonging to the intermediate world, the world
of the barzakh; consequently, it has dimensions, but, unlike
the first jasad, it is not an accidental body but an essential and
imperishable body; it is the subtle elemental body, the body of
"spiritual flesh," caro spiritualis.
( 3 )  There is the first jism; let us call it jism A. Unlike the
two jasad, it is not an elemental body; it belongs neither to the
terrestrial Elements nor to the subtle Elements. It resembles
jasad A for, like it, it is accidental, not everlasting. It resembles
jasad B in the sense of being, like it, a formation of the inter­
mediate world. However, it does not arise from the subtle
elements of the Earth of HorqalyA (from the region, that is to
say, which corresponds there to the te"estrial climate of the
cosmic Occident) ; it originates from the celestial matter and
Heavens of HorqalyA (from the region, that is, corresponding
to the Spheres, to the celestial climate of the cosmic Occident) .
It is the subtle celestial body, the astral body, destined to be
reabsorbed.
( 4 ) There is the second jism, which we shall call jism B, and
this is the essential subtle body,· archetypal, eternal and imper-
9 1

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalya
ishable (jism ıli İaqiqi ) ;  the spirit is never separated from it,
for it is what constitutes the eternal individuality. One can say
of it that it is the corpus supracoeleste in man.63
At first sight, this schema strikingly resembles what we find
in the writings of the Neoplatonist, Proclus. The idea of these
different bodies, in which the soul is clothed, and which cor­
respond to different levels of being, reproduces the concept of the
ox,p,aTa ( okhemata ) or "vehicles of the soul" which the Neo­
platonists were so prone to meditate. 56 The doctrine of the astral
body ( uwp,a auTpon8€) or ox,p,aTa-7TvWp,a is SO fundamental in
the spiritual family to which Neoplatonism belongs that it imme­
diately calls for many other references, notably the ''perfect body"
( uwp,a TEAEWJI) of the Mithraic liturgy' the ''immortal body"
( uwp,a tifJ&.vaTov ) of the Hermetic Corpus,51 and finally, for this
is what it suggests, this is its aim and object of aspiration, the
i8to- 8a£p,ov or oi.eEo- 8a£p,ov, 58 the personal divinity or guardian
Angel to whom the adept is entrusted on initiation, and which
makes the terrestrial human being the counterpart of a celestial
being with whom it forms a whole. This, in terms of Mazdean
theosophy, is Fravarti, Daena, the transcendent "1," the celestial
alter ego.
We know the terms of the question in the case of a Proclus:
a compromise had to be found not only between Plato and Aris­
totle, but also between the Peripatetic tendency of Neoplatonism
and the Stoic psychology of the pneuma. 59 Besides, two traditions
concerning the "astral body" had to be reconciled, both alive in
Neoplatonism. Of these traditions, one represents the astral body
as attached permanently to the soul, the other represents it as
acquired or assumed by the soul during the soul's descent from
the upper regions, and as having to be abandoned by the soul in
the course of its reascent. 00 Proclus succeeds here in achieving
a synthesis, the homologue of which is found in the Shaikhite
doctrine; for him it consists in accepting the existence of two
ox"'ILa (okhema ) . These are:
( 1 )  the higher ox111La which is original, congenital (uvp,tf>v£ ) ,
the one that is called avyo£t8£ (luminous, auroral ) or
auTpoEt8£ (astral ) .  It is the proton soma ( originnl hody ) in

§4. Hurqalyii, Earth of Resurrection
which the demiurge has placed the soul. It is immaterial, im­
passible, imperishable. What corresponds exactly to it in
Shayikh A}:lmad A}:lsa'I's terminology and concepts, is the jism
B, which is called the archetype original, essential (jism ƚ̛̜
l,laqiqi) :  it is the real or essential human being, man in the true
sense ( insiin l,laqiqi ) . 81
( 2 ) The IJ"X.TJp.a 7rvEvp.aTu<ov, or lower "pneumatic" vehicle,
which is a temporary adjunct, composed of four elements: it is
the subtle body or vehicle of the irrational soul; like the latter it
survives the death of the body, but is destined to disappear or be
reabsorbed. What corresponds to it is jism A, an accidental for­
mation issued from the Heavens of the barzakhi or hurqalyi
intermediate world.
This question of the subtle body, of the vehicle of the soul,
( Macrobius' luminosi corporis am ictus, Boethius' levis currus ) 82
has persisted and will persist, will always be meditated, so it
seems, as long as Neoplatonic thought survives. It reappears
among the Byzantine Neoplatonists (Michael Psellos, Nicepho­
ros Gregoras ) ,  the Cambridge Neoplatonists (Ralph Cudworth,
seventeenth century ) and, let us now add, among our Neo­
platonists of Persia.
But in Shaikhism, the themes of meditation grow more com­
plicated. While Proclus was able to reconcile the two traditions
-of an original and imperishable okhema and of an okhtma
which will end by being reabsorbed or detached from the soul­
it can roughly be said that Shaikh A}:lmad A}:lsA1 proceeds simul­
taneously to affirm the existence of a twofold imperishable
okhema ( jism B and jasad B )  , and of an okhema pneumatikon
( jism A )  , a nonpermanent subtle astral body. The complication
of this schema can, it seems, be attributed to the need to safe­
guard the exegesis of Qur'Anic data concerning eschatology in
general.
These data taken literally, as they were understood by the
literalist "orthodox" of Islam, presuppose that the body of ter­
restrial flesh, jasad A, is resurrected, or "returns" just as it was.
For philosophical meditation, this material identity has always
rr.prr.!lented on insurmountable co'ntradiction, all the more fruit­
lr௤HH in thut it Hb5m11 from nn in௫tullidr௥nt understanding of the

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalyii
problem. For the physical impossibility to be proven, the question
demands that one rise above the realm of empirical sensory evi­
dence and the corresponding mode of perception. At that very
point, the work to be done is to transmute the latter into its
spiritual truth; it is not to find a way of escape into allegory and
its abstract residuum, but to establish a "harqalyi physics." This
is the very thing that makes possible the schema of the fourfold
body we have just outlined. In effect, though jism A, the acci­
dental astral body, is finally to disappear (like the okhema
pneumatikon of the Neoplatonists)-for, while being a harqalyi
jism, it is nevertheless accidental-it will be replaced by another
"vehicle," subtle and permanent, which is a body at the same
time elemental and essential, a body of "spiritual flesh," consti­
tuted by the subtle archetype-elements of the celestial Earth
of Ho.rqalyA. In this way, the state of wholeness, homo totus,
always comprises, as in Proclus' system, a twofold okhema. This
concept is properly that of the Iranian Neoplatonists and in a
way reinforces that of the Greek Neoplatonists.
Here then, very briefly, is the Shaikhite conception of the
eschatological process: everything which is accidental body
( jasad A and jism A )  will eventually disappear. Everything
which is essential body ( jasad B, and jism B ) is assured of
survival. Jasad A is the coarse elemental body in which the
descending soul clothed itself on reaching the terrestrial world.
It is not essential, merely an accidental coating. It perishes and
is decomposed, each element returning to its source and blending
with it-a fact of ordinary observation. Now, what leaves this
perishable body at the moment when the Angel of Death comes
to gather up the soul is a twofold thing: the essential original
body ( jism B, okhema symphyes ) ,  which is the permanent
basis of the eternal soul (?Jamil li'l-nafs ) ,  but at this point en­
wrapped in that accidental subtle body (jism A, okhema pneu­
matikon ) in which the soul had clothed itself in the course of
its descent towards the terrestrial Earth, on passing through the
intermediate world of the barzakh. This also is a formation of
the intermediate world; however, as we have already said, it is
constituted not from the subtle matter of the rlcmr.nta of the

§4. Hurqalya, Earth of Resurrection
Earth of Hurqalyil, but from the subtle matter of the Heavens
of Hurqalya.. It likewise is an accidental formation. These two
jism (A and B )  survive, together forming the state of eternal
human individuality and experiencing in the interworld either
the joy and sweetness of the "Occidental Paradise" (the flavor
of this expression unexpectedly recalls the "Pure Earth" of
Buddhism) or, on the contrary, the despair of a Hell immanent
in itself. This applies to individual eschatology as such. But what
enters at this point is an extremely complex interpretation of
general eschatology, that is, of the events closing our Aeon and
preluding a new cosmic cycle.
A verse in the Qur'a.n ( 3 9 :  6 8 ) tells of the two "blasts of the
trumpet" which are to be sounded by the Angel Seraphiel. This
verse gave full scope to the speculative impulse of the Shaikhi
theosophists. The Angel's "trumpet" is, of course, a cosmic in­
strument. Each of its orifices represents the "treasure," the origi­
nal matrix from which each being has come forth, in this case
the jism ıli, the subtle, essential, congenital body ( jism B ) ,
the archetype of human individuality. The first sounding of the
trumpet heralds the total reabsorption of the cosmos; each being
reenters its source and sleeps there during an interval whose
length is expressed as four centuries of our terrestrial duration
(this of course does not refer to chronology or quantitative
time) .  The second sounding of Seraphiel's trumpet proclaims the
Renewal of Creation ( tajdid al-khalq ) , a new cosmic cycle that
assumes the character of an apokotastisis, a restoration of all
things in their absolute, paradisic purity.81
In what then does the Event of this Resurrection consist? How
can it be that the Earth of Hnrqalyil is at the same time the
instrument and the scene no longer of the individual eschatology
alone (the entrance of subtle bodies into the "Occidental Para­
dise") , but of the general eschatology? What they tell us is this:
when the trumpet sounds for the Resurrection, the essential, orig­
inal body, which is the support of the eternal individuality
(jism a#f, jism B ) ,  reappears in its unchangeable wholeness
( verlls homo, in.tdn Ĳaqtqi ) .  As for jism A, okhema pneumati­
kon, which had merely lent n degree of opacity to the perfect

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalya
subtleness of the jism B, it does not reappear, or rather, it is
completely reabsorbed into the all-luminous subtlety of jism B.
As we have seen, these two jism departed together, at the mo­
ment of death, from the perishable, terrestrial, elemental body,
jasad A. But what of the imperishable subtle elemental body, the
body of "spiritual flesh" made of the elements of the Earth of
HurqalyA, jasad B or jasad hurqalyi?
Here Shaikhism introduces a highly original concept. This
body, likewise essential, is made up of the subtle matter of the
archetype-elements of the Earth of HurqalyA and is also a
receptacle of the influences of the Heavens of HurqalyA; this
means that it possesses organs of perception that are seventy
times more noble and more subtle than those of the body of
elemental flesh in which it is hidden and invisible. It has shape,
extent, and dimension, and is nevertheless imperishable.
Whereas the terrestrial elemental body, jasad A, perishes in the
grave, jasad B, or jasad hurqalyi does not depart from it at the
moment of death in company with the essential man ( insan
IJ,aqiqi ) ,  who is made up of the original subtle body enveloped
in his other, provisional, subtle body. The jasad hurqalyi sur­
vives, they tell us-survives "in the grave." But at this point we
should refer to a striking feature of one of Maeterlinck's dia­
logues expressing the esoteric meaning of death, when the
Shadow, a few moments before becoming the Angel of him
whose death it is, declares: "They look for me only in the grave­
yards, where I never go. I do not like corpses."84 The "grave,"
that is, the place where the jasad B continues to be, is not the
"graveyard," but exactly the mystical Earth of HurqalyA to
which it belongs, being constituted of its subtle elements; it
survives there, invisible to the senses, visible only to the visionary
Imagination.
Vision of this mystical subsistence is, therefore, itself a pre­
eminent example of a psycho-spiritual event "taking place" in the
Earth of HurqalyA. Here the difference between the schools of
thought becomes apparent. Proclus held that the inhabitants of
the high places of the Earth in Plato's myth, the Phaedo were
souls still clothed in their lower okhema and awaiting their

§4. Hitrqalya, Earth of Resurrection
complete apokotastisis.es In a way peculiarly his, Shaikh Al}mad
also rises above the dilemma which would leave no choice except
between the idea of completely disembodied souls (in contradic­
tion with the idea of soul ) and the idea of complete immortality
of the irrational soul (Jamblichus ) .  But when we come to
Shaikhism, the doctri• of apokotastisis is amplified. It is af­
firmed, not only that the lower okhema is stripped, but further
affirms the reassumption of this other essential body, which is
also a subtle vehicle, an imperishable, paradisic body, sleeping
in Ho.rqalyt, the Earth of Light whence it came. That is where
the Angel took it in order to "hide" it in the terrestrial body of
flesh, at the moment of conception.
Therefore, at the second sounding of the trumpet, this jasad B
or hilrqalyi body, the body of "spiritual flesh," is the body which
the eternal, individual soul, conveyed by its original, essential,
or archetypal body ( jism B ) , again puts on its transfigured
terrestrial raiment of glory. Now, this reunion and transfigura­
tion take place in and through the Earth of Ho.rqalyl. This
celestial Earth, this "eighth climate," is, indeed, what preserves
the future "Resurrection Body," since this Earth is its source;
and for that reason also it plays the same role in the general escha­
tology, namely, that of "Earth of Resurrection." It goes without
saying that "orthodox" Islam has never been able to find its way
in this theosophical physics; the Shaikhrs had to face difficult
situations, a mass of objections, on the feebleness of which we
need not dwell, since the premises remained on the very mental
level which the Shaikhls' meditation aimed to surpass. 88
Let us enter still more deeply into this Shaikhr meditation,
which transmutes things into the substance of Ho.rqalyl by
contemplating them in that "Earth" and thus evolves a physics
and physiology of Resurrection. We notice, then, that in this
process meditation on the alchemical Work plays a capital part,
and that the spiritual practice of alchemy continues in a discreet
fashion even to our day in Iranian Shaikhism. The work of its
founder reveals the need he exemplifies to interiorize the true
practice in order to obtain from it the psychic reactions which are
re11olved in a mystical psychology of the Resurrection body.

II. Mystical Earth of Hurqalya
The basic idea of alchemy for the Shaikhls67 is that it alone
makes it possible to conceive the resurrection of bodies as a
consequence or corollary of the survival of Spirits. It makes it
possible to pass from the one to the other and gather them into
a single concept. To make this transition is to make at the same
time a transposition (an "anaphora") and a transmutation, which
invalidate the rationalist philosophical arguments against resur­
rection, because these arguments are carried on on a level lower
than the level on which the question in fact arises, just as, and
for the same reason, the "literalist" concepts of orthodox theo­
logians concerning the resurrection of bodies are equally weak.
From the beginning, let us remember Shaikh SarkAr AghA's
beautiful and forceful maxim: one's first concern is to become a
Hurqalyii:vi oneself; one must be able and one must have been
initiated to see things and beings, processes and events, "in
Hiirqalyn." The organ of sight is the active Imagination, which
alone enters into the intermediate realm, makes the invisible
within the visible visible to itself. It is thus the quinta essentia
of all living, corporeal, and psychic energies. We hear Shaikh
A}:lmad insisting strongly in his turn on the essential function
of the meditant, active Imagination; as he says very definitely:
"The Imagination is essential to the soul and consubstantial
(jawharani) with it; it is an instrument of the soul, just as the
hand is an instrument of the physical body. Even sensory things
are known only by means of this organ, for it is to the soul what
the Soul of the Heaven of Venus is to the Soul of the Heaven of
the Zodiac."88 One can therefore also say here in Paracelsist terms
that the Imagination is the "astrum in homine," "coeleste sive
supracoeleste corpus."69 And one can add likewise that the
alchemical Work, because of the psychic effects it produces
in him who meditates and interiorizes it, is essentially carried
out "in the Earth of HorqalyA." So in that sense, it can be said of
alchemy that it works with the elements of the Earth of Hiir­
qalyil and "transmutes" the terrestrial elements into these subtle
elements.
But for this to be true, the alchemical Operation must be
really perceived and mentally actualized in HiirqalyA, and it is

§4. Hitrqalyii, Earth of Resurrection
for this purpose that the appropriate organ of perception is nec­
essary. This is why the alchemical Operation ( 'amal al-inii'a
al-maktam ) ,  literally, that is, the· operatio secreta Artis, is called
the "Wise Men's Mirror" ( mir'dt al-l;lukamii' ) .  "Of the Operation
of the Elixir ( 'amal al-iksir ) ," writes Shaikh Al,tmad, "the Wise
have made a Mirror in which they contemplate all the things of
this world, whether it be a concrete reality ('ayn ) or a mental
reality ( ma'nii ) .  In this mirror, the resurrection of bodies is
seen to be homologous to the resurrection of spirits. "70 The postu­
late is that one and the same spiritual Energy of light is just
as much the constituent of the essence of what is qualified as
material as it is of the essence of what is qualified as spiritual. 71
Briefly, how it should be expressed is by saying that "Spirits are
being-light in the fluid state ( nar wujadi dhii'ib ) whereas bodies
are being-light but in the solidified state ( nar wujadi jamid ) .
The difference between the two is like the difference between
water and snow. Proof confirming the resurrection of the one
is valid in respect of the resurrection of the other." Now, the
final result of the alchemical Operation is exactly this coinci­
dentia oppositorum :  once a body has been treated and perfected
by this Operation, it is in the state of "solid (or 'congealed,'
'frozen,' miyiih jam ida ) liquid."72
Here, then, are some themes for meditation which, amongst
others, are suggested to us with a view to interiorizing the al­
chemical Work. Let us, for example, take silica and potash,
opaque, dense substances corresponding to the state of the ter­
restrial, elemental body ( jasad A ) .  In the first place, having
been boiled and liquefied, these two substances lose their opacity
and become glass (potassium silicate ) , which is transparent; in
this state the outer allows the inner to be seen through it; the
hidden spontaneously shows through the apparent. Certainly
it is still the lithoid substance, and yet it is no longer that. This
state should be meditated as corresponding to the jasad B, which
is the subtle, diaphanous body composed of the elements of
HorqalyA. In refusion with the addition of a certain chemical,
glass becomes crystal; crystal with the addition of the white
F.lixir turns into the "crystal which sets on fire" (a "lens") .  At

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
this stage it corresponds to jism A ( okhema pneumatikon ) , that
is, to the astral body which envelopes the essential original body
(jism ıli, jism B ) ,  or eternal individual, and which, together
with the latter, enters the "celestial Earth" at the moment when
death separates them from the perishable elemental body (i.e.,
from jasad A )  . When the crystal is fused a second time. with
white Elixir, it becomes diamond. This is the same crystal, the
same silicate in which the crystal was hidden, the same com­
pound of mercury and sulphur, and yet it is no longer any of
these. "And diamond, freed from crystal, freed from glass, freed
from stone, corresponds to the believer's bodies in this absolute
Paradise."78
This operation is confirmed by others. That, for instance,
which is performed on pewter. Pewter treated with white Elixir
turns into pure silver, the stage of jasad B. Treated with red
Elixir, the silver becomes pure gold, the stage of jism A, which
enters the earthly Paradise or celestial Earth. Treated again
with red Elixir, the pewter-become-gold itself becomes Elixir,
the stage of jism B, which, reunited with jasad B (the hurqalyi
body) and having assimilated the latter to its own subtlety,
enters into the absolute Paradise. 74
Briefly, the meditation that interiorizes the transmutations
accomplished in the course of the real operation engenders the
spiritual body, which also is a coincidentia oppositorum. It enters
into the intermediate realm, into the psychic realm of subtle
bodies through the active meditant Imagination, which, by trans­
muting sensory processes or events into symbols, itself activates
psychic energies which radically transmute the relationship be­
tween soul and body. There is then a state, says Shaikh AQ.mad,
in which "bodies perceive through their very essence ( bi-dhiltihii )
the thoughts which are thought in the celestial world, as well as
angelic Forms. Reciprocally, the Spirits dependent on these
bodies perceive bodies and corporeal realities through their own
essence, since their bodies, when they wish it, become spirit and
their spirit, when they wish it, becomes body."71 Therefore,
meditation on the alchemical operation or meditation operating
alchemically reach the result the formula of which is precisely

§4. Hitrqalya, Earth of Resurrection
the definition we have heard, given by Mol;lsen Fay?:, of the
world of the barzakh as "a world through which bodies are spir­
itualized, and spirits embodied." And this is the perfect definition
of the Earth of HurqalyA, as well as of the Events which are
accomplished there and to which this mystical Earth lends its
very substance.
But, of course, this "substantiation" occurs only through the
presence of the adept to this mystical Earth where spiritual
bodies alone can be present. That is why the constant principle
here again is: solve et coagula. The Wise, writes Shaikh Al;lmad,
dissolve and coagulate the Stone with a part of its spirit and
repeat the operation several times. When they have treated it
three times with the white Elixir and nine times with the red
Elixir, the Stone becomes a living spiritual Mineral (or metal )
( ma•dan Ĳayawiini raĲiini) ,  which exactly translates our Latin
alchemists' idea of the living Stone ( lapis vivus ) /8 It is a body,
but its operation is spiritual: it gives life to those "metals" which
are dead. Meditate and understand this Sign, says the Shaikh, for
such a body is precisely the Sign of the dwellers in Paradise,
"for they have bodies in which exist all the attributes, laws, and
actions of bodies, but such bodies enact the actions of Spirits
and pure Intelligences; they perceive what the celestial Souls and
angelic Intelligences perceive, just as the latter perceive through
their own essence what Souls and bodies perceive."77 Bodies
such as these are made from the original clay ( al-!ina al-a#iya )
of the emerald cities JAbalqa and JAbaҮA, and they receive the
influx, no longer of the Heavens of the physical cosmos, but of
the Heavens of HurqalyA.18
Shaikh A);lmad Al;lsA'I's own words have, we believe, conveyed
what is essential in the doctrine. At some future date, we shall
publish a study of ·the amplification by his successors of the
theme of the spiritual body which is the body of resurrection.
In so doing, we shall discover the constants in what might be
called the "metaphysics of ecstasy" common to all the Spirituals,
and which bears witness to the permanence and identity of this
intenvorld on which their similar experiences converge. The
Shaikhs emphasize the idea of an essential archetype body (jism
1 0 1

II. Mystical Earth of Hitrqalya
৏li l}.aqiqi) which simultaneously possesses dimension, shape,
form, and color like bodies in general, but which differs from
them in one radical respect, namely that the appearance of the
essential body depends on actions fulfilled and the inner states
manifested by these actions. 79 In our terrestrial world, our inner
states are invisible and the aspect of what we do is limited to the
outer, observable appearance, but in the celestial earth the same
actions assume another form and inner states project visible
forms. Some take the form of palaces, others the form of houris,
or of flowers, plants, trees, animals, gardens, streams of running
water, 80 and so on. All these forms and figures are seen and are
real "outside," but they are at the same time attributes and modes
of being of man. Their transfiguration is the transfiguration of
man, and they form his surroundings, his celestial Earth. Hence
it can be said that the action is its own reward and the reward
is the action "itself."81
The ontological status of this celestial Earth is thus defined
in terms comparable, to take but one example, to the fundamental
doctrine of Swedenborg, who constantly reminds us, in formula­
tions which vary very little, that "things outside the Angels
assume an appearance corresponding to those which are within
them."82 All things that come into the Angels' field of vision
correspond to their "interior" and represent it; "they vary in
accordance with these inner states, and this is why they are
called 'Apparitions' ( apparentiae ) , but because they issue from
this source they are perceived so much more vividly and dis­
tinctly than the way in which men perceive terrestrial data, that
they must rather be called 'real Apparitions' ( apparentiae
reales ) since they really exist."88 And the following formulation
is perhaps the essential one: "the body of each Spirit and each
Angel is the form of its love."84 A Shaikhi saying echoes this
fundamental thesis: ''The paradise of the faithful gnostic is his
very b̝dy and the hell of the man without faith or knowledge
is likewise his body itsel£."85 Or again, this saying which con­
denses the fruit of Shaikh AQ.mad AQ.sa'l's meditations on the
"diamond body": "Every individual rises again in the very form

§4. Hiirqalyii, Earth of Resurrection
which his Work (in the alchemical sense) has fixed in the secret
(esoteric ) depth of himself. "86
One can also understand how the idea of the celestial body or
resurrection body expresses the idea of the human being in his
totality, homua integer. By representing the human person in
its transfigured state, it is henceforward far more than the physi­
cal organ of personal subjectivity in opposition to the world,
since it is "its" world, its "true world," that is, not a foreign,
opaque reality, but a transparency, the immediate presence of
itself to itself. From that point also we can understand how the
representation of the original, spiritual body, the okhema aym­
phyea of Neoplatonism, came to be connected with the idea of
personal divinity ( idioa daimDn ) ,  the guardian Angel or arche­
typal "I" from which the terrestrial "me" originates. This again
recalls an odd detail: Shaikh Al,tmad, when asked about the
origin of the name Hurqalya., which has as strange and foreign
a sound in Persian as in Arabic, answered that it was a word
which came from the Syriac language ( aaryani) in use amongst
the Sabeans of Baųra, or more exactly, the Mandeans.87 Now the
Earth of Hurqalya., the intermediate world of exemplary Real
Images, is the homologue, both in Suhrawardl's "Oriental theos­
ophy" and in Shaikhism, of the Paradise of the archetypes of
Virna, and it so happens that the close resemblance between the
Var of Virna and the "second world," or world of archetypes, of
Mandeism ( Mahunia Kuahta ) has more than once been pointed
out.
And in all cases it refers to that same world in which the
liberated soul, whether in momentary ecstasy or through the
supreme ecstasy of death, meets its archetypal "1," its alter ego
or celestial Image, and rejoices in the felicity of that encounter.
This reunion is celebrated in a Mandean text as follows: "I go
to meet my Image and my Image comes to meet me, embraces
me and holds me close when I come out of captivity."88 Recently
also, our attention was drawn to the affinity between the central
hero of Mandean gnosis, Hibil Ziwa, and the young Parthian
prince, the hero of the "Song of the Pearl" in the Acta of

II. Mystical Earth of Hiirqalyii
Thomas.89 In this ancient gnostic book we find again the rapture
of a similar encounter, when the young Prince, on returning to
the East, his fatherland, discovers the luminous raiment he had
left behind: "The garment suddenly appeared when I saw it
before me like unto a mirror of myself. I saw it altogether in me
and I was altogether in it, for we were two, separate one from
the other and yet but one of like form."90 And the Gospel Ac­
cording to Thomas declares: "When you see your likeness, you
rejoice, but when you see your Images which came into existence
before you, which neither die nor are manifested, how much will
you bearl"91
Now we must return to that which is the archetype of the
individual eschatology, and which was clearly described to us in
the last part of the preceding chapter. The figure of the Angel
DaenA, the celestial "I," as the daughter of Spenta Armaiti, the
feminine Archangel of the Earth and of earthly existence, led us
to make a connection that has seldom been pondered. It became
clear to us that the filiation of the celestial "I" is verified as and
when man assumes Spendarmatikih, the very nature of Spenta
Armaiti, who is Wisdom-Sophia. Hence the relationship of man
with the Earth, defining his present existence,. was seen by us
to be a Sophianic relationship, the full actualization of which is
destined to come about in a meeting of the Earth with the "Abode
of Hymns" ( GariJtman, the Iranian name of the celestial Para­
dise ) .  Going on from there, not in the "historical direction," but
according to the "polar dimension," we heard in a higher octave
of the harmony of the worlds, the theme of the supracelestial
Earth in the person of Fatima the Resplendent, Fapma-Sophia,
who is the Earth of the pleroma of the deity because she is its
Soul. We have since learned that the flowering of the spiritual
body, which is the awakening and birth to the celestial "I," takes
place in the form of a meditation that transfigures the Earth into
a celestial Earth, because, reciprocally, it is said that "the clay
of every faithful gnostic was taken from the Earth of his Para­
dise." Perhaps then we can begin to see no longer only what is
the celestial Earth, but who is the celestial Earth.
What does all this mean for us today? Nothing mcwr nor less

§4. Hitrqalya, Earth of Resurrection
than that very thing toward which we are going, which we shape,
each one of us, in the image of our own substance. We have
heard it expressed in languages both remote and nearer to us,
in very ancient and also in modern contexts (we went from
Mazdaism to Shaikhism ) . Very likely, the experiences of the
Iranian Spirituals evoke in each of us comparisons with certain
spiritual facts known from other sources. I would like to remind
you here of the words uttered in the very last moments of his life
by the great musician Richard Strauss: "Fifty years ago," he
managed to say, "I wrote Death and Transfiguration ( Tod und
Verkliirung ) ." Then, after a pause: "I was not mistaken. It is
indeed that. "93
At the boundary where the boundary ceases to be a boundary
and becomes a passage, there comes the overwhelming and ir­
refutable evidence: realization does indeed correspond to the
faith professed in the innermost part of the soul. One has only
to remember the last bars of this symphonic poem, and one will
understand the import of that realization in the present at the
moment when the end becomes a beginning: all that was fore­
glimpsed, all the struggle and secret hope borne as one faces a
challenge-it is indeed that. The triumphal solemnity of the
closing chorale of Mahler's Resurrection Symphony: "0 my
heart, believe! nothing art thou losing. What is yours remains,
yes, remains forever, all that was thy waiting, thy love, thy
struggle." One thing alone matters in the night in which our
human lives are wrapped: that the faint gleam, the fiery light,
may grow which makes us able to recognize the "Promised
Land," the Earth of HurqalyA and its emerald cities.
I I l l!'

\
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

P A R T  T W O
SELECTIONS FROM TRADITIONAL TEXTS

INTRODUCTION
THE TEXTS AND THEIR AUTHORS
It seems the right moment now to let our Shaikhs speak for
themselves, namely, those who have guided our research and our
meditation on the theme of the celestial Earth, more particularly
in Islamic Iran. This will at last provide the reader with a more
direct contact, no doubt rarely available, since there are so few
translations in this field. The titles of the books and the names
of the authors that appear in the following pages are still, with
two or three exceptions, unknown in the West, save to a few
specialists. Yet the question under discussion here is not, or
should not be, a problem for "specialists."
Certainly we are no longer at the stage of believing that
Islamic thought is represented only by the names of the five or
six great philosophers who were known to Latin Scholasticism.
But how long will it still take until the cultivated Western man
realizes the number of monuments of thought and spiritual
masterpieces both in Arabic and in Persian which so far are
almost entirely unknown? And how much longer still before
the treasure of their thought enters into what is called the "cul­
tural circuit," where it might bear fruit in conversations informed
by mutual good will and open, at last, an approach to the ess৐n­
tial? Having access, or claiming to have access, to texts of this
kind, and then wrapping oneself in pseudo mystery and in a
superior way withholding any references to them is simply "clos­
ing the gate of knowledge behind one"-a procedure that
Suhrnwardl already denounced in so many words, condemning
it liN ll Nign of imposture.
IOU

Introduction to the Texts
But let us be clear about one thing. The few pages translated
here are just a drop in the ocean. If at least, by making it known
that these books exist, they could inspire a few people with the
desire to know more about them and to set to work themselves,
they would already have fulfilled a part of their objective. All
the passages we have given were used as the basis for Chapter
II of Part One of this book. The following information concern­
ing their authors will help to give the reader a clearer picture
of the order of their succession in time. With two or three ex­
ceptions, they are Iranian authors; here we necessarily offer only
very summary information about them.
I. Shihabuddln Ya].:lya Suhrawardl, the Shaikh al-lshrliq-that
is (as we have already recalled) ,  the "Master of Oriental The­
osophy"-was born in 548/ 1 153 or 550/ 1 155 in northwest
Iran, at Suhraward in the province of Jabal near Azerbaijan. He
died a martyr's death at Aleppo, persecuted and prosecuted by
the Doctors of the Law in 5 87 I 1 19 1 ,  at the age of thirty-six or
thirty-eight. His life's work aimed to restore the theosophical
wisdom of ancient Persia in Islam itself, and with the resources
of the pure spiritual side of Islam. Some four centuries before the
great Byzantine Gemistes Pletho, Suhrawardl's work connected
the names of Plato and of Zarathustra (Zoroaster) in his meta­
physic of Light, in which the Platonic Ideas are interpreted by
means of the Zoroastrian angelology.
In his doctrine, the word "Orient" takes on a technical mean­
ing. In the literal sense, it is at one and the same time the geo­
graphic East, or, more precisely, the world of Iran and the hour
when the horizon is lighted by the fires of dawn. In the true sense
-that is to say, in the spiritual sense-the Orient is the world
of the beings of Light, from which the dawn of knowledge and
ecstasy rises in the pilgrim of the spirit. There is no true philos­
ophy which does not reach completion in a metaphysic of ecstasy,
nor mystical experience which does not demand a serious philo­
sophical preparation. And such precisely was the dawning
wisdom of the Khusrawanids, those ancient Iranians in whose
person the two meanings of the word "Orir.nt"-Aurora con-
1 10

Introduction to the Texts
surgens, Ishrilq-were thus conjoined. This "Oriental theos­
ophy" was destined to have representatives in Iran up to the
present day; the entire spiritual life of Iran has been marked
with its imprint. The authors of Iran are in the habit of repeating
that this Oriental theosophy is to philosophy what ŀtlfism is to
scholastic theology (the Kalam ) •
II. Mul)yYddYn ibn 'ArabY ( born at Murcia in Andalusia, 560/
1165; died in Damascus in 6S8/1240) was one of the greatest
mystical visionaries and theosophists of all time, whose role in
spiritual Islam a determinant factor, and of whom, without ex­
aggeration, one can truly say that his work was gigantic. His
most celebrated book is the Kitab al-futfll;lilt al-Makkiya (the
Book of the Spiritual Conquests of Mecca ) ,  comprising some
S,OOO pages printed on large in quarto. But in his doctoral thesis
(a history and classification of the works of Ibn 'ArabY, 2 vols.,
Institut franҨais de Damas, 1964 ) , Osman Yahya has collated
550 titles from the extant manuscripts (over 2,000 in number) ,
each of which he has personally examined. If we eliminate the
titles of 1S8 works of uncertain authorship, there still remains
a bibliography of 412 titles. Our previous research centered on
a study of the symbols of his "life curve" and of some predominant
themes in his gigantic work. Here we can only briefly refer to
them, all the more so as this book, in certain respects, is a con­
tinuation of our study Creative Imagination in the $flfism of Ibn
'Arabi. The pages that appear later on are just as relevant to
that study as they are to this book.
III. DA•nd QayųarY, born in Anatolia, as his name indicates
( Qay,ariya = Cesarea ) , later settled in Cairo and was one of
the great ŀQft figures of the eighth century of the Hijra; he died
in 75 1/1S50. He is best known for his extensive commentary
on one of the books of Ibn 'ArabY, the Fu,a, al-laikam, which
has been the most read and expounded in all Islamic languages.
This commentary includes such a highly developed introduction
on the great themes of ŀQfism that in certain bibliographies it is
considered a11 an independent work. The commentary, in its
1 1 1

Introduction to the Texts
turn, has given rise to further exposition of the theme, even in
Sht'ite Iran; among the more recent expositions were those of
Mrrzlt Riιll Qumshahr (d. 13 10/1892 at Teheran) .  His con­
temporary, the celebrated Avicennian, Abu'l-l;lasan Jilvah (d.
1317/1899 ) ,  added another Sht'ite commentary directly on the
Fua. These two were likewise commentators of the great work
of Mulla l;)adrlt Shrrllzl ( see below, Art. VI ) •
IV. 'Abd al-Karrm Jill or Jrlllnl, born in 7 67 I 1365, belonged,
as his name shows (Gillin is a province on the southwest coast
of the Caspian Sea) , to a family of Iranian ancestry but which
had long since settled in Baghdad, like so many Iranian families
to this day. Curiously enough, the biographical collections make
no mention of him, and we have to glean the information about
his spiritual autobiography from his own works. From them we
learn that in all probability he belonged to the Dervish Order
of the Qlldirls, founded by 'Abd al-Qitdir Jllllnl (d. 561/ 1 165 ) ;
we can deduce from certain clues that he was a descendant of
the latter. He traveled in India and then lived in the Yemen. His
most famous and widely-read book is his treatise on the Perfect
Man ( as a microcosm recapitulating the divine cosmic energies ) ,
but he left about twenty others, most of them unpublished,
though all worthy of publication. His work finds its place in the
line of that of Ibn 'Arabi; he wrote a commentary on the penulti­
mate chapter (the 559th) of the Futu?zat; nonetheless, his own
doctrine shows considerable personal originality. He died in
805/ 1403, at the age of thirty-eight.
V. Shamsuddrn Mul:;lammad Jilllnl Lllhrjr, a native of Lllhrja.n,
came in his turn to settle on the shores of the Caspian Sea. He
was a distinguished Shaikh of the Dervish Order of the Niir­
bakhshrya, and later succeeded Sayyid No.rbakhsh as head of the
order. He died and was buried at Shiraz in 869/1465. His
principal work, of which there have been several editions in
Iran, is a monumental example of Iranian spirituality. Written
in Persian, it is a summary of Shrite l;)ofhmt, in the form of a
commentary on the "Rose Garden of the My௪ttr•·y" ( G ul11&an-i
1 1 2

Introduction to the Texts
raz ) ,  a long poem of some 1,500 verses dealing in concise allu­
sive sentences with the lofty doctrines of ŀiifism. This poem
(which, significantly, was adopted by the lsma•rlrs ) had been
composed by the celebrated ŀiifl Shaikh from Azerbaijan,
Mal,lmiid Shabistarl, who, after living mostly in Tabrrz, died
at the age of thirty-three in 720/1320 and was entombed at
Shabistar. The poem, as well as its commentary, is still very
much read in Iran.
VI. $adruddin Mu?tammad Shirii:zi, more often called by his
honorific surname, Mulla ŀadra, is one of the greatest Iranian
figures of the ŀafavid period. He was the pupil of the famous
Mrr Damild (master of the school that we have called the School
of Iųfahan ) ,  of Shaikh Bahi'T, and of Mrr Findariskr, a rather
mysterious personage who, in the time of Shah Akbar and Dara
Shikoh, played some part in initiating the translation of Sanskrit
texts into Persian. The work of Mulla ŀadra is a monumental
expression of the Iranian Renaissance under the ŀafavids. It
typically represents the confluence of Avicennism and the lshraq
of Suhrawardr, on the one hand, and of the theosophy of Ibn
•Arabr and Shrite gnosis, on the other. However, although
Mulla ŀadra is an lshraqr, he develops a metaphysic of being
and the inquietude of being, in the place of Suhrawardr's meta­
physic of essence, which gives a very personal character to his
synthesis. As a result of his work, he, as well as all of his people
and his successors, had considerable trouble with the official
clergy. His collected works consist of fifty titles and cover the
field of philosophy and mysticism, as well as of the spiritual
exegesis of the Qur'an and the Shrite traditions. Several com­
mentaries have been devoted to his work, and nowadays a renais­
sance of traditional Iranian philosophy is tending to arise around
his name. Mulla ŀadra died at Baųra in 1050/1662, as he was
returning from a pilgrimage to Mecca.
VII. Mulla 'Abd al-Razzaq Lahrjr (d. 1072/1662 ) was yet
another north Iranian living on the shores of the Caspian Sea
and waH a dirtinguished pupil of Mulla. ŀadra. He even became
1 1 3

Introduction to the Texts
his master's son-in-law and received from him the "pen name"
F ayyd?; (overflowing) ,  just as his brother-in-law, MuQ.sin, re­
ceived the name Fay?- (overflowing plenitude ) .  His reputation
and productivity did not equal that of his brother-in-law, but he
left about a dozen solid works which are still much in use today;
this is especially true of his commentary on Naųrruddrn Tus'i,
the great thirteenth-century Shrite philosopher, and the work in
Persian entitled Gawhar-i muriid ( The Desired J ewe I )  , written
for Shah 'AbbAs II ( 1642-67 ) .  Doubtless his Ishrllql and eu.fr
bent is less pronounced than that of MuQ.sin Fay:j':, but in the
case of a Shrite writer one must always take into account the
possibility that he is being deliberately reticent. Mullll eadrll
had two sons who were also philosophers and writers. One of
them, Mlrzll i;Iasan, left a dozen works, the manuscripts of which
unfortunately, like so many others, have seemingly been buried
in the arcanum' of some private collection.
VIII. MuQ.sin Fay:j': Kllshllnl, together with his brother-in-law,
'Abd al-Razzllq Lllhljl, was one of the most brilliant pupils of
MullA ŀadrA and, after him, one of the greatest lmAmite scholars
during the eleventh century of the Hijra. He was born in Kllshlln,
where his father, MullA Shah Murta:j':ll, was already famed for
his learning and his valuable personal library. He came to Shiraz,
where he studied with the celebrated theologian Sayyid Majid
of Bahrein and then with MullA ŀadrll, one of whose daughters
he, too, married. He was a philosopher and a ŀtlfl, deeply Shrite,
and a great admirer of Ibn 'Arabi. He wrote a great many works;
there are some 120 titles in his bibliography, in Persian as well
as in Arabic, dealing with all the traditional branches of Islamic
science. He was also a poet; his Diwiin contains some thousand
verses. He died at Kashlln in 1091/1680.
IX. The Shaikhr school owes its name and its origin to its
founder, Shaikh AQ.mad AQ.sn, its greatest Shaikh. We have
already had occasion to point out that it is the sign of a powerful
revival of primitive Shrite gnosis and of the teaching contained
in traditions that go back to the Holy Imnm11. Thill event, which
1 1 4

Introduction to the Texts
came to pass in Iran at the end of the eighteenth century, after
the time of troubles that followed the collapse of the $afavid
dynasty, was symptomatic. We shall study this school at length
at a later date and so merely allude to it here, emphasizing three
principal points.
A glimpse of the basic doctrine of lmAmology developed by
this school was shown in a few pages above (Part One, Ch. u ,
§ I ) .  As to its doctrine of the "spiritual body," it has been dis­
cussed at length in Ch. n ,  § 4. Still further on there are some
significant pages pointing out how the doctrine stands half way
between that of the philosophers and that of the literalistic
theologians. Let us also note, though we have been unable to
stress it here, how important it was in developing one of the
great themes upon which the Spirituals of Islam tirelessly medi­
tated-namely, the ascent of the Prophet to Heaven, the night of
the Mi'riij. Lastly, the school has developed a doctrine of the
spiritual community, that of the "Perfect Shrites," in which we
can perceive-of course, in accord with the exigencies of the
tonality proper to lmAmism-a resonance not only of the $Ofl
motif of the rijal al-ghayb, the "Men of the Invisible," but of the
idea of an Ecclesia Spiritualis, upon which so many independent
Spirituals in Christianity have meditated. The literalistic Ortho­
dox have shown absolutely no understanding of all these points,
among many others. If one follows the sad story of discussions
and bickerings, one may well wonder whether the Orthodox
made, or even could make, the slightest effort to understand the
true nature of these problems. One would have to be very naive
to be surprised by it. The same spiritual facts have always
aroused the same human reactions.
Shaikh A}:tmad A}:tsl'l (d. 1241/1826 ) ,  founder of the school,
was himself a native of Bahrein, but more than fifteen years of his
life were spent in Iran, and it is probable that without an Iranian
audience there would have been no "Shaikhism." The Shaikh
resided principally in Yazd, where he enjoyed the friendly good
will of the governor, Mu}:t. 'All MirzA, son of Fat}:t-'All ShAh.
With his family he took several trips across the territory of Iran
to Tt•hel'nn ( where the sovereign, Fat}:t-'All ShAh QAjAr, wished
1 15

Introduction to the Texts
him to settle permanently) , to Mashhad, the sanctuary of the
Eighth Imam, to lৗ;fahan, to Qazvin, and to Kirmanshah. At
last the Shaikh withdrew to the Shrite holy places in Iraq. It
will not be possible here to enumerate the totality of his works
(the bibliography established by Shaikh Sarkar Aghlt contains
132 titles, to which, alas, must be added many works which un­
fortunately have been lost ) , or to give a biographical sketch, for
which firsthand documents are available. But what we would
like at least to suggest is the spiritual aura that casts a halo
around the truly very special person of Shaikh Al_lmad Al_lsa'I.
And it was his good fortune to have a line of successors at the
head of the Shaikh! school whose nobility of character and force
of spiritual personality were as admirable as was their scientific
productivity.
X. Shaikh l;lajj Mul_lammad Karim Khan Kirmanl (d. 1288/
1870 ) was the second in succession to Shaikh Al_lmad Ahsa'l
at the head of the Shaikhl school. Mul_l. Karim Khltn was a pupil
of Sayyid Kaǹim Rashti, who had been the beloved disciple of
the Shaikh and the first of his successors (d. 1259/ 1843 ) .
Through his father, Karim Khltn was a prince of the Qajar
family. To recall some day his spiritual career would require an
entire book. In the breadth of this universal spirit, which em­
braces and outstrips the entire spiritual culture of his circle and
his epoch, there is something of an Iranian Goethe. His work,
both in Persian and in Arabic, totals no less than 278 books; it
covers not only the field of philosophy and Shi'ite theosophy,
the spiritual hermeneutics of the Qur'an and the l;ladith, but also
an encyclopedia of the sciences: medicine, physics, optics, astron­
omy, theory of light, of music, of color, including alchemy and
related sciences. The few pages that we have translated should
suffice to show that the latter essentially dealt with spiritual sci­
ences. Much of this tremendous work is still unpublished. The
same is true of the equally extensive work of his two sons, Shaikh
l:lajj Mul_lammad Khan Kirmani (d. 1324/ 1906 ) and Shaikh
Zayn ai-'Abidln KhAn Kirmanl (d. 1 36 1 / 1 94·2 ) ,  who were the
third and fourth successors of Shnikh Al,muul. ThuN, the very
J W

Introduction to the Texts
original production of the ShaikhJ school, besides published
works, still comprises tens of thousands of sheets of unpublished
manuscripts.
XI. Shaikh Abu'l-Qasim Khan IbrAhlml was born in Kirman
in 1314/1896, the son of Shaikh Zayn al-•Abidln Khan and the
grandson of Shaikh Mú. Karim Khan. His people call him
for short and with affectionate respect by the honorific title
SarkAr AghA. Today he is the fifth successor of Shaikh Ámld
Ása'J to head the Shaikhl school. His works, themselves impor­
tant, include a vast work that expands certain difficult themes
in the work of Shaikh Mú. Karim Khan KirmAnJ. The closing
pages of this book are composed of extracts from this work;
they are the most suitable for showing the place of the theme
under discussion here in the totality of Shrite spirituality. And
it is chiefly on this score that I would like to pay tribute to the
outstanding personality of Shaikh SarkAr AghA. I have had occa­
sion, personally, to experience his spiritual radiation on those
around him and to learn things which I would never have learned
from books in the course of the many conversations that by his
kindness he has made possible.
Such are the men from whom we have taken our choice of
"traditional" texts. We are employing this term here just as
simply as they do themselves, not in any way implying some
secret and vague authority to teach, which Westerners are apt
to assume when they discuss these matters. It simply means the
texts to which one traditionally refers when having to deal with
a theme like the present one.
Finally, our authors turn out to be eleven in number, although
this was not by intention on our part. It is probable, however,
that no Twelver Shrite will accept this as the result of chance,
because he will know the whereabouts of the twelfth one.
) ) 7

I
SHIHABUDDiN Y AHYA SUHRA W ARDI
(d. 587il l91 )
Hurqalya, the World of Autonomous Images and
Imaginative Perception
( a )  B o o K  O F  C o N V E R S AT I O N s ,.
When you learn from the writings of the ancient Sages that
there exists a world possessed of dimensions and extent, other
than the pleroma of Intelligences and the world governed by the
Souls of the Spheres, and that in it there are cities beyond num­
ber among which the Prophet himself mentioned Jabalqa and
Jabarųii, do not hasten to proclaim it a lie, for there are pilgrims
of the spirit who come to see it with their own eyes and in it find
their heart's desire. As for the rabble of impostors and false
priests, they will deny what you have seen even if you bring
proof to expose their lie. Therefore, remain silent and have
patience, for if you come eventually to our Book of Oriental
Thesophy, no doubt you will understand something of what has
just been said, provided your initiator gives you guidance. If not,
be a believer in wisdom.
( b ) Bo o K  O F  E L U C I DA T I O N  s t
A narrative and a dream: For some time I was prey to an
intense obsession. I ceaselessly practiced meditation and spiritual
exercises, since the problem of knowledge assailed me with
insoluble difficulties. What they say about it in books brought
me no light. On one particular night I experienced a dreamlike
ecstasy. Suddenly I was wrapped in gentleness; there was a
• Our edition, p. 109, in the notes; quoted here nnorcllng to the manu­
script.•
t P. 70, par. 55.
I I  H

Shihiibuddin Y a/;lya Suhrawardi
blinding flash, then a very diaphanous light in the likeness of a
human being. I watched attentively and there he was: Helper
of souls, Imam of wisdom, Primus Magister, whose form filled
me with wonder and whose shining beauty dazzled me. He came
toward me, greeting me so kindly that my bewilderment faded
and my alarm gave way to a feeling of familiarity. And then I
began to complain to him of the trouble I had with this problem
of knowledge.
''Come back (awaken) to yourself," he said to me, "and your
problem will be solved."
"How so?" I asked.
"Is the knowledge which you have of yourself a direct percep­
tion of yourself by yourself, or do you get it from something
else? . . .  "1
Later, Suhrawardl himself alluded to the meaning of this con­
versation in his Book of Conversations, pp. 483-84, par. 208.
As for the view I personally profess concerning this problem
(of knowledge) ,  it is mentioned in my book on the ''Oriental
theosophy," but it is not possible for me to dwell upon it here
explicitly, since in this book I intended to conduct my enquiry in
such a way that it would not be too far from the program of the
Peripatetics. Nevertheless, if one were to study this present book
carefully, one would find that it is not devoid of precious things
and treasures hidden under a thin veil. If the half-wit is unable
to discover them, the fault is not mine. As for the persistent
worker and persevering seeker, let him gather the teachings
which are firmly established in this book, let him seize hold of
that for which he had not yet dared to wish and for which I will
have provided him with the necessary daring. The surest way
for the seeker to follow before studying my Oriental Theosophy
is the way I mentioned in my Book of Elucidations. Therein I re­
late what came to pass between the wise Imam of the dialecti­
cians and myself, when his apparition talked with me in the
mystical dwelling-place, Jabarųll. For the seeker, this way con­
sists first of all in investigating his knowledge of himself, and
1 1 9

Article I
then in raising himself to the knowledge of that which is above
him.3
( c )  B o o K  O F  E L U C I DATI O N s •
On a certain night when there was sunlight, Hermes was at
prayers in the temple of Light. When the "column of dawn"4
blazed forth, he saw an Earth about to be engulfed, with cities
upon which the divine anger had descended and which fell into
the abyss.5
Then Hermes shouted, "You who are my father, rescue me
from the enclosure of those near to perdition!"
And he heard a voice shouting an answer, ''Take hold of the
cable of our Irradiation and climb up to the battlements of the
Throne."
Then he climbed up and there, beneath his feet, was an Earth
and Heavens.
Shahrazilri: By HERMES, the author is symbolically refer­
ring to the noble and perfect soul. His prayer is his orientation
toward the other world. The night of the sun is the Presence,
there and then a reality, of that to which the Soul looks forward
in its spiritual efforts and in following the mystic path. The burst­
ing forth of the "column of dawn"8 is the epiphany of the soul
outside the material body, when the divine lights and most
sacred flames suddenly come upon it. Just as the column of
dawn rises for us above the earthly horizon, so this column of
dawn-1 refer to the thinking soul-bursts forth by rising above
the Earth of the body. So it is quite true that Hermes sees an
Earth being swallowed up. The pilgrim, that is, the thinking
soul, which, in the lightning flash of theophany, is manifested
outside the material body, sees the Earth of his body and his
cities-that is his faculties-being swallowed up together. This
is because, thanks to the revelation and epiphany, the soul finds
itself in the space of the intelligible lights and higher entities,
whereas the body and its faculties remain in the space of the
lower world upon which the divine angt௡r fulht. ·n,is is a way
• 1'. IOH, pnr. H !'l .
1 20

Shihabuddin r al}.ya Suhrawardi
of pointing out that the latter represent what is furthest removed
from the divine Majesty. Then the mystical pilgrim, rising from
the abyss of the material body toward the zenith of the Intelli­
gence, calls on his "father," a name which refers either to the
Necessary Being itself or to the archangelical Intelligence from
which the soul of the mystic emanates. "Save me," he cries,
"from the enclosure of those near to perdition," that is, the bodily
faculties and material attachments. A voice answers him, "Take
hold of the cable of Irradiation," that is, speculative theosophy
and practical theosophy, both of which lead to the higher
worlds. "Climb up to the battlements of the Throne," to the an­
gelic Intelligences separated from matter. And there beneath
his feet there was an Earth and Heavens. And so Hermes was
indeed raised above all the material universes, above the world
of the celestial Spheres as well as above the world of the Ele­
ments. Now the ancient Sages were in the habit of referring to
the spiritual entities as Spheres, because those whose light is
stronger encompass the weaker, just as the celestial Spheres
encompass each other. This is what Plato refers to when he says,
"In a state of ecstasy I saw Spheres of light," which means
Heavens which can be seen only by those who are raised from the
dead, when another Earth takes the place of the Earth and when
new Heavens take the place of the Heavens.
Ibn Kammilna: It is difficult to decipher these symbols in
conjunction. Our conjecture is as follows: 7 The column of dawn
breaking forth is the epiphany of the lights of higher knowledge.
The earth is the body, or else matter in general. The cities are
the souls which have become attached to material bodies, or else
the faculties which have their seat in the latter. It seems, there­
fore, that the author is comparing the faculties to the inhabitants
of these cities and is calling the inhabitants themselves cities, as
when he says, ''The city has sought refuge with God," meaning
thereby the inhabitants. Their fall into the abyss is the fall of
these souls from the rank to which the principle of their original
nature would have entitled them. You know already the condi­
tion and the cause of this downfall. The enclosure is the body,
tho!lc close to perdition are the bodily functions. The cable of

Article I
Irradiation is the connection with the higher world. The battle­
ments of the Throne are the spiritual entities. Finally, the fact
that under the feet of Hermes there is an Earth and Heavens
means that in his ascent he has now left the world of bodies and
material realities and is above their Earth as well as their
Heavens.
Ibn Kammiina, like Shahraziirl before him, proceeds here to
allude to the celebrated account of ecstasy which all of our
authors attribute to Plato, whereas, as we know, it comes from
a spiritual autobiography in the Enneads of Plotinus ( Iv.8. 1 ) .
Our authors know it through a passage from the Theology
attributed to Aristotle, which was one of their, so to speak, "bed­
side books." Suhrawardi quotes the first lines in his Oriental
Theosophy, and his commentator, Qutbuddln Shirazi, zealously
transcribes the entire passage. Our commentators do not ques­
tion-and they are absolutely right-that the ecstasy of Hermes
means his entry into the interworld, that is, the world of
Hurqalyii. In support of this, Ibn Kammiina cites the same three
passages translated above. Hermes emerged from the confines of
the Earth and of the Heavens visible to astronomy and pene­
trated into the world of archetype-Images which has its own
Earth and Heavens, and which contains, among countless other
cities, Jabalqii and JiibaJ1ii. Ibn Kammiina concludes as fol­
lows: "The real intention of the author in this passage raises
more difficulties for me than everything which came earlier in
this chapter." Shahraziirl did not experience these difficulties;
but it is true that Ibn Kammiina was not a mystic.
Since the account of ecstasy as it appears in the Arabic text
of the Theology attributed to Aristotle was a paraphrase of the
text of the Enneads, we are not giving the translation here.
Furthermore, this new Earth and these new Heavens, no longer
those of the sensory world, but those of the imaginative universe,
the mundus archetypus, are again described in the passage
from the Theology most often used by Ǎadruddln Shirazi (cf. be­
low, Art. VI ) in his lessons on Book II of the second part of the
Oriental Theosophy. This text in itself is justification for re­
lating the image of the Heavens or Spheres of light to the spirit­
ual entities which Plato, according to our authors, had seen.
Here we quote the translation of this passage by our colleague
Georges Vajda. 8
There are several kinds of spiritual entitieR. Some of them
have their dwelling place in the heaven Hitullt!d nhove the starry
1 22

Shihabuddin Y aiJ,ya Suhrawardi
sky. Each of the spiritual entities living in this heaven occupies
the whole of the sphere of his heaven, and yet has a fixed place,
distinct from that of his companion-in contrast to the corporeal
things which are in the sky-for they are not bodies, nor is the
heaven in question a body. That is why each of them occupies
the whole of his heaven. We say that behind this world there
is a heaven, an earth, a sea, animals, plants, and celestial men;
every being in that world is celestial and in it there is no earthly
thing. The spiritual entities which are there correspond to the
human beings who ৆re there; none of them is different from an­
other, and there is no opposition nor disagreement between them,
but each supports the other.
( d) B o o K O F  C O N V E R S AT I O N s "'
The encounter with suprasensory reality can come about
through a certain way of reading a written text; it can come
about from hearing a voice, without the speaker being visible.
Sometimes the voice is soft, sometimes it makes one tremble, at
other times it is like a gentle murmur. It may be that the speaker
makes himself visible in some form, either as a constellation, or
in the likeness of one of the supreme celestial princes. The ex­
perience of authentic raptures in the world of HurqalyA depends
on the magnificent prince, Hurakhsh,U the most sublime of those
wl}o have assumed a body, the greatly venerated one who, in the
terminology of the Oriental theosophy, is the Supreme Face of
God. It is he who sustains the meditation of the soul by lavish­
ing light upon it, and he is witness of its contemplation.10 There
are also visitations and communications from other celestial
princes. Sometimes the visitation consists of the manifestation
of certain of these celestial princes in epiphanic forms or places
appropriate to the moment when they show themselves to the
perfected recluse. Sometimes it is the souls of the past which
induce an awakening or an inner call. Sometimes the apparition
takes on human form, other times the form of a constellation,
• Pp. 494.-96, pars. 2 15-26.

Article I
or again that of a work of art, a statue uttering words, or else
a figure resembling the ikons seen in churches, likewise endowed
with speech. Sometimes the Manifestation takes form immedi­
ately after the shock of the enrapturing light; at other times it
comes only after the form of light. When the blazing light lasts
long, it obliterates the form; the figures are taken away and the
individual visitation is effaced. At that point one understands
that what is effaced is giving way to something of a higher or­
der . . . .
We deny the right to the Peripatetics to speak about the forms
and realities which become visible to the visionary contempla­
tives, for what is in question is a path which scarcely any of
them has followed and even in those very few cases the mystical
experience remained weak and precarious. The follower of the
mystical path who has received his initiation from a master with
theosophical11 experience, or thanks to the special divine assist­
ance which guides the solitary exile-the latter case being very
rare-will fully understand that the Peripatetics have entirely
overlooked two sublime universes which never figure in their
discussions, and that there are a number of other things that
remain beyond the scope of their philosophy.
( e )  F R O M  T H E  S A M E  W O R K "'
. · . . In short, the theosophist who has truly attained to mysti­
cal experience is one whose material body becomes like a tunic
which he 110metimes casts off and at other times puts on.12 No
man can be numbered among the mystical theosophists so long
as he has no knowledge of the most holy leaven of mystical
wisdom, and so long as he has not experienced this casting off
and this putting on. From that point, he ascends toward the
Light at will, and, if it pleases him, he can manifest himself in
whatever form he chooses. This power is produced in him by
the auroral Light ( nur shariq ) which irradiates his person. Do
you not see how it is when fire causes iron to become red hot,
that the iron takes on the appearance of fire; it irradiates and
.. Pp. 503-505 , pnrs. !2!23-!24.
1 24

Shihiibuddin r ahya SuiJ,rawardi
ignites? The same holds true for the soul whose substance is
that of the spiritual world. When it has undergone the action
of light and put on the robe of auroral Light/3 it too is able to
influence and to act; it makes a sign and the sign is obeyed; it
imagines and what it imagines comes to pass accordingly. Im­
postors beguile us with trickery, but the enlightened man, the
perfected man, the man in love with harmony, is immune from
evil and acts through the energy and with the help of the Light
because he himself is the child of the world of Light .
. If that which predominates in the essential substance of the
soul is the res victoria/is (al-amr al-qahri) ,  then the Light of
dawn rises on the soul in such a way that that part of the victoria}
realities emanating from the constellations and from the Angels
who are their theurgies, predominate in it. This is the supra­
sensory reality which the ancient Persians called X varnah
("Light of Glory," Khurrah in Persian ) .14 This is something
which, having arisen from astral incandescence, remains as a
dominating force in the human world; he who is invested
with it becomes a hero, a conqueror, a victor. If the Light of
dawn arising from the spiritual stars-pure spiritual entities
of light--corresponds to the capacity of the soul in a "dimension"
of desire and love, then what remains of the X varnah which
penetrates it will be manifested by causing its possessor to take
joy in subtle and refined things, by awakening in souls inclina­
tion and love toward him, by bringing men to sing his praises,
for the splendor communicated to his being derives from the
Angels and their beneficent theurgies, worthy of glorification and
of love. Finally, if there is balance and if the qualities of light
received from a sublime luminary through the intermediary of
the celestial prince are superabundant in him, u then he will
become a magnificent king, surrounded by respect, favored with
knowledge, perfection, and prosperity. And that alone is what is
called the royal X varnah ( Kayan Khurrah ) .  In its plenitude
this refers to the most majestic of categories, for it implies a per­
fect balance of light, besides the fact that the sublime Luminary
is the gateway to all the greater ecstasies.16
As for the fact of walking on water, gliding through the air,
1 25

Article I
reaching Heaven, seeing the Earth roll up like a carpet, these
are experiences known to a certain number of mystics, provided
that the Light which reaches them is created by the column of
dawn in the cities of the intermediate Orient,17 To be sure, all
this can be met with on the way followed by the mystics. Those
among them who are still only moderately advanced stop at that
point, but the perfected ones attach no importance to it. At all
events, we know no one in the sect of the Peripatetics who has
ever had a solid foundation in theosophical wisdom, I mean, in
the science of the pure Lights.
( f )  B o o K  O F  O R I E N TA L  T H E O S O P H Y ,_
In this, the last part of his great work, Suhrawardl has just
given an analytical description of how the mystics experience
light or photisms. These photisms can be classified experientially
in some fifteen categories. The author ends his analysis with
some observations which complete the passage just translated.
As in other passages in the same book, we have added to it
indispensable additional material from the commentator Qutb­
uddln Mal;lmiid Shirazi.
All these are illuminations ( ishriiqiit ) which rise over the
human soul when it is master of its body. Then they are re­
flected on the bodily habitation (the "temple") . These photisms
mark a half-way stage at which some stop. Sometimes these
Lights carry them, in such a way that they walk on the waters
and glide through the air. It may be that they ascend to Heaven,
but in a body which is their subtle body;18 then they become
united with certain of the celestial princes. But all such events
are dependent on the conditions of the Eighth Climate with its
cities, JAbalqa, JAbarҪA, and HQrqalyA, full of wonders.
Qu,buddfn Ma?lmiid ShiriJzf: The Eighth Climate is the
mundus archetypus ( 'illam al-mithiil ) ,  the world of Images and
archetypal Forms. Actually, the only universe that possesses
dimensions and extent is the one that is divided into eight
climates. Seven of them are the seven geographical climates with
dimensions and extent which are percc!ptihle to the senses. The
• P. 2.54, par. 117:1.
1 2fi

Shihiibuddin Y aiJ.yii. Suhrawardi
eighth climate is the one whose dimensions and extent can only
be grasped by the imaginative perception. This is the world of
autonomous Images and Forms (lit. "in suspension," that is, not
mixed with any corruptible substratum, but in suspense in the
way that an Image is suspended in a mirror) .  This is the world
of the subtle bodies, which alone are able to rise to heaven,
whereas material bodies, made of the substance of the Elements,
are fundamentally· incapable of this. This is what occurs to
certain of the mystics; most of the astonishing and extraordinary
things which are manifested in the case of the Prophets and the
Initiates result from their reaching and entering that world, of
which they know the epiphanic forms and characteristic proper­
ties. As for Jabalqa, Jibarųa, and Ho.rqalya, these are the names
of cities existing in the world of archetypal Images and the
Prophet himself was heard to pronounce these names. However,
a distinction must be made between Jabalql and JabarųA, which
are two cities belonging to the world of the Elements of the
world of the vchetypal Images, whereas Ho.rqalya, lies in the
Heavens of that same world.18
( g )  F R O M  T H E  S A M E  W O R K •
We have taught you that it is impossible for images to be
materially imprinted upon the eye; just as it is impossible for
them to be imprinted on some place in the brain. The truth is
that forms seen in mirrors, just like imaginative forms, are not
imprinted materially, either on the mirror or on the imagination.
No, they are "bodies in suspension,"20 not depending on a sub­
stratum (with which they would then be mixed, just as the color
black, for example, is mixed with a black object) .  They cer­
tainly have places where they appear, epiphanic places (m̞ahir),
but they are not materially contained in them. Certainly the
mirror is the place of the apparition of forms seen in it, but the
fonns themselves are "in suspension" there; there they are neither
like material things in a place in space, nor like an accident in
its substratum. Certainly the active imagination is the place of
• 1'. Si l l ,  par. 225.

Article I
apparition of imaginative forms, but the forms themselves are
"in suspense"; they are neither in this place, nor in the substra­
tum. Now if in the case of mirrors we accept the existence of
an autonomous image, even though it is only on the surface,
without depth or anything back of it, and even though that of
which it is the image is an accident (for example, the accidental
form of Zayd, immanent in his matter) , then one will admit a
fortiori the existence of a substantial quiddity, that of the arche­
type (substantial, in fact, since independent of any substratum)
having an accidental image (the form of Zayd immanent in his
matter) .  Thus imperfect light is analogous to perfect light. Un­
derstand.
Qutbuddin Shirazi: Therefore, imaginative forms exist neither
in thought, since the great cannot be imprinted in the small, nor
in concrete reality, otherwise anyone with normally healthy
senses would be able to see them. But they are not merely non­
being, for if so one could neither represent them to oneself, nor
distinguish them one from another, and different judgments of
them could not be formed. Since they are something with real
being and are neither in thought, nor in concrete reality, nor in
the world of the Intelligences--for they are corporealized forms,
not pure intelligibles--they must necessarily exist in some other
region and the latter is what is called the world of the archetypal
Image and of imaginati'Ve perception. It is a world intermediate
between the world of the Intelligence and the world of the senses;
its ontological plane is above the world of the senses and below
the intelligible world; it is more immaterial than the first, less
immaterial than the second. It is a world in which there exists
the totality of forms and figures, dimensions and bodies, with
all that is connected therewith: movements, rest, positions, con­
figuৃations, etc., all of them self-subsistent "in suspense," that
is to say, not being contained in a place nor depending on a
substratum.
"Understand," the author says to us. Here, indeed, we have a
magnificent secret, something of supreme importance. It means
that the totality of the things which exist in the higher world
have their nadir and their analogue in the lower world. All the!le
1 28

Shihabuddin Y al].ya Suhrawardi
things are known by their nadir and their analogue. Then, when
you have learned to know, as is necessary, the reality of ephem­
eral lights, your knowledge helps you to know the immaterial,
substantial Lights. The purpose of all this is that you should
know that the imperfect, accidental light which is that of the
sun of the sensory world is the image of the perfect substantial
light, which is the sun of the world of the Intelligence, the Light
of Lights. In the same way, the light of each ephemeral star is
the image of an immaterial substantial light. This is an im­
mense subject, offering many mystical experiences. Hence the
author's imperative: "Understand!"
( h) F R O M  T H E  S A M E  W O R K •
These autonOJDOUS Images and Forms are not the Platonic
Ideas, for the Ideas of Plato are of pure, immutable light,
whereas among the Forms in question there are some which are
dark-those which torment the reprobate; these are hideous,
repulsive, the sight of them causes the soul suffering, whereas
others are luminous and their sweetness is tasted by the blessed
and these are beautiful, resplendent Forms.21
Qutbuddin Shirazi: The Sages of old, such as Plato, Socrates,
Empedocles and others, not only affirmed the existence of the
Platonic Ideas, which are intelligible and made of pure light,
but also the existence of autonomous imaginative Forms which
are not immanent in a material substratum of our world. They
affirmed that these are separate substances, independent of "ma­
terial matters," that they have their seat in the meditative faculty
and in the soul's active Imagination, in the 'sense that these two
faculties are the epiphanic places where these Forms appear;
undoubtedly and concretely they exist, although this does not
mean that they are immanent in a substratum. The Sages af­
firmed the existence of a twofold universe: on the one hand, a
purely suprasensory universe, including the world of the Deity
and the world of angelic Intelligences; on the other hand, a world
of material Forms, that is, the world of the celestial Spheres and
• l'p. i:I0-:14, pars. 246-48.
1 29

Article I
Elements and the world of apparitional forms, namely, the world
of the autonomous Image . . . .  These Forms and Images have
no substratum in our material world, for otherwise they would
necessarily be perceptible to the outer senses and would not
not need places for their epiphany. They are, therefore, spiritual
substances, subsisting in and by themselves in the world of
imaginative perception, that is, in the spiritual universe.
Suhrawardi: I have witnessed in my soul some authentic and
unquestionable experiences which prove that the universes are
four in number: there is the world of dominant or archangelic
Lights ( Luces 'Victoriales, the Jabarat ) ;  there is the world of the
Lights governing bodies (the Souls, that is to say, the M alakat ) ;
there is a double barzakh and there is the world of autonomous
Images and Forms, some of them dark, some luminous, the first
constituting the imaginative torment of the reprobate, the second
the imaginative sweetness enjoyed by the blessed . . . .  This last
world is the one we call the world of the Apparentiae reales
which are independent of matter ('a/am al-ashba?z. al-mujarrada);
this is the universe in which the resurrection of bodies and divine
apparitions are realized and where all the prophetic promises are
fulfilled.
Qutbuddin Shirazi: So we have to understand that the first
of these universes is that of the separated intelligible Lights
which have no attachment of any kind to bodies; they are the
cohorts of the divine Majesty, Angels of the highest rank (An­
geli intellectuales ) .  The second universe is the world of the
Lights governing bodies, whether they be the Ispahbad22 of a
celestial Sphere (Angeli coelestes ) or of a human body. The
double barzakh constitutes the third universe; it is the world of
bodies perceptible to the senses (because everything which has
a body forms an interval, a distance, a barzakh ) .23 It is divided
into the world of the celestial Spheres with the astral bodies
they enclose, and the world of the Elements with their com­
pounds. Finally, the fourth universe is the world of the active
Imagination; this is an immense world, infinite, whose creatures
are in a term-for-term correspondence with those enclosed by
the sensory world in the double bar:wkll--thll llllrl und the com-
1 30

Shihabuddin T al}ya Suhrawardi
pounds of the Elements, minerals, vegetables, animals, and
man . . . .
It is to this last world that the Sages of old referred when they
say that there exists a world having dimensions and extent other
than the material sensible world. Infinite are its marvels, count­
less its cities. Amongst these are Jabalqa and Jabarųa, two im­
mense cities, each with a thousand gates. They are peopled by
countless creatures who are not even aware that God has cre­
ated terrestrial Adam and his posterity.
This world corresponds to the sensory world: its imaginative
celestial Spheres (that is to say, Hurqalya) are in perpetual
movement; its Elements (that is, Jabalqa and Jabarųa ) and their
compounds receive fr9m Hurqalya the influx and at the same time
the illuminations of the intelligible worlds. It is there that the
various kinds of autonomous archetypal Images are infinitely
realized, forming a hierarchy of degrees varying according to
their relative subtlety or density. The individuals peopling each
degree are infinite, although the degrees themselves are finite
in number. (Same work, p. 240: "On each of these levels species
exist analogous to those in our world, but they are infinite. Some
are peopled by Angels and the human Elect. Others are peopled
by Angels and genii, others by demons. God alone knows the
number of these levels and what they contain. The pilgrim rising
from one degree to another discovers on each higher level a
subtler state, a more entrancing beauty, a more intense spiritual­
ity, a more overflowing delight. The highest of these degrees
borders on that of the intelligible pure entities of light and very
closely resembles it.") The prophets, the Initiates, the mystical
theosophists have all acknowledged the existence of this universe.
The pilgrims of the spirit find there everything they need, all
the marvels and wondrous works they could wish . . . .
Through this universe are realized the divine apparitional
forms-sometimes majestic and dazzlingly beautiful, sometimes
awesome and horrifying-under which the First Cause mani­
fests itself. The same is true of the apparentiae reales under
which it pleases the First Intelligence and the other archangelic
I ntelligences to show themselves, because for each of them there
1 3 1

Article I
is a multitude of apparitions corresponding to the diverse forms
under which it may please them to manifest themselves. The
divine apparitional forms may have epiphanic places in our
world; when they are manifested here, it is possible to perceive
them visually. This was so in the case of Moses when God mani­
fested Himself to him on Mount Sinai, as described in the Torah.
Thus it was for the Prophet, who perceived the reality of the
Angel Gabriel when the latter manifested himself in the form
of the youth, Dal:tya al-Kalbl. It could be said that the whole
Imaginative universe is the epiphanic place of the Light of Lights
and of the immaterial beings of light, each manifested in a
definite form, at a definite moment, always corresponding to the
correlative fitness of the receptable and of the agent.
Lastly, when it is said that the promises of prophecy are ful­
filled in this universe, if this is understood as the torments suf­
fered by the people in hell and the delights tasted by those in
paradise, it is because the condition of the subtle body available
to the soul post mortem corresponds to that of the material,
sensory body. The subtle body also has outer senses and inner
senses and the fact remains that in the one case as in the other
the perceiving, feeling subject is never anything other than the
soul itself.
( i )  F R O M  T H E  S A M E  W O R K ,.
The suprasensory realities encountered by the prophets, the
Initiates, and others appear to them sometimes in the form of
lines of writing, sometimes in the hearing of a voice which may
be gentle and sweet and which can also be terrifying. Sometimes
they see human forms of extreme beauty who speak to them in
most beautiful words and converse with them intimately about
the invisible world; at other times these forms appear to them
like those delicate figures proceeding from the most refined art
of the painters. On occasion they are shown as if in an enclosure;
at other times the forms and figures appear suspended. Every­
thing which is perceived in dream-mountnimt, oceans, and
• l,p. 240-42, par11. 256-58.
1 32

Shihabuddin T a}Jya Suhrawardi
continents, extraordinary voices, human personages-all these
are so many figures and forms which are self-subsistent and
need no substratum. The same is true of perfumes, colors, and
flavors. How can the brain, or one of its cavities, contain the
mountains and oceans seen in a dream, whether the dream be
true or false, no matter how one conceives of, or explains, this
capacity? Just as the sleeper on awakening from his dreams, or
the imaginative man and the contemplative man, between the
waking state and sleep, returning from their vision, leave the
world of autonomous Images without having to make any move­
ment or without having the feeling of material distance in rela­
tion to it, in the same way he who dies to this world meets the
vision of the world of Light without having to make any move­
ment because he himself is in the world of Light . . . .
u
The celestial Spheres give out sounds ·which are not caused
by anything existing in our sublunar world. Moreover, we have
already proven that sound is something other than the undula­
tion of air. The most that can be said on this point is that here
below sound is conditioned by the undulation of air. But if a
thing is the condition of another in a certain place, it does not
follow that it remains a condition for its analogue. Just as any­
thing in general can have multiple, interchangeable causes, so
also its conditions can change. Just as the colors of the stars are
not conditioned by that which conditions the colors in our ter­
restial world, zs so it is as regards the sounds emitted by the
celestial spheres. We cannot say that the tremendous terrifying
sounds heard by the visionary mystics are caused by an undula­
tion of air in the brain. For an air-wave of such force due to
some disturbance in the brain is inconceivable. No, what we have
here is the archetypal Image of the sound, and this autonomous
Form is itself a sound [Commentary: Just as the archetypal
Image of man is certainly a man, and that of each thing is cer­
tainly respectively that thing]. Thus, it is conceivable that there
are sounds and melodies in the celestial Spheres which are
not conditioned by the air nor by a vibratory disturbance. And
one cannot imagine that there could be melodies more delightful
than theirs, just as one cannot conceive that there could be a

Article I
burning desire more ardent than the desire of the Angeli coeles­
tes. Hail! then, to the company of all who have become mad and
drunk with desire for the world of Light, with their passionate
love for the majesty of the Light of Lights, and who, in their
ecstasy, have become like the "Seven Very Firm Ones."28 Because
in their case there is a lesson for those who are capable of under­
standing.
Qutbuddin Shirazi: As the author mentioned in the Book of
Conversations, all the Spirituals of the different peoples have
affirmed the existence of these sonorities, not on the plane of
JAbalqa. and Ja.barųa, which are cities of the world of the Ele­
ments in the universe of the archetypal Forms, but on the plane
of Hurqalya, the third city, with its many marvels, the world of
the celestial Spheres of the universe of archetypal Forms.27 To
him who reaches this universe are revealed the spiritual entities
of these Spheres with their beautiful forms and exquisite sonori­
ties. Pythagoras related that his soul rose as far as the higher
world. Due to the purity of his being and to the divinatory power
of his heart, he heard the melodies of the Spheres and the sonori­
ties produced by the movements of the heavenly bodies; at the
same time he became aware of the discreet resonance of the voices
of their angels. Mterwards he returned to his material body. As
a result of what he had heard he determined the musical relation­
ships and perfected the science of music.

II
MUHYIDDIN IBN 'ARABI
(d. 6S8/1240)
The Earth Which Was Created from What Remained
of the Clay of Adam
Here the indescribable
actually takes place.
Fawt, Part II
The complete title of chapter VIII of Ibn •Arabi's great work,
Kitab al-futaf&at al-Makkiya ( The Book of the Spiritual Con­
quests of Mecca, Cairo, 1329/ 1 9 1 1 ,  I, 126-Sl ) ,  reads as fol­
lows: "On the knowledge of the Earth which was created from
what remained of the leaven of Adam's clay, and which is the
Earth of True Reality, mentioning the strange things and
marvels it contains." Like almost every chapter in this work,
this one opens with a few verses the allusive density of which
is hard to render. The leitmotiv is the palm tree as a symbol
of the celestial Earth. On the borderline between the vegetable
and the animal kingdoms, the palm tree has especially held the
attention of the Islamic philosophers as being an exceptional
creature. The celestial Earth being the inmost secret of man,
as it were, his mystic Eve, what is hidden in the words with
which the poet speaks to the palm tree that is its symbol begins,
in it;s turn, to be divined. As the symbol of this secret earth,
the palm tree, is "Adam's sister" ( the word palm tree, nakhla,
being feminine in Arabic ) .  "O my sister! or rather, 0 aunt!
perceptible to all, thou art the feminine lmim whose secret is
nevertheless unknown to us. The sons look toward thee, 0 sister
of their father .
•
.
.
0 aunt, tell me how the fraternal secret is
revealed in thee.
.
.
• Thou art the feminine Imam and the
lmim is thy brother; and those he precedes1 are so many images
drawn from himself."
All these allusions are explained up to a point in the first
lines of the chapter: The secret of the creation of the palm tree
made from the remainder of the clay from which Man himself
was created. And, of the clay from which his own "sister" was
molded, there was still an invisible remainder, the equivalent
of a se11ame seed, no more. But this very fact conveys the mean­
ing that there is no common measure between the expanse of
1 35

Article II
sensory space and that which begins at the point where the
directions of sensory space come to an end. For it is exactly
there that the limitless expanse of the celestial Earth will extend.
This means further that one can ''free oneself from space with­
out abandoning the sense of expanse." In his turn, 'Abd al-Karlm
Jill (below, Art. IV ) tries to make this symbol explicit: the
"Earth of sesame" is Adam's sister, or rather, the daughter of
his inmost secret. The lineage of the one is the lineage of the
other. It endures and continues to exist, whereas everything
else comes to nought. The fruit which is Adam himself sprang
from a palm tree. It has no other enclosure; the grove of palm
trees is nowhere else than in Adam himself. Thus they respond
reciprocally and spontaneously to each other's call. 2
Numerous references illustrating the functions of the palm
tree as a symbol of the celestial Earth and of resurrections need
to be collated. Moreover, as is known, the Qur'iinic revelation
makes no mention of the birth of Jesus at Bethlehem; on the
other hand, as though to recall or transpose some tidings of the
Infancy, it alludes to the miraculous birth "under the palm
tree." Between the "palm tree of Mary" and the palm which is
"Adam's sister" taken as a symbol of the celestial Earth, the
very one under which the infant Christ is born, certain Qur'iinic
commentaries allow us to discern the link.4 We cannot go into
this, no more than we can discuss here all the difficulties pre­
sented by the texts which we have attempted to translate for
the first time. Nevertheless, we should call attention again to
the thematic kinship between the present text dealing with ''the
Earth which was created from what remained of the clay of
Adam," and the text to be read later (below, Art. x, 1 )  making
explicit "in what sense the body of the faithful believer is the
Earth of his paradise."
Know that when God had created Adam who was the first
human organism to be constituted, and when he had established
him as the origin and archetype of all human bodies, there re­
mained a surplus of the leaven of the clay. From this surplus
God created the palm tree, so that this plant ( nakhla, palm tree,
being feminine ) is Adam's sister; for us, therefore, it is like an
aunt on our father's side. In theology it is so described and is
compared to the faithful believer.ৄ No other plant bears within
it such extraordinary secrets as are hidden in this one. Now,
after the creation of the palm tree, there remained hidden a
portion of the clay from which the plant hud ht'r.n made; what
1 36

Mul;tyiddin ibn 'Arabi
was left was the equivalent of a sesame seed. And it was in this
remainder that God laid out an immense Earth. Since he ar­
ranged in it the Throne and what it contains, the Firmament,•
the Heavens and the Earths, the worlds underground, all the
paradises and hells, this means that the whole of our universe
is to be found there in that Earth in its entirety, and yet the
whole of it together is like a ring lost in one of our deserts1 in
comparison with the immensity of that Earth. And that same
Earth has hidden in it so many marvels and strange things that
their number cannot be counted and our intelligence remains
dazed by them.
On that Earth God created in each soul (and corresponding
to each soul8 ) universes of praise in which canticles are sung
without ceasing by night and by day, for God's magnificence is
manifested on that Earth and His creative power dazzles the
eyes of him who contemplates it. A multitude of things exist
there which are rationally impossible, that is, a multitude of
things about which reason has established decisive proof that
they are incompatible with real being. And yet!-all these things
do indeed exist in that Earth. It is the vast prairie where the
theosopher-mystics feast their eyes; they move around in it, they
go and come in it as they will. In the whole of all the universes
that make up that Earth, God has especially created one universe
in our image (a universe corresponding to each one of us ) .  When
the mystic contemplates that universe, it is himself, his own soul,
that he contemplates in it. 'Abd Allah ibn 'Abbas was alluding
to something like that, in a saying of his reported in a certain
l,ladith : "This Ka'ba is one dwelling among fourteen dwellings.
In each of the seven Earths there is a creature like ourselves (our
homologue ) , so that in each of the seven Earths there is an Ibn
'AbbAs who is my homologue.''& This tradition has met with
widespread assent among visionary mystics.
Let us return to the description of that Earth, with its im­
mensity and the multitude of universes which have been consti­
tuted from it and in it. For the mystics, this Earth is where
theophanies and theophanic visions take place. One of them tells

Article II
us of a case which I myself know, from a personal vision: "In
that Earth," he tells us, "I happened one day to penetrate into
a gathering which was known as the Assembly of Mercy (Majlis
al-Ral)ma ) . I never saw an assembly more wonderful than that
one. While I was there, there came upon me suddenly a theo­
phanic vision; far from tearing me away from myself, it made me
more firmly in my own company. This is one of the peculiar
characteristics of that Earth. Indeed, when such theophanic vi­
sions come to mystics in our material world while they are pres­
ent to their· fleshly body they carry the ecstatic away from himself
and he is annihilated before his vision; so it was in the case of
the prophets, the great Initiates and all those who have experi­
enced such ecstasies. Likewise, the world of the celestial Spheres,
the Firmament (Kursi, the Heaven of the Fixed Stars ) ablaze
with constellations, the world of the Throne encircling the whole
cosmos are-all of them-reft from the ecstatics when the
theophanic visions come upon them; it is all destroyed as by
a flash of lightning. On the other hand, when the visionary mystic
has penetrated into this Earth of which I am speaking and when
a theophanic vision comes to him there, his contemplative per­
ception is not annihilated by it, it does not tear him from his act
of existing; it makes possible the coexistence in him of vision and
discourse."
He also says: "In this assembly I have just recalled, I went
through experiences and knew secrets that I am not able to tell
because of the abscondity of the things they mean and because
it is not possible to reach perception and understanding of them
before seeing them for oneself as they are seen by him who has
direct vision of them."
In that Earth there are gardens, paradises, animals, minerals
-God alone can know how many. Now, everything that is to be
found on that Earth, absolutely everything, is alive and speaks,
has a life analogous to that of every living being endowed with
thought and speech. Endowed with thought and speech, the
beings there correspond to what they are here below, with the
difference that in that celestial Earth thingH are permanent,

Mu}J.yiddin ibn 'Arabi
imperishable, unchangeable; their universe does not die. The
fact is that that Earth does not allow access to any of our physical
bodies made of perishable human clay; its nature is such that it
will allow access only to bodies of the same quality as that of
its own universe or of the world of Spirits. And so it is in their
spirit and not in their material body that the mystics enter into
it. They leave their fleshly habitation behind on our earthly Earth
and are immaterialized.10
A marvelous race of forms and figures exist on that Earth,
of an extraordinary nature. They keep watch over the entrances
of the ways of approach lying above this world in which we are,
Earth and Heaven, Paradise and Hell. Whenever one of us is
searching for the way of access to that Earth, the way of the
Initiates of whatever category it may be, whether men or genii,
Angels or dwellers in paradise-the first condition to be fulfilled
is the practice of mystical gnosis and withdrawal from the mate­
rial body. Then he meets those Forms who stand and keep watch
at the entrances to the ways of approach, God having especially
assigned them this task. One of them hastens towards the new­
comer, clothes him in a robe suitable to his rank, takes him by
the hand, and walks with him over that Earth and they do in it
as they will. He lingers to look at the divine works of art; every
stone, every tree, every village, every single thing he comes
across, he may speak with, if he wishes, as a man converses with
a companion. Certainly they speak different languages, but this
Earth has the gift, peculiar to it, of conferring on whomsoever
enters the ability to understand all the tongues that are spoken
there. When he has attained his object and thinks of returning
to his dwelling place, his companion goes with him and takes
him back to the place at which he entered. There she says good­
bye to him; she takes off the robe in which she had clothed him
and departs from him.11 But by then he has gathered a mass of
knowledge and indications and his knowledge of God has in­
creased by something he had not previously envisioned. I do not
think that understanding ever penetrates in depth with a speed
comparable to that with which it proceeds when it comes about

Article II
in that Earth of which I am speaking. The more so in that here
among us, in our own world and in our present existence, certain
manifestations come to support our assertion.
Then Ibn 'Arabi tells the tale of a strange thing that hap­
pened to an Iranian Ñufi, AwQaduddln Kirminl ( d. 624/
1 127 )12 during his adolescence; Kirminl himself told Ibn
'Arabi about it ( it will be noted that they met personally ) .
The young Ñufi wished to come to the help of his Shaikh, who
had fallen ill. On arriving at Takrlt in Mesopotamia, he asked
the Shaikh's permission to go and get some remedy from the
hospital in Sanjar. Moved by the grief of his young disciple,
the Shaikh gave him permission. So the young man went to the
mallis of the Amlr, but being unknown to him, he was intimi­
dated and afraid of being rebuffed. But the Amlr greeted him
with great kindness, asked what he wanted and commanded
a servant to give him what he asked for. The young Ñufi was
overwhelmed and triumphant and returned to his Shaikh, to
whom he told everything that had happened. But the Shaikh
smiled and said, "My child, I was inspired by my concern for
you. Seeing how sorry you were for me, I let you do what you
asked. But when you were gone, I was afraid that the Amlr
would put you to shame by refusing to receive you. So I sep­
arated myself from my own corporeal habitatiOn; I entered
that of the Amir and I sat down at his place. When you arrived,
it was I who greeted you and behaved toward you as you saw.
Then I returned to this habitation that you see. As a matter of
fact, I don't need this drug and have no use for it." "So here,"
said Ibn 'Arabi, "you see how a person was able to manifest
himself in the semblance of another man. What must it be in the
case of the inhabitants of that Earth of which we were speak­
ing?"
The following episode ( pp. 128-29 ) is in the form of a long
account by Dbu'l-Nun Mi11ri ( d. 245/869 ) who first tells us
that the time of that Earth is not uniform and all of one kind.
''The times of that Earth are qualitatively of different kinds."
Every event, every person, has its own time there. One day of
our earthly time may be the equivalent of a number of years.
Then Dhu'I-Nun describes at length the wonders of that Earth
in words reminiscent of the traditional stories about the moun­
tain Qaf, which is the psycho-cosmic mountain, like the Var of
Virna. There he visited the land of silver, the land of white
camphor, the land of saffron. He describes its wonders and
beauties, the charm and gentleness of the crrontures who people
it, their simple customs, the minerniK und prrdm111 11tones, the
colors which udorn it. The light whit·h t•ritcn• throrr l11 not that
} lj.()

Mul;ayiddin ibn 'Arabi
of the physical sun but nevertheless night and day alternate,
just as with us. However, the darkness of the nights there is
never a veil; it never prevents an object from being seen. There
they engage in combat which is merely a game without hatred
or wounds. Sea voyages are undertaken and enlivened by ship­
wrecks: for water is not a hostile element. It does not endanger
life. They walk on its surface until they come back to shore.
There are also earthquakes on that Earth more violent even
than those on our earthly earth. Dhfi'l-Nfin witnessed one of
them. When the tremor died down, the kindly beings surround­
ing him took him by the hand and consoled him regarding one
of his daughters called Fatima. "But I left her in good health
with her mother," he said. "What you say is true, but this earth
never trembles while one of you is with us unless he dies ( and
then remains definitely among us ) 9r one of his relatives dies.
This earthquake was the sign of the death of your daughter."
When Dhfi'l-Nfin had left these companions ( the ceremony of
the return is what is described above ) and returned to this
earth, he did learn of the passing of his daughter. We are bound
to abbreviate all these data as far as possible, the interest of
which from the viewpoint of religious phenomenology depends
on the principle already stated, namely: on that Earth every
soul has its own universe ( the palm tree, which is Adam's sis­
ter ) ; when the soul contemplates this universe, it is contem­
plating itself. It is in this sense that we should interpret another
vision described by Ibn 'Arabi: that of a Ka'ba whose pro­
portions surpass those of the temple that lies in Mecca. Those
who circumambulate it were not wearing the ritual pilgrim's
clothing. It had four pillars that spoke to those who walked
around them and initiated them into knowledge which they did
not previously have. ( See the symbol of the one visible pillar
of the temple, as Holy Spirit interpreting the Mystery, in our
Creative Imagination in the $afism of Ibn 'Arabl, p. 367, n.
44. ) There aȄain we find the same ocean, which is made of
earth, and which nevertheless behaves like water. ( Cf. below,
Art. IX, 4, b, the passage where the First Imam, on being asked
about the alchemical Work, affirms : "I call God to witness that
it is nothing other than Water in the solid state .
• . Earth in
the fluid state." ) And on this ocean is to be seen the vision of a
strange vessel made of magnificent stones:
two pillars rise
from its wings, the rear deck of the ship between the two
pillars ( the author even draws a plan of it) is open to the sea
but the sea does not come in. Then thirteen cities of light are
mentioned as being situated in that Earth into which only the
elect amongst the gnostics have access. ( The Shi'ite interpreta­
tion spontaneously discerns the Prophet and the twelve Imams
in these cities of light. ) There are many other details no less
rich in symbolic possibilities. . ; .

Article II
In short, everything that in our case the rational mind holds
to be impossible and finds proofs to support, we find in that
Earth to be not something impossible but something possible
which does in fact take place.13 "For God has power over all
things ( S : 26 and passim) ." We know that our intellect is
limited, but that God has power over the coincidentia opposi­
torum : the power to cause one body to exist in two different
places, the power to make the accidental subsist independently
of its substance and to transfer it from one substance to another,
the power to make the spiritual sense subsist thanks to the
spiritual sense alone (with no exoteric support) .  Every event,
prodigy, and sign which comes about in our world and of which
the rational mind is loath to admit the real apparition, in that
Earth we find takes place beyond a doubt as a real apparition.
Every body assumed by the spiritual, whether angel or genie,
every form or shape in which man looks upon himself in a dream,
all these are subtle bodies belonging to that other Earth. Each
of these bodies has its appropriate site there, with subtle
tenuous prolongations extending to the whole of its universe.
Each of these "tenuities" has a confidant who corresponds
to it. When the latter sees some particular spiritual entity with
his own eyes, it means he has a special affinity with such and
such a definite form among forms, that exact one which the Spirit
assumes, as when the Angel Gabriel assumed for the Prophet
the form of the handsome adolescent D৅ya al-Kalbr. The cause
of this is that God laid out this Earth in the barzakh, the inter­
world, and fixed a location there for these subtle bodies assumed
by pure spiritual beings, toward which our souls themselves are
transported during sleep and after death. This is why we are
ourselves a part of its universe.
, Lastly, that Earth opens out at one extremity onto Paradise:
that end of it is known as the forecourt or esplanade. And there
is another extremity which is adjacent to our earthly Earth. To
give a picture which will help you to grasp how it is that
that Earth can extend as far as our world, I suggest the follow­
ing comparison. Suppose a man fixes his gaze on a lamp, or on
the sun, or the moon, and then half shut• hi• eyeR 10 that his eyr.-
1 42

Muhyiddin ibn 'Arabi
lashes veil the luminous body from his gaze; then he will see
something like a multitude of lines of light stretching from the
luminous body to his eyes-a whole network starting from the
lamp, for example, and reaching right to his own eyes. When
the eyelids are slowly and gradually raised, the observer sees
the network of lines of light draw back little by little and gather
into the luminous body.
And so the luminous body is analogous here to the location
especially reserved in that Earth for such and such a form of
apparition (a subtle body clothing a spiritual entity) .  The ob­
server in this case represents our own world. As for the expan­
sion of the lines of light, this corresponds to the forms of the
subtle bodies in which our souls are transported to the threshold
of Paradise during sleep and after death, and which are like­
wise the apparitional forms assumed by the Spirits. Your inten­
tion to obtain a vision of the lines of light by covering your eye­
lids so that the lashes will come between your gaze and the
luminous body is in this case analogous to the capacity for vision­
ary apperception. The emission of lines of light from the lumi­
nous body when you make this experiment corresponds then to
the emission of the forms (which spiritual beings assume for
you ) when you have attained the capacity (to see in vision such
and such an apparitional form) . Lastly, the retraction of the
lines of light as they withdraw into the luminous body, as the in­
terposition of the eyelids ceases, represents the return of the
forms withdrawing into that Earth when your capacity to per­
ceive them comes to an end. There is no explanation beyond this
explanation. Moreover, we have already spoken at length in one
of our great works14 about the marvels in that Earth and the
knowledge connected with them.

I I I
DA''OD Q A  YmARI
(d. 751/ 1350 )
Mundus Archetypus "'
Know that the mundus archetypus (at-•atam al-mithiili, the
world of the archetypal Images ) 1 is a spiritual universe of lumi­
nous substance; on the one hand it has an affinity with material
substance, in that it is the object of perception and possesses ex­
tent; on the other hand, it has an affinity with separate intelligible
substance, in that its nature is that of pure light. It is neither a
compound material body, nor a separate intelligible substance,
because it is a barzakh, that is, an interworld, a limit, which
separates the one from the other. Everything which creates an
interval, a barzakh, between two things, must differ from these
two things, or rather, it is bound to have two dimensions through
each of which it symbolizes with the universe to which this
dimension corresponds. One can also say, it is true, that it is a
body of light equal in subtlety to the maximum of conceivable
subtlety. Thus, it is a limit, an interworld separating the purely
subtle separate substances and the dense and opaque material
substances, though among the latter also, certain bodies are more
subtle than others, as are the Heavens, for instance, compared
to the other bodies.
Therefore it is not an accidental world, as a certain thinker
believed, thinking-as he did-that Image-forms could be dis­
sociated from their substantial realities and that the same was
true in regard to intelligible forms. The truth is that substantial
forms exist in each of the universes: the spiritual universe, the
intelligible universe, the imaginative universe, and all these sub-
• Extract from the commentary on the FU!il, al·Ņikam of Ibn •Arabi,
ch. VII of the introduction. Bombay, 1 299/ 1 88 1 ,  pp. 30 ft'. and 1 300/
1 882, pp. 25 IT. It ia necessary to collate the two nditions.

Da'ud Qay,ari
stantial realities assume forms which correspond to their re­
spective universe.
When you have thoroughly understood what this is about,
you will observe that the imaginative power (the lmaginatrix )
which belongs to the Soul of the universe, and itself including
everything included by the other imaginative powers (those of
the Animae coelestes ) , is the substratum and epiphanic place
of this interworld.2 It is called the mundus archetypus because
it contains the Forms of everything existing in this world, and
because it is the archetype of all the Forms of the individuals
and essences existing on the plane of divine knowledge. It is also
called the world of the autonomous Imagination, because it is
immaterial in comparison with the immanent3 imagination.
There is no suprasensory reality, no spiritual entity nor Spirit,
that does not have an archetypal form corresponding to its per­
fections, since each of them participates in the divine Name "the
Revealed" ( al-̚iihir) . This is the meaning of a reliable tradition,
which relates that when the Prophet saw the Angel Gabriel at
the Lotus of the Limit,4 the Angel had six hundred wings; every
morning and evening he entered the river of Life; he came out
shaking his wfngs, and out of the scattered drops God created
countless Angels.
·
This interworld contains the Throne ( 'arsh, the supreme
Heaven ) ,  the Firmament (Kursi, the Heaven of the Fixed Stars),
the seven Heavens and the Earths, and everything all of these
contain. At that level, the consciousness of the seeker awakens;
he understands of what the Prophet's Mi'riij (heavenly assump­
tion ) consisted, how it was that the Prophet had the vision of
Adam in the first Heaven, the vision of John and Jesus in the
second Heaven, the vision of Joseph in the third, of Idrls (Enoch­
Hermes ) in the fourth, of Aaron in the fifth, of Moses in the
sixth, and of Abraham in the seventh. The seeker understands,
on the one hand, the difference there is between what he sees
in his dream and the ability of those moderately advanced in
the mystical path to realize imaginatively an ascent to Heaven,
and on the other hand, the difference from what is really con­
templuted in the spiritual world. · The forms perceived in our
1 45

Article Ill
world are the shadows of these archetypal Forms. That is why
the gnostic, through intuitive physiognomy, recognizes the
inner states of man according to his outer form. . . . In their
tum, the captive5 archetypal forms represented by our imagina­
tion are themselves only exemplifications of the spiritual world,
a shadow from among the shadows which God has created as
sign and proof of the existence of this spiritual world. That is
why the masters of mystical vision have seen the interworld as
something contiguous to the spiritual world, receiving light from
it, as streams and rivers issue into the sea, and as high windows
allow rays of light to enter a house.
For each of the beings existing in the world of the senses
there is, respectively, a captive archetypal form perceived in the
human world on the plane of the imagination, whether it be a
Heaven, a star, or an Element, a mineral, a plant, or an animal,
because there are a Spirit and spiritual energies for each of them,
and because the Spirit participates to a certain extent in this
world; otherwise, the universes would not correspond perfectly.
The most that can be said is that in the mineral world the mani­
festation is not the same as in the animal world. God himself
states: ''There is no thing which does not give praise by an act
of glorification proper to it, but you do not understand their
hymn of praise" ( 17: 46 ) . 6 This is confirmed by certain of our
traditions, which mention that animals see things which, among
human beings, can be seen only by the visionary mystics. It is
possible that this vision takes place in the absolute mundus arche­
typus, and it is possible that it takes place in the world of captive
archetypal forms/ God alone knows how it is!
But as for those human beings who are incapable of raising
the veil because of their blindness, the Holy Book places them
"at the lowest of the lowest degrees" ( 95 : 5 ) .  As for the mystic,
when he has arrived at the absolute mundus archetypus in the
course of his pilgrimage, thanks to the exodus that leads him
out of his captive imagination, he reaches the aim in everything
he contemplates, and discovers reality as it is, because the arche­
typal Images correspond with the intelligible Forms inscribed
on the tabula secreta, which is the munife .. ted form of the divine
1 4.()

Da'ud Qayƍari
world. From then on, through visionary apperception, it may
be that the human being will have his eternal individuality re­
vealed to him in its successive states, past and future, because
he is then transported from the world of Shadow to the world of
real and essential Lights. . . .
Finally, it is important for you to know that the barzakh in
which the Spirits find themselves after they have left the terres­
trial world is different from the barzakh which extends between
the pure spiritual entities and the world of bodies. The fact is
that the stages of the being's descent and the steps of his ascent
form a cycle. Now, the stages which precede existence in the
terrestrial world are degrees of descent; they are anterior; where­
as those degrees which come after existence in the world are
degrees of ascent; they are posterior. Besides, the Forms with
which the Spirits are reunited in the second barzakh are the forms
of their works and the result of their prior activities in this ter­
restrial world, 8 unlike the forms of the first barzakh. Hence, the
latter cannot be identical with the former. Nevertheless, they
have this in common: in both cases the Forms are a spiritual
universe and are immaterial substances of pure Light, contain­
ing the archetypes of the forms of this world. The Shaikh (Ibn
'Arabi) ,  in chapter 321 of The Book of the Spiritual Conquests
of Mecca,9 demonstrates clearly that the second barzakh is dif­
ferent from the first. He calls the latter the "mystery of the pos­
sible," whereas he calls the former the "mystery of the impos­
sible," in the sense that what exists in the first can be manifested
in our visible world, whereas it is not possible for that which
is in the second to return to the visible state, except on the Day
of Judgment. Very few are those to whom this second barzakh
is revealed. The first, on the other hand, may be revealed to a
good many among us and seen with our own eyes. Such people
can have knowledge of future events in the world, but not the
power to discover the condition of those who have left this world.

I V
• ABD AL-KARIM JILl
(d. 805/ 1403 )
The text translated below is taken from the best-known work
of •Abd al-Karrm Jill, the Book of the Perfect Man (Kitab al­
insan al-kcimil ) ,  Cairo, 1304/ 1886. There is urgent need for
a critical edition which would provide a better basis for reading
this text. The theme of ch. vn ( n ,  27-28 ) is that "the Imagina­
tion is the substance ( hayulii, matter ) of all the universes."
Some preliminary and very summary remarks : one is struck,
from the very beginning of the chapter, by the all-importance
attributed to the imaginative power ( the "lmaginatrix" ) -it is
"the life of the Spirit of the universe, its principle, its own
principle being the son of Adam." Jill, like Ibn •Arabi, regards
the imaginative power as the very secret of cosmogony viewed
as theophany, of creation as divine self-revelation. The mystic
is even said to encounter here a higher spiritual entity called
the "Spirit of Imagination" and "Spirit of Paradise." But sud­
denly we remember the warning of the Prophet: the slumber
of humans asleep in the unconsciousness of dreams that are
the world of imagination. Actually, there is no contradiction
or dissonance here, for what is implicit is the secret of the
knowledge on which it depends whether a man remains un­
conscious or takes his place among the Watchers of al-A•raf.
Since all the planes of the universe are so many theophanic
acts issuing from the absolute Divine Imagination, there could
be no question of reabsorbing, denying, or annihilating them
without going counter to the theophanic divine Will. Such a
revolt is precisely what creates the condition of the peoples of
Hell, because they have not understood. But Jill makes it pos­
sible for us to understand, by making a distinction similar to
the one already pointed out to us ( see above, Art. m ,  n. 3 ) .
Imagination considered in its totality has a twofold principle,
a twofold source: on the one hand, it is active configuration and
, belongs to the world of superexistence ( the world of absolute
Imagination, the world of Malakut, the world of the Soul ) ;  on
the other hand, it is the imagined image, the formed image,
the perishable representation ( the images held "captive" in the
faculties of man in his present condition ) .  The sleep of un­
consciousness means ignorance of the true nature of sensory
perceptions. It means passive subjection-as though they were
material-to data ( empirical, historical, and so forth ) created
1 48

'Ahd ai-Karim Jili, §1
by a power i n  himself of which man remains unconscious and
unaware. It means complete subservience to these data, and
this is why Jill explains ( n, 59-60 ) that this slavery is exactly
the condition of Hell which is a misinterpretation of, or rebel­
lion against, theophany as such; because in the ignorance of
what theophany is, man puts the yoke of enslaving objectiviza­
tions in its place.
By contrast, the paradisal condition is the overcoming of this
slavery because one has become aware of the secret law of the
universe as a theophany, and because one is in accord with
that secret. In the case of him who attains this knowledge, "God
sets him up as a judge to decide the realities of the universe."
This consciousness, this awakening from the dogmatic sleep
that was a slavery to the authority of outer things, is known
as the reciprocal compresence of creator-being and creatural­
being. Because he has understood the data, and so is no longer
under their yoke, the mystic is compresent to the presence of the
Giver of these data. From then on, the theophanic Imagination
becomes lmaginatio vera, the very secret of the power creating
all the universes, and that is what it means "to be a Watcher"
( an Egregoros ) ,  one of the men of al-A'raf. He who has at­
tained the knowlege of the law that gives structure to this
universe, and has available to him at will all that his knowledge
has made real, is in al-A'raf, the place of divine Proximity,
alluded to in the Qur'anic verse: "Dwelling place of truth, close
to a powerful king" ( 54: 55 ) .  That is why all our authors
explain the mysterious term al-A'raf by the very root from
which the word comes: ma'rifa: knowledge of gnosis, knowl­
edge which is spiritual realization.
There are very many traditions about al-A'raf and an entire
book would be needed to coordinate them and extract their
meaning. In Shl'ism they abound ( see Safina, II, 1 82 ) .  For
Shaikh Mufld, who expresses a general opinion on this point,
it is a mountain or a rampart, a place intermediate between
Paradise and Hell. The Qur'anic verses ( 7 :  44 and 46 ) call
al-A'raf the rampart where there exist men endowed with the
power of physiognomic discernment, that is, they are capable
of recognizing each one's inner essence from his physiognomy.
For Shl'ite theologians, these men of al-A'raf are the Fourteen
Very-Pure ( the Prophet, Fatima, and the twelve Imams ) : only
he enters Paradise who is recognized by them, but they pre­
cisely can only recognize him who has himself known them.
This recognition is therefore likewise a compresence, for it is
being known while knowing, that is, in the very act of knowing,
in such a way that the inner and the outer act reciprocally. And
so this compresence in knowing and being known depends on
thr. theor.hanic function of the person of the holy Imams. Hence
thr MiKntficnnce of the place of al-A'raf is esoter1cism in general.

Article IV
Al-A•raf is the "height that overlooks," that from which and
by which theophanic perception as such is possible, namely:
the visionary apperception of the divine Being as He is epipha­
nized in each thing, with His Attributes of which each thing is
a theophanic form.
An all-important point that follows is that our authors relate
the term, al-A•raf, as a "dominant height" or "promontory,"
with one of the Prophet's fladith that governs the entire esoteric
hermeneutic of the Qur'an: each verse has an exoteric aspect
(;a/air, the literal text is recited ) , an esoteric aspect ( bti#n,
the hidden meaning that must be understood ) , a definitive
aspect (!Jadd, fixing practical conduct ) and a "height of aim,"
which is what God aims to actualize in man and through man.
This fladith has been enriched from Imam to Imam with vari­
ations and amplifications which have become traditional ( the
seven esoteric meanings, the nine planes of reference, and so
forth ) . ROzbihan and others mention them in the beginning of
their Tafsir. Al-A•raf is thus the ''promontory," the height that
must be attained and "realized" in order to perceive the spiritual
meaning, or rather to attain it-this is just the point: to per­
ceive, to "realize," the spiritual meaning of the Revelations, the
"spiritual history" which is the invisible dimension of literal
data and earthly events. The mystics, having themselves been
known and recognized to the same degree that they are knowers,
become in their tum "men of al-A•raf." That is why they are the
theo-sophoi ( al-•arifun bi'lltih ) ,  for one who knows God knows
the structure of the other world.
There is yet another mystical place in the other world, close to
al-A•raf, which is mentioned in our text and it will be useful at
this point to give Jill's own explanation ( II, 59-60 ) .  This is
the place known as al-Kathib, the "dune" or "region of the
dunes." We learn that it is a region or plane situated below
al-A•raf. The difference between the inhabitants of the Kathib
and those of al-A•raf is that the former left our world before
God had shown himself to them. When they emigrated to the
other world, their place of sojourn was then Paradise and from
there God sometimes brings them out in the direction of al­
Kathib in order to show himself to them there, that is to say,
to show himself to each according to his faith and to the knowl­
edge he had of God. The inhabitants of al-A•raf, on the other
hand, are Spirituals to whom God manifested himself ( tajalli,
theophany ) before they left this world and who therefore al­
ready had a vision of Him here in this world of ours. For them,
there is no dwelling place beyond the world except in God, "for
if one arrives in a country where a friend resides, that friend
cannot let him make his home anywhere but with himself."
On other pages ( II 1 70 ) 1 in the course of 11 hlȈrhly developed
1 50

'Abd al-Karim Jili, §1
imaginative topography describing the seven Heavens and the
seven Earths ( see the text translated below, Art. x, § 1 ) , Jill
refers again to the mysterious country Ta!J, the country of the
"men of the Invisible," who recognize no one but the prophet
KhiŁr ( Kha<Jir ) as their overlord. The passage translated be­
low describes the entry of the spiritual pilgrim into that country.
In this case, the celestial Earth, which is the first of the earths,
is called the "Earth of souls," and is described in terms that use
the symbols of the North ( see above, Part One, Ch. n, § 1 ,
last part in fine, and § 2 ) and thus we here again, in Islamic
gnosis, the theme of the "hyperborean Paradise" ( cf. the Var
of Virna ) .  It is an earth which was created whiter than milk,
softer than musk. When Adam was exiled from the earth, it
took on the color of dust, except for a region in the extreme
north, governed by Khȅr, inhabited by the "men of the Invisi­
ble," and to which no sinner can gain access. It is the country
of the "midnight sun": there the evening Prayer is not obliga­
tory, for dawn rises before the sun sets.
1 .  Al-A'raf, the Earth of the Watchers
Apart from Heaven's Eternity
And yet how far from Hell!
Edgar Allan Poe, Al-Aaraf
Know-may God bring you help!-that Imagination is the
principle and source of being; it is the essence that contains the
perfection of theophany (?:uhar al-ma'bad, 'the epiphany of
the Adored') .  Meditate on your personal faith concerning the
Divine Being. Do you not see that this faith is attached to cer­
tain attributes and Names that it includes for you? Where is the
place, what is the organ of this intimate conviction in which
God Most High reveals Himself to you? This place, this organ
is precisely the Imagination, and exactly for that reason we
affirm that the Imagination is the essence in which the perfection
of theophany resides.
As soon as you have become aware of that, it becomes evident
to you that the Imagination is the principle and source of the
entire universe, because the Divine Being is Himself the princi­
ple and origin of all things, and because the most perfect of
His epiphanies can take place only in a receptacle which is
itHdf origin and principle. This substratum is the Imagination.
15 1

Article IV
From that moment, it is certain that the Imagination is the
principle and source of all the universes without exception.
Now, do you not see how the Prophet perceived what is the
object of sense perception as a dream, and this dream as an
imagination? "Humans are asleep," he said. "It is when they die
that they awake."1 This means that at that moment, in their
true sense, the realities that were right beside them in this world
are revealed, and it is then that they understand that they were
asleep. This does not mean that death produces total Awakening.
For unconsciousness of God hangs over the inhabitants of the
interworld (the barzakh ) as well as over the men of the Last
Day, as well over the inhabitants of hell as over the inhabitants
of paradise, until the Divine Being shows Himself to them in
the "region of the dunes,"2 toward which the inhabitants of
paradise sometimes emerge and then contemplate God.
This unconsciousness is sleep. The principle and source of all
the universes is Imagination. That is why Imagination con­
nects all the individuals who are in these universes. Each of the
communities is connected by the imagined image in whichever
universe it may happen to be. The inhabitants of this world, for
example, are linked together by the imagination of daily life or
by that of the future life (by wanting to "ensure" one and the
other) .  Now the one and the other involve unawareness of re­
ciprocal compresence with God.3 That is why these people are
asleep, whereas one who is compresent with the Divine Pres­
ence is a Watcher, an Awakened One ( an E gre goros• ) ; his
degree of awakening is proportionate to his reciprocal com­
presence with God.
In their turn, the inhabitants of the interworld (the barzakh )
are also sleeping people, although their sleep is lighter than that
of certain people of our world. In effect, they are quite preoccu­
pied by anguish or enjoyment, which are both something which
is themselves, proceeds from themselves, and something in
which they themselves are. Now that is also sleep, because they
are equally inattentive and unconscious of God. The same is
true of the men of the Last Day, for although they stand before
God for the "rendering of accounts," thry nrr nnnrtheless with
1 .12

'Abd al-Karim Jili, §2
their "rendering of accounts," they are not compresent with God.
And that is sleep, because it is unawareness. However their
sleep is lighter than that of the inhabitants of the interworld.
Thus it is the same for those who live in Paradise, and still more
for those who live in Hell. The first are with the enjoyment that
they experience; the second are with the anguish that they expe­
rience. And that again is to be unaware of God. It is sleep, it is
not a state of wakefulness. However, the sleep of the inhabitants
of Paradise is lighter than that of the men of the Last Day.
Therefore, in this way, sleep is like a law of nature for all,
in the sense that each inhabitant of all the universes, while being,
in a certain sense, compresent with the Divine Being as such,
since the Divine Being is compresent with being in its totality­
He says of Himself: "He is with you wherever you are ( 57: 4 ) "
-nevertheless, all are compresent with Him only in a dream,
not in a state of conscious wakefulness.
That is why there is awakening and a state of wakefulness
only for the inhabitants of al-A 'riif and for those in the "region
of the dunes."' For they are in reciprocal compresence with God,
and their degree of awakening is in proportion to the theophany
that is manifested to them. God has shown Himself to the man
who, because of a divine predisposition, obtains from God, here
in this world, what is produced only later in the "region of the
dunes" for the inhabitants of paradise,0 and to him God shows
Himself and he knows Him. He is therefore a Watcher ( T aǐiin,
an Egregoros ) .  And for that reason, the prince of all the Spirit­
uals who have reached this dwelling has proclaimed that men
are asleep. It was because he himself was a Watcher and knew.
Therefore, now that you have understood that the inhabitants
of each of the universes are under the law of sleep, declare that
all the universes are so many imagined images, for dream is the
world of imagination.
2. The Journey of the Stranger and the
Conversation with Khiir
Thr. Stranger, called by the name of Spirit,7 journeyed until
hr hnd rr.nchr.d the country ':nllcd the country of TaǑ.· When he

Article IV
reached that heaven, he knocked on the door of the forbidden
threshold.
A voice asked him, "Who are you, the lover knocking on the
gate?"
He answered, "One faithful in love, separated from his own. I
have been banished from your country. I have wandered far from
those like you. I have been bound to the impediments of height
and depth, of length and width. I have been imprisoned in the
jail of Fire and Water, of Air and Earth. 9 But now that I have
severed my bonds, I start to seek an escape from the prison where
I had remained . . . .  "
Then he found himself in the presence of a personage with
white hair, who said to him, "Know that the world to which
you return is the world of Mystery ( •iiJam al-ghayb, the world of
the suprasensory ) . The men belonging10 to it are great in num­
ber; they are sensitively helpful; they possess powerful methods;
they provide plenty of scope. He who aspires to rejoin them and
to present himself to them, must don their magnificent dress and
be perfumed with their soft perfume."
"Where do I procure garments? Where are these perfumes
sold?"
''The garments can be found in the market of sesame left over
as surplus from the remainder of the clay of Adam.11 As for the
perfumes, they can be obtained on the Earth of the Imagination."
If you prefer, you may reverse this explanation: in that case
borrow the clothing from the cloth of the Imagination and the
perfume from the Earth of sesame. For they are unquestionably
two brothers (or two sisters ) , both belong to the same world
called the world of Mystery or world of the suprasensory.12
"Then I went away, first toward the Earth of Perfection, the
original appearance of Beauty, called because of its aspects,
'World of Imagination.' In that very place I turned toward a
personage in a sublime condition, of a high rank, and with
sovereign power. He bore the name: 'Spirit of Imagination' ( ra?z
al-khayal ) and a surname: 'Spirit of Paradise' ( ra?z al-jinan ) .
When I had greeted him and stopped respectfully in front of
him, he answered me with many welcoming greetings.

'Abd al-Karim Jili, §2
"I said to him, 'Oh my lord, what is this world called the
sesame left over from the clay of Adam?'11
" 'That is the subtle world,' he said to me, 'a world forever
imperishable, a place that does not pass away with the succession
of nights and days. God created it from that clay; he selected
this seed from out of the whole mould, then he invested it with an
authority that extended to everything, to the great as to the
humble
.
.
.
.

u It is an Earth where the impossible becomes pos­
sible, where the pure figures of Imagination are contemplated
with the senses.'
" 'Will I find a road leading to this extraordinary dwelling, to
this strange world?'
" 'Certainly! When your active imagination will have at­
tained all its perfection and all its plenitude, your capacity will
expand till it makes possible the impossible, till it contemplates
suprasensory realities of the Imagination under a sensory mode,
till it understands allusive signs and deciphers the secret of the
diacritical points of letters. Then you will have woven a garment
from these suprasensory realities; when you have put it on, open
for yourself a door giving access to the sesame.'
" 'Oh my Lord, I fulfil the conditions, for I am already here
and now bound by the cable of the concluded pact. I already
know, through revelation and personal discovery, that the world
of pure spiritual Entities is more manifest and stronger than the
world perceived by the senses, as much for intimate experience
as for visionary intuitioQ.'
"Then, after a murmur, he made a sign with his hand, and
then I found myself on the Earth of sesame
.
.
•
•

u
"When I had penetrated into this marvelous Earth and was
perfumed with its strangely sweet perfumes, when I had con­
templated its marvels and strangeness, things so beautiful and
so rare that they have still not entered into your thought and
cannot be seen either in our world or even in our imaginable
world, I sought to ascend to the world of Mystery.
"At that moment I again found the Shaikh who had been my
first guide, but I ascertained that practice of the divine service
hncl mncle him so slim that he seemed to be a pure apparition,

Article IV
and that he had grown thinner than one would have thought
possible. In spite of that, he had preserved all his inner strength
and the same creative spiritual energy;18 he was just as impetuous
and resolute as before, just as prompt both to sit down and to
stand up, his brightness was like that of the full moon.
"Having greeted him and my greeting having been returned,
I said to him, 'I wish to obtain access to the men of the world of
Mystery ( rijdl al-ghayb, the Invisible Ones, the Superhuman
Ones ) .  There is no doubt that I fulfil the conditions.'
" 'Then it is the time to enter,' he said to me. 'The time to
reunite has come.' With his ring he knocked on the door which
remained closed hitherto and it opened very widely. I penetrated
into the city of the marvelous Earth; its length and breadth are
immense, its inhabitants have a knowledge of God such as is
possessed by no other creature. There is no man among them
who lets himself be distracted. Its soil is a pure and very white
wheat flour; its Heaven is of green emerald. Its sedentary in­
habitants are of a pure race and of high nobility; they recognize
no other king than Khi=?r ( al-Khac;lir) ,11 It was precisely with
him that I deposited my luggage. Entering into his presence,
I kneeled down and proceeded to present my greetings. In his
turn, he bid me welcome as does one friend to another. Then
he invited me to be his guest, and with a smile that put me per­
fectly at ease, he said to me, 'Well! Now say what you have to
say.'
"
'My lord,' I said, 'I would like to question you about your
sublime situation since your condition is so difficult to conceive
that our words become entangled when we wish to describe it,
although some people blindly persist in so doing.'
" 'I am,' he said to me,18 'transcendent reality, and I am the
tenuous thread that brings it very close.10 I am the secret of man
in his act of existing, and I am that invisible one (al-ba#n, the
absconditum, the esoteric ) who is the object of worship. I am
the cylinder that contains the Essences, and I am the multitude
of tenuous threads projected forth as mediators. I am the Shaikh
with the divine nature, and I am the guardian of the world of
human nature.20 I cause myself to be in every concept and to

•Abd al-Karim Jili, §2
be manifested in every dwelling. I appear epiphanized through
every form, and I make a "sign" visible in every SQra. My con­
dition is to be esoteric, unusual. My situation is to be the
Stranger, the traveler. My permanent dwelling place is the moun­
tain of QM.21 My halting place is the A•raf.22 I am he who stands
at the confluence of the two seas, the one who plunges into the
river of the Where, the one who drinks from the source of the
source.23 I am the guide of the fish in the sea of divinity.u I am
the secret of the embryo, and I already bear the adolescent. I am
the initiator of Moses. 25 I am the First and the Last diacritical
point.28 I am the unique Pole that is the sum of all. I am the
Light that scintillates. I am the full moon rising. I am the de­
cisive word. I am the splendor of consciences. I am the desire
of the seekers. Only the Perfect Man ( al-insiin al-kiimil ) , the
ingathered Spirit, reaches and finds access to me. As for all the
others, my rank is well above the dwelling place where they are
established. They have no knowledge of me; they see no vestige
of me. On the other hand, their dogmatic belief takes shape for
them in some one of the forms of religion professed by men.
They masquerade ridiculously in my name; they paint my sym­
bol on their cheek. Then the ignorant, the inexperienced, rests
his gaze there, and he imagines that indeed to be what bears
the name Khi?;r. But how is that related to me, what have I to
do with that? Or rather, what is this poor cup in relation to my
jar? Unless it is said, in truth, that this is also a drop of my
ocean, or an hour of my eternity, since its reality is that of a
tenuous thread among my tenuities, 27 and that the way followed
by those is a way among my ways. Then, in this sense, I am
also this fallacious star.'
" 'What is the distinctive sign?' I asked him then, 'the symbol
of one who reaches you, of one who takes up lodging in your
outer sanctuary near you?'
" 'His distinctive sign,' he said to me, 'is concealed in the
knowledge of the creative power, its exalted knowledge is in­
volved in the science of the essencification of the Essences.'
"Then I questioned him on the different categories of the 'men
of thb l nviNihle' ( rijcll al-!{hayb, those of the world of Mystery ) .28
1 ,1;7

Article IV
" 'There are some among them,' he said to me, 'who are
Adamites, and there are some among them who are pure spirit­
ual entities. They form six categories differing as to rank.
" 'The first category is the preeminent one; they are the Per­
fect Ones, the great Initiates who follow in the footsteps of the
prophets2' and who remain invisible to the creatures of this
world, because they are hidden in the Mystery which is desig­
nated as the plane on which the Merciful80 is enthroned. They
are not known, they cannot be described, although they are
Adamites.
" 'The second category consists of the intimates of supra­
sensory planes, the Spirits that inspire the hearts. 81 The spiritual
Guide manifests by taking their form, in order that mortals be
led by them to inner and outer perfection. They are Spirits; they
are, so to speak, pure apparitional forms, in that they have the
faculty of producing a visual representation of themselves. They
travel, taking their departure from this visible world; they reach
as far as the field of the mystery of being. Afterwards, they may
pass from the hidden to the visible state. Their breath is entirely
a divine service. They are the pillars of the Earth, 82 keeping
watch for God over the tradition and precepts.
" 'The third category are the Angels of inspiration and im­
pulses who, during the night visit the Initiates and converse
with the Spirituals; they do not show themselves in the world
of sensory perception; they are not known by ordinary men.
" 'The fourth category are the men of confidential psalms
throughout their ecstasy. They are perpetually out of their
world. If one ever meets them, it is always in another place
than where they were supposed to be found. They manifest to
other men by taking form in the world of sensory perception.
When the Spirituals happen to meet them on these detours, they
initiate them into the mysteries of the invisible and inform them
of realities kept secret.
" 'The fifth category are the men of the wild lands; they are
the privileged in the world. They are a race of Adamites, they
can make themselves visible to humans, then they conceal them­
selves. When they are addressed, they answer. Most often,
15R

'Abd al-Karim Jili, §2
their dwellings are in the mountains and in the deserts, in
streambeds or on riverbanks. Sometimes there are sedentary
ones among them; then they choose among the cities some dwell­
ing where they elect to reside; but it is not a place in which they
would put their trust, any more than it satisfies the desired am­
bitions.
" 'The sixth category are those who resemble sudden inspira­
tions of thought, having nothing in common with demonic sug­
gestions. They are children whose father is mental discourse
and whose mother is the active imagination. No one pays any
attention to what they say; their like do not inspire ardent de­
sire. They are between the false and the true; they are both
people who have lifted the Veil and people who remain in front
of the Veil. "And God is the True, he is the guide on the Way"
(33 :4 ) .  "Near him is the archetype of the Book" ( 13: 39,
umm al-kitab, "the mother of the Book") .' "
1 59

v
SHAMSUDDIN MUI:IAMMAD LAHUl
(d. 869/1465 )
Jabalqa and Jabarha*
In the accounts and books of traditional history, mention is
made that J abalqa is an immense city situated in the East, where­
as Jabaril is a city just as large and spacious, situated in the
West, opposite Jabalqa. The masters in the hermeneutics of
symbols have made this the subject of numerous commentaries.
The idea I have myself arrived at from quite independent thought
can be summarized very simply as follows, under two headings:
First, Jabalqa is the mundus archetypus located to the East,
and turned toward the spiritual entities; it is the interworld
( barzakh ) between the suprasensory world and the world visible
to the senses. It contains all the archetypes of the universe, and
thus of necessity is an immense city. Jabarθa, to the West, is the
world of the Image, the interworld in which the Spirits dwell
when they have left the world of earthly existence.1 That is the
very place where the Forms of all completed works exist, the
Forms of all moral behavior and good and bad actions, those
which have been acquired in the course of earthly existence, as
witnessed by the verses of the Qur'i!.n and our l)adith. Thus,
Jabarθii is the interworld situated in the West, and turned to­
ward the material bodies; of necessity, it is also an immense city
and faces Jabalqa. The structure of Jabalqii is more subtle and
more pure, since that of Jabarθll, being in terms of created works
and moral behavior acquired in the world of earthly existence,
is to a great extent made up of forms and figures enveloped in
darkness.
• Extract from the Persian commentary on the "Rose Garden of the
Mystery" ( Gulshan-i Riiz ) ,  a mystical poem by Mnl,unOd Shabisturt ( d .
720/ 1 320 ) .  Edition o f  Kuyvlln Snmt't, Trhrrn n ,  I :1 7 H /  I U.'H, p p .  1 34 · · 3(i.
1 (j()

Shamsuddin Mu}J.ammad Lahiji
Most people take these two interworlds ( barzakh ) as being
only one. However, it is important to recognize that the inter­
world where the Spirits are after they have been separated from
earthly existence is different from the interworld which extends
between the pure spiritual entities and the material bodies. In
fact the descending degrees of being on the one hand, and the
ascending degrees on the other, together form a cycle, in which
the junction of the final point and the initial point can only be
represented as a movement of complete revolution. The inter­
world preceding the sphere of earthly existence is part of the se­
ries of the descending degrees of being; with respect to earthly
existence, this interworld has priority and anteriority, whereas
the one succeeding earthly existence is part of the ascending de­
grees; with respect to earthly existence, its rank is ulterior and
posterior.
Besides, the forms which again rejoin the Spirits in the second
interworld are the forms of their works, the resultants of their
acts, of habits acquired and behavior actualized by them in the
earthly world. Now this is not the case with the archetypal Forms
of the first interworld; hence, there is a very clear difference be­
tween the one and the other. On the other hand, the two inter­
worlds have in common that they are two spiritual universes,
that they have light as substance, that they are immaterial, and
that they contain the autonomous Forms and Images of the uni­
verse.
Shaikh Da'nd Qayিarl draws special attention to the pages
of Shaikh Mul}yiddln Ibn 'Arabi's book entitled The Spirit­
ual Conquests of Mecca2 in which the author clearly states
that there is no doubt that the second interworld is different from
the first. He calls the latter the mystery of the Possible (or
Futurable ) whereas he calls the second the mystery of the Im­
possible (or Irreversible ) .  These two appellations mean that if,
on the one hand, it is possible for every form or archetypal figure
existing in the first interworld to be manifested in the visible
world, it is, on the other hand, impossible for a Form transposed
to the Hecond world to come back to the visible world, unless it
llf' in th௠ 1wrc1tlum vcnturu m .  M·any are the visionary mystics,
1 6 1

Article V
to whom the Forms of the' first interworld are manifested as
apparitions, and who thus have foreknowledge of events in our
world. But only a very few visionaries have knowledge of the
posthumous state of those who have departed from it.
Secondly, I would like to point out the following: Since the
city of JAbalqA is the divine plane characterized by the "con­
fluence of the two seas,"3 that is, the confluence of the necessary
mode of being and the possible mode of being, we can under­
stand that in it are contained the Forms and Images of the uni­
versality of things and beings, in all their degrees: general and
individual, subtle and dense, works and actions, way of being
and way of doing, movement and rest. We can take it that
Jabalqa includes everything that was and everything that will
be, and for this reason is situated in the East, because beyond it,
there is the degree of the divine Ipseity in itself, without there
being any solution of continuity between the two. The suns, the
moons, and the stars, which are the divine Names, eternal qualifi­
cations and hecceities arise in the East, which is divine Ipseity,
from which they project their splendor. The city of JAbarsA, on
the other hand, is the world of man, the place where the univer­
sality of the contents of the divine Names and all the essences of
being are manifested. Everything that dawns to the East of the
divine Ipseity, finally declines at the sunset of human reality
and becomes hidden in the form of human existence. A poet has
expressed it thus: "Should there be an Occident, here we are­
become accidents of the mysteries. Should there not be an Occi­
dent, here we are-become the orients of the lights."
In short, JAbalqA and JAbarҪA are two immense cities, the one
facing the other, and in truth there is no limit to the multitude
of creatures which inhabit them both. And as each of the worlds
has respectively its Orient and its Occident, the author of the
"Rose Garden of the Mystery" declares: "Meditate conjointly the
Orients and the Occidents,• notwithstanding that our world here
below has only one of each."
Know that the world of the "deity," with respect to the world
of "suzerainty"6 is an Orient from which the primordial Emana­
tion effuses on this world of suzerainty. And the world of suze-

Shamsuddin Muhammad Lihiji
rainty is an Orient in relation to the interworld of archetypal
Images, and the world of archetypal Images is an Orient in rela­
tion to the sensory world. From each of these Orients, the divine
Emanation effuses on the world which is beneath it. Each of the
universes in turn, each of the degrees of being, each of the indi­
viduals, is an Orient from which rises the sun of one Name from
among the divine Names. The human heart, because it recapitu­
lates all the forms of the epiphanic function, possesses hundreds,
even hundreds of thousands of Orients and still more, and all the
stars which are the divine Names rise and shine through these
Orients. But opposite each one there is also an Occident. How
wondrous and strange the human heart, which no one can see,
save the pilgrims of the spirit, who are the pure in heart. 0
1 6!1

V I
iADRUDDIN MUjAMMAD SHIRAZI
(MULLA kADRA )
(d. 1050/ 1640 )
Spissitudo Spiritualis*
The term spissitudo spiritualis ( spiritual condensation or con­
sistency ) was suggested by Henry More in his Enchiridion
metaphysicum to designate the "fourth dimension" ( quarta
dimensio ) , the idea of which inevitably struck him once he
grasped the distinction between the concepts of space ( that of
the locus supracoelestis ) and the concept of matter. The expres­
sion seemed appropriate to characterize the following pages of
Mullii sadrii. It brings out a not altogether surprising affinity
between the Cambridge Platonists and the Persian Platonists,
to which we will return elsewhere.
Everything man pictures to himself, all that he really per­
ceives, whether through intelligible or sensory perception,
whether in this world or in the beyond, all these things are
inseparable from man himself and cannot be dissociated from
his essential "1." More precisely, what is essentially the object
of perception is something that exists in himself, not in some­
thing else. We have already had occasion to speak of what the
object of visual perception essentially is; when the sky, the earth,
or anything else is perceived, by us, it is not an outer form exist­
ing in objective material data, as found in the dimensions of our
world.
It is true that at the dawn of consciousness in man, the soul's
perception requires the cooperation of material organs (eye, ear,
and so on ) ;  it also requires that the position of objects satisfy
,. Excerpt from the Book of the Theosophy of the Throne ( Kitab al­
¢ikmat al'arshiya ) ,  Teheran, 1 3 1 5 / 1897, pp. 148, 15 1-55, 195-98.
This book has been the subject of several commentaries, notably the one
by Shaikh AQ.mad AQ.sA'l (Tabrtz, 1278 / 186 1 ) ; see pp. 1 82 202, 325-
34, some excerpts from which are given below ( Art . I X ,  4 h, l' , !S ) ,
1 64

$adruddin Mu/:lammad Shirazi
certain relationships, because perception is still only potential
in the being of man insofar as he is a feeling subject. It there­
fore must be placed in a suitable perspective and the conditions
peculiar to the organ of perception in relation to a material
object must be fulfilled. But the material object is never anything
but an object perceived by accident; it is actually only an outer
form imitating, exemplifying the form present in the soul (its
archetypal Form in the Malakat ) ,  which is essentially the object
of perception. That is why, when perception has once or several
times taken place in this manner, the soul is very often able to
contemplate the form of a thing in its own world without re­
quiring an outer material objecী as intermediary. In the post
mortem state there remains no obstacle to prevent the soul from
perceiving all that it feels and perceives without the intermediary
of either external material data or of a corporeal organ belonging
neither to the world of the soul nor to the true reality of the
soul. . . .
Of all the realities that man sees and contemplates in the
world beyond, those which delight, like houris, castles, gardens,
green vegetation, and streams of running water-as well as
their opposites-the horrifying kinds of which Hell is com­
posed-none of these is extrinsic to him, to the very essence of
his soul, none is distinct or separated from his own act of exist­
ing. The substantial reality is stronger, their permanence better
assured, their essence more stable, than in the case of the mate­
rial forms of our sensory world which are subject to incessant
renewal and change. Let no one therefore believe he has the right
to question the place, the situs, and the direction of these reali­
ties; not even to wonder whether they are on the inside or the
outside of our cosmos, whether they are above the Sphere of
Spheres that determines the coordinates of sensory space or
whether they are included in the circles of the Heavens, or
whether they are below the celestial Spheres. Such questions are
meaningless once it is understood that we are concerned with
another realm of existence, between which and the material
world there is no relation as to situs or as to dimension.
Cc-t'lllinly, a well-known /Jadfth asserts that the Earth of para-

Article VI
dise is the firmament (the eighth Heaven or Heaven of the
constellations ) ,  while its "roor' is the Throne of the Merciful
(the Sphere of Spheres, the empyrean ) . But this should not be
taken as referring to the astronomical field enclosed in the space
of this world, between the Heaven of the constellations and the
supreme Heaven. No, we should take it as referring to that
which corresponds to the esoteric plane of each Heaven, their
suprasensory reality, their spiritual entity, for Paradise is interior
to the suprasensory reality of Heaven.
Similarly, when it is said that Paradise is in the seventh
Heaven and Hell in the lower Earth, it must be understood that
it refers to something inner, something hidden under the veils
of this world, for the world beyond is perpetual, eternal; its
sweetness is unceasing, its fruition uninterrupted, its fruits never
forbidden. Everything to which man aspires, everything he de­
sires, is instantaneously present to him, or rather one should say:
to picture his desire is itself to experience the real presence of its
object. But the sweetness and delight are the expression of Para­
dise and Hell, good and evil, all that can reach man of what
constitutes his retribution in the world beyond, have no other
source than the · essential "I" of man himself, formed as it is by
his intentions and projects, his meditations, his innermost beliefs,
his conduct. Their principle could not be in something with an
existence and a situs different from his own act of existing. . . .
There are many differences between the bodies of this world
and those of the world beyond. In the other world, each body, is
animated; it is alive thanks to essence; it is impossible to con­
ceive of a body there as being without life, unlike in our world
where there are bodies deprived of life and consciousness, and
where living bodies never have more than an accidental and
ephemeral life. The bodies of this world receive their souls at the
end of a process that makes them fit to receive them. The souls
of the world beyond themselves produce their bodies in accord­
ance with their own needs. That is why in our world bodies and
material realities rise progressively, according to their aptitudes
and metamorphoses, to meet souls, while in that other world
souls come down to meet bodies. Here below, virtuality is chrono-

$adruddin Mul;l.ammad Shirazi
logically antecedent to an act, while the act is ontologically ante­
cedent to virtuality. In the world beyond virtuality is onto­
logically, and ontically, antecedent to the act. Here, the act is
nobler than virtuality because it is its fulfillment. There, virtual­
ity is nobler than the act because it is that which produces the
act.
Bodies and volumes are infinite in the other world, because
they originate from the imaginations and perceptions of souls,
which are both infinite. Proofs that dimensions are necessarily
finite are not valid for the other world; they are only valid for the
dimensions and material spatializations of this world. Neverthe­
less, there is neither crowding nor· discomfort in that other world;
no body is outside another, nor inside it. Every human being,
blessed or damned, possesses a complete universe, vaster in
itself than our world, and never forming, in relation to another
man's universe, as it were, a step in the same series, because
each of the blessed possesses whatever proportion of the entire
series he desires. This is why the great mystic Abn Yazld Bas­
Ԛami declared: "Even were the Throne, with all it contains, to
enter into the secret places of Abo Yazld's heart, Abo Yazld
would not notice it." •
.
.
Now as to the way in which acts assume a body, and inten­
tions assume shape on the resurrection day, you should know
what has been said about the matter of their forms. Every outer
form has its particular mode of apparition in the soul's dwelling.
Reciprocally, every inner form, every psychic form, all behavior,
every habitus rooted in the soul, has a certain mode of extra­
mental existence. Do you not see that when a humid body exer­
cises its effect on corporeal matter able to receive humidity, such
matter receives it and itself becomes humid as did that body,
thereafter having the same plastic flexibility as the latter? On
the contrary, if it works on another matter, for example on an
organ of sensory perception or of imaginative perception, even
though that organ undergoes the action of humidity, this is not
the same action; it does not become humid after the manner of
that hody, even while receiving the essence ( quiddity ) of its
humidity, but in another form and of another type. In turn, the

Article VI
intellective faculty of man receives another form from it and
perceives another mode of its existing and appearing although
the quiddity in question is still the same, namely the essence
( quiddity ) of humidity and the humid.
So here we see how the same quiddity possesses three forms
in three different abodes, for each of which it has an appropriate
mode of existence and a definite mode of appearance. Pause to
consider the difference of status shown by these three existences
of one and the same quiddity, and compare the manner in which
each ideal reality and each concrete quiddity can take on different
configurations in their modes of existing and appearing. Then
do not be surprised if anger, which is a psychic modality when
it appears, by taking on form with extramental existence becomes
a devouring fire; nor if knowledge, which is also a way of being
of the soul, becomes a fountain called Salsabil (a  fountain of
Paradise, Qur'an 76: 1 8 )  when it appears as taking on a form
with extramental existence, do not be surprised if that which
someone has unjustly devoured of an orphan's wealth becomes,
in the other world, a fire that tortures his entrails; nor if the love
of this world, that is, bad passions and possessive ambitions
which are maladies of the soul, become stinging scorpions, biting
snakes. This should suffice to strengthen the faith of one able
to understand in the promises and the threats uttered by the
Prophet.
It is incumbent on anyone who has the strength to venture
into higher knowledge to meditate on the psychic qualifications,
the modes of being of the soul, and on the way in which these
modes of being give rise to effects and external acts. He should
make this knowledge a guide so that he may understand how
certain modes of being and behavior imply the production, on
the day of resurrection of outer effects appropriate to them. An
example: the violence of anger in a man produces disturbance
of the blood, redness of face, swelling of the skin. Now anger is
a psychic state, something that exists in the inner world of man.
As for the effects just noted, they are the modes of being of
organic material bodies; the fact remains that they are the effects
produced in this world by purely psychic states. Therefore why

$adruddin Mu/:lammad Shirazi
be astonished if, in another world, anger is converted into a pure
fire that inflames the heart, infects the entrails, consumes the
viscera, just as it is inherent to it in this world to heat the body,
accelerate the pulsation of the arteries, make the limbs tremble,
consume the humours, sometimes to lead to a serious illness,
even to a fatal accident. Well! it is the same for all the corporeal
and material forms existing in the world beyond; all of them
result from habits acquired by the souls, from their good or bad
behavior, from the beliefs they profess, from their healthy or
corrupt intentions, from everything in them that takes root
through the repetition of actions and ways of doing things in this
world. That is why, if actions are the source of behavior in this
world, souls are the principles of bodies in the world beyond by
their modes of being.
As for the matter constituting bodies in the beyond through
which actions take on body and intentions take shape, that matter
is nothing other than the human soul itself. Just as "material
matter" ( hyle ) is here the matter of which bodies and extended
forms are constituted although this matter in itself does not have
extent, so the human soul is the matter which, in the world be­
yond, constitutes the existents which there have extent and shape,
although the soul in itself is a spiritual reality without extent.
But here certain differences enter between the analogous func­
tions of soul and the hyle.
The existence of matter ( hyle ) is purely potential existence;
in itself it has no actual being except through corporeal forms.
It is quite otherwise with the soul, which itself is actually ex­
istent, has substantial existence, and is endowed with the ability
to perceive. It begins by being in this world the form of the
elemental body. Then it becomes the matter of the world beyond,
for the forms of the world beyond with which it is united by a
mode of union sui generis. It is therefore on the one hand the
form of the material realities of our world, and on the other the
matter of the forms of the world beyond, breathed into it on
"the day when the breath of the Angel will cause the trumpet to
sound," when they will all come running in crowds according to
thrir vnriou" species.

Article VI
Further, the soul is a spiritual, subtle matter ( madda ruİaniya
la1ifa, spiasitudo spiritualis! ) ;  it can receive forms only in a
subtle suprasensory state, perceptible not to the senses of this
world, but to the senses of the world beyond. On the other hand,
material matter ( hyle ) is a dense, opaque matter which receives
densified forms determined by sensory dimensions and sensory
positions, mixtures of virtuality and of nonbeing. Further still,
material matter behaves in a passive way in relation to the forms
it receives; it undergoes change, alteration, movement. In con­
trast, the behavior of the soul in receiving forms that become
rooted in it is a conservative action, an active implication. There
is no incompatibility between its receptivity in regard to forms
and its act of producing these same forms, since it is precisely by
one and the same "reason" for its being that it simultaneously
produces, and receives the forms and images produced by itself,
the same holds good for its knowledge of first principles, the
existence of which is not differentiated from the very existence
of the Intelligence that causes them to exist.
There are yet other differences: receptivity in that world does
not have the sense of a progressively acquired aptitude nor of a
future potential. Finally, here forms are so many perfections as
regards their matters and substrata, while there the forms, born
from the soul itself, are not perfections as regards the soul insofar
as they are forms actualized for it. There the growing perfection
of the soul consists inversely in its actualization of these forms,
that is, in being such that it produces these forms itself, and
makes them the object of its own knowledge. There is between
the two aspects a fundamental difference explained elsewhere.
1 70

VII
'ABD AL-RAZZ.AQ L.AHIJI
(d. 1072/1662 )
Oriental Theosophists and Peripatetic Philosophers"'
Know that there was a school of philosophers in Islam, headed
by Shihabuddln Y a}:tyl Suhrawardl, who was renowned under
the title "Master of Oriental Theosophy" (Shaikh al-lshriiq ) for
having created in the Islamic era the corpus of the "theosophy of
the Orientals. "1 This school supports the thesis that several of the
kings and princes of ancient Persia, such as Kay Khusraw2 and
his peers, were initiates of "Oriental theosophy." The Greek sages
prior to Aristotle were likewise adepts of this "theosophy of the
Orientals." Aristotle, on the other hand, took up an opposite
position and created that aggregate of doctrines designated as the
"philosophy of the Peripatetics. "3
The difference between the theosophy of the Orientals and the
philosophy of the Peripatetics can be seen from several angles.
As everyone knows, the Orientals, or lshriiqiyun, affirm that
wisdom can be attained only through a method of spiritual reali­
zation; they emphasize the inner effort of spiritual struggle and
mystical experience. They value neither pure rational theory nor
dialectics as such; one might even say that they are frankly
hostile to them. The Peripatetics, on the other hand, base their
philosophy on rational theory and logical reasoning, and concede
no value to what cannot be reduced to rational argumentation
and logical reasoning. The Orientals, or lshriiqiyun, are related
to the Peripatetics as the ŀQfls to the scholastic theologians of
Islam (the Mutakallimun ) . This difference can be verified in the
prologue of the book which was mentioned previously.4
• Extract from the great work in Persian entitled Gawhar-i murad
( Tht! l>t!drt!d Jt!wel) ,  Sd maqlla, 4th bib, 2d far,l, Teheran, lS lS/ 1895,
pp. 287--89.

Article VII
Briefly, the Oriental theosophists and the ŀQfis agree in de­
fending in philosophy and mystical theosophy a large number of
theorems which the Peripatetics and the scholastic theologians,
on the grounds that they do not meet the requirements of rational
theory and logical argumentation, reject. These theorems notably
include the one affirming the existence of the mundus arche­
typus, the autonomous world of archetypal Images or Forms
('a/am-i mit hal ) . The Oriental theosophists and the ŀofrs agree
in affirming the following: 5 between the intelligible world, which
is the world of entirely immaterial pure Intelligences, and the
sensory world, which is the world of purely material realities,
there exists another universe. The beings of this intermediary
universe possess shape and extent, even though they do not
have "material matter." Thus the pure Intelligences are separated
both from matter and extent; purely material things are clothe4
with both matter. and extent; the beings of the mundus arche­
typus are separুte from matter, but endowed with extent in the
same way as the forms of imaginative consciousness. Neverthe­
less, the reality of the forms which are immanent in imaginative
consciousness resides in that consciousness itself, not objectively
or extramentally, whereas the reality of the world of archetypal
Images is objective and extramental. 6
Thus this world is intermediate between the two universes:
as a result of being separated from matter, it is of the same
nature as the world of pure Intelligences; as a result of possessing
form and extent, it resembles the world of material things.
Every being of the two universes, the intelligible and the sensory,
has its archetypal Image in this intermediate universe, a self-sub­
sistent Image with autonomous existence;--every creature and
everything, including movement and rest, attitudes and physiog­
nomies, flavors and perfumes, and other accidentals. 7 The mode
of existence assumed in this intermediate ·world by an essentially
immaterial being corresponds for this same being to a kind of
descent through which it becomes able to take on extent and
shape. On the other hand, the mode of existence assumed in it
by a material being, for this same being corresponds to an ascent
1 72

•Abd al-Raz:ziiq Liihij'i
which strips it of matter and certain things inherent in matter,
such as localization. 8
This universe is also designated as the world of autonomous9
Images and Imagination, and as the world of the barzakh.10
It may happen that a being of this autonomous world of Images
makes himself visible, makes his appearance in our material
world, and can be perceived in it by the outer senses. Bodies
which are perfectly polished and transparent bodies, such as
mirrors, still water, the atmosphere, are the places of the epiph­
any in our material world of the beings of the world of archetypal
Images. In the same way, man's Imagination is also the place of
their epiphany. Forms contemplated in mirrors and those mani­
fested in the Imagination both belong to that mundus arche­
typus, which is manifested for us in these "epiphanic places"
( mfl?:ahir ) , that is, the mirror and the Imagination. In the same
way also, the forms one sees in a dream, Angels, genii, and
demons, are likewise beings belonging to this same world, who
are sometimes manifest to a whole group, in such or such an
epiphanic place in Air or Water.11
There is, moreover, a tradition dating back to the Sages of
antiquity concerning the existence of a universe having extent
but different from the sensory world-a universe with infinite
wonders and countless cities, among them Jabalqa and Jabara,
two immense cities, each having a thousand gates and containing
innumerable creatures. This is the universe by which the theoso­
phists of that school (the Ishraqiyan or Orientals ) explain and
authenticate bodily resurrection; they affirm that Paradise, Hell,
and the Earth of Resurrection have their existence in this mundus
archetypus, the autonomous universe of the archetypal Images.
This is the universe in which accidents can acquire substance,
in which the acts and works of man can take on consistent form
and figure.12 Among the schools that admit bodily resurrection
there is one that professes that the human pneuma (the subtle
body) continues to exist in this world of autonomous Images
during the interval which is also called a barzakh, and which
extends from the death of the individual to the Great Resurrec-

Article VII
tion. Numerous /:&adith and traditions allude to this and can be
quoted in support; these will be analyzed later in this book.
This world of archetypal Images differs from the world of
Platonic Ideas-the one which owes its name to Plato-in this
sense that the Platonic Ideas designate universal forms of knowl­
edge, separate from matter and all material envelopments, self­
subsistent, not subsisting only through the person of the knowing
subject or through some other substratum.13 According to Plato
it is through these Ideas that the divine Being has knowledge of
that which is other. Here exactly is a third way of conceiving
divine knowledge insofar as it differs from two other types of
knowledge: representative knowledge and presential knowl­
edge.14 Now, according to the Oriental theosophists, the beings
of the world of archetypal Images are particular forms that are
separate from Matter, but by no means from all material (that
is, subtle ) envelopes. Of course, the world of Platonic Ideas
resembles this world of archetypal Images in the sense that these
autonomous imaginative Forms are self-subsistent, just as the
Ideas or intelligible forms are self-subsistent. In sum, the thesis
of the autonomous world of archetypal Images is peculiar to the
Oriental theosophists (lshrilqiyun ) and to the ŀQfis, and to sup­
port this thesis they refer to mystical experience . . . .
The author then recalls a number of objections which the
Peripatetics and scholastic theologians brought against the
lshraqiyan. It is not possible here to dwell on these technical
details. Among other things, the Peripatetics of Islam persisted
in objecting that every extent implies divisibility, and that every
divisibility implies matter, and consequently that it is impos­
sible for extended forms to exist without matter. Unfortunately
the idea of divisibility seemed to be limited for them to that of
anatomical divisibility, and their concept of matter to that of
the composite, dense, and corruptible matter of the sublunar
world. With the "Oriental theosophists" the idea of the mundus
archetypus presupposes the idea of "absolute matter," that is,
absolved from the determinations that are peculiar to the state
of matter in the terrestrial world. This very idea of a primordial
"immaterial" matter is the key to the cosmogony of Ibn 'Arabi
( nafas ai-Ra!Jman, the Breath of the Merciful ) ;  without it, the
spissitudo spiritual is, namely, the subtle condensation of the pre-

'Abd al-Razzaq Lahiji
material matter of the beings of the mundus archetypus, is
inconceivable. In this sense, there is no form without matter.
We will meet with this idea throughout the following passages.
The excerpts from Mullii Ðadri, translated above, can serve as
a prelude to them.

VIII
MUI:ISIN FAYl KASHANI
(d. 109 1/1680 )
A World in Which Spirits Are Corporealized and
in Which Bodies Are Spiritualized*
Because the power to govern bodies has been entrusted to
Spirits, and because it is impossible for a direct connection to be
established between spirits and bodies on account of their hetero­
geneous essence, God created the world of the archetypal Images
as an intermediary ( barzakh ) linking the world of Spirits and
the world of bodies. Hence the connection and articulation of
each of the two worlds with the other is assured. The emission
and reception of the influx of spiritual entities then becomes con­
ceivable; spirits are able to exercise their regency over bodies and
come to their assistance.
This archetypal world is a spiritual universe. On the one
hand, it symbolizes with material substance in that it can be an
object of perception, is endowed with extent, and can manifest
in time and in space. On the other hand, it symbolizes with pure
intelligible substance, in that it is formed of pure light and is
independent of space and time. Thus, it is neither a composite
material body, nor a pure intelligible substance completely sepa­
rate from matter. One might rather describe it as a universe
having duality of dimensions through each of which it symbol­
izes with the universe to which that dimension corresponds. 2
There is no existent thing, whether in the intelligible world or
in the sensory world, whose image is not recorded in this inter­
mediate universe. This universe, in the macrocosm, is homolo­
gous to the active Imagination in the human microcosm. Indeed,
,. Extract from Kalimiit maknana (Sayings Kept Secret ) ,  ch. xxx,'
lith. Teheran, 1 2 / 1 6 / 1801, pp. 68-70; Bombay, 1296/ 1878, pp. 69-72.
The work is in Arabic and Persian.
1 76

Mul)sin FayƋ Kiishiini
it comprises an aspect the perception of which is dependent upon
the faculties having their seat in the brain, this being technically
called the contiguous imagination (contiguous to the archetypal
world, while remaining immanent in man ) .  But it also com­
prises an aspect not subject to this condition, and which is called
the Autonomous Imagination (the world of the Malakat ) .8
It is through this world, and through its characteristic prop­
erty, that spiritual entities are corporealized, are embodied,
when they are manifested in the epiphanic forms which are the
Images with which they symbolize. This is what is referred to
in the verse telling how Gabriel "took on a body (was typified )
before Maryam in the form of a human being of perfect beauty"
( 19: 16 ) . The story told about the Samaritan alludes to the
same thing: "I saw what they did not see; I took a handful of
earth from under the feet of the Messenger" (20: 96 ) ,  that is,
from under the feet of the Archangel Gabriel. 4 The same refer­
ence is also contained in the tradition which relates that the
Prophet saw the Archangel Gabriel in the guise of the ado­
lescent Dal_tya al-KalbJ and heard him read a discourse clothed
in words and letters.
This is the intermediate world to which those who are spir­
itualized (the "pneumatic ones") are carried off in their spiritual
assumptions when they shed their elemental physical forms and
when their Spirits put on their epiphanic spiritual form. It is in
the intermediate world that perfect Souls put on the apparitional
forms in which they are perceived in a place other than the one
where they actually are; or else appear to him to whom they
wish to appear in a form different from that in which they are
perceived by the senses during their earthly sojourn. That very
thing can come to pass after their transfer to the other world,
for then the psycho-spiritual energy is further increased by the
fact that the obstacle of the body has been removed.
In short, this is the world of archetypal Images through and
in which Spirits are corporealized and bodies spiritualized.
Through and in this world, ways of being and moral behaviour
are personalized, and supersensory realities are manifested in the
FormN unci figures with which they symbolize.5 And further, the
1 77

Article VIII
appearance of figures in mirrors or in any reflecting substance,
for instance clear water, likewise takes place in this intermediate
world, since all figures reflected by mirrors also belong to this
world. 8 Again, all forms and figures immanent in our active
Imagination are seen in this intermediate world, whether in
dreams or in the waking state, because these forms and figures
are contiguous to this archetypal world; they receive its light
in the way that a ray of light penetrates into a dwelling place
through skylight and lattices.
So, this is an immense world, so vast that it contains not only
the Forms of the immaterial substances above it, but also the
material realities below it. It is the intermediary, the medium
through which the connection is effected. The senses and sensory
perceptions rise toward it, as the supersensory7 realities descend
toward it. From the place it occupies it continues to gather in
the fruits of each thing. It is through this world that the truth
is confirmed of the accounts of the Prophet's assumption to
Heaven which mention that, in the manner of an eyewitness,
he had a vision of the Angels and prophets. 8 It is in this inter­
mediate world that the Holy ImAms are present when they
appear before a dying person, as related in so many traditional
accounts. This is the world in which the interrogation of the
tomb takes place, with its delights and its torments; and it is in
this intermediate world also that the faithful believer can visit
those near to him after their death. 8 Likewise, this intermediate
world accounts for the possibility of scenes alluded to in certain
traditions: where the Spirits recognize one another post mortem,
just as corporeal beings recognize one another, ask questions of
one another, and so forth.
It would seem that the "descent of Jesus" ( at the time of the
parousia of the hidden ImAm) belongs to this category of events.
In the words of Shaikh ƛadnq: 10 "The descent of Jesus to the
Earth is his return to this world after being carried away from
this world," because God himself proclaims: "It is I who receive
you, who carry you off toward myself, and deliver you from
those who deny you . . .  until the Resurrection day."11 ( 3 : 48 )
In the same way, our traditions deriving from the Holy ImAms

Mu9sin Fayr. Kashimi
teach us: "At the time of the parousia of the Mahdi (the
'Guide') ,  God will cause to come back a certain number of per­
sons who died before; that is, a certain number from among the
Initiates and adepts of the ImAm, his 'Shrites,' pure believers
with pure faith, so that they may gather with him the fruit of
his triumph and his invincible help and taste the joy of the
epiphany of his reign. God will likewise cause a certain number
of the enemies of the ImAm to return, pure infidels with pure
impiety, so that they may stand accused and receive the punish­
ment they have deserved. . . . " All of this refers to the return
which accompanies the parousia and to which the faith of our
lmAmite coreligionists is particularly attached.11 And this is the
spiritual meaning of certain verses relating to the resurrection,
when interpreted according to the teaching of our ImAms.
1 79

IX
THE SHAIKH! S CHOOL : SHAIKH
AI:IMAD AI:ISA'I
(d. 1241/1826 )
I .  Physiology of the Resurrection Body*
. . .  In short, what the lexicographers, philologists, and special­
ists in exegesis of the Qur'an teach us is that the "flesh" ( jasad )
designates the body, the "volume" ( jism ) of the living, manifest,
and visible being. It is true that the term frequently occurs also
in the technical language of the alchemists, and in this case
designates metallic substance, that of the seven metals: gold,
silver, copper, iron, lead, tin, and mercury.1 What seems most
likely to me is that originally, or as time went on, the word
jasad in the Arabic language was taken to mean the body ( jism )
of the living being insofar as the spirit ( rilQ ) is absent from it.
But elsewhere, the term is used for something different. Thus
the Qamas mentions its use to designate saffron (jasad and
jistld ) , and even to designate that which is animated by the
pneuma, the spirit ( rilQ ) , as when speaking of the "body of
Zayd."
However, it could be said that in the last case the term is
indeed used to designate that which is animated by the spirit,
but only when regarding it as a composite resulting from a
physical organism and from a spirit; the word would then apply
precisely to that which is different from the spirit and not to the
spirit nor to the composite as such. Perhaps, then, the alchemists'
particular use of the word would enter into this category, either
on the grounds that metals are different from "spirits" or because
the alchemists consider some metals as deficient, namely, lead,
tin, and copper--Others as intermediary, namely, silver and
.. Extract from the Kitab Shar1 ai-Ziyt'Jra, Tnbrlz, 1 276/ 1 859, pp.
369-70.1
I HO

mercury-and one only as complete and finished, namely, gold.
This gradation has to be understood in relation to the Elixir
which, as regards the first six, perfects them, or else makes them
tend to perfect the others, as it does in the case of gold. In this
sense the metals are represented as inanimate bodies without the
spirit ( ajsiid ) , the spirit being for them the Elixir.
It may also be that if the astronomers, on the contrary, use
the word jism ( not jasad ) ,  in the proper sense, it is because the
celestial Spheres are in a subtle state comparable to that of the
Spirits, or else because astronomers regard them from the point
of view of their eternal interdependence with the Souls by which
they are moved, according to the doctrine of the specialists in
celestial physics. The terminology used by Muslims among
themselves accords with this usage, since their explanations,
like those . of the astronomers, deal with the astral masses
( ajrilm ) as such, without further definition.
As for the word jism, when used without further definition,
it designates that which forms volume, in the sense of volume
that can be divided according to the three dimensions. It follows
then: either that 1 ) it refers to an indeterminate and simple
body, without, so to speak, any composition. Sometimes it is
referred to as body ( jism ) considered in itself, as that of which
its substance is made. Sometimes it is referred to as matter
( hayala, hyle ) , when regarded from the point of view of its
capacity to receive the forms of the species; or else, 2 ) it may
refer to the mathematical solid body (jism ta'limi) ,  that is to
say, the body when dimension as such is the primary considera­
tion. This term is derived from the fact that the Ancients used
to teach their children geometry in terms of the body insofar
as it includes lines and surfaces, nothing further; or else it may
refer to the physical body ( 1abrl ) ,  so designated because the
discussion is confined to considering it from the point of view
of physis.
In the traditions concerning the holy ImAms, and in invoca­
tions addressed to them, sometimes jasad (their fleshly body)
is spoken of, sometime11 their jism ( body, undefined ) .  Fre­
quently nlso , hoth of thrNr l«'rm11 nre Ulled, and on occasion the
I H I

Article IX
second tenn ( jism ) is substituted for the first. The ImAms
themselves, in conversation with the pupils, must surely have
been guided by some considerations which they alone saw as a
whole. In any case, the result, for those who are fairly familiar
with the vocabulary of the holy ImAms, is that the word ajsad
(plural of jasad, material, fleshly body) is obviously used by
them as the antithesis of "Spirit," whereas the word jism (body,
undefined, plural ajsam ) has a much more general meaning in
their tenninology. Occasionally, even the tenns "figures," "real
appearances," "apparitional fonns" (ashba/.& ) ,  are used by them
as equivalent to "material body," and the tenn "Spirits" as equiv­
alent to "bodies" undefined ( ajsam ) .
Now you should be infonned that the human being possesses
two jasad and two jism. The first jasad (jasad A, that is, the
elementԘ! terrestrial body of flesh ) is the one which is made up
of elements that are a prey to time. This jasad, this flesh, is like
a gannent that a man puts on and later casts off again; this body
in itself has neither enjoyment nor suffering; it is subject neither
to fidelity nor to rebellion.
Do you not see how it may happen to Zayd, for instance, to be
consumed by disease; he wastes away to the point where one
cannot believe there is one ra#8 of flesh left on him. Yet he is
certainly Zayd; he retains his identity. Spontaneously and with­
out doubt you recognize him as still Zayd the rebel; not one
particle of his rebellion has disappeared. If what disappeared
as the result of his wasting away had been capable of producing
the disappearance of his rebellion, then the latter would have
almost entirely disappeared, because in that case it would have
lost both its support and its source. The same could be said
about Zayd the faithful. Not one particle of his fidelity will have
disappeared, since his fidelity has no connection whatever with
that part of him which has disappeared, neither the connection
of an effect with its cause, nor that of a derivative with its source
-no interdependence exists of any kind whatsoever. If that
which the sickness has caused to disappear in Zayd had really
been a part of him, its disappearance would have been accompa­
nied by the disappearance of the good and evil proper to Zayd's
1 82

Shaikh Ahmad Absa•i, §1
person. Inversely, if he puts on weight, Zayd remains the same
Zayd; just as in the previous case when there was no decrease,
so here there is no increase, so far as his essence and qualities
are concerned, nor any increase of fidelity or rebellion.
In short, this jasad, this body of flesh consisting of terrestrial
Elements, is not a part of Zayd. It is homologous to the opacity
that exists in silica and potash. When these are fused together,
liquified, they turn into glass. The glass is certainly the same
silica and the same potash that were completely dense and
opaque. But after the fusion, the opacity disappeared. This
means that the opacity is not a property of the earth itself. The
earth itself is subtle and transparent; its opacity is caused by the
clash between the Elements. When water is still and pure, you
see everything in its depths. But if you stir it up, you can no
longer distinguish anything in it so long as it is in movement,
because of the collision between its parts and the rarefaction of
the element air. What then happens when the four elemental
Natures come into collision! This jasad, this body of flesh made
of terrestrial elements, is comparable to the density that makes
silica and potash opaque, although this is not a part of their
essence, of their ipseity.
Another comparison: a garment, for example, is an assembly
of woven threads. As for the colors, these are accidentals, which
are no part of it; it may be dyed in various shades, then lose
them; it remains the same garment. This is probably what the
First Imam, 'Air, had in mind when he said in answer to the
Arab who was questioning him about the sensitive animal soul:
"When it is separated," he said, "it returns whence it came, just
as a mixture is dissolved, and not in the way that autonomous
elements in juxtaposition are separated one from another. Its
form is destroyed; action and being are abolished from it, so that
the composition of the mixture is itself destroyed, since it is
evident that the cessation of form and being entails the disap­
pearance of the composition itself."
As for the second jasad ( jasad B, the caro spiritualis of the
Elements of the spiritual world ) , this body survives, for the
"clay" from which it wu" con"tituted survives "in the tomb,"
I H:l

Article IX
when the Earth has devoured the elementary terrestrial body of
flesh ( jasad A ) , and when every part of the latter has dissolved
into its source: the fiery parts going back to Fire, the airy parts
to Air, the watery parts to Water, the earthy parts to Earth;
whereas the "body of celestial flesh" survives and retains its per­
fect "shape," as the Imam Ja'far ŀlidiq says. On the other hand,
the answer we heard read a moment ago, given by the First
Imam to an Arab, referred precisely to the first jasad, to the
corruptible body of flesh made from terrestrial elements. But
the body of spiritual flesh (jasad B )  is, on the contrary, the one
referred to in the saying of the lmlim Ja'far, when he states
that the "clay" of which it is made survives "in the tomb" and
retains its shape intact and perfect. This last expression means:
retaining the shape which corresponds to its own conformation,
that is, that the elements of the head, the neck, the chest, and
so forth remain respectively each in their own place. This is the
symbolic explanation ( ta'wil ) of the verse "No one among us
but has his appointed place ( S 7 :  164 ) . "
This body ( jasad B )  is the reality of the human being which,
without increase or decrease, survives "in the tomb" after the
body of flesh made of terrestrial elements, that is to say, the
opaque density and accidentals, have been separated from it and
dissolved. When these accidentals, the totality of which is named
the elementary body of flesh (jasad 'unuri, jasad A ) ,  have thus
been separated from the human being, the fleshly eyes, the organs
of optical perception, no longer see him. When it is thus decom­
posed and destroyed, there is finally nothing of it to be found,
so that some people affirm that the human being is annihilated.
Not at all! Not so! But if we say that there is a body that survives
"in the tomb," that body is nonetheless invisible to earthly beings,
to the people of this world, on account of the opacity that darkens
their fleshly eyes and prevents them from seeing what is not of
the same kind as themselves. This is why the lmlim Ja'far again
compares this invisible body to the gold dust in the goldsmith's
crucible. This, likewise, the eyes do not see. But the goldsmith,
having washed it with water and purified it of the earth with
which it was mixed, causes it to become vi11ihlr.
1 H4

Shaikh Abmad Absa'i, §1
The same applies to the body of "spiritual flesh" ( jasad B )
that survives "in the tomb." When God wishes to bring his
creatures back to life• he causes a rain coming from the ocean
situated below the Throne to spread out over the Earth, the
water of this rain being colder than snow . . . .  This is alluded to
in a verse in the Qur'an ("and His Throne rested on the Waters,"
1 1 :  9 ) . Then the face of the Earth becomes blended into a single
ocean. The waves dash against one another under the vehemence
of the winds. A universal refining process takes place. The mem­
bers of the spiritual body (jasad B )  of each individual join to­
gether to form an organism in perfect "shape," that is to say
conforming to the structure the body had in this world; the ele­
ments of the neck are welded to the elements of the head, then
to those of the bust and so forth. Elements of this other Earth
(the celestial Earth ) mingle with it. And in this way the spir­
itual body comes to birth "in the tomb" like the mushroom in
its humus. When the breath of Seraphiel5 causes the trumpet to
vibrate, the Spirits take flight. Each Spirit flies swiftly toward
its spiritual flesh (jasad B ) ;  it bursts the tomb, just as the bed
of humus yields to the thrust of the mushroom. "And lol behold
them standing upright gazing forth ( S9: 69 ) ." This spiritual
body coming back to life is the body which belongs to the Earth,
Hurqalya. This is the body in which humans are resurrected,
and with which they enter into Paradise or into Hell.
Someone will perhaps reply: ''The obvious meaning of your
words is in any case that this body of flesh we see here today is
not resurrected. Now, such a doctrine contradicts the teaching
followed by those who profess Islam in accordance with the
verse from the Book: 'God will raise up all who are in the
graves (22: 7 )  .' "8
To that I answer: what I profess is precisely what the Mus­
liman profess. For do they not say that the "bodies" in which
they will be resurrected are indeed the same bodies that existed
in the present earthly life, with the difference, however, that
they are entirely purified from accidents and all tarnish? Are the
Musliman not all agreed in professing that these bodies will not
be resurrected in their opacity nnd density, but will have to
l R&

Article IX
undergo purification and will only be resuscitated when perfectly
pure, though retaining their identity? This is exactly what I say
and intend to say. For the opacity of the present body is de­
stroyed, which means that it returns to its source; for its part
this elementary flesh has no connection with the Spirit, nor with
fidelity or infidelity, nor with pleasure or suffering; by itself, it
does not even possess the capacity to feel the one or the other.
Indeed, in regard to the human being it is, as it were, a garment
thrown over him. The opacity is exactly this fleshly body made
of terrestrial elements ( ja8ad A )  , which is destroyed beyond
recall.
So understand what I wish to say, for this is the way in
which those traditions are to be understood which state that the
bodies of the holy Imlims7 have now been "taken up to Heaven."
Certainly if the body of the Imam l;lusayn had been exhumed
soon after his burial it would still have been visible; but now no
human eye would be able to see it. He is now "attendant on the
Throne, contemplating his pilgrims, etc." The spiritual meaning
of these traditions should therefore be understood as referring
to the final separation from the terrestrial elemental bodies that
constitute the carnal state, a state associated for a moment with
the archetypal spiritual bodies. As soon as the latter separate
from this carnal coating, they become imperceptible to the sight
of ordinary humans. I have dealt with that already in certain
passages of the present book, to which I would ask you to refer.
As for the two jism (that is jism A, or astral subtle body, and
jism B, the supracelestial archetypal body) , the first ( jism A )
is the body in which the Spirit departs from its body of terres­
trial flesh ( i.e., ja8ad A ) . The "astral subtle body" ( jism A )
remains with the Spirit, whereas the Spirit is separated from its
"subtle body of spiritual flesh" (ja8ad B )  at the moment when
death intervenes between them. The astral body is with the
Spirit in the earthly Paradise ( J annat al-dunya ) ,  situated in the
West; with this astral body it enters the abode of Peace (Dar
al-Salam ) , visits its habitation and place of origin. The spirit
of the infidel is also accompanied by this astral body when it
enters the terrestrial Hell ( N iJ.r al-dunyt'J ) ut the rising of the

Shaikh Amad AƊsa'i, §1
sun, whereas at sunset it takes refuge with this body in the
valley of Barhot, 8 and wanders with it, during the night, in the
valley of Sulphur.
So that is the state in which the two groups remain until the
first blast of the Trumpet vibrates. 9 Then the Spirits themselves
are annihilated during the interval between the "two blasts of
the Trumpet." All movement of the celestial Spheres and every­
thing, animal and vegetable, possessing spirit and soul is halted.
This cosmic pause lasts "four hundred years." Thereupon the
Spirits are resuscitated, each in its second jism (that is, jism B,
the supracelestial archetypal body) . That is possible because
these bodies ( jism B ) have been completely purified and have
lost all their opacity, that is, the opacity they had had from the
first jism ( jism A or astral body) , exactly as we explained with
regard to what occurs to the fleshly body (of Earthly elements,
jasad A, and the body of spiritual flesh, jasad B ) ,  word for
word.10 The Spirits are therefore resuscitated, each respectively
in its second jism ( jism B, or archetypal body) . This celestial
body is, indeed, the one that formerly existed in the earthly life
-none other; if it were otherwise, reward and punishment of
the Spirits would have disappeared along with the first body.
However, the jism that exists during life on earth, and which is
at the same time this body that we see, includes subtle and dense
elements. The density that made it opaque will have been puri­
fied and destroyed. This density is what we call the first jasad
(jasad A, the elemental body of perishable flesh) .  The subtle
element, however, survives "in the tomb"; this is what we des­
ignate as the second jasad (jasad B, the body of spiritual flesh ) .
It is in the astral body (jism A )  that the spirit makes its
appearance in the barzakh (the intermediate world) .  This astral
body is the vehicle ( markab, okhtma ) and habitation of the
Spirit until the "first sounding" of the Trumpet. At that moment
it receives a last purification, and the density which we call the
first jism (jism A, or astral body) also departs from it. Only the
subtle element of this jism remains in the world of seminal rea­
RonR11 in three "treasurie11," while the density vanishes from three
other "trenRuriell." The11e 11ix "trea11uries" are arranged in the
I H7

Article IX
treasury of the orifices (of Seraphiel's cosmic Trumpet, which
is the matrix ) of this Spirit. When the archangel Seraphiel
sounds the ''Trumpet of Resurrection" (i.e., "the second blast" of
the Trumpet ) , the Spirit descends toward the tomb. All its treas­
ures blend together, it penetrates into the subtle jasad (jasad B,
caro spiritualis ) ;  they are then "reassembled," that is, resusci­
tated.12
But know that if you were able to weigh this spiritual body
in the course of this present life, and if, after being weighed, it
were to undergo a purification that would entirely separate it
from the elemental body of perishable flesh, so that nothing
would subsist save this permanent spiritual body (jasad B )
that belongs to the world of Hurqalya; and supposing further
that you were able then to weigh it again, you would find that
it would not have diminished by even so much as the weight of
a sesame seed in comparison with the result of the first weighing.
The fact is that the density that constituted the elemental fleshly
body (jasad A ) is an accident. Now accidents in no way modify
the "weight" we are concerned with here; they neither increase
it when they come about, nor decrease it by departing from it.
In this sense it would be a mistake to picture to oneself the
"resurrection body," the organ of beatitude or damnation, as
something other than the body that exists in the present life, in
spite of there having been a change and complete purification.
Or, one should say rather that it is indeed this body, and yet it is
also something other than it from the fact of having been puri­
fied, broken down, refashioned.
According to Ab'il Manų'ilr 'Ali 'fabarsi,18 commenting on the
verse from the Qur•an: "Each time their skin shall be consumed,
we shall replace it by another skin, so that they may taste the
chastisement (4: 59 )"-the Imam Ja•far ŀadiq answered some­
one in his entourage who was asking him about the meaning of
this verse: "Be careful! they are indeed the same skins and yet
each time it is something else." "Give me a comparison with
something in this world." "Very well, do you not see that if a
man takes a brick, breaks it in pieces, then puts it back into its
mold, the brick will be the same and yet it will be nnother brick?"
1 88

Shaikh Amad Asa'i §2
And in the Tafsir of 'Air ibn Ibrahrmu it tells how they asked
the Imam: "How can one conceive of a skin being replaced by
another one?" "Suppose," replied the Imam, "you take a brick,
break it up and reduce it to dust, and then reshape it in the mold,
will this brick be the same as the first one? In fact, the first will
have been changed into another one, although the original, the
archetype, is identical."
In this way the Imam makes it clear that the skin replacing
the first skin is another one, while remaining "their skin." The
differentiation is a difference in mode of being and qualification.
Similarly, in respect to what we are considering here: the body,
the object which is visible during this present life, is indeed what
will be the "resurrection body," but after having undergone that
alchemy we have several times described. . . .
2. On the Esoteric Meaning of the Tomb*
The essential nature of the tomb is that it is the resting place of
the dead, the first of the stages toward the saeculum venturum.
In its visible aspect and exoteric meaning, it is the abode of the
material body from which life has departed. This is the ordinary
opinion. But understood esoterically ( ta'wil ) , the tomb signifies
the nature of the person, his life, his inmost desire. God said to
his Prophet: "God makes himself heard by whomsoever he
wishes, but thou canst not make thyself heard by those who are
in their tomb (35: 2 1 ) ." And again: "Dead, not living, knowing
not when they will be raised ( 16:21-22 ) ."
Expressions such as ''The Spirit will return to man (in the
tomb)" are expressions that correspond to the apparent or exo­
teric meaning. In reality, what is in question are events that take
place not in the lower temporal world, that of the thing-object,
but on the higher plane of the degrees of time, that is to say in
Horqalya. And if I say "on the highest plane"-"at the highest
degree of time," it is because Horqalya is an intermediary.16
• Extract from the Rildlat al-qaiJfJya, published in the collection of the
workl of Shaikh AJ:!mad AJ:!all'l, Jawdmi' al-kalim, TabrJz, 1273-76/
I R:'It\-:'IU, 2 vola. In folln1 Vnl. I, l't .  II, !lei ri11Aia, p. 1 36.'"
I HIJ

Article IX
Sometimes it serves to designate the higher degree of time
(zaman ) , sometimes it is used to designate the lower plane or
degree of the Aevum ( dahr, eternity) .
Thus, this double use of the term is justified by homogeneity
and genuine correspondence. During his sleep, a man can be the
seat of violent movements, although his material body (jasad)
remains motionless. The explanation of such movements lies in
the proximity of the subtle body ( jism ) to the material body.
For while a man is sleeping, his Spirit "sings" in freedom in the
high branches of the great tree, which is the autonomous world
of Forms and Images ( 'iilam al-mithiil, mundus archetypus ) .
This full-grown tree has its roots in the soil of the "subtle
bodies," and there are as many individuations of these subtle
bodies as there are material bodies.
When we speak of "that which returns" ( as in the phrase
above ) , we refer to the Spirit subsisting in the autonomous
mundus archetypus. When we speak of "that toward which the
return takes place," we refer to the spiritual body (jasad B )
with which the supracelestial archetypal body (jism B )  will be
reunited.11 As for "punishment in the tomb,"18 this has to do
with what we mentioned concerning the "return of the Spirit,"
because the totality of the world of the barzakh (the interme­
diate world) , all that reaches it and is changed in it, refers to
the same (that is to say, to the esoteric meaning of the "tomb") .
The appearance of the holy ImAms at the moment of death or
"in the tomb," whether to believer or to unbeliever, is also an
event taking place in the world of HnrqalyA. It is to this that the
following verses from the Qur'An allude: "If we had caused an
Angel to descend, the affair would have been finished, they
would have had no respite ( 6: 8 )  ." ''The day when they behold
the Angels coming, it will not be good tidings for the guilty
(25 : 24 ) ."
These verses and some others, together with certain of our
traditions, signify that the Angels are not perceptible to anyone
in the world of material bodies, unless the Angel takes on the
appearance of a material body. As when the Angel Gabriel takes
on the aspect of the adolescent Daԙya KalbT in order to appear

Shaikh Amad Asa'i, §3
to the Prophet, or again, when he comes down to Abraham
accompanied by Kerubiel and Michael on the occasion of the
philoxenia, or again, to Lot, in order to chastise his people. For
every soul is in direct contact with those beings and those reali­
ties of the intermediate world that correspond to its own spir­
itual state. . . .
3. The Heavens and Elements of Hurqalya.*
. . .  As for the world HnrqalyA, its meaning relates to an other
world. What this word designates is the world of the barzakh
or the interworld. In fact, there is the lower, or terrestrial world;
this is the world of material bodies made up of Elements, the
world visible to the senses. Then there is the world of Souls,
which is the world of Malakat. The world of the barzakh, which
is the world intermediate between the visible material world
( 'illam al-mulk ) and the world of the Malakat, is another uni­
verse. It is a material world that is other. To put it differently,
the world of bodies composed of Elements constitutes what we
call the visible, material world. The world of Harqalyil is a
material world (the world of matter in the subtle state ) , which
is other.
As for its position, it is situated in the eighth climate.10 Its
lower plane borders on the convex surface of the Sphere of
Spheres, the surface that defines the directions of space. It is not
itself in a dimension or direction of our space, since there is
nothing beyond the convexity of the supreme celestial Sphere
that defines orientations; or rather, it has no spatial beyond.
Nevertheless, the lower plane of the world of Hnrqalyi corre­
sponds, by its position, to the highest degree of the supreme
Sphere, that which is called the "crystalline sphere." The form or
image at which you look in a mirror belongs to this lower plane
of the world or Hnrqalyi.
The language from which this term comes is the Syriac Lan­
guage ( aaryilnfya ) , that is, the language in use today among
• Extract from the an1wer rlv"n to Mulll Muhammad l,luaayn Anlrl
Klrmlnt In Jnwdml' nl-llnllm, Vol , I ,  l't. :1, Vth rlalla, pp. 15 3-54.10
I P I

Article IX
the Sabeans, those whom we now call the $ubbiih (more exactly,
the Mandeans ) ,  most of whom, and they are many, have settled
in and around Baųra. 21
Now, when we speak of the universe of Ho.rqalyA, its Heavens
and Elements, you should know the following: the world of the
barzakh, intermediate between the present world and the sae­
culum venturum, is the mundus archetypus, the autonomous
world of Forms and Images; it is the world intermediate between
the world of the Malakilt and the visible, material world. The
term HorqalyA is used to designate the Heavens of this inter­
mediate world, together with all the heavenly bodies they con­
tain. When we speak of JAbalqA and JAbarųA, we mean the
lower regions of this intermediate world.22 JAbalqA is a city to
the East, that is, in the direction of the beginning. JAbarųA is a
city to the West, that is, in the direction of the return and end­
ing. The Elements of this intermediate world are what constitute
the second and imperishable jasad ( jasad B, the spiritual body) ,
that is, the body whose "clay" survives invisibly "in the tomb,"28
retaining its same perfect "shape." In the eastern part of this
universe there is the "earthly Hell." In its western part, there is
the "earthly Paradise," Adam's Paradise. There it is that the
Spirits of faithful believers take refuge, and these are the "two
gardens covered with greenery" alluded to in the Qur'An
( 55: 64 ) . As for the proofs that testify to the existence of this
universe, there are, on the one hand, those known to theology.
There are the many traditions referring to the existence of the
intermediate world of the barzakh. There are verses from the
Qur'An like the following: "Behind them a barzakh until the day
when they will be raised up (2S : 202 ) ." And lastly, there are
the many traditional accounts referring to the existence of the
cities of the intermediate world. In comূenting on the Book of
the Theosophy of the Throne ( Kitiib al-Mkma al-'arshiya ) by
MullA ŀadrA ShlrAzl,24 on cosmogony and eschatology, I myself
have repeated, as elsewhere in my books, many ?Jadith that leave
no room for doubt. Equally, philosophical understanding gives
further evidence of the existence of this universe. Indeed, the
world of the Malakilt is made up of sub!ltnm&cH nnd bdngs sep-
1 92

Shaikh Ahmad Ahsa'i, §3
arate from matter, while our visible, physical world is made up
of material realities. There necessarily has to be an intermediary
between the two worlds, a barzakh, that is, a world whose state
is neither the absolutely subtle state of separate substances, nor
the opaque density of the material things of our world. In the
absence of such a universe, there would be a leap, a hiatus in the
gradation of being. Proofs guaranteeing the existence of such a
state after death and preceding the Great Resurrection are so
numerous that they cannot be counted. Among the philosophers,
none reject these proofs, although each one expresses himself in
his own way and pursues his own line. My correspondent re­
marks that among other statements that remain obscure for him
in my answer (i.e., in the Risala al-Khaqaniya ) zs are some that
demonstrate that the elementary body of material ftosh ( jasad
A ) is destroyed and "does not return." It seems to him that this
contradicts the literal meaning of the Qur'Anic verse and the tra­
ditional statements referring to it.28
I shall answer him as follows: know that the "material body"
(jasad) which is in the human being is in reality made up of
two bodies.27 One of them, the first one (jasad A )  is annihilated
and will not "return." The subtle body ( jism ) is also in reality
made up of a double body, the first (jism A, the astral body )
likewise does not "return." On the other hand, the second mate­
rial body (jasad B, the caro spiritualis, made from the Elements
of Hnrqalya) ,  and also the second subtle body (jism B, the
supracelestial, archetypal body) will both "return." This is the
doctrine I have expounded in the text of my intended answer.
What I mean to say is the following: the human being has
descended from the suprasensory world (•aJam al-ghayb, the
world of Mystery) from those archetypes or treasuries to which
the following verse of the Book refers: "Nothing exists but that
its treasury is in our hands ( 15 :  21 ) ." Thus the human being
desr.ends into this world, the sojourn of effort and struggle, and
amasses something of his own in view of the Futurum Resur­
rection. But as he descends from step to step, passing gradually
from one plane of being to another in the course of his descent,
at each 11tep he ncquirr.11 11 t௟r.rtaln mixture with the accidents

Article IX
corresponding to that step or plane. Just so, in the time of the
Prophet, when the Angel Gabriel descended to this world, he
took on the form and appearance of the beautiful adolescent
Dal).ya al-Kalbr. But when he "went back up to Heaven" this
form did not accompany him on his return. And so it was each
time he came down to one of the earlier Prophets: he showed
himself to the Prophet in the form of a very beautiful human
being, resembling some contemporary of that Prophet. Well, it
is just the same when the human being "descends" with his
subtle body, which is his archetypal body (jism B, jism a,li)
and the support of his Soul ( cf. the okhema symphyes of Proclus,
above, p. 92 ) .  He passes through the autonomous world of
Forms and Images ( 'alam al-mithal ) ;  there the astral body
(jism A )  becomes attached to him. The latter will not "return"
when the Great Resurrection takes place, because it is not a part
of the essential reality of man. It can be compared to the filth
that is deposited on your clothing and which goes away "without
return" when you clean it.
When, at the end of his descent, the human being has reached
this lower world, then the elemental, material body the body of
flesh (jasad A ) ,  composed of the Elements of our sublunary
world, becomes attached to him. In relation to the reality of the
human being, it is an accident; it is not a constituent of his es­
sence. This body of flesh belongs to the filth of this world of ours.
At the moment of the exitus from this world, the earth devours
this body of flesh as soon as it is placed in the tomb. But, as
against this, that other body (jasad B, composed of the Ele­
ments of HorqalyA ) survives invisibly "in the tomb" until the
Resurrection Day, when the Spirit (the "!"-spirit) returns to it,
penetrates it, and enters its Paradise or its Hell with it. This
spiritual body is what "returns," while the material body of
flesh, composed of sublunary Elements, that is, the totality of
accidents and stains that belong to this world below, all of that
neither belonged to the man nor was with him, but was just
something that adhered to him due to the fact of his existence
in this world. And so all of that goes back to its origin "without
return." It is the same when mud and filth Ntain your cotton

Shaikh Ahmad Absa'i, §3
robe: as soon as you have washed it, the mud and filth will go
away "without return." Will you then say, or will some one else
think of saying, that something is missing from the robe be­
cause of what has departed from it? No, what has departed from
it was precisely not a part of it.
Thus when post mortem the Spirit has entered the world of
the barzakh, it exists there in its archetypal body (jism B ) ,  to
which a body originating in this barzakh (jism A, the astral
body) provisionally adheres. In fact, the latter is not a part of it,
but is a temporary accident. On the Resurrection Day man in
his wholeness returns and leaves behind him that which was
no part of him, which was not himself. Compare this: Break
your seal; see how the form of it departs. Refashion it, now you
see the first seal, returned to its original form, identical to itself.
Nevertheless, the first form has not returned and never will.
This is the esoteric meaning of the verse: "Each time their skin
is consumed, We will replace it with another skin (4: 59 ) ."
Although the skin substituted may be identical to the first, it is
called other because the first form has departed from it and has
been replaced by another form. This is what is emphasized in
the commentary on this verse by the ImAm Ja•far endiq. "It is
the same and yet it is an other. "28
Compare this further with the clay brick which you pulverize
and then put back into its mold. It is certainly the same and yet
it is other. And it is the same in the case of the material elemen­
tary body ( jasad A )  and of the astral body (jism A )  regarding
which we say that neither the one nor the other "returns." By the
one and the other we designate the accidentals that adhere to
the human being due to the fact of his descent by successive
steps. And yet this same apparent, visible, sensible, palpable
body is also the one which is not annihilated and from which
nothing essential departs.28 Or rather, it survives invisibly until
the Resurrection Day, that is, until it returns and the Spirit
enters into it to make its Paradise or its Hell. Certainly it has
to be broken and has to be refashioned. Thus it will be pulver­
ized, purified of all that wn11 not a part of it. Afterwards it will be
11haped , for unle1111 it iN purifir.d of all the accidents that are not
l Ull

Article IX
itself, it would not be fit for survival. The very fact of existing
in this world implies its mixture with accidents, and here is
exactly the obstacle to its survival.
My correspondent asks further what I mean to say when I
state that between the two "blasts" of Seraphiel's Trumpet, the
Spirit is attracted, reabsorbed, into whichever orifices of the
Trumpet are its matrix; he asks me what I mean by the "six
Treasuries" and what proof there is of all this?
I say to him: the proof has already been given that the Spirit
is the real man, he to whom one speaks, he who assumes. The
visible organism of his material body is to him an abode in which
he finds himself imprisoned, but into which he has been made
to descend, because it is for him an instrument thanks to which
he attains exoteric and esoteric knowledge. So when it was re­
solved to send him down to this world, the nature of being
necessitated the intermediary of the sensitive, vital Soul bestowed
by the celestial Sphere, in order that there should be no hiatus
in the gradation of being and in the Emanation. When the time
comes to go back to its original world, the intermediary, that is
to say, the vital Soul emanated by the celestial Spheres, returns
to the Souls that move the Spheres, as it were, by reversion to a
mixture, just as a drop of water returns to the sea.
But the "1"-spirit survives, it stays awake, it does not succumb
to sleep. As ImAm Ja•far says: "When it returns, it returns to
the state in which it began." It is not a return to a mixture, but
a return to a state of juxtaposition because it survives. When the
wind of the first blast vibrates in the Trumpet, the "flashing
sound," it is then reabsorbed, each thing returning to its source.
It returns, and this is a return from juxtaposition. Because it was
sent down from the "six Treasuries,"80 it returns to them, its own
cessation leads to their separation; its archetypal Image returns
to the Treasury from which it descended. In the same way, its
materia prima,81 its nature, its soul, its pneuma, its intellect,
return each to the Treasury from which respectively they de­
scended. Those are the Treasuries alluded to, as we said, in the
verse in the Qur'An: "Nothing exists but that its Treasury is in
our Hands ( 15 : 2 1 ) ." Those are the TrenHurieN which in each
1 96

Shaikh AƆmad AƇsa'i, §4
case form a whole, which is the respective matrix of each
"I"-spirit, symbolically designated as the orifice or the "hole"
which corresponds to that spirit on Seraphiel's Trumpet.
As for the proofs of what we have stated, they are contained
not in one l;aadith alone, nor in tens of l;aadiths, but in a multitude
of traditions. However, their demonstrative value in discussion
can only be understood by meditating on many of them. Or
rather, it is a matter of letting oneself be guided by a higher
wisdom, and the proof furnished by the latter can only be recog­
nized as demonstrative thanks to special divine help, bestowed
by God on hearts that have attained full maturity, for "he to
whom wisdom has been giveQ has received much good
(2:272) ."
4. Alchemy and the Resurrection Body
( a ) ,.
Know that what returns to Paradise, in this case the earthly
Paradise, 33 is what is reaped by the Angel of Death, and that this
is man's essential reality, man in the true sense ( insan l;aaqlqi) .
The source and principle of his being is, in fact, composed of five
things: the intellect, the soul, the essential nature, the materia
prima, the Image or archetypal Form.84 The intellect is in the
soul. The soul, with everything it infolds, is in the incorruptible
nature. All these three together are in the materia prima, again
with all that is implied therein. When the Image or archetypal
Form is conjoined with the latter, then the original essential
body, (jism ƚli, jism B )  is realized,811 that is, the body which
is hidden in the material, visible envelope, in the elemental body
(jasad A )  formed from the four sublunar Elements: fire, air,
water, and earth.
The elemental material body ( jasad A ) ,  the body of perish­
able flesh, is the one that remains in the earth; its visible aspect
is destroyed there. This is the organic body that undergoes the
• Extract from the epistle addressed to FatJ:t-'Ali Shih QAjlr, Shah
of Perala ( 1707- 1 8:14. ) In Jnw.tmr ni-Jrnlim, Vol. I, Pt. 1 ,  5th rislla,
pp. 1!151-514..••
I P7

Article IX
phenomenon of growth by assimilating the subtle elements of
food. I have just said that its visible aspect, its "outemess," is
destroyed in the earth. But the fact is that its hidden invisible
element, its "innemess," survives; this is the spiritual body
(ja8ad B, caro spiritualis ) ,  which is not formed from the sub­
lunar Elements, but from the four Elements of the world of
H'ilrqalya, which are seventy times nobler and more precious than
the Elements of the terrestrial world. 88 This spiritual body rests
in the quiet state referred to in a verse from the Qur'ln. Indeed,
when the faithful adept has given an account of himself "in the
tomb,"87 he hollows out a channel for himself between the
"tomb" and the Paradise in the West through which repose and
sustenance come to him. It is said: "For him who is of the num­
ber of those brought nigh there shall be repose, sustenance, and
a sojourn in Paradise ( 56: 87-88 ) ." What is subject to this
repose is precisely the spiritual body (jasad B ) ,  the body formed
from the Elements of the world of H'ilrqalyi, and hidden within
the elemental, material body ( jasad A ) ,  the apparent visible
body, formed from the ordinary Elements of this world.
As for the body that remains with the Spirit (the "I" -Spirit)
at the time of the exitus, this is the essential body, the body in
the true sense ( the jism l,laqiqi, jism B ) ,  88 which is composed
of the materia prima and of the Image or archetypal Form
( mithal ) .  It is the support of the incorruptible nature, the Soul
and the intellect. It is the essential reality of man, of man in the
true sense. This essential body is of the same nature as the essen­
tial body of the universe: for the microcosm it is homologous to
the supreme sphere, the sphere that governs and defines spatial
orientations. Its capacity to experience enjoyment of food, drink,
touch, amorous delights, is seventy times greater than the capac­
ity of the elemental, material body.88 The "1"-Spirit is never
separated from this essential body, which itself is never sepa­
rated from the Spirit40 except at the time of the cosmic pause
marking the interval between the two blasts of Seraphiel's
Trumpet.
When Seraphiel causes the Trumpet to vibrate with the
"fiery blast,"41 which is the "breath of universal reabsorption,"

Shaikh Aƈmad AƉsa'i, §4
every Spirit is drawn in, reabsorbed in the particular "hole" in
the Trumpet which is its matrix. The matrix is made up of six
"Treasuries." As soon as it is drawn in, the "!"-Spirit meets its
own Image, or archetypal Form,u in the first Treasury; in the
second of these, it finds its materia prima; in the third, its in­
corruptible nature; in the fourth, its Soul; in the fifth, the
pneuma; in the sixth, the intellect. When these Treasuries are
disassociated, the "!"-Spirit is abolished and its power to work
also is abolished. It is in this sense alone that it can be said to be
"annihilated" (namely, until the second "blast" of Seraphiel's
Trumpet) .  But no mixture fusing the component parts takes
place, for such mixture applies only to the vegetable and animal
souls: to the vegetable soul because it is composed of the sub­
lunar Elements-fire, air, water, earth. When these elemental
parts are disassociated, they "return" to that from which they
came, there to be mixed with it, not put together with it, each
as an autonomous thing. The igneous parts return to the ele­
mental fire, are mixed and blend with it. In the same way, each
part returns to its place of origin-air, water, earth-there to
be mixed and blend with it." The same applies to the animal
Soul, which had its source in the movements of the celestial
Spheres. When it is separated it returns whence it arose, and is
mixed, not added to it, because it is merely a combination of
energies resulting from the energies of the celestial Spheres and
proportionate to the movements of the latter
•
•
•
•

u
Therefore, these two souls, vegetable and vital, return post
mortem to their source and blend with it. However, this is true
only of their outer part, their "exoteric" part (?:ahir) ;  for the
inner, "esoteric" part ( ba#n ) of the vegetable soul survives "in
the tomb"; this inner part is the Elements of Harqalyd and is
that body (jasad B )  which rests in "quietness and sojourns in
Paradise. "n As to the esoteric part of the vital soul, it is made
up of the "natures" of the Souls which move the Heavens of Har­
qalytl and goes to the "earthly Paradise," as we have already
said.41 To conclude: the spirit is never separated from its origi­
nal essential body ( ii•m B ) ;  it never leaves it-never, that is to
Hny, "dies" except during the Interval between the two blasts of

Article IX
the Trumpet; the first, which is the "flaming sound" or the in­
breath of universal reabsorption, and the second, which is the
breath of the Resurrection. 47
Now, as to this other question: "Should one understand the
Spirit by itself as being the Spirit with an Image or archetypal
Form, or with a subtle body?" The answer should be: "That
which enters the 'Earthly Paradise' is the Spirit (the '1'-Spirit)
with its original essential body ( jism ali, jism B )  , 48 because
in the Spirit there is the intellect, the intellect is in the soul, and
the latter is in the incorruptible nature. The essential body is the
materia prima which is their support, and the Image or arche­
typal Form conjoined to the latter. This is why the capacity to
feel and enjoy is, as we have said, seventy times greater in this
essential body than in the material body; because its enjoyment
is both sensory and spiritual. It is a spiritual/sensory faculty.
As to what survives invisibly 'in the tomb' (that is to say in
Horqalyl) this is the Spiritual body ( jasad B ) ,  which is made
from the Elements of Horqalyl, whereas the body made from
the four ordinary Elements (jasad A, the body of material
flesh ) is annihilated."
A number of symbols need to be pondered here. We will
mention one or two. Glass, for example; it is produced from
silica and potash, both of these, dense and opaque, are homolo­
gous to the elemental material body ( jasad A ) , the body of
perishable flesh with which we are all familiar. When subjected
to fusion, their impurity and dirt go away; we are left with
clear glass; the interior is visible through the exterior, the exte­
rior is visible through the interior.49 This, then, is homologous
to the spiritual body (jasad B ) ,  the caro spiritualis; the body
which survives "in the tomb," that is, in Horqalyl, and to which
"respite and sojourn in Paradise" are given, whereas the opaque
density of the silica and potash was homologous to the material
elemental body ( jasad A ) .  Consider how, from silica and potash,
dense and opaque, there issued a body in a transparent subtle
state. The latter is unquestionably the same mineral substance,
and yet it is not. It is something other.
Now, supposing this glass in its turn iH Huhjected to fusion:

Shaikh Aémad Aésti'i, §4
let a certain appropriate chemical be projected onto it and thor­
oughly penetrate the whole mass; the glass becomes very fine
and brilliant glass. If the Elixir of whiteness, the "philosopher's
chemical" be projected onto this fine glass, it then becomes a
crystal which flames in sunlight ( lens glass ) ,  because it causes
the sun's rays on striking its surface, to converge. It is certainly
still glass, and yet it is something other than glass; while remain­
ing glass, it is, however, glass to which something has happened,
something which has so completely purified it that now it ranks
much higher than the first glass. This incandescent glass is
homologous to the astral body ( jism A ) which accompanied the
Spirit at the time of the exitus, when the latter departs from its
elemental material body. It is the body with which the Spirit
enters the Western Paradise, the Paradise of Adam. Well then!
if this sparkling crystal is melted once again and the white
Elixir is again projected onto it, lo and behold! it becomes
diamond ( almiis ) .  It is still glass, and yet no-it is something
other-but not so, it is certainly itself but itself after undergoing
all these trials.
It was a mineral substance, dense and opaque; it was melted
and became transparent glass and then became a much finer
glass. And when this latter had been subjected for the first time
to fusion and projection of the white Elixir, it became incan­
descent crystal. It was fused a second time and the Elixir was
projected on it; it became diamond. Place it on the anvil, strike
it with a hammer, it will dent the anvil and the hammer but it
will not break. Strike it with a piece of lead and it will break
into cubiform fragments and if each cube in turn is struck with
the lead it will in its tum break into cubiform fragments. That
is the true sign that it really is diamond, but if it has become
diamond it is also a sign that the diamond was hidden in the
essential depths of the mineral substance, because, in fact, the
composition of the latter is the result of two well-known prin­
ciples, mercury and sulphur, according to what is established
in physics. And this diamond, separated from the crystal, this
crystal, separated from gla!ll', thi11 glass separated from its min­
eral opacity, i11 homologonN to the "Re11urrection Body" of the

Article IX
faithful believer in the Paradise of the future Aeon (that is to
say, jism B, the essential archetypal body, the corpus supra
coeleste, the "diamond body") . &o
Another symbol: tin. At first it is homologous to the elemental
body of flesh ( jasad A )  which we know in our terrestrial world.
When the white Elixir is projected on it, it becomes pure silver;
it is then homologous to the subtle Spiritual body (jasad B, caro
spiritualis ) ,  which survives invisibly in Hnrqalya.. But when the
red Elixir is projected on it, it becomes pure gold, and it is then
homologous to the astral body (jism A )  originating in the heav­
ens of Hnrqalya., which leaves the elemental body of flesh
(jasad A )  and accompanies the Spirit in its exitus, that is to
say, the subtle body which returns to Adam's Paradise post
mortem and tastes the delight thereof. If the red Elixir is pro­
jected a second time, this gold itself becomes an Elixir; it is
homologous to the original, essential body (jism B, corpus supra
coeleste ) ,  the one which enters the paradise of the future Aeon.
The fact that this gold has become Elixir is the sign and the
proof that it was hidden in the essential depths of tin, because
in fact its composition is the result of the two well-known prin­
ciples. Then this Elixir, freed from the gold, the gold freed
from silver, the silver freed from tin, is homologous to the
future Aeon. Many symbols of this still exist, which are well
known to those who possess inner sight. . . .
In the following table we can recapitulate the correspondances
analysed by Shaikh Abmad AQsi'l between the physiology of
the "resurrection body" and the phases of the alchem1cal Work:
THE HUMAN BODY
Jasad A: The elemental,
material body, the body
of perishable flesh,
composed of the
sublunar Elements
Jaƛad B :  Incorruptible
Spiritual body, caro
spiritual is, composed of
the Elements of
ALCHEMICAL HOMOLOGUES
Glaƛa
Silica and
potash (mercury
and sulphur)
fusion
T
Tin
tin
Admixture
of white
elitr
silver

Shaikh Ahmad Ahsci'i, §4
Hurqalyi. It survives
invisibly post-mortem
"in the tomb," that is,
in Hurqalyi. It will be
reunited with the
Spirit at the time of the
Great Resurrection
Jism A: The astral body,
composed of the
celestial matter of the
Heavem of Hurqalyi;
put on by the Spirit at
the time of its descent
to this world;
accompanies it at
the time of the exitus,
enters the terrestrial
Paradise (or the
infernum ) with it;
disappears at the time
of the Great
Resurrection and the
final union of jasad B
and jism B in the
corpus resu"ectionis
Jism B: The essential,
original body, the
archetypal body,
imperishable and
inseparable from the
Spirit ( okhema
symphyes ) , the
supracelestial body
made of six "treasures";
joined with jasad B,
forms the wholeness
of the resurrection body
("body of diamond")
in the Aeon to come.
(b) "'
I
fine glass
first ad'tnixture
of the white
elixir
flaming crystal
'
second
admixture
of white
elixir
diamond
first
admixture
of the red
elixir
gold
second
admixture
of red
elixir
elixir =
lapis
philosophorum
This commentary is as original as it is important. Shaikh Ab·
mad Absi'l here makes clear his standpoint in regard to Mulli
• Extract from the commentary by Shaikh Al,mld Al,sl'l on the
Th•o•ofllall of 11111 Thron1 by Mull I Tadrl (l;ladruddin ShirAzi) ,  Tabrlz,
H I7R/ I RI U ,  pp. l ft/1- ftft.11

Article IX
Ñadri's philosophy ( see above, Art. VI ) .  He neither adheres to
it nor systematically refutes it. It is impartial criticism, helping
better to situate the Shaikhi school in the general perspective
of Shrite thought. In his book, Mullii Ñadra poses all the prob­
lems relating as a whole to the posthumous becoming of the
human being, in the twofold aspect of "return" or "reversion" of
Spirits to their original world ( ma'tid) and the resurrection of
bodies. He remarks that the second aspect is not situated on
the same plane-the intelligibly evident-as the first. His
thought, being theosophical thought, employs rational argu­
ment as well as texts from the religious tradition. The conjunc­
tion of these is made possible by the practice of the ta'wil ( the
exegesis of the spiritual meaning ) , whose alchemical operation
is shown to be an application ( to hide the apparent, to manifest
the hidden ) .  This is exactly the operation that Shaikh AI,mad
AI,sii'I stresses, as in the above passage, showing correspond­
ence between the operatio secreta artis and the physiology of
the resurrection body. This correspondance even postulates an
anthropology in which the theme of the "Reversion," determin­
ing future metamorphoses is antithetical to the idea of reversi­
bility, which in general predominates in our historical points
of view.
Philosophical understanding, guided by the very thing which
proves that spirits are imperishable and return to their original
world, finds therein the evidence for the resurrection of bodies;
for resurrection of bodies and reversion of Spirits taken together
have one and the same cause. He who has meditated before the
"Philosophers' mirror" has been able to see it with his own eyes.
When I speak of the "Philosophers' mirror," I mean the opera­
tio secreta artis, 52 that is, the operation of the Elixir, for the
Philosophers have used it as a mirror in which everything ex­
isting is reflected in the same way as the return and resurrection
of Spirits.
As the Philosophers understand it, the demonstration can be
expressed as follows: The material existence of all that exists
in the world emanates from the divine Work, as light emanates
from a lamp. Everyone knows that this Operation is life, con­
sciousness, discrimination, power of choice. The closer some­
thing is to the Principle, the more powerful are these four things
in it; the further something is from the Principle, the weaker
these four things become in it. In the same wny, the light of the

Shaikh A!Jmad A!Jsa'i, §4
lamp is constant as to radiation, dryness, and heat; the nearer
something is to the lamp, the more powerful in it are these three
things; the further away it is, the weaker they become, until
finally the light vanishes and simultaneously these three things
vanish.
The act of existing can be seen in an analogous way in every
thing: the further something is from the Principle, the weaker
become the four realities composing its existence, which is the
divine Operation, until the extinction of the latter finally brings
about the extinction of the said realities. For the life which is
in the Spirit--consciousness, discrimination, power of choice­
all of this exists, indeed, in the body and even in mineral sub­
stance, but to an infinitely lesser degree than in the Spirit. To
say that bodies "become tired" is to say that they also are alive,
conscious, have discrimination and power of choice, in propor­
tion to their degree of participation in being. Hence this Qur'Anic
verse: "He said to the Heavens and the Earth: come, willingly
or in spite of yourselves. They said: 'we come willingly.' " Or
again: "nothing is that does not proclaim his praise, but you do
not understand their hymn.''53 Ample commentary on this has
been given in the present book.
For, in the last analysis, spirits are light-being in the fluid
state ( nar wujadi dha'ib ) .  Bodies are also light-being, but in
the solid state. The difference between them is the same as the
difference between water and snow. This is why the evidence
tending to the affirmation of the "return" of Spirits is itself the
evidence tending to affirm the resurrection of bodies. . . .
The alchemical Work testifies to the validity of this affirma­
tion. The fact is that bodies that have reached maturity and
completeness through this operation are in the liquid-solid state.
This is what the First Imam, 'Air ibn Abr-'falib, declares, ac­
cording to the report of his biographer Ibn Shahr-Ashub, and of
Abo'l-'Abba.s in his book bringing to light the secret concerning
the science of the Elixir. 8' Someone therefore asked the Imam
about alchemy, when he was delivering a discourse: "It is the
sister of prophecy," he exdnimed;
"for there is an immunity
which keeps prophet:y from heing desecrated, which is that

Article IX
ordinary people do no more than discuss its literal outer mean­
ing. I call God to witness that it is none other than water in the
solid state, immobilized air, compact fire, fluid earth.81 For
earth in the fluid stԒte is water in the solid state. In the same
sense bodies also are Spirits. . . .
"Bodies, as we have already said, are things which have come
down from 'archetypal Treasuries' to this terrestrial world, as
it is said in the verse: 'Nothing exists but its Treasury is with
Us and We send it not down but in a known measure ( 15: 2 1  ) • '
Given that each thing returns to its origin and principle, if bodies
were an exception, whether in the sense of survival in this world
or of annihilation, they would not 'return' to their origin and
principle. But this would contradict what is implied in the law
of universal return to the principle, universal resurrection, a
well-founded thesis on which philosophers and religious tradi­
tions agree. Hence, philosophical understanding discovers the
proofs of the resurrection of bodies in the manner described
above . . . .  "
( c )  •
Mulll ƛadrl ShirAzi: 58 The soul is spiritual "matter" ( mii.dda
rl?laniya ) ,  a subtle organism that can only receive Forms which
are themselves in the subtle and suprasensory state, such that
they are not perceptible to the physical senses, but only to the
organs of psycho-spiritual perception (the suprasensory senses) .
As against this, "material matter" ( hayala ) is a dense, opaque
matter capable of receiving Forms whose state is equally dense
and opaque, determined by spatial dimensions and positions,
mixed with virtualities and negativities.
Shaikh AQmad AQsl1: It is correct to say that the soul is a
subtle organism unable to receive any but Forms in a subtle,
suprasensory state. It is equally correct to say that it cannot be
perceived by our physical senses, because the latter are soiled
and paralyzed by the infirmities inherent in the elemental natures
of which the fleshly body is composed. As against this, to say
that Paradise, with its castles, houris, and the delights it con-
" Extract from the same work, pp. 33 1-32.

Shaikh AMmad ANsa'i, §4
tains are no more than "intentions," that is, consist only of pure
psychic Forms, imaginative Forms of the Malakut (the world of
the Animae coelestes ) ,  is something I cannot accept. For from
that point one would be forced to negate resurrection, as the
author ( Mulla ƛadra ) appeared to be doing in certain passages
referred to earlier in this book, at least judging from what the
literal sense of his words appears to convey. We have noted that,
in comparison with the doctrine of the holy Imams, what he says
does not sound like the words of one professing belief in bodily
resurrection.11
The fact is: to say that Matter, hyle, as such is dense and
dark is not correct. No matter can be seen as necessarily dense
and dark. Matter has other states. The celestial Spheres, for
instance, are not perceptible to our physical senses; not even the
Earth, that is, the Earth untrodden by the feet of the sons of
Adam ( i.e., the celestial Earth, the Paradise from which Adam
was exiled and whither the Spirit returns in its subtle body ) ,
for that Earth is in the subtle state, it cannot be perceived by the
eyes of this world, the eyes of flesh.
Furthermore, those who live in Paradise are all bodies deter­
mined by dimensions and positions: but the fact of being such
a body by no means excludes survival or perpetuity as such.
Certainly these spiritual bodies include no negativity, no density,
no opacity, since these are concomitants of alteration and substi­
tution, replacing what disappears by something weaker. But
these exactly are what are excluded from these bodies in the
world beyond our world. Therein even bodies are in perpetual
upward movement; if some change and replacement takes place
in them, it can only be thanks to some force and renewal coming
from above.
As for dimensions and positions, these are inherent in places
and in bodies. They are not incompatible as such with the state
of those who live in Paradise. The latter are similar to those
who dwell on Earth, except that they have no density, no opacity,
no tendency to weaken, no tendency toward decay and annihila­
tion. Their state is that of experiencing no replacement in their
bodies which is not a 11trengthenlng, no change which is not an

Article IX
increase in power, a renewal, a betterment. But why deny the
material reality of such experience (provided the matter thereof
does not descend to being the dense, dark matter of this world
below) ?  Those who live in Paradise in their spiritual flesh
( jasad B ) ,  in their essential original body (jism B ) ,  in their
"I" -spirit, are certainly the same persons who were in this world
below. One change alone has taken place in them: accidents
foreign to them, making them prey to destruction, have disap­
peared, darkness in them has been dispelled and has vanished.
Yes, when these bodies, such as you see them in our world,
have been completely purified of accidents foreign to them, the
way of being of those who were below rejoin the way of being
of those who are above. Then the spiritual bodies perceive of
and by themselves the spiritual realities of the Jabarilt as well
as the pure suprasensory forms of the Malakut.58 Reciprocally,
when Spirits whose existence is connected with these bodies in
order to govern them are completely purified from the disturb­
ance that rebellion mixed with their being, and from the uncon­
sciousness that condemned them to forgetfulness, then, of and by
themselves, they perceive their spiritual bodies and all the reali­
ties related thereto. In fact, for their bodies to be spiritualized,
to become spirits, they only have to will it; on the other hand,
for their spirits to be embodied, to become bodies, they likewise
have only to wish for it. n
There is a symbol of this situation in this very world, and
those who know will understand to what we refer. The natural
Philosophers, those who practice the secret science (i.e., the
Alchemists ) always described their work as follows: first they
dissolve the Stone, then they coagulate it with a portion of its
spirit.80 Next they dissolve the resultant, and once more coagu­
late it with a part of its spirit. Again they dissolve, again they
coagulate, and so forth. When they have treated the Stone,
according to their established rule, three times with the white
Elixir, then nine times with the red, the Stone will have become
spiritual-living-mineral substance ( lapis vivus ) . 8 1
This means that in itself it remains a body, but DR regards itR
work it has become spirit-a spirit able to "brinK to life" metuls
20H

Shaikh A"mad A"sa'i, §4
which are dead, for the spirit of definitive survival has been
blown into it. After the first part of the operation it is already
capable of bringing to life a mass one thousand times its own
weight, by fusing it with its own substance. Its thirst having
been quenched a second time ( i.e., after the second admixture
of the Elixir) , it is able to bring to life a mass two thousand
times its own weight. If it were to be saturated a thousand
times, its own weight would be able to bring to life a weight a
million times greater, and so on to infinity. It is said that a cer­
tain Philosopher projected the Elixir three hundred times onto
the Stone, and thereby vivified the equivalent of three hundred
thousand times its original weight.
The quantitative increase is proportionate to the qualitative
increase. If, for instance, the Stone's mass having been subjected
once to the red Elixir, six dissolutions followed by six coagula­
tions are performed upon it, the unit of its original weight is
multiplied forty-nine times, each unit of which is able to vivify
respectively a weight equivalent to two thousand times its own.
Thus, prior to this operation, we had a unit of weight· capable
of vivifying one thousand times its equivalent; this unit is now
multiplied by forty-nine, and each of these units in tum multi­
plies the Gold-making power of the original unit, which in
relation to it represents an increase of approximately a hundred
thousand units of weight, to the nearest two thousand units
(i.e., ninety thousand exactly) .
Such an operation would be inconceivable if it had to be
carried out on inert material bodies; on the other hand, it is
perfectly intelligible as soon as Spirits are in question. This is
why the Philosophers affirm: it is certainly a body, but its virtue
and operation are spiritual. So be sure you understand the sign,
the marvel here described. For this kind of corporeality is exactly
the marvel that characterizes the spiritual body of those who
live in Paradise. Certainly they are bodies with all the attributes,
conditions, and operations that belong to bodies; and yet they
carry out all the actions proper to pure Intelligences and Spirits,
and nrc able to perceive direl:tly for themselves what Souls and
I ntdliKtঽllCl'!l ( i.t௞., A 11/(t'li t•orlt'lllt'R and A nl(eli intellectuales )

Article IX
are able to perceive. Likewise, and reciprocally, the Intelligences
perceive for themselves directly the objects perceived by the
Souls and these bodies. Likewise, also, they perceive the Souls.
And this is the meaning of what we stated above: the way of
being of those who were below is joined with the way of being
of those who are above.
5. The Active Imagination and the Resurrection Body*
Mulla $adra Shirazi: Just as dimensional forms, plastic
shapes, and figures are produced by an active subject in propor­
tion to the suitability of a given matter and the participation of
their receptacle, so it may also be that they result from a pure
foundation, the active subject's way of picturing them; the
latter's activity is then the sufficient reason, without needing
the help of a receptacle, nor of its situs, nor even of the suitabil­
ity of a previously given matter.
The existence of the celestial Spheres and constellations falls
exactly into this category, since their existence is founded on
acts of contemplation and representations of the archangelic
Principles;81 it results from their active "dimensions," as from
divine knowledge of the most perfect order, without presup­
posing any receptacle or aptitude of preexisting matter. Now the
production of autonomous imaginative Forms falls into the same
category, subsisting without any material substratum and by the
single will emanating from the imaginative consciousness. The
latter, as you know, is independent of this world and of the
material forms perceived by the senses. One cannot say either
that they subsist through the organ of the brain, nor in the astral
mass of the Spheres, as certain people have believed, or even
in a universe of archetypal Images which could be conceived as
subsisting otherwise than through the soul itself.
Shaikh Ačmad Ačsa'i: In speaking thus about imaginative
Forms, MullA ƛadrA intends to point out that in all the Forms
that owe their existence to the pure activity of their agent, with-
• Further extracts from the above work (commentary on the Theo•ofJhll
of tht! Thront! ) ,  pp. 1 75-76, 179-80, 1 86-87 .

Shaikh AMmad AMsci'i, §5
out any need to presuppose a receptacle, or any suitable matter,
we must include the imaginative Forms that are produced solely
by the will, intention, and inclination of the imaginative con­
sciousness. They do not need a material substratum in order to
exist. They are conditioned neither by material causes nor by
any kind of receptivity. Actually imaginative Forms subsist by
the light of the imaginative power, for since the active Imagina­
tion is itself a psycho-spiritual power belonging to the world
of the Malakat, all the forms arising from it are of the same
nature as itself; these forms are independent of external, sensory
realities.
Imaginative power is like a mirror; a thing only has to be in
front of it for the mirror to manifest the form of this thing. If
the thing belongs to the world of the Malakat, it is revealed
there directly; if it belongs to the visible, material world, the
faculties of sensory perception have first to extract the form and
project it onto the semus communis,88 which transmits it to the
imagination. Everyone translates what is transmitted to him into
his own language, that is, he makes it into something of the
same nature as his own person. Thus, if it is something that
escapes the sensory perception, the Imagination takes from it its
subtle "celestial" Form ( malakatrya ) ;  it may be led thereto by
a word overheard or by some knowledge previously acquired or
by some other means.
That is why I personally should say that the imaginative
Forms are not merely creations of the Imagination but that they
are a creation of the creator of the Imagination, 8' who, in creat­
ing something, places it in the substratum that corresponds to it.
If it is a light, he places it in something that has a certain
opacity, because a light could not subsist in something like
elemental, absolutely pure, diaphanous air. If it is a Form, he
places it in a smooth and polished receptacle, like a mirror or
still water. If a light and a form belong to a world other than
the material, visible world, he places them in their own world,
proper to them. The imaginative Forms are not part of the world
of visible objects; he makes them apparent in a mirror which is
of exactly the same nature 111 thr.lr world. In his Book, God him-
i l l

Article IX
self says: "Whether ye hide your word or publish it abroad, God
has full knowledge of the secrets of all hearts. How should He
who created not know that which he created ( 6 7: 1S-14 ) . "
The imaginative Forms belong precisely to what is secretly
contained in the heart, and of which God has told us that if he
knows it, it is because he made it. Here again: "Nothing is which
does not have its Treasury with Us, and we send them down only
in strict measure ( 15 : 2 1 ) ." The imaginative Forms are also
things that He brings down from the Treasuries in a definite
measure into a substratum that is proper to Forms. True, Mullii
$adrA affirms that they are not "in a substratum," that is, in a
corporeal substratum. This is because he considers that all the
thinkers who maintain that the Forms have a substratum mean
that the Imaginative exists only in and through the brain. How­
ever, they do not all mean that the psycho-spiritual faculties are
immanent in the body; they mean that they are attached to it,
but in order to govern it.
This having been set forth clearly, it is evident that the
imaginative Forms belong to the world of the Malakut, as does
the imaginative power itself. They subsist through the mirror
which is the imaginative consciousness. Their "matter" is the
illumination (ishraq ) that projects the Form itself of the thing
imagined. Their "form" is the very conformation of the mirror
constituted by the Imagination. The mirror includes greatness,
purity, whiteness, or else their opposites. We have previously
had occasion to recall that in the second Heaven, the Heaven
of Mercury, three Angels, Maymo.n, Sha'mO.n and Zayto.n, have
the function of causing the epiphany of the imaginative Forms to
appear; each of these Angels has a multitude of angels at his
service, whose number, according to practitioners of the theurgic
art, is known to God alone. One can take for granted that the
creator and producer of the imaginative Forms is God himself;
however, according to the law of His creative work, acting
through intermediate causes, He has created the imaginative
Power in the shape of a mirror that makes the forms appear on
receiving a kind of imprint of them. . .
.
Mulla $adrii Shirazi ( pp. 179-80 ) :  Thr imuginutive power
2 1 2

Shaikh Abmad Absci'i, §5
in man-1 mean the degree or imaginative level of his spiritual
"1''-is a substance existing independently, as regards its es­
sence and its operation, of the material body which is the object
of sensory perception and of the tangible habitation. As we al­
ready said, at the moment when the bodily mold is annihilated, it
survives-obliteration and dissolution have no effect on it; at the
moment of death, it can be touched by the bewilderment and
bitterness of death because of its immersion in the material body,
but post mortem it continues to see itself as a human being with
dimensions and shape corresponding to those that were its own
in this world, just as it can picture to itself its body inert and
buried.
Shaikh Ahmad A?Jsa'i: The power of imagination is without
doubt consubstantial with the soul, is an organ comparable in
that respect to what the hand is for the body. The soul perceives
sensory objects through its organ alone, since the soul belongs
to the world of the Malakat. In fact, with respect to the soul, the
Imagination is like the Soul of the Heaven of Venus in relation
to the Soul of the Heaven of the constellations (the Heaven of
the fixed stars, the Zodiac ) .  "It is independent of the material
body," says Mulla ƛadrA. Now we would like to recapitulate
briefly all the inferences of this statement, in accordance with
our doctrine. We have said that Zayd has two jasad and two
jism.65 We would like to complete what we have already said
about it, and add in conclusion the following clarifications.
The first jasad ( jasad A ) : Let it be understood that this is the
visible body, the material fleshly body, composed of the four Ele­
ments of our world; the plants also have a body in their fashion.
After death, this body is gradually annihilated in the tomb; each
of its elemental components, in dissolving, returns to its origin,
where it blends with it and is lost in it; the earthly parts return
to the Earth, where they intermingle; the fluid, aerial, igneous
parts each blend with their respective element.
The second jasad ( jasad B ) is hidden in the first; it also is
composed of Elements, not the Elements of our world, but of
the world of IIOrqalyA from which it came down. All its separate
purts and the connection11 l௝twr.en them endure "in the tomb,"
2 1 ˭

Article IX
because it keeps its "shape" so well that all its parts remain
perfectly articulated. This body that preserves its perfect shape
"in the tomb" is that imperishable "clay" of which the ImAm
Ja•far $Adiq was thinking when he declared: ''The clay of which
it was composed continues to exist in its perfect shape in the
tomb." What we have to understand by the lasting perfection
of this "shape" is that the parts that make up the head, cor­
responding to the "headstone" of the tomb, remain joined to the
elements of the neck, which remain linked with the elements
of the bust, which remain connected to the parts of the belly, the
latter to the legs, even if a marine monster or some wild beast
has devoured the body of material flesh ( jasad A )  or if it has
been mutilated, and its parts scattered in different places, or
even wrongly reassembled.
When the elements of this invisible body (jasad B )  have
become disassociated and freed from the material flesh com­
posed of lower Elements, their entire structure remains un­
changed "in the tomb. "88 And what is more, even if the material
body is not buried in the tomb, they retain this structure. For
when we talk about this other body, what we should understand
by the "tomb" ( it is not the cemetery) is the original place, the
womb87 from which the "clay" was extracted and mixed by the
Angel with the twofold fluid issued from father and mother.
Being incorruptible, this "clay" will coagulate the water flowing
down from the ocean of $Ad (situated below the Throne ) when
the time comes for the breath of the great Awakening to vibrate
in the second blast of the Trumpet. It is this body, this spiritual
flesh, that the Spirit will assume on the day of the great Resur­
rection.
Perhaps, you will say, as others have already, that the appar­
ent meaning of my exposition is to rule out the possibility that
the first jasad (jasad A, the elemental body of corruptible flesh )
can "return," and that one must concur with the thesis denying
and rejecting bodily resurrection. 88 In that case, I would point
out that when speaking of the second jasad (jasad B, the body of
resurrection ) this is also that very body that is visible and tan­
gible today. But, precisely, in order for it to be the "resurrection
2 1 4

Shaikh Ahmad Ahsa'i, §5
body," it must have been broken, pulverized, and reshaped in a
form that excludes all corruption and decrepitude, whereas the
present earthly form is dissolved forever. This outer form, gone
forever, and described as a composite of the sublunar Elements,
is the one to which the Amtr of the believers (the First Imam )
alluded in the ?ladith relating to souls, mentioned above, wherein
he declared concerning the vegetable soul in man: "When it is
separated, it returns to its origin, there to blend and be lost, not
to survive there autonomously." In short, by the first elemental
jasad ( jasad A ) we mean the earthly accidents. For when the
second jasad ( jasad B, the spiritual flesh made of the Elements
of Horqalya, the resurrection body) came down into this world,
accidents issuing from the Elements adhered to it, just as when
you have worn a garment for some time, the dirt adheres to it
but is not a part of it. All you have to do is to wash it and these
accidents will go away, and the garment will lose nothing of
what made it what it is. Therefore ponder and understand the
doctrine of your ImAms and spiritual guides.
As for the first jism ( jism A, the astral body made of the
influx from the Heavens of Hnrqalya ) ,  we said that it is with
this body that the "I" -spirit departs from the elemental, material
body ( jasad A ) when the Angel of Death seizes it. The arche­
typal body ( jism B )  continues to exist with this actual body, the
latter being the accumulator of its energies in the intermediate
world or barzakh (until the first blast of the Trumpet, that is,
until the great cosmic pause ) .  When Seraphiel's breath causes
the Trumpet to vibrate for the first time, the Spirit casts off the
jism A and disappears. Actually, this body is also an accident,
like the first jasad (jasad A, the elemental material body ) ,  but
in its case an accident of the intermediate world or barzakh; it
also is a form which the Imam Ja•far, as we mentioned pre­
viously, compares to a brick that is broken; when reduced to
dust, its first shape has gone forever; but replaced in the mold,
it emerges identical to itself in one respect, but different in
another. As God says in his Book: "Each time their skin will be
commmed we will replace it by another, so that they may taste
thr. ""''"ti11r.ment." In all fairness, they cannot be given a skin
2 1 5

Article IX
other than their own: that would be chastisement for a non­
existent fault, or being obliged to suffer the chastisement for the
fault of another. No, it really is the first skin. Yet, since it has
been consumed, its first form, which was an accident, has gone
forever. Therefore, when it returns, it is true to say that it is
different if one considers the change, substitution, and renewal
of the form; whereas, if one considers its matter, it remains the
same skin.89
This is why we can sum it up as follows: the first jasad
( jasad A )  is the form belonging to the lower Elements. The
first jism (jism A )  is the form belonging to the intermediate
world or barzakh; the latter is the prototype of the former. When
you break your seal and reshape another seal, similar to the first,
from the same matter, the soul has lost nothing essential, for
it is certainly itself; but it has shed one accident and assumed
another accident. The first accident would here correspond to
jasad A (the material body) in this present life, whereas the
second accident would be homologous to jism A, the astral body
in the intermediate world, or barzakh. The "1"-soul is different
from the elemental jasad A, which is annihilated after death; it
is different also from the imperishable jasad B (the elemental
body of HurqalyA, the body of spiritual flesh) , and it is different
lastly from the jism A (the astral body, which will not reappear
from the moment of the return of the jasad B at the great
Resurrection ) . As for jism B (the essential or archetypal origi­
nal body) , it is forever identical to itself. To go into this in detail
would take a long time; suffice it to recall one essential thing
which will lead you to the knowledge of many other things.
So we shall still add the following: When the "1''-spirit, that
which the Angel of Death gathers up and carries away, has
finally shed its astral body ( jism A )  , 70 it also will disappear,
but only during the interval (the "cosmic pause") between the
two "blasts of the Trumpet." When we speak of its disappear­
ance, what we in fact mean is that when the Angel of Death
gathers up the "1"-spirit from its material body (jasad A ) ,  this
spirit "goes away" though keeping its original preterrestrial
2 1 6

Shaikh Amad Asa'i, §5
structure (jism B )  intact, and that it survives in the banakh in
the waking state and in full consciousness.
As the Ima.m J a•far said, when commenting on this descrip­
tive verse ( 79:  13 ) ,  "It will sound but once, since all are in the
waking state."
This first sounding of Seraphiel's trumpet is the one referred
to as the "fiery blast"; it is an intake of breath and draws up the
spirits in order to reabsorb them in Seraphiel's Trumpet. Each
"1"-spirit goes back into its own matrix, symbolically represented
as one of the "holes" perforated in the length of the Trumpet;
this is the place from which it was originally extracted, the place
from which it came out in order to go down toward the bodies
at the time of its preceding existence. The matrix itself com­
prises six dwellings or habitations: into the first of these the
Image or archetypal Form of the "1"-spirit is breathed; its subtle
consubstantial matter into the second; into the third, its luminous
nature corresponding to the igneous Element; into the fourth,
its soul corresponding to the fluid Element; into the fifth, its
own pneuma, corresponding to the aerial Element; into the
sixth, its consubstantial intellect. When we speak of its disap­
pearance, we refer to this separation and disintegration of the
six constitutive principles (of its essential body, jism B ) . The
"!"-spirit then no longer possesses consciousness or feeling. Dur­
ing this pause, the six constitutive principles are not dissolved in
mixture, for each retains its specific reality; they remain as
though side by side in their respective autonomy.
When the divine Will intends to renew Creation and to cause
the seeds from the preceding existence to germinate, Seraphiel
is commanded to blow into the Trumpet the breath of the great
Awakening. As opposed to the "blazing sound," this is a propul­
sive breath. Entering the sixth dwelling, it propells the intellect
towards the pneuma in the fifth dwelling; next it propells intel­
lect and pneuma together toward the soul in the fourth dwelling;
then it propels all three together, intellect, pneuma, and soul,
towards the luminous nature in the third dwelling; then it pro­
pels all four together towards the subtle consubstantial matter

Article IX
in the second dwelling; finally it propels all five toward the
Image or archetypal Form in the first dwelling. Then the
"!"-spirit finds again its composition and structure, its conscious­
ness and capacity to feel.
On the other hand, before the vibration of the breath of the
great Awakening, the water of the sea of $lld, situated below
the Throne, comes down and rains over the surface of the Earth.
Then J as ad B, the spiritual body made of the Elements of
Ho.rqalya, serves as a "vehicle" for the new form, the "second
accident" referred to above. Its structure being completed, its
"!''-spirit enters it. This is what is meant when the "headstone of
the tomb's bursting" is symbolically mentioned. For then the
individual arises in his imperishable Form, shaking the terres­
trial dust from his head. "As you were made in the beginning,
that you will again become ( 7 : 28 )  ," as it is said. So here we
have very briefly all the points we wish to cover in speaking of
the fourfold bodily organism of the human being: a twofold
jasad or elemental body, the one accidental (jasad A, the ele­
mental body of perishable flesh ) , the other essential ( jasad B,
the body made of the Elements of Hilrqalya, the imperishable
spiritual flesh ) ;  and a twofold jism, the one accidental (jism A,
the astral body ) the other essential (jism B, the archetypal body
inseparable from the "I" -spirit ) .
In these pages, which were written in response to the passage
in which Mulla Ðadra affirms that the imaginative power sur­
vives, Shaikh A}:lmad A}:lsii'l has summed up the entire physi­
ology of the body of resurrection, without which Mullii Ðadra's
affirmation would have no support. Doubtless, a very important
point is the one in which form is described as an accident that
· goes away without returning, whereas matter, its permanent
element in its different states, is "that which returns"; and this
precisely because new form means metamorphosis, the trans­
mutation of matter "returning" to the state of incorruptible
spiritual matter. The terminology peculiar to Shaikh Abmad
must evidently be taken into account. Mulla Ðadra's successors
-for example, Hadl Sabzavirl in the last century (d. 1 878 )­
have sometimes missed his point, as evidenced by certain crit­
icisms that fall wide of the mark. In any case, the page trans­
lated below is the best iilustration of what Shaikh Ahmad
Absa'l means; it is also the best tronNitinn tn
u subsequent

Shaikh A/.lmad A/.lsa'i, §5
extract, from one of the great works written by one of his emi­
nent successors at the head of the Shaikhl school. •
As for Form, if contrary to the opinion of MullA $adrA, I say
that it is an accident and is not "that which returns," it is because
form is a conformation of matter. What "returns" in reality is
matter in a certain form, but this form is precisely the work of
the individual person. Even if the matter undergoes metamor­
phosis, exchanges one species for another in terms of the forms
corresponding to the person's acts, nevertheless that which
returns, which "comes to life again," is precisely that which
assumes Form, and not, as MullA $adrA thinks, Form itself.
For example, the outer appearance of Zayd was initially created
in a human form, solely because of the affirmative answer he
gave in preeternity to the question "Am I not your Lord?
( 7: 171 ) . "71 If he fulfills the pact into which he entered and
works accordingly, then his "esoteric nature," the inner man, is
also created in human form, thanks to his action. He truly dies
and comes to life again as a human being, because then his
consubstantial matter, through his work, is homogeneous in the
true meaning to the matter of human reality.
On the other hand, if he betrays his pact and complacently
follows evil passions, his consubstantial matter will assume a
form to match it, the form of a beast, even though he will con­
tinue externally to assume the form of a human being which will
be like a veil before God, and a test for those who remain faith­
ful to the pact. So says this verse: "The hour will come which
I wish to keep hidden, so that every soul may gather the fruits
of its effort ( 20: 15-16 ) ." When he dies and his outer human
form disappears "in the tomb" and goes to the Throne (that is,
withdraws into Hurqalya. ) , then at once the form of an animal
manifests in him, since it is the very form of his work, his
consubstantial matter now being available for this form that
matches it. He will be brought back to life as an animal, because
his personal work will have made this matter of his into some­
thing homogeneous to the matter of an animal. Matter is, in fact,
• F.xtract From pp. 1 86-87 Follow1.
2 1 U

Article IX
the substance that is made available for and by what he has done,
and is shaped by the very form of his work.
In the world of seminal reasons Zayd had apparently an­
swered "yes" to the question asked on the day of the preeternal
Covenant, while secretly his choice fell on his own passion. 72 He
apparently chose rightly when he answered in the affirmative
the question that was put to him. But though his choice was
sufficient to commit him to the effort, nevertheless his secret
state of mind outweighed the formulated answer. For this an­
swer was certainly on his lips, but his secret tendency contra­
dicted it. After he descended into this world, and the effort he
had to make was shown to him a second time, everything was
dissipated in doubt and confusion. His case was confirmed by
the following verse: "They could not consent, for they had pre­
viously denied ( 7 : 99 )  ."
Thus, the secret thought contradicting the answer which was
then formulated, was the matrix of the work later carried on by
evil passion. That is why this secret thought is surely the "clay"
from which Zayd was created by his own works, and he can but
rise again with it. For at the very moment when his secret
thought was contradicting his answer, his "clay," that is, the
consubstantial matter of his being, was molded by this thought
in the likeness of an animal, being henceforth the only matter
available for the germination of his own seminal reason. So when
he descended to this world, when he had settled down there in
accordance with his choice, and when he had consummated his
choice by repetition and by applying his effort to what he had
already undertaken in the world of seminal reasons, what had
existed in his secret thoughts was revealed in the light of day
and he manifested the works of his animal nature.
That is also why he is resurrected in the animal state, since
all his consubstantial matter had been molded by his works,
which were homogeneous to the substantial nature of an animal.
For in truth Form is the configuration of matter; therefore it is
the configuration of the thing "which returns," it is not the thing
itself. That is why the Imam Ja•far compares it with the brick

Shaikh Amad Asa'i, §5
of potter's clay which is broken, and again replaced in the mold.
It is indeed the same brick, and yet it is another brick: the matter
is the same, but the form is different. . . .  Each individual, when
resurrected, assumes the form which, thanks to his works, has
lodged in his most secret part ( p. 227 ) .
22 1

X
SHAIKH l:I.A.JJ MUJ:IAMMAD KARIM
KH.A.N KIRM.A.N I ,  SECOND SUCCESSOR
OF SHAIKH AJ:IMAD AJ:iSA'I
(d. 1288/1870 )
1 .  In What Sense the Body of the Faithful Believer
is the Earth of His Paradise "'
Inasmuch as in this world there are certain accidents that are
not inherent in the human body and are not an integral part of
that body, you should understand that such accidents do not
have to rise again with a man. The only body which is raised
from the dead is the human body in its individual, archetypal
state; this is the body to which everything known as "reward"
or "punishment" occurs. This body persists through all the suc­
cessive states from earliest infancy until the moment of death.
Or rather, it is already there in the seed of the human being and
in all the successive stages: embryonic, moment of birth, first
breath, and so forth. It is a body which has length, breadth,
depth, color, shape, and structure, just like the other bodies,
except that it has the advantage, as an archetype, of retaining its
identity, whereas all the accidents of this earthly world are
ephemeral, appear and disappear. This body is the resurrection
body, the one referred to when it is said that it enters Paradise
or Hell.•
But here a subtle theme comes in, which requires explanation.
The structure of the archetypal body ԓf man depends on his
works and on the feeling he professes about the world and about
God. When the inmost faith he professes is genuine, when his
behavior is virtuous and pure, in harmony with the very pure
• Extract from the lrh4tl al-'aw4mm (Spirittutl Directive• for the
U1e of the Faithful ) ,  Kirman, 1 354/ 1 935 , Vol . I, Pt. 2, pp. 48--49, 66-
68, 27 1 , 277, 282-86. This work is entirely In Ptrllan.'

Shaikh Muhammad Karim Khan Kirmani, §1
religion of the Messenger of the end of time, then the form of
his primordial spiritual body is truly the human form.• For, in
fact, the human form corresponds to the Divine Will as a light
does to its source. You see, for example, how the light of the
sun corresponds to the conformation of the sun, moonlight to
the conformation of the moon, and lamplight to the conforma­
tion of the lamp. Therefore the light of the Divine Will neces­
sarily corresponds to the form of that Will. This is why man,
who is the light of the Divine Will, takes on that very form.
Now the Divine Will is God's well-beloved-the object of his
love; its nature and mode of being thus correspond to love and
divine desire. Or rather, this Will is what Divine Love itself is.
The two shades of meaning expressed by the Arabic terms for
will ( mashi•a ) and desire ( irdda ) are combined in Persian in a
single word expressing the idea of wish as both will and desire
( khwahish ) .  The Divine Will is God's wish and God's wish is
none other than His Love, for God cannot will anything other,
wish anything other than His Love. In combination, therefore,
Divine Will and Divine Desire take on the form of Divine Love.
But the human form, on the other hand, being the light of the
Divine Will, assumes the very form of the Will. And this is
why the human form is the God's beloved, the object of the
Divine Love.
Thus we understand that God ordains for man only what is
the object of His Love and forbids him only what He abhors.
That is why all the Prophet's prescriptions are in harmony with
Divine Love. Divine Love is the very form of the Divine Will
which is the wish of God, His fondest desire. It follows that the
prophetic religion is in harmony with the form of the Divine
Will. Thus the conformation of the inmost being of him who
acts in accordance with this religion assumes the very form of
the Divine Will, which is the object of Divine Love, or rather is
that love itself. Hence such a man will be God's well-beloved,
and that is exactly what God commanded his Prophet to teach
men: "If you Jove God, follow me so that God may Jove you
( S :  29 ) ." Thus, following the Prophet is what makes God love
man. And Following the Prophr.t mean11 to model your own way

Article X
of being and acting on the example of the Magnanimous One
( buzurgvar) ;  it means to model the form of your own being
in the likeness of his . . . .  He who shapes his outer body and his
inner being on the model of the Prophet, such a one is surely the
friend and beloved of God, since he who makes himself abso­
lutely similar to the friend of someone, also becomes the friend
of the latter. And the Prophet is God's beloved, because he
assumes the form of God's wish, the form of His Will and His
Desire . . . .
( Pp. 66-68 ) The paradise of the faithful believer is his own
body.4 His virtuous works, after the manner previously de­
scribed, are its trees, fresh running water, castles, and houris. 5
The Gehenna of the unbeliever is likewise nothing but his own
body; his hateful works are its fiery furnaces, monsters, serpents,
dogs, dragons, and so on. Perhaps you will think that under the
guise of spiritual interpretation I am transposing everything into
pure allegory? Perhaps you are wondering how the human body
of a believer, a minute human body, could be a paradise, when
the faithful believer is promised a paradise a thousand times the
size of this world? And how the body of the ungodly man could
be his Gehenna, when Hell is immense and described as contain­
ing abysses and fiery mountains? God forbid that a philosopher
should talk without rhyme or reason! So pay attention, in order
to understand the reality and true meaning of the theme we are
discussing here.
You have already been given to understand that the faithful
believer possesses a certain body, which includes something acci­
dental. Everything that in this terrestrial world can be seen by
the organs of physical perception is accidental, mere coloring
and appearance passing through successive states that appear
and disappear without in any way being an integral part of the
essential or archetypal body. This body which you are now see­
ing, with its minute material dimensions, is the accidental body;
in no way is it an integral part of the essential body. As for the
essential or archetypal body, for instance thnt of Zayd, it iN
fashioned according to the extent of hi11 k nnwlrdge, to his cupuc-

Shaikh Muhammad Karim Khan Kirmiini, §1
ity to understand, to his spiritual consciousness, to his moral
conduct; for the more developed his spiritual consciousness, the
nobler his moral conduct, the subtler also will be his essential
body. Now, the subtler this body becomes, the greater also is its
magnitude. It is in this sense that the size of the paradise of the
faithful adepts is measured by their knowledge, their spiritual
consciousness, and their moral conduct. The more "gnostic,"
faithful, and perfect they are, the vaster appears their paradise,
and the more their body grows. The volume of the paradise
of one faithful adept may be seven times the volume of this
terrestrial world; in the case of another it can be ten times
greater, and for still another a million times. Each of them
creates for himself a dwelling place in proportion to the capacity
of his spiritual energy. 6
That is why the essential or archetypal body of the faithful
adepts is the very Earth of their Paradise, just as the essential
body of the impious man is the very Earth of his Gehenna. The
narrowness of the place, its sordid filth, its dense gloom, the
suffering he endures there, are in proportion to his impiety and
his dissociation from the One. 7 Try to understand what I mean.
This is a very subtle theme: nobody can escape from himself,
get out of himself; nobody becomes someone other than himself;
nothing becomes something other than itself.
Don't tell yourself that the state which I have just described
is not exactly the one made known to us by divine Revelation.
I call God as witness! Paradise abounds in houris, castles, green
plants, and fresh running water, unlimited-just as described in
the Revealed Book-but not as they are depicted by your fan­
tasy.8 We are not the community of our fancy; we are the
community of the Prophet, we follow the Book of the Tradition.
Are you not aware that when you hear the word tree in the
Qur'an, you picture to yourself trees exactly like the trees of this
world? Now, there is a verse that declares: ''Their fruits are
below" ( 69: 2S ) ,  which means that the top of the trees of Para­
dise are below. His Holiness the Amlr of the Believers, our
First ImAm, observes by way of commentary: "The trees of
PurudiNe nre the inverse of the trees of this world. The trees of

Article X
Paradise have their root above and their branches below."'
When you hear the words "fresh running water" you imagine a
stream like the streams of this world, whereas it is said that the
Tasnim (cf. 8S: 27 )  enters the abodes of the inhabitants of
Paradise from above. Therefore it behooves me to deal with
these questions in conformity with the Revealed Book and our
Tradition, not according to your fantasy.
Therefore I declare that the essential or archetypal body of
the faithful adept is itself his Paradise. He himself is inside his
own Paradise, in this world already as in the Aevum to come.
The archetypal body of the impious man is itself his Gehenna;
he dwells in his own Hell, in this world as well as in the world
to come. Have you not heard it said that the "clay" out of which
the faithful believer is made belongs to the Earth of Paradise,
whereas the "clay" of the impious man belongs to the Earth of
Gehenna? So that the Earth of Paradise is Paradise, and the
Earth of Gehenna is Gehenna. As regards Paradise or Hell, to
each one can be given only what he is capable of receiving, and
which is of the same nature as the "clay" of which he is made.
No one is qualified to taste reward or punishment that surpasses
the extent of his fitness. From the First Day, each one has been
given the Last Day. If, in the preterrestrial world, the world of
seminal reasons, he was a faithful adept, he was then and there
worthy of reward, and he was given a proportionate share of
the Earth of Paradise. If, on the other hand, he deserved punish­
ment, he was given a proportionate share of the Earth of
Gehenna. No faithful believer becomes more of a believer in
this world than he himself decided in the preterrestrial world.
No impious one becomes more impious than he decided in the
preterrestrial world. To each one is done and given according
to his faith or his faithlessness. Ponder on what I am saying
so as to make no mistake, since this is a subtle question.10
Having said this, we must still mention that Paradise com­
prises eight degrees, and that Gehenna comprises seven. Many
faithful believers are in the first degree of Paradise; many of
them are in the second degree, and so on up to the eighth. In­
versely, many impious are in the first circle of Hell; as well as

Shaikh Mu/:l.ammad Karim Khan Kirmii.ni, §1
in the second and the seventh. The reason for this is that the
Lord of the worlds incorporated eight "handfuls of Heaven"
into the archetypal body of the believer, eight "handfuls" of
primordial matter belonging to the Heavens of his universe, as
we explained previously. His body contains one handful of the
subtle matter of the first Heaven (that of the moon ) ,  and his
spirit ( rač, vital pneuma ) was made from this "handful of
Heaven"; one handful of the subtle matter of the second Heaven
(that of Mercury) and his meditative power was made from this
"handful of Heaven;" his imaginative power was made from a
handful of the third Heaven (that of Venus ) ; one handful of
the fourth Heaven (that of the Sun ) constituted his "consub­
stantial matter: "  one handful of the fifth Heaven (that of Mars )
constituted his representative faculty; a handful of the sixth
Heaven (that of Jupiter) constituted his cognitive power; one
handful of the seventh Heaven (that of Saturn ) constituted his
individual intellect; one handful of the eighth Heaven (the
Heaven of the Fixed Stars, Kursf, the Firmament ) constituted
his soul. And finally, his body contains a handful of the subtle
matter of the Throne ( •arsh, the Empyrean ) ;  from this is formed
his essential and fundamental reality •11
Consequently, when the believer obeys his vital spirit, and
nothing above that has been manifested in him, then that be­
liever is on the first level of paradise. When he obeys his medi­
tative power, he is on the second level of paradise and so on:
whichever level in himself he obeys, which manifests in him and
determines his spiritual rank, is also his rank in Paradise, on
the level corresponding to him. He belongs to the spiritual fam­
ily that is situated on this level. Every higher level, compared
to the lower level, is so vast that if one were to compare the
lower level with the higher level the latter would seem like the
circle of the horizon arising at the boundary of the immense
desert. This is so to such an extent that the lowest level of all
is still seventy times11 higher than our terrestrial world.
In the same way, the body of the impious man comprises
seven "handfuls of earth," seven handfuls of the matter of the
circles of Sijjtn.11 The first belonK" to the Earth of death, the

Article X
second to the Earth of innate tendencies, the third to the Earth
of nature, the fourth to the Earth of lust, the fifth to the Earth
of fury, the sixth to the Earth of aberration, the seventh to the
Earth of abomination. Therefore, in the event that the source
of the negative attitude of the impious man is the first "handful
of earth" of his being and the second is not manifested in it,
then he dwells in the first circle of Gehenna. If the source is the
second handful, and the third does not appear in it, then he
dwells in the second circle of Hell. And so forth: as the descent
proceeds, each circle becomes narrower and narrower, more
and more wretched, compared to the preceding one. Thus,
each one continues according to his fundamental nature, until
he returns to his origin. . . .
(P. 271 )  Know that a creature has two faces or dimensions;
the one is its divine face or dimension, the other is the face or
dimension of its own selfhood. By divine face or dimension what
must be understood is not that creatures are God, but have a
face or dimension toward God which is Light, Good, Perfection,
because each creature is a trace born of the Divine Will and,
since the Divine Will is Light, Good and Perfection, the trace
naturally resembles that which imprinted it. The other face or
dimension of the creature is its face toward itself, and this dimen­
sion is darkness, evil, deficiency. All creatures are made with
these two faces or dimensions. However, the nearer the creatures
are to the primordial Will, the more abundant is their light and
the more rarefied their darkness. On the other hand, the farther
away they are from that primordial Will, the denser becomes
their darkness and the weaker their light. On the one hand,
therefore, everything is light on the plane coinciding with the
greatest proximity to the primordial Will; there, the proportion
of darkness is but that of a speck of dust, its effect is exhausted;
it is but a drop of water lost in the ocean. On the other hand,
all is darkness on the plane most distant from the primordial
Will; there, only one atom of light remains [Fig. 3].
The light and darkness can be represented in the form of
two intersecting triangles, as suggested hy tht' uhove diuKrnm.
22R

Shaikh Mu!Jammad Karim Khan Kirmani, §1
Triangle of Light
Triangle of Darkness
Figure ֎·
The upper triangle is the triangle of light; the base of this tri­
angle (at the top of the diagram ) is the light which is very close
to the primordial Will; at one point it is touched by one of the
apexes of the triangle of darkness. The base of the lower triangle
-which is this triangle of darkness-is at the maximum dis­
tance from the primordial Will; it is touched at one point by the
apex of the triangle of light. Therefore, everything is light very
close to the primordial Will; there is just a trace of an atom of
darkness. But, with the downward movement, the light grad­
ually diminishes while the darkness increases, until, at the end,
the darkness prevails; there remains only a trace of an atom of
light. On the other hand, with the upward movement the dark­
ness wanes, while the light waxes, until it reaches the point
nearest to the primordial Will . . . half-way between the two
limits, light and darkness are equal. From this it can be under­
stood that in case a "handful of matter" is taken upwards from
the center, and if a creature is formed O'Ut of this matter, light
will prevail in this creature over darkness. But if the "handful
of matter" is taken downwards from the center, and a creature
is molded out of it then, on the contrary, darkness will prevail in
this creature and light will be overcome.a
( P. 277 ) Work fulfilled is itself the reward, and the reward
i!i itHelf the accomplished task. However, it must be added that

Article X
in this world works and actions are visible to the eyes of your
body as outer appearances, whereas in the other world these
same actions are seen in other forms (their apparentiae reales ) .
Some are seen in the shape of castles, others in the shape of
houris, of plants, trees, or streams of living water, others in the
form of birds, camels, or horses, in the manner and sense which
we went into previously. All of them, in fact, are attributes and
qualities of the man himself; they are the outer manifestations
of his inner being. For all of them are there in the other world,
where they surround him and become his reward. . . . Earlier
we described the process by which works and actions are thus
shaped, and take the form, now of minerals, now of vegetables,
now of animals, now of houris and attendants in Paradise, or, on
the contrary, become his companions in Gehenna
. . .
. 11
(Pp. 282-86 ) When it is said that Paradise is in Heaven and
Gehenna is in the Earth, that is because the human being has
two dimensions: a dimension of light and a dimension of dark­
ness. His dimension of light is the Heaven of his being; his di­
mension of darkness is the Earth of his being. Every faithful act
a man does is done through his dimension of light. Then he is
wholly luminous, celestial, subtle. Conversely, his betrayals and
denials come from his dimension of darkness; he is then wholly
dark, earthly, dense, and opaque. If then it is said that Paradise
is in Heaven, it is because it is the dimension of light and of
good, the dimension of approach to the Divine: conversely, Hell
is in the Earth, because it is the dimension of Darkness and of
evil, the dimension of utmost remoteness from the Divine.
Now, Paradise includes eight degrees; Hell contains seven.
Each of these stages contain several enclosures; however, there
is one degree of Paradise that does not include a plurality of
enclosures. All the abodes of the other world together number
twenty-nine: fifteen are primary, fourteen derived from these.
In analysis of this theme, we will say that for the human being
there are fifteen degrees or planes; eight of them belong to the
dimension of light, which is called •lllfyan; seven others are in
the dimension of darkness which is called Sijjrn. One of the eight

Shaikh Mul,zammad Karim Khan Kirmii.ni, §1
degrees or planes which are in the dimension of light is the
abode of that handful of heaven in man belonging to the eighth
Heaven (Kursi, the Firmament ) ,  from which the heart of man
was created. The second is the abode of that handful of heaven
which, in man, belongs to the Heaven of Saturn, from which
man's intellective power was made. The third is the abode of
that handful of heaven in man which belongs to the Heaven of
Jupiter, from which his cognitive power was made. The fourth
is the abode of the handful of heaven belonging to the Heaven
of Mars, from which his representative faculty was made. The
fifth is the abode of the handful of heaven in man belonging to
the Heaven of the Sun, out of which his subtle consubstantial
matter was made. The sixth is that of the handful of heaven
belonging to the Heaven of Venus, from which man's imagina­
tive power was constituted. The seventh is the handful of heaven
which belongs to the Heaven of Mercury, and from it his medi­
tative power was constituted. And finally, the eighth is the
handful of heaven which belongs to the Heaven of the Moon,
and from it his spirit ( ra?&, pneuma ) was created. These are the
eight degrees which are the Abodes of Light of man; these
Abodes are his luminous and divine dimension; they form the
inner Heaven, they are Heaven in man.
With the exception of the first "handful of heaven" (the one
issuing from the eighth Heaven or Kursi) ,  the above are
matched by the seven "handfuls of earth" which in man originate
respectively in one of the seven Earths. One handful originates
in the first Earth: from it the outer appearance of the physical
body of the human being was constituted. Another one originates
in the second Earth, and out of it were created man's innate
dispositions. And so forth: the third Earth, from a handful
of which the physical temperament of man was made; the fourth
Earth, from a handful of which lust was made; the fifth Earth,
from a handful of which frenzy was created; the sixth Earth,
from a handful of which going astray was created, which con­
sists in running away from the divine Being; the seventh Earth,
from a handful of which evil in man was created. Such are the
seven categories of Earth11, which match the seven categories of

Article X
Heavens. As for the eighth Heaven, it has no equivalent among
the Earths, because there are seven Earths, no more, just as
there are seven Heavens; actually, the Heaven which is called
Kursi (Firmament ) is not an integral part of the Heavens; it is
one of the thresholds of the Mystery, of the Invisible. Just as
the Throne ( •arsh, the Empyrean ) is also one of the thresholds
of the Mystery, and is not an integral part of the celestial
Spheres.
Thus, the universe of the seven Heavens and the universe of
the seven Earths have their mutual correspondences in man.
Of course, when we talk about these "handfuls of Heaven," we
do not mean that a material section has been removed from each
Heaven. What we wish to convey is the degree of man's partici­
pation in the Soul of each of the Heavens which are in him (the
share allotted to him of this psycho-spiritual organ of each
Heaven) .  The esoteric, psycho-spiritual reality of the totality
of the Heavens is situated in the thinking Soul of the world.
Now, the human াeing is the irradiation of that Soul; his whole
being exemplifies its archetype. That is why his being likewise
possesses a "handful" of that esoteric reality of each Heaven.18
Men differ profoundly in regard to their respective spiritual
dwelling place. They are by no means all on the same low or
high level. When we say that there is in man a handful of the
psycho-spiritual substance of each Heaven, this refers only to
the Perfect Man. In the same way, if a man's being contains a
handful of each of the Earths, it refers to a man who has reached
the degree of total, perfect evil. As for the average man, one of
them may possess a handful of only one Heaven; another a hand­
ful of two or three Heavens, or four or five, or even six or seven,
if he belongs to the people of Light and Goodness. On the other
hand, if he belongs to the people of Darkness and Evil, it may
be that his being contains a handful of only one Earth, or again
it may contain handfuls from several Earths.
Thus, when there is a "handful of Heaven" in man and when
thanks to it, his moral conduct is excellent, while his life in its
various aspects actualizes faithful service of the divine, then
all his actions and works will be guthert"d together on the
2:12

Shaikh Muhammad Karim Khan Kirmiini, §1
Resurrection Day, in different forms, but all of them on the level
and degree to which this "handful of Heaven" corresponds. If,
for example, this handful belongs to the first Heaven, all his
works will be of the nature of the first Heaven. If it issues
from the second Heaven, they will be of the same nature as the
second Heaven. And so forth. For him who holds one handful
from one Heaven, his works will be all on that one level. The
work of one who has two handfuls from two Heavens will be of
two levels. And so forth, so that the work of the man whose
being is made up of all "seven handfuls" will be of seven degrees.
It goes without saying that the works that spring from a
"handful" from the second Heaven are more subtle than those
that spring from a "handful" from the first Heaven. And so forth,
the result being that those that spring from a handful of the
seventh Heaven are the subtlest of all. Do you not see that the
intellect ( noua ) is subtler in state than the soul, and how much
subtler is what you produce through your intellect than what you
produce through your soul, 17 just as what you produce through
your soul is far more subtle in state than your physical nature.
And such is the case proportionately for each "handful of
Heaven" in relation to the works that spring from it.
Thus, the "Heavens of your being" are ones I have just de­
scribed (the eight "abodes of light" of your being) .  The Para­
dise of each one of us is absolutely proper to him. It consists of
the man's works and actions, which in the other world will
appear to him in the form of houris, castles, and verdant trees.
That iB why the Paradise of each of us is in the Heaven of his
being; it is absolutely his own, for no one else has a share in it.
As God expresses it in his Book: "In that very place is prepared
that which the souls desire and which delights the eyes
( 43 : 7 1  ) . " There is a degree of Paradise that corresponds to the
respective capacity and conduct of each man. To one is given a
place in the first Heaven; to another, in the second Heaven. And
so forth: finally, to some is given a place in the seventh Heaven.
The eight thresholds of Paradise in their turn form eight de­
grees. Everyone enters by a threshold, in terms of his spiritual
rank and the work he hu11 accompli11hed. In the words of l:laǹrat

Article X
Amrr, the First ImAm: "Paradise has eight thresholds. The
Prophets and their ImAms enter by one of these thresholds. The
ImAms of Mul}.ammad's family18 enter by another threshold.
All our Shrites ( adepts ) and those who are our friends enter by
five other thresholds. Ordinary Muslims, those who have borne
witness to non deus nisi Deus and have not fostered in their
hearts one atom of hatred against us who are members of the
sacred Family,111 enter through the last threshold."
To sum up, from whatever Heaven the "clay" of each one of
us has been taken, to whatever Heaven his spirit belongs, this
is the very Heaven to which he will return. His actions and his
works are gathered together in this Heaven, and it is there that
they are made manifest to him in their form of the world beyond,
their resurrection form. All his activities are gathered around
him, they become his Paradise. That is why the works of the
just man continue to rise until they have reached their Heaven,
because they issue from this same Heaven; that is their origin
and their true reality; inversely, evil acts descend into the Earth
until they reach their own Earth, the circle of Hell which is
their place of origin and return. . . . The degrees of Paradise,
as we have said, are eight in number. However, the eighth is the
one that belongs to the Prophet and to the Twelve ImAms. It is
the "Paradise of the Permanent Abode" ( 5S: 15 ) or the "Gar­
den of Eden" ( 1 8 :  SO, et al. ) which is situated in that eighth
Heaven called the Lotus of the Boundary ( 5:3: 14 ) .  As the
eighth Heaven is the rank of the most sacred Soul of the world, 20
whose verdant offspring, as I have explained previously, is the
soul of man, and as the Soul of the world is the "place" of
knowledge, this soul has many branches. It is the Tree, and the
lotus, which is called Lotus of the Boundary. In that very place
there is the "Paradise of the Permanent Abode," the one which
belongs to the Prophets. The "roof" of this paradise is the Throne
( 'arsh ) ,  as a l;&adith says: "the roof of Paradise is the Throne
of the Merciful."
Now, that degree has no opposite, because, ontologically, the
Prophet and the ImAms have no opposites. Ontologically, oppo­
sites appear only on the level of our exi11tence, that is, of the
2!14

Shaikh MuiJammad Karim Khiin Kirmiini, §1
Shl'ites and the True Faithful. That is why the Antagonist, in
the true and ontological sense, is the adversary of the Shrites, or
adepts of the holy ImAms. But they, that is, the Prophets and the
ImAms, have neither opposite nor adversary in the true and
essential meaning of the word, because the adversaries them­
selves rank below them. Ontologically, they rank on the uni­
versal level, where all is made whole, and that which makes a
whole cannot include an opposite. To include an opposite is
characteristic of all that is partial. That is why this degree of
Paradise has nothing counterbalancing it on the side of Gehenna.
On the contrary, the other seven degrees-those relating to the
True Faithful and Muslims in general--do have opposites on
the side of Gehenna to counterbalance them, as we pointed out
a few pages back.
Certain authors place these eight degrees of Paradise in the
following order: the gardens of Paradise ( 1 8 : 107 ) ,  which are
in the eighth Heaven; the lofty gardens ( 69 : 22 ) ;  the gardens
of bliss ( 10 : 9 etc. ) ;  the gardens of Eden ( 1 8 : 25 etc. ) ,  which
have no opposite on the side of Gehenna; the gardens of the
secure place ( 44 : 5 1 ) ;  the gardens of eternity ( 50 :  SS ) ;  the
gardens of the refuge ( S2 : 1 9 )  ; the gardens of the abode of
peace ( 6 :  127 ) .  As regards the degrees or circles of Hell, the
same authors rank them thus: Gehenna ( S :  196 etc. ) ; the flam­
ing fire ( 70: 15 ) ;  the consuming fire ( 104 : 4-5 ) ;  the brazier
( 67 : 5  etc. ) ;  the devastating fire ( 74 : 26-27 ) ;  the furnace
( 79 : S9 etc. ) ;  the abyss ( 10 1 : 6 ) .  Other authors, on the con­
trary, claim that the furnace is the highest degree, while Ge­
henna is the lowest, but I know no /:ladith to support this classifi­
cation, although all of these names appear in the Book and in
the Tradition. 21
In short, just as in Perfect Man there are seven "handfuls of
heaven," issuing respectively from each of the Heavens, so in the
"perfectly evil man" there are seven "handfuls of earth," originat­
ing in each of the seven Earths, whereas for the common run of
humanity the proportion varies according to the differences in
degree.
The 11even degrees of Pnrndise hnve seven degrees of radia-

Article X
tion, that is, to each of the degrees corresponds a radiation
proper to it, in the same way as the solar radiation corresponds
to the nature of the sun. These seven radiations form seven
enclosures for the seven Paradises. But the eighth Paradise has
no enclosure, since it is universal, the one which makes whole.
Now, the nature of that which makes whole is not the same as
that which has only a partial function and a partial radiation.
Everything that issues from the radiation of the faithful in the
true sense and is "fit for Paradise" has its abode in these enclo­
sures, and not in the original Paradise itself, because radiation
is not of the same degree as the source of light . .
. . zz
2. A World in Ascent, Not in Evolution*
We are translating below two more pages of the great work of
Mul,ammad Karim Khan Kirmanl, in the first place because
they gave rise to a valuable commentary on the part of the pres­
ent head of the Shaikhl school, which is given at the end of these
selected passages; and in the second place because, in conden­
sation, these two pages recall a few essential themes.
Above all, the idea of a world whose "history" has a vertical
axis and is not seen in the horizontal perspective of an indefinite
evolution. The history of this world, "in the Gothic style," is not
that of an irreversible evolution, but of a progressive reversion.
Our concept of "historical causality" no longer applies. This
vertical orientation toward the celestial pole represented by
Hurqalya is determined by the idea of a descent, followed by a
reascent: the first is the fall of the intelligence ( Ennoia) down
to the terrestrial world, and this is the cycle of cosmo-genesis.
The second is the ascent from our world, which began with the
cycle of prophecy inaugurated by Adam. The traditional gnos­
tic thesis introduces the further idea ( echoed by Franz von
Baader, as we recalled above ) that even the Biblical history of
Adam only begins on the day after a catastrophe whose magni­
tude we can perhaps no longer conceive.
Shl'ite consciousness superimposes the perspective of Imam­
ology on that of Prophetology: the parousia of the hidden
Imam , as the definitive theophany, the advent of pure spiritual
religion. For the Shl'ite adept, to attain personal consciousness
of this parousia is to enter into Hurqalyi, and that means into
the world where the Imam becomes visible to the inner percep­
tion, where eschatology breaks through into the present. Hence
'" Extract from the same work, Vol . II, Pt . :1, 1'1'· 274-75 .

Shaikh Mu/.lammad Karim Khan Kirmiini, §2
the theme of the last pogr.11 translated below: Harqalya and the
Shi'ite faith.
Know that when God hud created Intelligence (Ennoia ) on
the first of the Days, he said to it: "Now go down." And Intelli­
gence went down until it reached our world. The final stage of
its descent coincided with the time of Adam. Then the call
resounded in the world through the mouth of l;laǹrat Adam and
through the mouths of all those who summon men to God:
"Now turn around and go up again." At the time of the Descent,
those who spoke for God were cosmic expressions in the lan­
guage of cosmo-genesis. At the time of the Ascent they were
inspired expressions in the language of prophecy. The world
undertakes its ascent, its gradual return, thanks to the prophetic
language of the Messengers. If it should happen that past times
are revealed to you, you will see them under your feet, vertically,
not beside you, horizontally.
The adventure of our world is the adventure of someone who
has to be brought up from the bottom of a well. Moment by
moment he reaches a certain level in the well; from level to level
he comes to the upper level. 23 At each moment the level he has
passed is under his feet. Whoever knows how to look with the
organ of inner sight will thus see past times beneath his feet
more and more opaque, dense, and dark; whereas, day after day,
he continues to ascend time, drawing nearer to the primordial
Will and becoming more luminous, more subtle.
Let us imagine a being coming down from Heaven and enter­
ing the Sphere of elemental air; descending further, he enters
the Sphere of atmospheric vapor; descending still further, he will
enter in succession the Sphere of the clouds, then the water of
the ocean, and then the bowels of the Earth. Should one then
say to him: "Now, climb up again," up he goes, emerging from
the darkness of the Earth, entering the Sphere of water, passing
through its density, and then traversing the Spheres of the
clouds and the vapor one after another. Emerging from the last
of these Spheres, he enters into the air in the pure state. His eyes
gaze on everything around him; he breathes deeply; he is freed

Article X
from the restrictions that stifled him; he gives himself up to
relaxation in immense tranquility; at last he breathes freely.
And so, this is exactly the spiritual history of our world. For
this world had descended into the midst of the Earth, when it
was told, at the time of Adam: "Now, go up again." This is the
climb it is engaged in making; it is not yet freed from the heav­
iness and roughness, the darkness and mist. It has not yet come
out into the pure air. For these places we are in are the abode
of darkness. And it is in darkness that one must seek a religion,
behave in a certain way, profess some belief. But as soon as
men have emerged from these mists and entered into pure air,
they gaze at the Sun, the face of the Friend, the ImAm; then they
contemplate its lights uncovered and unveiled, without needing
to dissemble. For the laws are no longer laws; religion is no
longer religion; institutions are no longer institutions.24
What is needed, therefore, is for us ourselves to reach the
spiritual level where the Friend, the ImAm, becomes visible.
The ImAm cannot go there before us. If the ImAm were to
arrive before we were able to recognize him, it would be of no
benefit to us. The following verse expresses it: ''The Friend
is nearer to me than myself. But what is stranger still is that I
am far from him." Thus, if the ImAm came before we ourselves
were there, that is, before there was a change in our way of
being, we would not even see him; we would reap no advantage
from it; it would even be the contrary of wisdom. On the other
hand, when our spiritual capacity has changed and we have
been transformed, it means that we have come up higher. For,
as we have said, we must get out of the well; we must rise in
order to reach that place where it is possible to see the ImAm.
And the name of that place, in the language of the theosophists
(ahl-i Mkmat ) is Harqalya.
When our world, the world which we are, rises until it
reaches the level of Harqalya, it sees in that very place the
splendor of its ImAm. The Truth is revealed. Darkness is dissi­
pated. Conditions are changed. Do not think that this spiritual
reality is far away. It is drawing near, for the signs of achieve­
ment and crisis have already become nppnrent. From the world

Shaikh Muhammad Karim Khan Kirmani, §2
of Harqalya a breeze is blowing, and the perfume of that world
has reached the senses of the Soul of the True Faithful. If you
are capable of feeling, you yourself will perceive, in the pages
of this book and its contents, a perfume emanating from the
flowers of the world of Harqalyll. But be careful! There are a
great many people whose nature is weak and deformed, who
are inflamed by these perfumes and then become dizzy. On the
other hand, a large number of those who by nature fully merit
the name of man take delight in these fragrant scents which
become the food of their soul. So the evidence is there, God
willing! Harqalya is near.

XI
SHAIKH ABU'L-QASIM KHAN IBRAHIM!
(SARKAR AGHA.) , FIFTH SUCCESSOR
OF SHAIKH AHMAD AHSA'I
(b. 13 14/1896 )
.
The Celestial Earth of Hurqalya and the Shtite Faith"'
We should at this point give a brief outline of the question of
Ho.rqalyA, of the description of that universe and its situation
among the planes of being. We would like to bring to an end
all the difficulties of those of our brothers who, having been
attracted to theosophical gnosis, have perhaps not paid sufficient
attention to this point. . . .
In order to summarize the nature of this universe, here is
what the explicit assertions of our traditions, together with the
explanations furnished by our great Shaikhs, have made it pos­
sible for me to understand and to set forth in my turn very
briefly. Roughly, the word Harqalya refers to the mundus
archetypus, the world of Images ( 'a/am al-mithal ) ,  the world
of autonomous Figures and Forms ( 'a/am al-uwar) .  Although,
strictly speaking, the Heavens of this universe are what we des­
ignate as Harqalya, whereas its Earth is referred to by the
names Jabalqa and Jabara, philosophers sometimes refer to this
universe as a whole, with its different planes and degrees as
Harqalya.
It is also called the "eighth climate," referring to the fact that
the philosophers and learned men of former times divided the
Earth into seven climates. The term "eighth climate" is self­
explanatory, since the universe of HurqalyA is above all these
climates, and is not included within their visible boundaries.
Of course, the division of the earth into seven climates taught by
,. Extract from Tanzfh al-awliy4, Kirman, 1 367/ 1 947, 58th Question,
pp. 702-26. The work is entirely in Persian.'

Shaikh Ahu'I-Qa.'lim Khan lbriihimi
the ancient sages can be traced to a number of other sources.
This division was known to the ancient prophets, and its source
is authentic, since we find the terminology used frequently in the
traditions of our holy ImAms. The mention of the seven climates
recurs repeatedly in the sayings of the First ImAm, l:laǹrat Amlr.
Likewise, the Sixth ImAm, l:laҩrat Ja•far ŀAdiq, explicitly states
in a l,aadith that the world is divided into seven climates. Per­
sonally, I would say it is absolutely correct to have called Hor­
qalyA the eighth climate, since it is beyond our world; but it
must not be forgotten that it is also invisibly in our world itself.
Briefly, it is evident, not only from the Book of God, but also
from the reported sayings of the holy ImAms, that the divine
creation is by no means limited to the world in which we are
traveling and of which we perceive the visible appearance. There
are many worlds. The first verse of the Book declares: "Glory
be to God, the Lord of the Worlds" ( 1 :  1 ) . And elsewhere:
"Blessed be he who caused the Qur'An to descend upon his
servant, so that he might be a prophet for the Worlds " ( 25 : 1 ) .
Therefore there is really no doubt that there is a multitude of
universes.
Another verse states: "To God belong creation and the crea­
tive Imperative" ( 7 :  52 ) .  So we must distinguish between two
things: a world of creation which is the creatural universe, and
a world of the Imperative which is the creative Universe. If one
meditates on these two universes in detail, each reveals a multi­
tude of other universes, but our purpose here can be no more
than to give a general outline concerning them. The creative
universe, that of the Imperative, is the primordial divine Will.
The meaning of this thesis is made explicit in the traditions
which the holy ImAms have left us, but again we cannot go into
further detail here. By his "Will and his Imperative ( KN =
Estol ) ,  the "Lord of the Worlds" has existentialized the totality
of the universes and the totality of beings. Hence true reality, the
essences of all things, are comprised in the divine Will, but still
in a state of generality and possibility, not of concrete deter­
mination and individuntion. TheMe e11sences of things remain on
the lower plum oF the "wnl"'cl uf the Imperative," which consti-

Article XI
tutes its Earth; this plane can nevertheless rightly be referred
to as the "world of the Imperative." The ultimate term of the
Imperative is designated as a materia prima, which is pure pas­
sivity. Sometimes it is called "virgin Earth" and sometimes the
"sempiternal world." Sometimes it is called "sea of the $ad,"
sometimes the "dwelling place of the Nun," or again, the "world
of the heart." There are other names for it, each referring to a
corresponding aspect, but there is no time to mention all of
them here; those who are interested will find the explanation of
each in its place.
So this sempiternal world, the world of essences and prime
origin of beings is on this level; it is iri continuity with the
whole "world of the Imperative" and itself is part of the worlds
of Mystery, the unrevealed universes. After this world there is
the creatural world, taken as a whole. The creatural world also
comprises several planes and degrees. Each degree, within its
own limits, forms an autonomous universe, and to all these
planes and degrees, taken as a whole, we give the name "crea­
tural universe," "world of creation."
The first of these universes is the world of the Intelligence
( Ennoia ) . It is repeatedly mentioned in the traditions, for in­
stance, in the following: "The first thing that God created was
the Intelligence." There are many variants of this tradition,
which we refrain from quoting here for brevity's sake.• The
world of the Intelligence is the world of "consubstantial matters,"
which means that the inalienable consubstantial matter of every
being issues from this world of Intelligence. 8 This, furthermore,
is the definition we find in the traditions of our lmA.ms. There it is
said that the Intelligence encloses, comprehends all things, and
is the cause of all existing things. This all-embracing compre­
hension and this causativity define everything having to do with
the "consubstantial matter" of each being. Indeed, all existing
creatural things are so many forms and attributes of the Intelli­
gence. The latter possesses perfect understanding of the whole
of its own forms; one can say that it is their consubstantial mat­
ter, because it embraces and encloses them. Similarly, clay
contains and embraces the totality of vuHeN, bowls, and other

Shaikh Abu'l-Qcisim Khan lbrcihimi
objects manufactured from clay. This is what the J.aadith states
when it says that the Lord created Intelligence and saw to it
that it should include as many heads as are included in the total­
ity of creatures. "Whatever creature Thou lookest upon, that
creature is a head among heads, that is, a form among forms."
Thus we understand that the Intelligence includes a multi­
tude of forms, and that creatures are so many forms of the
Intelligence. Considered from this point of view, all of God's
creatures possess Intelligence, knowledge, and consciousness.
All of them fulfill a doxological and liturgical function. "Every­
thing in the Heavens and on the Earth glorifies God" ( 62 : 1
and 64 : 1 ) .  Now the principle of this hymnology and this divine
service is in the Intelligence4 for, as it is said, "Intelligence is
that through which the divine service is carried out" or again,
"Intelligence is the most faithful of the most faithful of beings
with respect to God." That is why, if a being performs this act
of glorification, it is because this Intelligence in him is fulfilling
its divine service.
So, in short, all creatures are forms of the Intelligence; they
are so many "heads" created by God for this Intelligence. That
is why all these forms owe their stability and consistency to
Intelligence, and are inseparable from it. Indeed, "matter" does
not exist without "form," nor form without matter; they come to
be simultaneously; neither one can precede or follow the other;
their existence is synchronical. Yet each of them has its respec­
tive rank and position, which it is important to remember. If we
say that "matter" ranks before or is "above," while "form" ranks
after or is "below," it is because form in this case is taken to
mean the "boundaries" and "demarcations" of matter. From this
point of view, we can say that matter is first, while form is
second, since matter must be in order for these delimitations to
take place in it. It is therefore advisable to be careful in regard
to this "above" and "below."
Indeed, it can be said that the "dwelling place" of forms is
"below," that is, on the lower plane of the dwelling place of the
Intelligence. And this place itt what, in philosophical terminol­
ogy, we call the world of the Soul•, or the world of immaterial

Article XI
substances.5 It is also called the world of Forms and Figures, the
world of the Aeon, and it is adjacent to the world of the Intelli­
gence. The traditional terminology of the holy Imams gives the
name Malakut to this dwelling place, which is the world of the
Soul, whereas the world of the Intelligence is called Jabarut,
and the world of the creative Imperative is called Liihut (Deity) .
This world is also called the world of the sacrosanct Soul,
as it is the world from which the souls of human beings have
been extracted. The soul is "sacrosanct" because it remains
inviolate and immune from the impurities and vicissitudes of the
world in which we are now. It is also called the world of seminal
reasons8 and the world of the shades. One explanation of this
world of seminal reasons in which the souls of humans were
created has already been given in this book. That is the very
place to which the Prophet was sent in order to make his call
to the souls heard. It was in that very place that the question
and the answer were exchanged with each and every soul, and
where from each and every one was received the commitment of
faith and fidelity to the initiatic pact. It was in that dwelling
place that whoever wished became a believer, and whoever
wished became an infidel/ Finally, this is the world we call the
world of resurrection and reassembly, because this is the place
to which human beings go back at the time of their Return, each
one returning to the place from which he was created, no higher.
Thus this "dwelling place" has many names. Each philosopher
uses a name corresponding to his point of view. Testimonies
concerning these different planes or degrees abound in our tra­
ditions also, but this is not the place to discuss them. After all,
those who practice theosophy know what we mean; as for the
others, they would understand neither a general account nor a
detailed expose; if anything, a detailed expose at this point
would only make the problem more difficult.
So, this world which is the world of Forms is called the world
of the sacrosanct Soul. You must often have met with the ex­
pression universal Soul, Soul of the world, in the works of the
philosophers. Their meaning corresponds to what we ourselves
understand as the world of the Intelligtnt t! und RH the world of

Shaikh Abrt'I-Qiisim Khan lbriihimi
the Soul taken together, for they are considering "matter" and
"form" simultaneously. In saying soul they are referring to the
rank of the form; when saying universal they are referring to
conceptual reality and to the universality of the Intelligence.
This merits our close attention, because these developments will
not be explained so simply elsewhere. Although I am not a
"philosopher" by profession, at least I am the son of a philos­
opher, and the sons of philosophers perhaps understand the
terminology of their fathers better than others.
In any case, everything that has just been said was more in
the nature of a parenthesis, for the rank or dwelling place of
God's prophets is above the rank or dwelling place of human
souls. This does not mean that they belong to the world of pure
Intelligence, for the number of the nativities in that world is
limited to the Fourteen most sacred souls.8 No, the dwelling
place of the prophets is the abode called the world of the Spirit
and the Spirit of the Malakilt. This world of the Spirit is an
intermediary ( a  barzakh ) between the world of the Intelligence
and the world of the Soul, because it possesses neither the sub­
stantiality of the Intelligence nor the plasticity and individuality
of the soul. A barzakh is an intermediary between two worlds.
It would be difficult, indeed superfluous, to go deeply into the
idea at this point. Our purpose is limited to explaining that there
is an intermediary, a barzakh, between the world of the Intelli­
gence and the world of the Soul, because such is the divinely
ordained structure and because it is a philosophical constant
that God's universe contains no hiatus. The worlds are con­
nected with one another; they form a continuous whole. When­
ever one is considering two universes, there must be a barzakh
between them. A verse in the Qur•tn states: "He has separated
the two confluent seas. Between them there is a barzakh; the
one does not overflow into the other" ( 55 :  19-20) .
What can be said in broad outline about the world of the Soul
is that it is the world of those Forms which are the primary
Forms of the world of the Intelligence. These are sacrosanct
Forms, that is, protected from the impurities and blemishes of
our world, amd they exist in an autonomous state. From this point

Article XI
of view, therefore, it is fitting to speak of the world of sacrosanct
Souls, for they are wholly exempt from the accidents and opacity
of our world, and have no connection with the opaque and acci­
dental matters and forms of our world. This, in relation to this
world of ours, is called the "higher world." l:la:j:rat Amrr, the
First Imam, in describing this world of the Soul, speaks of
"Forms stripped of all matter, free from everything other than
what is potential, and purely virtual." He quotes a variant of the
same /:ladith : "Forms transcending all matter." And these two
lessons contain an equally authentic meaning.
These statements signify that the Forms in question are in­
deed Forms stripped of all earthly, accidental, and corruptible
matter, or else are Forms transcending such matter. In accord­
ance with this l_ladith, as with the explicit meaning of the other
traditions received from the holy ImAms, it is quite evident that
one must take "matter" to mean corruptible and accidental mat­
ter, in the state in which we find it in our earthly world. This by
no means implies that these Souls are "Forms without matter,"
since it is out of the question for a Form to exist without matter.
Matter and Form are the two factors constituting the substan­
tiality of each being and each thing; they cannot be dissociated
from one another. If one of them were missing, then the thing
itself would cease to exist, would become pure nonbeing. The
expression "matter" as used in the above /:ladith refers to acci­
dental matters, subject to the conditions of time and of becoming.
And the purpose of this same /:ladith is to affirm that the sacro­
sanct Souls in no wise owe their origin to these accidental,
earthly, and corruptible matters, and that they have autonomous
existence.
So the theologian philosopher Mulla eadra ( eadruddrn
ShirAzi ) is quite mistaken in thinking that human souls can
from the beginning be associated with these corporeal matters,
subject to the conditions of time and becoming. His system pre­
supposes a series of transformations: the mineral itself becomes
vegetable, which in tum passes to the animal state; the animal
finally becomes a human being. This system is contrary to the
teaching of the Book of God and the traditiona of our lmlm11.

Shaikh Abu'I-Qa.tim Khan /brahimi
The same could be said of those literal and superficial theolo­
gians who are incapable of 11eeing in the word Man anything
other than an expression designating material bodies composed
of physical elements. They claim that it is these same accidental
and corruptible, dense and opaque bodies that "return" to the
other world, on the pretext that the Return has to be understood
as a "bodily resurrection."
They make a serious error, simply by forgetting that the
reality of what makes a body, its corporeity, is not limited to
that of the accidental and corruptible bodies of our earthly
world. What God's Book and the prophets indicate is the exist­
ence of primordial or archetypal human bodies. They originate
in their own world, the world of the Soul; as for their matter,
it comes from the world of the Intelligence. l:laˎrat Amlr, the
First ImAm, in the l)adith which tells of his interview with
Kumayl on the condition of human souls, declares that "the
matter of these souls consists of the energies they receive from
the Intelligence and which are substantialized in them." He
declares further in the same l)adith that the human soul by no
means owes its origin to visible physical bodies. It is neither the
"sap" nor the subtle element of the body of flesh. It can be
compared neither to the perfume given out by a flower, nor to
the essence extracted from a rose. Far from it! These souls are
Forms subsisting independently of all corruptible physical mat­
ter, and existing in their own world in an autonomous state.
As for the manner in which souls make their entrance into
this world, it should be compared to the manner in which the
image of the human person makes its entrance, its appearance,
in the mirror which reflects it, or else with the light of the sun
that falls from on high on this mirror or on the surface of calm
water. Neither the matter nor the form of the image you see in
the mirror originates in the mineral substance of the mirror.
No, this image possesses, separately and in itself, its own matter
and its own form, which are in no way part of the mirror and
in no way derive from its mineral substance, for they neither
blend with it nor alter it. This Image has autonomous existence;
it was created st!parately. If the mirror is there, the image is

Article XI
projected on it and mirrored in it, looks at itself in it. If the
mirror is not there, the Image nonetheless subsists in itself
and for itself; it subsists in its own world, with its own matter
and its own form. Doubtless it will be said that it is "a part of
this world." But to say that it is dead "to" and "for" this world
in no way means that it is dead "to" and "for" its own world.
Quite the contrary; there it is indeed, living and close to the
divine, which guarantees its subsistence. The phenomenon of
death took place in this world, not in the world beyond.
True, the individuality post mortem has no longer any form
( mĎhar ) in which to manifest in our world unless God wishes
it to have an epiphanic form a second time in this world, to live
and be visible here a second time. Such a case is possible, and
such an event has occurred. For instance, there are the accounts
of those raised from the dead by Jesus, or the resurrection of the
prophet •uzayr (Esdras ) mentioned in the Qur'An ( 9 : 30 ) ,  the
traditions concerning the resurrection of Shem, son of Noah,
and still others attributed to the intercession of the holy ImAms.
Briefly, these are the themes which should be expanded for a
thorough discussion of the question we have just opened. How­
ever, our contribution must be limited to stressing certain as­
pects of the cosmology that includes the totality of these uni­
verses, by way of an introduction that will enable us to under­
stand the whereabouts of the world of HnrqalyA.
To sum up: 1 )  The first of the universes is the world of the
creative Imperative, which is the sempiternal world and the
world of pure essences. 2 ) Then there is the world of the Intelli­
gence, which is the Abode of "consubstantial matters" granted
respectively to the being of every being. 3 )  Next the world of
the Spirit, which is the intermediary, the barzakh, between the
world of the Intelligence and the world of the Soul. 4 )  This
same world of the Soul, which is the world of the Forms of
beings. 5 )  And finally, after the world of the Soul, our world,
which is the temporal, sensory, and visible world. The last is
the world in which we are at present, you and I ,  and it is the
plane on which all the universes finally converge. The eternul
24A

Shaikh Abu'I-Qii.,im Khiin lbriihimi
higher Forms, those of the world of the Soul, have at last reached
their end on this plane; they have been hidden there in the
earthly dust of this world, although virtually they have already
departed from it. For this world is the tomb of the higher uni­
verses. All the beings who inhabit these other universes have
been buried here in the earth. In accordance with the order of
the Lord of the worlds, they must shake this dust from their
heads and emerge, freed from their tomb; it behooves each of
them to achieve his Exodus, to regain his Abode, to return home.
Our purpose in this book is only to comment on the state of
this other world to the extent needed to characterize the world
subject to time. This world of ours is the place in which the
Souls and eternal higher Forms become dependent on corporeal,
accidental, and perishable matters, and are henceforth connected
with them and bound to them. However, these temporal matters
of our world, in their totality, are nonetheless an accident with
respect to these eternal Forms. Their relation and connection
with these Forms are not lasting but temporary. At any moment
they may become dissociated and separate from each other. The
forms return to their own eternal world, while the corporeal
matters remain in their world. That is why, although the Soul
is the first thing created by God, every Soul which comes into
this world must finally die. That is, be dissociated and separated
from the accidental matters that are foreign to it. The Lord of
the worlds declares it: "Every soul will taste death" ( 3: 182 ) ,
"thou shalt die and they shall die" ( 29: 3 1  ) . Every form, during
a definite period, remains "on the surface" of this accidental
matter. This duration is what is called time, the limit of this
Form. Nights and days, hours and minutes, are simply means
of determining the mea8ure of time; but these measurements
are not time itself. In itself, time is the limit of the persistence
of the eternal Form "on the surface" of the accidental matter
of this world. 9
If this question has been fully understood, I can now attempt
to explain the way in which these eternal Forms belonging to
the world of the Soul come "onto the surface" of the accidental
matters of the periHhahlr. world. They "come" there in the

Article XI
same way that the light of the sun "comes" onto this Earth
or "into" mirrors, or in the same way that a man's reflection,
his silhouette, and his image "enter," come "into" mirrors.
Actually, these eternal Forms in themselves never at any time
"come down" from their own world, any more than a man
himself enters the mirror in which his image appears, any
more than the astral mass of the sun descends onto the Earth
from the sky. That is why the eternal human soul itself, which
was created in the world of seminal reasons, and with which,
in its own world, the Lord of the worlds exchanged question
and answer-when the human being, having been given the
power of speech, uttered his profession of Faith to the Lord of
the Worlds and the soul was thus promoted to being a "speak­
ing soul"-this soul, I say, does not itself come "in person" and
materially into this world of accidental and temporal matters.
Its silhouette, its image, its projected shadow is what "comes
into this world," as the comparisons already given have sug­
gested to you. In every case the divine arrangement is constant.
The visible, the outer, the exoteric, is the faҨade of the invisible,
the inner, the esoteric, and in all divine creation there is no
deviation from this rule.10
The more attentive you are to the implications of the theme,
the better you will understand our intention. Whether we speak
in terms of reflection, silhouette, image, or shadow-and we
take all these technical terms either from the Book of God or
from the traditions of our ImAms-or whether we speak about
light, we always take these terms as they refer to the operation
of the human soul. Each essence, each substance, has a mode of
operation which is proper to it; it also goes without saying that
this essence and substance call for a certain perfection and
qualification. Because, in fact, everything is created by a divine
Will; it is that Will. Now the divine Will calls for perfection;
so all such wills which created things are essentially call for
perfection.
Now the perfection of each thing consists in surpassing itself,
in overflowing its own limits, or "transgressing" itself, in order
to spread, to penetrate into other places, jU11t 111 the fiery glow

Shaikh Abu'l-Qiisim Khiin lbrahimi
of a lamp is the superabundance of its being and of its perfec­
tion. Its perfection is its light; its light is the action brought
about by its burning, for burning is the generator of light.
Therefore each thing has its particular manner of being perfect
and of operating. Finally, the weakness and the intensity of the
perfect quality of each thing depend on its greater or lesser
proximity to the divine Being, which is the principle and center
of all perfections. The closer it is, the greater its perfection and
the more powerful its capacity to penetrate, to expand, and to
blend with everything else. The further it is from this center
and from the supreme archetypes, the lesser its perfection, the
weaker its operation becomes, and correspondingly its capacity
to penetrate, to spread, to mingle, and to produce any action
whatsoever.
Philosophers will have no difficulty in understanding our
thought. But perhaps, for the sake of beginners, it will be useful
if we illustrate it by a further comparison. For example, let us
take the invisible Fire; this is an eternal substance, one of the
higher Forms. At the very moment when it reaches the surface
of temporal matter and when, having become its partner, this
smoking mass begins to glow, at that moment the characteristic
way of being of Fire is manifested. For immediately it "trans­
gresses" the limits of this accidental, smoking mass; it begins to
spread and to extend as far as it has the force to act and to
spread. And whatsoever fire it may be, whatsoever the matter
on which it feeds-vegetable oil, naphtha, brushwood-what­
soever the matter through which its brilliancy may appear, be it
metal or astral matter such as the moon and the stars, or incan­
descent solar matter, in each case it gives out light in proportion
to the rank and degree of these "matters." But it does not itself
remain without moving in the place where it has "caught fire";
it extends beyond it, "breaks out" of it, and communicates to
others its perfection and its activity. Such is the way of being
peculiar to Fire, which is one of the eternal Forms.
However, some of these eternal Forms do not possess perfec­
tion and operative power to such a degree. For example, the
color block, or white, or red , or 11ome other color. For all these

Article XI
colors are eternal Forms; they "descend" from the secret ''Treas­
uries" of the higher universes; these colors are not temporal
matter; they are Forms which manifest, are epiphanized, on the
surface of temporal matter. However, after they have thus mani­
fested on the surface of matter, they remain fixed and motionless
at the same point; they do not spread, they do not penetrate, nor
do they have any further effect, because in themselves they are
weak and deficic:nt. A given color proper to a given matter can­
not escape from the boundaries of that matter, nor "break out"
of it, unless, some perfecting agent having intervened to com­
plete this Form, it then appears to be endowed with expansive
force. For example, it may happen that light falls on some color
or another-for instance, on glass which is red in color-and
heightens the red of this glass; if the glass is moved, it takes
the color with it. This is possible, of course, but it does not
mean that the color red has spread and been conveyed from one
point to another. It remains fixed on the surface of that same
red matter.
The examples just brought may to some extent clarify the
theme with which we are at present concerned. In the midst of
the eternal Forms belonging to the Malakut, the human soul
ranks among the most magnificent, sublime, and perfect of these
Forms; it is the attestation to the divine Being attesting for itself
to the other Forms, which are imperfect and lower in rank.
As l:laǹrat Amir, the First ImAm, has said, the human Form is
God's most magnificent surety for His creatures. It bears witness
to the divine Being because it is the fullness of everything pro­
ceeding from Him, and it is the perfector of the other Forms; it
possesses the maximum of operated activity and of operating
activity, as well as perfection; and it is the seat of multiple
energies.
In short, our present theme is that the Souls and eternal
FormS-each within their own limitS-are invested with a spe­
cific perfection and operative power. Thus, the divine, total, and
eternal Soul is invested with absolute and universal operative
power, since all the operations effected by the individual eternal
souls are an effect of the operation of tlw divine Soul. And thi11

Shaikh Alm'UJiiaim Khan lbrahimi
absolute operation is whnt iH fllllr.d in theosophical tenninology,
a world, a world situ ated 11t oncr. 11bove our world of temporal
and accidental matters, and I M௛ne11th the world of the sacrosanct
Soul. Or to be more exact, it is 11 barz.akh, that is, an interval,
or intennediary, between these two universes, a between-two­
ness, a median reality between two realities: an intenvorld. It is
not an autonomous world-since it is not substantial, but sub­
sists thanks to the sacrosanct Soul-just as the activity of the
person of Zayd does not subsist as a thing in itself, but exists
thanks to the person of Zayd, or as the light of the lamp does not
subsist independently, but thanks to the lamp itself.
Therefore it is a world which cannot be considered as being
a part of our material universe, being clearly independent of the
accidental matters of our universe and having a right of origin
and a mode of subsistence peculiar to it, which do not derive
from this material universe. The most that can be said is that
with respect to it the matters of our world fulfill the function of
a vehicle, of apparitional fonn, and of places in which to mani­
fest. It has its own pennanent existence above all these material
realities. As in the case of the reflection manifested in a mirror:
the image is other than the mirror, is distinct from the matter
and fonn of the mirror. If the mirror is there, the image appears
in it, if the mirror is not there, your silhouette and your image
continue nonetheless to subsist through your person, without
having anything to do with the mirror. It is exactly the same
in the case of the world of the barzakh, the interworld. This
world has its own independent existence; if the temporal and
accidental matters of our world are there, the reflection of its
image appears in them; if they are not there it continues to exist
in its own "place" and to subsist, thanks to the Soul. It simply
means that it no longer has a fonn in which it can appear in the
earthly material world. To recapitulate, there is the world of the
barzakh, a world which exists and is pennanent; it is invisibly,
suprasensibly within our world, and corresponds to it insofar as
all the universes taken as a whole symbolize with one another.
In the barzakh, in this interworld, there are in a perfectly
concrete state, Heavens and E11rths, Elements, continents, seas,

Article XI
the natural kingdoms-humans, animals, plants, minerals-all
corresponding to those we see in our earthly world. We have to
be guided by the fact that if we see beings and things in our
world it is exactly because everything we see here below "came
down" from this other universe. God says so in his Book: "Noth­
ing is which does not have its Treasury with Us and we send
them down only in strict measure ( 1 5 :  2 1  ) . " The divine Treas­
uries are exacԔly those higher universes of which we are
speaking.
The first of these Treasuries is the world of the divine Im­
perative, the world where to be is eternally in the imperative:
"Bel and it is ( 2 :  1 1 1  ) • " Every being proceeds from this ex­
istence-giving Imperative. The second Treasury is the world of
the Intelligence, which is the world of the materia consubstan­
tialis, for the materia prima of beings and things was created
first, and afterwards their form.11 The third Treasury is the
world of the Soul, the place in which the Forms of beings and
things are "situated." It has already been explained how the
enlightenment of the absolute Soul, the total Soul, rises over
the world and how the temporal world comes into existence
thanks to the dawning of this light. This aurora consurgens
(ishraq ) and operant power of the Soul, considered apart and
separate from the soul, is precisely what constitutes the world
of the barzakh, the interworld. Sometimes we even refer to this
also as the world of the Soul, on account of its perfect likeness
in regard to the world of the Aevum. Lastly we talk of it as the
"Soul in projection," meaning that it is the projected picture of
the world of the Soul and the activity of that world. Indeed, it
reproduces it so perfectly that the very name of that world has
been given to it and this world itself is called the "Soul in pro­
jection." The shadow, image, and apparition of all that the
divine Being has created in the eternal Soul, exists in the world
of the barzakh, the only difference being that which stems from
the fact that the barzakh lacks independence and autonomy. The
barzakh, the interworld, subsists only thanks to the Soul of the
world, the eternal, celestial Soul.
So we understand how it is that the hanalel or interworld

Shaikh Ahrt'I-Qii.,im Khiin lbriihimi
undoubtedly exists: all thingt exist in it synchronically; beyond
and above our earthly world in the invisible, suprasensible part
of our world, it constitutes a "world-beyond." Whenever Forms
from this world-beyond ( ,uwar-i barzakhi ) --eternal Forms in
the constitutive reality of their essence-happen to manifest on
the surface of the accidental matter of our world, you and I are
able to see them. But such of those eternal Forms as do not
appear on the surface of this matter remain invisible and hidden
from your eyes and from mine. It is possible, of course, that
apart from you and me, someone whose eyes are open and who
has better sight than ourselves may see the Forms of this other
world. In fact, there is no need for all the Forms of the other
world to be manifested continuously and appear at every moment
on the surface of accidental, corporeal matters. What is more,
it can also happen that their accidental mirror may be broken;
the reality of the persons and images nonetheless continues to
subsist in their own matter and in their other-worldly form, their
reality not being connected with the reality of temporal and
temporary mirrors. In the same way, if your photograph is torn
to pieces, the picture on the paper vanishes, but as long as you
live your image is everywhere where you are, and does not
depend on this paper in particular. None of the forms of this
other world is effaced from the record of the being, so long as
the eternal duration, the Aevum, of the world of the barzakh
continues. You and I, perhaps, do not possess the "eye of the
world-beyond" ( chtUhm-i barzakhi) which would make it pos­
sible to see them; but this is by no means either a sign or a proof
of their nonexistence.
For example, l:laˎrat Amlr, the First ImAm, happened to stop
at WAdi al-SalAm, and converse for a while with certain persons.
"With whom were you talking?" he was asked. "With a group
of Spirits from among the faithful adepts," he answered. More­
over, we see how often the following question is asked in our
traditional narratives ( akhbdr) : "Where are the spirits of the
faithful believers post mortem?" And the answer is always the
same: "They are in bodies which are in the likeness of their
material hodies." They do exist; they have not disintegrated;

Article XI
we simply do not see them. This is how the genii and the angels
exist; while belonging to the other universe they pass through
our world. You and I do not see them; but what is written in the
Qur'an duly testifies to their existence. By right of origin they
are inhabitants of that world of the barzakh, the other world
which we call the mundus archetypus, the world of the arche­
typal Images. They pass through our world, and we do not see
them with our ঻dily eyes, but the Prophet and the Imam, who
saw them, are sure and reliable informants, and inform us of
their existence. The Angel Gabriel "came down" and appeared
to all the prophets, one after the other. The prophet of Islam
reports that he appeared to him at one time in the form of the
beautiful adolescent Da}:lya al-Kalbi, at another time in a differ­
ent form. The same can be said in regard to the existence of
the genii, who are reported to have shown themselves on many
occasions to some persons or to have made their voice heard by
them. We refer those who are interested in this subject to the
book Madinat al-ma•ajiz.
In the same way, by virtue of the divine declarations and the
declarations of the Prophet and of truthful informants, we affirm
that in this other universe, in the world of archetypal Images,
there exist animals, plants, Elements, oceans, continents, cities,
even Paradise and Hell. The "two gardens covered with ver­
dure," to which the Qur'anic text alludes ( 55: 64 ) are situated
precisely in this mundus archetypus, not yet in the world of the
futurum resurrectionis. In that very same world of the archetypal
Images is the paradise where Adam was created, and from which
God sent him forth to fulfill a mission in this world below. It is
still not the primordial Paradise of the future Resurrection; from
that Paradise no one can be "cast out," and the faithful believers
will be there in aeternum.
It would require many pages to go into detail, and this is not
the place for it. We shall restrict ourselves to discussing some
of the degrees or levels of this world of the barzakh or world
of the archetypal Images. Shaikh A}:lmad A}:lsa'I and the author of
the Spiritual Directory12 sometimes speak about the world of Hor­
qalya, in order to remind men of the twcessity to rise up spirit-

Shaikh Abrt'UJiiRim Khan lbrahimi
ually; they tell them of their rwed to raise themselves up to this
world, that there alone cnn they contemplate the light of their
Imam, only there understand how their Imam acts in the high­
est degree and manifests himself; in short, it is there that they
discover high Knowledge. When they speak in this manner of
the world of Hurqalya what our Shaikhs have in view is, indeed,
this same universe about which we are speaking here, and con­
cerning which so many of our traditional accounts, for example
the čadith of Mufaˏˏal and others, teach us the manifestations
and modalities, by showing us how human beings will be
brought together there with the genii and Angels, see them and
speak with them.
As for the word Hurqalya, whatever its etymology, it desig­
nates that other world, some of whose characteristics we have
described in the course of the present book. Let us add, for
greater clarity, that the Earth of Hurqalya is situated on the
lower level of the mundus archetypus,13 on the boundary be­
tween our terrestrial world and the world of material realities.
We still need to mention certain of the Qur'anic verses and tra­
ditional accounts about the modalities peculiar to this universe,
for as we know, our Shaikhs make no pronouncements on their
own authority.
In the Sura of the Cave it is said: ''They will question you
about Alexander . . . .  He walked until he reached the setting
Sun; and he saw it setting in muddy water, near which he found
a people who had settled there. We said to him: '0 Alexander!
will you punish them or treat them with kindness?'-and he
walked until he reached the rising Sun; and he saw it rise on a
people to whom we had given no veil to protect themselves from
it . . . .  And he walked until he reached a place between the two
embankments, before which he found a people who hardly un­
derstood a word. They said to him: '0 Alexander! Gog and
Magog are spreading corruption over the Earth.' "
Here we must refer you to many traditional accounts com­
menting on these and other verses; traditions which, by allusion,
describe these universes, the peoples who inhabit them, the liv­
ing religions existing there, how these peoples live, what divine
2௜7

Article XI
services they practice, what knowledge is theirs, and what are
their beliefs, what the degree of their faith and devotion to the
Very-Pure ImAms, who are the guarantors of God for them as for
all the universes as a whole;14 finally they describe how most
of these people are companions and assistants of the hidden
ImAm who will work with their help to bring about the final
consummation of the terrestrial world. u One would need also to
speak about thԕir food and drink, describe the customs and
ceremonial courtesies they observe among themselves, the ven­
eration they display for their Sages; we could also quote some
descriptions of their duties, and their buildings, houses, and
castles.18
Moreover, we have traditions that inform us about the topog­
raphy of that universe, its continents, oceans, and mountains,
the permanent buildings, the tents which are pitched there, and
the peoples who dwell in it. We owe traditions of this kind to
SalmAn PArsl, Abo Dharr, JAbir, and several other companions
of l;lԖrat Amlr, the First ImAm; they have already inspired long
commentaries. From them we also learn that so far as they
themselves are concerned, these people do not recognize any
divine testimony other than that of the Very-Pure ImAms, and
reject with loathing this or that deceptive pretender. Indeed, if
we desired to extract all this information from the Qur'Anic
tafsir and collected traditions and bring it together in some
corpus, we would have to write an immense volume. But God
be praised! This is a theme which is not denied by the learned
among the Muslimun; we are rejecting neither the traditions
nor the verses of the Book. We are trying to understand their
meaning. It is true that this traditional information contains
obscurities and difficulties, the key to which is preciously
guarded by those who are learned in this knowledge. It is not
necessary for us to know all the details, but it is important that
we give our assent, both inner and outer, to what they have said
about it. We will quote two or three of these l)adith.
We read in the Kitab al-mubin, according to the Bil}.ilr al­
anwar,17 this l)adith which comes to us from the First ImAm,
'All ibn Abr-TAlib, through the intermediary of J;la:j:rat Abo
25R

Shaikh Abrt'I-Qiisim Khiin lbriihimi
'Abd AllAh (Ja'far :;iAdiq, the Sixth ImAm ) ,  from the august
father of the latter ( Mul,ammad BAqir, the Fifth ImAm) ,  and
from 'Ali ibn al-.ijusayn ( the Fourth ImAm ) : "The Lord pos­
sesses a city beyond the West which is called Jabalqii. Seventy
thousand peoples dwell in this city of Jabalqii. Not one among
them but symbolizes with some community here below. Not for
one instant have they weakened in their pact with God. What­
ever they do or say, they never fail to execrate the first usurpers,
to dissociate themselves from them, and to affirm their devotion
and passionate love for the members of the Family ( ahl-i bayt )
of God's Messenger."
From the Second ImAm, .ijasan ibn 'All, the following saying
is reported: "God possesses two cities, one to the West, the other
to the East, at whose summit there rises an iron fortress. En­
circling both of these cities there is a surrounding wall contain­
ing one million golden gates. Seven million languages are spoken
there, each different from the other. I know all of these lan­
guages, just as I know everything within these two cities and
everything contained in the space between them. They know no
other guarantor of God than my brother :.ijusayn and myself."18
Lastly, I would like to mention the l;ladith which my own
master18 relates in his short work answering MirzA :;iAdiq KhAn
PirniyA, in which several of the characteristics of this universe
and its cities are described. This l;ladith is somewhat lengthy,
but I wish to quote it here precisely because of the detailed
descriptions of these universes, which may contain some useful
teaching for our brothers.
The following is told about Muhammad ibn Muslim.20 He
said: "I was questioning Abu 'Abd AllAh ( namely, the Sixth
ImAm, Ja'far :;iAdiq ) about the heritage of higher knowledge.
To what does it amount? Is it the understanding as a whole of
everything that belongs to this knowledge, or else is it the
exegesis explaining in detail everything that we have been talk­
ing about?" He said to me: "In truth, God possesses two cities,
one in the East, the other in the West. They are inhabited by
people who know not lbll1 (Satan ) ;  they do not even know that
he hn11 been created . At every moment We11 meet them, and

Article XI
then they ask us for what they need. For example, they question
us about how to pray; then we initiate them. They ask us about
the one amongst us who will raise us from the dead (the Qa•im,
the hidden Imnm) and they inquire when his epiphany will
take place. Their devotion is ardent and their diligence pas­
sionate. The wall surrounding their cities is pierced by gates;
between each gate there is a distance of one hundred parasangs
( farsakh ) • They celebrate magnificent liturgies and devotions.
Their invocation-and their spiritual effort are so intense, that if
you saw them, you would have but a poor opinion of your own
behavior. Some of them pray for a whole month without raising
their heads from their prostrate position. Their nourishment is
hymnology; their clothing is verdant youth; their faces have the
brilliance of the morning light. When they see one of Us, they
greet him with a kiss; they gather around him and cut out the
earth which retains his footprint in order to keep it as a kind of
relic. When they intone the Prayer, the hum of their psalmody
is heard above the roar of the most violent wind. Among them
there is a whole group who have not laid down their arms since
they began to await the advent 'of the one among Us who will be
the Resurrector (the Qa•im ) , and they call on God to reveal
Him to them; one of them is a thousand years old.
"When you see them, you will find in them only gentleness,
modesty, and the search for what brings them near to God.
Whenever We are not near them, they fear that we are offended
with them. They give all their attentive care in the moments
when we come near them; they never show the slightest fatigue
or lukewarmness. They read the Book of God as we have taught
them to read it, and indeed certain of our teachings, if they were
revealed to the people hereabouts ( i.e., non..Shrites, exotericists,
literalists ) ,  would be rejected and condemned as so many blas­
phemies.21 They question us about all the difficulties which the
Qurnn holds for them, when they do not understand. Then, as
soon as We have made it clear, their hearts expand because of
what they have learned from Us. They ask God to grant Us
eternal life, and that there may never be a time when they would
no longer find Us. They know that God huH clone them an im-

Shaikh Abu'I-Qiisim Khan lbrahimi
mense favor through the teaching into which We have initiated
them.
"It is they who are destined to arise in the company of the
ImAm, on the day of the Parousia, and go at the head of the
knights in armor. They ask God to place them among those
who give battle for his Religion in Truth. Among them there
are mature men and young boys. When one of the latter meets
his elder, he sits down modestly before him and awaits a sign
before getting up. They have a Path, which they know better
than anyone, leading to the place corresponding to the ImAm's
intent. When the ImAm gives them an order they work on it
without respite, until the Imam himself orders them to do some­
thing else. If they were to invade the space between the East and
the West, the creatures therein would be destroyed in an hour.
They are invulnerable; fire does not touch them. They have
swords which are forged from another iron than the material
iron of the world. 23 If one of them were to strike one of our
mountains with his sword, he would pierce it and shatter it into
pieces. 24 It is with companions armed with blades such as these
that the Imam confronts India and Daylam, the Kurds and the
Byzantines, the Berbers and the Persians, and everything en­
closed between JAbalqA and JAban;A, the two cities lying be­
tween the Far East and the Far West. But they attack the people
of another religion only to call them to God, to true Islam, to the
taw?Jid, to acknowledgment of the prophetic message of Mu­
I,ammad and the initiatic function of the members of his House.
Those who answer the call are safe and sound, and are given one
from among them as their prince. Those who reject the call are
left for dead, so that between JAbalqA and JAban;A, and beneath
the whole mountain of QAf, there is no one left who is not a true
and pure believer."
There are so many ?Jadiths of this kind that we must forgo
offering them here in detail. Our purpose, in quoting the pre­
ceding ones, was to illustrate the thesis that above this world,
which is that of the senses, and below the world of the sacrosanct
Soul universes exist which, considered as a whole, are referred to
by the nome world of the barzakh nnd world of the Return,
26 1

Article XI
in the traditional tenninology of our ImAms. On the lower plane
of this totality of universes, the level adjacent to our material
universe, there is the universe which is called the mundus arche­
typus, or world of archetypal Images. In the theosophical tenni­
nology of the Ancients, this is the very same universe they called
H arqalya, namely, the other world. That world is the exact
Image of this world-without any difference-as shown by the
explicit descriptiQns given in our traditions and the proofs which
the theosophists, especially our own Shaikhs, have established,
which proofs are supported by Qur'Anic verses and our tradi­
tions. Indeed, they have shown that those universes resemble
and correspond to this universe of ours, which is the world of
sensory phenomena. However, there is a difference, in that our
sensory universe is the universe of ephemeral accidentals; in it
the deterioration of fonns and matters increases from day to day,
from hour to hour; or rather, every minute some change for the
worse takes place.
On the other hand, no deterioration takes place in those higher
and eternal universes, where matters and fonns possess an essen­
tial reality and where nothing is accidental. Since matter and
fonn possess an essential reality there, they remain forever
united; they cannot be dissolved or disassociated. There is neither
past time nor future time there, nor is there morning or evening
after the manner of our world. By that very fact death is un­
known there. Every being, every thing, continues to exist there
in its eternal fonn. Paradise and the people of Paradise are
eternal, alive forever, just as the people of Hell endure forever
in their Gehenna. All continue to exist in the identity of their
fonn; in this eternal universe a faithful adept can never become
an unbeliever, nor can an unbeliever be transfonned into a
faithful adept; in this sense they are no longer subject to the
obligations of the Law, to the bondage of works, to the acquiring
of merits. Thus, everything there is different from our world,
where black can become white, white can become green, and
so on.
Nevertheless, in the interworlds that precede the higher uni­
verses, that is, in the worlds of the barz.akh ,  the worlds of Har-

Shaikh Abu'I-Qiisim Khan lbrahimi
qalyil, the situation is intermediate. It is quite unlike the situa­
tion in our world of sensory phenomena, where forms and mat­
ters deteriorate and vanish rapidly and at every instant. Nor is
the situation stable and permanent, like that of the higher uni­
verses, which are lasting and perdurable. It is a between-the­
two, precisely an interworld. This is doubtless a difficult thing
to perceive and understand for one who does not possess the
organ of perception and understanding. The unlimited duration
of these universes of the barzakh contains gradations which are
likewise unlimited, and which are not like the measurements of
this world of ours. In our traditions, the duration of these worlds
is often interpreted in terms of millennia. We learn from the tra­
ditions that in these worlds the faithful adept sees his posterity
increase to a thousand children; according to some the number
is even greater. In fact, these symbolic expressions are intended
to suggest a kind of magnitude which is not our ordinary meas­
urement. The days and the years are different from our earthly
accidental days and years, which follow one another and replace
one another. We lack the means of comparison. 11 All of that
will be made manifest in the days of the parousia, that is, in the
days of the Epiphany of the ImAm, when the Earth dwellers
will arise and be transported to the heights where they will
become Hl1rqalylvls, that is, inhabitants of the Earth of Hor­
qalyl. Then, the knowledge of this other world and the nature
of its people will be revealed. The ImAm will reign over them
for 50,000 years.11 Many things of this kind concerning the
characteristics of this other world can be read in numerous tra­
ditions that describe the circumstances of the ImAm's Epiphany.
We cannot go into detail here.
How we are to understand this "being transported to the
heights," our metamorphosis into Horqalylvls, or inhabitants
of H11rqalyA, is precisely what Shaikh Mul;lammad Karim KhAn
Kirmlnl alludes to in his "spiritual directory."•' It has nothing
whatsoever to do with intentionally abandoning this world, of
changing at present the status and conditions of the organic
body composed of terrestrial elements. No, we reach it in this
vt·ry world through which we are at present plodding, in just

Article XI
the same way as some of the Prophet's Companions reached it.
We are all familiar with the l,ladith in which Zayd ibn aaritha
relates that one day in the mosque he declared in the presence
of the Prophet: "Now I see Paradise and its inhabitants, Ge­
henna and its people; my ears hear their groans." And the
Prophet confirms his sincerity with these words: "Remain in
your certainty."
For the sake of.brevity, I have not quoted this l,ladith verbatim
here, but we have a number of traditions that can guide us on
this theme. The following, for example: His Holiness the Imam
aasan 'Askari (the Eleventh lmAm) 28 was held prisoner in the
paupers' caravanserai, which was the special dwelling place of
the destitute and the beggars. One of the Companions came to
him to pay his respects. Sadly and indignantly he said to the
Imam: "You, the guarantor of God on this Earth, held prisoner
in the caravanserai of the beggars!" But His Holiness the ImAm,
replied with a gesture: "Look!" At that very instant the faithful
devotee saw gardens, flower beds and streams of fresh water all
around him. In rapt amazement he heard the Holy ImAm say
to him:. "Wherever We are, it is like that. No, we are not in the
beggars' caravanserai." Again, in the treatise from which I
quoted just now,29 my own master, after repeating this same
J.:tadith, declares: "As Shaikh Al:tmad Al:tsA'I has so clearly indi­
cated, the Imam while visible and manifesting in this world,
was in Hurqalyii. What the l,ladith gives us to understand is not
that the ImAm did not possess an earthly body, but that he had
the spiritual strength to make this world invisible, and to make
himself present to the higher world." And this was what he
expressed when he said: "We are not in the caravanserai of the
beggars."
As for the Very-Pure ImAms and His Holiness the ImAm of
our time30-may God hasten the joy of his coming-whose rank
surpasses every other conceivable rank, they remain eternally
in the higher universes, both during the life they spent on earth
and also in their existence after death. What is more, they are
the divine testimony, the guarantors of God, for the peoples of
these higher universes, who recognize no other guarantor of

Shaikh Abu'I-Qasim Khan lbriihimi
God than them. What this teaches us is that it is the business
of the rest of the community, its earthly members, to attain this
point of view, this spiritual level. This is exactly what it means
to "rise," to be transported to the heights. It has nothing to do
with "flying away" and arriving somewhere in Heaven. Nor
does it mean that the physical exitus of death is necessary to take
you out of this earthly elemental world we perceive with our
senses and help you reach this other world. No, what is meant
is to die in spirit, to die a voluntary death. It means to get there
while remaining in this world. Of course, there is no objection
to interpreting this inner experience and the knowledge of it
as a death. But this death is in no way incompatible with the
continuation of earthly life, and many traditions allude to this
very thing. The following for example: "Know how to die before
you are dead; know how to settle your accounts before you are
called upon to give an account." The significance of this death
is to absent oneself from this terrestrial world, by becoming
present to the other world, futurum resurrectionis. But this is in
no way incompatible with continuing life on earth.
This was precisely the permanent inner state of the Holy
ImAms; and such also is the state experienced by their perfect
Friends, the "perfect Shrites";31 each in terms of his spiritual
rank, either as a lasting and permanent experience, or as a state
that makes itself felt in exceptional moments. The fact is that
their manner of being is to be available to the Imam; the ImAm
arouses in them whatever inner state he may desire. Their heart
remains at his disposal. And the approach to the day of the
parousia, to the Epiphany of the Imam, consists in exactly that.
The approach implies that this availability continues to grow,
until it becomes that of the majority of humans. For this will
mean that the eyes of humans are opening at last to the world of
HO.rqalyA, and are seeing there the light and royal splendor of
their ImAm existing in that very place.
For that is exactly what the Epiphany of the ImAm means.
Is there a single Shrite who would agree that the Imam of this
time-may God hasten the joy of his coming-is at present
depriv়d of hi11 universal initiatic priesthood, of the royal cha-

Article XI
risma that influences all the atoms of the visible world? that he
is deprived of the sacred prerogative of the divine caliphate,
even though others have taken it over? Far from it. We Shrites,
all of us, are well aware that today the ImAm is already the
ImAm, with all the prerogatives of the ImAmate. You and I do
not see this royal splendor, this sovereign dignity, this super­
natural power with our physical eyes. But the Epiphany of the
ImAm takes placԗ for us at the very instant when our eyes open
to the world of HO.rqalyA, and when we look upon the epiphany
of the royal majesty of the ImAm in the whole of the universes
together.
When the venerated Shaikh Al;lmad A}).sn, and all our
Shaikhs with him, repeat that already now the ImAm is visible
to them and contemplated by them in Ho.rqalyA, the hidden
meaning of such a statement is that for those who belong to the
world of HO.rqalyA the ImAm is recognized as being already
invested with the ImAmate, with sovereign dignity and royal
splendor. Yes, they recognize him and pledge him their alle­
giance. But the fact is that in this world, he cannot be perceived
by the senses of people like ourselves, and we do not see him.
This does not mean that the ImAm is not here, in our world.
Of course he is here. His presence in this world is like the pres­
ence of Joseph among his brothers. Joseph was there, beside
them, and in spite of that they did not recognize him. And until
Joseph made himself known, his brothers did not recognize him,
so our traditions tell us. The same applies in this case. So long
as the ImAm does not make himself known, we do not recognize
him. We remain ignorant and unconscious. But he can only
make himself known at the very moment when we are capable
of recognizing him, at the very moment when we have attained
the capacity for this spiritual consciousness with its prerequisites,
that is, when we have opened the eye which is capable of know­
ing the ImAm ( chashm-i lmam-shinds, lit. the "ImAm-gnostic
eye") and awakened the senses belonging to men of Ho.rqalyll
( lit. "our organs of Ho.rqalyAvr perception" ) .  Then indeed, at
that very instant, we shall see that the whole visible realm is
the realm of the ImAmate and of the prophetic message, ami

Shaikh Abu'I-Qa.'lim Khan lbrahimi
that sovereign dignity, royal charisma, and epiphany belong to
the ImAm.
And it is by living this state experimentally that we see and
understand how it is that the sun of the most sacred existence
of the ImAm rises in the West,11 in other words, where and
when the· present world has finished setting. One must never
forget the true meaning, which is the spiritual meaning. It
must be understood that our world in itself has no "Orient" or
"Occident," any more than the sun "rises" or "sets"; its revolu­
tion in its orbit is our own revolution around ourselves. Every
time we turn away from this world and go forward spiritually
toward the other world, the earthly world sinks toward its set­
ting, while the light of the other world rises in the East. What
should be understood here by "Orient" and "Occident," is the
Orient and Occident, unaffected by the cardinal points of sensory
space, and not the metaphorical Orient and Occident of our
geography. Thus, a sun "which rises in the West" heralds the
hour of the "setting," the definitive decline of this world. And
the light which rises is the most sacred existence of the ImAm.
One should pay close attention to the spiritual significance of
such statements. I am no specialist in the )lermeneutics of sym­
bols, but I understand and interpret according to their spiritual
meaning the words of God, the Prophet, and the Holy ImAms,
whose eminence is such that it does not allow anything to be
asserted or intended unless it compels recognition of the spiritual
sense.
In conclusion, HorqalyA is the mundus archetypus, the world
of archetypal Images, of autonomous Forms. If you can turn
your eyes away from the elementary, temporary, perpetually
changing realities, and have eyes for nothing but their very
Form, their pure Figure, their archetypal Image, which subsists
with and by its own matter and its own form, after the manner
of the image of Zayd in the mirror, then, at that very instant
and as far as you are able, you will have contemplated the world
of HorqalyA. You will be raised above this world of sensory
phenomena; you will have perceived and contemplated the eter­
nnl lmnl(r., the pure Form and light of your ImAm, which is like

Article XI
a primordial Image covering over the entire horizon of this
world and everything included between JAbalqA and JAbarųA.
Then you will understand how it is that he alone governs and
decides, and how everything and everybody can do no more
than carry out his order. You will see all activities and all opera­
tions as they are governed by this Image, and as dependent
always and forever on the ImAm. If the archer happens to shoot
an arrow and kill_s his unfortunate mount, you will understand
that it is the ImAm who shot the arrow and who sacrificed the
mount.
Of course, for anyone who has not been initiated to gnosis,
it will be extremely difficult to perceive these hidden meanings.
I can say no more about it here by way of elucidation, since my
purpose was only to open up a brief survey of the world
of HnrqalyA.
26A

NOTES

PART ONE
SPIRITUAL BODY AND CELESTIAL EARTH
CHAPTER I
THE MAZDEAN IMAGO TERRAE
1. "I was walking in the open air on a beautiful spring morning.
The wheat was growing green, the birds were singing, the
dew was sparkling, the smoke rising; a transfiguring light lay
over everything; this was only a tiny fragment of Earth .
• .
and yet the idea seemed to me not only so beautiful, but also so
true and so obvious that she was an Angel-an Angel so sump­
tuous, so fresh, so like a flower and at the same time so firm and
so composed, who was moving through the sky .
•
.
that I asked
myself how it was possible that men should have blinded them­
selves to the point of seeing the Earth as nothing but a dried-up
mass and to the point where they go looking for Angels above
them, or somewhere in the emptiness of the Sky, and find them
nowhere. Yet here is a concept which will be considered extrava­
gant. The Earth is a sphere, and if there is more to it than that,
then the place to look is in the natural history archives." U ber
die Seelenfrage, pp. 170-71. ( For full bibliographical data
on references, see the List of Works Cited. )
2. SirtJza, 28th day.
S. Concerning the word spenta, see H. W. Bailey, "Iranian Studies
III," particularly p. 292. J. Hertel ( Die awestischen Herr­
schafts-und Siegesfeuer) ,  in accordance with his general method
of interpreting the Avesta, regards it as the qualification of a
being in which an effusion or effluence of celestial Light is
immanent. It should be made clear that this Light is an Energy
and that the spenta being is precisely one which activates and
communicates this Energy; see H. S. Nyberg, Die Religionen
des alten Iran, German tr. H .. H. Schaeder, p. 442. See also
Nyberg, Hilfsbuch des Pehlevi, II, Glossary, p. 5, s.v. afziJnikih
(af%iJn: superabundance, exuberant force ) ,  where the word is
related to the technical lexicon of Ibn 'Arabi, which is common
to our emanatist theosophers, whether Avicennan or• Suhra­
wardian.
4. GartJtmdn, the hiKhr11t drl(ree nF Paradise .
IS .  Vn11ht X I X ,  I 6 - I H1 d. Va•ht, X I I I ,  83-84..
g7 1

Notes/Chapter I
6. It is said that Ohrmazd created the Amahraspands ( cf. Bun­
dahishn, I, in H. S. Nyberg, "Questions de cosmogonie et de
cosmologie mazdeennes," Journal asiatique, CCXIV : 2 [1929],
2 1 8-19, henceforth referred to as "Questions," I ) ,  but he is
also the seventh ( or the first ) among them. It is said that
Ohrmazd divided among them the task of creation ( ibid., p.
2!1 1 ) , but it is also said that all seven together produced the
Creation by a liturgical act, that is, by celebrating the "celestial
Liturgy" ( ibid., p. 2!17 ) ,  and that each of the Seven Powers
of the Heptad of Light produced its own Creation; see Shiiyast
lii-shiiyast, XV, 4 (Pahlavi Texts, tr. E. W. West, I, !17!1 ) ,  in
which Ohrmazd himself declares to his prophet: "Each of us
has produced his own Creation." The creation of the Arch­
angels is also regarded as an evocation or emanation producing
their being "like one torch being lighted from another torch."
The first is evoked directly by Ohrmazd; each of the other six
is revealed, comes to be, through the intermediary of the one
that precedes it ( iiyatkiir-i-ihamiispik, ed. G. Messina, book III,
lines S-7 ) .  Ohrmazd can test them by asking them: "Who has
created us?" And Arta Vahishta, the fairest among them, there­
upon replies: "It is thou" (see J. Darmesteter, Le Zend-Avesta,
II, S 1 1 ) ;  it is true that the meaning of the test is above all a
primordial choice decided against the Antagonist. And another
passage describes the council of the Archangels discussing
among themselves in order to choose which of them might be
their lord ( iiyatkar-i-ihiimiispik, III, 8-9 ) .
7. Discussed above, n. 6; see, among other references, Shayast
lii-shiiyast, XV, 4; the case occurs so frequently that a list of
references cannot be given here.
8. See Nyberg, Religionen, pp. 207, 226, where Nyberg speaks
of a "henotheism"; I prefer the term "kathenotheism," as used
by Betty Heimann, Indian and Western Philosophy, a Study in
Contrasts, p. !15.
9. See De somniis, I, 157, and E. Zeller, Die Philosophie der
Griechen, III, pt. 2, p. !179, n. 4; cf. H. A. Wolfson, Philo, I,
!177 ff.
10. See Louis H. Gray, The Foundations of the Iranian Religions,
pp. 1 8 ff. ( following the great Bundahishn, XXVI, 4; Dar­
mesteter, Zend-A vesta, II, !106 ) .  Concerning the traces of a
real iconography, see J. Bidez and F. Cumont, Les Mages
hellenises, II, 284, n. S; L. I. Ringbom, Graltempel und Pam­
dies, p. 416.
1 1 . Bundahishn, in Nyberg, "Questions," I, 220-2 1 .
12. MǚnOkl-Ya-ziahn; see n .  6 above.

Notes/pages 8-9
13. A sentence such as this is worth pondering: "From the ter­
restrial light (get'ik rt'Jshnih ) ,  Ohrmazd created truthfulness
( rtistgt'Jbishnih )"  ("Questions," I, 2 1 6-17 ) .  This sentence
alone would suffice to show that one should not translate Maz­
dean concepts, as is too often done, by equivalents that only
evoke the idea of an abstract moralism; for example, when one
is content to translate asha, arta, by "justice." Hertel used to
translate it "das Licht-des-Heils." The sentence recalled at the
beginning of this note can lead to this same meaning by a path
independent of the theories of Hertel. The ashavan are not mere­
ly the "just"; cf. Nyberg, Religionen, pp. 133, 368.
14. Cf. Shtiyast la-shtiyast, the whole of ch. XV.
15. The Angel-Gods of Proclus are the hermeneuts of the hidden
deity; their theurgic role as demiurges is one aspect of this
essential mediation; there are celestial Angels of creation, gen­
eration, and salvation. Their multitude is grouped in choirs
that escort the Archangel or the God who leads them and whose
Energy they diffuse in those parts of the cosmos which are
dependent on his hierurgy and providence. See F. Cumont, "Les
Anges du paganisme," pp. 1 7 1  ff. When they show themselves
to men, "their admirable beauty and the brilliance of their light
bring them nearer to the divine splendor." But to say that "man
always organizes Heaven in the image of Earth" would be a
quite superficial judgment (ibid., p. 164 ) .  For what if it were
the other way around? Could it not be that man, at least in his
sacred rituals, sought to organize the Earth by projecting an
Imago which is precisely the image of his Paradise? ( Cf. with
what Mircea Eliade [The Myth of the Eternal Return, p. 9 1 ]
has admirably characterized as "nostalgia for paradise." ) Need­
less to say, a phenomenology of the Imago goes beyond the
questions arising within the limits of historicism.
16. She is on the same angelological plane as Daena; she is the
Imago Terrae as it can be perceived by the soul, the soul
exactly conforming to Daenit, the daughter of Spenta Armaiti.
See further § 4, below.
17. Concerning the etymology of the word Fravarti ( or Fravashi ) ,
see H. W. Bailey, Zoroastrian Problems in the Ninth-Century
Books, pp. 107-10.
18. Cf. the Yasht dedicated to them: XIII, 1-2, 9, 12-13, 22,
28-29. Resembling the Valkyries who, lances in hand, make
long journeys on hor11eback, they keep watch unceasingly from
the high rompart11 of l leuvrn; 11re Bundahishn, VI, 3, and Zat­
Spram, V, 2 ( PtΔhlm•l 'f'r:Jet11 , I ,  !l 5 ,  H i7 ) .
1 !> . cr. Ymmu X X I I I ,  2 1  X X V I ,  !l 1  Ya11ht XIII, 80, 82, 85;
·n௚

Notes/Chapter I
MenDke-Xrat, XLIX, 23 ("Questions," I, 204-205 ) ;  regarding
this cosmology in the "Gothic style" emphasizing the archetypal
dimension, see our study "Cyclical Time in Mazdaism and
Ismailism," p. 168. One quite fails to catch the concept in
simply comparing the Fravartis to the "souls of the ancestors";
in fact, such a comparison does not take into account either the
Fravartis of the Celestials, of the Y azatas, or those human
Fravartis of the Creation of Light whose incarnation is yet to
come and who are, nevertheless, invoked in the liturgies.
20. A concept already admitted in the earliest Christian writings;
cf. the passage from the "Testament of the Lord," quoted in
J. H. Moulton, "It Is His Angel," p. 5 1 8 : "Cujusvis enim
animae simulacrum seu typus coram Deo ante constitutionem
mundi stat." Compare the great Bundahishn, III: of the five
energies created for the redemption of man (body, soul, spirit,
individuality, and guardian spirit) , the guardian spirit ( fra­
vahr) is the one who stands in the presence of Ohrmazd the
Lord ( Nyberg, "Questions," I, 232-33 ) .
2 1 .  Ibid., p. 237.
22. Cf. Yasht XI, 2 1-22, honoring the "body" (kehrpa) of each of
the archangelic Powers.
23. Cf. Nyberg, Hilfsbuch, Glossary, pp. 25 1-52, s.v. zdm and
zamik.
24. Cf. C. G. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, pars. 393 ff.
25. See our study "Le 'Livre du Glorieux' de Jibir ibn l:layyin,"
pp. 76 ff.
26. Cf. our "Prolegomenes" I and II to the (Opera metaphysica et
mystica, I, LI ff.; II, 34, n. 75 ) ;  cf. below, Ch. n, § §  3, 4,
and the texts translated in Part Two.
27. Ibid. and our book: En Islam izanien, II.
28. See the table recapitulating all the projected translations, pre­
pared by Bailey, Zoroastrian Problems, pp. 75-77.
29. Concerning the conjunction of these two aspects in one and the
same "person-archetype," see "Cyclical Time," pp. 140 ff.
30. This Light of Glory, which is preeminently the attribute of the
Amahraspands and lzads, is above all manifested among ter­
restrial beings in the form of the royal Xvarnah (Kavaem Xvar­
nah, which is also Farr-i Yazdiin, the divine Light of Glory
whose image remains so living for the Ishriqlyun theosophers,
the disciples of Suhrawardl ) .  The three forms of the X varnah,
that of priests, laborers, and warriors-three forms correspond­
ing to the three sacral forms of fire-are all combined in thr.
royal Xvarnah (see Darmesteter, Zmd-Ave11ta, II, 6 1 5  fT.,
introduction to Yasht XIX ) .

Notes/pages 10-19
: n .  This identification of the Xvarnah with the soul, the conse­
quences of which are considerable, has been stressed by H. H.
Schaeder in the footnotes to his translation of a passage of the
great Bundahishn in respect to anthropogony; see R. Reitzen­
stein and H. H. Schaeder, Studien zum antiken Synkretismus
aus Iran und Griechenland, p. 230, n. 1.
32. Cf. our translation of Pand Nii.mak i Zartusht, pp. 144-45
(unhappily, published five years after we submitted it, without
our having the opportunity to revise either the manuscript or
the proofs. While we were grateful to our Zoroastrian friends
for publishing it, we have to apologize for the many typograph­
ical errors, inevitable but catastrophic ) .
:J:J. Cf. Bundahishn, XI (Pahlavi Texts, I ,  32 ft'. ) ;  F. Spiegel,
Avesta, die heiligen Schriften der Parsen, III, 53; F. Justi,
Der Bundehesh, p. 2 14.
34. Cf. Vendidid XIX, 129 ft'.; Vispered XI, 1; Ringbom, Gral­
tempel, pp. 279 ff.
35. Cf. Datistan-i-Dinlk, XXXVI, :J-6 (Pahlavi Texts, II, 78-79 ) .
Darmesteter (Zend-Avesta, II, 547, n. 265 ) also interprets the
names of the six heroes: to the west, he "who teaches the way
to the light"; to the east, he "who teaches the way to the sun";
to the south, he "who magnifies the Glory" and "who spreads
the Glory"; to the north, he "who prays his wish" and "who has
the wished-for benefit."
36. Thanks to a mythical animal now preserved in a secret place
until the Frashkart, when he must be sacrificed and his body
used to make the potion of immortality.
37. We mention in this connection the presence in Mazdaism of an
ecumenical feeling of the "invisible Church." Since Zarathustra,
with his revelation, was sent only to Xvaniratha, all those in the
other keshvars who are believers cannot be so as direct adepts
of Zarathustra; they are so in an intermediate way, that is to
say, in the same way as the first adherents to the pure primitive
faith ( PfJryfJtkšshii.n ) ;  having been created by Ohrmazd, they
have preserved this purity, living according to the Mazdean
religion without knowing it and forming an "invisible commu­
nity" together with the Zoroastrian believers (cf. Spiegel,
Avesta, III, 239, n. 1 ) .  This is why the Afrin Gii.hanbii.r ( in
Darmesteter, Zend-A vesta, III, 180 )  mentions "the good beings
of the seven keshvars, those who believe in the good and pure
Daena of the PfJryfJtkšshii.n"; their Fravartis are also mentioned
( Yasht XIII, 17 ) .
:J R .  St'e Ylqot, Mu'jam al-buld4n, I ,  25; cf. the use of this method

Notes/Chapter I
of representation in the case of Blruni, Kitab al-tafhim, ed.
Humiiyl, p. 196.
!39. The method suggests many connections with other projections
of mental Images. The very name "Xvaniratha" evokes the
image of a wheel, a central wheel surrounded by six others, the
whole world having, in its turn, the form of a wheel. The six
boundaries between the keshva.·s can be imagined as starting
from Xvaniratha ( like spokes from the hub ) .  The entire earth
surrounding the central keshvar is thus divided into six sections
corresponding to six arcs of a circle on the periphery of the
world ( cf. Fig. 1 ) . In its turn, through a new division, the
terrestrial circle can be placed in correspondence with the celes­
tial circle, which is divided into twelve regions, the six keshvars
being thus placed in direct relation with the signs of the Zodiac.
This same method of figuration of the medium mundi is . also
found in the West ( in a ninth-century manuscript ) .  These
figures from Iranian or Christian sources are analogous to the
one known in Buddhism as bhabacakra ( the wheel of life and
death ) .  For all of this, see Ringbom, Graltempel, pp. 279-85,
and H. Leisegang, La Gnose, J. Gouillard, p. 22; pl. II, p. 16.
Of course, the complex of intentions differs from one to the
other, but to the extent that the Buddhist diagram ( in which
the "six fields between the spokes of the wheel represent the
six forms of existence of all beings" ) was also used as a plan
of terrestrial divisions, the method of representing the Earth
with seven keshvars can be considered as a construction analo­
gous to a mandala; for the instrument of meditation to be perfect
it is sufficient, in addition, to inscribe in it the figures and names
of the six Saoshyants-Bodhisattvas mentioned above (cf. the
arrangement of the seven archangels in certain Russian icons ) .
40. Louis Massignon, in a very valuable treatise, was the first to
have brought out some suggestive homologies ( cartography, the
art of gardening, methods of writing ) ;  see "Comment ramener
a une base commune l'etude textuelle de deux cultures: l'arabe
et Ia greco-latine," pp. 1!37 ff.
4 1 .  Enclosed gardens, sometimes immense, the memory of which
has remained alive in the Iranian imagination ( for a description
of them in some classical texts, see Ringbom, Graltempel, p.
272, n. 22; cf. pp. 5!3 ff. ) .  The paradise-garden symbolizes the
Earth, just as much as it makes the Earth a symbol. Thus, the
Iranian garden, at least as it was and as it remains in its arche­
type, consists of those quincunxes of trees massed around the
central body of water, like the keshvars nrnund the original (:l·n­
tral keshvar. Their height decreuses Jli'OI(rt'NIIivrly from thr.

Notctl/pagr.s 19-23
horizon, which they outline; gathering together and themselves
collecting toward the center, they likewise concentrate recol­
lected thought in the mirror of contemplation, which then is
silently exalted in the mental vision of the Image, which has
finally been rediscovered ( see Massignon, p. 1S7 ) .
42. This was not possible in the diagram of Ptolemy mentioned
above; see Btrunt, Tafhim, p. 1 9 1 .
4S. Cf. E. Benveniste, "L'Eriin-vez et l'origine Iegendaire des
Iraniens," pp. 265-74.
44. Nyberg, Religionen, pp. S96-40S.
45. See very especially Mircea Eliade, Patterns in Comparative
religion, pp. S80-82, and Images and Symbols, pp. 27-56
( the chapter entitled "Symbolism of the Center" ) .
46. We might mention in passing that the historians, surprised by
these "Events in Eriln-Vej," have created many problems for
themselves. Ohrmazd, the "supreme God" of the Aryans, is cer­
tainly a "priest" ( Yasht I, 12 ) ,  but how does he come to be the
priest of a goddess and to address prayers to her? What is
more, we are reminded (see below, § 4 )  that another "feminine
Angel" of the Avesta, Ashi Vanuhi, is similarly honored by
Ohrmazd. It is these traces, together with a new interpretation
of a Gatha or Psalm employed as a wedding liturgy ( Y asna
LIII ) ,  which have justifiably led Nyberg to develop the hy­
pothesis that the primitive Zoroastrian community of the
Gathds probably lived under a matriarchal system ( Religionen,
pp. 252 ff., 27 1-72 ) .  However, as we have recalled, the
canonical Avesta forms a whole, and could have been recited
from beginning to end without the pious being struck by the
contradictions that might emerge from an analysis of histori­
cal "stratifications." To speak of "syncretism" is to oversim­
plify the question somewhat; we suggested earlier ( n. 8, above )
the expression "kathenotheism" to describe the intimate process
of a lived devotion that is insensitive to these "contradictions."
Furthermore, we should never lose sight of the eschatological
role of Ardvl Sura (parallel to the primordial role of Spenta
Armaiti, whose helper she is ) in preserving the Xvarnah of
Zarathustra in the waters of a mystical lake, with a view to
the conception of the final Savior who will be brought into the
world by the Virgin-Mother Vispa-Taurvairi ( see § 4, below ) .
All these Figures give substance to the idea of a feminine Divin­
ity whose presence is precisely in accord with the characteristic
features of Mazdean religious feeling. We also wish to point
out that Joseph Campbell, editor of the posthumous works of
J ll'lnrlch Zimmer, recently indicated how one could discover,

Notes/Chapter I
in the Zoroastrian dualist refonn, the resurgence in Iran of
religious factors that belong to the pre-Aryan matriarchal
world (Philosophies of India, pp. 185-86, n. 6 ) .
47. See Vendidid II, 2 1  ff.; cf. Datistiin-i-dinak, XXXVII, 126 ff.
According to other traditions (MenDke-Xrat, XXVII, 27-28;
LXII, 15-19 )  this Var is a place built in Eran-Vej, but under
the Earth, hence secreting its own light, without any need of
sun, moon, or stars. There it was that from among all creatures
the most beautiful and exquisite were borne and are preserved.
This concept has been rightly compared with the Mandean
concept of Mshunia Kushta ( Hastings, Encyclopedia of Reli­
gion and Ethics, II, 702-708; Brandt, Die mandiiische Religion,
p. 154 ) ,  a mysterious and invisible earth, where live human
beings who are perfectly beautiful, good, and happy, by which,
after the final catastrophes, the transfigured world will be re­
populated, and where, post mortem, the meeting with the celes­
tial Image or alter ego takes place. The comparison with
Mandeism is all the more interesting in that we shall see,
below, other later Iranian traditions dealing with the mys­
terious Earth of Hurqalyi (lshriiq'iya and Shaikh'i traditions ) .
Now, between the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, when
Shaikh A}:lmad A}:lsa'l (founder of the Shaikhl school ) was
questioned about this unusual word designating the celestial
Earth where the seed of the Resurrection Bodies is preserved,
he answered: "It is a word used by the Sabeans (that is, the
Mandeans ) of BaȘra." See below, Part Two, Art. IX, § 3.
48. This caused astonishment, as if it were a peculiarity or a contra­
diction, because of the fact that Zamyat is no longer named in
it! We hope here to suggest a different relationship between
the Imago and the angelophany, the manner in which the Angel
reveals itself in the hierurgical relations experienced by the soul
to whom it "shows itself."
49. SirDza, 28th day.
50. Bundahishn, VIII (Pahlavi Texts, I, 29-30 ) .
5 1 .  Bundahishn, XII (loc. cit., pp. 34 ff. ) .
52. Yasht X ,  50; XII, 23.
53. Bundahishn, VIII, 4.
54. In order to complete this, we should mention Mount Terak
(Taera ) ,  the central peak of the mythical Elbruz (Aiburz )
and center of the world, around which the heavenly bodies
revolve ( ibid., V, 3-4; XII, 4; Yasna XLI, 24; Yasht XV, 7;
XIX, 6 ) .
55. Yasht V, 3 is dedicated in its entirety to Ardvl SorA and de­
scribes her hierophanies with such exact feature• that it hu
27R

Notes/pages 24-27
been supposed that they correspond to statues or figures of the
goddess "drawn by four white horses ( 1S )
•
•
.
having the form
of a beautiful young girl, very strong and tall, her girdle fas­
tened high, pure, of noble illustrious blood, dazzling ( 64, 78,
126 ) . . . .  Her head is crowned with a golden diadem, contain­
ing one hundred eight-pointed stars ( 128 ) .
.
•
•
Her garments
are made of beaver skin . . .  it is gold drowned in silver ( 129 ) ."
See also, e.g., Yasht X, 88; XII, 24; VIII, 6; Yasna LXIV, 14.
56. Yasht V, 96; see n. 46, above, and below, § 4-the eschatologi­
cal role of Ardvl Sura preserving, in the Waters of which she
is the goddess, the Xvarnah through which the mystical con­
ception of the final Savior will be accomplished.
57. Bundahishn, IX, 6; XVIII, 1-4; XXIV, 27; cf. Ringbom,
Graltempel, p. 29S ( the pomegranate tree? ) .
58. Bundahishn, XXVII, 4; it is the "head of the plants" {XXIV,
1 8 ) .
59. Yasht XII, 17. This is the tree in which dwells the bird Sin,
the Simurgh ( Sin-murgh ) ;  cf. Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta, II,
495, n. 26 ( the Simurgh which later, in the twelfth century,
will become the central symbol of a great mystical poem in
Persian by ·Aȗ֊ir) .
60. Ringbom, Graltempel, pp. 292 ff., 406 ff., 448.
61. Bundahishn, XII, 6 (AOslnd6m ) ;  XIII, S-5.
62. Cf. Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta, II, 6SS, n. 98. The ray of the
dawn Oshbdm is "that ray of light which comes the moment
when the light of the sun is visible, without its body being yet
visible, up to the moment when the sun itself appears (day­
break ) .  Its function is to give intelligence to man" ( ibid., p.
S 16 ) .  Regarding these two words as having a common root
( ush, ear, understanding, and also dawn; cf. Latin aures,
aurora ) ,  see E. E. Herzfeld, Archiiologische Mitteilungen aus
Iran, II, 90 (cf. Hertel, Die awestischen He"schafts- und
Siegesfeuer, p. 1 7 ) .  As shown by Yasht XIX, 66, in the later
tradition, the active Imagination seems to have projected and
graspe֋ this hierophany in the mountain rising from the lake
known today as HamOn (on the lrano-Afghan frontier) ,  which
is identified with Lake Kansaoya ( Kansu, Kayinseh ) , and this
mountain would then be called Mount Kuh-i Khwijah (Moun­
tain of the Lord ) . Herzfeld ( p. 99 ) has given a fine descrip­
tion of the mysterious block of basalt that emerges from the
plain of Seistan at the light of dawn. This mountain is likewise
identified with the Mons Victoria/is mentioned in the fragment
of the ••Book of Seth" contained in the Opus imperfectum in
Mtllllla•um ( cf. G. Mesaina, I Magi a Betlemme e una predi-

Notes/Chapter I
zione di Zoroastro, pp. 65-67, 83 ) .  Since the water of this lake
preserves the Xvarnah of Zarathustra in expectation of the vir­
ginal conception of the Savior to come (see above, nn. 46, 56 ) ,
we can understand all the better how Christian exegesis, by
having the Kings-Magi come from the Mons Victoria/is, has
valorized the Zoroastrian prophecy. This same mountain is also
linked with the memory of King Gondophares, whose image is
introduced into Christian hagiography by the Gnostic book the
Acts of Thomas; this book brings to mind the celebrated "Song
of the Pearl," or "Hymn of the Soul," the prefiguration of the
Quest of Parsifal. From there it was only a step to identify
Kuh-i Khwii.jah, the Mons Victoria/is, with Mount Salvat. But,
unfortunately, this hardly suffices to verify the hypothesis of a
"Pii.rslwii.l-Nii.ma," a "Book of Parsifal" in Persian!
63. SirtJza, § 26; Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta, II, 3 16; cf. Datistan-i­
din'ik, XXX, 2.
64. SirtJza, § 39; Darmesteter, II, 32 1 ff. Here we might mention
other figures of "feminine Angels," in connection with eschato­
logical annunciations of dawn: Parendi, especially associated
with Daenii. and Ashi Vanuhi ( see below, § 4, and Gray, The
Foundations of the Iranian Religions, pp. 155-56 ) ; Bamya
( beaming, radiant) ,  who drives the chariot of Mithra and the
third night after death appears to the sacred soul when Mithra
climbs the mountain; in Manicheism, she becomes the "Friend
of the Light" ( ibid., p. 139 ) ;  Ushah, who bears the very name
of dawn ( ibid., p. 164 ) ;  Ushahina, the special Angel of the
hours between midnight and the moment when the stars become
invisible ( ibid., p. 165 ) .
65. Bundahishn, XII, 7; Datistan-i-din'ik, XXI, 1 ff.; XXXIV, 1--4.
66. Datistan-i-dinik, XXXIV, 3.
67. As E. Herzfeld, Zoroaster and His World, I, 352, has rather
too hastily concluded.
68. This mode of perception is a constant. Thus, the mother of
Zarathustra, before his birth, sees in a dream the Xvarnah "in
person" in the form of a fifteen-year-old adolescent ( cf. the
beginning of Zaratusht-Nama, a Persian text edited and trans­
lated by F. Rosenberg, Le Livre de Zor0a8tre; this book is a
long poem composed in Iran by a Zoroastrian in the twelfth
century ) . On the plane of speculative philosophy, this would
correspond to the cosmology of Avicenna, which in a way is a
phenomenology of angelic consciousness, understanding each
Heaven as the "thought" of an Angel. Unfortunately, we cannot
here stress this essential correspondence.
69. We have already called attention above ( n. 3 1  ) to the extreml'

Notes/pages 27-31
importance of a passage in the great Bundahishn in which the
Xvamah is identified with the soul itself.
70. We call your special attention to an article by Pierre Deffon­
taines entitled "The Religious Factor in Human Geography:
Its Force and Its Limits," pp. S4 ff. On the other hand, when
nowadays there is no question of the "earth" being anything but
"a support for culture" or a "social function," we can measure
the downfall that has befallen the phenomenon of the Earth
as it appears to the socialized consciousness.
71. This manuscript is now the property of the Evkaf Museum in
Istanbul. It is an imposing volume ( S 1 X 20 em. ) of some
thousand pages containing an anthology of the Persian poets,
at the beginning of which stands the work of Niċaml. It was
studied and its plates published by Mehmet Aga-Oglu "The
Landscape Miniatures of an Anthology Manuscript of the Year
1S98 A.D." Of the twelve paintings, eleven are inserted in the
portion of the book containing the poetic novels of Niċaml.
What strikes one is that these paintings have no connection
with Niċaml's text itself, nor with the customary manner of
handling the subject in miniatures of post-Islamic Persian lit­
erature, including the themes borrowed from the works of
Niċaml. The high mountains in the full-page reproduction, the
leaping waters of Ardvt Sura, the cypresses ( this is Zara­
thustra's sacred tree, perhaps the Gaokerena) ,  the fantastic
colors which transfigure the landscape and illuminate it with
the Image of Xvamah, and finally-this is a unique example
-the fact that there is not a single personage in the composi­
tion ( the visionary soul is precisely the Presence that peoples
and inhabits the landscape ) : all these characteristics and pro­
cedures take us far from Niċamt and classical Persian miniature.
In commenting on the data of the problem, Mehmet Aga-Oglu
had an inkling of the truth when he referred to certain passages
of the Bundahishn ( to which we have referred in this book) ;
if we take into account certain evidence testifying to the con­
tinuance of Zoroastrian communities in the province of Kirman
up to the present, and in Flrs up to the sixteenth century, the
idea dawns that the paintings of our anthology could have been
made by a Zoroastrian artist. The author of the article quite
naturally was led to pick up the motif of the "landscape of
X varnah." We recall the ardor with which J. Strzygowski for­
merly put into words and defended this motif ( X  vamah Land­
schaft ) ,  his intuition of which was doubtless inspired; but to
the pure historians it appeared as a deduction a priori, all the
mnrr. Irritating because its validity was being discussed on a

Notes/Chapter I
plane (perhaps unknown to the author) to which it was in fact
foreign. Even if the motif became widespread, as is the way
with myths, this already shows that its field of application in
reality is not one in which the "facts" are systematized in such
a way that they can and should be explained "historically" by
the method of causal reduction and material identification. Its
significance is more connected with the phenomenology which
we have attempted to bring out here. Where the material and
causal connections between "facts" are not subject to analyses,
there Can be a COnnection between VisiOn& I Which are alSO faCtS,
but different in nature ( we have already referred [above, n. 10]
to a recent work by L. I. Ringbom, Graltempel und Paradies,
aiming at a new set of values for the same motif, especially
p. 1 13, n. 43, and pp. 306, 338 ) .
72. Cf. Bundahiahn, XXVII, the entire long strophe 24.
73. Concerning the liturgical symbolism of this "celestial" botany,
see J. J. Modi, The Religious Ceremonies and Customs of the
Parsees, pp. 373-77 ( especially the diagram depicting the way
in which the flowers are arranged in groups of eight, and the
manner in which they are displaced and exchanged so as to
symbolize the exchanges between the terrestrial world and the
heavenly world ) .
74. See Zariitusht-Nama ( above, n. 68 ) ,  p. 22. Cf. Ziit-Spram,
XXI, 1 ( Pahlavi Texts, V, 154 ) .
7 5 .  Here we wish to point out a small error, which is important
from the point of view of iconography. In describing the beauty
of the Archangel and his great height (nine times that of
Zoroaster) ,  the Ziit-Spram ( XXI, 8 )  mentions ( if we may be­
lieve what we have read in E. W. West) that the hair of the
Archangel was rolled up "like the tail of a scorpion." We fail
to understand exactly what the learned translator understood
when he states ( Pahlavi Texts, V, 156, n. 8, repeated by Rosen­
berg, Zariitusht-Niima, p. 27, n. 4 )  that this is a "sign of dual­
ity" since the scorpion ( kajdom ) is obviously an evil creature
of Ahriman. But how could such a sign exist on the person of
the Amahraspand'l' The reality is simpler. This is a classical
metaphor in Persian lyrical poetry to designate the ringlets and
waves (:r;ulf} of the hair ( according to Dr. Mul,l. Mo'ln ) .
76. Represented by the "garment perfumed with musk" ( prefigura­
tion of the body of light of the heavenly Earth ) which Zara­
thustra donned when he emerged from the purifying waters of
the river Diiitl ( mental anticipation of eschatology, Zariitusht­
Niima, XXI ) ,  and it is precisely at this moment that the first

Notes/pages 32-35
theophany occurs; cf. below, the body of the Earth of Hurqalyi
(jism Harqalyi ) .  It is perfectly understandable that the ecsta­
sies of Zarathustra created the same problems in Zoroastrianism
as the heavenly ascension (Mi'rdj ) of the prophet Mul,ammad
did in Islam. Was the latter to be understood as an ascension
in corpore ( as by the orthodox ) 1' As a spiritual rapture ( the
philosophers' view ) 1' Or as in the subtle body (the Shaikhls ) 1'
See our study Avicenna and the Visionary Recital, IV, n. 26.
Now, the Archangel, before leading Zarathustra (Zardtusht­
Nama, XXII, p. 28 ) ,  says to him: "Close your eyes for a mo­
ment," and when Zarathustra opens them, he is "in Paradise"
(the converse of the man Adam asleep to eternity and awakened
to the Earth ) .
77. Vendidid XXII, 19. Let us also remember that the "temptation"
of Zarathustra by Ahriman takes place in £rin-Vej, on the bank
of the same river, when Ahriman "attempts" to entice Zara­
thustra from his prophetic vocation ( Vendidid XlX, 1 ff. ) .
Ahriman is defeated, crushed by the liturgical incantation ( as
pointed out above, n. 6, Creation also is a liturgical act ) .
78. Sometimes it is Mount Savalin, a high peak in Azerbaijan
( 4850 m. ) ,  sometimes the mountain of the dawns ( above, n.
62 ) in Seistin.
79. In the Zat-Spram, XXII (Pahlavi Texts, V, 159-62 ) ,  the place
and the heavenly witnesses of the theophany in the case of each
separate conversation with the Seven is given in detail: e.g.,
the mystical conversation with the Archangel Vohuman "took
place" on the mountains of Hiikairya and Ushidarena.
80. De antra nympharum, 6, cited in A.V.W. Jackson, Zoroaster,
the Prophet of Ancient Iran; Bidez and Cumont, Les Mages
helllnises, II, 29 ( according to the testimony of Euboulos in
which the initiative of Zarathustra is connected with the founda­
tion of the mysteries of Mithra) .
81. See the text in Jackson, Zoroaster, p. 236, and Les Mages hel­
linises, II, 28, 142 ff. Mlrkhwind, a Persian historian of the
fifteenth century, again passes on the memory of this ecstatic
ascent to the summit of the psycho-cosmic mountain in £rin­
Vej. In this account Zarathustra is supposed to have said: "This
book [the Avesta] came down towards me from the roof of the
house which is on the summit of that mountain" (Jackson, p.
34, n. 7 ) .
82. See our study "Cyclical Time in Mazdaism and lsmailism," pp.
136 ff., on Daeni-Sophia-Aeon as an archetype-Person; cf. in
Prod us·, AW.v as hypostasis and the Al.Uvn ( The Elements of

Notes/Chapter I
Theology, ed. and tr. E. R. Dodds, pp. 228-29 ) ;  see also R.
Reitzenstein, in Historische Zeitschrift, CXXVI ( 1922 ) ,  32,
n. 1, and p. 5 1 .
83. The etymology of the name Armaiti ( Aramati ) is perhaps in­
soluble. However, it may be possible to come close to its mean­
ing indirectly; for more details, see n. 92, below.
84. See the Pand Namak i Zartusht ( above, n. 32 ) ,  pp. 144-45,
strophe 2.
85. See the text of the great Bundahishn in Nyberg, "Questions,"
I, 237 ( cf. this -choice of the scene of the Gathil of the Great
Decision, Y asna XXX ) . Shahrastiinl, too, attributes the idea
of this free decision, prior to existence in the world of material
bodies, to a sect which he calls the "Gayomartians."
86. On this concept ( Spendarmanh, Spendarmatikih ) essential for
us here, see Denkart, IX, chs. 53, 27; 54, 2; 60, 4; and 69, 14-
15 and 47-48 ( Pahlavi Texts, IV ) ;  these are highly interesting
passages, which demand much more attention than we can
give them here.
87. Cf. W. Bousset, Die Religion des Judentums im spiithellenisti­
schen Zeitalter, ed. H. Gressmann, p. 520; elsewhere, however
( Zeitschrift fur Kirchengeschichte, XLI ( 1922 ) ,  1 7  4 ) ,  Gress­
mann objects to Bousset's view (Hauptprobleme der Gnosis,
p. 336 ) that it is preferable to identify Sophia with Daenii ( the
first comparison in no way excludes this-quite the contrary,
as we shall see later) on the pretext that Spenta Armaiti, unlike
Daenii, has no real demonic antagonist; this merely proves that
the distinguished scholar here had lost sight of the Archdemon
Taromati.
88. Cf. the curious passage in a Pahlavi Rivayat, translated by
Darmesteter ( Zend-A vesta, I, 128, n. 5 ) :  "One day Zoroaster
was standing in front of Ohrmazd, and the Amahraspands were
gathered around their chief, but Spendarmat was near him with
her hand around his neck, and Zoroaster asked him: 'Who is
that creature standing near you, who seems so dear to you?
Your eyes never leave her, nor do hers leave you. You never let
go of her hand, nor she of yours.' And Ohrmazd answered:
'That is Spendarmat, my daughter, the mistress of my house
(Paradise ) ,  and the mother of creatures.' " This quality of
Spendarmat as "mistress of the house" ( kadbana ) has been re­
tained even in the cosmo-angelology of Suhrawardl; cf. below,
Ch. II, § 1 .
89. Yasna XVI, 10; cf. Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta, l, 144, n .  1 7 .  On
Sophia as a "garden" and as "Earth," cf. ulao J .  Poacher, Dcr

Notes/pages 36-39
Konigsweg zu Wiedergeburt und Vergottung bei Phi/on v.
Alexandreia, pp. 58 ff.
90. Cf. Le Livre de Zoroastre ( Zartitusht-Ncima, n. 68, above ) ,
XXXII, p. 37 ( this conversation should be interpreted in the
context of the exchanges which Zoroaster had with each of the
Seven; unfortunately, the translation we quote from could be im­
proved upon ) .  Also to be noted is what can be deduced from the
mention of Daena as "spiritual Lord" ( ratu ) of the "Ohrmaz­
dian" women ( Yasna XIII, 1 ) ; all the latter are associated with
Spenta Armaiti in the liturgical "intention" addressed to her.
Now, according to the Pahlavi commentary on Vendidad XI, 5,
they are identical with the Angel Artai-Fravart, who, in her
"person," typifies the Fravartis as a whole ( see Darmesteter,
Zend-A vesta, I, 123 ) ; concerning the role of Artai-Fravart at
the time of the supernatural birth of Zoroaster, cf. Ztit-Spram,
XVI, 2 (Pahlavi Texts, V, 145 ) .
9 1 .  Denkart, IX, ch. 43, 2.
92. Without reopening an unresolved etymological problem, we
can approach the significance of the name and person of Spenta
Armaiti by cross reference. With E. Herzfeld ( though we are
far from sharing all of his views ) we can compare Armaiti
(Aramati, Armati ) and Tushntimaiti (Tushnamati, thinking­
in-silence; in Yasht XIII, 139, this is the proper name of a
woman; cf. Herzfeld, Zoroaster and His World, I, 341 ) .  We
have further to take into account that the direct antagonist of
Spenta Armaiti is the Archdemon Taromati ( but then we must
guard against the fatal tendency of giving only colorless equiv­
alents to Mazdean concepts, secularized by innocuous moralism
or quite abstract legalism; Taromati is · not merely "thinking
outside the rule," nor is Aramati "thinking according to the
rule" ) .  We can also note in Yasht XIII, 29 and 73, the associa­
tion of the words tushnishad (living in silence ) and armeshad
( living in quiet) ,  for which Herzfeld ( Zoroaster, pp. 353-54 )
gives as Greek equivalents ucyfi and ǒplpfl- ix""' Even if the
etymology is uncertain, the representation is definite-all the
more so, since tushntimatish vahishtci is substituted for
cirmatish vahishtti ( ibid. and Yasna XLIII, 15 ) ,  for then the
Pahlavi expression bavandak-menishnih ( perfect thought ) is
really the exact equivalent of Spenta Armaiti (see Nyberg,
Hilfsbuch, Glossary, p. 33, s.v. ) ,  and Plutarch's translation of
it as Sophia (Isis and Osiris, 46 ) is completely justified. See
Spiegel, Avesta, III, x, and cf. Nyberg, Religionen, pp. 109 ff.
93. cr. references to the texts, above, n. 86.

Notes/Chapter I
94. Diitistiin-i-Dfnik, XCIV, 2. There are variants: for instance, the
trilogy Vohuman (Thought) ,  Xarat (Wisdom ) ,  Spanniik­
Menak ( Holy Spirit) ;  cf. our translation of the Pand Niimak i
Zartusht, § 26, pp. 150-5 1 (cf. also West, Pahlavi Texts, II,
270, n. 3 ) .  Denkart, IX, ch. 60, 5, seems to give preference to
the liturgical sense of the trilogy as putting the Spendarma­
tlklh into practice. Nyberg had already drawn a like conclusion
from the Avesta (the entire series "Manah, Wort und Tat" is
connected with the terminology referring to the mysteries; cf.
Religionen, pp·. 163-66 ) .  It would be useful to compare our
text with a passage from the Ta,awwuriit, a treatise on Isma'Ill
theosophy attributed to N֌lruddln 'fiisl: "His thought be­
comes an Angel proceeding from the spiritual world; his word
becomes a spirit proceeding from this Angel; his action be­
comes a body proceeding from this spirit." ( Cf. our "Cyclical
Time in Mazdaism and Ismailism," p. 167. )
95. Cf. Gray, Foundations, p. 49, and En Islam iranien II, 121 ff.
96. This already becomes apparent and is imprinted, unconsciously
and somewhat clumsily, on the physical features of the child
Zarathustra: the shoulders are those of Ardvl Siirii, the torso
and loins are those of Ashi V anuhi, and the breast resembles
that of Spenta Armaiti ( Dšnkart, IX, ch. 24, 3 ) .
97. This designation of Daenii, here fulfilling the role of the
Fravarti "who has remained in the celestial world," would have
to be developed in a manner which I am unable to undertake
here ( cf. Bailey, Zoroastrian Problems, p. 1 15 ) ,  all the more
so as she continues to be represented in this manner even in the
late Mazdean tradition in Persian ( raviin-i riih; cf. Saddar
Bundehesh, in The Persian Rivayats of Hormazyar Framarz,
p. 5 1 1  ) .
.
98. See the references cited above, n. 87, and our "Cyclical Time,"
pp. 122 ff.
99. Ecclesiasticus 5 1 : 13 ff. Cf. Odes of Salomon, 38 (M. R.
James and H. E. Ryle, Old Testament Apocryphal Books: The
Psalms and Odes of Salomon ) ,  where Wisdom, the heavenly
betrothed, is opposed to the fallen Sophia, Achamoth.
100. Gressmann, in Zeitschrift fi.i.r Kirchengeschichte, XLI ( 1922 ) ,
158-59; R. Reitzenstein, Das iranische Erlosungsmysterium,
pp. 240 ff.
101. Cf. Gray, Foundations, pp. 70 ff.; actually (since Bartholomae )
a distinction in fact was made between two words: on the one
hand the "I" the innermost part of the personality, the heavenly
essence of man, and, on the other, "religion ." The penetrating

Notes/pages 40-42
analysis of Mr. Nyberg ( Religionen, pp. 1 14 ff. ) makes it
possible to bring back together into one, not two words, but
precisely two meanings of the same word. However, contrary
to the learned author, I do not for a moment believe that the
first meaning is the fruit of philosophical speculation, out of
place here ( after all, no one can decide this except according
to his own particular idea of philosophy ) .  For if we are told
(p. 1 14 ) ,  as regards the meaning of "to see" (schauen ) ,  "It
has nothing to do with vision in the ordinary sense. The word
means solely religious vision and the organ through which man
experiences the divine, thus a visionary sense, an inner eye,
a ray of light issuing from the innermost depth of man, a ray
which, being itself divine, is united with the light," then some­
body might object that here we are right in the midst of philo­
sophical speculation! Far from raising an objection; we are
delighted with the explanation and we return to the first and
condemned meaning, on condition that the "I" be given a depth
of meaning other than that of rational psychology or current
experimental psychology.
102. Thus the word Dfn (the Pahlavi form of the Avestan Daeni )
has finally come to mean "religion." However, the "subliminal"
religious consciousness is necessarily different from the com­
plex attached in the West today to the word "religion" ( the
"personal" figure of Din continues to exist ) . That is why it is
important in translation to retain the proper name, even in its
Avestan form ( as we have already done in our translation of
the Pand Namak ) .
103. Cf. Odes of Salomon, 33, in which the Virgin Sophia proclaims:
"I am your Judge," or again ( in Syriac ) "your Faith (your
Religion, your Truth ) "; cf, Gressmann, loc. cit.
104. The locus classicus of the account of the Apparition in the
Avesta is Yasht XXII ( = HadhfJkht Nask ) ;  for parallel pas­
sages in Pahlavi and Parsi-Persian literature, as well as in
Manicheism, see J. D. Cursetji Pavry, The Zoroastrian Doc­
trine of a Future Life, pp. 39-48. In the Persian version of the
Saddar Bundehesh ( ch. 99 ) there is an allusion to the growth
of the soul, the weakness of which is here protected by the
Angel SerOsh ( Sraosha )  during the three days after death pre­
ceding the episode at the Chinvat Bridge, The development of
the three successive stages ( the infant, the seven-year-old, the
fifteen-year-old, which is the archetypal age of the Immortals )
presupposes an organ of immortallty, a spiritual organ, a seed
which has been acquired during life and which blossom& at

Notes/Chapter I
death. Thus Mazdaism really does contain the idea of a mysti­
cal physiology, already alluded to in this book; consequently, it
will be well to give close attention to the Shaikhl texts which
will be studied later on (see below, Ch. n ,  § 4 ) ,  and trans­
lated in Part Two, Arts. IX and x. Note, in the same treatise
( ch. 46 ) ,  the saving intervention of Ardvi Sura at the Chin vat
Bridge, which is to be connected with the parallelism indicated
between Spenta Armaiti and Ardvl Sura at the end of this
paragraph. Moreover, the common characteristics which mental
iconography has·attributed to Daena, to Ardvl Sura, and to the
Virgin of Light of Manicheism and the Coptic gnostic docu­
ments have already been pointed out ( cf. Kramers, The Daenii.
in the Gii.thii.s, pp. 236-37, and ibid., p. 225 ) .  The Mazdean
and Manichean representation of the descent of Daena-Sophia
to the meeting with the soul has also prompted comparisons
with the theme of the "descent of Amithaba" in Pure Land
Buddhism.
105. Cf. n. 82 above. We would like to call attention to the follow­
ing: in the Saddar Bundehesh ( ch. 99 ) the radiant Apparition
answers the astonished soul: "I am your own good Action." The
"imagery" is none the less quite concrete: "She puts her arm
around his neck, and both enter into Paradise, filled with an
immense gladness and an immense quietude." This feature
and many other similar ones should save us from confusing
Figures like this with what are ordinarily called "allegory" or
"personification." These terms refer to a process of abstraction
which differs toto caelo from the mode of perception that is
peculiar to angelology. The holy action ( or faithfulness, or
knowledge, or any other Mazdean virtue ) is perceived by the
Imago which from the beginning causes the mental apparition
of the heavenly person to be virtually present to the soul. This
is something quite different from the appearance of a person
imposed upon us by allegorical personification. That is why,
for example, it is stated in the great Bundahishn ( Nyberg,
"Questions," I, 235 ) :  "From Arshisvang [= Ashi Vanuhi] pro­
ceeds the splendor of the piety which gives access to Paradise"
( and not the opposite ) . If the Apparition can answer: "I am
your Action," that is because the Xvarnah is the divine principle
( existing prior to the body ) which confers on a being the capac­
ity for autonomous action ( xveshkii.rlh, al1To7rpa:yla ) ,  an activity
responsible for a task which is absolutely its own ( cf. Reitzen­
stein and Schaeder, Studien, pp. 230--3 1  ) .  Thus the Action is
revealed at its source, and here Doenii is indrrd Hhown in thr

Notes/pages 42-45
double aspect of Xvarnah ,  which is both Glory and Destiny,
and which she herself is. We can say that the valorization of
Mazdaism has greatly suffered because of the lack of phenom­
enology in its interpretations.
106. Here again ( as in Yasht XIX; see above nn. 48, 67 ) ,  if all of
Yasht XVI, devoted to Daenil, extols Chisti, we should not
speak of inconsistency, but grasp the reason for the transpar­
ency of one mirror-image to the other. Concerning Chisti, see
Gray, Foundations, pp. 140-42; Nyberg, Religionen, pp. 8 1
ff.; Hertel, Die awestischen Herrschafts, p .  6 9  ( Chisti: active
illumination; Chistti.: irradiated illumination ) .
107. Yasht X, 126. Rashnu, the most beneficent, very tall and
slender, walks at the right of Mithra's chariot; on his left, bear­
ing the offerings, Chisti, very straight, clothed in white gar­
ments, the paredros of Daenil.
108. Cf. also Yasht XVI, 15-Hvogvi (wife of Zarathustra ) pray­
ing that her thought, her words, and her action may conform
to the wish of Daenil.
109. Yasht XVII, 16.
l lO. Yasht XIII, 107.
l l l . Yasht XVII, 60-6 1 (cf. Yasht V, 1 7-19 ) ;  see n. 46, above.
l l2. Yasht XVII, 17-24 (Darmesteter, Zend-A vesta, II, 604 ) :
"The good, the great Ashi, cantor of the gods, harmless to the
just, rose up on her chariot, and pronounced the following
w<-rds: 'Who art thou, thou who invokes me? Thou whose voice
is sweeter to my ear than any of those who have invoked me
the most?' " Answering, Zarathustra recalls the episode of his
triumphal nativity; then follows the invitation of the "Angel­
Nike."
l l3. See Gray, Foundations, pp. 63-66. Elsewhere we have shown
how this complicated representation persists even in the arch­
angelical triad of Ismaelian theosophy; see our 2tude prelimi­
naire pour le "Livre reunissant les deux sagesses" de Nǘir-e
Khosraw, pp. 9 1  ff.
1 14. Denkart, IX, ch. 43, 6.
1 15. Cf. the text of the great Bundahishn, appended to the SirDza, in
Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta, II, 3 1 8.
l l6. She is most often shown as the angel of "Righteousness." This
may be so, but such a translation merely illustrates this "laici­
zation" which reduces Mazdean concepts to the abstractions of
rational and rationalist morals, commonplace enough to fit
anywhere at all except in the context of an absolutely specific
Muzdenn vision of the world. A Western man easily distin-

Notes/Chapter I
guishes between a simple act of ''virtue" and an act of "Chris­
tian virtue." But there is also a "Mazdean virtue" which needs
to be understood from this particular point of view. We should
come back tirelessly to such an exemplary sentence as the one
which was recalled earlier ( above, n. 13 ) :  "From the terrestrial
light, Ohrmazd created truthfulness" ( cf. n. 105, above ) .  On
the other hand, Y asht XVIII ( like Y asht XIX ) ,  dedicated to
the Angel Arshtat, extols Xvarnah. The aspect which for us is
"moral" is only one aspect, even a secondary aspect, of the poly­
morphism proper to Mazdean concepts. That is why Hertel
( Die awestischen Herrschafts, pp. 60-64 ) seems to us to be at
least searching in the right direction ( Ashi, Arshti: "irradiation"
as nomen actionis, and "radiatrix" as nomen agentis; Arshtit:
"the state of the irradiated being, uninterrupted radiance or
totality of what is irradiated" ) . This may remind us of the idea
of Nar qdhir (victoria!, triumphal Light) in the philosophy of
Suhrawardl.
1 17. Arshtiit is she who activates and gives permanency to the energy
of the Xvarnah; she is savagaethd (Yasht XI, 16, 2 1 ) ,  i.e.,
according to Hertel ( pp. 68-69 ) ,  "transmuting living beings
into celestial fire," sava being the term meaning the "heaven of
light," insofar as it is the abode of the igneous elements consti­
tuting a human being separated by death from his mortal ele­
ments. Ohrmazdian creatures derive their capacity for this
metamorphosis from the fact that Ohrmazd emitted them into
being ( cf. Yasht XIX, 10 ) through that Xvarnah which consti­
tutes the core of their own being ( their "Glory and Destiny") .
But we have seen earlier that Ashi Vanuhi is its possessor and
dispenser ( she confers and she is that Light of Glory ) ;  its
efficiency depends on her ( she it is who "causes to grow" ) .
1 18. Cf. Vispered II, 2, and its interpretation by Hertel ( p. 69 ) ;
from which Yasna, XVI, 6 ff. ( Hertel, p. 65 ) .
1 19. Cf. the great Bundahishn, XXVI, 36, 38; Gray, Foundations,
pp. 136-37, 172.
120. Of course, in this case the number forty does not determine a
measure of physical time; it symbolizes the totality and com­
pleteness of the event which is, on the contrary, the measure
of "time" ( and not the other way round ) . Likewise, every forty
years, in the paradise of the archetypes of Virna ( above, n .  47,
and the comparison is significant) ,  from every human (or
androgynous ) couple there issues another; Salamiin has to medi­
tate for forty days in the Sarapeion in order for Absil to appear
before him ( cf. our study Avicenna and the Vi1ionary Recital,

Notes/ pages 45-49
ch. V, § 20 ) ;  note also the importance of "periods of forty" in
Ðiifl spiritual practice.
121. Cf. the passages of the great Bundahishn and the Zat-Spram
transcribed and translated by Schaeder in Reitzenstein and
Schaeder, Studien, pp. 2 14-43, a distinct improvement on the
previous translation by Christensen who, especially in the all­
important passage from ch. XIV of the great Bandahishn (p.
230, n. 2 ) ,  failed to recognize the Aramaic ideogram ( gaddeh )
representing the X varnah.
122. Cf. our translation of the Pand Namak i Zartusht, p. 145.
123. Thus, this is one of the prototypes of the xvldhvaghdas ( mar­
riage between close relatives ) . Whatever may be the sacred
mythical meaning of this custom venerated by the ancient
Persians, we wish exactly on this point to note that for the great
poet Farlduddln 'At*ir (d. 6 18/122 1 ) ,  it was the inspiration
of one of his most mystical paradoxes: "'f this mother who
begot me, I have in tum become the spouse. If I am called
Mazdean, it is because I have made love with my mother."
The famous Ðiifl Shaikh Ðafluddln Ardablll ($afwat al-$afa',
p. 176 ) commented on this couplet as follows: The human
soul was engendered from the mysterious womb of the Spirits
(Arwah, the Fravartis ) ;  for the mystic, to return to his origin
is to be born again in the heavenly pleroma which gave him
birth. This birth is at the same time the aspect and the fruit of
his being conjoined with the mother-source of his being, whose
spouse and child he becomes at one and the same time. Here
we have once again one of these little-studied cases in which
the Persian mystic typifies in symbols the characteristics and
images deriving from pre-Islamic Iran.
124. Datistan-i-Dinik, II, 10-13; IV, 6; cf. LXIV, 3-7: From in­
finite Light Ohrmazd produced the form of a priest whose
name was that of Ohrmazd, whose brilliance was that of fire,
and who was as incombustible as the inner part of light; and
in the form of this priest he created that essence which is
called Man. Cf. Nyberg, Religionen, pp. 30-3 1 ,  301-304,
391-92.
'
125. See above, n. 62; Bundahishn, XXXII, 8; cf. Darmesteter, Zend­
Avesta, II, 52 1, n. 1 12.
126. Yasht XIII, 141; cf. Nyberg, Religionen, pp. 305-306. The
Pahlavi (tradition based on Yasht XIII, 128 in fine ) has knowl­
edge of a series of three Saoshyants ( Hushetar, Hushetarmah,
and Soshyans = Saoshyant ) ,  each of whom brings one of the
ln"t millenaries (the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ) to a close.
29 1

Notes/Chapter II
The two Saoshyants preceding the last Saoshyant are also born
supernaturally of a maiden who is said to have penetrated into
the waters of Lake Kansaoya. Thus there is a whole feminine
eschatological series corresponding to the masculine series. Cf.
Yasht XIX, 89 ( Darmesteter, Zend-A vesta, II, 638, n. 125 ) ,
concerning the thirty immortal heroes (fifteen men and fifteen
women ) plunged in mystical sleep until the arrival of the
Saoshyant, who will then arise to aid him in his work. As an­
other illustration of the archetype that here determines the
feminine eschatological series, we should perhaps mention the
legend according to which a hero of recent times, Bahram
Varjavand, comes from the "City of the Maidens" (shahr-i
dukhtardn ) in the direction of Tibet ( Persian Rivayats, p. 434);
could this be an allusion to that kingdom of Amazons to the
north of India referred to in Chinese chronicles? ( Cf. J. J.
Bachofen, Das Mutterrecht, l, 52 1 ff. )
127. Cf. the text of the great Bundahishn (Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta,
II, 3 16 ) .
128. By an epilogue that corresponds to the descent of the heavenly
Jerusalem, symbol of the celestial Sophia, at the end of the
Apocalypse. The Abode of Hymns ( the Gar()tman, highest de­
gree of Heaven ) descends to the sphere of the stars ( the lower
degree of Heaven; see above, § 3 ) ,  while the transfigured Earth
is itself carried up to the sphere of the stars. Everything then
becomes Garotmdn; there is no longer anything but the Abode
of Hymns (cf. Denkart IX, ch. 28, 3; see also below, Part Two,
Art. X I ,  n. 27 ) .
CHAPTER II
THE MYSTICAL EARTH OF HORQALYA
l. See below, Part Two, Introduction and Art. I, for information
on the inspiring figure and principal work of the Shaikh al­
lshraq; also En Islam iranien, II.
2. See our edition of the Book of Oriental Theosophy ( f:likmat al­
lshrdq ) ,  § 209, pp. 199-200 (see n. 1 to Art. I, below ) ,  and
in the lithograph of Teheran, 13 1 5/ 1 897, p. 439, the com­
mentaries of ǌadruddln Shirazi ( Mull a ǌadra ) .
3 .  For details impossible to give here, see our book En Islam
iranien, I, 5 1 ,  100; and III, 197, 198.
4. See the general information concerning Shnikhism, ihicl. , IV,
205-302.
2!>2

Notes/pages 50-74
5. A western bibliography on the "sacrality" of the person of
Fatima is almost nonexistent. Only Louis Massignon has given
it careful thought; see, notably, his two studies La Mubdhala
de Medine et fhyperdulie de Fii/ima and "La Notion du vreu
et Ia devotion musulmane a Fatima."
6. For what follows, see Shaikh ̟ajj Mubammad. Karim Khan
Kirmanl, lrshiid al-'awiimm, m, 194-95.
7. The title l;laǙrat ( literally, "Presence" ) has no exact equivalent
in our language. It is used in addressing high personages of
this world or the other; it conveys the ideas of excellence, maj­
esty, and sanctity. It is, therefore, better to retain it and give
the reader a chance to become familiar with its usage.
8. For further details, see our study cited above, n. 3.
9. For what follows, see lrshiid al-'awiimm ( above, n. 6 ) ,  III,
1 10-17.
10. See his Risiila-yi Sulfiinlya, pp. 164-67.
1 1. To Mub. Mo'ln we owe a note drawing attention to the word
varj ( = farr, khurrah, :x:varnah ) and its compounds, and to the
fact that its use conforms perfectly to the etymology of Persian
authors; see the long account in his edition of the dictionary
Burhiin-i qd#', IV, 2265-67.
12. We have dealt with this in detail in our book, L'Homme de
lumiere dans le soufisme iranien.
13. See Tabarl, Chronique, tr. H. Zotenberg, I, 33-36; cf. Yaqut,
Mu'jam al-bulddn, III, 32 (Jabars and Jiibalqo! ) ;  VIII, 15
ff. ( Qaf = Alburz ) ;  Mo'ln, Burhiin-i qd#', s.v. See the texts
translated below, Part Two, Arts. 1, v, IX, XI.
14. Undifferentiation generally symbolizes the androgyne; here, the
historian, who is not a symbolist and who besides is Muslim,
presents these beings as all of the masculine sex; cf. the frag­
ment of the Gospel According to the Egyptians, which points
out that the reign of death will last until masculine and feminine
form but one ( M. R. James, The Apocryphal New Testament,
p. 1 1; and The Gospel According to Thomas, log. 22, 1 14 ) .
15. See our Avicenna and the Visionary Recital, pp. 1 13 ff.
16. See The Encyclopedia of Islam, s.v. Ǐiif; compare the emerald
rock ( f!akhra ) with the Great Rock ( the mystic Sinai ) men­
tioned in Suhrawardl's "Recital of the Occidental Exile," in
Corbin, ed., CEuvres philosophiques. See our En Islam iranien
II, 258 ff.
1 7. See above, n. 13, and Ch. 1, § 3, the "visionary geography."
18. See En Islam iranien, II, 283.
1 9. Cf. the text of Shaikh Sarkar Agha translated below, Part Two,
Art. X I .

Notes/Chapter II
20. As to what follows, see Avicenna and the Visionary Recital,
§ 13, and the notes and commentaries on the "Recital of J:Iayy
ibn Yaqċan," in which the mountain of Qaf, as it traditionally
is among the Spirituals, is already the cosmic montain, and cf.
L'Homme de lumilre, Ch. m, § 3.
21. Fritz Meier has devoted a study in depth to this world of the
archetype-Images and to the function of the Imagination as the
required organ of perception in a very great Iranian mystic of
the eighth/fourteenth century, Mlr Sayyid •All Hamadanl; see
"Die Welt der Orbilder bei •Ail Hamadanl < t  1385 ) ," espe­
cially pp. 143 ff., where the schema of the world is in striking
harmony with that of Mazdaism: two absolute worlds, that of
absolute Light and that of absolute Darkness; the interworld
of ''mixture," the world of "clarity." The mundua archetypua
is situated at the lower level of the first.
22. In the southeast of Iran, a little more than a thousand kilometers
from Teheran; Kirman is the usual residence of Shaikh Sarkar
Agha ( see below, Part Two, Introduction and Art. XI ) ; there
the Sh̠ikhl community has its school of theology, a college,
and a small press. As will be noted below, the Shaikhl school
has produced a considerable number of works, a large part of
which are still in manuscript and unedited.
23. See the Suhrawardl texts quoted below, Part Two, Art. I.
24. See ibid. "All the charisma, all thaumaturgical actions, the
meetings of celestial princely angels mentioned in the biogra­
phies of mystics, all that refers to the laws of the eighth climate,
in which Jabalqa, Jabarža, and Hiirqalya are found to be rich
in marvels." Our language of today, even philosophical, is so
unfit to describe this world of the Imagination as a perfectly
real world that a satisfactory term is lacking here. We must
avoid all confusion with simple "fantasy"; "imaginable" too
particularly indicates possibility. We need some such adjective
as imaginal to qualify everything related to this intermediate
universe (dimensions, figures, landscapes, and so on ) .  Then
we would have lmaginalia ( as original, not as mere "effigies"
of sensory things ) , just as we have Divinalia. And imaginal
is no more to be confused with imaginary than original with
originary. We have already entered into these problems in our
book Creative Imagination in the $1lfism of Ibn •Arabi.
25. See Dl'iid Qayžarl, commentary on the Fu,a, al-I;likam of Ibn
•Arabi. The text is translated in Part Two, Art. m, below.
26. The mundus archetypua is one of the loci of the studies of our
philosophers from Suhrawardl to MuliA ௙adrl ShirAzi and

Notes/pages 75-83
Hiidl Sabzaviirl (see below, Part Two ) .  This demands much
research; cf. the anonymous treatise in Arabic published by A.
Badawl, ldeae platonicae.
27. See Shaikh Al;lmad Al;lsa'I, Jawami• ai-Kalim, p. 153 ( artificial
pagination; an error of arranging the pages in this lithograph
gives this place to a treatise which is really the ninth risdla of
the third part of the Works ) . See the text translated below,
Part Two, Art. IX, § 3.
28. That is why Suhrawardl created the Persian expression Na­
K uja-Abdd ( a  region which is not in a Where ) ;  the Where is
hereafter involved in the soul.
29. See Jawdmi•, I, 2d part, p. 136.
30. See ibid., p. 153, where it is confirmed that Horqalyii is homol­
ogous with the Heavens of our physical universe, while Jabalqii
in the Orient and Jiiba"a in the Occident are, in this inter­
mediate world, homologues of our elemental earthly climate.
The meaning of other traditions should be more deeply investi­
gated: that, for example, which locates the hell of the earthly
world at the east of this world of the ban:akh, while the earthly
paradise is at the west ( see "Western Paradise" in the Bud­
dhism of the Pure Earth ) ,  the double garden covered with
greenery, mentioned in the Qur'an ( 55 :  64 ) .
31. See Tanzih al-awliya', p. 709. The translation of this entire
chapter will be found in Part Two, Art. XI, below.
32. In the sense in which Suhrawardl uses this word both in his
Book of Oriental Theosophy and in his "Recital of the Occi­
dental Exile" ( in Corbin, ed., CEuvres philosophiques ) ,  the
affinity of which with the "Song of the Pearl" in the Acts of
Thomas bears witness to its gnostic filiation.
33. Tanzih al-awliya', p. 7 1 1 .
34. See ibid., pp. 713-15.
35. See Kittlb al-futat&at ai-Makkiya, Vol. I, ch. VIII, pp. 126 ff.
The translation of this text will be found in Part Two, Art. n,
below.
36. Ibid., p. 127, the striking text that describes the ceremonial of
penetration into the Earth of Truth, where even the impoSBible
is accomplished (see below, Part Two, Art. 11 ) • Ibn • Arabi
was right in saying that even what has rationally been demon­
strated to be impossible in our world nevertheless exists in this
Earth of True Reality, first, the coincidence of Representation
and of the Unrepresentable, of what signifies and the signified,
of the exoteric and the esoteric-in short, everything that makes
this Earth of Truth an "absolute affirmation."

Notes/Chapter II
37. Mubsin Fayċ Kashani, Kalimiit maknana, ch. XXX, lith.,
Teheran, p. 69 ( translated below, Part Two, Art. vm ) .
38. Book of Elucidations ( Talwifl.iit ) ,  § 55, translated below, Part
Two, Art. I .
39. Nar sha'sha'iini, Form of Translucent Light, both resplendent
and delicate; the term characterizes, especially in the Ismii'Ill
lexicon, the beings of the spiritual and angelic world.
40. See the Book of Conversations ( Mutiirafl.iit) ,  § 208, translated
below, Part Two, Art. I .
41. Book of Elucidations ( Talwifl.iit ) ,  § 108; see the translation of
the text and commentaries below, Part Two, Art. I .
42. See the commentaries of Shahrazurl and Ibn Kammuna, below,
Part Two, Art. I.
43. It has been dealt with in the preceding chapter, § 3.
44. As the exemplary case which each Spiritual is called on to re­
produce, see Avicenna and the Visionary Recital, ch. IV, § 14.
45. One can only allude here to the extremely complex data of lived
experience. The "cities swallowed up" represent the failure of
the sensory faculties (compare the abandonment of Absalom
by his army in the A vicenilan recital of Sal amlin and Ab­
sal ) . The being Hermes calls to his aid is the Angel whom the
Suhrawardian pilgrim meets ( "Recital of the Occidental Ex­
ile," Wing of Gabriel ) ,  or the youthful sage who guides the
Avicennan pilgrim, a central figure of the same archetype, or
the one who leads Ibn 'Arabi into the mystical Ka•ba (see our
Creative Imagination in the $ufism of Ibn •Arabi, ch. VI ) .  Let
us remember the "suprasensory personal guide" in the school
of Najmuddln Kubra. Sometimes the circumstances of this re­
union are described as "fission of the moon" ( shaqq al-qamar,
an allusion to the Qur'an 34: 1 ) ,  because the active intelligence
proceeds from the Angel of the Heaven of the Moon, or rather
is the latter's "esoteric" ( there exists, on this point, an entire
treatise of a Spiritual of the fifteenth century, 'All Turkah
Ižfahanl; see En Islam iranien, III, 275-355 ) .  Each Spiritual
becoming in his turn the "seal of the prophetic mission"; some­
times, as is here the case, the circumstances are interpreted as
the "bursting forth of the column of dawn." That is evidently
reminiscent of Manicheism, whose meaning for Ishriiql escha­
tology Shahrazurl was able to valorize, as the irruption of the
"Oriental presence." On the mutation of the Manichean image
of "column of praise" into "column of dawn," see below, Part
Two, Art. I, n. 4. Suhrawardl himself says again: "The experi­
ence of the authentic raptures in the world of HnrqalyA depends

Notes/page.<; 84-88
on the magnificent prince Harakhsh, the most sublime of those
who have assumed a body, the Most Venerated, who is the su­
preme Face of God, in the terminology of Oriental theosophy"
(Mutiirafuit, § 2 1 5 ,  translated below, Part Two, Art. 1 ) .
Hurakhsh denotes the Angel of the Sun, whose "exoteric" is the
flaming mass of the star, his theurgy in the corporealized world.
Suhrawardl addresses one of his psalms to him; on the etymol­
ogy, see Mul}. Mo'ln, The Philosophy of Illumination and the
Ancient Iranian Culture, pp. 22-24. According to a Pahlavi
commentary on Yasht VI, 2 (Darmesteter, Zend-Avesta, II,
404, n. 2 ) ,  "hvare raokhshne" would seem to denote more espe­
cially the rising or ascending sun from which the Angels receive
the Xvarnah and distribute it on Earth. Indeed (here as in the
episode of Hermes ) ,  it is through the rising light ( nur shiiriq )
that the soul divests itself of its material tunic and puts on the
auroral robe ( libiis al-shuruq ) ,  becomes itself auroral sub­
stance, rising Sun (Mutiirafliit, § 22S ) .  Compare with the
musk-perfumed robe that Zarathustra puts on and the one put
on by Ibn •Arabi's mystic when he penetrates into Hurqalya
( translated from the text, below, Part Two, Art. 11 ) • If one
keeps in mind what has been said here ( ch. 1, § S ) concerning
the blaze of the Xvarnah in Eriin-Vej, on the summit of the
mountain of dawns, in the visionary landscape of the Avestan
liturgies, one will understand how, by making this sacred Light
the agent of ecstasy, Suhrawardl represented his own mystical
experience in the terms of a tradition that has been barely
studied, nor even recognized, until now.
46. See our edition of the Oriental Theosophy ( l;likmat al-ishriiq ) ,
§ 225 ( translated below, Part Two, Art. 1 ) .
47. See the commentary of Qutbuddln Shrrazr, p. 5S8 ( translated
below, Part Two, Art. 1 ) .
48. Ibid., p. 258, § § 240-42; see the translation of the entire con­
text below, Part Two, Art. 1.
49. Ibid., p. 242. Hence the cardinal importance of the affirmation
of Iranian A vicennism ( as opposed to A verroism ) of the exist­
ence of the Animae coelestes-that is, the Angels who move
the Heavens and are distinct from the pure Intelligences or
Cherubim whom they contemplate; they represent the world of
pure or absolute Imagination, free of the sensory perceptions
that cause the paralysis or the imaginative absurdities of the
imagination in Animae humanae. This world of the Animae
coele11tes is the one which is terminologically designated as the
Malak at.

Notes/Chapter II
50. See Tanzih al-awliya•, p. 725. ( translated below, Part Two,
Art. XI ) .
5 1. See the admirable episode mentioned by Shaikh Sarkir Aghi
( ibid., p. 723 ) ,  concerning the Imam l:lasan 'Askarl (eleventh
lmim of the Twelver Shl'ites, tenth century ) .  The lmim is be­
ing held prisoner in the caravanserai of the beggars; neverthe­
less, with a simple gesture he appears before his visitor as he
ordinarily appears. "Wherever we are, it is like that. We are
not in the caravanserai of the beggars." (See the context in the
translation below, Part Two, Art. XI. ) In his real person, the
lmim is in Hurqalyi, while remaining visible ( materially ) on
this Earth. In the same way, our commentaries on the fl,adith
(traditions ) as often as not become irrelevant if we apply to
them our criteria of historical criticism. The "spiritual fact"
whose theme is to be found in the fl,adith attests to its authen­
ticity.
52. See the very fine text of Shaikh MW,. Karim Khan Kirmanl,
second successor to Shaikh Abmad Absa1, translated below,
Part Two, Art. x, 2.
53. We should meditate upon the following: the concise sentence
in Peter's Sermon on Transfiguration: Talem eum vidi qualem
capere potui (Acta of Peter, XX ) ;  the conversation of the
Angel Christ with John during the passion of Jesus; the latter's
steps left no footmarks on the soil (Acta of John ) • See our
study "Divine Epiphany and Spiritual Rebirth in Ismailian
Gnosis," § 1 :  Metamorphoses des visions thևophaniques.
54. See Kittib aharfl. al-ziytira, II, 369. This very important passage
is completely translated below, Part Two, Art. IX, 1 .
5 5 .  See principally the following works of Shaikh Abmad: Jawtimi•,
I, 136, 153; Riatila khtiqaniya (ibid., I, 122 ) ;  Sharf, al-ziytira,
II, 369; his commentary on the l;likma al- arahiya of Ðadri
Shlrizl, pp. 179 ff. The translation of these texts will be found
below in Part Two, Art. IX. This is one of the points on which
the Shaikhls and the "orthodox" have come up against each
other; actually, the latter do not possess the capacity, nor have
they ever made the effort, to understand the terms of the prob­
lem. A friend has called to my attention that there is a striking
consonance between the idea of the "fourfold body" and the
doctrine of Rudolf Steiner. As a matter of fact, a rapid com­
parison of a few texts should suffice to draw one's attention to
it, despite certain "functional" differences. It would be worth­
while coming back to it.
56. See Proclus, The Elements of Theolol(y, ed. and tr. E. R.

Notes/pages 89-97
Dodds, prop. 205 and commentary, p. S04. Cf. the important
work of J. J. Poortman, Okhema, Geschiedenis en zin van het
hylisch pluralisme.
57. Corpus hermeticum, XIII, S.
58. See Dodds, Elements of Theology, Appendix n, pp. SIS ff.
( the Astral Body in Neoplatonism ) .
59. Ibid., pp. Sl 6-17; see that Heraclitus of Pontus, the Platonist,
already makes the soul an ouranion soma of luminous substance
( ibid., p. S l6, n. S, but why the need to interpret this idea as
a survival of so-called "primitive thought"? ) .
60. Ibid., pp. S l9-20. Representatives of the first tradition:
Eratosthenes, Ptolemy the Platonist, lamblicus, Heracles; rep­
resentatives of the second: Plotinus, Porphyry.
61. We can compare the passage of the Risiila khiiqiiniya, I, 122,
in which it is stated that the jism a,li ( = insiin (aaqiqi ) is
homologous with the jism al-kulli or ninth Sphere, with prop.
205 of Proclus ( Dodds, p. 1 8 1 ) ,  in which it is said that each
individual soul is related to its individual "vehicle" ( okhema )
as the divine Soul ( below which it is ranked ontologically ) to
the divine body. By an analogy of relationships we can compare
this with the relationship of the okhemata, which are also re­
lated to each other in the same way as the souls.
62. Dodds, Elements of Theology, p. S21 .
6S. Thus, the only "death," and a very momentary death, which
can occur to the jism a,li is the sleep during the interval between
the two "soundings" of the trumpet ( this sleep can be compared
to that of the Seven Sleepers in the cavern, Sura 1 8; see the
Risiila Khiiqiinlya, loc. cit. ) .  In this manner, the general escha­
tology of the Qur'iin ( implying that every being must of neces­
sity die ) is safeguarded. As a philosopher, Ǎadrii Shirazi ( on
whom Shaikh Abmad comments with a sympathy not excluding
criticism ) allows himself more liberty with the eschatological
Qur'iinic data. In the passages translated below ( Part Two, Art.
IX ) we shall see that the "first sounding" is designated as a
"fulgurant blast" or a "blast which reabsorbs"; the second is
called the "blast which propels."
64. M. Maeterlinck, "Le Vieux qui ne veut pas mourir" ( in Le
Cad ran stellaire ) .
65. See Dodds, Elements of Theology, p. S20.
66. We should also take note that the Neoplatonists thought of the
okhema symphyes as spherical ( in the shape of an egg, accord­
ing to Olympiodorus ) ,  whence the opinion, accepted by Origen,
that man returns to life with a spherical body (see Dodds,

Notes/Chapter II
Elements of Theology, p. SOS ) .  This is a strange, even shock­
ing, picture, if one were to take it in the literal, geometrical
meaning, since it goes against every imaginable form corre­
sponding to the canon of perfect human stature. Here the
Shaikh's teaching can be our guide. The jfJ8ad harqaly'i, the
body that is the paradigm of the human body, is preserved in
its "tomb" (that is, in the Earth of Hurqalyi) "in a spherical
shape" ( mustad'ir) ,  but here the nomen agenti8 indicates "that
which draws a perfect circle by closing itself on itself"-that is,
a complete whole, a system which is closed and sufficient to
itself. The symbolical reference to spherical shape does not
allude to geometrical figuration but to the perfection of the
structure, which is wholly preserved and invisibly circum­
scribed, to its imperishable form. The spherical shape means
that even if the perishable elementary body (jfJ8ad A ) is muti­
lated, scattered, the Earth of Hurqalyi preserves the archetypal
body in its perfection and in the integrity of its structure; see
the commentary on the l:fikma al-'arshlya of Shirazi, p. 179;
Sharb al-ziyiira, II, S70 (see the passages translated below,
Part Two, Art. IX ) .
67. Besides the works of Shaikh Abmad previously cited, we must
at least mention here some of the works on alchemy written
by his successors: Shaikh Mubammad Karim Khan Kirmanl,
among others, has composed a trilogy: I ,Iii! al-ajsiid (on the
rectification or purification of bodies ) ; I f/ii/1 al-arwiifl (on the
rectification of spirits ) ;  and I 1ldfl al-nufas (on the rectification
of souls ) .  We might also mention a basic theoretical exposition:
Mir'iit al-/aikma ( The Mirror of Wisdom ) .  Then there is an­
other great treatise on the physical, psychic, and esoteric mean­
ing of the color red ( Ri8iila-yi yiiqatiya) , after the manner of
Goethe, which is the basis of an Iranian theory on colors
(Farbenlehre ) .  Until now all these works have existed only in
manuscript form.
68. Commentary on the l:fikma al-'arshiya, p. 179 (below, Part
Two, Art. IX, 5 ) .
69. See C. G. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, pars. S9S ff. ( in the
method of the alchemical Work, "imaginations" are by no means
schemas without substance, or "fantasies," but something like
a corpus subtile ) ; idem, "Paracelsus as a Spiritual Phenome­
non," pars. 17S ff.; (imaginatio-meditatio as the psychic factor
in alchemy ) .
70. Commentary on the l:fikma al-'arshlya, p. 165 (see below, Part
Two, Art. IX, 4 ) .

Notes/pages 98-102
71. Ibid., p. 331, in which it is demonstrated that life, conscious­
ness, will, which are in the spirit, also exist-but in a lesser
degree-in minerals, which likewise live, toil, and choose. If
the truth be told, what is called hyle ( materia ) is by no means
opaque and dense in itself; mixture is what creates denseness
and decay (cf. the Mazdean idea of gumechishn ) .  The celestial
Spheres themselves are also material, but of a very subtle mat­
ter not perceptible to the senses. The Earth of the Paradise of
Adam ( which belongs to the celestial Earth of Hurqalya ) ,
which the sons of Adam today are no longer permitted to tread,
is not perceptible to the senses, but only to pure Imagination; so
it is with the creatures who populate it and who have an extent,
a sittu, without that excluding the perpetuity and the perennial­
ity of their being.
72. Ibid., pp. 165, 166, containing a commentary on the remark
of the First Imam of Sht•ism (•All ibn •Alt-Talib ) in which he
proclaims that "alchemy is the sister of prophecy"; like the rev­
elation of the Prophet, it protects esotericism ( bii#n ) with an
exoteric envelope (¢/air ) , so that ordinary mortals can speak
of it and know it only from the exoteric point of view. "I call
God to witness! It is nothing but solid Water, incompressible
Air, impenetrable Fire, fluid Earth."
73. Literally, it is its "nadir"; see Risiila khiiqiiniya in Jawiimi•,
I, 123-24- (below, Part Two, Art. IX, 4- ) .  Thus we come pre­
cisely to the representation of the "Diamond Body," and here
again the expression issuing from the heart of Shl'ite Islam
concords unexpectedly with a concept of Vajrayana Buddhism.
74-. Ibid., p. 124-.
75. I;likma al-•arshfya, p. 332.
76. See Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, par. 4-26, n. 2; Avicenna
and the Visionary Recital, I, ch. IV, n. 26.
77. Commentary on the I;likma al-•arshfya, p. 332.
78. Ibid., p. 1 19.
79. See the important work in Persian of Shaikh ijajj Mul}.ammad
Karim Khan Kirmanl, lrshiid al-•awamm ( above, n. 6 ) ,  some
pages from which are translated below, Part Two, Art. x.
80. Ibid., II, 277. Compare also the extract from Mulli Ðadri
Shlrizl, Part Two, Art. VI, below ( Spissitudo spiritual is ) •
81. Ibid. Here one could insert an exhaustive comparative study of
spirituality. What we alluded to above as "docetism" ( nn. 4-2
ff. ) would be seen in quite another light than in the framework
of historical theological polemics. Between Hurqalyi and
Snmbhogakiya homologies can be foreseen that it is impo1111ible
30 1

Notes/Chapter II
to go into here. Perhaps even Avicennan cosmology, seen as a
phenomenology of angelic consciousness, would reveal to us this
world of "absolute affirmation," since each Archangel, each
celestial Soul, and each Heaven realizes, hypostasizes the con­
sciousness of another Archangel. See our book Avicenna and
the Visionary Recital, pp. 46 ff.
82. Swedenborg, De Coelo et ejus mirabilibua, 156.
83. Ibid., 175.
84. Ibid., 363 : from this it becomes clear in what sense the alchem­
ical Operation prefigures the condition of the Paradisiacs. It
makes manifest what was hidden, occult (esoteric, bii#n ) un­
der the :¢hir, which then becomes transparent. Now it is said:
the Angel has the vision, the real apparition of what he medi­
tates; his esoteric part is spontaneously manifested in an ex­
ternal form. This is why the alchemical Operation, as a psychic
event, takes place in the Earth of Hurqalyi.
85. Irahii.d al-•awii.mm, II, 66-67.
86. Commentary on the l;likma aJ-•arahiya, pp. 187, 227. The
process leading to this equation between the archetype "I" as an
essential body and the Paradise which is its celestial Earth is
extremely complex. I would like to add further the following,
in order to emphasize the thematic articulation of a few pages,
the translation of which will be found in Part Two, Art. x,
below. "I am not speaking in metaphors," says Shaikh Karim
Khan, "in announcing that the celestial Earth of the believer is
his body itself." Man is composed of a dimension of Light and
a dimension of Darkness. The first is constituted by the Heaven
of his being, which is formed of eight Heavens or celestial
Earths. The second is constituted by the obscure Earth of his
being, comprising seven Earths. A "handful" of each of these
Heavens and these Earths can enter into the formation of his
"essential body." The presence of the eight Heavens in man
applies only to the Perfect Man. As for ordinary men, some
have received a handful of one of the celestial Earths, the
others two or three, and so on. At their resurrection, their acts
thus appear in different forms, but they correspond to the de­
gree of the celestial Earth of which they have received a "hand­
ful" ( see that with Proclus, the souls have been "sown" among
the stars ) .  If this handful is from the first Heaven, for example,
the totality of their acts will be epiphanized in form homologous
to the first Heaven, and so forth. This is why, since the celestial
Earth of each man is absolutely his own and since this celestial
Earth is his own acts epiphanized in thV form of palaces,

Notes/pages 102-105
gardens, houris, and the like, one can truthfully say that the
Paradise, the celestial Earth of each man, is "in the Heaven of
his being" and is absolutely his own, for no one else has a share
in it. Thus we see the outline of the circle ( individuation ) ap­
pear. Each action of Light comes from a Heaven of the soul's
dimension of Light; one can say, therefore, that "the clay of
each of the faithful has been taken from the Earth of his Para­
dise." In their turn, these acts go back to this same Heaven
and are epiphanized there. His essential body originates in the
Heaven of his being (his celestial Earth ) , and by its action,
which "returns" to its own Heaven, produces its own celestial
Earth. Hence one can truthfully say that the celestial Earth of
the faithful gnostic in his own "essential original body" ( 'ox71p.a.
crvp.4>mi'> of Proclus ) ;  see Irs had aJ.•awdmm, II, 282-84.
87. See above, Ch. 1, n. 47 in fine, and Jawdmi', I, 153. Actually,
the word was already known to Suhrawardl in the twelfth
century.
88. Text quoted by E. S. Drower, The Mandaeans of Iraq and Iran,
p. 55 (cf. above, Ch. 1, nn. 105-106 ) ;  see ibid. ( according to
Das Johannesbuch der Mandiier, ed. M. Lidzbarski, p. 126 ) ,
the story of the maiden awakened from her sleep and warned
by "her sister in Mshunia Kushta."
89. E. S. Drower, "Hibil Ziwa and the Parthian Prince," pp. 152-
156.
90. "Hymn of the Soul," 76 ff.; see above, Ch. 1 , n. 62 in fine, and
H. Leisegang, La Gnose, tr. J. Gouillard, p. 249.
9 1 .  The Gospel According to Thomas, p. 45, log. 84. Cf. above,
Ch. 1, n. 20.
92. These words were reported by Bernard Gavoty in Journal musi­
cal franfais, December 25, 1952, p. 8, according to the per­
sonal ֈestimony of the composer's son, Dr. Franz Strauss, who
was at his father's bedside and took down these "golden
words."

PART TWO
SELECTIONS FROM TRADITIONAL TEXTS
ARTICLE I
SHIHABUDDIN YAijYA SUHRA W ARDI
1. Concerning all the Suhrawardl texts given here, we refer once
and for all to the critical edition we ourselves made of the
following works: ( 1 )  Opera metaphysica et mystica, I; ( 2 )
CEu.vres philosophiqu.es e t  mystiques de Sohrawardi ( Opera
metaphysica et mystica, II) . Each volume is preceded by Prole­
gamines (I and II ) in French.
2. This is followed by a lengthy conversation about initiation into
"presential knowledge" as opposed to re-presentative knowledge
through the intermediary of a form or species. The first is
presence of oneself to oneself, au.rorante illumination, cognitio
matu.tina. The dialogue is not without its humor. In it Aristotle
expresses himself as a Platonist and speaks highly of Plato,
ending with praise of the great Ðufl masters. " 'Among the
Islamic philosophers,' I asked him, 'is there one who approaches
Plato in rank?' 'No,' he answered, 'not by one-thousandth of a
degree.' Then I recapitulated the names of those I knew and
decided to take no further interest in them. My thoughts re­
turned to Abu Y azld Bas։iiml and to Abu Sahl Tustarl. It
seemed to me that Aristotle was delighted with them. He told
me that these were philosophers and Sages in the true meaning
of the words. They have not become bogged down in purely
descriptive knowledge, which is merely representation through
an intermediary form. They have progressed as far as that
knowledge which is Presence, union, direct vision." It must not
be forgotten that when our authors were reading the Theology
said to be by Aristotle, they thought that they were reading
Aristotle, when they were actually reading Plotinus. Therefore,
Suhrawardl will make a distinction between his case and that
of the Peripatetics of Islam; as for Mullii Ðadrii, whose judg­
ment is that of a good Shl'ite accustomed to esotericism, if
Aristotle criticized the Platonic doctrines, then according to
him this was a purely exoteric attitude.
S. This is an important allusion : it is in Jilbnr௘il-thnt is, in the
world of HilrqalyA-that the convrr11ntion tnkrs place which
!104

Notes/pages 118-122
initiates into the knowledge of self as an aurorante Presence,
cognitio matutina ("he who knows himself, knows his Lord") ;
this means that such knowledge marks the entrance into that
celestial Earth which is the Earth of Visions and Earth of
Resurrection, the Earth of which the body of resurrection is
made, as the fruition of everything which has been attained in
the course of this earthly life by knowledge and way of being
(see the Shaikhl texts, below, Art. IX ) .
4.. •Amad al-$ubia, spelled with fad, "column of dawn." In fact,
the word should be spelled with sln, "column of praise," one of
the basic images of Manichean eschatology. Actually, some
manuscripts do give this spelling. On the one hand, there are
two very good reasons for the orthographic mutation: the
expression • A mad al-$ubia (with fad) ordinarily indicates the
"light of dawn," and its "bursting forth" supplied our Spirituals
with a theme of meditation very close to the one which is sug­
gested by the Qur'anic verse 54: 1, the "bursting forth of the
moon" (shaqq al-qamar) .  On the other hand, although the
ascent of the "column \)f praise" here corresponds perfectly to
the ecstasy of Hermes, the expression "bursting forth" ( shaqq )
retained by the author and his commentators makes it obligatory
to preserve the image of the column of dawn. Besides, the
"column of praise" is a "column of light." In any case, our
authors were so aware of being in the presence of a Manichean
idea that Shahrazurl, in commenting on the corresponding
passage of the Oriental Theosophy (our edition, p. 233 ) ,
seized the occasion to explain the individual eschatology of
Manicheism with all the more sympathy in that he interprets
it as being accomplished in the world of Hurqalya. On the
Manichean idea, see especially Henri-Charles Puech, report in
the Annuaire du Collͽge de France, 59th year, 1959, p. 269.
Prayer, as an "exhalation of light," is imagined as being a
"column of praise" made, accordingly, out of luminous ele­
ments, "the channel through which pass first the souls, the frag­
ments of the living Soul, the prayers, and the hymns which
accompany them."
5. An allusion to the verses of the Qur'in 6: 13 1 and 28: 59.
6. In n. 4., above, we called attention to the orthographic mutation
of the word fUbia. On the theme of the bursting forth of the
Moon (Qur'ln 54: 1 ) ,  see above, Part One, Ch. n, n. 45.
7. The contrast between the two commentators is striking. Ibn
Kammuna toils and hesitates; Shahrazurl is a disciple com­
pletely sure of what he is interpreting.
8, Set! Georges Vajda, "Les Notes d'Avicenne sur Ia 'Th-ologie

Notes/ Article I
d'Aristote,' " p. 3 5 1 .  The reference is to the marginalia of Avi­
cenna. These notes are all the more precious since they throw
some light on his own project of "Oriental Philosophy," the
drafts for which are now lost.
9. Hurakhsh, spiritual entity, the Angel of the Sun; see Part One,
Ch. n, n. 45. Concerning the various etymologies suggested,
see Muh. Mo'In, Burhiin-i qii#, IV, 2390. With reference to
this Mazdean solar Archangel, we are reminded that certain
texts of Islamic gnosis interpret the fourth heaven ( Heaven of
the Sun ) as the Heaven of Christ; in Jewish gnosis, it is inter­
preted as the Heaven of the Archangel Michael.
10. Regarding this idea of "witness of contemplation" (shiihid ) on
which we cannot expand in this book, see our book En Islam
iranien: III, 65 ff.
1 1. Concerning this word, see our Prolegomene II to the CEuvres
de Sohrawardi ( bikma iliihiya= theo-sophia, the ?Jakim muta•­
allih and the theosis ) •
12. This passage has been repeated verbatim by Mlr Diimiid; see
En Islam iranien, IV, 9-53.
I S .  With regard to the sequence of the following themes: Angel of
the Sun, rising sun, Xvarnah, ecstasy of Hermes at dawn, au­
roral light, and auroral robe, see n. 9, above, and Part One,
Ch. n ,  n. 45.
14. So attention is called to the fact that here again a basic repre­
sentation of Suhrawardl's Oriental Theosophy (donning the
auroral robe as the introduction into the world of Hurqalyii )
is expressed in terms of the investiture of the X varnah-that
is, in terms of Mazdean tradition. In Part One of this book
( Ch. 1 )  we saw that the idea of this Light of Glory predomi­
nates in all expressions of Iranian thought. It serves also to sup­
port homologations of the Zoroastrian Saoshyant with the hid­
den Imam.
15. That is, of Hurakhsh, the Angel-Prince of the Sun (see n. 9,
above ) ;  this allusion again underscores the solar character of
the royal Xvarnah.
16. Hence the case of Kay Khusraw, the ecstatic King ( who dis­
appeared mysteriously from this world, "taken up" like Elijah,
Enoch, Jesus ) typifying with Zarathustra, in Suhrawardl's
view, the mystical charisma of ancient pre-Islamic Iran.
17. That is, intermediate between the greater Orient, world of pure
Intelligences, and the lesser Orient, or world of the Soul (see
Part One, Ch. n ,  § 2 ) ;  its location is that of al-A'riif, or the
"Earth of sesame" created from what was left over from the

Notes/pages 123-130
clay of Adam ( see below, Arts. 1 1  and IV ) .  According to our
text, these events are psycho-spiritual facts; they do not come to
pass in the world perceptible and verifiable by the senses; their
narration deals not with outer empirical data but with events
taking place in Hurqalyi, the mundus archetypus, where the
light of dawn rises, and which is entered only by him who has
put on the robe of this light ( cf. the robe donned by Zoroaster
in order to come into the presence of the Immortal Saints, and
that donned by the initiate in the account of Ibn 'Arabi, below,
Art. u ) .
18. The two commentators stress that it is not with the material
body. Here we might call to mind the photisms experienced by
Najmuddln Kubri; see our book "L'Homme de lumiere dans le
soufisme iranien."
19. It is of the utmost importance to distinguish between the Ele­
ments and the Heavens of the world of subtle bodies in order to
understand not only the foundations of imaginative perception
(itself operating on a twofold plane ) but, in addition, all that
the Shaikhl texts suggest about the physiology of the "resur­
rection body" ( see below, Art. IX ) .
20. $aydfi (with two fad'S ) mu'allaqa: literally, citadels, fortresses;
the word is used metaphorically to designate bodies-in this
case, bodies which are "subtle" but all the more substantial in
that they do not depend upon a substratum, upon a matter for­
eign to themselves, and for that reason are said to be "in sus­
pense." The ever-recurring example of tl1e mirror, which bears
witness to the presence of the suprasensory world in our very
perceptions, would call for an excursus into a kind of esoteric
verification of the laws of optics ( this applies also to the her­
meneutics of the spiritual senses ) .
2 1 .  For the meaning and the being of these forms whose "matter"
is the soul itself, see the text of Mulli Ðadri Shirazi (below,
Art. VI ) ; this is also the way in which Shahrazurl interpreted
Manichean eschatology ( above, n. 4 ) .  Referring to the distinc­
tion of a double barzakh (corresponding elsewhere to pre­
existence and to post mortem becoming ) ,  see below, Arts. u ,
I n ,  and v.
22. This expression, which the lshraqlyan have borrowed from
pre-Islamic Iranian chivalry (sipah-bud today is the title of a
commander-in-chief) ;  in this case, the image is equivalent to
the hegemonikon of the Stoics.
2!1. We are reminded that in the case of Suhrawardi this word
barzakh technically refers to everything that is body and extent

Notes/ Article II
and, consequently, forms an interval, a distance. In this sense,
the world of autonomous Images and subtle bodies is also a
barzakh, since it is provided with extent. But it is also the
world through which resurrection comes to pass; in that case,
barzakh means the interval between the exitus and the great
Resurrection. This is the sense in which our authors most fre­
quently take it.
24. In support of this we would at least like to mention two excep­
tionally interesting documents: the Diarium spirituale of Ruzbi­
hin (n. 10, above ) and the personal testimony of Najmuddln
Kubri (n. 18, above ) .
25. This brings to mind the symbolical color connected with each
heavenly body.
26. "Seven Very Firm Ones" (sab• shidiid ) is the Qur'iinic term for
the Heavens of the seven planets ( 78: 12 ) .
27. In n. 19, above, we have already called attention to the im­
portance of the distinction between the Elements and the
Heavens of the mundus archetypus.
ARTICLE II
MUij:YIDDIN IBN •ARABI
1. It need hardly be pointed out that, in describing Adam as the
"Imam of mankind," the word Imam has as full a significance
as in Sht•ite theology: the guide, the one who goes before, the
leader, the one whose example is followed by all those who
come after-that is, the archetype. Suhrawardl, in his Book of
Oriental Theosophy ( §  173 in our edition ) ,  also mentions the
special nature of the palm tree; his commentator takes the
opportunity to quote a saying of the Prophet which we find
echoed here: "Honor your aunt the palm tree, for she was
created out of the remainder of Adam's clay."
2. •Abd al-Karlm Jill, Kitiib al-insiin al-kiimil, n, 28 ( see below,
Art. IV ) .
3 .  The passages translated here would call, in context, for a
complete study of the symbolism of. the palm tree; see J. J.
Herzog, Real-encyklopiklie fur protestantische Theologie und
Kirche, 3d edn., VI, 505 ( Phoenix dactylifera ) ,  and XVIII,
388-90 (Sinnbilder) .  C. G. Jung, in his article "The Philo­
sophical Tree," collected extremely interesting texts regarding
the symbolism of the tree in general. The palm tree as a symbol
of the celestial Earth of Light is the antithesi11 of the mandrake
as the symbol of the dark, demonic I•:nrth, nhm nrntl'd out of
!lOR

Notes/pages 133-136
Adam's clay. Hildegarde of Bingen writes: "Mandragora . . .  de
terra ilia, de qua Adam creatus est, dilatata est .
•
.
sed tamen
herba haec et propter similitudinem hominis, suggestio diaboli
huic plus quam aliis herebis adest et insidiatur" ( Physica, I, 56,
cited in Hugo Rahner, "Die seelenheilende Blume. Moly und
Mandragore in antiker und christlicher Symbolik," p. 224 ) .
4. Here the context calls for a comparative study of the Qur'inic
commentaries ( tafsir ) on Sura 19: 23 ff., grouped by families.
( 1 )  Sunnite tafsir: Fakhruddln Razl, Mafdtl/;1. al-ghayb, V,
784: the palm tree which had not been fertilized is an exemplifi­
cation of Maryam. ( 2 )  ;flfl tafslr: Tafsir attributed to Ibn
'Arabi: the palm tree is "the palm tree of your soul springing
up toward the Heaven of the Spirit through your union with the
Holy Spirit" (II, 4 ) .  The same idea of Maryam exemplifying
the mystic in the tafsir of Ruzbihin of Shlriz, 'Ara'is al-bayan,
II, 8. ( 3 )  Shl'ite tafsir: for the lsmi'llls, the whole of the Sura
is interpreted in terms of their esoteric prophetology. The palm
tree typifies gnosis as spiritual food (Miztij al-tasnim, ed. R.
Strothmann, p. 189 ) .  For the Twelve Shl'ites: Tabarsi,
Majma' al-bayiin, II, ad loc.: Maryam's palm tree is connected
with the heavenly palm tree referred to in lmim Ja•far's l;l.adlth
quoted in n. 5, below. Tafsir a/-fdfi, Mubsan Fay:t:, p. 299:
Maryam leaves her family and withdraws to the East ( 19: 16 ) ,
that is, toward the Earth of the Imams. See also Mub. Biqir
Majlisl, Bibdr al-anwar, V, 3 19 ff. (Safina, II, 582 ) .  We
would very quickly rediscover the sources of the theme of
Fiȗima as supracelestial Earth ( above, Ch. n ,  § 1 )  and the
typological correspondences between Maryam, mother of Jesus,
and Fiȗima, mother of the Holy lmims. Let this note suffice to
suggest to the reader, by one small example, the amplitude of
research to be done in Islamic theology.
5. The tradition of the palm tree created out of Adam's clay is
recorded in the great encyclopedia of Shrite traditions by
Majlisl, Bibar ·al-anwdr, XIV, 840 ( Safina, II, 581 ) ;  it figures
as a lengthy answer given by the sixth lmim, Ja•far Ðidiq, to
someone who asked him about the origin of the palm tree. The
answer includes further details illustrating the significance of
the palm tree as a symbol of the celestial Earth. When God
banished Adam from Paradise he ordered him to take the palm
tree (down ) with him. Adam planted it in Mecca. All the palm
trees "directly descended" from it belong to the species 'ajwa
(the unusually exquisite and substantial Medina dates ) .  All
other palm trees, in the Eastern and Western parts of the
J<:nrth, came from the pits of these dates.

Notes/ Article Ill
6. The Throne ( 'arsh ) and the Finnament ( kursi ) : concerning
these classical tenns in hierocosmology, see again the teaching
of the Imam Ja•far, Bilaiir, XIV, 98: the kursi is the outer
threshold of the Invisible; the 'arsh is its inner threshold. In the
celestial physics of the philosophers, the 'arsh is the Sphere of
Spheres, or ninth Sphere; the kursi is the eighth Heaven, or
Heaven of the constellations.
7. Dhul-Non MiȘrl again uses this image, word for word, in the
account of him given by Ibn 'Arabi (p. 128, lines 15-16 ) ,  to
compare the dimension of the heavens according to our astron­
omy with the extent of the "Earth of white camphor," which is
one of the earths of the celestial Earth: "If our heavens were
to be placed in it, they would be in regard to it as a ring lost
in a desert."
8. This whole text from Ibn 'Arabi is reproduced and developed
in Majlisl's Shl'ite encyclopedia, XIV, 87.
9. Concerning 'Abd Allah ibn •Abbas, see Mimaqinl, Tanqila
al-maqiil, no. 6921. For the fourteen dwelling places, see the
passage translated below, Art. x, 1 .
10. Cf. the passage from Mubsin Fa>" translated below, Art., vm.
1 1 .  See our Creative Imagination in the $afism of Ibn 'Arabi, p.
350, n. 10 (hereafter cited as $a/ism of Ibn 'Arabi ) .
12. For the date of the death of Awbadl Kinninl, see M. A. Tab­
rlzl, Raylaiinat al-adab, I, 123, n. 291.
13. Cf. lines 12, 108-109 of the last scene in Goethe's Faust:
Part 11 here used as an epigraph: Das Unbeschreibliche, Hier
ist's getan-what is undescribable here takes place in fact.
14. See the last allusion in ch. 111 (Noah ) of the Fu,O,f al-laikam
( ed. A. E. Affifi, I, 7 4; II, 43 ) .  Ibn • Arabi states that he has
written about the Heaven of Tala in his book on the Tanazzuliit
maw,iliya ( unedited MS; Tala is the name of the Angel govern­
ing the fourth heaven, the Heaven of the Sun; see also Art.
IV, below) .
ARTICLE III
DA'OD QAYÐARI
1 .  On the situation of this mundus archetypus in the hierarchy of
the levels of being, or Ijaq.ariit, see our $afism of Ibn 'Arabi,
pp. 225 ff., 360 ff.
2. In the following passages this will also be expressed in other
allusive forms: as a world contained in the horizon of the Soul
of the world, or "topographically" as a world beginning at "the
3 10

Notes/pages 137-152
convex surface of the Sphere of Spheres," the threshold of
which is the celestial pole, the rock of emerald. Among the
philosophers, the subtle and original matter of the supreme
Heaven emanates from the first Intelligence through the act of
contemplation of its virtual negativity; the matter of the Heaven
of each Intelligence marks the "distance" between itself and
the Soul issued from it.
3. Concerning this distinction, see our $a/ism of Ibn 'Arabi, pp.
219, 358-59. In short (see below, Arts. vn and vm ) :  the
separated imaginative world ( munf(Jfil ) is the absolute mundua
archetypua, the world of autonomous Images, subsisting in
themselves. It is the Malakat, the world of the Soul existing
apart from the human faculties which have their seat in the
brain. Then again, the world of the Images of our active imag­
ination is a world of Images that are imminent to this imagina­
tion and "captive" in it. Nevertheless, it is an imaginative world
which is adjacent ( mutt(Jfil ) to Malakat, in continuity with it;
hence the noetic value of Images and imaginative perception as
a "window" or "lattice" ( see our text) through which the light
of the Malakat penetrates into us.
4. An allusion to the vision of the Prophet mentioned in Sura 53
(The Star ) ,  v. 14.
5. See above, n. 3: the forms present or "captive" in our imag­
ination exemplify the forms of the world of the absolute
Imagination, not engaged in a substratum of "material matter,"
as they appear to the souls of the Malakat. Dii'Od QayȘart also
says ( p. 28 ) : ''The visible world is the epiphany ( m΀J?:har)
of the world of the Malakat, that is, of the absolute archetypal
world."
6. See the context of the "prayer of the heliotrope" of Proclus in
our $a/ism of Ibn 'Arabi, pp. 105-1 1.
7. See above, nn. 3, 5.
8. Cf. the text of Mullii Ðadrii Shlrizl, translated below, Art. V I .
9. See the Cairo edition, III, 78. Shamsuddln Lihljl will lay great
stress on this distinction, which is based on the cycle of the
forms of being.
ARTICLE IV
'ABD AL-KARIM JILl
1 .  For the context of this sentence of the Prophet, see our $afiam
of Ibn 'Arabi, pp. 239-41.
3 1 1

2. That is, al-Kathib; as to this place in the other world, see our
Introduction to Part Two above, in fine.
3. To designate this state of compresence, we must say consens
(from consum, as praesens comes from praesum ) ;  see our
$afism of Ibn 'Arabi, p. 374, n. 27. The idea referred to is
that of a call, a reciprocal exigency like that of the lord ( rabb )
and the one of whom he is lord ( marbab ) ,  without which he
would not be this lord; a reciprocal co-naturalization of "that
which is shown" and "the one to whom it is shown," of the
Giver of gifts and the one to whom and for whom they are
given. To be a Watcher is to be "in the present" of this com­
presence, not to be present with something or someone other.
4. The Watcher, Awakened, is the Muntabih, the Yaq?:cin-pre­
cisely the word that appears in the name of the hero of one
of the mystical novels of Avicenna, lf.ayy Ibn Yaq?:an, and
which is the literal equivalent of the Greek Egregoros. See our
book Avicenna and the Visionary Recital. The concept of
Egregoros has been "reactivated" in our day by Etienne Souriau
in his book L'Ombre de Dieu.
5. See the Introduction, above.
6. Ibid.
1. In this theme of the Stranger we rediscover a characteristic
Gnostic theme, the fundamental note of the "Recital of the Occi­
dental Exile" of Suhrawardl (in Corbin, ed., CEuvres philo­
sophiques ) ,  as well as of the "Song of the Pearl" of the Acts
of Thomas. For other statements by Jilt clarifying his concept
of Spirit, cf. the books cited in our $afism of Ibn •Arabi, pp.
249 and 369 f., nn. 59, 60.
8. On the country of YaŠ, see above, Art. n, n. 14.
9. That is, imprisoned in the world of the Elements, of sensory
space, which must be left behind to reach the nonsensory exten­
sion of the world of raց-an attainment assuming, as in all
similar passages of our authors, that one can leave space with­
out leaving extension.
10. On the "men of mystery," the Invisible Ones, forming the final
theme of the present chapter, see below, n. 28.
1 1. On the sesame "left over from the clay of Adam," see above,
Art. II, the text by Ibn • Arabt.
12. This phrase seems to have been inserted by the author himself
in the thread of the recital, which continues immediately after­
wards in the first person. Note the reciprocity, especially empha­
sized, between the two ideas: Earth of Imagination and Earth
of sesame.
3 1 2

Notes/pages 152-157
13. See above, Art. 11, the text by Ibn 'Arabi.
14. Here a new occurrence is slipped in by the author, which we
prefer to report in a note for better clarity: "That is what we
are interpreting in the present book; to that we are opening
this door."
15. Here there is a poem of fifteen couplets, continuing the theme
already developed by Ibn 'Arabi: the Earth of sesame, of which
the palm tree is the symbol, is the sister of Adam-that is,
of man-or rather, the daughter of his mystery (see above,
preface to Art. 11 ) .
16. On the himma, the enthymesis, creative power of the heart, see
our $a/ism of Ibn •Arabi, p. 222 ff.
17. On the prophet Kh̔r ( Khadir) ,  see ibid., pp. 53 ff., and above,
Introduction: his sovereignty over the "Earth of souls" ( the
"hyperborean paradise") , which is the very same as that re­
ferred to here.
18. In order to understand here the mysterious and paradoxical
statements of Khiƛr about himself, it is appropriate to recall
that a fraction of Twelver Shl'ite Ðufism identified him with
the hidden lmim ( the twelfth lmim ) .  Certain of these state­
ments recall and even reproduce some of those that figure in
certain sermons attributed to the first lmim: the full moon,
the decisive word, the pole to which the entire hierarchy of the
Invisible Ones is attached. These among other things reveal
the affinites of Shl'ite lmimology with a Gnostic Christology.
The coincidentia oppositorum ( Deus absconditus : Deus reve­
latus; liihat : ndsat; esoteric : exoteric ) is resolved in the person
of the lmiin who is not an Incarnation (hypostatic union ) but
a theophany (see the Shaikhl texts cited below: the theophanic
person of the lmim is perceived "in Hurqalyi," not in the
empirical data of ordinary evidence ) .
19. The raqiqa is the subtle intermediary ( the tenuous thread )
that joins two things, like the unfolding of the link that binds
God to man; see Sprenger, Dictionary, 582, cited in H. S.
Nyberg, Kleinere Schriften des Ibn al-'Arabi, p. 72, n. 2 (cf.
above, the text of Art. 11 in fine ) .
20. Lilhat and ndsat: divinity and humanity, classic terms of Shl'ite
lmimology (see above, n. 18 ) .
2 1 .  On the mountain of Qif, see above, Part One, Ch. 11, § 2.
22. On al-A•raf, see the preface to the present article and § 1,
above. Here the secret of al-A'raf is revealed as the dwelling
place of Khezr and therefore as the interworld ( barzakh )
connecting the divine ( liihat ) and the human ( nasat ) ,
3 1 3

Notes/ Article IV
23. Here we have a whole series of references alluding to Sura 18
(The Cave-that is, the Sura of the Seven Sleepers ) :  1 8 : 59-
60 ( the confluence of the two seas ) ;  18: 64 ( Khiƛr is in this ) .
The symbols are linked here like a progression of chords; if
one says al-A'riif or Hurqalya, it is the confluence of the two
seas-that is, of liihflt and ndsut; that is why Khiƛr is found
with the rijal al-ghayb, the "men of the Invisible Ones," the
"men of al-A •raf" (the Imams and their people ) ;  that is why
from one shore he plunges into the river Where ( the ndsflt, the
dimensions of sensory space ) ,  and from the other he quenches
his thirst at the source (the liihut ) ,  the most frequent theme in
the iconography of Khiƛr.
24. See Sura 18: 60 ( and the "Recital of the Occidental Exile" of
Suhrawardl ( in Corbin, ed., (Euvres philosophiques ) ;  the sym­
bol of the fish typifies the pilgrims who have found their way
to the lake that the mystical Sinai overhangs ) .
25. See the entire episode of Sura 18, in which Khiƛr appears as
the one who initiates Moses and who therefore is invested with
a charisma superior to that of the prophets ( an idea held espe­
cially in certain Imamite Ðufl circles ) .
26. An allusion to the secrets of the ''philosophical alphabet"; on
this point Sht'ite Imamology has even affected a literal trans­
position of a well-known episode in the Childhood Gospels, the
young Imam Mu}J.. Baqir ( the Fifth Imam ) being substituted
for Jesus. See our study "De Ia Gnose antique a Ia gnose is­
maelienne," p. 121.
27. On this idea, see above, n. 19, and cf. our $ufism of Ibn •Arabi,
pp. 195 ff. : "the God created in the faiths."
28. This is one of the most important themes of the esoteric
theosophy of Ðufism. What Jtlt says here about it is so much
more difficult to determine and to translate because it tends
simultaneously toward a phenomenology of the presence of these
Invisible Ones for the adepts (their apparitional forms ) and to
a description of their way of being in themselves, all in sym­
bolic allusions valid on one plane and another. As a short indi­
cation of the hierarchy of these initiates ( awliyii' ) ,  let us simply
recall this l),adith: ''God has on Earth three hundred eyes or
persons whose heart is conformed to the heart of Adam ( the
300 nuqabii' ) ;  forty whose heart is conformed to the heart of
Moses (the 40 nujabii' ) ;  seven whose heart is conformed to the
heart of Abraham ( the 7 abdiil ) ;  five whose heart is conformed
to the heart of Gabriel; three whose heart is conformed to the
heart of Michael; one whose heart is conformed to the heart
of Chnmurl I thr tmlr; in Shl'ite term11, the hlddrn I mAm)." For
3 1 4

Notes/pages 157-162
the context, see En Islam iranien, III, and IV, 26 1. But there
are many variations; instead of the group of five, the group of
four awtdtl (below, n. 32 ) ,  and the six categories of Jill do not
necessarily have to be put in exact correspondence with those
enumerated above.
29. On the relationship between nubawa and waliiya, the cycle of
prophecy and the cycle of Initiation, see En Islam iranien, I,
220, 239.
30. Allusion to Qur'inic verse 7: 52.
3 1 .  Literally, the "vases," receptacles ( al-awiinf ) .  The great mystic
l:laklm Tirmidhi, in his lthbiit a/-'i/al, recalls a (aadlth where
it is said: "There are for God certain vases on earth, yes! hearts
[of the spirituals]." ( Brought to our attention by M. Osman
Yahya. )
32. The Awtiid al-arf/.. If the expression of Jill is to be taken here
in a strict sense, it refers to the four awtiid arrang'!Ci around
the pole. Just as the hierarchy described above (n. 28 ) cor­
responds to an astronomical symbolism, so the idea of the four
awtiid ( "pillars") presumes the homologation of the spiritual
cosmos to a vision of Heaven as a tent resting on four "posts,"
the pole at the center representing the support of the whole.
In any case, what is said here about the situation of the four
awtiid corresponds well to what Kh̔r. their pole, previously
gave about himself. See our book, L'Homme de lumiere dans le
soufisme iranien, ch. III, § § 2, 3.
ARTICLE V
SHAMSUDDIN MUI:IAMMAD LAHIJI
1. Thus it was in Jibaւi that Suhrawardl says he had his con­
versation with the apparition of the Magister primus, Aristotle.
See above, Art. 1, b.
2. Here the author has in view the pages of Di'Od Qay11arl cited
above, Art. 111, n. 9.
3. Allusion to the Qur'inic verse 18: 59. As we have seen pre­
viously ( above, Art. IV, n. 23 ) ,  this "confluence of the two
seas" is where Khi,r is to be found, the sovereign of the land
of Ta(a, of the "Earth of the Souls," of the Watchers of ai-A•raf,
in the place between: between /iihat and nisut.
4. An allusion to Qur'inic verses 7: 136 and 70: 40.
5. Regarding this distinction between the plane of the deity and
the plane of the Names or divine personalizations which for
rntௗh creature are respectively the divine Lord or "suzerain"
3 1 5

Notes/ Article VII
( rabb ) of this creature, to whom the divinity manifests himself
in the form of this Name, see $1lfism of Ibn •Arabi, pp. 121 ff.
6. Thus we see how the traditional meaning of Jabalqa and
JabarȘi bears fruit for Lahljl in a very personal experience,
which shaped an idea of the Orient which ultimately is that of
Suhrawardl. Each universe, each individual, has its Jabalqa
and its Jaba11i, its Orient and its Occident, its dimension of
light and its dimension of darkness. To pass through this, ac­
cording to the expression of the poet quoted in the above text,
is to become "oneself an orient of lights."
ARTICLE VII
•ABD AL-RAZZAQ LAHIJI
1. Regarding this designation, see the Introduction to Part Two
of this volume and the texts of Suhrawardl translated above,
Art. 1. In his lexicon, Jurjanl gives "Platonists" as an equivalent
of the term lshrtiqiytln.
2. See above, Art. 1, n. 16.
3. It must not be forgotten, however, that Suhrawardl, as well as
Mulla Ðadra, puts the responsibility for this opposition not so
much on Aristotle (presumed author of the celebrated Theol­
ogy, with whom Suhrawardl conversed "in Jaba11i" ) as on the
Peripatetics themselves.
4. That is, the prologue of the Book of Oriental Theosophy (l:lik­
mat al-ishrtiq; see above, Art. 1 ) .
5. Concerning the Ðufls, see the passages translated in Arts. 11-v
and the reference to •All Hamadanl in Part One, Ch. 1 1 ,  n. 21.
6. Regarding this distinction, see above, Art. m, n. 3.
7. However, Suhrawardl states explicitly that the archetypal Image
exists only for a complete being; for instance, there is not one
image for musk and another for the perfume of musk.
8. See the theme of "condescendence" in our $1lfism of Ibn •Arabi,
pp. 156 ff.
9. See the passages referred to in Art. m, n. 3, above.
10. The meaning of the word barzakh ( which in Greek has produced
the form 7ra.pa.uay•t'l<; ) , interval, something between, interworld,
has been made sufficiently plain in all the passages which have
been translated in this book, so that there is no need to stress
it again.
1 1. It has already been pointed out that our authors couple the
theory of visionary apperceptions (including the perception of
!1 1 6

Notes/pages 153-178
the spiritual meaning of revelations ) with the theory of mirrors
and an esoteric interpretation of laws of optics ( De perͿpec­
tiva) .
12. Refer here especially to the excerpts from Mulla Ðadra trans­
lated above, Art. VI.
13. The /shrdqiyan have always been careful to uphold this distinc­
tion, which has motivated more than one controversy. The
problem is complicated by the fact that the same word ( mithiil,
plural muthul) is always used. The Platonic Ideas interpreted
in angelological terms cannot, of course, be either universals or
simply ideas in the divine mind. On the other hand, the Form
or Image of Light-for example, Perfect Nature or celestial
Alter Ego-is perfectly individualized; it is neither logical
universal nor concrete sensory. In any case, it is through the
"regional ontology" of the mundus archetypus that the Platonism
of the lshriiqiyan became an essential organ of their Islamic
eschatology.
14. The first (•ilm (lu,au ) presupposes a species, the creation of a
form which represents the object for the knowing subject. The
second (•iJm (au{iarl ) is a direct intuitive knowledge, the type
of knowledge that the subject has of himself; see above, Art.
1, b, and the notes thereto.
ARTICLE VIII
MUl,ISIN FAYփ KASHANI
I .  The chapter is entitled "In which the existence of the mundus
archetypus or interworld ( barzakh ) is made clear, and its
qualitative and quantitative aspects."
2. These lines are in literal agreement with a passage in the text
of Da'ud Qayքarl translated above, Art. III.
3. Regarding this distinction, see above, Art. III, n. 3, and the text
of Lihtjt, Art. VII.
4. The Samaritan, in fact, saw the Angel whom the others did not
see ( as the Prophet saw the Angel, whereas the Companions
saw only the young Da}:tya al-Kalbt ) .  That is why the Samari­
tan, knowing that the Earth over which the Angel had passed
could give life to inanimate things, gathered a handful of that
earth and threw it into the molten metal of the golden calf.
5. Concerning this theme, see above, Art. VI (Mulla Ðadra ) ,  and
cf. the text translated below, Art. IX, 1.
6. For this theory of the mirrors, see above, Art. VII, n. 1 1.

Notes/ Article VIII
7. See above, Art. VII, n. 8. That is why, if a philosophy denies
the world of Hurqalyi, it can no longer perceive the events of
spiritual history on their own plane of reality. Rational con­
sciousness is faced with this dilemma: either the abstract truths
of reason, or the empirical facts of history (whether from the
viewpoint of contingency or determinism ) . And all the rest is
degraded to the level of myth or allegory.
8. See Part One, Ch. II, § 3: the Mi'rdj of the Prophet has become
the archetype of mystical experience for all Ðiifls. Here again,
lacking Hurqalyi as the Earth of Visions and the idea of the
"spiritual body" it postulates, one is once more faced with this
dilemma: either to see the Mi'raj as a philosophical allegory,
or to understand it in a literalist, ordinary, and absurd manner
as an assumption in corpore.
9. This means that one does not in fact pay this visit "in the
cemetery" but, consciously or not, "in Hurqalyi" ( see the
words of Maeterlinck quoted above, p. 96, and the passage
translated below, Art. IX, 2 ) .  Hence the significance of the
ziyarat ( ziyira ) ,  "religious visitation, pilgrimage," especially in
Shrism. Certainly, it is good to make a physical pilgrimage to
the sanctuaries which shelter the tombs of the Holy Imams.
But, in fact, this spatial movement is a rite intended to sustain
the mental pilgrimage into the invisible, "into Hurqalyi." That
is why the ziyiirat ( for which so many prayers have been com­
posed in Shrism ) are practiced privately, and frequently where
one happens to be, in the privacy of one's own oratory. (See
below, Art. IX, the passages concerning the "body of spiritual
flesh," which is preserved intact "in Hurqalyi.")
10. Shaikh Ðaduq (Ibn Bibiiyah ) of Qumm ( 140 km. southwest of
Teheran ) ,  one of the most eminent Shrite theologians of the
tenth century ( d. 38 1/99 1 ) ,  author of 189 works, of which
only a few have reached us.
1 1. It is known that Qur'inic Christology is determinedly docetist
( 3 : 48, 4: 156 ) .  So, although the text of Mu\lsin FaP. here
says ba'd mawtihi, one should read ba'd rafihi, in keeping with
all the Shrite traditions on this point (Safina, II, 192; Muh.
Baqir Majlisl, BiǕiir al-Anwar, V, 348-52 ) ,  as with Mu\lsin's
own commentary on the Qur'in ( Kitab Tafsir al-$afi, pp. 89 f. )
and the others ( see Mulli Fat\1 Allah ad 111 : 48 ) .  Jesus was
"carried away" to Heaven like Khiƛr-Elijah, ldrls-Enoch, and
kept apart until the Resurrection. It is precisely thanks to the
world of Hurqalyii that the Christology of this Islamic prophet­
ology is docetist, yet without turning the person or Christ, ao to

Notes/pages 178-180
speak, into a phantasm. Later on, the reader will see (Art. XI )
the deep meaning which the idea of the hidden Imam acquires:
it is men who have made themselves incapable of seeing him
and have hidden him from themselves. In the same way his
enemies, in denying Jesus his prophetic message, have obscured
him from themselves: he whom they believed they had put to
death was no longer there ( 4: 156 ) ,  and he is never there
when one interprets events by historical materialism, under the
guise of theology, instead of grasping the spiritual history "in
Ho.rqalya."
12. Imamites-that is, Twelver Sht'ites or adepts of the twelve
Imams. In Shl'ite eschatology, the theme of the "return" is that
of the "Companions of the Imam," who put an end to historical
time; previously (Part One, Ch. n, § 1 )  we called attention to
the correspondence with the Zoroastrian motif of the "Compan­
ions of the Saoshyant."
ARTICLE IX
SHAIKH AijMA T AijSA'I
1. This great work on 460 pages in folio is without doubt the
most important of Shaikh Abmad Absa'l's writings; d. the
Fihrist or bibliography of Shaikhite works by Shaikh Sarkar
Agha, pp. 15-16 (hereafter: Fihrist ) .  The general ziyara ( see
above, Art. vm, n. 9 )  addressing the Fourteen Very-Pure
commemorates all the qualifications of the Imams; the commen­
tary thus becomes a summary of Shl'ite theosophy. The arrange­
ment of the texts here translated will make it possible to under­
stand step by step the idea of the twofold jcuad and the twofold
jiam; in what sense the jcuad B is preserved; how the four
bodies are respectively constituted; the type of meditation which
substantiates the subtle body and which is homologous to the
alchemical operation; and last, the function of the active Imag­
ination in regard to that operation. The reader is referred to
Part One of the present book, Ch. n, § 4. Shaikh Abmad, it
will be noted, makes his thought more explicit with each stage
of his expos6.
2. Regarding the complexity of the terminology, cf. Paul Kraus,
Studien zu Jabir ibn lfayyan, II, 19 ff.; Mub. Khin Kirminl,
Ristila-yi Na.fJrlya, pp. 56 ff. The distinction between jcuad and
jism is correlative to the distinction between the "Heavens" and
the "Elements" of HurqalyA.

Notes/ Article IX
3. Measure of weight equivalent to 2,564 grams.
4. Regarding the events heralding the dawn of the Resurrection,
that is, the new cosmic cycle, see the following texts.
5. Sometimes changed to Sorayel or Souriel.
6. Here Shaikh Al)mad clearly wishes to forestall the objection of
the orthodox literalists; but, as we have already pointed out,
the latter have never understood or really wished to understand
the problem as it was posed by the Shaikhls.
7. This description still refers to the pleroma of the Twelve; see
Part One, Ch. n, § 1.
8. Concerning the valley of Barhiit, see Safina, I, 7 4.
9. Concerning the meaning of the "two blasts of the Trumpet,"
see below, § 4.
10. In other words, the relationship of the body of perishable flesh
(jasad A )  with the body of spiritual flesh (the subtle body,
jasad B )  is analogous to the relationship of the astral body
( jism A ) with the supracelestial archetypal body ( jism B ) .
The purification in readiness for the Resurrection consists in the
elimination of Elements A (those of the physical world, jasad
A )  and of the astral elements ( those of Hiirqalya, jism A ) .  The
corpus resurrectionis in its integrity is jism B plus jasad B.
This analogy explains the terminology of the holy Imams pre­
viously pointed out by the author: the term ashbii/;£ (subtle
body) used for asjiid ( that is to say, jasad B )  and the word
"Spirit" substituted for the word "body" ( that is to say, jism
B ) .
1 1. The 'iilam al-dha"; cf. the logoi spermatikoi. The Qur'anic an­
nouncement that "every being must die" is carried out by the
first blast of the Trumpet. But it is no more than a cosmic
pause, a momentary reabsorption. The spirit departs from its
astral body as it departed from its body of perishable flesh and,
at the second blast of the Trumpet, rediscovers its body of
spiritual flesh.
12. Regarding the series of symbols describing eschatology and
renewal, see again below, § 4.
13. Tabarsi, the eminent Shl'ite theologian of the fifth/eleventh
century; regarding the book (IMijiij) in which the saying of
the Imam is recorded, see Shaikh Agha Buzurg, Dhan'a, I,
281, Art. 1472.
14. 'All ibn Ibriihlm of Qumm (fourth/tenth century ) ,  the author
of one of the most ancient Shl'ite commentaries on the Qur'iin
(Mamaqanl, Tanqli,J, no. 8 1 02 ) .
1 5 .  Regarding this treatise of Shaikh AlUmad, Ref! Fihriat, p .  1 5 .

Notes/pagc.'l 182-197
The work referred to as Jawdmi' al-Kalim, 2 vols. in folio, is
a large collection of writings by the Shaikh.
16. This is the traditional idea of Hurqalyi, already met with in
the present book. However, we should note in this case the
further detail that "between the times"-between "physical
time" and "eternal time"-is the time of the Soul or of the
Malak at ( what Simninl calls zamcin anfusi, endogenous time ) .
17. See above, n. 10.
1 8. Regarding this notion of the eschatological episode in Islam in
general, see A. J. Wensinck, The Muslim Creed, pp. 163 ff.
19. Regarding this treatise in which Shaikh Abroad answers four
questions concerning Hurqalya, see Fihrist, p. 34.
20. See above, Art. r, and Part One, Ch. 11, § 2 ( the quarta dimen­
sio, above, Art. vr ) .
21. Up to now we have been unable to confirm this reference. In
fact, we have already pointed out that everything our authors
say about Hurqalyi exactly corresponds in Mandean cosmology
to the world of the Doubles or celestial Images, Mshunia
Kushta. But Suhrawardi, in the twelfth century, was already
familiar with the term, as we have seen.
22. Namely, the world of the "Elements" in the universe of
Hurqalyi. See also above, Art. v.
23. The "tomb" which is not "in the cemetery" but in Hurqalyi;
see above, § 2, and Art. vm, n. 9.
24. See the extracts from this commentary, below, § §  4, 5.
25. That is, the epistle addressed to Fatb-'All Shih Qijir, from
which an extract is translated below, § 4.
26. This refers to the unending source of misunderstanding of the
Shaikhs ( above, n. 6 )-i.e., confusion between arithmetical
unity and ontological unity, inability or refusal to conceive the
idea of a caro spiritualis implicit in the idea of resurrection,
as in lmimology.
27. See the other texts translated here, § §  1 and 4.
28. See above, § 1, last part.
29. The spiritual body, the reality of the caro spiritualis (jasad 8 ,
composed of the Elements of the universe of Hurqalyi ) ,  is hid­
den in the dense, opaque, corruptible body of flesh. It loses
nothing of what it is when the latter disappears. Jasad B, the
body of the Earth of Hurqalya, together with jism B, form the
supracelestial body, the corpus resurrectionis.
SO. Regarding this symbol, see below, § §  4, 5.
Sl. Habd•, 'ama•; cf. our $afism of Ibn 'Arabi, pp. 185 ff.
32. Refers to the Riscila al-Khaqciniya ( cf. Fihrist, p. 3 1 ) ,  in which
32 1

Notes/ Article IX
Shaikh Abmad answers five questions put by Fatb-'AII Shah;
the text given here is taken from the answer to the first ques­
tion.
33. Refers to the paradise described herein under the various names
of the celestial Earth; our authors make a distinction between
this and the paradise of the Aeon to come, the "absolute Para­
dise."
34. Five things to which the Spirit itself ( Rtl?l ) is added as a sixth;
cf. below.
35. This is Proclus' okhlma symphyes; cf. the previous passages
from Shaikh Abmad.
36. The number 70 is not a cipher representing a quantitative rela­
tionship, but is a form or multiple of the numerous septenarius
( cf. Kraus, Studien zu Jabir ibn IJayyan, II, 22 1 ) .  It is the
symbol of a qualitative differentiation, expressed here as ten
cycles of seven ( ten octaves ) ; jasad B does not belong to the
"carbon cycle."
37. Still, that is to say, "in Hurqalya" until reunited with jism B;
see above, n. 23.
38. It should not, however, be forgotten that it has been said and
will be said again that the Spirit departs with its jism A (the
astral body of the Heavens of · Hurqalya ) , which it will aban­
don "when the Trumpet sounds." But, a fortiori, it leaves with
its jism B, the archetypal body from which it cannot be dis·
sociated.
39. Regarding the qualitative sense of the number 70, see above, n.
36.
40. In passing, let us note that Shaikh Abmad always uses the
word rtlfl, spirit, in the feminine. It can be of either gender in
Arabic. In Aramaic, the word is feminine ("my mother the
Holy Spirit" in the Gospel of the Hebrews in the Gnostic Apoc­
rypha ) ,  and this is not a mere grammatical coincidence.
41. Whereas the first blast of the Trumpet is the "flaming breath"
or Breath of Universal Reabsorption, the second, being the
Breath of Resurrection, is a breath of propulsion, inaugurating
the reintegration of all things, the apokatastasis which figures
in many other cosmogonies; in lsmailian gnosis, the great
Ressurrection inaugurates the "Cycle of Epiphany" ( dawr al­
kashf).
42. Cf. with what has been said above about the archetypal Image,
Part One, Ch. 1, § 4; Ch. 11, § 4 in fine.
43. Thus a comparison could be made, both of the "six Treasuries"
and also of the rejunction of the elemental parta with the Ele-

Notes/'pages 197-205
ment from which they sprang, with the anthropology of the
Mazdean Book of Genesis, the Bundahi.!hn.
44. A rather long passage has here been omitted concerning the
process by which the vital soul comes to be adjoined to the
embryonic organism.
45. An allusion to the Qur'an, 56: 87-88.
46. Here then we have further information concerning the physiol­
ogy of the resurrection body: the esoteric or suprasensory part
of the vegetable soul, coming from the Elements of Hurqalya,
is the ja8ad B, the caro spiritualis; the esoteric part of the vital or
animal soul, emanated from the Souls which move the Heavens
of Hurqalyi, is the ji.!m A, the astral body which goes with the
Spirit at the moment of the exitw, but which is separated from
it at the Resurrection, when the Spirit dons its "spiritual flesh,"
its jMad B.
47. The interval of the cosmic pause is ciphered as 400 years. Here
again, as in the case of the number 70 ( above, n. 36 ) ,  this has
nothing to do with quantitative time, but is a "figure" symbol­
izing the endogenous time of the total maturation of the
resurrection: the tetrad multiplied by a hundred (cf. the sym­
bolic value of the "figure" forty, above, Part One, Ch. 1, n. 120 ) .
For this symbol, cf. also C .  G .  Jung's Alchemical Studies, In­
dex, s.v. quaternity; see also below, § 5.
48. Cf. the remark above, n. 40.
49. The definition of the alchemical operation is exactly that of
spiritual hermeneutics: to hide the apparent and manifest what
is hidden. Hence, it is not exactly a chapter in the "pre-history
of science."
50. It would be important to compare these data, translated here
for the first time, with the homologation& studied by Jung in
Psychology and Alchemy and Myaterium Coniunctionis, and by
Mircea Eliade, The Forge and the Crucible.
5 1 .  Concerning this important work of Shaikh Abmad, see Fihrist,
p. 32. A few pages from Mulli Ðadri's own work are included
in the present book ( above, Art. VI ) .
52. Mir' at al-Ǖukama' : speculum philosophorum, the word "philos­
opher" being understood in the sense in which Olympiodorus
and Stephen of Alexandria take it. The terms operatio secreta
artia, traditional in Latin alchemy, are the exact equivalent of
the Arabic 'amal al-Jinti'a al-maktam.
53. See our $a/ism of Ibn 'Arabi, pp. 108 ff.
54. Ibn Shahr-AshUb was a famous Iranian Shrite theologian who
lived in the Mazandarin ( southern shore of the Caspian Sea ) ;

Notes/ Article IX
he died in 588/ 1 192. The extract from the homily attributed
here to the first Imam serves only to illustrate the original con­
nection between the alchemical idea and Shrite esotericism
( the Imam and the Stone ) : the similarity between the prophetic
message and the alchemical Work emphasizes it further. It is
known that Jabir ibn l:layyan proclaimed himself to be a disciple
of Ja•far Ðadiq, the Sixth Imam (see the work of Paul Kraus
cited above, n. 2 ) .
55. Coincidentia oppositorum, possibly referring also to anterior
states of matter, to cycles of cosmic alchemy (homologous to
the cycles of prophecy ) ,  of which the posthumous development
of the four bodies constituting man would itself be only one
phase.
56. In the traditional manner, Shaikh A\lmad quotes lemmata at
some length from the writings of Mulli Ðadri and inserts his
own commentary, which is why our translation of this and the
following passages appears to be a dialogue.
· 57. Shaikh A\lmad's reservation is interesting. It underscores the
fact we have already pointed out that the view of Shaikhite
philosophy differed equally from that of the philosophers and
from that of the theologians of literalist orthodoxy in relating
the fact of resurrection to the spiritual body.
58. The two terms have appeared here so frequently that there is
no need to go into them again. However, let us just note that
in our day terms such as noosphere and psychosphere have been
invented and excite all the more admiration on the part of
those who adopt them in that they have no idea that the tradi­
tional theosophers of old already had something of the sort in
mind!
59. Cf. the passage from Mu\lsin Fayƛ translated above, Art. vm.
60. The classical precept of alchemy: solve et coagula.
6 1 .  Ma'dan flayawtini rf.i/ltini = lapis vivus spiritualis. Cf. C. G.
Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, par. 426.
62. Allusion to the Avicennian theory of the procession of the In­
telligences producing, by their acts of contemplation, their
Heavens and the Souls moving them, a cosmology described by
us elsewhere as a "phenomenology of' angelic consciousness."
63. Koine aisthesis, or synaisthesis; cf. our book Avicenna and the
Visionary Recital, Index, s.v.
64. Cf. this theme in our $a/ism of Ibn 'Arabl, pp. 180 ff. This
exactly guarantees the noetic value of the forms of the imag­
inative consciousness : the God imagined therein is the very God
ima΁rinin1r him11C'If through this orgnn; hent:e the reciprocity,
:124

Notes/pages 206-216
the undeniable correlation of the two situations: knowing being
and being known, known, that is to say, in the very act of know­
ing, and vice versa.
65. In the following lines, Shaikh Aսmad gives us a complete re­
capitulation of the physiology of the resurrection body, starting
from the four bodies of man, with which we have become
acquainted in the preceding texts. What it is important to
notice, apropos the passages from Mulli Ðadra, is the emphasis
on the preeminent, transcendent part played by the active Imag­
ination, the latter being so nearly consubstantial with the spirit­
ual anima, the "1"-spirit, that, contrary to the common opinion
of the Philosophers, physical death does not touch it. Thanks
to it the "Form of Resurrection" is the work of the Person. This
"subtle matter" has to be given its human form, whereas many
give it only an animal form. So the Imagination here performs
the alchemical work, the mediant action, active meditation,
imaginatio vera (see the passages from Mulli Ðadri, above,
Art. VI ) • Here we find the transition toward the text that will
be given below, Art. x, 1.
66. These reflections developing, it will be recalled, a proposition
of the Imam Ja•far confirm that we have to take the terms
istidara, mustadir, not in the sense of rotundity, sphericity, but
as what we suggest by the expression ''perfect shape," signify­
ing the constant perfection and harmony of structure ( tartlb,
tarat tub ) ;  cf. above, Part One, Ch. n, § 4, n. 66.
67. We have been given to understand here many times that the
"tomb" is not "in the cemetery" ( see above, n. 2S ) but "in
Hurqalya," where it is symbolized for each being by one of the
"holes" perforated in Seraphiel's cosmic Trumpet.
68. This is the everlasting objection, as we have said, of the literal­
ist "orthodox" in opposition to the Shaikhls. And because they
have not so much as glimpsed the metaphysical import of the
idea of metamorphosis, they have equally failed to grasp the
essential link between the physics of resurrection and the ethics
of resurrection, whereas the Shaikhls are continually and
strongly stressing it ( cf. above, n. 65 ) .
69. As regards form, it follows that it is true that numerically it
makes two, and this is exactly why there are two jasad, the one
made up of sublunar Elements, the other of the Elements of
Hurqalyi..
70. Namely, the astral body that accompanies the "1"-spirit at the
moment of the exitus and remains conjoined with it until the
"first blast of the Trumpet" inaugurates the great cosmic pause.

Notes/ Article X
7 1 .  We have already had occasion to recall how this primordial
question and answer make their effects felt on all the planes
of all the universes. Beginning from the pleroma of the ltihat,
the order of succession of the responses typifies the order of
succession of the Fourteen Very-Pure and of their Heavens (see
above, Part One, Ch. II, § 1 ) .  It could be said that this Qurinic
verse, used as a key to the ShJ•ite metaphysics, in which the
preexistence of souls is a premise, also determines its "person­
alism." And the same remark applies to the Mazdean idea of the
"preexistential choice" of the Fravartis.
72. The soul's preexistential choice may also call to mind here the
Platonic myth of Gorgias.
ARTICLE X
SHAIKH I;IAJJ MUI;IAMMAD KARIM KHAN KIRMANI
1. On this work, to which we have already referred ( Part One,
Ch. II, § 1 ) ,  see Fihrist, pp. 184 ff. This important work in
four volumes was composed at the request of a few pious mu'min
( in the Sht•ite meaning of the word, that is, adepts of the Holy
Imams ) .  It does not claim to be a technical work; nonetheless,
it does contain the essential points of the doctrine, very clearly
set forth. It has been reedited several times and is current read­
ing in Shaikhl circles. It has been somewhat enlarged in the
work of Shaikh Sarkir Aghi, a chapter of which we translate
in Art. XI, below.
2. Here, no doubt in order to simplify the exposition, the schema
of the four bodies, as it was given to us in the previous passages
of Shaikh Abroad Ahsi'l, has been abridged. Here the essential
archetypal body, or "Hurqalyan body," combines the functions
of what was presented as jasad B and jiam B, whereas the
material or accidental body combines the functions of jasad A
and jiam A.
3. Cf. the last passage from Shaikh Abmad quoted above, Art.
IX, 5.
4. This is the old Iranian word tan, whence in Pahlavi tan i pasen,
the word which, in Mazdean eschatology, designates the "body
to come" or resurrection body, which is hom at the moment
of the final consummation. We have already referred above
( Ch. I, n. 104 ) to the Mazdean idea of a "subtle physiology."
5. Here one should remember the theme of the api11itudo •Piri­
tualia (see above, Art. VI, the text of MuliA ௖adrA jn fin• ) .

Notes/pages 219-234
6. Regarding the notion of himma, see our $a/ism of Ibn 'Arabi,
pp. 222 ff.
7. As a rule, shirk is translated as the act of associating other gods
with the One; actually the term "dissociation" is just as appro­
priate. The tawlaid, as an act of unification, effects an integra­
tion. Consequently shirk involves a disintegration of being; and
that, as we saw earlier, is what Hell is.
8. What is in question here is not the active Imagination with
the paramount function previously ascribed to it, but "fantasy."
Regarding this all-important distinction, see again our $a/ism of
Ibn 'Arabi, pp. 216 ff.
9. Concerning the symbol of the arbor inversa, see the documents
studied by C. G. Jung in "The Philosophical Tree," pars. 410 ff.
10. See above, Art. IX, nn. 71, 72.
1 1. This concept thus justifies astral symbolism as a characterologi­
cal procedure. The Ismi'Ills also regard the astronomical
Heavens as homologous to the Heavens of the esoteric world.
Thus, the Heavens and the heavenly bodies are merely the
physical aspects of psycho-spiritual organs (see the passage
from Mulli Ðadri, above, Art. VI. That is why in this case they
represent factors or states of anthropogenesis ) .
12. Regarding the qualitative significance of the number 70, see
above, Art. IX, n. 36. A comparison could be made here with
the Ten Heavens and Eight Earths of Manicheism; cf. also with
what follows below.
13. Sijjan, the lnfernum, Qurin 83: 7-8; Safina I, 603; on the
Seven Earths, see Safina I, 19, 66 1.
14. The diagram reproduced here is an exact copy of the original.
The area indicated by the central diamond thus corresponds to
the state designated in Mazdean cosmology as "mixture"
(gumechisn ) .
15. Cf. the text of Mulli Ðadri (Art. VI, above ) and Swedenborg,
De Coelo et ejus mirabilibus, 156: "The things outside the
Angels assume an appearance corresponding to those which are
within them."
16. On the "esoteric" of each Heaven ( bil#n al-falak ) ,  see Mulli
Ðadri ( above, Art. VI ) ,  and see En Islam b:anien, m, 225.
17. Of course, here we should not take "soul" in the Cartesian sense
of the word, but as apiBBitudo apiritualis.
18. The remark of the lmim alludes to verse 4: 7 1  in the Qurin,
which we are translating here as required by Shrite herme­
neutics; see Safina, n, 1 8  (quoting a Tafair attributed to the
Fifth lmim ) .

Notes/ Article XI
19. An allusion to verse SS : SS which, in Shl'ite hermeneutics, sa­
cralizes the Prophet's family. Professing Islam, being a Muslim,
still does not confer the quality of a mu'mim, True Faithful;
the latter implies devotion to and love for the Fourteen Very­
Pure.
20. Nafs-i qudsi-yi kulli: sacrosancta Anima generalis.
2 1 .  It goes without saying that all these expressions should be
understood in the psycho-spiritual sense suggested from the
very beginning of this book by such terms as the "Heavens of
your being," the "Hells of your being," in the same way as
Simnanl, when he interiorizes the science of prophecy, speaks
of the "seven prophets of your being." ( See our book cited above,
n. 16. )
22. Readers should remember the distinction made at the beginning
between paradisic Abodes, which are such by right of priority,
and those which are such by derivation. These lines introduce
a description of the latter.
2S. This motif of the well is a classic example of gnostic anthro­
pology (Mandeism, Suhrawardl, Najmuddln, Kubra ) .
24. All the Shi'ite fervor bursts forth in this last page. The parousia
of the Imam is awaited as the reign of spiritual liberty, the
advent of the Paraclete. But in this eschatology there is still
the consciousness that the occultation of the Imam results from
the fact that men have become incapable of seeing him, and
that the parousia of the hidden Imam presupposes first of all
the disoccultation of their hearts. Otherwise they would not
even recognize him, and that is why, in Shrite esotericism, it
is obligatory not to talk about him to anyone incapable of
recognizing him.
ARTICLE XI
SHAIKH ABU'L-Q.ASIM KHAN IBR.AH'iMI
I .  The chapter extracted from this considerable work forms a
commentary on the text of Mul). Karim Khan Kirmani in Art.
x, above. The selection was a result of a quite inept question
by a person who, not understanding much of mystical theosophy
( 'irfan ) ,  did not understand the relation established between
the world of Hurqalya and the epiphany of the hidden Imam.
This chapter is the most suitable to conclude our choice of text.'l;
all the overtones of HurqulyA that sound in Shi'ite piety nrc to
b௕ henrd hօrt'. The limitations of our book prr.vent us from
doing ju11ticr to it.
:J2H

Notes/pages 234-257
2. Intelligence, of course, refers to the first hypostasis (Nofls or
Ennoia) .  The !aadith that relates it to the "Mu):lammadan Light"
(the primordial spiritual entity of the Prophet) offers nu­
merous variations, all of which bore fruit in the meditation of
the mystics.
3. Therefore, it is not a question here of perishable "matter" as
opposed to "spirit," but of spissitudo spiritualis-"spiritual mat­
ter" consubstantial with every being (cf. the idea of Nafas ai­
Rafamtin in Ibn •Arabi) .
4. The "cosmic liturgy" celebrated by the Intelligence forms a
theme well developed also in Isma'III gnosis ( Nֆir-i Khus­
raw, Abu Ya•qub Sijistanl ) ;  see our $ufism of Ibn •Arabi, pp.
105 ff. (the "prayer of the heliotrope" in Proclus ) .
5 .  That is, separated from perishable and corruptible "material
matter," while possessing their own consubstantial and incor­
ruptible "spiritual matter."
6. The logoi spermatikoi; see above, Art. IX, n. 1 1; Safina, 1 ,  482;
Mu):l. Karim Khan Kirmanl, Kitiib al-fu,al, 236; cf. Plotinus,
Enneads, v.8. 13; VI.3.15, and passim.
7. Allusion to the preexistential choice, the decisive event of meta­
history; see above, Art. IX, nn. 7 1, 72.
8. On the pleroma of the Fourteen Very-Pure (the Twelve Imams
around the Prophet and Fatima ) forming the pleroma of the
liihut in Twelver Shl'ite theosophy, see above, Part One, Ch. u,
§ 1. Their manifestation in the world of the Malakat is referred
to here. Similarly, the theme of the "Earth of the world of the
Imperative," found at the beginning of this text of Sarkar Agha,
recalls the theme of Fapma as the supracelestial Earth of the
ltihat.
9. An idea very close to the endogenous time (zamdn anfusi ) of
Simnanl: each soul, each form, is its time (not of its time ) .
10. The fundamental importance of the comparison with the mirror
has already been noted here. It shows us how what is called
docetic metaphysics is in fact a theological critique of knowl­
edge. The spiritual cannot "be materialized" in the natural
world: the latter represents the surface of a mirror, nothing
more or less. Thus, material history is erased in favor of a
realism of the soul.
1 1 .  Cf. the theme of the "six Treasuries" in Shaikh A):lmad A):lsa'l
( above, Art. IX ) ;  on the concept of materia prima, see above,
n. 3.
12. This is the lrshiid at-•awtimm, several pages of which we have
translated above, Art. x.
1 3 . See above, p. 191, the text of Shaikh Abmad: "Its lower plane

Notes/ Article XI
borders on the convex surface of the Sphere of Spheres," when,
emerging from the physical and astronomical cosmos, one en­
ters the "eighth climate," the quarta dimemio.
14. On this theme of fundamental lmimology (presupposing the
isomorphism of all the planes of the universe ) ,  see above, Part
One, Ch. II, § 1.
15. See ibid., for one sees in these lines how the theme of Hurqalyi
and the Shrite faith are linked. At the same time as the theme
of the "companions of the hidden ImAm" there reappears, in a
new octave, the Zoroastrian theme of the "companions of the
Saoshyant"; this takes place thanks to the entire individual ethic
of the Shl'ite adepts. Each of them is in a relationship to the
hidden Imam ( in Hurqalya, on the "green island," and so on )
analogous to the relationship of one of the hundred and twenty­
four thousand Nabls to the Prophet. On this Ecclesia spiritualis,
see our book En Islam iranien, I, 35, 1 19, 132, and IV, 275-
445. The theme should also be related to the theme of the
Watchers of al-A'raf, the "men of the Invisible world" dwelling
in the country of Ttl?& ( above, Art. IV ) .
16. We have already encountered here descriptions relating to the
inhabitants of the Var of Yima or of the cities of Hurqalya
( above, Part One, Ch. 1, § 2 in fine, and Ch. II, § 2 ) .  The
present context emphasizes further that they must be considered
as a phenomenology-that is, as a description of the outer things
which are the apparentiae reales of inner states. As previously
suggested, a fruitful comparison with Swedenborg's descrip­
tions could be attempted.
17. The first work cited is the work of Mu}:l. Khan Kirmanl, Third
successor to Shaikh A}:lmad (d. 1324/ 1906 ) .  The Bi!Jar al­
Anwar is the great Shl'ite encyclopedia of Majlisl, cited here
many times. The traditions about Jabalqi and JabaJla are in
Vol. XIV, 78-87.
18. Ibid., p. 80, lines 23-26.
19. This refers to the author's own father, MawlinA Zaynal-'Abidln
KhAn KirmAnl (d. 1361/1942 ) ,  Fourth successor of Shaikh
A}:lmad; for the work in question, see Fihrist, p. 449 (the tenth
treatise of the collection described ) .
20. Bi!J4r al-Anwar, XIV, 8 1-82 (p. 8 1 :  theme of the emerald,
which is known to symbolize the cosmic Soul for the վufls ) .
2 1 .  The plural "We" designates the pleroma of the Twelve ImAms,
in the name of which each ImAm speaks-here, the ImAm
Ja•far l;JAdiq. One sees that the humanity described in these
lineR is that of the archetypal lmAmites, centered on the ImAms
88 co11mogonlc nod soteriologic thenpluml"• ·

Notes/pages 258-267
22. In these lines there is an explicit and stirring demand by the
Imam himself for the esotericism which is imposed on faith
and on Shl'ite beliefs.
2:J. This detail suffices to show that the eschatological descriptions,
the final battle in which the mystical Knights surrounding the
Imam participated, should not be understood as data concern­
ing material events. They translate events taking place now "in
Hurqalya."
24. This accords with the remark attributed to Jagir Kurdl, one of
the Shaikhs of Ruzbihan of Shlriz (d. 605 I 1209 ) : "He has
given me a two-edged blade, one for the East, the other for the
West; if I pointed it toward the mountains, the high peaks
would collapse." See our introduction to the book of Ruzbihan,
Le Jasmin des Fidlles d'amour, p. 52.
25. For there is no common measure between zaman anfusi, endog­
enous qualitative time, and zaman afaqi, quantitative physical
time.
26. This number "encodes" the duration of an astronomical cycle;
seven heptads of millennia, each governed respectively by one
of the seven planets. It should therefore be taken, as the author
suggests, as essentially a symbol of purely Htlrqalyiivi duration.
27. That is, in the text translated above, Art. x, 2, and commented
on in the present chapter. The symmetry between the config­
urations of the theme has already been noted: Here the "trans­
portation" upwards to Hurqalyi; the descent of the "Abode of
hymns" ( Gar6tman ) to encounter the Earth, in Mazdean escha­
tology; the descent of the celestial Jerusalem, in the Apocalypse;
see above, Part One, Ch. 1, n. 128.
28. On the touching figure of the Eleventh lmim, l:lasan 'Askarl,
father of the "hidden lmim," who died at the age of twenty­
eight (in 260/873 ) ,  see our study "Le Douziɱme ImAm" in
En Islam iranien, IV, 301-460. The episode narrated here
refers to the annoyances inflicted on him by the 'Abbisid Caliph.
29. On this treatise, see above, n. 19.
SO. On this qualification of the hidden Imam, see our study cited
above, n. 28.
Sl. An allusion to the theme of the sodalitas spiritualis which, with
the tawfaid, prophetology, and lmimology, is one of the "four
pillars" of the Shrite Shaikhl teaching.
32. This is one of the oldest symbols of Shrite gnosis. The alchemist
Jibir ibn l:layyan already saw the "sun rising in the West" as
the symbol of the Imam, the inaugurator of a new cycle.
33 1

LIST OF WORKS CITED
Acts of John. See JAMES, The Apocryphal New Testament.
Acts of Peter. See JAMES, The Apocryphal New Testament.
Acts of Thomas. See JAMES, The Apocryphal New Testament; this
is the source of the "Song of the Pearl," which is the same as
the "Hymn of the Soul."
AFFI FI, A. E. (ABU'L-'ALA.' 'AFFi FI ) ,  ed. Fu,č al-laikam. 2 vols.
Cairo, 1365/ 1946. ( Fu,a, I =  Ibn 'Arabi's text; Fu,č II =
Affifii's commentary. )
AcA-O௔Lu, MEHMET. "The Landscape Miniatures of an Anthology
Manuscript of the Year 1398 A.D.," Ars lslamica, III, pt. I
( 1936 ) ,  77-98.
AcHA. BuzuRG ( SHAIKH ) .  Dhari'a. 20+ vols. Teheran.
AI;ISA'I, ( SHAIKH ) AI;IMAD. Commentary on the Kittlb al-faikma
al-'arshlya of Ðadruddin Shirazi. Tabrtz, 1278/ 186 1 .
Jawtlmi' al-kalim. 2 vols. Tabriz, 1273-1276/ 1856/ 1859.
--. Kittlb sharfa al-ziytlra, II. 2 vols. Tabriz, 1276/ 1859.
--. ai-Ristlla al-khtlqtlnlya. (This part of his Jawtlmi' al-
kalim. )
ARDABILI, ØAFIUDDIN. $afwat al-,aftl'. Bombay, 19 1 1 .
BACHOFEN, JoHAN N  JAKOB. Das Mutterrecht: Eine Untersuchung
iiber die Gynaikokratie der a/ten Welt nach ihrer religiosen und
rechtliclzen Natur. Stuttgart, 186 1. (See Gesammelte Werke.
Ed. Karl Meuli. Basel, 1943-. )
BADAWI, 'ABD AL-RAI;IMAN. ldeae platonicae. Cairo, 1367/ 1947.
BAI LEY, HARO LD WALTER. "Iranian Studies III," Bulletin of the
School of Oriental Studies, VII ( 1933-1935 ) ,  275-298.
--. Zoroastrian Problems in the Ninth-Century Books. Oxford,
1943.
BENVENISTE, £MILE. "L'Erfm-vez et l'origine Iegendaire des lrani­
ens," Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, VII ( 1933-
1935 ) '  265-27 4.
BIDEZ, JosEPH, and CuMONT, FRANZ. Les Mages hellenises: Zoro­
astre, Ostanes et Hystape d'apres Ia tradition grecque. 2 vols.
Paris, 1938.
BIRUNI, ABO RAYI;IAN. Kittlb al-tafhim, ed. Humayt. Teheran,
13 1 8/ 1900.
BoussET, WILHELM. Hauptprobleme der Gnosis. ( Forschungen zur
Religion und Literatur des Alten und Neuen Testaments, 10. )
Gottingen, 1907.

Works Cited
BoussET, WILHELM. Die Religion des Judentums im spiithellenis­
tischen Zeitalter, ed. Hugo Gressmann. 3rd edn., Tiibingen,
1926.
BRANDT, A.J.H. WILHELM. Die mandiiische Religion. Leipzig,
1889.
Bundahishn. The "great Bundahishn," an unedited MS, is cited in
part in Nyberg, "Questions," I, q.v. The "small Bundahishn" is
tr. in West, Pahlavi Texts, pt. I, pp. 3-151. Unless further
identified, references are to the great Bundahishn.
CORBIN, HENRY, tr. and ed. L'Archange empourpre, by Shaykh
al-Ishraq Sohravardl ( =Suhrawardl ) .  Paris, 1976. ( Fifteen
treatises and mystical recitals, translated from the Persian and
Arabic, annotated. )
--. Avicenna and the Visionary Recital; tr. Willard R. Trask,
New York (Bollingen Series LXVI ) and London, 1960. ( Orig. :
Avicenne et le recit visionnaire. 2 vols. Teheran and Paris,
1952, 1 954. Bibliothɱque iranienne 4-5. )
--. Creative Imagination in the $afiam of Ibn •Arabi, tr. Ralph
Manheim. Princeton ( Bollingen Series XCI ) and London,
1969. ( Orig.: L'Imagination creatrice dans le Soufisme d'Ibn
•Arabi, Paris, 1958. )
--. "Cyclical Time in Mazdaism and Ismailism." In: Man and
Time ( Papers from the Eranos Year books 3 ) , pp. 1 15-172.
New York ( Bollingen Series XXX ) and London, 1957.
--. "De Ia Gnose antique Γ Ia gnose ismaelienne," Atti del Xll"
Congresso Volta, Accad. Naz. dei Lincei. Rome, 1956.
--. "Divine Epiphany and Spiritual Rebirth in Ismailian
Gnosis." In: Man and Transformation (Papers from the Eranos
Yearbooks 5 ) ,  pp. 69-160. New York (Bollingen Series XXX )
and London, 1964.
--. En Islam iranien: aspects spirituels et philosophiques.
( BibliotMque des Idees. ) Vol. I, Le Shi'isme duodecimain;
Vol. II, Sohravardi et lea Platoniciens de Perse; Vol. III, Les
Fidiles d'amour. Shi'isme et soufisme; Vol. IV, L':£cole d'Ispa­
han; L':£cole Shaykhie; Le Douziime Imam; index general.
Paris, 197 1-1972.
--. £tude preliminaire pour le "Livre reunisaant des deux
aagesses" de NO,fir-e Khosraw. Teheran and Paris, 1953. (Bib­
liothɱque iranienne 3a. )
--. L'Homme de lumiire dana le aoufisme iranien. Paris, 197 1 .
--. "Le 'Livre du Glorieux' de JAbir ibn l:layyln: alchimie et
archetypes," Eranos Jahrbuch, XVIII/ 1 950, 47-1 14.
--, ed. CEuvre11 philoaophique11 et my1tiqut1 de SohrawardJ, I

Works Cited
( = Opera metaphyaica et Myatica, II ) .  Teheran and Paris,
1952. (Biblioth̓que iranienne 2. ) ( Contains: Kitiib (aikmat
al-iahriiq [Book of Oriental Theosophy]; Kitiib i'tiqad al­
(aukamii' [The Symbol of the Philosophers' Faith]; Qiffat iJ.l­
ghurba al-gharblya [Recital of the Occidental Exile]. )
--, ed. Opera metaphysica et mystica, I. Istanbul, 1945. ( Bib­
liotheca lslamica 16. ) ( Contains the metaphysics of Kitiib al­
talwi(aiit [Book of Elucidations], Kitiib al-muqiiwamiit [Book
of Oppositions], Kitiib Mashiiri' wa'l-Muliirahiit [Book of Con­
versations]. )
--, tr. Pand Niimak i Zartusht ( The Book of Counsels of
Zartusht, tr. from the Pahlavi ) .  In: Poure Dauoud Memorial
Volume II. Bombay, 195 1.
--. See also ROZBIHAN BAQLI SHIRAZI; SuHRAWARDI, SHIHA­
BUDDIN YAI;IYA.
Corpus hermeticum. Text established by A. D. Nock. Tr. A.-J. Festu­
gi̓re. 4 vols. Paris, 1945-1954.
CuMoNT, FRANZ. "Les Anges du paganisme," Revue de fhiBtoire des
religions, LXXII ( 19 15 ) ,  159-182.
--.• See also BIDEZ, JosEPH, and CuMONT, FRANZ.
DARMESTETER, JAMES, tr. Le Zend-Avesta. 3 vols. Paris, 1892-
1 893. (Annales du Guimet, 2 1-22, 24. )
DiitiBtiin-i-Dlnlk. In: West, E. W., tr., Pahlaui Texts, II, 1-276.
DEFFONTAINEs, PIERRE. "The Religious Factor in Human Geog­
raphy: Its Force and Its Limits," Diogenes, II ( Spring, 1953 ) ,
24-37.
DtNKART. In: West, E. W., tr., Pahlaui Te:cta, Parts IV and V.
DRoWER, .ETHEL STEFANA. "Hibil Ziwa and the Parthian Prince,"
Journal of the Royal Aaiatic Society, 1954, pts. 3-4, pp. 152-
156.
--.. The Mandaeans of Iraq and Iran. Oxford, 1937.
ELIADE, MIRCEA. The Forge and the Crucible. Tr. Stephen Corrin.
London and New York, 1962. ( Orig.: Forgerons et alchimiates,
Paris, 1956. )
--. Images and Symbola: Studiea in Religious Symbolism. Tr.
Philip Mairet. New York and Paris, 196 1. ( Orig.: Images et
Symbolea: EBBaiB aur le aymboliame magico-religieu:c, Paris,
1952. )
--. The Myth of the Eternal Return. Tr. Willard R. Trask.
New York (Bollingen Series XLVI ) and London, 1954. ( Orig.:
Le Mythe de Nternel retour: Archltypea et rlpltition, Paris,
1949. )
--. Patterns in· Comparative Religion. Tr. Rosemary Sheed.

Works Cited
London and New York, 1958. ( Orig. : Traite d'hi8toire des
religions, Paris, 1964. )
The Encyclopaedia of Islam. Ed. M. Th. Houtsma, T. W. Arnold,
R. Basset, R. Hartmann, et al. 4 vols. and suppl. Leiden and
London, 1913-1938.
FECHNER, GusTAV THEODOR. Ober die Seelenfrage. Ein Gang
durch die sichtbare Welt, um die unsichtbare zu finden. Leip­
zig, 1861; 2nd edn., Hamburg and Leipzig, 1907.
Fihri8t. See lbriihlml.
The Gospel According to Thomas. Ed. and tr. Antoine Guillaumont
et al. New York and Leiden, 1959.
GRAY, Louis H. The Foundations of the Iranian Religions. Bombay,
1925.
GRESSMANN, HuGo. "Das religiongeschichtliche Problem des Urs­
prungs der hellenistischen Erlosungsreligion," Zeitschrift fur
Kirchengeschichte, XLI ( 1922 ) ,  154-180.
HASTINGs, JAMES, ed. Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics. 13 vols.
Edinburgh and New York, 1 908-1926.
HEIMANN, BETTY. Indian and Western Philosophy, a Study in Con­
trasts. London, 1937.
HERTEL, JoHAN NES. Die awesti8chen Herrschafts- und Siegesfeuer.
Leipzig, 193 1.
HERZFELD, ERNST EMI L, ed. Archiiologische Mitteilungen aus Iran,
II. Berlin, 1930.
--. Zoroaster and His World. 2 vols. Princeton, 1947.
HERZOG, JoHAN N  JAKOB, ed. Realencyklopiidie fur protestantische
Theologie und Kirche. 3rd edn., 24 vols. Leipzig, 1896-1913.
See VI ( 1899 ) ,  XVIII ( 1906 ) .
Hildegarde of Bingen. Physica.
"Hymn of the Soul." See Acts of Thomas.
IBN 'ARABI, Mui;IYIDDI N. Futfll! al-Šikam, ed. A. E. Affifi. 2 vols.
Cairo, 1365/ 1946. (Futfll! I = Ibn 'Arabi text; FutUIJ II =
Affifi's commentary. )
--. Kitab al-futtlŠat al-Makkiya fi ma'rifat al-asrar al-maliklya
wa'l-mulkiya. 4 vols. Cairo, 1329/ 1 9 1 1 .
(attributed ) .  Tafsir al-Qur'an. Cairo, 1 3 1 7/ 1 899-1900.
IBRAH IMI, (SHAI KH )
ABu'I.-QASIM KHAN
( SARKAR AGH A ) .
Fihrist. KirmAn, 1329/ 1 9 1 1.
--. Tanzlh al-awliy4'. KirmAn, 1367/ 1947.
JAcKsoN, ABRAHAM VAI.ENTI NJo: WI LLI AMS. Zoroaster, the Prophet
of Ancient Iran. 5th edn. ,  New York, 1 938.
JAMF.s, MoN'J'AC:IIF. RHom:s. The Apocryphal New Testament. Ox­
ford, 1 960.

Works Cited
JAMES, MoNTAGUE RHODEs, and RYLE, HERBERT EDWARD, eds.
Old Te1tament Apocryphal Book1: The P1alm1 of Solomon.
Cambridge, 189 1.
JILl, 'ABD AL-KARIM. Kitiib al-imiin al-kiimil. Cairo, 1304/ 1886-
1887.
JuNe, CARL GusTAV. My1terium Coniunctionil, tr. R.F.C. Hull.
( The Collected Works of C. G. Jung, 14. ) New York ( Bollin­
gen Series XX ) and London, 1963. 2nd edn., Princeton and
London, 1970.
--.. "Paracelsus as a Spiritual Phenomenon," in Alchemical
Studie1, tr. R.F.C. Hull. (The Collected Works of C. G. Jung,
13. ) Princeton ( Bollingen Series XX ) and London, 1967.
Pp. 109-189.
--.. "The Philosophical Tree," in Alchemical Studie1, tr. R.F.C.
Hull. (The Collected Works of C. G. Jung, 13. ) Princeton
( Bollingen Series XX ) and London, 1967. Pp. 25 1-349.
--. P1ychology and Alchemy, tr. R.F.C. Hull. (The Collected
Works of C. G. Jung, 12. ) New York ( Bollingen Series XX )
and London, 1953; 2nd edn., rev., Princeton, 1968.
JusTI, FERDINAND. Der Bundehe1h. Zum er1ten Male herawgege­
ben, tramcribiert, uber1etzt und mit Glo11ar ver1ehen. Leipzig,
1 868.
KAsHANI, MUI;ISIN FAYͻ. Kalimiit maknana. Lithograph, Teheran,
1216/1801; Bombay, 1296/ 1878.
--.• Taflir al-Jiifi, Teheran, 1275/ 1858.
KIRMANI, (SHAIKH I;IAJ J )  Mui;IAMMAD KARIM KHAN. Irshid
al-'awimm. 3rd edn., 4 vols. in 2. Kirmin, 1353-1355/ 1934-
1936.
lflii?a al-aj1iid. Manuscript.
[flii?a al-aͼ. Manuscript.
l•lilJ al-nufas. Manuscript.
Kitab al-tu,al. Kirman, 1354/ 1935-1936.
Mir"iit al-llikma.
--. Riliila-yi na,iriya. Kirmin, 1375/ 1955.
Riliila-yi IUlliiniya. Bombay, 1860.
Rildla-yi ydqatiya.
KRAMERs, JoHAN NES HENDRIK. The Dalni in the Giithiil. Oriental
Studies in Honour of Dasturji Saheb Cursetji Erachji Pavry,
January 1934. Reprinted in: Analecta Orientalia, I, 225-23 1.
Leiden, 1954.
KRAUS, PAU L. Studien zu Jiibir ibn IJayyiin. 2 vols. Cairo, 1942-
1943.
LAHIJI, 'ADD AL-RAzZAQ. Gawhar-i muriid. Teheran, 1313/1895.

Works Cited
LAHIJI, SHAMSUDDIN MUI;IAMMAD. Commentary on the Gulshan-i
riiz of Mabmud Shabistarl. ( Edn. of Kayvin Samn. ) Teheran,
1378/1958.
LEISEGANG, HANS. La Gnose, tr. J. Gouillard. Paris, 195 1 .  ( Orig.:
Die Gnosis, Leipzig, 1924. )
LIDZBARSKI , MARK, ed. and tr. Das Johannesbuch der Mardii.er.
Giessen, 19 15; repr. Berlin, 1966.
MAETERLINCK, MAuRICE. "Le Vieux qui ne veut pas mourir." In:
L'Autre Monde, ou Le Cadran stellaire. New York, 1942.
MAJ LISI, Mui;IAMMAD BAQIR. Bi(atir al-anwtir. 14 vols. Teheran,
1305/ 1887-1888.
MAMAQANI, 'ABo ALLAH. Tanqi(a al maqtil fi. a(awtil al-rijtil. 3 vols.
Najaf, 1349-1352/ 1930-1933.
MASSIGNON, Lours. "Comment ramener l une base commune
l'etude textuelle de deux cultures: l'arabe et Ia greco-latine."
In: Lettres d'humaniU, II, 122-140. Paris, 1943.
--. La Mubtihala de Medine et fhyperdulie de Fd#ma. Paris,
1955.
--. "La Notion du vտu et Ia devotion musulmane l Fipma."
In: Studi orientalistici in onore di Giorgio Levi della Vida. 2
vols. Rome, 1956. Pp. 102-126.
MEIER, FRITZ. "Die Welt der Urbilder bei 'All Hamadii.nl ( t 1385 ) "
Eranos Jahrhuch, XVIII/ 1950, 1 15-172.
M!NOK£-XRAT. In West, E. W., tr., Pahlavi Texts, Part III, pp.
1-1 13. ( Same as: Mainyo-i-Khard and Mainog-i-Khirad. )
MESSI NA, GIUSEPPE, ed. and tr. Libro apocalittico persiano Ayatkdr
i :Zii.mdspik. Rome, 1939.
--. I Magi a Betlemme e una predizione di Zoroastro. Rome,
1933.
Moor ,  JrvANJI JAMSHEDJI. The Religious Ceremonies and Customs
of the Parsees. 2nd ed., Bombay, 1937.
Mui;ISIN FAvz. See Kishii.nl, Mul;lsin Fayր.
Mo'IN [Mu'IN], Mui;fAMMAD, ed. Burhii.n-i qti!i' by 'All ibn Mul;lam­
mad Tabiȗabi'l. 5 vols. Teheran, 1371-1376/ 195 1-1956; IV,
1376/ 1956.
--. The Philosophy of Illumination and the Ancient Iranian
Culture. Teheran, 1370/ 1950. In Persian.
--. See also Ruzbihan Baqll Shirazi.
MoN N ERET J>F. VI LLARD, UGo. Le Pitture muaulmane al •of!ito della
Cappella Palatina in Palermo. Rome, 1950.
MoRF. , HE N RY. Enchiridion metaphyaicum. London, 1 671.
Mom.To N ,  J A M E S  HorF.. "It Is His Angel," The Journal of Theo­
logical Studie•, Ill ( 1 902 ) .
M 1 1 1 .1.A !A URA. Sr.r. Su l aAzl !A I>RIIUUI N .
:J:JH

Works Cited
NYBERG, HENRIK SAMUEL. Hilfsbuch des Pehlevi. 2 vols. Vol. I,
Uppsala, 1928; Vol. II, Glossary, Uppsala and Leipzig, 193 1 .
--. Kleinere Schriften des Ibn al-'Arabi. Leiden, 19 19.
--. "Questions de cosmogonie et de cosmologie mazd©ennes,"
Journal aaiatique ( Paris ) ,  CCXIV: 2 ( April-June, 1929 ) ,
193-3 10. ( Cited as "Questions," I. )
--.. Die Religionen des alten Iran. Gennan tr. H. H. Schaeder.
Leipzig, 1938. ( Mitteilungen der Vorderasiatisch-aegyptischen
Gesellschaft, 4.3. )
Odea of Solomon. See James, Montague Rhodes, and Ryle, Herbert
Edwards, eds.
Pand Namak i Zartuaht. See CoRBIN, HENRY, tr.
PASCHERi JosEF. Der Konigaweg zu Wiedergeburt und Vergottung
bei Philon v. Alexandreia. Paderbom, 193 1.
PAvRY, JAL DASTUR CuRSETJI. The Zoroastrian Doctrine of a Fu­
ture Life from Death to th.e Individual Judgment. 2nd edn.,
New York, 1929.
The Peraian Rivayata of Hormazyar Framarz, the Saddar Bundehesh.
Bombay, 1932.
PHILO JunAEUS. De aomniia. In: Philo, ed. F. H. Colson and G. H.
Whitaker. Vol. V. Cambridge, Mass., 1934., pp. 285-579.
( LCL. )
PLOTI NUS. The Ennead&. Tr. Stephen MacKenna, rev. B. S. Page.
London and New York, 1956.
PLUTARCH. laia and Oairia. In: Plutarch's Moralia, tr. F. C. Babbitt.
Vol. V, Cambridge, Mass., 1936, pp. 3-19 1 .  ( LCL. )
PooRTMAN , JoHAN NES JACOBUS. Okhlma, Geachiedenia en zin van
het hyliach pluraliame. 2 vols. Assen, 1954.-1958.
PoRPHYRY [PoRPHYRIUS]. De antro nympharum. In: Opuacula Se­
lecta, ed. A. Nauck. Leipzig, 1886.
PRocl.us. The Element& of Theology, ed. and tr. Eric Robertson
Dodds. 1933.
QAYûARI, DA'On. Commentary on the Ftlf(lf al-(likam of Ibn 'Arabi.
Bombay, 1881 and 1882.
QuMMI, 'ABBAs. Saflnat al-bi(ltJ al-anwdr. 2 vols. Najaf, 1352-
1354./ 1934.-1937.
HAHNER, HuGo. "Die seelenheilende Blume. Moly und Mandragore
in antiker und christlicher Symbolik," Eranoa Jahrbuch, XII/
194.5, 1 17-239.
lUzi, FAKHRUDDIN. MaftJtlla al-ghayb. 8 vols. Istanbul, 1307-
1308/ 1 889-1890.
REITZENSTEIN, RICHARD. "Gedanken zur Entwicklung des ErlO&er­
glaubens," Hiatoriache Zeitachrift, CXXVI ( 1922 ) ,  1-57.
Daa iraniache Erloaunga-myaterium. Bonn, 192 1 .

Works Cited
REITZENSTEIN ,  RICHARD, and ScHAEDER, HANS HEINRICH. Stu­
dien zum antiken Synkretismus aus Iran und Griechenland.
Leipzig, 1926. ( Studien der Bibliothek Warburg, VII. )
RINGBORN, LARS-IVAR. Graltempel und Paradies. Stockholm, 195 1.
( Kungl. vitterhets historie och antikvitets akademiens hand­
lingar, 73. )
RosENBERG, FREDERIC, ed. and tr. Le Livre de Zoroastre (Zarii­
tusht-Niima) de Zartusht-i Bahram ibn Pajda. St. Petersburg,
1914.
ROZBIHAN, BAQLI SHIRAZI. 'Arii' is al-bayiin. 2 vols. 1301/1883.
--,, Le Jasmin des Fideles d'amour (K. 'Abhar at-•Ashiqln).
Traite de Sou/i8me en persan, ed. and tr. Henry Corbin and
Mu]:l. Mo'In. Teheran and Paris, 1958. ( Bibliotheque irani­
enne 8. )
Saddar Bundehesh. In: The Persian Rivayats (q.v. ) .
Safina. See QuMMI, 'ABBAS.
SARKAR AGHA.. See lbriihlmi.
ScHAEDER, HANS HEINRICH. See REITZENSTEIN, RICHARD, and
ScHAEDER, HANs HEINRICH.
SHABISTARi, MAI;IMOD. See LAHIJI, SHAMSUDDIN Mui;IAMMAD.
Shiiyast lii-shiiyast. In : West, E. R., tr. , Pahlavi Texts. Oxford,
1880, Part I, pp. 237-406.
SHIRAZI, QurnuDDIN MAI;IMOD. Shar/,l Uikmat al-ishriiq. Lit1o­
graph, Teheran, 13 15/1898.
SHIRAZI, ØADRUDDIN (MULLA ØADRA ) .  Kitiib al-/,likma al-'arshiya.
Teheran, 1315/1897.
SirtJza. In Darmesteter, tr. , Zend-Avesta, II. Siroza I, pp. 296-322,
Siroza II, pp. 323-330.
"Song of the Pearl." See Acts of Thomas.
SouRIAU, ETIENNE. L'ombre de Dieu. Paris, 1955.
SPIEGEL, FRIEDRICH, ed. Avesta, die heiligen Schriften der Parsen.
3 vols., Leipzig, 1 852-1 863; III, Khorda-Avesta, 1863.
STROTHMAN, RuDOLF, ed. Miziij al-tasnim.
SUHRAWARDI,
SHIHABUDDIN
YAI;IYA
(SHAIKH
AL-lsHRAQ ) .
(Euvres philosophiques et mystiques de Sohrawardi, II
( = Opera metaphysica et mystica, III ) Works in Persian, ed.
S. H. Nasr. Foreword by H. Corbin. Teheran and Paris, 1970.
( Bibliotheque iranienne, 17 ) .
--. See also CoRBIN, HENRY.
SwEDF.N BORG, EMANUEL. De Coelo et ejus mirabilibus § 156 (orig.
publ. in Latin, London, 1758 ) .  Tr. Rev. Samuel Noble, Heaven
and lt11 Wonders, The World of Spirits and Hell: From Things
Heard and Seen. New York, 1 864.
34.0

Works Cited
TABARI, Mui;IAMMAD IBN JARIR. Chronique de Abou-Djafar­
Mo•hammed-ben-Djarir-ben Yezid Tabari, tr. Hermann Zoten­
berg. 4 vols. Paris, 1867-1 874.
TABARsl, AL-FAJ?L IBN AL-I,IAsAN. Majma• al-baydn. Teheran,
1318/ 1 900.
TABRizl , M. A. Rayhdnat al-Adab, I.
VAJDA, GEORGES. "Les Notes d'Avicenne sur Ia 'TMologie d'Aris-
tote," ' Revue Thomiste, LI ( 195 1 ) ,  346-348.
Vendidad. In Darmesteter, tr., Zend-Avesta, II, 1-293.
Vispered. In Darmesteter, tr., Zend-Avesta, I, 443--492.
WENSINCK, ARENT JAN. The Muslim Creed. Cambridge, 1932;
repr. New York, 1966.
WEST, E. W., tr. Pahlavi Texts. 5 vols. Oxford, 1880-1897.
WIET, GASTON. Soieries persanes. ( Memoires de flnstitut d'Egypte,
Vol. 52. ) Cairo, 1367/ 1947.
WoLFSON , HARRY AusTRYN. Philo. Foundations of Religious Phi­
losophy in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. 2 vols. Cambridge,
Mass. , 1947.
YA.QOT IBN •ABD ALLAH, AL-}:IAMAWI. Mu•jam al-buldan. 10
vols. Cairo, 1345/ 1926.
THE YASHTS, In: Darmesteter, tr., Zend-Avesta, II, 33 1-683.
Yasna. In : Darmesteter, tr., Zend-Avesta, I, · 1--442.
Zat-Spram. In: West, E. R., tr., Pahlavi Texts, I.
ZELLER, EDWARD. Die Philosophie der Griechen. 3 vols. in 6 parts.
Leipzig, 1879-1892. III, pt. 2. 3rd edn., 1881.
ZIMMER, HEIN RICH. Philosophies of India, ed. Joseph Campbell.
New York ( Bollingen Series XXVI ) and London, 195 1 .

INDEX
abodes of light, 2SS
Abraham, 191
Abn Dharr, 258
AbQ'l-l;lasan Jilvah, 1 12
AbQ Sahl Tustarl, S04
Abn Yazld Bastlml, 167, SM
active Imagination, 12, IS, 2S-25,
26, 28, 76, 84, 88, 98, 127ft',
145, 148, 15 111, 154ft', 176,
2 10ft', 279 n 62, S25 n 65
Acts of John, of Peter, 298 n 5S;
of Thomas, 104, 295 n S2,
Sl2 n 7
Adam, 1S6-1S7, 2S7
Adamites, 61, 158
Aeon, SS, S4, 49; aeons, 59
Agathos Daimon, S5
Al;lmad A\lsA'I (Shaikh ) ,  58, 79,
89, 90ft', 1 14ft', 180-22 1, 254,
264, 266, 278 n 47, S26 n 2
Ahriman, 6, 19, 25, 47, 48,
272 n 7
Ahrmazd ( Avestan Ahura
Mazda) ,  6, 7, 8, 15, 16, !2S, S l ,
272 n 6, 277 n 46, 291 n 124
'4lam al-ghayb (world of Mystery,
suprasensory world ) ,  154ft', 19S
'dlam al-mith4l (world of Forms ) ,
alchemy, 21, 98-100, 102, 141,
180, 197-2 10, SOO n 69,
SOl n 72, S2S n 50, n 52
Alexander, 75ff, 257ff
•All ibn Abi-TAiib, l;la,rat Amlr,
first ImAm of Sht'iam, 62, 18S,
184, 205, 2S4, 241, 247, 252,
255, 257, SOl n 7!2
•Ali-FASima, 64ft'
• All HamadAnl, Mlr Sayyld,
!294 n 21, 5 1 6  n 5
•All ibn al-l;luaayn, fourth lmlm of
Sht'lam, 259
•All ibn IbrAhim of Quum, 189,
S20 n 14
'All Turkah lffahAn1, 296 n 45
Amahraspanda, archangels in
Zoroastrianism, 7, 8, 9, 25, Sl,
S4ff, 55, 272 n 6, 284 n 88
AmertAt (Amahraspand ) ,  Sl, S9,
androgyne, 47, 48, 29S n 14
Angel, alter ego, Perfect Nature,
idio1 daim௓n, 25, 29, S5, 42,
92, 102-IOS, 274 n 20, 278 n
47, n 48, 286 n 101, SI7 n IS
Angel of the Earth, 4ft', 54, 56;
angels of the Earth, 29, SO
angelology: Mazdean, 4ff, 9ff, SO,
Sl, S7, S9ff, 52, 1 10, 288 n
I05; neoplatonic, 6, 9; 1ee also
Dii Angeli
anima, 4I, 67-68
•AnqA (the bird ) ,  xvii
apparentiae reale1, I02, ISO, lSI,
!2SO
A'rAf (al- ) ,  150, 151, 2 1 1  n 16,
SSO n 15
arbor inver1a, 225, S27 n 9
archangels, 1ee Amahraspands
archetype-Angels, Angels of
species, 55
archetype-Images, 4, 1 1 ,  2S, 25,
29, 81, ISS, 172, 196, 198,
!200, 2 18; world of, 12, 50, 5S,
76, 79, 8!2-8S, 122, 126-lSO,
ISS, 146, 160, 174-176, 190,
240ff, 255ff; 1ee al1o ban:akh,
mundru imtginalil archetypw
Ardvt SllrA AnAhitA, angel·
goddess of the celestial Waters,
IS, 26ff, 29, 32, S7, 48ff,
277 n 46, 286 n 96, 287 n 104
Aristotle, 84, 1 19, SQ4. n 2
ArahtAt, 27ff, S7, 45-46, 289 n
1 16
Arta-Vahishta ( Artvahisht,
Ordtbehesht ) , Amahraspand,
8, 31, 273 n lS
S4S

Index
ArtAi-Fravart, 285 n 90
Ashi Vanuhi, 32, 37, 40, 43-45,
277 n 46, 286 n 96, 288 n 105,
289 n 1 12
Ashkevart ( Qutbuddtn ) , 69
•Attar (Fartduddtn ) ,  279 n 59,
291 n 123
Avesta, 3, 5, 7, 283 n 77
Avicenna, 75-76, 291 n 120
Avicennan cosmology, 8 1 ,  280 n
68, 283 n 8 1
Awl,laduddtn KirmAnt, 140,
3 10 n 12
AyAtkAn-i ZhAmasptk, 272 n 6
Azerbaijan, 2 1
Azrael ( archangel ) , 65
Badawt, 'A., 295 n 26
Bahram Varjavand, eschatological
hero, 70, 29 1 n 126
BAmyll, 280 n 64
barzakh (interval, interworld ) ,
80ff, 130ff, 142, 144ff, 152ff,
1 72ff, 187, 190, 19 1ff, 245ff,
263, 307 n 22; double, 147ff,
16 1ff, 1 76ff
Behnam, Issa, xvii
Berleberg (circle ) , xiii
Birnnt, 20 fig. 2, 275 n 38,
277 n 42
Bodhisattvas, 14
bodies: jasad and jiam, 180-182;
body of diamond, 100, 203,
301 n 73; body of the world
beyond, 166ff, 229-230;
resurrection body, 12, 34, 37,
84; primordial bodies, 247, 248;
spiritual body, 77, 84, 86, 100,
207-209; subtle body of light,
34, 127, 132, 307 n 1 9 ; see also
jasad A and jism A (accidental
bodies ) ,  jasad 8 and jism 8
( essential bodies )
Roehme, J ., xiii
Hoethim•, 93
hotnny, Rncred, 3 1
RuclclhiRm, 271\ n 39
nunclnhiRhn, Mnzcll'lnn Rook nf
Genesis, 14, 25ff, 272 n 1 1 ,
274 n 20, 2 7 7  n 46, 280 n 65;
see also List of works cited
Cambridge Neoplatonists, 93;
Cambridge and Persian
Platonists, 1 64
caro spiritualis, ix; see also
jasad B
Caucasus, 75
celestial princes, 123, 126
center of origin, 19ff, 23
Chakad-i-Dattik (the peak of
judgment ) ,  27
·
Chinvat (bridge ) ,  27ff, 36, 41ff,
44, 74, 287 n 104
Chisti, 37, 43ff, 289 n 106, n 107
Christensen, A., 291 n 121
christology, 58, 3 1 3  n 18,
3 1 8  n 1 1
cities of light (the thirteen ) ,  141
Climate: the Eighth, 50, 75ff,
126ff, 191, 240, 294 n 24;
of the soul, 82; the Seven, 17
cognitio matutina, 85, 304 n 3
coincidentia oppositorum, 80, 100,
142, 324 n 55
column: of dawn, 120ff, 296 n 45,
305 n 4; of praise, 305 n 4
Companions: of the hidden ImAm,
xiv, 70ff, 258, 260, 3 1 9  n 12,
330 n 15; of the Saoshyant,
291 n 126
com-presence, 149ff, 152-153,
3 12 n 3
corporeity, 24 7
corpus hermeticum, 92
creative imperative ( world of the ) ,
241, 244, 248, 254
Cudworth, R., 164
cycle: of initiation, 58, 3 15 n 29;
of cosmogenesis, 7 1 ,  236ff;
of prophecy, 58, 236ff, 3 15 n 29
Daenll ( Dtn ) ,  xiv, 15ff, 2R, 29,
30, 32, 35, 36, 38, 40-44, 45,
5 1 ,  92, 1 04, 2R:J n R2, 284 n
R7, 2R7 n 1 02

Index
DaJ.tya al-Kalbi, 1S2, 142, 177,
190, 194
Daitl (the river ) ,  SS, S4,
282 n 76
Daniel's vision, 69
DarA Shiknh, 1 1 S
Datisttin-i-dinlk, 280 n 65,
29 1 n 124
DA'ild Qayœarl, 1 1 1, 144-147,
1 6 1 ,  294 n 25, S 15 n 2,
S 1 7  n 2
Denkart, 284 n 86, 292 n 128
Dhil'l-Niln MiŔrl, 140ff, S lO n 7
Dii-Angeli, 6, 27S n 15
dimension: of light, of darkness,
228-229, 2SOff; polar, 71, 75,
90; vertical, 2S8
Dion Chrysostom, SS
docetism, 1 1 , 90, S 1 8  n 1 1
Earth: phenomenon of the, 82;
of the soul (HilrqalyA) ,  88;
of souls (the hyperborean
paradise ) ,  72, 1 17; celestial,
S 1 ,  S2; of the Imagination, of
Perfection, 154ff; of the ImAms,
S09 n 4; of the LAhilt, 57, 59,
6S; of light ( terra Iucida ) ,
72, 75; of resurrection, 89-108,
17S, S04 n S; of sesame, 154ff,
S06 n 17; of truth, 82ff, 1 S5ff,
1S6-140, 295 n S6; of visions,
S2, SS, 79-90, S04 n S,
S18 n 8; of the Watchers,
Bee al-A 'rAf
Earths (the seven ) ,  137, 151,
2S6ff, SOl n 81
Elburz (Haraberezaiti) ,  cosmic
mountain, 25, 74ff, 28S n 8 1
Elijah, S06 n 16
emerald (symbol ) ,  SSO n 20
Emerald Rock, 74
Empedocles, 129
Epiphany: of the ImAm, 89 (Bee
alBo paromia ) ; divine epiph­
anies, 8S
Eran Vej (Airyanem Vaejah ) ,
19-2S, 26ff, S2-S4, 44ff, 50,
74, 28S n 8 1, 297 n 45
Eredat-Fedhri (virgin mother of
the Saoshyant) ,  49-50
eschatology: Manichean, S05 n 41
S07 n 2 1 ;  Mazdean, 501 68-69,
70, 291 n 126, S26 n 4;
Shi'ite, 68-70, 89
esotericism, xii; Shl'ite, 260,
SS1 n 22
Eye of the world beyond, 8 1
Fakhruddln Razl, S09 n 4
Farr-i Yazdan, 274 n SO;
see also Xvarnah
FatJ.t-'Ali ShAh QijAr, 1 15
FAŕima (the dazzling) 1 the
Prophet's daughter, 57, 59, 60,
6S-69, 104, 29S n 5, 309 n 4,
S29 n 8; see also Sophia,
sophianity
faJimlya (the Imams' mode of
being) ,  68
Faust, 66
filim regim, 47
Firdawsl, xi
flowers, Mazdean liturgy of the,
S l-S2
form: human, 252ff; apparitional,
ISO, 177, 182, 25S; eternal
forms of the world beyond, 246,
248-249, 25 lff, 255; autono­
mous imaginative, 127ff, 129,
2 10ff, 2 12, S07 n 22; see also
archetype-Images
forty, 47, 291 n 120, S2S n 47
Fourteen, the Very-Pure, 58ff,
6 lff, 6S, 149, 245, S26 n 71 ,
S28 n 1 9 ,  S29 n 8
Frashkart (transfiguration of the
world) ,  lS, 15-16, 26, 29, S6,
45, 46, 69
Fravartis, 9, S6, 41, 45, 61, 86,
92, 27S n 19, S26 n 7 1
Gabriel ( archangel ) ,  65, 86, 1S2,
142, 145, 177, 190, 194,
3 14 n 28
!345

Index
Gar6tmAn (Abode of the Hymns,
highest degree of The Mazdean
paradise) ,  28, 271 n 4, 292 n
128, 331 n 27
Gavoty, B., 303 n 92
Gayomart, 46-50; Gayomartians,
284 n 85
Gehenna, the seven circles of, 226ff
geography: psychological, 30;
visionary, 24-36
geosophy, 15ff, 36-50
Gestalt, 57, 71
gltik (terrestrial, manifested
state) ,  10
gnosis: ll}ml'Ill, 329 n 4; Shl'ite,
53, 57ff, 1 13; Valentinian, 59
Goethe, 66, 3 10 n 13
gold, 47-49
Gorgitu, 326 n 72
Gospel: according to the
Egyptians, 293 n 14; of the
Hebrews, 332 n 40; according to
Thomas, 104, 293 n 14
Gospels, Childhood, 136, 3 14 n 26
Grail, castle of the, 72
Gregoras (Nicephoros ) ,  93
gumechilhn (mixture) ,  6, 327 n
H aarvatlit ( Khurdld ) ,
Amahraspand, 9, 31, 39
l;la4arlit (levels of being ) ,  310 n 1
l;laklm Tirmidhl, 3 15 n 3 1
handfuls of Heaven, the eight,
227ff, 23lff, 245; see also
physiology, mystical
Haoma, white, 26, 35
l;lasan ibn • All, second lmlm of
Shl'ism, 62, 259ff
l;laaan • Askarl, eleventh ImAm of
Sh1'ism, 264, 298 n 51,
33 1 n 28
l;layy ibn Yaq,An, 75, 294 n 20,
3 12 n 4
Heavenly Jerusalem, 73, 292 n
128, 33 1 n 27
lleavens r the eight, 302 n 86;
of IIOrqalyl, 9 1 ,  lOla of the
Pleroma of the Sahat, 6lff, 66;
suprasensory, 23 1-233, 328 n
2 1
Hell, 148-149; the seven circles
of, 230, 234ff; "hells of your
being," 328 n 2 1
Heptad: the divine, 7 ,  8 ;  of Light,
272 n 6; see also Amahraspands
Heraclide du Pont, 299 n 59
Hennes, 34, 85ff, 120-122,
296 n 45, 305 n 4
Hibil Ziwa, 103
hierarchies, esoteric, 3 15 n 32
himma (enthymesil ) ,  313 n 16,
327 n 6
historicism, xiii
Hokairya (the mountain ) ,  26 ff,
Horakhah, Angel of The Sun, 123,
125, 306 n 9, n 15
HorqalyA (celestial Earth, world
of the ) ,  xii, xivff, 12, 33, 53,
55, 58, 63, 71, 72-73, 79ff,
8 1-84, 97, 101, 1 18-134, 185,
189, 190ff, 240-268, 295 n 30,
301 n 81, 304 n 1, 3 14 n 23,
318 n 7; elements of, 91
l;lusayn ibn 'All, third lmlm of
Shl'ism, xvii, 62, 186
hyle ( hayalli, "material" matter) ,
169ff, 206, 301 n 7 1
lamblicus, 97
Ibn •Arabi, 82ff, 1 1 1, 135-143,
147, 161, 295 n 35, 296 n 45
Ibn KammOna, 121, 122
Ibn Shahr-Ashob, 205
lmaginalia, 87, 88, 294 n 24
Imaginatio 'Vera, 11, 76, 81, 149,
325 n 65
Imago Animae, 14, 15, 35, 40, 46,
Imago Terrae, 14, 15, 20, 24ff,
28, 29, 35, 40, 76, 83, 273 n 16
ImAm (the twelfth ) , the hidden
ImAm, xiv, 62, 69, 72, 89ff,
238, 260, 265-267, 292 n 3,
306 n 14, !118 n 1 1

Index
lmAmism, x; see also Sht<ism
lmlmites, see Sht<ites
lmAmology (Sht•ite ) ,  58, 64, 236,
3 13 n 20, 3 14 n 26, 32 1 n 26,
330 n 14
ImAms, the twelve, 59, 61-62,
64-65, 67, 141, 149, 178, 181,
186, 190
Intelligence: the First, 130, 23711,
242, 3 1 1  n 2; world of the,
242-245, 248; see also JabarQt
Intelligences (angelic, Cherubim,
angeli intellectuales ) ,  56, 76,
121, 130, 134, 17211, 209,
297 n 49
IsfandArmuz, 55, 56; see Spenta
Armaiti
IshrAqtynn, 171; see also oriental
theosophists
Isml'tlis, 309 n 4, 327 n 1 1
Ispahbad (=hegemonikon ) ,  130,
307 n 22
JAbalqA and JAbarŻA, cities of the
subtle world, 73, 79, 85, 89,
101, 1 18, 1 19, 12611, 13111,
134, 160--163, 173, 192, 240,
259, 261, 268, 295 n 30
Jabarnt, world or sphere of, 55,
59, 60, 130, 208, 244
JAbir ibn żayyAn, 274 n 25,
3 19 n 2, 323 n 54, 331 n 32
Ja•far ÓAdiq, fourth ImAm of
Shrism, 184, 18811, 195, 196,
2 15, 2 17, 220, 241, 259,
323 n 54, 330 n 2 1
jasad A (elemental body, material
and perishable ) ,  91-96, 99-
101, 182-183, 193-195, 19711,
200-203, 2 13, 216, 320 n 10
jasad B (spiritual body, essential,
imperishable, constituted of the
subtle elements of HorqalyA,
caro spiritualiB, jasad harqalyl) ,
9 1-96, 99-101, 183-185,
19011, 198-200, 202, 203,
2 1311, 215-2 18, 299 n 66,
320 n 10, 32 1 n 29, 323 n 46
Jtlt (•Abd al-Kartm ) ,  72, 1 12,
148-159, 136, 308 n 2
jilm A (subtle celestial body,
accidental, emanated from the
Heavens of HOrqalyA) ,  9 1-96,
186, 187, 190, 193, 195, 199,
200, 201, 203, 2 1411, 320 n 10,
323 n 46
jilm B (subtle archetypal body,
consubstantial, imperishable) ,
91-96, 99-102, 187, 190-191,
193-195, 199-200, 207-208,
2 15, 21611, 222-224, 320 n 10,
326 n 2
Jung, C. G., 274 n 24, 300 n 69,
308 n 3, 323 n 47, 324 n 6 1 ,
327 n 9
Ka•ba, 137, 141
kadblnn, kad bAnO'tya ( attribute
of Spenta Armaiti ) ,  55ff, 284 n
KalAm, 1 1 1
Kansaoya (lake ) ,  49, 279 n 62,
292 n 126
kathenotheism, 8, 272 n 6,
277 n 46
Kathtb ( al-) ,  150, 171
Kay Khusraw, 171, 306 n 16
Kerubiel (archangel ) , 191
Keshvars, the Seven, 17ff, 78,
276 n 39
Khi:r;r ( al-KhaŽtr) ,  the prophet,
72, 151, 153ff, 313 n 17, n 18,
3 15 n 3
Kraus, P., 3 19 n 2, 324 n 54
Knh-i-KhwAjah, 279 n 62
LAhtjt, •Abd al-Razzlq, 1 13-1 14,
171-175, 317 n 3
LAhtjt, Shamsuddtn Mul_tammad,
1 12-1 13, 16 1-163, 3 1 1  n 9
ltihat (sphere or pleroma of the ) ,
59, 60, 63, 244, 3 1 3  n 18,
326 n 71
lapil vivus, 100, 208, 324 n 61
Leisegang, H., 276 n 39

Index
light: auroral, 125ff; "victorial,"
55, 130
Light of Lights, 129, 132, 134
Logos and Sophia, 64
Lotus of the Boundary, 145, 234
Macrobius, 93
Maeterlinck, M., 96, 299 n 64,
3 1 8  n 9
Mahler, G., 105
Mahryag-Mahrylnag, 47
Maitreya, 89
Majlisi, 258, 309 n 4, 330 n 17
Malakat (world of sphere of the
Soul ) ,  55, 59ff, 130, 148, 165,
177, 191, 192, 207, 208,
2 1 lff, 244ff, 252, 297 n 49,
3 1 1  n 5
mandala, 276 n 39
Mandeans, 103, 192
Mandeism, 278 n 4 7
mandragore, 304 n 3
Manicheism, 280 n 64, 305 n 4,
396 n 45, 327 n 12
Maryam, 136, 177, 309 n 4
Massignon, L., 276 n 40, 293 n 5
matter: "immaterial," spiritual,
78, 169ff, 206ff; material,
see hyle
matriarchal system, 277 n 46
Mazdaism, 6; see also angelology,
eschatology
Mehmet Aga-Oglu, 28 1 n 7 1
Meier, F., 294 n 2 1
men of the Invisible, 123, 1 5 1 ,
153, 156ff, 314 n 2 8
mlniJk (celestial, subtle state ) ,  10
Mlnc'Jkl Xrat, 278 n 47
Mlnc'Jkl Tazishn, 272 n 6, n 12
metahistory, 48, 60
metamorphosis, 2 1 8-22 1, 242ff
metals, the seven, 47ff, 69
Michael (archangel ) ,  65, 191,
306 n 9, 3 14 n 28
Midnight Sun, 7 1-72, 86, 1 5 1
Mtr )}ftmld, 69, 1 1 3, 306 n 1 2
Mtr Flndnrl11k1, 1 1 3
Mi'raj (the Prophet's assumption ) ,
86, 145, 282-283 n 76, 3 1 8  n 8
Mirkhwllnd, 283 n 8 1
mirror: symbol of the, 8 1 ,  127ff,
247, 250, 253, 329 n 10; of the
Philosophers, 204ff, 323 n 52;
of the Wise Men, 99ff
Mithra, 280 n 64, 289 n 107
Mithraic liturgy, 92
Mithraism, 44
Modi, J. J., 282 n 73
Mo'In (Mut,. ) ,  282 n 75, 293 n
1 1, 296-297 n 45
Monneret de Villard, U., xviii
More, Henry, 164
Moses, 132, 145, 3 14 n 28
Moulton, J. H., 274 n 20
Mshunia Kushta, 103, 278 n 47,
303 n 88, 32 1 n 2 1
Mufld, Shaikh, 149
Mu\J.ammad (the Prophet) ,  62,
Mul,ammad Bllqir, fifth lmllm of
Shl'ism, 259, 3 14 n 26,
327 n 18
Mul,ammad Karim Khan Kirmllnl,
60, 69, 1 16, 222-239, 263,
293 n 6, 301 n 79
Mul,sin Fay¼ Kllshinr, 83, 101,
1 14, 176-179, 296 n 37,
309 n 4, 324 n 59
mulk ( 'alam al- ) ,  the visible
sensory world, 19 1ff, 248ff
mundus imaginalis archetypus,
76, 77, 87, 122, 126, 144-147,
1 60ff, 172ff, 190, 192, 240ff,
256ff, 262, 267; see also
barzakh, Hnrqalyll, archetype­
Images, Malakat, world beyond
Mutakallimnn (scholastic
theologians of Islam ) , 1 7 1 ,  1 7 4
musical relationships, see
Pythagoras
nafas al-Ra¢mtJn, 1 74
Najmuddln Kuhrn, 296 n 45,
307 n l R, 30R n 24
Nn,lrncl<11n Tn111, 2Rn n 94

Index
Naw Rnz, SS
Neryosang (the Angel ) ,  49
ruisut (humanity ) ,  SlS n 18;
see also ldhat
north, symbol of the, 71, 72
Nyberg, H. S., 271 n S, 272 n 6, n
8, 277 n 46, 285 n 92, 286 n
94, 291 n 124, SlS n 19
Occident (cosmic ) ,  75ff, 9 1
occultation (of the ImAm ) ,  2S8,
265-267, S24 n 24
okhlma (vehicle of the soul,
subtle body ) ,  92-94, lOS,
187, 1 94, 298 n 56, 299 n 66
Olympiodorus, 299 n 66
operatio secreta Artis, 204,
S2S n 52; see also alchemy
Orient: ishriiq, 85; cosmic, 75;
origin, 7 1 ;  the Orients and the
Occidents, 162- 1 6S
Oriental Theosophists
(lshriqiyiin ) ,  86, 17 1-175
palm tree, symbol of the, 1S5-1S6,
SOB n 1, n S, S09 n 4, n 5,
SlS n 15
Pand Niimak i Zartusht, 275 n S2,
284 n 84
Paraclete, S28 n 24
paradise ( a  Medean word pairi·
daeza ) ,  2 1 ,  148, 149, 276 n 4 1 ;
absolute, 100; the eight degrees
of, 226ff, 2SOfF, 2S5fF; of
Yima, see Var of Yima
parousia of the hidden ImAm, 70,
89, 178, 2S6, 2S9, 26 1, 26S,
265ff, S28 n 24
perception: harmonic, 54ff, 7 1 ;
imaginative, 61, 78fF, 127, 128,
Perfect Man, 148, 2S5
peripatetic philosophers, 124, 126,
171-175, S04 n 2
PeshotQn, 70
Phaedo, 96
Philo, 8, 64
philosophers: Islamic, S04 n 2;
natural (alchemists ) ,  208-2 10
photisms, 126, S07 n 18
physiology, mystical, xiv, S4, 40,
9 lfF, 97, 180-184, 287 n 104,
S07 n 19, S26 n 4
pillars of the Earth, 158, SIS n S2
Pistis Sophia, 42
Plato, 122, 129, S04 n 2
Plotinus, 129, S29 n 6
Plutarch, S7, 285 n 92
Poimandres, S4
Pole, 75, 90, S IS n 18, S IS n S2
Poortman, J. J., 298 n 56
powers: of light, 7, 9, S6, 45;
demonic, 9, lS, 17, 25, S7, 45
Proclus, 6, 92, 9S, 96, 27S n 15,
28S n 82, 298 n 56, S02-SOS n
prophetology, 58
psycho-cosmic mountain, SS;
see also Elburz, Qllf
Ptolemy, 19
Pythagoras, 88, 1S4
QAf, cosmic mountain, 71, 74, 140,
157, 26 1, 29S n IS, n 16,
SIS n 2 1
Qumshahl, MirzA Ri¼i, 1 12
Qutbuddln ShirAzi, 122, 126, 128,
129, ISO, 1S4
Rashnu, 289 n 107
raviin-i riih, 41, 286 n 97
Ray (the Rhages of the Book of
Tobias ) , xvii
reversion, the theme of, 71, 204,
2S6
rising dawn, 27ff, 85, 296 n 45
robe, symbol of the, 104, 1S9,
28S n 76, 296 n 45, S06 n 17
RozbihAn Baqii of Shirllz, 150,
SOB n 24, S09 n 4, SS l n 24
Sabeans, lOS
Saddar Bundehesh, 286 n 97,
287 n 104, 288 n 105

Index
Òadruddln ShirAzi (Mull&
ÒadrA) ,  55, 56, 1 1S, 122,
164.-170, 192, 20S, 204, 206,
207, 2 10, 212, 218, 219, 246,
299 D 6S, S07 D 21, S 1 1  D 8,
S l7 n 12, S26 n 5, n 1 1, n 15
Sallmln and Absll, 296 n 45
SalmAn PArsi, 258
Saoshyant (the Zoroastrian
Savior) ,  xiv, 18, S7, 46, 48, 49,
62, 69, S06 n 14; the three
Saoshyanta, 291 n 126
SarkAr .Aghl (Shaikh ) ,  80, 89,
98, 1 17, 241-268, 298 n 51,
S26 n 1
Seraphiel, Angel of Resurrection,
65, 95, 185, 187, 196, 198ff,
215-217, S l4 n 28, S25 n
67, n 70
Seven Sleepers (the ) ,  299 n 6S,
S 14 n 2S
seventy, S22 n S6, n S9, S2S n
47, S27 n 12
shadow, 10, S4
Shahr BlnQ (princess ) ,  xvii
1hahr-i Dukhtartin, 70, 291 n 126
ShahrazQrl, 120ff, 122, S05 n 4
ShiJyut lti-Bhtiyut, 272 n 6,
27S n 14
Shaikhism, 12, 57-59, 77, 86,
1 14-117
Shrism, Shi'ites, x, xi, xiii, 57, 89,
149, 179, 2S5, 265, 266,
SOB n 1, S18 n 9, S19 n 12
Simnlnl, xviii, S2 1 n 16
Óimurgh (the ) , xviii
Socrates, 129
Sophia, xiv, S6, S7, S9, 41, 50,
56ff, 64-66, 104, 284 n 87,
285 n 92, 287 n lOS, 292 n
128; ãee al1o Da!nl, Flźima,
Spenta Armaiti
sophianity, S7ff, 64, 68, 104
aophlology1 Mazdean, S6ff, 68;
Shi'ite, 59, 64-66
aoul, world of the, !145, 247, 248,
!U H 1  "' al•o MaltaJat
soul of the world, 5154
souls: the matter of, 247; origin
of, 247; way of entry to the
world of, 247ff
Souls of the Spheres (angeli
coele1te• ) ,  55ff, 76ff, 145, 209,
297 n 49
Spendarmatlklh, S7, SB, S9, 68,
104, 284 n 86, 286 n 94
•Penta, 271 n S
Spenta Armaiti ( Spendarmat,
Isfendarmuz) ,  Amahraspand,
archangel of the Earth, xiv, 9,
15, 31, S6-S8, 46, 47, 55ff,
57, 59, 6S, 68ff, 104,
284 n 86, n 88
Sphere of Spheres, 62, 191
Spirit: world of the, 248; "of the
imagination," "of paradise,"
148; Holy Spirit, S09 n 4
spiritual meaning, xiii
•Pi8Bittulo •Piritu.ali8, 164-170,
S26 n 5, SS1 n Sl
Sraosha ( Ser68h ) ,  the angel,
287 n 104
Steiner, Rudolf, 298 n 55
Strauss, Richard, 105
Strzygowski, J., 28 1 n 7 1
!;lnfism, !;lafls, xi, 64, 1 1 1, 171,
172, 174
Sun rising in the Occident, 89,
267, SS l n S2
Swedenborg, 102, S02 n 82,
S27 n 15, SSO n 16
Tabarl, 7S, 293 n lS
'fabarsl (AbQ MansQr •Ali) ,  188,
S09 n 4, S20 n lS
Tabula 1ecreta (lawh mah/Gz ) ,
66, 146
tan i puen (future body ) ,
S26 n 4
Taromati ( archdemon ) ,  S9,
285 n 92
tawhld, S26
Ta'wll (hermeneutics of symbol• ) ,
li, i l ,  34, 53, 56, 50, 60, 66,
1 84, 180

Index
_Theology, attributed to Aristotle,
122, 3()4. n 2
Theophany, 61, 63, 66, 68, 137,
15 1ff
theosophy, x, xi; Isml'ill,
289 n 1 13; Mazdean, 92;
Sht•ite, 58
time, 140, 249, 32 1 n 16,
33 1 n 25
tomb, meaning of the, 184, 189-
191, 218, 219, 249, 321 n 23,
325 n 67
treasuries: the six, matrix of the
archetypal body (jum B ) ,
187ff, 193, 196ff, 206, 2 17ff,
322 n 23, 329 n 1 1; the three,
Ushah, Ushahin, 280 n 64
Ushidarena (mountain of dawns ) ,
27ff
Var of Yima, 17, 23ff, 71, 73,
103, 140, 151, 277 n 46,
290 n 120
vicharishn, 6
Virgin of light, 42, 287 n 104
visio amaragdina, 74, 8 1
Vispa Taurvairi ( Omnivictrix,
virgin mother of The
Saoshyant ) ,  49, 277 n 46
Vohu Manah (Vohuman,
Bahman ) ,  Amahraspand, 8, 31,
34ǎ, 55
Watchers (Yaqzln, Egregoroa ) ,
15 1-153, 3 12 n 4; the men of
al-A•rlf, 150
witness of contemplation (ahdhfd ) ,
123, 306 n 10
world beyond, 165, 166ff, 168
Xshathra V airya ( Shatrlvar,
Shahrlvar) , Amahraspand,
8, 3 1
Xvaniratha, 17ff, 275 n 37
Xvamah (K.horreh, Far) ,  Light­
of-Glory, 13ff, 24, 26, 29, 30,
35, 37, 42, 45ff, 49, 77, 125,
274 n 30, n 31, 279 n 56,
269 n 105, 297 n 45, 306 Β 13;
Royal Xvarnah, 125, 274 n 30
Yahya, Osman, 1 1 1, 3 15 n 3 1
Yaqtlt, 19, 275 n 38, 293 n 1 3
Yazatas (lzad), 6 ,  9 ,  274 n 19
Y azdgard III, xvii
Yima, aee Var of Yima
Yah, angel of the fourth Heaven,
15 1, 153, 3 10 n 14, 3 12 n 8
Zll, son of Slm, xviii
Zamylt, dea tureatm, 9, 13, 24,
28, 32, 37, 46
Zarathustra (Zoroaster) , 8, 2 1ff,
32-35, 48-50, 85, 275 n 37,
282 n 76, 284 n 88, 286 n 94, n
96, 306 D 16
Zaratuaht N4meh (Book of
Zorouter) ,  32ff, 282 n 75,
285 n 90
Ziit-Spram, 33, 273 n 18, 282 n
75, 283 D 79, 285 n 90
Zaynal-•A.bidtn KhAn Kirmln1,
1 16, 259, 330 n 19
35 1