The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Ideology and Practice from the
1950s to the Present
RONEN A.  COHEN

THE HOJJATIYEH SOCIETY IN IRAN
Copyright © Ronen A. Cohen, 2013.
All rights reserved.
First published in 2013 by
PALGRAVE MACMILLAN®
in the United States— a division of St. Martin’s Press LLC,
175 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10010.
Where this book is distributed in the UK, Europe and the rest of the world,
this is by Palgrave Macmillan, a division of Macmillan Publishers Limited,
registered in England, company number 785998, of Houndmills,
Basingstoke, Hampshire RG21 6XS.
Palgrave Macmillan is the global academic imprint of the above companies
and has companies and representatives throughout the world.
Palgrave® and Macmillan® are registered trademarks in the United States,
the United Kingdom, Europe and other countries.
ISBN: 978–1–137–30476–6
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Cohen, Ronen.
The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran : ideology and practice from the
1950s to the present / Ronen A. Cohen.
p. cm.
ISBN 978–1–137–30476–6 (hardback : alk. paper)
1. Anjuman-i Hujjatiyah. 2. Shi’ah—Iran—History—20th century.
3. Iran—History—Revolution, 1979. 4. Bahais—Persecutions—Iran.
5. Iran—Ethnic relations. I. Title.
BP10.A546C64 2013
297.6!5—dc23
2012035488
A catalogue record of the book is available from the British Library.
Design by Newgen Imaging Systems (P) Ltd., Chennai, India.
First edition: February 2013
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

To my Sweet Angels
(Taghdim be Fereshteh-haye Azizam)
Orianne and Yair

Contents
Preface
ix
Acknowledgments
xv
List of Abbreviations
xvii
Part I  The Spiritual Background to the Imamate
Shi’a— Ithna A’shariyyah and the First Half
of the Twentieth Century
1  The Story of the Shi’a
2  The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
Part II  The Baha’i Faith and the
Emergence of the Hojjatiyeh
3  The Baha’i Faith and Its Origins in Shi’a Islam and Despair
4  The Hojjatiyeh Society
Part III  Postrevolution Era and the Hojjatiyeh
as a Counterrevolutionary Movement
5  Danger Ahead: Challenging Khomeini
6  The Evolution of Extremism
Conclusions
Notes
Bibliography
Index

Preface
The Development of Revolutionary
Movements, Sects, and Religions
Every revolution or coup that occurred in the Middle East during the twen-
tieth century was formed and created out of circumstances that produced
protest and opposition groups and movements. In principle those who led
revolutions and coups aimed to replace the current order (monarchy, repub-
lic, or other systems) with a new order, whether religious, ideological, repub-
lican, or monarchic. Most revolutionary works written by intellectuals and
factors using the mass media contained spiritual elements and this is also
true for those works issued by religious leaders such as Ayatollah Ruhallah
Khomeini (Iran), Hassan al-Turabi (Sudan), Musa as-Sadr (Lebanon), and
Hassan al-Bana (Egypt).
These intellectuals and philosophers were influenced by the utopian
vision of the Arab and Islamic thinkers of the early twentieth century such
as Sayyid Jamal ad-Din al-Afghani, Rifa’ah Rafi’ al-Tahtawi, Mohammad
Abduh, Khayer Al-Din al-Tunisy, Taha Hossein, Ahmad Lotfi as-Sayyid,
and others who developed genuine religious insights both regarding Islamic
and Arab world issues and measures that needed to be taken in order to
lead these communities toward political and spiritual supremacy. All these
intellectuals had the common aspiration of instigating a return to the pure
form of Islam (Salafism), which would, they argued, provide all the vital
foundations necessary to save the Muslim community and the Arab states
from the destruction of their religion and character.
The spiritual presentation of these intellectuals seems far from the
typical eschatology that tends to characterize religious people such as the
Ulama and the clergy as those who seek to present a utopian future from
an apocalyptic view. In our case the return to pure Islam was regarded as a
utopian vision, that is, apparently a return to the period of the prophets—a
period when Islam was being created and connected to heaven’s dominion,
which was the ultimate vision. It might seem that this utopian aspiration,

Preface
x
the return to the times of the prophets, was perhaps aiming at a renewal of
the spiritual creativity and religious rule that was present during the times
of the prophets and Rashidun. According to the classical approach Muslim
and Arab intellectuals considered the  Umah (nation) to be a spiritual vision
that essentially represented the political and geographical completeness of
Islam but, in the light of this spiritual and political completeness (pre-
ceding the Islamic conquests), this same completeness within Arab and
Muslim empires has been difficult to preserve in our times.
Although Islam does not include any particular sect that tries to preach
for renewal, there are a few groups that could be considered so-called sects
because they seek to prove that their goal is to stimulate awareness and
the aspiration to return to pure Islam. These are not “sects” in the full
meaning of the word, even though they have their own visions regarding
the restoration of the necessary utopian vision; thus their whole ambition
is to motivate their own society and others that might appear similar to
them. The aim is to implant their particular spiritual awareness as the
motivator for the creation of a necessary new order. The term “revolution”
is an unfamiliar one within Islam and the revolutions that have occurred
during its existence have been political rather than religious. Therefore, he
concludes that such movements and sects will also try to lead to a politi-
cal, and not necessarily revolutionary, change in order to construct their
utopian doctrines
One cannot use the term “revolution” for any renewal of the utopian
Islamic order but all of this is relevant mainly to the Islamic Sunnah that
has preserved its nature since the establishment of Islam. On the other
hand, the Shi’a Islam represented by the Ayatollah Khomeini and by those
who followed him in the Islamic Republic of Iran reflects a different kind
of Shi’a Islam and relates to the one known before the Islamic revolution—
especially in regard to politics and methods of government.
Unlike the Sunnah, where the utopian order or vision involves a spiri-
tual return to the times of the prophets, the Shi’a believe in a return to the
Caliphate of Ali as the real and legitimate successor of Mohammad. He is
considered to be the shepherd of the Muslim community and the paver of
the real Islam according to the interpretation found in the Shi’i Shari’a. This
necessary return has been integrated into an eschatological-apocalyptic
vision that presents the coming future as a double combination, meaning
the utopian vision will only be fulfilled after the implementation of the
apocalyptic vision of the return of the Hidden Imam (the Mahdi), and the
rehabilitation of the world through the Shi’a way. This future return of
the Mahdi implies that there will be an historical rehabilitation in which
Islam will once again be led by the Prophet’s descendants (from Ali and
Fatimah) whose rule will be the right and legitimate one.

Preface
xi
This utopian vision that seeks a human society that will practice divine
law is neither specific nor unique to the Shi’ites or the classical religions
such as Judaism and Christianity but also belongs to the Baha’i faith,
which, surprisingly, is the spiritual fruit of the eschatological thoughts
that have derived from expectations regarding the Mahdi. Involvement in
eschatological measures and components, and the constant preparedness
for the coming of the Mahdi, has created a Messianic movement, which
has been devoted to the acceleration and expedition of his return (such
as is the case with the Shaykhiya and Babism). This was the basis for the
creation of the Baha’i religion, which theoretically represents a revolution-
ary doctrine with respect to the eschatological implementation of the Shi’a
components of Mahdivism  without its apocalyptic components.
The development of the Baha’i faith as an independent religion result-
ing from the classical Shi’a interpretation has led the Shi’a to see the Baha’i
faith as an imitative religion, a misleading religion, and worse—a heretical
religion. The Baha’i approach, based on the adoption of the same Mahdi
as the Shi’ite, has created deep antagonism within the Shi’a and is regarded
with great hostility since it provides a different rational, emotional, and
religious emphasis to the classical Shi’a belief, which has never deviated
from the right path in its traditional belief in the Mahdi’s return.
Political and Religious Messianism—The
Birth of a New Religion—The Islamic
Revolution and Its Herald
One of the leading religious developments of the twentieth century was
the Islamic Revolution in Iran, and the shah’s fall indicated more than
just a change in the regime’s orientation. It also involved a change in
beliefs, mainly inside the Shi’a itself, which was actually more than a revo-
lution since it was the birth of a new religion. The Islamic Revolution’s
leader and founder, the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, organized this
revolution based on the religious needs of the Shi’a and because of the
social and economic changes undergone by the Iranian people. His fer-
vor to bring down the Pahlavi Monarchy, one way or the other, forced
him to renew an old belief and some of the marginal aspects of orthodox
Shi’a—especially the leadership of the community known as  Velayat-i
Faqih , the rule of the clergy—by exercising control over the regime that
went beyond just advising the crown. In addition the Ayatollah Khomeini
emphasized that the Shi’a’s religious rituals were part of the servitude the

Preface
xii
people were experiencing under the shah. In this way Khomeini removed
the real meaning of these rituals from their historical context—the Shi’a
living under the Sunni reign—and transposed them into the modern
period of the shah—that is, Shi’a life under a hypocritical monarchy.
From a certain point of view, this was worse than being a Shi’a under the
Sunni reign itself.
When one examines the Shi’a’s spectrum of beliefs and compares them
to Khomeini’s phenomenal success in that revolution, one can see that
the emphasized aspects (which were marginal for the Shi’a and were only
really debated among the Shi’a Mojtaheds, Ayatollahs, during the last two
centuries) became a central issue and a way of life for the Islamic Republic
of Iran. The Islamic Republic’s constitution was built upon these mar-
ginal beliefs, which were reelaborated by Khomeini and his Revolutionary
Council.
In the process of stabilizing the flames of the revolution Khomeini
enabled the parties and the media to flourish and express their beliefs and
propaganda in order to build up their popular frameworks and find their
places in the new political arena. For nine months there was a real process
in which democracy flourished in the new Islamic Republic. This enabled
the media and the political parties to refine their accumulated thoughts for
reconstituting the state under a new regime as was promised by the revolu-
tion’s founders and leaders. These parties and media factors truly believed
that the new regime was all about bringing about a new and positive atmo-
sphere in Iran despite its religious orientation. Those nine months of free-
dom, however, brought Khomeini and his political partners, along with
the Revolutionary Council, to the realization that freedom could destabi-
lize the new foundations of the young emerging regime.
Among those political parties and others who wished to find their place
in the new political scene, there was a society called the Hojjatiyeh who
were very distinctive from all the old and new parties since it was more
than a political party and more than just a religious entity. The story of the
Hojjatiyeh, however, started long before the parties were able to flourish
and was established as a movement in 1953 by Sheikh Mahmoud Halabi, a
cleric who was, at first, encouraged by the Shah Mohammad Reza and car-
ried out his political agenda. Later he was, however, banished by the shah
along with other parties and movements considered by him to be a threat
to his fragile monarchy just after the Mossadeq crisis. The Hojjatiyeh, it
must be said, was stopped only for being a movement and not for being a
religious sect. Although the Hojjatiyeh was different, radical, and nurtured
by a traditional interpretation of the Shi’a, it challenged the emerging
regime and the common Shi’a leaders. While their ambivalent approach
was, on the one hand, a rejection of Khomeini’s  Velayat-i Faqih , it, on the

Preface
xiii
other hand, offered Khomeini the necessary support for the new regime’s
cadres in the renovated institutions.
Said Amir Arjomand in his incredible book  The Shadow of God and the
Hidden Imam , writes in his conclusions that in the
adducing of traditions relating to the Mahdi, he [Hujjat al-Islam Ridvani,
i.e.] added that the purpose of the march on Jerusalem [as the final success
of the Iran-Iraq war] was to acclaim the reappearance of the Hidden Imam
as the Mahdi, and to witness the reappearance of Jesus Christ and his final
conversion to Islam by the Mahdi. It is interesting to note that the Hujjati
group [the Hojjatiyeh, i.e.]—so named after the Hidden Imam as the
hujjat (proof) of God and a powerful oppositional group within the Islamic
Republic—rejects the legitimacy of Khumaini’s theocratic monism because
it entails the usurpation of the right of the Mahdi. 1
Although this research will reveal the Hojjatiyeh’s way of life, beliefs,
and actions the main questions it deals with are: Who are the Hojjatiyeh?
What aspects of Shi’a exist in them? What elements of Shi’a do they believe
in and what do they represent by holding such a philosophy and practice?
Is their utopian vision based on classical Shi’a elements or does it represent
revolutionary and innovative thoughts? And why did they fight both the
Baha’i faith and believers and Khomeini’s  Velayat-i Faqih ?
This research tries to trace the connection between the 1979 Islamic
Revolution and the Hojjatiyeh’s methods and innovations such as radical,
fundamental, and unique thoughts and paradigms. Khomeini’s meth-
ods and his interpretation of the Shi’a are, however, different from the
Hojjatiyeh—so these questions must be asked: Did the Hojjatiyeh delay
Khomeini’s revolution or did they, perhaps, speed it up while objecting to
his approach? Could the Islamic Revolution have taken place before 1979?
The research is divided in three main parts. The first will deal with
the Shi’a concepts and the main stream—the  Ithna A’sharia , the Imamate,
and the followers of the Twelfth Imam—the Mahdi. The main goal of this
part is to provide us with the basic background of the Shi’a and its essential
theology so that we can arrive at a good understanding of the appearance
of the Sheikhiyya, Babism, and Bahai’sm.
The second part will deal with the appearance of the Sheikhiyya,
Babism, and Bahai’sm as parts of the theological and historical background
for the Hojjatiyeh’s emergence. This part will deal with the foundation of
the Hojjatiyeh during the early 1950s in the framework of the histori-
cal and religious background that led to that foundation and, necessarily,
will refer to its leaders and followers such as the Ayatollahs Mahmoud
Halabi and Borojurdi. We will discuss the causes and realities that led to
the movement’s banishment. This part also deals with the accusation that

Preface
xiv
the Hojjatiyeh was allegedly established mainly to fight the Baha’i believ-
ers and followers of the late Shah—Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
The third and last part will deal with the Hojjatiyeh’s activities, which
were prohibited from 1953 till the first year of the Islamic Republic’s foun-
dation in 1980. This part will also discuss the political machinations after
the Islamic Revolution, the parties’ flourishing stage, and the Hojjatiyeh’s
comeback in the revived atmosphere. This important part will discuss the
main arguments that took place between the revolution’s spiritual leader,
Khomeini, and the Hojjatiyeh’s leaders and followers. And last, but not
least, the final chapter will discuss the emergence of the Mahdiviyat Group
that allegedly separated from the Hojjatiyeh but still kept the same leader-
ship as the Hojjatiyeh.

Acknowledgments
This book started with a paper that I submitted to the Eighth Biannual
Conference of the International Society for Iranian Studies (ISIS), held in
Los Angeles, United States, in 2010. There I found Professor Mohammad
Tavakoli-Targhi, the then president of ISIS, who believed that the
Hojjatiyeh Society needed more exposure and research. I would like to
take this opportunity to thank Professor Tavakoli-Targhi who, despite the
circumstances, gave me the opportunity to pursue this challenge. Next I
would like to thank Mrs. Farideh Koohi-Kamali, editorial director, US
Academic Books, at Palgrave Macmillan, who saw the potential of this
issue as a book; and also Ms. Sarah Nathan and Ms. Sara Doskow, for their
devoted assistance.
Writing on the Hojjatiyeh without obtaining any primary resources
and material from Iran is an almost impossible task but, even though Israel
and Iran are hostile to one another, not to mention the winds of war that
are stirring day by day, it is very important to mention that the Iranian
people I have met, both inside and outside Iran, do not share this hostility.
The opposite is also true as many of them are logical and wise people who
see reality in practical and rational ways and wish to develop and gather as
much knowledge as they can despite their limited technical and political
possibilities. Therefore, I would like to thank these people, who remain in
the shadows and sometimes risked their lives in order to procure unique
material. Unfortunately I cannot reveal their names but they all deserve
our respect and gratitude for their honorable actions. If all people behaved
in a similar civilized way, war between Israel and Iran would probably
never happen.
I would like to express my gratitude and thanks to the Authority for
Research & Development at Ariel University who supported this book
from its first stages; to Mr. Ralph Amelan, from the The American Center,
US Embassy in Jerusalem, a man with a research attitude, who greatly
assisted me always with pleasure, a smile, and warmth; to Mr. Samuel
Beris, my professional editor for his wise advice; to my colleagues, Dr. Eyal
Lewin, Dr. Etta Bick, and Professor Alexander Bligh, who constantly

Acknowledgments
xvi
supported me; to Mrs. Yelena Elayev, my research assistant, who worked
day and night in order to cope with the mass of material and whose admi-
rable help was invaluable; and the many others who supported me in all
my endeavors.
Special thanks go to my beloved children, Orianne and Ya’ir, who,
although they could not help me academically with this challenge, pro-
vided me, and still provide me, with the spiritual power and strength to
contend with all my personal and academic challenges.
Although we all aim for perfection and completion, making mistakes is
part of our human nature. As Qoheleth (Ecclesiastes) says: “For there is not
a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not” ( Chapter 7 : 20).
All those mentioned here can only be thanked for their support. If there is
any criticism, it should be aimed at me alone.

Abbreviations
CAB
UK Cabinet
CIA
Central Intelligence Agency
FBI
Federal Bureau of Investigation
FO
UK Foreign Offi  ce
IRP
Islamic Republican Party
IPRP
Islamic People’s Republican Party
SAVAK
Sazman-e Amniyat va Atele’at Keshvar (Th e Organization
of Information and Security of the State—the shah’s Secret
Intelligence offi  ce)
MEK
Mojahedin-e Khalq (also: MKO—Mojahedin Khalq
Organization)
VAVAK
Vezarat-e Etelaat va Amniat-e Keshvar (Th e Ministry of
Information and Security of the Islamic Republic of Iran)

This page intentionally left blank

Part I
The Spiritual Background to the
Imamate Shi’a— Ithna A’shariyyah and
the First Half of the Twentieth Century

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 1
The Story of the Shi’a
The Creation of the Shi’a
Shi’a Islam is the second largest stream in Islam with about 15 percent of
all Muslims being Shiite compared to the Sunnah with 80 percent. The
Sunni religious leaders in the Middle Ages did not consider the Shi’a to be
part of Islam due to fundamental differences in religious doctrine, and the
recognition of the Shi’a stream by the Sunnah took place only later at the
end of the Ottoman period. The main reason for this was the active pres-
ence of Western colonialism in the Muslim states. It appears that Sunni
scholars and modernists such as Muhammad Abduh and Jamal ad-Din
al-Afghani, who were part of the national and modernist stream, acted
more with words and less by real actions in their recognition of the Shi’a
as part of the Muslim community so they could have them as allies in the
pursuit of their anti-Western political aims. 1 Throughout the Ottoman
rule, however, even though the Shiites were regarded as “sinful” or “devia-
tionist,” they were still regarded as Muslims. Up to the mid-nineteenth
century the Ottomans and the Wahhabis banned various Shi’i practices
such as the ‘Ashura ( ta’ziyah ) processions, or public cursing of the first
three caliphs, and destroyed their holy shrines 2 but did not disrupt the
functioning of the Shi’i seminaries ( madaris ). Following the Ottoman sup-
pression of the 1843–1844 Karbala rebellion, however, the Ottomans did
allow these processions and the Shiites were not required to pay the  jizya
or any other tax that non-Muslims had to pay. 3
Recognition of the Shi’i minority also came from the Saudi Arabian
regime who “in the eighteenth century considered the Shi’is as miscreant,
and desecrated their shrines in Iraq, [but] now, not only treat the Shi’i

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Iranian[s], at least officially, as equal Muslims but are also tolerant of their
own Shi’i subjects.” 4
In the  Thawrat al-I’shrin (the revolution of the 1920s) in Iraq against the
British, the Shiites “saw themselves as at least equal partners in the future
Iraqi state,” and in this particular case, the Shiites were alone in their fight
against the British as “only a few Sunni leaders were opposed to the British,
and in fact many of them had worked closely with them and sought their
support.” This fight against the British had deep roots in the Shi’i opposi-
tion as they, at first, preferred to be dominated by the Sunni regime (the
Ottomans), rather than by the British who represented Christian supe-
riority over Islam. After the collapse of the Ottoman Empire the Shiites
believed that they would share political power with the Sunnis, but, to
their misfortune, they were ultimately dominated by both the Sunni and
the British. 5
At this point there needs to be a brief review of what Shi’a is. The
word “Shi’a” itself means a section, a group. Among the Shiites Ali Ibn Abi
Talib, Muhammad’s cousin, the husband of his daughter Fatima and the
first or second after Muhammad to adopt Islam, is considered to be the
fourth caliph and the sole heir of Muhammad. The power of the three first
caliphs, Abu Bakr, U’mar, and U’thman, is not recognized by the Shiites as
l egitimate. 6 The foundation of the sect is attributed to Ali’s son, Hussein,
who, together with his family and supporters, was murdered by the Sunni
army led by Yazid, Mua’wiyah’s son, near the Iraqi city of Karbala. On
his commemoration day, the day of ‘Ashura, the Shiites perform self-
flagellation as a symbolic mourning of his martyrdom and the history of
repression imposed on the Shiites by the Sunnis. As can be seen the Shi’a’s
worldview in general, in fact, has remained pessimistic and gloomy. In
addition to the holiness of Mecca, the Shiites have other sacred cities, the
most important being Karbala and Najaf in Iraq. The Shi’a comprises sev-
eral subdivisions that believe in the dynasties of various imams such as the
Ithna A’shariyyah who expected the return of the Hidden Imam who dis-
appeared in the ninth century and is expected to come back as the Mahdi
(Messiah) at the End of Days. 7
The Theological Differences between the
Sunnis and the Shiites
The differences between the Shiites and the Sunnis are both theologi-
cal and historical. From the theological aspect, it is a question of vari-
ous beliefs regarding principles of Islam and concerns, for instance, the
tawhid (the doctrine of the oneness of God),  nobuwa (prophecy), and

The Story of the Shi’a
imamate (leadership). They are also different in their religious emotion
with the Shiites considered to be more emotional, messianic, and more
populist. Both the Shiites and the Sunnis reject oral traditions that are
not compatible with the Prophet Muhammad’s statements. However, the
Shiites reject the Sunnis’ transmitters of hadith as unreliable since these
traditions have usually favored Ali’s opponents. The Shiites have their
own transmitters and see the statements of the Imams as the genuine
hadith. 8
The Shiites believe there is just one God who is not limited in any
way and who is good and just and this is why His judgment is right.
According to the Shiites God relates to both the good and evil in men and
He will not return evil for good or vice versa. Human beings are given the
choice between good and evil and this choice will decide their future and
destiny. 9
There are also differences regarding other principles in Islam. The Shiites
consider the prophets/messengers (Abraham being the first prophet and
Muhammad the last) to have been appointed by God and, as such, they are
perfect (in their faith, their word, their thoughts, and their acts—‘ Ismah—
Ma’sumin ). The Shiites believe that God appoints a perfect man in each era
to be the heir of the Prophet and the defender of Islam. The Sunnis also
believe that there are other ways to carry out Islamic leadership. 10 Mulla
Muhammad Baqir, known as ‘Allama Majlisi, says in his comprehensive
and significant work  Bihar al-Anwar that “ jumlat alqaul fihi—ay fi mab-
huth al-ismah—an ishabna al-imamiat ajmau’a a’la ismati al-anabiai wali-
mati salawat allahi a’lihum min al-dhunubi al-zrirati wu’l-kabirati a’mdan
wa khataa wa al-nasiana qabla al-nubuwati wal-imamati wal-ba’ad huma,
bal min waqti wildatihim ila an yalqaw allah ta’ali . . . ” (Conclusion: that
is, in the study of infallibility—that our companions have unanimously
agreed that the Imami infallibility of the Prophets, and the Imams’ blessing
of Allah be on them, not only in regard to both the deliberate small and
the large sins and errors and the mistakes made before his prophethood and
Imamate and after but also from the time of their birth to when they lie
with God . . . ). 11
The Sunnah attributes an important role to the stories and traditions
of Muhammad and, in this regard, the Shi’a differs from the Sunnah.
The Shi’a makes a distinction between Muhammad’s faithful friends and
others who were also his friends but were not really faithful and invented
stories and historical events. It is for this reason that the Shiites believe all
stories concerning the Prophet should be rationally tested for accuracy and
sources. 12
According to the Shi’a, it is incorrect to think that it separated at a
later stage or emerged from the main stream of Islam since, as per many

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
testimonies (among both Shiites and Sunnis), the prophet Muhammad
divided his followers into those who followed the Imam Ali (Shi’a in
Arabic) and those who did not. Both Shiite and Sunni testimonies show
that after Muhammad’s death, the Imam Ali was opposed to the govern-
ment of Abu-Bakr and ‘Umar. The Sunnis believe that there is nothing in
the Quran or the hadith that refers to the fact that the role of the imams
is part of the pillars of Islam as argued by the Shiites who emphasize the
opposite and believe in the centrality of the imams. The Shi’ites consider
the imam to be a divinity who is perfect and endowed with prophetic
powers but they do not attribute these powers to their divinity for they are
dependent on God’s will. 13 In any case both groups have different argu-
ments and definitions regarding Islam and for this reason they can be
considered to be two different groups from the very beginning.
Essential Principles of the Shiite Faith
Like the Sunnis, the Shiites follow the five pillars of Islam:  shahada , which
is testimony,  namaz , which is prayer,  zakat , which is charity,  sawum ,
which is the fast, and the  hajj , which is the pilgrimage to Mecca. The Shi’a
embraces another three pillars, some of which come from ancient tradi-
tions and sources and have new and temporary interpretations: the  Khoms
tax, which means the donation of a fifth of one’s income for charity and is
a very ancient costume in the Shi’a, and the  jihad , which is a holy war for
the defense of Islamic nations and is still obligatory till the return of the
Hidden Imam as He is the only one who can declare jihad. The real jihad
in the eyes of the Shi’a is, however, “the war against one’s own corrupt
desires and inclinations, and is an ever-present battle” ( dar zaman-i ghay-
bat jihadi nist ). 14 Rola el-Husseini states that “[t]he authority under which
jihad is waged is both religious and political. In Shi’ism, a rightful jihad
can be waged only under the leadership of the Imam. According to Shi’a
beliefs, the Imam has been in occultation since the ninth century and no
rightful Jihad can be waged in his absence.” 15 ‘Allama Majlisi emphasized
in  Bihār al-Anwār , 16 his hadith collection: “wila jihad ila ma’ al-Imam”
(there is no Jihad without the Imam), which it derives from the Quranic
sentence ( Aya ) (Quran 5:54) “a’la alkafarina yujahiduna fi sabil allah . . . ”
(stern with the disbelievers, and will strive in the cause of God . . . ). 17
However, only during the nineteenth century did Shi’i scholars permit
the waging of a defensive jihad. The third and last pillar is the demand to
do good ( Amr bi’l Ma’ruf  ) and avoid malicious thoughts, words, and acts
( Nahy a’n al-Munkar ). 18

The Story of the Shi’a
The followers of the  Ithna A’shariyyah stream believe in five fundamen-
tal principles of the Shiite faith:
There is only one God and Prophet Muhammad is the last prophet
1.
sent to humankind, the first prophets being Abraham, Moses, Jesus,
and then Muhammad as the Seal of the Prophets (this is actually the
Shahada: lā ilāha illallāh, wa Muhammad rasūlu-llāh ). 19
The resurrection of body and soul on Judgment Day.
2.
Divine justice or punishment will be dispensed to followers who
3.
have acted according to their free spirit.
The twelfth imam, the legitimate heir of Muhammad, is the leader
4.
of the Islamic world.
The recommendation of making a pilgrimage to the Shi’a holy
5.
places.
The first three pillars belong both to Shiites from other streams and
to Sunnis—not only to the Twelfth Shi’a stream. On the other hand, the
Shi’a imam leadership is a basic concept that relates to the leader not only
in concrete matters but also in a spiritual sense as the leader is respon-
sible for translating and explaining the Quran and the Prophet’s word.
In addition the Shiites have added other elements that differ from Sunni
Islam, such as the changing of inheritance laws, divorce, temporary mar-
riage ( nikāh al-mut‘ah ), and the obligation to conceal one’s religion when
in danger ( taqia and  tawria ). 20
The Shiites who are the followers of the 12 imams believe that they are
sinless, errorless, and appointed by God after Muhammad. According to
the Shi’a, the imam leadership started during Ali’s times and some theo-
ries say that it already existed during the Prophet’s life. After Uthman’s
assassination, Ali became the caliph of the Muslim community but his
authority and legitimacy were questioned. Indeed the Shiites consider Ali
to be the first imam and his sons Hassan and Hussein as his successors, the
second and third imam, respectively. This goes on until the twelfth and
last imam, the Hidden Imam who will return on Judgment Day to judge
the world. 21
Ali took part in all of the Prophet’s wars but one, and the Prophet chose
him to be the husband of his daughter, Fatima. The Shiites consider the
close relationship between Ali and the Prophet as the foundation for the
Shi’a legitimacy. When Ali was 6 years old Muhammad invited him to
live by his side and the Shiites believe that Ali was the first to give a tes-
timony of faith in Islam. Ali also slept in Muhammad’s bed on the  Hijra
day when they traveled from Mecca to Medina because of the threat that
Muhammad’s enemies would break into the house and kill the Prophet. 22

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
The Role of the Imamate
The Shi’a religion developed its theological principles along with its lead-
ership principles and, in this respect of the Imamate, this integrates the
historical and theological narratives. The historical debate between the
Sunnah and the Shi’a about the identity of the community’s leader shaped
the character of the Shi’a, especially during the period of the fifth and sixth
imams (Muhammad al-Baqir and Ja’far al-Sadiq, respectively), the world-
view of the imam’s role within their community, and especially the role that
the imams carry out on behalf of the Islamic world—not only the world of
the Shi’i.
The differences between Shi’a and Sunnah are quite substantial and,
in regard to this specific issue, the Imamate is really unique and special to
the Shi’a itself. In general, the Sunnis see the leadership, especially after
the Prophet’s death, as a “temporal leadership,” since the Caliph “is a first
among equals, elected ideally by consensus.” 23
On the other hand, the Shi’a sees this principle as a fateful question that
has led to the deepening and constructiveness of the idealization of the
Imamate that was created by the Shi’a imams and scholars. The principles
that were arrived at after the debate about the first leadership following
the Prophet’s death created new issues regarding the leadership. From this
point on, the role of leadership in the eyes of the Shi’a had both an earthly
and a divine role, just as was represented by Muhammad the Prophet—and
this gave the Shi’a its uniqueness and mystical-eschatological outlook.
According to the Shi’a, the Prophet designated the Imam Ali as his
successor (i.e., according to the Shi’a—in the  Ghadir Khum ceremony)
and gave him the authority to designate a successor from his bloodline,
which was Muhammad’s own bloodline ( Ahul al-Bayt )—and this leader-
ship was not to depend on the Muslim community’s granting of legitimacy
or consensus.
The role and legitimacy of the imams as the real interpreters and divine
guides is the crux of the debate between the Sunnis and the Shiites regard-
ing the leader’s function, legitimacy, and authority. The Shi’a believe that
the leader’s role is not only to deal with secular politics but that it is mainly
to be a religious guide to the community (later this will become an essen-
tial principle in the Shi’a). The leader was not to be Muhammad’s replace-
ment but his successor, both politically and religiously. 24
The Imamate theology created a unique and pure doctrine, which is
documented and refers to the imams’ traditions and hadiths and, later
on, this will give the Shi’i Ulama the ability to govern the community
on behalf of the imams. The importance and idealism of the religious

The Story of the Shi’a
separation from the Sunnis psychologically strengthened the Shi’a raison
d’être, which is enveloped in a messianic eschatology and their ultimate
need for a religious leader (the Mahdi), something that has given the Shi’a
the ability to create an idealistic (but not a really religiously legitimated)
replacement of the imams. 25
The Shi’a Religion’s Traditions
In addition to the pillars of the Shiite faith, there are also a number of cus-
toms that developed in the course of time. One such custom is the month
of Muharram being devoted to the holy martyrs of the Shi’a. This month
is also devoted to remembering the death of the third imam, Hussein, in
the heroic battle that took place in Karbala where 72 of his followers were
killed for the sake of the Shi’a and their absolute conviction that Shi’a was
the true Islamic religion and should lead the Islamic world. The pilgrimage
made by the Shi’a holy men is a special Shiite custom wherein they visit
the holy Shiite shrines, most of which are located in Iraq (and one in Iran).
The Shiite believers visit these sites according to the faith that the imams
buried there have the power to present their pleas to God. 26 Although the
pilgrimage to Karbala and Najaf is not compulsory in Shi’ism, it is consid-
ered to be highly commendable and cherished.
Celebrations and Holidays in Islam
E’id al-Fitr, which celebrates the end of the Ramadan, is also called
1.
the “small holy day” and is celebrated over three days. The month
of Ramadan does not always take place on the same date since the
Islamic year is based on lunar months and leap year customs are
forbidden in Islam. The source of the commandment to fast in the
Quran is found in the second chapter— Surat al-Baqarah (The Cow;
the longest Sura in the Quran)—and the reference is found in verses
183–187. The fast is a complete fast from morning till evening—
from sunrise to sunset. There is, however, no prohibition of conju-
gality (but only at night), work is allowed, and eating and drinking
are also permitted at night, but moderation and humility have to be
preserved. 27
The last ten days of the Ramadan are called the
2.
i’ticaf and these are
days of seclusion. The devout Muslim remains in the mosque where

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
he prays for long hours, night and day. People exempt from the fast
are sick people, pregnant women, children under 13 years old, peo-
ple on a journey, and soldiers at war. The twenty-seventh night of
the Ramadan is called  Lailat ul-Qadr or the “night of power” when
all destinies—for life and death—are decreed by the Creator and
noted in the Book.

3. E’id al-Adha , the “festival of the sacrifice,” marks the end of the pil-
grimage period. It is celebrated over four days from the tenth day of
the  Dhu al-Hijjah , which is the last month of the Islamic calendar.
The pilgrimage to Mecca takes about a week and the festival of the
sacrifice is one of the religious high points among the pilgrimage
ceremonies. Those that celebrate at home hold a ceremony similar to
the one taking place that day in Mecca, and this ceremony is based
on the offering of a lamb as sacrifice, its preparation for the feast, or
giving it to the poor.
On the feast of the sacrifice, just as with other customs that have been
inspired by Judaism, a link exists between the feast and the story of the
sacrifice of Ishmael, which is the Muslim equivalent of the sacrifice of
Yitzhak found in the Book of Genesis. The Quran mentions how Abraham
was preparing to sacrifice his son (one of several biblical stories found in
the Quran) and, according to Islamic commentaries on the Quran, the
son was Ishmael and not Yitzhak—thus the name of the feast. In the
story the prophet Abraham dreamed one night that he was preparing his
son (Ishmael according to the Muslims) as a sacrifice to God (similar to
the sacrifice of Yitzhak in Judaism). Abraham was willing to materialize
this dream and went to the Arafat mountain (located on the outskirts of
Mecca) where he was ready to slaughter his son as a sacrifice (as was the
case with the biblical story of Yitzhak on Mt. Moriah—later the Temple
Mount) to show the power of his faith in God. God, however, saw him and
sent a sheep that Abraham slaughtered instead of his son.
Shiite Festivities
1. The day of  ‘Ashura : The source of ‘Ashura derives from the word “Assor”
(tenth in Hebrew). Already, in the times of the Prophet, Muhammad
adopted the Jewish custom of fasting on the tenth day of the first month,
which, for the Jews, is the fast of Yom Kippur in the month of  Tishrei (the
first Hebrew month). The first Muslim community adopted this custom
but, after his dispute with the Jews, Muhammad changed this custom and

The Story of the Shi’a
moved it to the tenth day of the Muharram month, which is the first month
of the Islamic year. According to Shiite tradition, this is the national day
of mourning, which commemorates the murder of Imam Hussein Ibn Ali.
His death symbolizes martyrdom, his sense of sacrifice, and his resistance
to the repression exerted by the Sunnis against the Shiites.
On the ‘Ashura day of the year 61 of the Hijra (October 10, 680  c.e. )
Hussein, Ali’s youngest son and Muhammad’s grandson, decided to claim
authority over the Muslim community from the Umayyad caliph Yazīd
Ibn Mu‘āwiya who had seized power after Ali’s assassination. Hussein’s
supporters were Shiites who were convinced that the caliphate should
only be in the hands of Muhammad’s family. Hussein led his followers to
Karbala and Kufa but Yazīd Ibn Mu‘āwiya’s supporters sent a large army
to fight against him. 28
2. The Shiite mourning customs:
(a)  Ta’zieh is a procession of grief in which the crowd calls Hussein
by his name. These mourning congregations also protest against
the Umayyad Dynasty from which Yazīd Ibn Mu‘āwiya originated
and against the three caliphs who preceded Ali and supposedly stole
the caliphate and the rule over Islam from him. The demonstra-
tion of grief of these particular Shiites resulted in tensions between
the Shiites and the Sunnis. This escalated and turned into violence
during political conflicts between Sunnis and Shiites, especially in
places where these communities lived side by side such as in south-
ern Iraq and southern Lebanon. Modern Shi’a scholars have declared
that self-flagellation and wounding rites are forbidden by their reli-
gion and cause damage to the image of the Shiites. The opposition
of Shi’a scholars to these ceremonies of grief aimed at doing damage
to the human body has not been accepted in all the Middle East
Shiite communities and, today, most Shiites are very strict about
preserving these rites that very clearly and symbolically distinguish
between the Sunnis and the Shiites. 29
(b)  Arba’een, which means 40, is the Shiite memorial day that takes
place on the twentieth day of the month of Safar, 40 days after the
‘Ashura fast, the mourning day for the death of Imam Hussein Ibn
Ali. 30 According to Islam this is the first memorial day that takes
place 40 days after the date of the death of Hussein Ibn Ali. The
Shiites dedicate the Arba’een to the courage of Hussein and his fol-
lowers who marched into Karbala to face an impossible reality. The
Shiites believe that the resistance of Hussein to the unjust Umayya
rule and the decision to fight them, despite the fact that he knew

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
he would die, proved his deep devotion to justice and to the righ-
teousness of Islam; and during the following centuries the Shiites
tried to rebel against Sunni rule many times. The Arba’een was first
celebrated in 681  a.c. (62  a.h. ), a year after the death of Hussein in
the battle of Karbala, and one of the customs of the Arba’een is the
pilgrimage of the Shiites to the city of Karbala in Iraq—the third
holiest city for Shiite Islam. On this day the Shiite believers crawl
along the streets of Karbala or fall to their knees when they approach
the tombs of Hussein and his brother Abass Ibn Ali.
(c)  E’id Ghadir-Khum is celebrated on the eighteenth day of the month
of Dhu al-Hijjah to commemorate the Ghadir-Khum that took place
ten years  a.h. and is regarded to be the day on which Muhammad
appointed Ali as his legal successor. 31 According to Shiite tradition,
on the last Hajj before his death, Prophet Muhammad accompanied
his followers to the Ghadir-Khum crossroads and there, before an
immense crowd of passersby, announced that his son-in-law Ali was
his future heir. The Shi’a verse 67 of The Table Spread Sura (Sura 5)
is the verse of investiture and verse 3 in the same Sura, the last sen-
tence uttered by Muhammad in the Quran, is also said on this same
occasion in Ghadir-Khum.
(d)  Mawlid an-Nabī is the birthday of both the Prophet Muhammad
and the sixth imam, Ja’far al-Sadiq, on April 20, 702 (the seven-
teenth day of the month of Rabi’ al-Awwal, 83  a.h. ).
(i)  Mid-Sha’aban is the birthday of the last imam—Muhammad
al-Mahdī—on the fifteenth day of Shaaban, the eighth month. This
celebration is of Sunni origin and marks the day when God remem-
bered Noah and the Ark’s inhabitants and ended the deluge. On this
day God decided the purpose of Man and his life on Earth and also
people’s destiny in life or death. In contrast, for the Shiites, it is the
day of the birth of the last imam, the Hidden Imam. Only the date
of his birth is celebrated because he did not die but was only taken
away until the day God decides to rescue mankind.
The Mahdi and the Imamate—The Birth of
a New Theological Shi’a Ontology
Who is the Mahdi?
According to the Shiite theological concept the Mahdi is the Messiah who
will redeem the world from its suffering and will bring Islam to all of

The Story of the Shi’a
humanity, but the Sunnis and the Shiites diverge on the issue of who the
Mahdi is. Is he Sunni or Shiite? And on behalf of whom will he rule the
world? Although the concept of the Mahdi does not appear in the Quran
itself, the Shiites still adopted this concept in all its complexity.
As in Judaism, which believes in the arrival of the Messiah, and
Christianity, which believes the same or, rather, in the second coming of
Jesus, Shiite Islam nurtures the belief that the redemption of Islamic soci-
ety in particular and of society in general will be achieved only when the
Mahdi—the Messiah of the world—comes one of these days. The Quran
adopted from Judaism and Christianity the idea of a Judgment Day, the
notions of the resurrection of the dead, of Heaven and Hell, and the belief
that before the Day of Judgment numerous wars will take place in the
world ( the wars of Gog and  Magog ); but in this case, God will be the one to
judge the world and not the Messiah.
As mentioned earlier the term “Mahdi” neither appears in the Quran nor
in the Sunni texts. The concept of a man who has come to save the world is
not acceptable to the Sunni mainstream as they believe that Muhammad is
the last prophet and it is impossible for anyone to come after him and res-
cue the world. They believe the world’s redemption will come though the
observation of the laws of the Quran and of God’s commandments in the
Quran. Similarly to the Jewish belief that the Messiah will be the descen-
dant of King David and the Christian belief in the second coming of Jesus,
the Shiites consider the Mahdi to be the direct offspring of Muhammad
(through the imams). Some Sunni streams who believe in the Mahdi say
that he has not been born yet in contrast to the Shi’a who believe that he
is here hiding somewhere.
The Development of the Faith in the
Mahdi as the Messiah of the Shiites—
The Hidden Imam
According to the Shiite tradition the prophet Muhammad said: “The world
will not end until one of my offspring, bearing my name is the master of
the world. When you see a green flag coming from Khorasan, join them
because God will call El-Mahdi.” In order to provide this myth with shape
and content, the Shi’a described him and his glory.
The story of the Hidden Imam even begins during the life of his
father and grandfather when the eyes of the Abbasid Caliphate focused
on the developing Shiite community in general, and on its leaders in

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
particular—especially on the imams. The Abbasid pressure on the Shiite
imams was especially strong during the rule of the tenth and eleventh
imams, Imam Ali al-Hadi and Imam Hassan al-‘Askarī, respectively, and
the Abbasids exiled them from Kufa where they lived and settled them in a
military camp in Samarra to closely follow their activities and the commu-
nity. On the other hand, the imams understood that if they did not hide or
escape, the dynasty of Shiite imams would be in real danger.
The Hidden Imam is the twelfth imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi, who
was born in Samarra in Iraq in 869 (according to others, in 868 32 ). His
mother was the offspring of a Roman ruler named Narjes Hatin 33 and,
according to the Shiite faith, the baby Muhammad was hidden from the
eyes of the Abbasid Dynasty, which might have harmed him, and only very
few people were allowed to see the child-imam. When he was five years
old (others say seven years old) his father, the imam Hassan al-‘Askarī,
died and, despite his young age, Muhammad was recognized as the next
imam. According to the Shi’a, on the same day as his father’s funeral, the
new imam disappeared and the Shiites claim that the Abbasid Caliph,
al-Mu’tamid, who wanted to seize the imam, sent messengers to his home
to capture him but could not find him.
The Shi’a divides the Occultation of the twelfth imam into two main
periods: the Minor Occultation ( Ghayba al-Sughra ) that began in 873 with
the Occultation of the Twelfth Imam, and the Major Occultation in 941
when one of the Hidden Imam’s messengers died ( Bab ,  Safir ). The Shiite
faith says that the Mahdi was taken away by God from the eyes of man-
kind and that sometimes, according to masters of the occult, he comes to
guide lovers of Islam and teaches them how to protect themselves from the
enemies of Islam. Another belief says that the imam is alive and instructs
his followers when needed.
The Minor Occultation— Ghayba al-Sughra
(873–941)
According to another opinion, when the little eleventh imam died his fol-
lowers felt the necessity to hide him from the Abbasid Dynasty but, despite
the fact that he was hidden from people since the age of five, he communi-
cated with his followers through four messengers (not simultaneously but
one after the other). In opposition to the Shi’a, the Sunnis claim that the
twelfth imam did not exist at all and that only the messengers, who in fact
were the Shiite leaders, supposedly governed on his behalf. The four mes-
sengers (deputies) were: Uthman Ibn Sa’id al-’Amri (873–874) who gov-
erned for 1 year, Abu Ja’far Muhammad Ibn Uthman al-A’mri (874–916)

The Story of the Shi’a
for 42 years, Abul Qasim Husayn Ibn Ruh al-Nawbakhti (916–937) for
21 years, and Abul Hassan Ali Ibn Muhammad al-Samarri (937–940) for
3 years—a total of 67 years during the absence of the last imam. 34
The Major Occultation— Ghayba al-Kubra
(941–Present)
In fact there is no evidence of the death and burial of the twelfth imam
and it is currently believed that he disappeared after the death of the fourth
messenger. Some of the followers think that the imam ascended to Heaven
and that he will return in due time when the Creator decides it is time to
come and redeem the world. According to another belief, the imam never
left Earth and that, if the Mahdi had not been here, the world would have
already been corrupted. The Shiites are convinced that during the rule
of Alī al-Hādī, the tenth imam already knew that his grandson would be
hidden from the eyes of his followers and the reason why they (the last
two imams) were sent away was so that the Shiite community would get
used to this anticipated absence (according to Shiite belief, God did this
so that the disappearance would be precipitated by the Abbasid Dynasty).
Although his son, Hassan al-’Askarī, was already in a state of almost total
detachment from the large Shiite community and was seen only by those
very close to him, the deep chasm of the major occultation only came with
his son—Muhammad al-Mahdi.
The Shiite Believer during the
Major Occultation
The question that, therefore, needs to be asked is: Why didn’t the twelfth
and last imam save the world? The answer is that, on the one hand, the
occultation was an attempt to keep Ali’s seed safe from annihilation by
the Abbasid Dynasty. On the other hand, however, the Shiite faith claims
that the occultation was mainly meant to train the Shiite believers for
the Day of Judgment, when the Shi’a, with the Mahdi as leader, would
rule the world. In any case, this occultation was to be long and this was
the way it was supposed to be since the Mahdi wanted to test the Shiite
believers and see whether they would observe total faith on his return or
just ignore him. In other words, this was to be a process of filtering out
all the nonbelievers when the Mahdi ultimately joined the devout Shiite
community.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
One of the main issues of concern for the Shiite religious leaders, espe-
cially during the first period following the start of the major occultation
period, was the following question: If there is no imam, or someone else,
acting on his behalf ( Bab or  Safir ), is heading the Shiite community in
the world, then how should the Shiite believer behave? Since only the
imam was considered to be the worthy and legitimate leader, the Shiite
community had to deal with the dilemma of how to behave both under a
hostile regime (meaning a rule that was not Shiite) and within their own
community.
According to another approach, the believer should act individually to
bring back the imam, for the private individual has to consider the return
of the Mahdi as something that depends on his own deeds; this means fol-
lowing the imam’s deeds such as expecting redemption, observing the com-
mandments, giving charity, praying with devotion, and remaining faithful
to the Ali Dynasty. All these acts will make the Mahdi come sooner.
Moreover, on a collective basis, the Shiite community should remain pas-
sive in all that concerns government or in governing themselves. The com-
munity should remain submissive under a foreign Islamic rule (Sunni or
other) and persevere in their suffering until the Mahdi comes to save them
from the tyranny of the Sunni.
There is another contrasting approach that claims a passive attitude will
not bring the Mahdi closer and will even keep him away. In other words,
the Shiite believer and the Shiite community should be active in encourag-
ing the Mahdi’s arrival. More than that, the individual Shiite believer and
his community should work together to build an autonomous Shiite entity
under a Shiite rule that imposes on the Shiite community the Quran and
the Sharia’ authority and the religious Shiite commandments; and that this
is the only way to hasten the arrival of the Mahdi. This raises the question
of how it can be done. How can the Shiite community achieve these goals
under a foreign or hostile regime?
Indeed this struggle is crucial. The Muslim believer, and surely the
Shiite, has to consider his actions as part of the cosmic struggle of good
against evil, which is an eternal, uncompromising fight against the mala-
dies of this world. This battle will be won by defeating heresy and evil,
first in the Islamic community and then in the world in general. The com-
munity has to fight against corruption (a prominent motive, e.g., in the
Iranian Islamic Revolution), struggle against materialism and against eco-
nomic and social exploitation in the world.
The Shi’a also know how to pinpoint the period in which the Hidden
Imam will come or is supposed to come. According to the Shiite faith,
the Shiite believers will suffer the burden of being under a corrupt power.
Epidemics will exterminate large parts of populations, not only within

The Story of the Shi’a
the Shiite community but also throughout the world; the world commu-
nities will become disappointed in the various regimes and ideologies—
democracy, Marxism, anarchy, dictatorship, and so on; and there will be a
readiness for the  tawhid (the belief in one God). There will be unnatural
changes with the sun rising in the West, loud voices emanating from the
sky, the eclipse of the sun in mid-Ramadan, and the eclipse of the moon at
the end of the Ramadan. After all this the Mahdi is supposed to come and
bring salvation from their historical exploitation to the Shiite community
and bestow the Shi’a cult on the whole world.
Another question that arises is how the reality of the End of the Days
will look after the arrival of the Mahdi since the Shiite community has
never experienced an ideal situation in which the imams ruled peace-
fully, without persecution. With the new reality of the Mahdi’s arrival,
how will the new Islamic community behave under a Shiite government:
as is written in the Quran, or according to a new approach? Here again,
in regard to this issue, the Shi’a has managed to divide reality according
to concrete parameters (observing the Prophet’s ways, the Quran, and
the hadith) and has also established an alternative way for the Shiite
scholars to rethink the reality of the End of the Days. According to the
classical approach of adhering to Islam, the new reality mainly touches
upon monotheistic religions such as Judaism and Christianity. This issue
does not concern pagans since they shall be exterminated if they do not
convert to Islam.
The first approach toward the monotheist religions is based on “life
goes on,” which means that if, when the Mahdi comes, the Jews and
Christian do not convert, the Islamic community will behave with them
as they did before. The Jews and Christians will submit to Islamic rule,
will be submissive, and will pay a lump-sum tax for their right to live
like this. According to this approach, the Mahdi will judge the Jews
and the Christians according to their own rules (the Bible and the New
Testament). The second approach claims that Islam (Shiite Islam, of
course) will be offered to all monotheists and those who refuse to convert
shall be sentenced to death.
What Will Happen under the
Rule of the Mahdi?
The rule of the Mahdi will be neither sectorial nor local but will embrace
the whole world, which will be led by Islam, and all laws will derive from the
Quran and the Sharia’. During the stage of revelation all humankind will

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
fully believe in God and in His messengers with no hypocrisy or flattery.
The concept of “nation” will be abolished and everyone will live under a
worldwide Islamic regime. World wealth will be divided equally between all
people and there will be no racial, language, or cultural discrimination since
everybody will be Muslim. The world will be led everywhere by the Mahdi’s
deputies and real wisdom will be brought to the world by the Mahdi. The
Mahdi himself will die after seven years (or nine or eleven or seventy) fol-
lowing the establishment of the new rule. (See the Baha’i concepts in
chapter three.)
Shaping the Shi’a according to the
Belief in the Mahdi
Sunni theologians claim that the development of belief in the Mahdi
among the Shiite community derives mainly from their basic need to be
dependent on a supreme being that will save them from continuous per-
secution by the various Sunni leaders. Beyond this global vision, the Shi’a
also aimed to strengthen the spirit of the individual and thus give him the
positive goals of self-salvation and the salvation of his community (while
taking serious vengeance against their historical Sunni enemy) based on
the total belief in the Mahdi.
The Shiites consider themselves a persecuted minority that risk exter-
mination following any rebellion against the ruler of any country they
settle in (whether Sunni or not). This is the reason why the Shiites devel-
oped this anticipation of the Mahdi, lowered the profile of their commu-
nity, and maintained a reserved attitude regarding the Islamic rule of all
Islamic communities. Any human revolution not led by the Mahdi would
be deemed to failure and—as the Mahdi is not human and will be sent by
God—no revolution led by him could possibly fail.
Until then, however, the Shiite community has had to live in a solid,
but also persecuted community, and both alternatives have required other
leaders to carry on the Mahdi’s task till his arrival. One of the most inter-
esting issues about which so much has been written is the question of what
will happen with the religious authority of the twelfth imam, the Mahdi.
Who will take the reins and lead the community until he comes? This is a
fundamental question since any leadership of the Shiite community that is
not carried out by a proper religious leader is an illegitimate regime. That is
to say, a secular leader (or even a religious Sunni) who leads the community
according to his own desires will be very close to injustice and exploitation
of the individual. Any other human method of government, which is not

The Story of the Shi’a
based on religion according to the Islamic Sharia’ and the Shiite hadith,
will be doomed to fail.
According to the Shiite faith, the leader (Shi’i, Sunni, or any other)
should enable the Shiite community to duly observe its own customs and
religion. More than that, such a leader has to obey the religious Shiite
leaders, and if he does not, it is the obligation of the Shiite community to
rebel and overturn him. On the other hand, the Sunnis claim that a bad
Muslim leader is better than a good infidel, provided there is no anarchy
where everyone does what he feels like. This approach belongs to the activ-
ist stream who state that the ground should be forcibly prepared for the
arrival of the Mahdi. They believe that the Mahdi is already on Earth and
is enduring the suffering of his community. In order to save the Mahdi
from this injustice, the community has to act to correct the ruling and
religious evils within their Shiite community, the Islamic community, and
the whole world. 35

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 2
The Revival of the Shi’a
after the Qajars
Making a link between Shi’a theology and Shi’a politics, filtering this
through the history of centuries, and compressing all this into a few chap-
ters is not an easy task, but it will enable us to come to a better understand-
ing of the evolutionary process that the Shi’a has gone through during the
past centuries, especially since the collapse of the Safavid Empire. The com-
position of the religious and political elements of the Safavid enabled the
coming religious generations to shape and sharpen the Shi’a into what we
know it to be today. Nevertheless, we cannot completely ignore the Safavid
period, and we shall use it as a platform to improve our understanding of
the religious developments during and after the Qajari period.
Until the beginning of the sixteenth century, with the rise of the Safavid
Dynasty, the Shi’a of Persia (Iran) was fighting for its survival and the
avoidance of self-construction. The distance from the main events in the
Sunni world, despite centuries of wars and conflicts between the Sunni
Arabs of the Arab territories and the Persian-Sunni-Shi’i territories, made
it possible for Iran to come more and more under Shi’a influence, espe-
cially after the collapse of the Abbasid Empire in 1258 a.d. This enabled
its clerics and the Ulama of that region to expand the influence of the
Shi’a over the Persian natives, and for many years they saw themselves as a
contrast and as an alternative to the Arab conquerors—culturally, linguis-
tically, and religiously.
Since we are not going to deal with the history of the Safavid in this
chapter we should bear in mind the philosophical and cognitive process of
maturation that the Shi’a underwent from the time of its creation till the
establishment of the Safavid Empire. This maturity enabled the rulers to

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
share the political field with Shi’i clerics who, for the first time in Shi’a
history after the Occultation, were able to hold political positions in a Shi’i
state. This innovative practice was due to two main factors, the first being
the reality of the circumstances that forced the Safavid rulers and the cler-
ics to cooperate in order to build a new independent state that had to face
challenges inside and outside of Persia. The second was the intellectual and
religious development of thought within the religious milieu and elites that
enabled them to find a religious path that would allow them to be a part
of the Safavid Empire’s political system. Even the declaration of Shi’a as
the state’s religion made a contribution at this time to self-determination as
Shia was a different entity from the Sunni Arabs. This led to a sharpening
of the religious consciousness as Shiites who should and could govern the
state and, in reality, created a new identity. 1
Between the Qajars and Pahlavi—
Rethinking the Clergy’s Place inside
Iranian Society and Politics
The fall of the Safavid Dynasty brought about the weakening, and even
the total rupture, of the links and affinities that had existed between reli-
gious leaders and the political system. This dynasty had established the
Shi’a as a national religion and even managed to insert religious leaders
into its administration, who, in fact, became state employees in a system
that was very similar to the status and appointment of Sunni religious
leaders within the Ottoman Empire. Under the Safavid Dynasty, the
Shiite community had enjoyed both political and religious control but
with the decline of the political center of the Safavid Dynasty in 1722,
the Shiite community lost its political power and, as a consequence of the
fall of the Safavids, the issues regarding the link between religion and
state gained urgency among religious leaders. These issues were debated
by two essential schools—the Akhbariyya and Usuliyya—each of whom
tried to deal with the traditional Shiite concept of religion and state.
While focusing on this issue they sharpened their eschatological points
of view about the Imamate and the expectation of the Mahdi’s arrival.
Mirza Muhammad Amin Astarabadi’s texts, in particular his book about
the essence of the Akhbariyya— al-Fawa’id al-Madaniyya , were the basic
writings of the Akhbariyya. On the other hand, the Usuliyya was led
by the Mujtahed Nur al-Din Amili and were influenced by his book
al-Fawa’id al-Makkiyya . 2

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
The main difference between the two schools was that the Akhbaris
“asserted that ordinary Muslims should read and interpret the holy texts
for themselves without the need for intermediaries” 3 and denied both
the rational proof ( al-adilla al-’aqliyya ) and the legitimacy and practice
of  ijtihad . Instead of this, they preferred to stress the importance of the
“sole recourse in judicial arbitration to the revealed sources, especially
the  akhbar of the Imams.” 4 This logic is very close to the Sunnis’ under-
standing of the notion of “closure of the door of Ijtihad,” which had been
done by Abu Bakr Muhammad ibn ‘Ali ibn Isma’il Ash-Shāshī (known
as al-Qaffāl al-Kabīr—the Locksmith). On the other side were the Usulis
who rejected the Akhbari doctrine by saying “that authoritative interpre-
tation ( ijtihad ) on the basis of reason was necessary; and required exten-
sive scholarly training, which could only be achieved by specially talented
scholars among the ulama, called  mojtaheds .” 5
The Akhbari School was on the rise during the Safavid era and only
with its collapse could the Usuli School regain and win religious leader-
ship. As mentioned earlier, the Usuli granted the Ulama the authority to
“give legal opinions ( fatwas ) and hence intervene in social areas,” both
theoretically and practically. Moreover, it “enabled the emergence of a
powerful leadership of the Twelver ulama through the emergence of the
positions of  marja’ al-taqlid , leading to the present day hierarchy involving
the rank of Hujjat al-Islam, Ayatullah, and Grand Ayatullah . . . ” 6 This
method of interpretation, which relied on the use of  usul (principle), gave
the mujtaheds the ability to expand the debate on political-religious rela-
tions, which would express itself during the Qajar era.
Following the collapse of the Safavids, however, and the absence of a
high authority that would install religious leaders into the government, the
Akhbariyya managed to expand mostly beyond Iran’s borders but, aside
from a few pockets in Bahrain and southern Iraq, no trace is left today of
the Akhbariyya. The Usuliyya School remained on the defensive until the
arrival of the mujtahed Aqa Mohammad Baqir Bihbahani (1705–1791)
who strengthened its image. Bihbahani’s main treatise was in fact a contra-
diction of the Akhbariyya text— al-Fawa’id al-Madaniyya —substituting
it with the  al-Fawa’id al-Usuliyya . The main thesis of the book was that
religious leaders should serve as Islamic judges as well as being in charge of
the implementation of religious laws. (These same things were postulated
two hundred years later by Khomeini. 7 )
Zackery M. Heern in his dissertation writes that Bihbahani was the
one “to put an end to the Akhbari-Usuli dispute” and is known as “the
person who liberated Shi’ism from the stifling Akhbari school of thought
that was dominant in Iraq for much of the eighteenth century.” In his
struggle against the Akhbaris, Heern writes, “Bihbihani and his followers

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
established the dominance of the rationalist Usuli school of thought”;
Heern goes on to say that the important consequence of the Usuli victory
was that the “clerics played a more central role in Shi’i society and the cleri-
cal hierarchy became more stratified.”
Heern continues on to draw the following conclusions about the Usuli
School Shi’ism and writes that “the powerful position of Shi’i clerics con-
tinued throughout the nineteenth century” and that “the Iranian govern-
ment’s [of the Pahlavis] subsequent attempts at secularizing Iranian society
in the twentieth century seemed to have curbed the influence of the Usuli
establishment until the Islamic revolution in Iran in 1979, which brought
Usuli clerics to power.” 8
The Usuliyya rise in Iran was not accidental. The dialectics of
power will always work in a country with three strong religious cur-
rents (Akhbariyya, Usuliyya, and Sufis). In this case, as well, the clas-
sical Akhbariyya ideology supported the concept of the religious leader
remaining outside the political arena. The Usuliyya School adherents, at
the end of the eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth,
found a new momentum with the rise of the Qajar Dynasty to power.
Between the Safavids’ collapse and the rise of the Qajar the country suf-
fered almost a century of religious and political anarchy and, in this situ-
ation, even the new Qajar rule, which tried to hold the country under a
very tight and organized administration by receiving legitimate religious
support, could not deal with the increasing strength of the Usuliyya. The
Usuliyya and the Qajar held on together so as to survive and develop and,
for this very purpose, the government appointed religious leaders on its
behalf to be the  Sheikh ul-Islam and the  Imam Jume . 9
The Usuliyya decree was crucial for the Shiite religious process and the
use of the  ijtihad (Muslim jurisprudence) provided the Usuliyya religious
leaders with a spiritual and religious dimension. Thus the religious leaders
considered themselves to be the direct successors of the Hidden Imam and
his substitutes in religion (adjudication) and politics (Islamic law enforce-
ment). In addition Usuliyya Islamic jurisprudence was not limited to inter-
nal community issues but also dealt with crucial global questions such as
nationalism and politics. 10 While religious leaders enjoyed a special status
in political life during the Safavid and post-Safavid periods, the rise of
the Qajars brought about a change in their political influence, one that
proved to be beneficial at the end. The initial cooperation between the
political and religious leaders deteriorated during a period of separation of
religion and state, but this separation brought about a religious autonomy
that provided the leaders with exceptional power over the Shiite commu-
nity because their strength came from the people rather than from being
appointed by the Qajar Dynasty. 11

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
The rise of the Qajars led the religious leaders to reconsider the legiti-
macy of the new regime, to examine whether it corresponded to the religious
reality of the time, and, not least, to reconsider the political perspectives
of the Qajar regime. The Ulama-Regime relationship was analyzed by the
Ulama through two main points of view. The first concerned the current
existential circumstances and the second focused on the basic recogni-
tion of the regime and its characteristics. In principle, the religious leaders
believed in protecting the nation, especially from foreign invasion, and this
position characterized their national views regarding the Qajar Dynasty
throughout their rule (and afterward). On the other hand, this was artifi-
cial support rather than real recognition of the regime and its religious val-
ues (in other words seeing the regime’s activities through a religious prism).
It should be mentioned that the traditional concept of the clergy regarding
government in any Shiite regime is concerned with whether it is founded
on the representation of the Hidden Imam or not. Nevertheless, religious
leaders supported the regime passively as long as it defended national and,
of course, religious interests. The defense of the Islamic motherland was
an important value according to their vision ( jihad being a pillar of Shiite
faith) and this was their way to religiously and legally describe the com-
plexity of the monarchy as a worthwhile regime and as a defense of reli-
gious interests. 12
In fact, throughout the existence of the Qajar Empire, there were strug-
gles between religious leaders and the monarchy. Indeed, the power of the
clergy arose from their disconnection from political institutions and, in
many cases, they led public protests that forced the shah to cancel certain
decrees that were not applicable to the Shiite religious nature of the Qajar
nation. 13 Most of the religious leaders, if not all of them, originated from
the Usuliyya School and, toward the end of the nineteenth century, the
differences between the king and the religious leaders only deepened. The
climax came with Ayatollah Shirazi’s boycott of tobacco and, later, with
the Constitutional Revolution that took place between 1905 and 1906. 14
The religious leaders used the same principles offered by the Constitutional
Revolution to maintain their power within the community and to reduce
the influence of the shah.
Moaddel, in his article “Shi’i Political Discourse and Class Mobilization
in the Tobacco Movement of 1890–1892,” mentions that the tobacco boy-
cott of 1890–1892 resulted in the strengthening of the religious leaders
and their efforts to infiltrate the political life of the Qajar nation. The
article indicates the reasons for the weakness of the Qajar Empire, which
left an apparent government vacuum that was ready to be filled by reli-
gious leaders. The author makes three observations regarding the rise
of Shiite Islam in the nineteenth century. The first is based on the early

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Shiite Islam theory stating that an Islamic and Shiite regime should be
in the hands of the imams descending from Prophet Muhammed’s fam-
ily (or its representatives). The second involves the rise of political Shiite
Islam due to the weakness of the Qajar regime (power dialectics), and the
last one is “the  de facto separation, yet mutual reinforcement, of political
and Shiite hierocratic domination in the Qajar polity.” Moaddel adds that
the tobacco boycott was in fact a struggle of the religious leaders against
British colonial domination. 15
There is more than one reasonable explanation for this hypothesis.
For instance, the religious leaders, already an autonomous religious entity
enjoying the political and financial support of their community, consid-
ered the foreign British monopoly over tobacco to be a financial danger
to their followers and to themselves. The  mujtaheds (Ayatollahs) were as
obligated to their community as the community was committed to them.
Moreover, from the religious point of view, the administration of the
tobacco industry by a foreign body, even one not considered agnostic by
Islam, was deemed “impure.” Another point not mentioned by Moaddel
is that the rise of religious leaders was on its way well before the Tobacco
Rebellion. 16 This uprising was an effective platform for, on the one hand,
the establishing and strengthening of the monarchy’s image and its power
and, on the other hand, the refining and underlining of the rising power
of the religious leaders—in particular those of the Usuliyya School that
supported the political-religious-Shi’a administration of the country. The
clergy could not have hoped for a better opportunity to demonstrate to the
royal government where the real power was; and this was accompanied by
the increasing erosion of their social and religious (apparent) authority,
through the limitations placed by the government on their judicial and
educational autonomy.
Moaddel tries to both classify the various opinions he presents and pro-
vide his own comment. According to him one thesis maintains that the
religious leaders (the Ulama) used their power as interpreters of religion and
that all their acts were based on the fact that they were Shiite religious lead-
ers (devoid of any independent political opinions). Another thesis argues
that “the Ulama are coterminous with Shi’ism, and the dynamics of Shi’a
Islam, as a world religion, is reduced to the dynamics of Ulama action.”
Moaddel’s own view is that the Shi’a and the religious leaders were two
separate categories. In other words, the clergy was an interest group that was
different from the Shi’a, and this was not the ideology of the Ulama or of
any other group—such as the merchants, for instance. 17 Moaddel concludes
that the merchants used the religious leaders to achieve their own goals. 18
We might agree with Moaddel’s argument that the Shi’a was not an ide-
ology or that, to a certain extent, religious leaders represented an interest

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
group but it is more difficult to accept the separation theory regarding
the case that he chose to analyze—the tobacco boycott. As mentioned,
the boycott was only a tool to realize Shiite religious ideas. The increas-
ing power of the religious leaders did not originate from this boycott but
it did gain from it. The Qajar Dynasty did not integrate religious leaders
into its administration so the religious leaders began advancing their reli-
gious interests by themselves acting with no governmental support and, in
this way, they imposed their authority on the country’s Shiite population.
During the Qajar rule the religious leaders managed to convince the shah
to cancel several decrees, laws, and acts opposed to their religious views
and this was possible because of their autonomous power and control over
the population of believers.
The debate between the religious leaders during the Qajar Dynasty and,
more precisely, between the Akhbariyya and the Usuliyya was, in fact,
the outcome of the contemporary discussion that focused on the actual
situation of the nation. The debate extended to more fundamental issues
regarding the constitutional and religious authority of each side, meaning
the Hadith or the Shiite Shari’a (Ja’fari School). They diverged not on the
question of “whether” but rather on “how.” The Shiite conceptual split
between the Shaykhiya and the Usuliyya was not totally evident as both
believed that the Hidden Imam, even if not physically there, was still rul-
ing the Shiite community and each, in its philosophy, tried to interpret
the absence of the Hidden Imam with legal and spiritual instruments that
would allow them to be leaders of the Shiite community. The Babism that
appeared in the middle of the nineteenth century managed to momen-
tarily unite both groups that had decided to clean the Iranian territory
from this sect and this gave a different significance to the bond between
the believer and the Hidden Imam. It also strived to create a very differ-
ent religious-spiritual reality, which was totally different from the classical
Shi’a both within the Shaykhiya and the Usuliyya Schools. Babism tried to
insert a change mostly on the spiritual and metaphysical levels (see  chapter
three ). The reunification of the religious leaders in Iran and their attempt
to join the Qajar rule was the result of their fear of a far-reaching innova-
tion proposed by Babism and later by the offspring of Babism: the Baha’i
religion.
The impact of Babism on the Shiite religion in the second half of the
nineteenth century was apparently more of a blessing than a curse. It
emerged at a time when religious leaders in both schools came to under-
stand that they were undergoing essential internal processes at the same
time that the Qajar nation itself was going through structural, constitu-
tional, westernizing, and modernizing changes. The theological debate
between the Shaykhiya and the Usuliyya, each of which was conducting

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
an uncompromising struggle against Babism, and later against the Baha’i,
led the entire Shiite religious community to perform a fundamental
soul-searching, which culminated in their release from their political mas-
ters (the Qajar Dynasty) and from the issues concerning Iranian national
identity (at least till the end of the nineteenth century). 19
In fact, the development of Babism and then Baha’ism proves that the
existing tension within the Shi’a itself regarding the dimension of the imam
as emissary was the basis for these messianic movements. The readiness of the
Shiite religious leaders (from the Shaykhiya) to challenge traditional thought
regarding the absence of the imam triggered a chain reaction that would,
on the one hand, give rise to these movements and, on the other, open up
the issue of the  Vilaya , thus developing the Usuliyya movement, which sup-
ported granting greater power and legal authority to the mujtahed. 20
Religious leaders who lived during the Qajar period succeeded through
the  ijtihad enquiry method to reach the obvious, although hesitant, con-
clusion that their presence as part of the ideological political process,
although impractical at that stage, derived from their status as the rep-
resentatives (deputies) of the Hidden Imam on Earth. These mujtaheds
found references in the Shiite Shari’a (Hadiths), which supported (but also
denied) their claim to both being the messengers of the imam in the com-
munity and those who were supposed to strengthen the legitimacy of the
religious authority and undermine that of the rule of secular governors
and kings. 21 The origin of this debate can be found in the existence of the
Qajar Dynasty, the changing reality of Persian society, and the geopolitical
reality of the Middle East.
While the Qajar Dynasty, especially toward the end of its rule, tended
to adopt Western content, it also remained mired in deep corruption and
enslaved to the Western world by long-term loans that were used to enrich
the hedonistic rulers rather than develop the Persian nation. This enslave-
ment led the religious leaders to take the doctrinaire struggle out of the
madrassa and into the streets to demonstrate to the ruling class that Iran
was still led by these leaders. Their protests would become much more
political a few decades later with Khomeini’s demand to lead the country
politically as well.
It was only natural that the constitutional protestors of 1905 would use
mosques and religious sites to convince the clergy and their followers to
adhere to their revolutionary concepts based on nationalism and religious
essence. These, however, were rather incompatible with the royalist aspira-
tions for changes in the country, especially in regard to the relations and
favors provided to Western elements by the Qajar Dynasty. The consti-
tutional revolutionaries and religious leaders had no direct revolutionary
experience and were therefore unable to predict whether such a change

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
would be beneficial to the country. They assumed that the constitutional
revolutions that had brought prosperity and social justice to other coun-
tries would also guarantee a similar change in Iran.
At this stage, religious leaders, identifying with the constitutional pro-
testors (and there was no unanimity among the religious leaders about
the goals of a constitutional revolution 22 ), joined their public in the belief
that institutional corruption should end. The issue of their partnership,
either as politicians or as government counselors, was not a part of the
revolutionary agenda. They considered their participation in the struggle
to be a means to protect religion, strengthen the country, and ensure social
welfare, protection, and due respect to the Muslim population.
Within this constitutional revolution, the clergy debated their part in
this process. Some, like the Ayatollah Sheikh Fazollah Nouri, argued that
importing a Western constitution to an Islamic country was forbidden
while others, such as the Ayatollah Mirza Muhammad Hussein Na’ini,
argued that any opposition to such a revolutionary movement contributed
to the perpetuation of the Qajar Dynasty’s dictatorial regime, something
which was also forbidden. Some minor, although significant, religious fig-
ures argued that any constitution, whether imported or not, had to lean
on the Shari’a laws and not on unknown and unfamiliar Western concepts
that were foreign to Shiite and Islamic rule. Therefore the religious leaders,
over and above their support, became a key factor that was likely to lead
the country and its sociopolitical development based on religious elements
and support. At that time, however, no one claimed that the Ulama would
or could lead the country politically. 23
Na’ini expanded this unresolved concept of the religious leaders’ sup-
port of the constitutional revolution and pointed out the authority inherent
in the religious leader as a long-term and powerful “deputy” or “representa-
tive” of the Hidden Imam on Earth. This was an authority that obligated
him to take action regarding the establishment of a supportive and effi-
cient regime that would grant religion its rightful place within Iranian
Shiite society. He considered any government that leaned on the  vilaya to
be better than any corrupt regime even if, from a constitutional point of
view, it would not be the ultimate government of the Hidden Imam. The
problem was that even a regime of this kind would not be immune from
corruption (since only the rule of the imam would be resistant to corrup-
tion and exploitation). 24
Perhaps, in general, the religious leaders, especially the seniors (the
mujtaheds —Ayatollahs), did not want to rule and did not see any obliga-
tion to be involved in the constitutional revolution or its process and to
promote religious content. They preferred remaining faithful to the tradi-
tional Shiite concepts that did not mix religion and politics in the meaning

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
that the Ulama should take part in current politics—as they had during the
Safavid rule. The Ulama at this time believed that they should not take any
part in politics at least until the arrival of the Hidden Imam. On the other
hand, there were autonomous religious leaders who considered themselves
committed to revolutionary concepts and their implementation. At this
stage, religious leaders, whether senior or autonomous, initiated a common
struggle and joined the movements that were against foreign powers.
Until the collapse of the Qajar Dynasty the religious leaders had not
experienced any traumatic events in respect to their status and the nation’s
character. The Qajar regime indulged itself in corruption and was depen-
dent more on its links with foreign powers than on wisely and consistently
introducing Western modern content into the country. The fateful signs
against religious leaders and in general against religion in the country first
appeared during the rule of Reza Shah who overthrew the Qajar Dynasty
in December 1925. Until his ousting in 1941 he continually oppressed reli-
gious leaders and the Shiite tradition and culture, openly declaring that the
nation’s future did not depend on them but was linked to secular processes
and modern elements unknown to Islamic ideology in general and more
specifically to the Shiite conception of it. 25
The modernization process that had already begun at the end of the nine-
teenth century accelerated after World War I. The rise of Mustafa Kemal
Atatürk in Turkey and the social and political revolution that he led, along
with the intensive introduction of Western and modern processes, were not
to be ignored by the new Iranian king. 26 Reza Shah envied the changes
introduced by Atatürk in Turkey and aspired to increase Iran’s power from
within and without. For this purpose, he agreed with the plans of the Iranian
nationalists— Iran Javan —who insisted that only a secularization of the
country and the reduction of the mullahs’ power would enable the shah to
enhance Iran’s vigor and lead it toward progress and modernization.
Reza Shah was impressed by the plans presented to him by these left-wing
nationalists even though these plans were not new to him. Perhaps consult-
ing left-wing people who identified with secularism indirectly supported
what he himself thought about the things that were obstructing Iran’s
progress and what needed to be done to achieve this progress. Moreover,
despite his determination to implement his/their plans, the new shah
understood that he could not achieve these goals in the short time desired
by the nationalists or as carried out by Atatürk himself. The shah under-
stood that the religious reality of Iran was different from that of Turkey
regarding both the nature of the population and the religious trends of
both countries since Turkey was Sunnite and Iran Shiite. Nevertheless he
promised the nationalists that such changes would take place in the course
of the years to come. 27

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
During his reign, from the beginning of 1926 until his dismissal in
1941, the shah tried to implement the required reforms but, unfortu-
nately for him and for his people, the economic and the political situation
impaired the implementation of these changes. Reza Shah’s vision was, of
course, twofold: to lead Iran to full national independence while remov-
ing the burden of the British and Russian presence 28 and to optimize the
impact of the reforms by combining them with secular elements such as
the cancellation of the  waqf (sanctified institution) and the Shari’a courts
of justice, a reduction in religious influences on governmental institutions,
and the implementation of a Western code of dress. 29
The senior religious leaders in Iran, who aspired to preserve the status
quo, protested mainly against his aspiration to turn Iran into a secular
republic 30 in the image of Turkey under Atatürk, but Reza Shah’s admin-
istration succeeded in overcoming their protests. 31 It should be noted that
the clerics at that time had already reached a compromise with the coming
shah, Reza Khan, in which the abandonment of the wish to create Iran as
an image or reflection of Atatürk’s Turkey would help them to declare him
as shah rather than as president.
Mahmood T. Davari provides an analytic diagnosis of the religious
situation in the early 1920s in Iran. According to him, at this time, the
Fuqaha could be divided mainly into two groups by virtue of their use
of philosophical techniques and religious research. The first group could
be identified by their use of the  reason ( a’ql ), which made them liberals
and the second group, who preferred to use  texts only , could be identify as
conservatives . 32
The religious leaders’ salvation came about in 1941 when, following
the shah’s refusal to surrender to a British ultimatum that demanded he
dissociate himself from Nazi Germany, the British expelled him to South
Africa. Subsequently Great Britain occupied Iran and suspended the
reform processes that the shah wanted to implement. His departure, for
whatever reason, in fact triggered the growing power of the religious lead-
ers in the country. 33
The shah was replaced by his young son, Muhammad Reza Shah, who
was only 21 years old at that time. Since the Iranian royal family was fac-
ing a new reality that required them to follow British dictates so as to pre-
serve their royal status, the young shah was forced, among other things, to
suspend the modernization process at least till after the war so as to prevent
antagonism that might arise from the mostly religious community. Other
reforms, not linked to religious issues, were encouraged, especially regard-
ing the economy of the country. 34
The dismissal of Reza Shah was welcomed by the religious leaders who
were open to the political opportunities presented by the ruling powers

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
(Great Britain, the United States, and the USSR). Reza Shah’s dismissal
provided them with the opportunity to put an end to the prohibitions
implemented by the former shah: the prohibition placed on celebrating
the day of ‘Ashura on the tenth month of Muharram, and that imposed on
women against the code of dressing immodestly. The young shah had no
choice but to fulfill the religious leaders’ demands since he felt they were
being supported by the great powers. 35
During the rule of both Reza Shah and his son Muhammad Reza Shah,
however, the Shiite religious community, led by the Ayatollah Ha’iri and
his successor, the Ayatollah Borujerdi, maintained a consistent policy of
nonparticipation in the regime while preserving the interests of religion
through the classic maneuver of intervention in politics mostly from the
outside. After World War II, the religious and political fervor of these lead-
ers led some of them, such as the Ayatollah Abul Qasem Kashani, to a total
commitment to the implementation of national political changes through
their unavoidable intervention in the nation’s political life.
The conduct of the Ayatollahs Hai’ri and Borujerdi, both followers of
“quietism” (even though both came from the Usuliyya School) that believed
it was better to avoid straightforward involvement in politics, unconsciously
enhanced and renewed the old, classical debate between the Usuliyya and
Akhbariyya points of view on politics (even though the Akhbariyya as a
school stopped existing during the nineteenth century). These two methods
had different views about both the concept of the religious leader as mis-
sionary and his religious and—if at all—political function. After Borujerdi’s
death in 1961 the Shiites in Iran faced the dilemma of whether the com-
munity should put its trust in the followers of Borujerdi, who focused on
religious rather than political involvement, or not. A choice to do so might
have obstructed the economic and social progress of the religious Shiite
community as well as the autonomy of the social religious institutions.
Some proposed adherence to the ancient Shiite method of the  Marjiyat : not
to submit to the authority of one leader ( Marja’ Taqlid ) but to that of a col-
lective of senior religious leaders that would become a “council of sages” in
which each religious leader would have his own field of specialization and
promote the economic and religious autonomy of all Shiite institutions. 36
This dilemma reveals the reality of the Iranian Shiite community in the
mid-twentieth century, namely, whether it should continue debating about
the integration of religious leaders into modern politics or remain faithful
to the classic Shiite tradition according to which religious leaders should
not be involved in politics until the return of the Hidden Imam. Ayatollah
Kashani, because of his religious political activity, reflects the essence of
the dilemma and its partial solution—a subject that will be discussed in
the next chapter.

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
The Era of Mossadeq and the Change
in Shi’a Consciousness toward
Community Leadership
Sayyed Abul Qasem Kashani was born in 1882 in Teheran to a family of
religious scholars. In 1898, at the age of 16, he moved with his family to
Najef where they all settled. In spite of the Qajar Dynasty’s defeat in the
tobacco boycott (1890–1892) and their decreasing popularity among the
people at a time when the religious leaders were gaining more and more
esteem, the Kashani family decided to make their life in Iraq, particularly
for religious and scholarly reasons. At this time the young Kashani had the
opportunity to become the student of both Mullah Muhammad Qasem
Khorasani, one of the most prominent thinkers of the Shiite religion, and
the Haj Mirza Hussein Halili Tehrani. Kashani turned out to be a prodigy
and at the age of 25 was already granted the title of “mujtahid.” As a reli-
gious scholar he decided to combine the abstract and the material world
and, at that point in his life, chose the anticolonialist struggle over con-
finement within the narrow Shiite tradition.
His experience as a warrior led him to the establishment of a  madra-
sah , which was an innovative institution at this time, especially within
the Shiite community. The A’lavi Madrasah’s curriculum included secular
studies such as exact sciences, military strategies, and self-defense, and,
obviously, a process of preparation to oppose future Western imperialistic
invaders. Already in 1920, Kashani had become one of the pioneers who
struggled against the British inside Iraq. 37
Kashani and his followers were defeated in their anticolonialist struggle
and had to escape back to their land of origin, Iran. In order to protect
himself he supported Reza Khan, who later founded the Pahlavi Dynasty,
and the royal regime at least until Reza Shah was expelled by the British to
South Africa in 1941. During World War II Kashani founded a pro-Nazi
movement that focused more on the struggle against the hated British than
on the promotion of the Nazi vision. The British neutralized this pro-Nazi
movement, caught Kashani, and imprisoned him for two years, at least
until things calmed down or the till the end of the war. Upon his release
from jail Kashani turned his hatred of the British against the Royalist
regime of the shah, which he considered to be a symbol of imperialism over
Iranian land, and joined the Fada’iyan movement as a spiritual mentor. 38
The religious popular front was created when the Ayatollah Kashani
returned from exile in 1946. He established links with the bazaar mer-
chants and with popular and religious groups so as to oppose British

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
influence in Iran and, of course, in order to support the nationalization
of the oil industry in the country. In February 1949, after Nasser Fakhr
Arai’s failed attempt to murder the shah at the Tehran University, Kashani
was sent into exile and even while there was appointed to represent the
National Front within the sixteenth Majlis. When Kashani returned to
Iran he joined the Fada’iyan’s leader Navab Safavi and gave the movement
his blessing, expecting to gain politically from this. It is believed that the
Kashani-Safavi partnership was meant to establish an Islamic government
(see Safavi’s  Barnameh plan) but, after their split, Safavi would pretend
that Kashani had not fulfilled his part in their agreement and had oper-
ated to set up “Islam and Faith.” 39 As mentioned earlier, in 1949 Kashani
was suspected of being involved in an attempt to murder the shah and was
therefore expelled from Iran. A year later he returned to Iran and gave his
support to Dr. Mohammad Mossadeq, the leader of the National Front
party. 40
During World War II the Ayatollah Kashani had argued that it was
necessary to expel the British from Iran along with their supporters and
representatives of Occidentalism and anti-Islamic views; therefore, on his
return from exile, it was not surprising that he joined the Fada’iyan. The
Fada’iyan, like the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, aspired to set up an
Islamic state based on the sources of pure Islam. For Kashani, religion
and state (meaning politics) were one entity that the British tried to split
in many ways. Kashani’s vision was twofold: (1) to turn the Shari’a into
the national constitution where religious leaders would become politicians
with key roles in the administration and society; and (2) to remove the
imperialistic forces from Iran. 41 Beyond that, he considered their presence,
not only in Iran but in the whole Middle East, to be a greedy attempt to
exploit the natural resources of the area without taking into account local
populations to whom these same resources really belonged. Because of the
negative situation in which Iran found itself, he believed that it would
neither overcome its enemies and become autonomous, nor be able to com-
bine popular secular and religious forces into one entity.
The  Marja’-i Taqlid in those days, between the end of the 1940s and
the beginning of the 1950s, was the Grand Ayatollah Sayyid Hossein
Borujerdi. He was opposed to Occidentalism but was also against the
forthright integration of religious scholars into politics. 42 He believed in
the classical, familiar method of operating behind the scenes in support
of the existing political framework. The Ayatollah Borujerdi went even
further and declared that religious leaders who became involved in politi-
cal matters would not be entitled to deal with religious issues, education, or
even Islamic Law. 43 Ultimately Borujerdi wanted to preserve the neutrality
of religious leaders regarding the secular government, and some religious

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
institutions took advantage of this approach to maintain their contacts
with “high ranked people.” 44 It seems as if Borujerdi’s decision was in fact
the preapproval of the same one taken by the Ulama in Qom in February
1949 (along with Ayatollah Bihbahani), which prohibited the involvement
of religious leaders in politics 45 —but it was not the same, since Borujerdi
was the one to initiate this decision.
According to Homa Katouzian it was Borujerdi who led this legal pro-
cess with his religious antiactivist approach to politics. Katouzian suggests
that this decision was premeditated and, first of all, was aimed against
Kashani’s efforts to integrate religion and politics but resulted in a sup-
portive attitude toward royalty and the political institutions. According to
Katouzian, Kashani at that time represented the radical aspect of politi-
cal activism while Borujerdi and Bihbahani reflected political quietism,
but these were in fact two different approaches to politics rather than two
different concepts related to politics. 46 It seems that the core issue for reli-
gious leaders then was to what extent they could be involved in politics.
Fada’iyan-i Islam and Kashani excepted, they did not consider them-
selves to be leaders in the Islamic government. 47 Nevertheless, Ayatollah
Borujerdi sent a letter to the shah, which supported Mossadeq’s aspira-
tions concerning oil nationalization and demanded that the shah reinforce
Mossadeq in this matter. 48
In this situation the Ayatollah Kashani had to face a dilemma that had
a great impact. On the one hand he was a religious leader committed to the
religious framework and attentive to the greatest figures of the generation
and on the other hand he was opposed to imperialism and aware of the
fact that a passive attitude would neither remove imperialism nor lead to
the reinforcement of religious leaders in the country. This was a situation
that was already negative with the presence of imperialistic elements and
the partial adoption of Western content in the political agenda of the Qajar
regime and its successor, Mohammad Rezā Shāh Pahlavi.
Kashani, while still exiled in Beirut, transmitted his protest against and
irritation with Borujerdi and the Qom convention’s decision. He attacked
the convention claiming that they had empowered the shah to dismantle
the Majlis and therefore shaped a political line that might affect the status
of religion and religious leaders in the country. 49 This argument turned out
to be erroneous since the shah’s authority was fragile and Kashani, aware
of this fact, decided to take advantage of this situation to promote the
nationalization of the oil industry.
Indirectly, and in spite of this prohibition, the involvement of the reli-
gious leaders in politics might have been the real reason for the Islamic
renewal in the 1950s. The Ayatollah Kashani declared that the impact
he had on politics was greater than the influence of the shah 50 and since

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
he considered himself to be the heart of Iranian politics, Kashani asso-
ciated himself with Mossadeq and managed to get elected to the Majlis
even though he was still in Beirut. He was allowed to return to Tehran
only in June 1950 51 to take part in the politics to which he so aspired.
Upon his return he also joined the Fada’iyan-i Islam, a movement that
was most actively involved in political assassinations and led a militant
anti-Occidental Islamic strategy. 52 It is very probable that on returning
to Tehran he became aware of the fact that the traditional religious estab-
lishment, powerfully led by Borujerdi and other Ayatollahs, was ignoring
him. This was why he decided to join the Fada’iyan, an organization that,
according to him, was very close to his own traditional concepts and was
able to promote national and religious affairs.
As long as they remained detached from politics Kashani and the
Fada’iyan could claim that their aspiration was to take part in the political
system and bring it back to its Islamic sources so that it would be relevant
and genuine. 53 The Ayatollah Borujerdi diverged on this point and, more-
over, did not hesitate to say so. Kashani was opposed to Borujerdi and
showed this by joining Mossadeq. This was for a limited time, however, and
one of the reasons for the split between Kashani and the Fada’iyan was the
latter’s motivation to integrate politics in Iran and set up an Islamic nation
(just like Kashani wanted) on the basis of the Quran and the Shari’a.
Kashani considered himself to be a fundamentalist who aspired to estab-
lish the foundations for a religious system and called upon the Shiites, in
Iran and other countries, to thoroughly observe a full, traditional Shari’a
life. In the meantime he protested against the secular reforms that Reza
Shah and his son wanted to implement and aimed to see Iran cleansed
of all external influence, especially British. Kashani insisted on the fact
that according to the laws of Islam, the religious leader was the one who
should rule the people in all social and religious matters. In one of his
articles Kashani called upon the Shiites in Iran to unite and act together
against imperialism declaring that, for the sake of Islam, Shiites should
forget everything that separated them and unite. He went even further and
encouraged the foundation of Islamic preaching centers that became gath-
ering points that extolled extremism and terror to fanatic young people. 54
We may suppose that these centers were run by the Fada’iyan-i Islam orga-
nization headed by Safavi.
In the years 1948–1949, Kashani opened his struggle against the royal
family by distributing protest brochures that claimed the shah was act-
ing in favor of the Baha’is and the British. As a religious leader Kashani,
who was involved in politics, argued that the shah wanted to institute his
antinationalist, secular plans and thus sacrifice the honor of Iran. Kashani
was also active among the bazaar merchants who were a financial source

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
of support for the religious leaders and asked them to mobilize and join
his religious and political struggle by taking part in the protest movement
against the shah, by closing their stands and organizing strikes and dem-
onstrations. He insisted that the Iranian people had to fight against the
shah and the British activities. 55 Kashani even praised the idea of a  jihad
and the purification of Iran from external elements of influence that would
necessarily have an impact on internal factors that strengthened Western
concepts. 56
In May 1951 Kashani asked Mossadeq to instruct all municipalities
to close all cafes, restaurants, and clubs and, in his sermons, insisted on
the fact that Iranian Muslims had to preserve Islamic unity and lead Iran
to become the cradle of a world Islamic civilization. 57 From an historical
point of view it seems that Kashani preceded Mohammad Reza in this
vision of turning Iran into the center of a world civilization with an Islamic
core. This concept, it seems, was rooted in Kashani’s vision rather than in
Khomeini’s.
Another reason for the split between Kashani and the Fada’iyan was the
former’s inability to enter politics the way he understood the term “enter-
ing politics,” notwithstanding his willingness, especially after the nation-
alization of the oil industry. By then all the credit he had received from
the clergy (who supported the nationalization as well) was exhausted since
the oil had already been nationalized, and any activity in politics would
have been interpreted by the clergy (whose support, despite his apparent
activism, was important for him) as a grave deviation from their classical
conservative policy.
Kazemi quotes Richard Cottam’s argument describing Kashani’s split
from the Fada’iyan as based on ideology since Kashani opposed the rigid
Fada’iyan’s absolutism concerning the integration of religion and state. 58
Perhaps there were ideological disputes but the presence behind the scene
of Ayatollah Borujerdi, whose interpretation of the religious-political real-
ity differed from both Kashani and the Fada’iyan, seems to have slowed
down Kashani’s efforts to promote Islamic interests in the guise of “the
rule of the religious leader.”
The new political reality within Iran after the elections of 1949, in which
the National Front Party entered the Majlis, led to a profound change in
the public arena. By then Iran was already being dominated economically
by the Soviet Union and, especially, Great Britain. This situation forced
a real debate over nationality, independence, and the political identity of
the regime, especially since Iran’s neighbor states had fared comparatively
better. Sovereignty and national identity are very sensitive issues and had
already been discussed by Reza Shah. The prewar reality and the interests
of the great powers in the Middle East, however, did not allow him and the

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Iranian state to conclude the debate with a clear vision—but it reerupted
at the end of the war. It is important to note that the dialectical balance of
power within Iran after the expulsion of Reza Shah in 1941 saw the return
to the public arena of old-new players such as the clergy, that same factor
that Reza Shah had sought to remove from power. Now, after the shah’s
removal, the clergy felt empowered again but were very cautious in their
demands and mainly occupied themselves with the fundamental issue of
their attitude to politics and the place of politics in their lives. In such a
situation ideological seniority was bound to be bestowed upon whoever
challenged the present reality and presented a new agenda for the state, and
probably the Middle East as well.
Dr. Muhammad Mossadeq, leader of the National Front, which had
just entered the Majlis, was just such a person. Due to the party’s great
power, and the dormant national issues that they managed to foster and
glorify, its leader, Mossadeq, managed to strengthen his position in the
Majlis and was elected to head the Oil Committee—the parliamentary
committee that presented him with an opportunity to realize his political
ambitions. As is well-known Mossadeq, via this committee, succeeded in
causing havoc in Iranian-British relations. An initial refusal to sign an
accord with Britain and then the nationalization of the British oil firm the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company led Iran into a new political and diplomatic
reality. Notwithstanding all speculations, Mossadeq’s popularity rose as
the crises deepened, nourished by patriotism and the sense of vengeance
he had managed to instill in the Iranian people, an emotion to which they
had been aspiring for decades.
Emotion and reality were, however, two different things. Iranian poli-
tics, fragile anyway, could not find comfort in intense nationalism and
patriotism alone. Mossadeq was forced to pay a political price by cooperat-
ing with political forces and parties with which he would not sit around
one table in normal times but, in the matter of the nationalization of oil,
Mossadeq won the support of wider circles in Iranian society. Among
these active and passive supporters we can find the orthodox that obeyed
Ayatollah Borujerdi’s dictum and refrained from joining the political par-
ties and realizing their numerical advantage in the government organs.
As noted earlier an exception in the political arena was Ayatollah
Kashani who supported Mossadeq but demanded in return a price that
Mossadeq, notwithstanding his goodwill (and probably that of others),
could not pay. The reason for Kashani’s immediate support of Mossadeq
was his conviction that the latter was struggling to achieve those same goal
he had fought for in his youth in Iraq and later in Iran: the expulsion of
exploitative imperialism from the Middle East and from Iran in particular. 59
Kashani joined the secular National Front as a religious faction and was

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
even elected to chair the Majlis, in which he never set foot, probably as a
result of his apprehension about Borujerdi’s religious ban (and his actual
exile to Lebanon at the time). Anyway, even outside the Majlis, his role
and cooperation with Mossadeq were intended to gain political influence.
However, joining the seculars was actually a tactical move on his part to
take on the reins of government. 60
In 1952, following tensions between Mossadeq and the shah, the for-
mer resigned and his place was taken by Ahmed Qavam. Mossadeq’s sup-
porters, mainly orthodox followers of Kashani, started demonstrating on
his behalf. Qavam’s relations with the orthodox had never been warm and
he publicly opposed their involvement, presence, and even their counsel-
ing in politics. 61 On July 18 Kashani helped organize demonstrations in
support of Mossadeq, which forced the shah to offer the premiership to the
recently resigned premier. 62
As leader of both the religious and national struggle (identified with
Mossadeq), Kashani spoke against Qavam and in support of Mossadeq
saying that “the separation of religion and state has been a centuries old
British plan. They strove to maintain the ignorance of the Muslim people
for their (the British) own advantage. The traitors, who have implemented
British policies for centuries, overthrew Mossadeq’s government because it
obstructed the fulfillment of their aims . . . ” 63 The British did not remain
silent and, in a very long letter sent to the cabinet, their Charge d’Affairs,
Sir James Bowker, described the latest developments in Tehran. Bowker
was under “the impression that his [Mossadeq] megalomania is now verg-
ing on mental instability.” Kashani, identified by the British diplomat as a
dominant factor in Mossadeq’s “National Front,” was targeted for an even
harsher criticism and was described as “a sly, corrupt and anti-Western
demagogue.” In view of these observations Bowker claimed that the only
way to save Persia from falling into the hands of the communists was by
organizing a coup d’état. 64
Kashani was not a political leader in the narrow sense of the word or in
the Western sense. He was a political-religious leader who had not expe-
rienced parliamentary activity and was regarded by the average Iranian
as a religious-spiritual leader in addition to partly being, especially dur-
ing Mossadeq’s period, no less a religious leader than Ayatollah Borujerdi.
Kashani represented a pan-Islamic view even before Khomeini and spoke
for Islamic unity all over the Middle East. This was the reason he was
anti-British and anti-imperialist in a Middle Eastern sense and Iranian
nationalism was for him only a step up the ladder leading to pan-Islamism. 65
While Kashani viewed the political role of the clergy as a religious duty 66
Khomeini, on the other hand, was a nationalist until 1970 and, only then,
started to develop the idea of pan-Islamism. Kashani did not find these

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
ideas incompatible since for him nationalism was a necessary evolutionary
step toward the more meaningful pan-Islamism. In spite of their agree-
ment on such issues as nationalization and full Iranian sovereignty, how-
ever, Kashani and Mossadeq squabbled over the centers of power in the
state. 67
In any case Kashani supported Mossadeq’s nationalization of the oil
industry, thus gaining political power and the status of a national-religious
leader but, in his attempt to gain more authority, he encountered Mossadeq’s
opposition. Following statements in a pro-Kashani newspaper that claimed
Mossadeq had become a dictator and which, in fact, called for his assas-
sination, the latter dismissed Kashani from his post as chairman of the
parliament. 68 Kashani also eyed the premiership or at least strove to gain
political power by virtue of his presence in a sensitive political situation—
for he had actually become the pivot for political balance. The British had
already identified General Zahedi as a potential replacement for Mossadeq
but their hopes depended on the general’s ability to gain Kashani’s sup-
port. 69 Moreover, Kashani’s political maneuvering and his secret confer-
ring with the Tudeh party were a source of anxiety to Mossadeq and his
colleagues in the National Front. All parties had an interest in the nation-
alization of the oil industry but, in their disputes with the British, Kashani
and the communists were more forceful. The British viewed Kashani as
a more extreme nationalist then Mossadeq, in fact the most extreme of
all nationalists at that time, and, in their eyes, Kashani, who had driven
Mossadeq toward nationalization, was the real threat. 70
The CIA, which had identified Kashani as a member of Mossadeq’s
coalition, also viewed him as an independent figure who was striving for
a higher post and they also feared that independent elements from the
National Front would turn to the Tudeh communist party. Mossadeq was
already known as anti-Soviet and Kashani as anti-British (but not neces-
sarily anti-Soviet). Fearing a split in the National Party and a drift toward
Tudeh, 71 the Americans viewed Kashani as the sole possible replacement
for Mossadeq (although the British preferred Zahedi) in the case of the
latter’s failure to maintain his government or his death. In any case the
Americans figured that Kashani was building his political power in order
to take over from Mossadeq. From any perspective the Americans were
apprehensive about the growing political power of the communists, espe-
cially since Kashani was viewed as more extremist than Mossadeq in his
opposition to the West. 72 Even after a long time following Mossadeq’s
dismissal (1955), Kashani (notwithstanding his quitting politics) was
viewed by the Americans as a potential threat to Iranian politics. 73 The
Americans’ assumption regarding Kashani’s political power and his being
a possible replacement could have come from their lack of familiarity with

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
Iranian politics and a mistaken interpretation of the current political situa-
tion. Nevertheless, at that point, Kashani still had a strong influence on
Iranian politics.
At the beginning of August 1953, Mossadeq proposed holding a refer-
endum on reducing the authority of the Majlis. By then Ayatollah Kashani
had already become a bitter enemy of the prime minister and called for
a ban on the referendum. As he put it: “Participating in the destructive
referendum, run by foreigners, would arouse the rage of the 12th Imam,
which is ‘ Haram ’ (forbidden). And no Muslim patriot should be a part of
it.” 74 This kind of pronouncement was exceptional in both the religious
and political arena. Until now Mossadeq had been considered a friend
but, from now on, he would be a “foreigner.” Here one must also note that
there is a particular Shiite period of chaos during which the Hidden Imam
will arrive “to set things straight,” and this will be a unique combination
of a patriotism identified as nationalism of the first degree combined with
“Islam” (which negates the term nation in the first place). This, however,
was not the case according to Kashani who, as mentioned earlier, saw
nationalism as an evolutionary step toward pan-Islamism.
Kashani versus Mossadeq—
A Battle of the Giants
In their struggle against the USSR, the Americans saw Mossadeq as some-
one who preferred the West over the Soviet Union, but since an Iranian
prime minister (Razm-Ara) and a former prime minister (Hazhir) had
already been murdered, an American intelligence evaluation assumed the
possibility of Dr. Mossadeq’s murder by fanatic devotees of oil nationaliza-
tion. In such an eventuality the Americans assumed Ayatollah Kashani
would replace Mossadeq as head of the National Front and become prime
minister. 75 The State Department, busy discussing the future of Iran
without Mossadeq, were not concerned about the future of British assets,
but about who would replace Mossadeq and what his agenda toward the
United States might be. American diplomats were apprehensive about the
possibility that Kashani might strive to diminish American influence in
Iran but not to the point of demanding the withdrawal of all American
forces. 76
The Americans, perhaps because they were ignorant of his religious
views, were not bothered about Kashani’s religious aspirations or his will
to form an Islamic government nor did they discuss it. In fact, beyond the
issues of nationalization and the potential fall of Iran into Soviet hands,

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
the Americans did not bother themselves with the politics of religion in
Iran at all.
As they understood it, Kashani had joined Mossadeq due to the rise of
nationalism and the opportunity they had both seen to use nationalism
as a vehicle in the struggle to drive the British out of Iran. Kashani, who
had exploited nationalism to arouse the anti-British sentiment all over
Iran, which finally led the Majlis to nationalize the oil industry, 77 rep-
resented an uncompromising stand in matters involving oil and the for-
eign presence—and this limited Mossadeq’s freedom of action. From the
American point of view Kashani’s internal policy was negative as well for,
by inflaming the peasantry and landowners against the agrarian reforms,
he was creating unrest in the country and playing into the hands of the
communists. 78
The Americans had come to the conclusion that should Mossadeq lose
power (unless in a military coup) Kashani, as the second most powerful
man in Iran, would replace him. They were, however, apprehensive that in
such a case Iran’s situation would worsen and that the communist party,
the Tudeh, would try to seize power. In their estimation, however, they did
believe that Kashani would be able to deal with the Tudeh since he was not
sympathetic to their aims. 79
The Americans were attentive to Kashani’s presence and activities in
Iran’s political arena since his representation of the religious community
testified to the rising power of the clergy in Iran. 80 (They were, however,
not aware of the internal debate concerning its involvement in politics.) As
far as they were concerned Kashani was backing Mossadeq and unifying
religious interests around the issue of oil nationalization. 81 A report to the
American president pointed out that “one of the main difficulties in nego-
tiating with Mossadeq was the influence exerted on him by advisers and
colleagues belonging to the political left wing, and by anti-British advisers
first and foremost Kashani.” 82 The Americans were not alone in estimat-
ing that Kashani was a rising star in Iranian politics for Mossadeq also saw
him as a potential threat. 83
The Americans also reported on the influence of the clerics under Reza
Shah who preferred European culture and dress codes. They claimed that
the power of the orthodox had deteriorated and that the shah had kept
them away from the religious and legal institutions. Since his dismissal in
1941, however, the clerics had regained their influence, but this did not
surpass that which they had had before Reza’s regime. They saw Kashani
as a representative of the Ultimate Mulla, opposed to foreign presence in
Iran, to communism (because of its secularity), and to all aspects of west-
ernization and secularism, which the deposed shah had tried to impose
on Iran. 84

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
In any case, Mossadeq rejected Kashani’s and the Fada’iyan’s efforts to
run the government in an Islamic manner (despite their apparent nonin-
volvement in politics) and told them to try their luck with another govern-
ment, not his. 85 We may agree with De Groot’s claim concerning some
religious elements, especially among Borujerdi’s adherents, who rejected
politics as something secular by nature 86 and accepted the joining of
Borujerdi to Kashani by supporting the coup against Mossadeq “because
they disliked what they saw as Mossadeq’s secularising tendency and the
influence of the Tudeh.” 87 We must, however, also assume the presence of
other elements such as Kashani and the Fada’iyan-i Islam, which sought
to sanctify politics in an Islamic manner. Some suspect that Kashani and
the Ayatollah Muhammad Bahbani were bribed by the CIA to desert
Mossadeq’s party, the National Front, in what was known in the bazaar as
the “Bahbani’s Dollars” affair. 88
After the coup Kashani quit public life since many thought that he was
actually a British agent, and the media continued ignoring him notwith-
standing his efforts to draw attention to himself. The affair, however, did
not diminish the influence of the clergy but, on the contrary, their politi-
cal power even increased after August 1953. In contrast to its treatment of
the communists and the nationalists the regime did not harass the clergy
since most, but not all, clergy kept a low profile. During the month of
Ramadan in 1955, the famous preacher Muhammad Falsafi attacked the
Baha’is, accusing them of being “traitors and Western agents.” He claimed
that “the military regime (Zahedi’s) urged the Baha’is to halt their propa-
ganda (meaning the dissemination of their religion) which is rousing the
public.” 89
As noted earlier the struggles between Kashani and Mossadeq led the
former to quit the political system and withdraw his political and reli-
gious support of the prime minister. 90 Mossadeq had taken a misguided
gamble by assuming the religious sector to be an anemic group seeking
to use its alleged, and unproven, power to gain political profit (but at
his expense). While it is important to note that, at the time, this might
have been a correct decision time would prove it wrong. At any rate the
gamble cost Mossadeq his premiership—and led to the crisis named after
him. Mossadeq had apparently failed to understand that Kashani and the
Fada’iyan support had helped him in his election and that the lack of their
support would probably have its own political consequences.
In any case, Mossadeq’s gamble had its own logic since the clergy and
their supporters never used their influence to gain political power, which
he might have interpreted as a threat to his position. The removal of their
support not only failed to prevent the Mossadeq crisis and Operation
Ajax, it brought it about. The clerical support of Mossadeq could not have

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
prevented Ajax but it could cause its failure. For years after this operation
the Shiite clergy seemed to shy away from politics and kept their distance
from it, and, although Kashani’s contacts with Mossadeq hurt his stand-
ing with the clergy and the religious seminaries, 91 after his separation from
him Kashani was presented as a royalist, notwithstanding his religious
orthodoxy. 92
Kashani’s main goal in joining the Mossadeq National Coalition, and
his net gain, was the nationalization of the oil industry. The secondary
goal he hoped to achieve by his “virtual” presence in the coalition was
the promotion of religious affairs in the state and, via this, to encourage
the clergy to first make political moves and infiltrate the political system
later. However his meteoric rise in politics cost Kashani a fast burnout,
which led to the tension with Mossadeq. The man who tried to mediate
between the two was Sheikh Mahmud Halabi, founder of the anti-Baha’i
Hojjatiyeh Society, a charismatic speaker, a supporter of Mossadeq during
the nationalization struggle, and a failed Majlis candidate but his failure to
reconcile the two put an end to his political career. 93
With the departure of Kashani, Mossadeq ruled both the religious and
secular sections of his party, and Kashani rejoined the Fada’iyan but was
not the leader of the party and only took part in the deliberations over its
identity and decision-making. The Fada’iyan’s orientation was very similar
to that of the Sunni’s Moslem Brotherhood of Egypt since both move-
ments understood that staying out of politics would not advance their reli-
gious concerns. In contrast to the Brotherhood, however, the Fada’iyan
was not a mass movement and thus failed to realize its political potential.
In any case they still managed to meddle in Iranian politics at least until
the end of the 1940s. 94
Though not a single political entity the Fada’iyan and Kashani were
among the first to urge the clergy’s political involvement in Iranian poli-
tics. Each side came from opposite social backgrounds. On the one hand,
the religious establishment and the rich merchants clung to each other in
an attempt to rid themselves politically of the regime’s intervention in their
social, religious, and economic status. On the other hand, the low classes
were poor and religiously fundamental. Neither Kashani nor the Fada’iyan
had a structured political credo and both were political novices (except
for Safavi’s  Barname , which had an eclectic theory for the creation of a
Muslim society). Their only messages were the rejection of imperialism
and the augmentation of the clergy’s influence in the state.
Kashani did not preach a political/religious vision that saw Iran being
led solely by the clergy such as was the case with the  Velayat-i Faqih , which
was introduced by Khomeini three decades later. The political reality of
his time was not yet ripe for such clerical governments for the clergy were

The Revival of the Shi’a after the Qajars
still busy trying to safeguard their present status. What Kashani was try-
ing to achieve in the political arena, despite Borujerdi’s total ban, was the
revival of the old power and role of the clergy in a restored Iranian com-
munity, something Borujerdi would not have opposed.
Following the Mossadeq crises and his fall, the shah nominated General
Zahedi to head the government. Kashani, whose passive opposition had con-
tributed to Mossadeq’s fall, hoped for a reward but the expected embrace of
the shah’s government did not materialize. What did come from Zahedi’s
government were false accusations that labeled him and his supporters as
“[t]raitors helped in their undermining actions by foreign agents.” Kashani,
whose credentials as an anti-Imperialist were well-known, was offended. 95
While he was in the government he did negotiate with the Americans who
were trying to pave the way for a British reconciliation with Mossadeq, and
it is probably this that gave rise to the false rumors about bribes. Zahedi’s
accusations were thus intended to achieve other objectives.

This page intentionally left blank

Part II
The Baha’i Faith and the
Emergence of the Hojjatiyeh

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 3
The Baha’i Faith and Its Origins in
Shi’a Islam and Despair
The Sheikhiyya
The Sheikhiyya movement, whose name is derived from its founder Sheikh
Ahmad Ibn Zayn al-Din ibn Ibrahim al-Ahsa’i (1753–1826), developed
in Iraq at the end of the eighteenth century and the beginning of the
nineteenth century. At first its doctrine dealt mainly with the relations
between the Creator and His world and later with the essence of the belief
in the twelfth imam and the expectations for the return of the Mahdi.
Sheikh Ahmad was succeeded by two Shiite scholars: Sayyid Kazim
Rashti (1793–1843) and Karim Khan Kirmani (1809/1810–1870/1871).
Sheikh Ahsá’í’s contribution to the Sheikhiyya was the doctrine of the
Perfect Shi’a ( Shi’a al-Kamil ) according to which the Perfect Shi’a is the
means by which God bestows his glory upon his creatures and is the inter-
mediary between the imams and the believers. This was the way the
Sheikhiyya solved an ancient Shiite theological dilemma concerning the
way believers could communicate with the imam who was in occultation
for many years. 1 The Sheikhiyya did not invent the concept of the Perfect
Shi’a but were able to shape it to the current situation in the Shi’i world.
Sheikh Ahsá’í used the historical precedent of the Ismai’li and Sufi inter-
pretations of the term “Perfect Shi’a” in order to present their Perfect Shi’a
while emphasizing the need “of the perfect guide in the course of man’s
spiritual evolution.” In this way the concept of the Perfect Shi’a, which is
the vice-regency ( Wilaya ), became the Fourth Pillar of Shi’a Islam, after
the unity of God, prophethood, and the recognition of the Imam. This

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
renewed concept helped the Sheikhiyya to handle the question of how the
revealed meditation of the deputy (i.e., the mediator between the Hidden
Imam and the Shi’i community who was called the Bab and could also be
the senior Ulama) could function as a reflection of the word of the Hidden
Imam and as his representative. 2
The Sheikhiyya (as in all monotheistic religions) denies the possibility
of there being any human understanding of the essence of God, for God,
by definition a being that man cannot contain, is essentially inconceivable
as a nonmaterialistic entity and, therefore, there can be no possible rela-
tionship between God and man. What then constitutes the link between
God and His creatures? And what is its temporal manifestation?
Sheikh Ahmad was able to reintroduce the idea “of the mystical philoso-
phy ( hikmat-i ilahi )” due to the emergence of the Usuli School that enabled
the use of legalism and jurisprudence,, and this helped Sheikh Ahsá’í to
“push mystical philosophy even further to the edge of the world of Twelver
Shi’ism.” The adoption and use of Usuli methodology to provide mystical
interpretations of the Shi’a’s main essence as the Imamate and Occultation
was with far-reaching consequences for the Usulis who insist “that truth
should be obtained by  ijtihad and through rational processes.” 3
Fortunately the Imamate came to the rescue for, according to Sheikh
Ahsá’í, God created the eternal light ( Noor ), which passed through the
prophets from Adam to Prophet Muhammad himself. With his death the
light was passed on through the imams and his descendants to the twelfth
imam, the Mahdi. This light was the source of all creation and, through
his association with the imam, the believer learns this concept of God.
The Sheikhiyya gained the support of certain Shi’a clergy and posed a
challenge to the traditional interpretations of certain basic Islamic/Shiite
concepts such as the resurrection of the dead, the meaning of paradise, and
the post-Mahdi reality. These interpretations were harshly criticized by
other clerics, who totally negated Ahsá’í’s attitude for attributing ungodly
qualities to God and for deviating from classical Shi’a concepts of the mil-
lennium and the resurrection of the dead.
The Sheikhiyya did not disappear with Ahsá’í’s death but gained more
adherents among Shiites in Iraq, Iran, and other locations in the Middle
East. Ahsá’í’s successor as spiritual leader, Sayyid Kazim Rashti, had to
face issues within the sect as well as social changes and a Shi’a revival all
over the area. The revival coincided with the approach of the year 1260
to the  Hijra , which, according to Shi’a tradition, would be the one thou-
sandth anniversary of the Mahdi’s disappearance. 4 At that time during the
first half of the nineteenth century many Iranians were ready for the mes-
sianic call. 5 They were fertile ground waiting for the right seed.
At this time theory was transforming itself into deed and the abstract
discussions about the Mahdi within the Sheikhiyya were turning into the

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
theology of his imminent return. Sayyid Kazim Rashti, who was outspo-
ken about the event, ordered his followers in his will to actively seek the
Hidden Imam and, following his death in 1843, they excitedly tried to
carry out their mentor’s will. 6
The Babi Faith
Sayyid ‘Alí-Muhammad was born in 1819 to a family of merchants in
Shiraz but soon afterward his father died and he was raised by his mater-
nal uncles. Notwithstanding his broad education, which consisted of the
traditional religious education as well as learning classical Persian and
Arabic, the language of the Quran, he followed in his family’s tradition
and became a merchant. He did not, however, desert religion and went on
many pilgrimages to the Shi’a holy places. Sayyid ‘Alí-Muhammad made
Kazim’s acquaintance in 1841, was attracted to the latter’s teachings, and,
since the Sheikhiyya was mostly centered in Iraq, he too traveled to the
Shiite holy places in that country. There he attended many of Kazim’s
lectures about the Shi’a and was deeply influenced by his ideas about the
Imamate.
After Kazim’s death (December 31, 1843) his followers went look-
ing for the Hidden Imam in the belief that their mentor’s will was pro-
phetic. Sayyid ‘Alí-Muhammad returned to his business in Shiraz, and
there he was transformed. While searching for the imam one of Kazim’s
senior pupils, Mullá Hussein, reached Shiraz and there he encountered
Sayyid ‘Alí-Muhammad, who broke the news that the search was over
for Hussein had found the Hidden Imam. At this stage ‘Alí-Muhammad
entitled himself “Bab,” which literally means “Gate” and, within the Shi’a
tradition, may be interpreted as a “gate” to the Hidden Imam, literally a
medium between the believers and the imam, or even the imam himself as
a medium between the believers and God.
From this moment, May 22, 1844, the Sheikhiyya began emerging into
a new reality, that of the discovered Mahdi (The Bab). ‘Alí-Muhammad,
with his new title, started surrounding himself with believers, the first
among them being Sheikh Kazim’s followers and others who were expect-
ing the reappearance of the Mahdi at that time. Reality, however, was
not as utopian and clear as it seemed to the Bab and his followers. Many,
especially among the Shiite clergy, not only opposed the idea of him as the
new Mahdi but also demanded that the Qajar authorities oppose him and
that they put an end to his activities. 7
The Qajar regime, notwithstanding its traditional policy of separating
religion from the state, sought to preserve its religious legitimacy, especially

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
in consideration of the opposition to the new movement among the senior
clergy, 8 and tended to join those who condemned Babism and its hold on
society in Iran. The Bab was arrested and his many followers, who were
gathering to take part in the materialization of history, were denied access
to their leader. 9
Even in jail, however, the Bab continued his activities and his religious
writings reached his followers who disseminated them among the public.
His magnum opus, written in jail, was the  Bayan (Interpretation), a book
that marked out the border separating the new movement from traditional
Shi’a and made the claim that the  Bayan was in fact the new Divine Law
replacing the Quran and annulling Muhammad’s prophecy. From then
on, the Bab claimed to be not only the Mahdi, Muhammad’s successor,
but the true revelation of God upon earth. 10
Babism was considered to be a new religion, born of the general social
unrest and the yearning for the Mahdi. The senior clergy in Iran and later
in Iraq, realizing the danger, started condemning the sect theologically as
well as physically wherever it spread among Shi’a believers.
Among the tenets of Babism stipulated in the  Bayan , there were many
essentially different religious innovations, especially considering their ema-
nation from a rigid religion such as the Shi’a but also when seen from the
wider angle of cosmopolitical and social realities. First and foremost among
them was the declaration of gender equality, which was in contradiction to
all shades of Islam and even to the reality of the times everywhere on earth.
This gender equality resulted in the practical annulment of all the strict
rules about impurity contained within the Shi’a, which removed women
from all social and economic activities. The  Bayan annulled the ban on
forbidden foodstuffs such as pork but kept the one against alcohol and
drug consumption.
The Bab strove to innovate and challenge in the area of theology as
well. The  Bayan ruled against all the classical material interpretations,
Shiite as well as Sunni, of heaven and hell. These, it maintained, ran coun-
ter to common sense and therefore were invalid. As a new religion Babism
sought to distance itself from its Shiite sources in practice as well and the
Bab ordered a reduction in the number of daily prayers and even canceled
public prayer. On the other hand, the Bab did not seek to void all previous
religions and saw them as links in a long chain of prophesies and religions
sent from God to humanity, whose recurrences did not come to an end
with his appearance. According to him, he was just pioneering a new pro-
phetic phase, which would continue for generations to come. 11
Since he was only heralding a new chain of prophesies within a new reli-
gion, the Bab, like his predecessor Sheikh Kazim who had ordered his fol-
lowers to seek the Hidden Imam, foresaw the emergence of future prophets

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
who would introduce humanity to new modes of God’s revelations. As he,
the Bab, had abolished the dogma of his mother religion so would his suc-
cessor prophets and he urged his followers to give them their full support.
Soon enough a circle of ardent followers formed around the Bab and
they drank in his every word and sought to broaden both his eschatological
teachings and the number of his followers. From that circle there emerged
a council of 18 members 12 who busied themselves with the study of the
new prophet’s teachings and their distribution. Among them there two
Persian half brothers: the elder, Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí, and the younger,
Mírzá Yahyá.
In 1848, Sayyid ‘Alí Muhammad Shírází, the Bab, was arrested by order
of the shah but, throughout the Bab’s incarceration in jail, his followers
continued to disseminate the new religion. The Qajari Shah, incited by the
Shi’a clergy, decided to put an end to the new movement and religion. At
the same time some members of the new sect acquired arms and organized
themselves to act against the shah’s army thus upholding the Bab’s vision
of establishing a political entity which would implement the laws of the
new religion. The shah, urged by the Shi’a clergy, was determined to crush
the Babis’ rebellion.
Even after crushing the rebellion in Sheikh Tabarsi (September 1948–
May 1849), 13 the regime, assisted by the Shi’a clergy, continued to persecute
the Bab’s followers all over the country. Believing that eliminating the Bab
would cause the whole movement to collapse, the Shi’a clergy urged Shah
Nasr al-Din to execute him and, in July 1850, the Bab was executed. He
mysteriously survived the first volley of shots, was found back in his cell,
and was shot again. His body and that of one of his followers were thrown
to the dogs and were secretly buried later by some of his followers. 14
The Bab’s clandestine and persecuted community needed a new tem-
poral and spiritual leader as have all followers of the great prophets who
studied at the feet of their mentors and in time became their successors and
leaders of communities. By virtue of the fact that those who studied first
hand with their prophets could pass on both the written and unwritten
doctrines the Babis’ were similar to all other prophetic religions.
The two figures that attracted most attention among members of the
sect were Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí, and his half brother Mírzá Yahyá. The
latter was closer to the Bab and expected to become the natural leader
but, due to Yahya’s youth and inexperience, his brother Mírzá Hussein
took the lead. Meanwhile the Qajar regime continued its persecution of
the Babis using such pretexts as “failed attempts” against the regime and
even against the shah himself. Finally the shah decided to rid himself of
Babism and twenty thousand of their number were subsequently cruelly
killed within a short time. 15

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
The rest of the Babis and followers had no choice but to run for their
lives, otherwise they and their religion would both perish. 16 Mírzá Yahyá, the
younger half brother, was one of the refugees but the older Mírzá Hussein-’Alí
Núrí turned himself in. Claiming that he had nothing to do with the failed
attempt on the shah’s life did him no good, and he was sent to jail. His impris-
onment signifies a crucial turning point for the movement since, although
Mírzá entered jail as a Babi, he left it as something totally different. 17
The Baha’i Faith
Imprisonment, whether a person is guilty or not, isolation from family
and society, from freedom, the inability to act as one wishes, and more, all
these may break the spirit of a man and may even lead one to take one’s
own life. Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí was a member of the upper classes of his
country and, as such, perhaps losing his physical freedom was even more
difficult; however he was determined not to lose his spiritual freedom.
Mírzá was incarcerated in Tehran’s “Black Pit,” which, in mid-nineteenth
century, was one of the most notorious dungeons in the Middle East. Once
the underground reservoir of a public bath its only exit was a single passage
up three steep flights of stone steps. Prisoners huddled in their own bodily
wastes in the pit’s inky gloom, languishing in the subterranean cold and
stench-ridden atmosphere.
Such circumstances can easily cause one to lose one’s mind or, even
worse, plunge one into deep introspection or, alternatively, to develop
insights that are perhaps impossible to reach elsewhere. Mírzá Hussein-’Alí
Núrí was endowed with great spiritual strength and during his time in jail
he experienced many mystical visions, in one of which he was visited by the
“Maid of Heaven” who informed him that he was “The Chosen.” 18
Nearly every historical event has its own defining moment, a kind
of exit from the known reality into the unknown, at least at first. Such
moments are imprinted as spiritual and cultural assets, something that is
created of itself and which serves as a bridge from the abandoned past to
the welcoming future. The prophet and the event communicate with two
realities—one that is losing its relevance and is therefore coming to an end,
and the other still a possibility, even utopian. Such was the moment when
Abraham circumcised himself (and his sons) in the defining, creative event
that transformed Abram the “Everyman” into Abraham, “The Father of
Monotheism.” Such was the Revelation on Mount Sinai, when a still pre-
dominantly pagan people became “the Chosen People,” and such was the
conquest of pagan Mecca by Muhammad and its Islamisation. 19

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
Unlike Sayyid ‘Alí-Muhammad the founder of Babism, who received the
message of revelation from his mentor Sheikh Kazim, Mírzá  Hussein-’Alí
Núrí received his from a spiritual entity: “The maid of Heaven.” The term
is unclear since up till then neither Judaism nor Islam had ever concerned
themselves, in writing or orally, with such female entities. Therefore the
event represented two new phenomena: a superhuman revelation and a
female angel.
Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí was informed that he was “The Chosen,” and
consequently believed that God was incorporated in his physical and spiri-
tual being, that he was the vehicle through which God had chosen to be
revealed to his creations. At this stage of his spiritual development it is
obvious that Mírzá was still thinking in terms of classical Shi’a, although
Babism had already detached itself from the Shi’a and considered itself on
a higher religious level. In other words, notwithstanding the abandonment
of the Shi’a theology in favor of that of the  Bayan , Hussein-’Alí continued
nurturing the notion of the cosmic identity of the Mahdi. Moreover, his
divinely revealed self-definition was intended to place him above the Shi’a
and Babism since, according to Babism, the Mahdi is the “gate” (Bab)
between God and his creation, certainly not the incarnation of God because
nothing can rise to the level of the creator. 20 Even the Bab never claimed to
be an incarnation of God and was content with being the Mahdi, at least
according to the Shi’a.
After completing the mystical experience and receiving the tidings of
his mission, Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí became a different man. He had
entered the prison as Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí, a Babi, but left it with a
new name—Baha’u’llah 21 and—a new set of spiritual conceptions that, by
definition, could not be less than those offered by the Bab. Meanwhile his
family acted to secure his release and, in 1853, the Baha’u’llah was set free,
not to his home but to exile.
The Baha’u’llah could not endanger himself or the divine message that
he was carrying by revealing himself in Iran or even in Iraq, his new place
of exile. First of all he had to take care of his own safety and to reorganize
the devotees of the Babi community. We may assume that the Baha’u’llah
chose to concentrate his efforts on that community, where he was known
as an authority on the Bab’s teachings and was one of the 18, rather than
try to organize a new one away from his natural Persian environment.
Most members of the Babi community escaped from persecution in
Iran to Iraq. The Baha’u’llah was exiled in 1853 from Iran to Baghdad
where he joined his younger half brother Mírzá Yahyá who was leading
the Babi community, although from a distance, and was probably aware
of his brother’s delicate situation and the danger of persecution. In any
case, with the return of the older brother enveloped in the aura of having

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
survived the hardships of prison and the grave accusations against him, the
other members of the community accepted the Baha’u’llah’s spiritual and
temporal leadership. 22
In 1854 the Baha’u’llah quit Baghdad, detaching himself from the Babi
community there and moved to Kurdistan, where he stayed for two years
at a Sufi monastery. In 1856 the Babis of Baghdad, fed up with his broth-
er’s failed leadership, asked the Baha’u’llah to return to them, but without
stating this explicitly, they declared him to be their spiritual leader. Within
a short while the Baha’u’llah’s popularity among the Babis rose especially
in his role as an interpreter of complicated issues of dogma.
The years 1856–1863 were crucial for the Baha’u’llah’s spiritual inde-
pendence. Being the “mentor” and the person most informed on Babism
endowed him with the unprecedented legitimacy and spiritual authority to
take Babism in the direction most suitable to him, in fact to transform it
into a new religion. Aside from his daily activities within the community,
the Baha’u’llah turned to writing (mainly the Persuasion book and “ Kitáb-i
Aqdas ”), thus fulfilling the basic requirement of any new religion, namely,
the provision of a written doctrine that would distance the new religion
from its sources. 23
His main thesis was that the interpretation of the Holy Scriptures is
the privilege of prophets and none other, thereby implying that he, the
Baha’u’llah, was a prophet, for who, beside a prophet, can make such a
claim? Moreover, it also implied that the clergy were superfluous for who
can dare overrule any saying of the prophet? Another implication was that
the prophets were not presently being heard because the believers were too
attentive to the clergy who were distorting the scriptures in order to tighten
their hold on the believers. Therefore, in order to be exposed to the word of
the living God, the believers needed to listen directly to the prophet.
Within the Shi’a, from which Babism emerged, the sanctity of the clergy
was an axiom since the imam’s Occultation had endowed them with the
temporal powers of interpretation. Therefore the Baha’u’llah’s new claims
hinted at two things: (1) by using their status to control the Shi’a commu-
nity, the clergy had failed in their temporal mission; and (2) that he, the
Baha’u’llah, leader of the Babis, and not his predecessor, the Bab, was the
Mahdi, the true messenger or the “incarnation of God.”
The Bab revealed himself in 1844, the year 1260 to the Hijra, and
the one thousandth anniversary of the birth of the “Hidden Imam” who
was born in the 260 to the Hijra. The Bab sought to validate an ancient
Shi’a tradition by his appearance on this date for this was the day that
the Mahdi would reappear. Nineteen years later (1279 to the Hijra and
1,019 years since the birth of the Mahdi) the Baha’u’llah decided to reveal
himself, first among a small group of adherents and later to the entire

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
community. The number 19 was not coincidental and in the years to come
it acquired a spiritual significance among the Baha’is. 24
The Baha’u’llah’s revelation coincided with the Ottoman authority’s
decision to again exile him from Baghdad to Istanbul because, due to
his presence, Babism was flourishing again after his brother’s lukewarm
leadership. This forced separation in fact led to the development of the
Baha’i religion for at this stage the physical separation was, unknown to
the Ottomans, also a spiritual one from Babism. 25
The year 1863 was one of wandering and from Iraq the Baha’u’llah and
his small flock were exiled to Istanbul and from there, like hot potatoes, to
Edirne. From then on the Baha’u’llah and his brother Mírzá Yahyá quar-
reled over the leadership of the sect until the former decided in 1866 that
the time was right to declare himself publicly as the Mahdi, the one that
“God will reveal at the appropriate time,” as promised by the Bab. The
Ottoman authorities were not happy with the brothers’ sojourn at Edirne
and both were sent to Acre, then considered to be a place of exile.
The struggle between the Baha’u’llah and Mírzá Yahyá, now entitled
“Subh-i-Azal” (morning of eternity), intensified over time for the younger
brother also now claimed to be the Mahdi. This led to confusion among
their adherents for each had a claim to the prerogative of using this title,
the older because of his erudition and the younger because of his long prox-
imity to the Bab. Sometimes what is needed to decide what to do with two
disputants is a higher authority and, in this case, it was the Ottomans.
The Ottomans chose a course of “divide and rule” between the brothers
with the older being kept in custody at the fortress of Acre and Subh-i-Azal
being sent with his flock to Cyprus. Subh-i-Azal may, at first, have enjoyed
keeping a distance from his rival brother, however, of the two locations,
Cyprus was the real land of exile. Subh-i-Azal found himself isolated there
because of his lack of means, and because the island did not offer any possi-
bility for communication with the other Babi communities. The Baha’u’llah,
on the other hand, could communicate with his followers, especially those
residing in Iraq and Iran. Given this situation, it became quite clear who
would be able to leave his mark on history by creating a new religion out of
the ashes of the abandoned one. 26
The Tenets of the Baha’i Religion
Like all religions Baha’ism was not created out of nothing. The religious
origins of a new religion bequeath some of its tenets and rules to the
new religion and these may be adopted warmly and adapted to become

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
new and abiding rules. In such a manner Judaism adopted animal sacri-
fices, Christianity adapted some basic Jewish tenets, and Islam embraced
pre-Islamic customs such as the Hajj, and so on. Baha’ism grew out of a
messianic religion and therefore it was easier for its founder, a cleric who
had both the power and the knowledge to decide what was and what was
not necessary. Thus he was able to take whatever suited his vision from its
predecessor and to give up what did not.
As mentioned earlier, a new religion that seeks to challenge its predeces-
sors and gain popularity must create its own written and oral law such as
the Torah, The New Testament, the Quran, Avestā, and so on. The holiest
book of the Baha’i faith, and the source of its vitality, is the  Kitáb-i Aqdas ,
the book of laws written by the Baha’u’llah. The book covers a wide range
of topics including laws and principles of personal conduct and the gover-
nance of society, as well as mystical writings dealing with the progress of
the soul and its journey toward God. The Baha’is recognize, although on
a lower level, the sanctity of the Bible, the Quran, and the holy texts of the
world’s other revealed religions.
The Theological Development of Baha’ism
The  Kitáb-i Aqdas , which contains the basic tenets of the Baha’i religion,
was published in 1868, the same year in which the Baha’u’llah proclaimed
himself a prophet of a new religion and claimed that The Bab was merely
his harbinger.
In the following years, the Baha’u’llah and his son Abbas developed the
basic tenets of the new religion, according to which every prophet repre-
sented a religious development unique to his own generation. Baha’ism,
however, sanctifies all historical prophets including the last of them,
Muhammad, and the Baha’u’llah even argued that there would be other
prophets who would appear after him and it is this that led to the essential
contradiction between Baha’ism and Islam.
What is the Purpose of Prophesy?
Islam postulates that Muhammad was the last prophet; so whoever proph-
esied after Muhammad was by definition a pretender and thus an oppo-
nent of Islam. Baha’ism did not see any contradiction between this concept
and its own claim concerning the Baha’u’llah, since Muhammad was the

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
last prophet of a certain cycle, the last in a series of true prophets. The Bab
and the Baha’u’llah signified a new cycle of prophesy of which they were
the harbingers and who would be followed by other prophets. Therefore,
Baha’ism claims, it contradicted neither Islam nor any other religion. 27
According to Baha’ism all the prophets strive to unify all religions into
one moral, universal religion and aspire to a human fraternity based on
religion and morality. In his books,  Kitáb-i Aqdas and  Kitáb-i Iqan , the
Baha’u’llah developed these moral-social universal values, which defied
Islam, and even his teacher the Bab, by introducing specific laws that
contradicted those of Islam. His fundamental innovation was his total
objection to war and anything that had to do with  jihad (one of the main
tenets of the Shi’a even though, under the Shi’a, the right to declare  jihad
belonged only to the Hidden Imam and, until then,  jihad was to be seen
as a private struggle against one’s desires). He actually ruled against all
kinds of violence, except in the case of self-defense; thus the Baha’is were
forbidden to serve in any army (they are pacifists) and certainly not as
combatants.
The Baha’u’llah went even further and demanded social equality—the
abolition of all social classes—and was among the first in the world to
express socialist concepts in the age of capitalist development at the expense
of feudalism. He called for the abolition of public prayers, except at funer-
als, and encouraged his followers to pray privately so that each believer
would face his creator without middlemen, each setting the content, tim-
ing, and form of his own communication with God. As a consequence
of this the Baha’u’llah abolished the “Qibla,” praying toward Mecca, and
replaced it with Acre where he lived and died. He abolished the Shi’a laws
of impurity and cleansing but requested that his followers be strict in mat-
ters of cleanliness and hygiene.
In fact the Baha’u’llah abolished most Islamic prohibitions, allowing
the believers to do anything as long as it did not infringe on common
sense. He abolished the clergy and all their functions and concentrated all
jurisdiction in the Baha’i religion into the hands of the Prophet himself
(For Shi’a-Baha’ism table of diversities, see Table 3.1 on page 63).
The Baha’u’llah was succeeded by his eldest son, Abbás Effendi, who
created the second circle of Baha’ism. While he limited his activities to a
closed circle of followers Abbás, now titled ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (servant of Bahá),
concentrated his efforts on the west in order to transform Baha’ism into a
universal religion. He traveled in Western Europe and the United States
recruiting many new adherents who contributed the money necessary to
establish the institutions of the new religion. These centers became shrines
of meditation and peace of mind, surrounded by greenery and flowers, in
which the soul of man could be one with nature and therefore with God.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Baha’ism in fact targeted itself at all religions and many people deserted
their religions to become Baha’is. As a part of the universalizing process,
Abdul Baha decided that a common language was needed and, at first,
adopted Esperanto and, later, English. To this day English is the official
language of Baha’ism.
The Theology and Spiritualism of Baha’ism
The Baha’u’llah taught that there is only one God whose historical revela-
tions have brought the world its cultural and spiritual life and that, over the
years, “God’s messengers” have founded separate religions whose sole pur-
pose has been to instill spiritual perfection in man. The Baha’u’llah’s new
spiritual contemplation brought about the following commandments.
1.  The abandonment of all prejudices. The Baha’u’llah emphasized the
need for all peoples to abandon their prejudices in order to live in
harmony for, according to him, all nations, religions, and cultures
should live in mutual understanding. There should be one human
race (therefore the Baha’is are allowed to marry into all religions)
and no nation or race should consider itself above others. All preju-
dices based on race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, and social sta-
tus are forbidden and humanity should advance toward peace and
a global, righteous society. The Baha’u’llah not only demanded that
his flock abandon all prejudices but also that they should respect
each and every culture and religion.
2.  The status of women. The emancipation of women and total equal-
ity between the sexes is seen as a crucial step on the road to world
peace since any denial of such a world order is an injustice toward at
least 50 percent of the human race. Equality should start at home,
advance to the workplace, and then to politics and international
relations. There is no moral, practical, or biological justification for
the inequality of the sexes and world peace and tranquility depend
on the full integration of women into all kinds of human activi-
ties. Civil society must reorganize itself so that all the faculties that
women have can be fully expressed, because “[a]lways and forever,
Man and woman are equal before God.” It is important to note that
full equality for women was not prescribed in the  Kitáb-i Aqdas and
that it was the ‘Abdu’l-Bahá who righted this wrong. 28
3.  A universal religion. The principle of the “unity of religion” is central
to Baha’ism. According to the Baha’u’llah, religion developed just

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
like a human being, from a baby into a grown, intelligent person.
This means that humanity started out as a primitive social collective
but now has matured and is ready for a union of all communities.
An individual human being develops along the lines of the educa-
tion he receives from his parents, teachers, and society in general.
As for humanity in general, it grows as a result of the influences of
the religions of revelation. Why? Because God, the creator, always
has and always will intervene in the course of human history (inde-
terminism). This intervention is embodied in the messengers who
divulge His law to humanity and these messengers were the found-
ers of the great religions—Abraham, Moses, Buddha, Zoroaster,
Jesus, Muhammad, and so forth. The laws that they have brought
from God over the generations have created an international moral-
ity that leads the world toward unity. These messengers are in fact
the educators of humanity. God intends to unite all religions into
a universal one—the religion of the Lord. This is to be an evolu-
tionary religion and each previous religion is a step in the ladder of
its evolution bequeathing to humanity its eternal scriptures—and
Baha’ism itself is a step toward the evolution of this unified religion.
The Baha’u’llah did not claim to be the last prophet but, according
to him, the next and greater prophesy would only be revealed to
humanity in a thousand years. Regrettably, at present all religions
are competing with each other, each claiming to be the only true
one. Judaism claims Christianity to be false, Christianity vilifies
Islam, and so forth. Baha’ism, in contrast, believes in the unity of all
religions and in the equality of all the great prophets.
4.  A ban on the economic extremes of poverty and riches. Unity, according
to Baha’ism, is based on justice and one of the evident signs of injus-
tice in the world is the grave inequality in the distribution of riches.
A small percentage of humanity holds most of the riches while the
great masses are poor. This gulf exists within the nations and among
them. What does Baha’ism offer in exchange? First of all it offers a
different mental and emotional conception of material things—one
that is religious. Accordingly all the present economic philosophies
are contrary to the true nature of man since all the ingredients of
economy are divine by nature and bound to the world in heart and
spirit. The “sickness” prevailing in the world is the lack of love and
altruism. Economic injustice is contrary to divine intention and
a heinous crime in the eyes of God. All natural resources should be
distributed equally among mankind and this can only be achieved
through the cooperation of all nations and the economic institutions
of each nation. Even within a cooperative society, however, Baha’ism

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
still recognizes the right to private property and economic entrepre-
neurship. The Divine Economy does not specify an equal distri-
bution of wealth among all and recognizes that there are natural,
social, and cultural differences in needs. While Baha’ism supports a
minimum salary that will satisfy the basic needs of all and requires
society to take care of the basic needs of those who are unable to
achieve this by themselves, it also supports the concept of a maxi-
mum salary in order to prevent undue enrichment.
5.  Universal education. Baha’ism sees the acquisition of knowledge as
humanity’s added value and a general duty. Knowledge plays a cru-
cial role in the shaping of human and social life and its impartation
from generation to generation is what constitutes culture. Baha’ism
urges governments to support education because the development
of any nation depends on the education of its individual citizens.
It believes that scientific development leads to equality and to the
disappearance of prejudices, and that it is a basic requirement for
the success of each nation. Baha’ism calls on international agencies
and organizations to assist in the education of women in particular
because educated mothers are a precondition to the development of
all aspects of human society.
6.  An independent inquiry of the truth. Baha’ism believes that each
human being is required to seek knowledge and to see the truth
“through his own eyes.” One of the main causes of confrontations
in the world is the fact that people follow religions, cultures, hab-
its, and opinions blindly and uncritically. God has provided every-
one with the intelligence to examine, understand, and distinguish
between right and wrong. Whoever clings to unexamined habits
and opinions becomes intolerant toward those whose opinions dif-
fer from his and such differences may lead to confrontations and
wars. Baha’ism believes that history testifies that these occur as the
result of misunderstandings and misinterpretations of God’s decrees
and that he who seeks knowledge by himself will be able to under-
stand the reasons for his attachment to a sect or an ideology. The
belief of Baha’ism is that one religion and one reality will finally
lead humankind to a compromise and union, which will culminate
in the discovery of the truth.
7.  Establishing an international community—globalization. Baha’ism’s
main goal is the establishment of peace among humanity. The
Baha’u’llah urged all the world leaders to settle all their differences
and pave the way to a world where there would be no borders and the
whole world would be one territory with all humanity as its citizens.

The Baha’i Faith and Shi’a Islam
The vision would be achieved by the establishment of international
institutions common to all human beings (such as the UN), which
would prevent confrontation between peoples and nations. From a
practical point of view Baha’ism prescribes:
a judicial authority that would enjoy full juridical power and
•
would guarantee proper representation to all in an international
court of law to judicially settle all international disputes and an
executive authority that would implement the verdicts and orders
of the judicial one;
these organizations would be in charge of world peace and order
•
and would safeguard the autonomy of nations and their ancient
traditions, the freedom of man, and his enterprising spirit.
8.  The union of religion and science. According to Baha’is the source of
all disunity and confrontation in the world is the current view that
postulates that a basic antagonism exists between science and religion
and that people need to choose one over the other. Baha’ism, however,
believes in the existence of one truth and the possibility of a total
Table 3.1  Baha’ism and Shi’a—the adoption and repudiation of religious
principles  29
Baha’ism
Twelfth Imam Shi’a
Calendar
361 days per year, 19
months per year, 19 days
per month
354 days per year, 12
months per year, 29–30
days per month
Clergy
Do not have
Have
Public prayers
Forbidden except during
funerals
Obligatory on Fridays and
holy days
Qibla
Acre
Mecca
Fasting
The month of 19 days
The month of Ramadan
Charity
Nonobligatory
Obligatory, one of the
Arkan al-Islam
Marriage and divorce
Full accord of both sides 30
Women have inferior
status especially
regarding divorce
Interest taking
Allowed
Forbidden
Alcohol consumption
Forbidden
Forbidden
Laws of impurity
None
Very strict
Forbidden foods
None
Forbidden

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
harmony between the two because, they argue, nothing is scientifically
right yet religiously false and vice versa. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
If religious beliefs and opinions are found contrary to the standards of
science, they are mere superstitions and imaginations; for the antithesis
of knowledge is ignorance, and the child of ignorance is superstition.
Unquestionably there must be agreement between true religion and sci-
ence. If a question be found contrary to reason, faith and belief in it are
impossible, and there is no outcome but wavering and vacillation.
And the Baha’u’llah affirmed that man’s intelligence and reason-
ing powers are a gift from God: “This gift gives man the power to
discern the truth in all things, leads him to that which is right, and
helps him to discover the secrets of creation.” 31
Baha’u’llah’s Attitude to the Shi’a Clergy
As mentioned earlier the Baha’u’llah opposed all clergy and claimed that
the Prophet alone can interpret God’s truth. He was especially wary of the
fanaticism of those clerics who felt they were under attack from opinions
refuting their dogma. 32 In the  Kitáb-i Aqdas he foresaw being attacked
by the Shi’a clergy because of their ignorance and erroneous study meth-
ods. He predicted their vilification of him and his teachings and urged his
believers to ignore the clergy. There was, however, much more than this
that made him anathema in the eyes of the Shi’a.

Chapter 4
The Hojjatiyeh Society
The Iranian Clergy versus the
Baha’i Faith: The Background to the
Foundation of the Hojjatiyeh
The roots of the Shi’a clergy’s burning hatred of Baha’ism, the offspring
of Babism, can be found in Sayyed ‘Alí-Muhammad’s assumption of
the title “Bab,” which means the gate to the Hidden Imam. The Ulama
challenged his very contention and finally brought about his execution
in 1850. Babism, unlike the Baha’u’llah’s teachings, did not call for the
abolishment of the clergy but it did challenge their domination within the
Shi’a community and hinted that, following the imminent reappearance of
the Mahdi, their historic role would be altogether annulled. Ideologically,
from both the Shi’a’s and the Sunnah’s points of view, Islam was to be
the last religion given by God to humanity and there was no way a new
religion could claim to inherit Islam and simultaneously recruit the Shi’a’s
Mahdi to its service. 1
The Baha’is, moreover, believe the Shi’a’s hostility stems from the fact
that the Baha’i believe the appearances of the Bab and the Baha’u’llah in
fact realize the Shi’a’s own prophecy regarding the reappearance of the
imam. 2 The persecution of the Baha’is began at the beginning of the twen-
tieth century and intensified with the rise of the Pahlavi Dynasty. In 1933
the regime banned the publication of Baha’i literature, Baha’i marriages
were not recognized, their spiritual center was set on fire, and 50 Baha’i
schools in Iran were forced to close down. 3

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Following the downfall of Mossadeq in 1953, it was evident that
Kashani and his supporters, the Fada’iyan-i Islam, were among the agita-
tors that had brought this about. They had joined the incitement and dem-
onstrations calling for his resignation, and had actually formed the nucleus
of the chaos and public disorder that resulted in his downfall. In their
opinion, Mossadeq’s “crime” was his support of the communist party, the
Tudeh, who were suspected of atheism (but who also shared their hatred
of the British), and this support made it very difficult for Kashani and his
flock to keep supporting and legitimizing Mossadeq. 4
Despite their quitting the political arena, the influence of the clergy
surprisingly rose at the royal court in the years following Mossadeq’s
downfall. The shah realized that due to his shaky political situation and
the danger posed by the clergy to his regime, he should embrace them—at
least until the stabilization of his rule.
Mutahhari and Bazargan created a plan for the establishment of an
Islamic state only after the Mossadeq crisis, 5 probably as a consequence of
the temporal blossoming of religious affairs and the interest of the clergy
in politics. Although Davari notes that the following were four religious
organizations that emerged in the decade following Mossadeq’s fall 6 he
never mentions the Hojjatiyeh (or any other of their names or variations
such as  Anjuman zad Bahayt ) 7 :
Anjuman-i Islami-yi Muhandisin (The Islamic Association of Engineers
1957–1958, by Bazargan and others)
Anjuman-i Islami-i Mu’allimin (The Islamic Association of Teachers
1958–1959)
Anjuman-i Mahanih-yi Dini (The Monthly Religious Association, 1960)
Anjuman-i Islami-i Pizishkan (The Islamic Association of Physicians,
1960–1961, by Mutahhari, Bazargan, and Ali Raja’i—the latter was
a Hojjatiyeh member). Many of its members would be among the
Islamic regime’s rank-and-file. 8
As noted in  chapter two , after the fall of Mossadeq’s government, the
clerics believed that their dissociation from government had assisted the
shah and his associates and so expected to be rewarded. At that stage they
sought to convert their apparent political power into a reality that would
advance their religious goals in the country. Their immediate targets
were the Tudeh party, which represented secularism and atheism, and the
Baha’is, which represented a fundamental distortion of classical Shi’a and
the Imamate doctrine. 9
The  Marja’ Taqlid of that period, as mentioned earlier, was the Ayatollah
Borujerdi who was well aware of the changing times and his new political

The Hojjatiyeh Society
and religious options. Borujerdi was not interested in politics, which he
despised, but hoped to revive the ancient political tradition whereby the
senior clergy ruled the country behind the scenes.
In a letter sent in June 1955 Borujerdi demanded that the prime min-
ister, Hossein Ala’, take action against the proliferation of the Baha’i reli-
gion in the country because it was the antithesis of Shi’a Islam. Borujerdi
demanded that the government shut down all the Baha’i places of wor-
ship and employ in its service only members of recognized religions.
The Ayatollah reminded the prime minister of a clause in the Iranian
Constitution that prohibited the employment of members of unrecognized
religious minorities in the civil service. 10
In addition to the letter Borujerdi instructed Muhammad Taqi Falsafi,
a popular radio broadcaster and one of his collaborators, to include
anti-Baha’i propaganda in his broadcasts. Falsafi, after discussing the mat-
ter with the shah, who authorized the project, aired the broadcast during
the month of Ramadan in 1955, and it was very damaging to the Baha’i
minority. 11
The propaganda campaign of Borujerdi and Falsafi, under the auspices
of the shah and his regime, led to the destruction of the main Baha’i places
of worship. Representatives of the regime were present at the destruction
(General Nader Batmaglich and Tymor Bakhtiar), and Shiite leaders such
as the Ayatollahs Borujerdi and Bihabani sent the shah letters of congratu-
lations and support for his actions. 12
Among Borujerdi’s messengers to the shah concerning the persecution
of the Baha’i was Khomeini who served as Borujerdi’s “chief of staff” in
the 1950s. The shah agreed to the clerics’ demands and, in 1953, he initi-
ated the establishment of a semi-clandestine religious organization called
the Hojjatiyeh Society (which, in 1957, came under the auspices of the
internal security organization, the SAVAK) whose sole purpose was the
persecution of the Baha’is. 13 The move was interpreted in religious circles
as a reward to the clerics who had sided with the shah during and after the
Mossadeq crisis. 14
The persecution of the Baha’is continued unabated at least until 1962
on the eve of the declaration of the shah’s White Revolution. The shah,
aware of his weakness vis-à-vis the religious establishment, submitted to all
their whims and the Hojjatiyeh, protected by the regime, operated virtu-
ally at their own will 15 .
Even after the insurrection of July 5, 1963, the anti-Baha’i organization
continued its activities in the public arena as well. Most of its open activities
were ideological despite the fact that the regime was actually pro-Baha’i.
While other religious groups played an active role in the struggle against
the corrupt regime, the Hojjatiyeh rejected any participation in politics

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
and the regime therefore did not feel threatened by its activities. For this
reason the Hojjatiyeh operated freely in Iran and in some cases the regime
even assisted them through the SAVAK. 16
With the declaration of the White Revolution and the encouragement
of secularism in the state, the shah disengaged himself from the clerics
and, from being partners of convenience, they became bitter enemies. This
struggle would unite the clerics against the shah and his caprices 17 and in
this war there was ultimately only one victor—the Ayatollah Khomeini.
The Foundation of  Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman —
The Hojjatiyeh Society
In his book  Hezb-i Qaadin-i Zaman (Mawsum be Anjoman-i Hojjatiyeh) 18
I’mad al-Din Baqi claims that the Hojjatiyeh Society was established
because of two reasons: the feebleness and corruption of the Qajar regime
and the British, Russian, and, later, the American presence, which pro-
moted the development of Baha’ism by allowing its propaganda to spread.
Baqi claims that the colonial powers conspired to promote Baha’ism
“in order to misrepresent Islam and prevent the revival of Islamic religious
thought and movements,” that is, the revival of the Islamic movements
along with the national and political movements.
The Hojjatiyeh Society was established before the American coup of
August 19, 1953 (the 28 Mordad coup), and was, at first, named  Anjoman-e
Khariyeh Hojjatiyeh Mahdiviyeh up until the coup. Its founder, the Iranian
cleric Sheikh Mahmud Halabi, used to broadcast daily on the state radio
station of Mashhad, which, according to Baqi, suggests that the society
might have been established even earlier than this—in the late 1940s. 19
Sheikh Mahmoud Halabi Khorasani claimed to be born in Mashhad
in 1902 (probably 1900) but he certainly died in 1998. His name, Halabi,
was a nickname shortened from Halabi-Saz—tinsmith—but he was actu-
ally called Zaker-Hussein after Hussein, the third imam. He studied phi-
losophy and ethics with Mullah Sadra 20 who was also known as Mahmud
Zakerzadeh Tavalai. 21 Halabi established the Mahdiviyat, based upon the
extreme philosophy of the Hojjatiyeh, which claims to have strong links
with the Revolutionary Guards. 22 Halabi died on January 16, 1998 (Dey 26,
1376/Ramadhan 17, 1418), the anniversary of the shah’s expulsion from
Iran. 23
The clerics noticed that in the years previous to the American coup
(Operation Ajax), Baha’i propaganda was spreading and gaining influence
over public opinion (in Iran and, perhaps, all over the Middle East), but

The Hojjatiyeh Society
what drew most of their attention was the anticlerical tone of that propa-
ganda. Sheikh Mahmud Halabi was suspected of having been exposed to
this propaganda along with Mirza Mehdi Isfahani and of having a secret
relationship with the Hidden Imam—the Mahdi. They had a third wing—
Sayyid Abbas Alavi—and they all were exposed to Baha’i propaganda. As
a result of this exposure Alavi converted to Baha’ism and wrote one of
their most popular propaganda books. Halabi, on the other hand, saw the
great danger of Baha’ism and, while reading their writings and studying
in their company, he became aware of two other Shi’a clerics who had
been influenced by Baha’ism: Muhammad Taqi Shariati and Amir Pour.
Later he arrived in Tehran where he collected information about the Baha’i
attempts at infiltrating Shi’a religious centers and convinced the Ulama of
the danger they posed and of the necessity to combat Baha’ism and Baha’i
propaganda. It was, however, a “divine call” that urged Halabi to found
the society as in 1953, or so he claimed, the  Imam-i Zaman “appeared” to
him and ordered him to fight Baha’ism. 24
The act of establishing the society as an anti-Baha’i movement is, in
itself, not really anything new since already during the 1940s movements
of this kind had appeared. The circumstances that made it possible for its
establishment were mainly the removal of Shah Reza in September 1941
and the growing feeling among the clerics that Baha’i propaganda was
beginning to influence the nature of the state. Mohammad Tavakoli-Targhi
points out that there were at least four different organizations that actively
opposed the Baha’is, either through propaganda or through directly
influencing the Iranian government to take action against them by dis-
charging them and removing them from state institutions and centers
of influence. The organizations that were established in the 1940s were
Anjoman-i Tablighat-i Islami (1942),  Jami’yat-i Ta’alimat-i Islami (1945),
Jami’yat-i Madhab-i Jafari (unknown year of foundation), and  Jami’yat-i
Hiyat-Morvijan-i Madhab-i Jafari (1947). 25
According to Tavakoli the  Anjoman-i Tablighat-i Islami was very active
against the Baha’is especially during 1950–1970 and, during the two
decades preceding the Islamic revolution (i.e., the 1960s and 1970s), this
society was mostly known as  Anjoman-i Zad-i Bahayat (the Anti-Baha’i
Society) and the Hojjatiyeh Society. 26 According to another supporting
text the Hojjatiyeh were known as the  Anjoman-i Tablighat-i Islami (the
Society for Islamic Propaganda) before the Islamic revolution and their
aim was to reduce the influence of the Baha’is in Iran. 27 Although the
Hojjatiyeh as an anti-Baha’i society was established  after the Mossadeq
crisis (and not during the 1960s and 1970s as Tavakoli claims) it consid-
ered it important to keep the respected name Hojjatiyeh. Even if the name
“The Anti-Baha’i Society” ( Anjoman-i Zad-i Bahayat ) was considered to

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
be noble and true other names were also known such as the aforemen-
tioned Hojjatiyeh and “The Party of Those Who Sit and Wait for the
Coming of the Mahdi” ( Hezb-i Qaedin ). Anyway, and under any name,
the whole purpose of establishing the organization was to fight against the
Baha’is. 28
The movement known since the 1980s as the Hojjatiyeh, however, was
actually the  Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman , which means the “imam of the gen-
eration” 29 and was established, as noted earlier, in 1953 by Sheikh Mahmoud
Halabi of Mashhad shortly after the Mossadeq Crisis. 30 Although ordered
from “above” the actual permission to establish the society was received
from the senior ayatollah of the period, the Ayatollah Borujerdi. The name
given to the society was an act of defiance against Babism and Baha’ism
and their understanding of the Mahdi, the Messiah. 31 Differing opinions
claim that the movement under the name of  Anjoman-i Zad Bahayat (The
Anti-Baha’i Society) or  Anjoman-i Sahib ul-Zaman (The Society of Lord
of the Age) was established in 1954 and was later joined by the  Anjoman-i
Ta’alimat-i Islam (The Society for Islamic Teachings) who maintained
schools, run by Haqqani and Alavi, whose graduates formed most of the
society’s supporters and later were the backbone of the Islamic Republic’s
leadership. 32 At that time the Haqqani School had a great reputation and
when one looks at the Hojjatiyeh one can see that the principles of the
Hojjatiyeh transferred naturally to the students some of whom would
later join Iranian politics after the Islamic Revolution. Anoushiravan and
Zweiri in their book  Iran and the Rise of its Neoconservatives; the Politics of
Tehran’s Silent Revolution say that the Haqqani School
was established by Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi, Ayatollah Dr. Beheshti,
Ayatollah Janati and Ayatollah Sadoughi. The reason [for] establishing such
a school was to train clerics with both traditional and modern curricula
[that included] secular [courses] such as medicine, politics, and western and
non-Islamic philosophy. Many of the influential figures in Iranian politics
today graduated from [this] Haqqaniya School. 33
This could explain the Hojjatiyeh’s tendency toward modernism despite
their conservative appearance.
In one of the footnotes to Abbas Amanat’s book  Apocalyptic Islam and
Iranian Shi’ism , he notes that “there is a confusion regarding the terms
relating to the establishment of the organization,” and “it is safe to assume
that Hojjatiyeh was the original name of the organization comprising
Islamic activity and Anti Baha’ism fanaticism.” In the 1960s and 1970s
it was known as  Anjoman-i Ta’alimat-i Islami (The Society for Islamic
Teachings), and the anti-Baha’i ingredient of the society was masked.

The Hojjatiyeh Society
Amanat supports this thesis, adding that the name Hojjatiyeh gained pop-
ularity after the Islamic Revolution. 34 Another source claims that prior to
the revolution the Hojjatiyeh were known as  Anjoman-i Tablighat-i Islami ,
whose main goal was the reduction of Baha’i influence in Iran. 35
The “Anti Baha’i Society,” as it was called, wished to be known by the
more prestigious name of Hojjatiyeh, along with other names such as “‘the
party of the sitters’ [i.e., anticipators]— Hezb-i Qaedin ” or the  Kalkhawarej .
Anyway, regardless of the name it was known by, it is important to note
that its sole purpose was to combat the Baha’i minority. 36
Prior to the revolution the Hojjatiyeh were known as  Anjoman-i
Tablighat-i Islami and, as noted earlier, their sole purpose was to combat
Baha’ism. In 1953 the shah’s regime encouraged the establishment of the
society and, in 1955, gave it its full support for, by encouraging the society’s
activities against Baha’ism, the shah was ensuring the Shi’a clergy’s sup-
port in his struggle against the communist party—the Tudeh. 37 Only after
the revolution did the society change its name to Hojjatiyeh, giving itself
an Arabic aura by adopting a derivative of another of the Hidden Imam’s
names:  Hojjat Alla ala Khalqi (the evidence/proof of God’s existence). 38
Ayatollah Ahmad Janeti linked the Baha’is and their propaganda to
the earlier presence of Americans and Israelis in Iran. The Hojjatiyeh saw
Baha’ism as an arm of the United States and Israel and, as such, a danger
to Islam since they were seen as linked to Imperialism and Zionism. 39 It is
very possible that the Hojjatiyeh’s hatred of the Baha’is derives from their
globalizing vision and the presence of their main centers in Israel with the
Baha’i temple in Haifa and the Baha’u’llah’s shrine in Acre.
The name of the society, as far as it stems from its goals, is a different
matter. We may safely assume that a society, which some argue was estab-
lished by the SAVAK (established only in 1957), and whose main purpose
was to combat Baha’ism, would assume a clear and significant name, such
as  Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman , rather than “The Anti-Baha’i Society,” for
example, which could only serve one specific goal of the society. The use of
the name  Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman symbolizes a generic agenda in order
to emphasize their eschatological Shi’a views and purposes along with their
goals and intentions regarding Bahai’sm.
It, therefore, seems that the other name clearly stating the society’s
aims was probably invented by the Baha’i. For its secondary mission, the
intellectual struggle against Khomeini’s messianic notions (during the
1970s and the first years of the Islamic Republic foundation), the soci-
ety assumed a different name—the Hojjatiyeh, which, ironically, makes
the opposite statement—devotion to the messianic aspect of the Mahdi’s
cult. The Hojjatiyeh were not truly antimessianic for they were devoted to
the idea of the Mahdi’s return to his believers but, nevertheless, opposed

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
the precipitation of this event. In principle they were against creating an
Islamic society through participating in politics, for this, historically, was
to be the exclusive function of the Mahdi. 40
Anyway, the original name,  Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman , was clearly
an anti-Baha’i declaration; in fact it was a “declaration of war” against
Baha’ism, which stands for the immediate implementation of the “Mahdi
era,” since they believe that the Baha’u’llah is the Hidden Imam, the mes-
siah of our times. In their earlier incarnation the Hojjatiyeh, who opposed
any messianic tendencies, turned against the Baha’is and, only later on, in
the 1960s and 1970s, would they turn most of their attention to opposing
Khomeini’s messianic tendencies. In return Khomeini’s supporters would
oppose the Hojjatiyeh and its ideology.
In fact, by formulating the idea of clerical rule in the present, Khomeini
postponed the implementation of the messianic ideal even further into the
future than traditional Shi’i thought required. After all, they argued, if the
perfect kind of government existed now, there would be no need to hasten
the coming of the Mahdi. On the other hand, if Khomeini’s belief meant
the eventual return of the Hidden Imam, then the entire Shia would be
considered to be messianic, and therefore, at that stage, there would be no
differentiation between Halabi and Khomeini.
It is more likely that the Hojjatiyeh were established in 1953 in
Mashhad, where Mahmud Halabi was known as a respected and influ-
ential preacher 41 although other sources claim that the society was estab-
lished in Tehran and not Mashhad. 42 Following the Mossadeq crises the
shah permitted Halabi, an enthusiastic supporter of the former, to move
forward on condition that the society would persecute the Baha’is. It seems
that, due to the sensitive political situation, the shah intended to enlist the
Ulama on his side, realizing that the clerics’ influence in the country was
on the rise.
World public opinion, especially in the United States, hindered the
shah from fully realizing his alliance with the clerics and he was forced
to officially condemn the persecution of the Baha’is but he closed his eyes
to sporadic clerical attacks against them such as the destruction of their
main temple. In view of the shah’s pullback from his intended policy the
Ayatollahs Halabi and Borujerdi published a  fatwa banning all commercial
ties between Shiites and members of the Baha’i minority.
It is important to note that Halabi, unlike the Ayatollah Kashani, was
apolitical and, like other clerics, favored a militant stance in the struggle
against the Baha’is. During those years Khomeini too was a fierce oppo-
nent of the Baha’is. 43 In any case, Halabi and his supporters viewed the
Baha’is as enemies of Islam and Iran and established their society with
the SAVAK’s blessing. They were allowed to raise donations and money

The Hojjatiyeh Society
from the merchants of the bazaar to finance armed militants and perse-
cute the Baha’is openly, “as civilians,” all under the protective umbrella of
the regime. 44 The Hojjatiyeh, however, claimed that their weapons in the
struggle against Baha’ism were purely theological.
The Islamic resurgence in Iran at the beginning of the 1950s was due
to the growing interest of the clergy in politics and the advantages it might
provide them. Things went so far that the Ayatollah Kashani claimed that
his influence in politics was greater than the shah’s. It is important to
note that Kashani was influential over the Fada’iyan-i Islam who were
responsible for many political assassinations and were leading a militant
Islamic and anti-Western policy. 45 Another reason for the awakening was
the shah’s embrace of those less militant among the clergy who were less
of a threat to his regime than the Fada’iyan-i Islam and were helpful in his
struggle against the communist Tudeh party. 46
The Grand-Ayatollah Borujerdi, sure of the power of the clergy, did
not hesitate to make demands, which, with others—especially concerning
the Baha’i minority—were implemented by the shah’s regime. Borujerdi,
aware of the respect accorded to him by Mossadeq, made demands of the
prime minister who tried to placate him with legislation, and one of the
reasons for the Ayatollah Kashani’s abandonment of Mossadeq was his
conviction that the latter was more attentive to Borujerdi’s interests than
his. 47 Until 1962 the shah had to give in to some of the cleric’s demands
such as the persecution of the Baha’is in 1955 that was led by the Hojjatiyeh
with the regime’s backing. 48
During the 1960s and 1970s, at the height of the White Revolution,
which brought about economic prosperity while suppressing religion and
reinforcing secularism, the Hojjatiyeh were an apolitical nongovernmen-
tal society that declared their total objection to Shiite messianism in its
Khomeinistic guise, and presented an antirevolutionary stand. In later
years when the shah wished to weaken Khomeinism, he took advantage of
the dispute to attack the messianic revolutionary trend and to demonstrate
sympathy toward Baha’ism. 49 This sympathy makes sense considering that
the shah’s prime minister until 1977, Amir-Abbas Hoveyda, was a Baha’i
(who had converted to Islam). On the other hand, the link between the
shah and the Hojjatiyeh concerning this “sympathetic attitude to Baha’ism”
demands clarification. The question is why, at the beginning of the 1950s
and with the backing of the senior Ayatollah Borujerdi, Halabi formed
an anti-Baha’i society. What was so urgent? How is it that an anti-Baha’i
society in the 1960s and 1970s ignored its Baha’i stance, and what was the
price they paid or got for this stand?
Sheikh Halabi who knew that such a society needed the support of the
senior ayatollah of the period, Borujerdi, soon secured it and was, perhaps,

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
even motivated by the latter. However, a society such as the Hojjatiyeh
needed adherents, supporters, and, of course, financial support, which
Halabi got from the merchants of the bazaar and the clergy—all of whom
rejected governmental intervention in the economy. 50 Needless to say fol-
lowing the Mossadeq crises the economic situation was very grave and for a
long time no foreign currency was coming in and the economy was on the
verge of collapse. The government had to revive the economy and the task
fell on the shoulders of the lower classes and the merchants, most of whom
were influenced by the clergy.
In order to spread its ideology against Baha’ism and for classical Shi’a
the society established branches and opened schools whose curriculum
was based on their ultraconservative outlook. Together with their strug-
gle against Baha’ism the Hojjatiyeh developed as a religious movement
sponsoring religious reforms and even modernism, 51 which, according to
the classical Wahabi  Bida’ (Novelty Banning) outlook, was fine as long as
modernism did not clash with Islam and served to popularize the move-
ment among the believers.
The combination of religion and science was not easily adopted by the
Hojjatiyeh since, unlike the Ussuliya, for whom the Quran and Hadith
were insufficient as sources of law and needed the addition of intellect
( ‘aql ) and consensus ( ijma’ ), the Hojjatiyeh in their philosophy (which
will be discussed later on) favored the classical notion according to which
the Quran and Hadith were the only sources of Divine law. Although
the Hojjatiyeh were not Akhbaris in this respect they adopted Akhbari
practices.
In spite of this, according to Fariba Adelkhah in her book  Being
Modern in Iran , where Baqi is used as a source for the following citation,
the Hojjatiyeh “initially intended to combat ‘the Baha’i heresy,’ [and] this
approach resembles a movement for religious reforms and modernization,
although it is rather quietist and politically conservative.” 52
To add a mystical note to the establishment of the Hojjatiyeh, Halabi
claimed to have had a dream in which the Hidden Imam ordered him
to combat the “Baha’i Movement.” 53 Four other members of the clergy
joined Halabi: Sayyid Reza Rassul, Sayyid Hussein Sadjari, Muhammad
Gholam-Hussein, and Hajj Muhammad Taqi-Tajar. 54 One man who did
not join was Mirza Mahdi Esfahani whose innovative ideology represented
antiphilosophical fanaticism and Akhbari prejudices and he was suspected
of being the main ideologist of the Hojjatiyeh ideology. The anti-Baha’i
segment of the society’s ideology was actually a minor part of Esfahani’s
complicated set of ideas.
Returning to the era after the Mossadeq crises, the clergy kept a dis-
tance from politics, which had apparently been taken over by the shah

The Hojjatiyeh Society
who nominated General Fazlollah Zahedi as his premier. During this time
Halabi left Mashhad for Tehran in order to expand the newly formed soci-
ety in the big city. As mentioned earlier his primary target was the Baha’is
and, in order to confront them ideologically, Halabi devised the “Scientific
Defense of Islam” 55 program, later called “The Halabi Program.” The pro-
gram anticipated the return of the Baha’is to Islam but those who failed
to do so would be included in a “black list,” which even allowed for their
murder without punishment. 56
The Hojjatiyeh sought to create an image of itself as an anti-Baha’i soci-
ety when in fact it was a beehive of ideas and religious notions. Although
the regime treated the society leniently the Baha’i agenda was intended to
lessen the regime’s suspicions. Prior to the Islamic Revolution Khomeini
was aware of the society’s ideology and activities but did not consider them
to be threats or adversaries.
The society’s first years, at least until Khomeini’s revolution, were dedi-
cated to combating the Baha’is but, at that time, when the Hojjatiyeh were
split by the Islamic Revolution, some of its members deserted the society to
join Khomeini’s party. In view of their belief in the Hidden Imam as the
sole motivator of political change, the Hojjatiyeh was officially apolitical
and Khomeini’s supporters actually saw it as an antirevolutionary society
bent on preserving the status quo.
The Hojjatiyeh’s set of rules stated that “the movement would not
involve itself whatsoever in politics,” and “[t]he association intends to com-
bat the Baha’i religion who cast religious doubts,” and “is inviting youth
wishing to combat these doubts.” Many clerics were not enthusiastic about
the anti-Baha’i tendencies of the society and interpreted them as an excuse
to avoid participating in political discussions or politics altogether. 57
Needless to say, although the Hojjatiyeh believed that they were practicing
the real Shi’a and that these clerics should act like them, this well-known
accusation against the society ignored the fundamental Shiite opposition
to participation of clerics in politics in general.
The turning point in the society’s history came at the beginning of
the 1970s, when some students converted to Baha’ism at the theological
seminary of Qom, which apparently was an embarrassment to the entire
religious establishment, and Sheikh Halabi, who served as an “inspector”
at the religious seminaries, 58 saw this as a personal failure. According to the
“directive” received in his dream, Baha’ism had to be uprooted everywhere
as a precondition to the imam’s return. The society, by then, had spread
to Pakistan and India, where small Baha’i minorities were being harbored,
and, because they were concerned about its growing popularity, members
of the Hojjatiyeh began infiltrating other Islamic organizations in order to
spread its influence within Iran’s Shiite population. 59

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
In any case, the Hojjatiyeh did not oppose the shah’s regime and were
well connected within the administration, which gained them the SAVAK’s
favor. They continued their activities against the Baha’is and gained many
new adherents. However their influence in politics and society was minor
in comparison to the Tudeh Party and other political and clandestine
associations. 60
The Hojjatiyeh’s Ideology
It is obvious that the Hojjatiyeh’s ideology was mainly targeted against
the Baha’i faith and minority. Baqi says that, after the Islamic Revolution,
the Hojjatiyeh espionage networks were all destroyed but for a small num-
ber, which constituted an underground group. The Hojjatiyeh’s failure to
destroy the Baha’is undermined their ideology and forced the movement
to change its direction in order to continue its activities.
Baqi says that “like other anti-revolutionary groups, they gained from
the liberty and freedom of the initial years of the revolution, spreading
their tentacles into organizations and institutions . . . And since the Baha’i
issue could no longer serve as an excuse for the continuation of their activi-
ties, they made Marxism and the Tudeh Party their main issues.” 61
The Hojjatiyeh concentrated their thinking on the actual issues of the
generation such as whether the believer should promote the second arrival
of the Mahdi or wait for him; whether the sins of the generation were so
grave as to delay his coming or the opposite; what the function of the senior
clergymen of the generation was and whether they should act to both pre-
serve the national and religious integrity of the nation and act against the
enemies of Islam.
The Hojjatiyeh, who stood for the separation of religion and state, con-
cluded that they should stay out of politics. Many of the religious lead-
ers, early supporters of Khomeini such as the Ayatollahs Mohammad Ali
Raj’ai and Sayyid Mohammad Hosseini Beheshti, however, attacked the
Hojjatiyeh, and described them as a “marginal religious group,” opponents
of the Islamic Revolution and supporters of the shah. In addition, because
they were continuing their struggle against the Baha’is (although the shah
actually promoted the Baha’is rights) and pitted Shiites against Sunnis,
these leaders of the revolution saw them as undercover subversives, leaders
of the opposition, and “dangerous to society.”
Halabi, their foremost ideologist and himself a cleric, rejected the use of
philosophy to reach the truth or God’s knowledge. He denied the human
mind’s ability to reach any conclusions concerning God’s existence or

The Hojjatiyeh Society
complexity. God, according to Halabi, is outside philosophy’s boundaries.
Philosophers and mystics cannot reach the proper level required for the
understanding and embodiment and incorporation of God’s essence. 62
The theory of  Maktabi-i Tafkik was “a new hermeneutical theory in
religious studies which emerged and soon became a powerful and domi-
nant movement in the seminary [Mashhad]. The theory was later called
Maktabi-i Tafkik (segregation) which defended the independent under-
standing of Quranic knowledge ( ma’arif-i Quran ) from allegorical and
rational inferences of Islamic texts, and firmly rejected Islamic philosophy
and mysticism.” An Iranian scholar, Muhammad Reza Hakimi, writes:
[T]he aim of this school [of thought] is the purification of Quranic knowl-
edge, to remain unmixed and to be understood clearly, without using any
Ta’vil [allegory] and mixing with other thoughts and schools, without using
tafsir-i bi ra’y [interpretation by personal opinion] and analogy, to protect
revealed facts and the principles of knowledge from mixing and being
tainted with human thought and talent. 63
The founder of the  Maktabi-i Tafkik was Mirza Mahdi Isfahani who
was the Mirza Muhammad Husain Naini’s student (1860–1936) and who
was a  Usuli . While the majority of the Ulama at that time (the early 1920s)
tended to be antirationalists (e.g., anti- Usulis ) Isfahani went the opposite
way (toward Akhbarism). Finally, the Islamic theoretician, the Ayatollah
Murtaza Mutahhari, who influenced the development of Islamic thought
on Modern Shi’i politics, chose his way and “preferred the rational and
analytical sciences to other Islamic sciences” 64 ; in other words, he chose to
become a  Usuli rather than an  Akhbari or  Tafkiki . According to Davari,
even Borujerdi himself was divided between  Akhbarism and  Usulism , but
found a way of compromise between them. 65
There are some differences between  Maktabi-i Tafkik and  Akhbarism
(traditionalists) for while “Akhbarism opposes Usulism (rationalism) in the
field of  Fiqh (Jurisprudence) the  Tafkiki doctrine in theology is in contrast
to philosophy and mysticism.” 66
Halabi was one of the Ayatollah Mirza Mahdi Isfahani’s followers, and
was infatuated with his master. The school of  Tafkik (literally, separation/
segregation) had a lot of disciples and each one of those disciples had his
own method of promoting the ideas and thoughts of the Ayatollah Isfahani.
Some disciples wrote their own notes in the master’s class and published
them and others made speeches in the mosques and among the people. The
main denominator, however, of most of the  Tafkik School’s ideas was their
opposition to Islamic theosophy and Islamic philosophy, and the major
turning point in their speeches and stories was when they emphasized the

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
importance of abstaining from traditional Islamic philosophy and theoso-
phy and embracing Islamic science, which included the rational and ana-
lytical sciences. Of all Isfahani’s disciples, Halabi was the greatest promoter
of his ideas and thoughts and always tried to broaden his methods. 67 Islamic
science means logic, philosophy, and Gnosticism all of which are alien to
Quranic teachings. 68
Among the components of the Hojjatiyeh’s ideology was the issue
of anticipation—the expectation of the coming of the Hidden Imam. 69
It appears that this doctrine was not unique, but is an essential Shiite
tenet ( Entezar ), which was given prominence by the Hojjatiyeh prior to
the Islamic Revolution. Khomeini, like all Shiites, was also “expecting”
( Entezar ) but, being a Usuli who believed Islam to be an all-encompassing
civilization, he was an activist, striving to hasten the return of the imam by
conducting a proper Islamic society where clerics received their due respect
and ran all aspects of life, including politics.
In contrast the Hojjatiyeh did not see politics as the essence of all things
but as a secular matter from which the clergy, especially the senior clergy,
should keep a distance and all members of the Hojjatiyeh took an oath not
to get involved in politics. Perhaps this clause was forced on them by the
shah’s regime; nevertheless it was deeply ingrained within the Hojjatiyeh’s
way of life and ideology, as firmly set out by its founder—Halabi.
The Hojjatiyeh’s ideology, despite their opposition to philosophy and
mysticism (which contradicts Halabi’s dream regarding his mission to
fight the Baha’is), was also a dialectical one with a thesis, an antithesis,
and so forth. 70 Halabi employed this method to create a linear idea within
which there are seemingly no discussions or contradictions; thus Halabi
accepted God’s words “as is” without investigating any further. For him,
total belief in God’s words was the cornerstone of Shiite Islam and any
question was an undermining of belief.
For him the existence of cosmic realities alongside human existence
was a fact inexplicable by belief and the investigation of cosmic procedures
would not alter them because man cannot participate in God’s inexpli-
cable deeds. Halabi postulated that the world should function as it was
created by God and man should conduct himself in accordance with reli-
gion’s spiritual standards. What then, according to this ideology, is man’s
responsibility for social development? Is he a part of society but only partly
responsible for society—if at all?
All this debate led them to the conclusion that members of the Hojjatiyeh
should not wish to take on any social responsibility, through politics or
otherwise. Thus they apparently did not see themselves as parts of society
but as individuals whose sole purpose was the pursuit of personal purity.
Opponents of the society deduced from this that the Hojjatiyeh advocated

The Hojjatiyeh Society
corruption and social injustice as a way to hasten the return of the Mahdi,
the future reformer of a corrupted world and introducer of Shiite order
into the world. To Khomeini and his adherents this personal attitude
was anathema since they maintained that the individual cannot interpret
religion correctly but requires the guidance of the clerics in his everyday
personal and social life. According to them, society (or the regime repre-
senting society) is corrupted and cruel toward the weak. The Hojjatiyeh
did not see themselves as responsible for society’s defects and refused to act
to correct them, believing this to be the Mahdi’s task, since no cleric, great
as he may be, could accomplish this. 71
We therefore conclude that the open confrontation between the two
schools of thought, Halabi’s and Khomeini’s, was fundamental. According
to Khomeini their avoidance of social participation led the Hojjatiyeh away
from the necessity for social rectification and, even more, excluded them
from certain basic Islamic tenets stated in the Quran and the Hadith.
Khomeini’s adherents reminded the Hojjatiyeh of their opposition to com-
bative jihad, seen by the latter as a spiritual dialectical ideal and as a path to
one’s individual intellectual progress (the “pure” meaning of the term)—as
something that did not endanger the innocent.
From the Hojjatiyeh’s point of view, any armed struggle, not excluding
the struggle against the shah’s regime, was superfluous and, in reality, not
all of Khomeini’s adherents took part in the armed struggle but took con-
trol of the government organs only after the revolution. The Hojjatiyeh,
on the other hand, infiltrated these organs, including the violent ones such
as the police and the revolutionary guards, and were very active in the
eight-year-war against Iraq. The true meaning of “jihad,” according to
Khomeini, however, was the encouragement of society and each individual
within it to act externally so as to force Islam upon the non-Shiite Islamic
world and to broaden its boundaries.
The Hojjatiyeh’s perception of jihad was derived from their under-
standing of the true meaning of the expectation of the Mahdi, and the
religions, social, private, and collective consequences of his future com-
ing. The jihad, from their point of view, but from Shi’a’s point of view as
well, was that it is a religious decree that obliges the individual and the
community to accept a true Shiite principle, namely, the passive expecta-
tion of the Mahdi and the necessity to fight one’s individual desires (see
extensive details in  chapter one ). Khomeini, on the other hand, broadened
the meaning of “jihad” to include martyrdom and a struggle to the death
for the Islamic state and ideal represented by his regime. The Hojjatiyeh
excluded all verses and content dealing with jihad or martyrdom from
their writings and, as far as they were concerned, nothing was worth dying
for, certainly not someone who represented both an opposite perception of

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
messianism, and the character of the Islamic state to be led by the Mahdi
himself or his envoys—the clerics. 72
After the success of the Islamic Revolution, the Hojjatiyeh tried to iso-
late themselves and to find a pragmatic solution that would allow them
to continue their struggle for the idea of separation of religion and state.
Therefore, they started to oppose Khomeini’s ideas (mainly the  Velayat-i
Faqih ) and Khomeini, on his part, responded by trying to neutralize the
Hojjatiyeh’s “poisonous ideologies” by giving speeches that exposed their
diverting actions. Khomeini’s speeches caused many Hojjatiyeh veterans
and experienced followers to renounce their Hojjatiyeh beliefs despite the
secrecy of the Hojjatiyeh. This was probably a maneuver to allow them
to continue their activities and, today, some are again claiming that the
Hojjatiyeh has restarted their activities and those interpolations of their
thoughts and ideas are being published in books but with different
titles. 73
The ancient struggle between Sunnah and Shi’a also appears in the
Hojjatiyeh ideology notwithstanding the guarded distance it has kept
from the Sunnah, and Khomeini’s adherents have not hesitated to blame
them for this connection too, as if the Hojjatiyeh had not emerged from a
Shiite society that regarded the Sunnah as the source of all its troubles. The
hypocrisy of Khomeini’s adherents probably derived not so much from the
historical Sunnah-Shiite struggle as from Khomeini’s postrevolutionary
policy and his intention to reestablish Iran’s relations with the Arab world
from which the secular shah had kept his distance.
Of course, Khomeini’s adherents falsely claimed that the Hojjatiyeh’s
classical interpretation struck at the unity of Islam, as if such unity had
ever existed, and that their political attitude and their refusal to hasten the
return of the Mahdi was actually an attempt to preserve the traditional
Sunnah-Shiite animosity. Khomeini’s supporters created an image of the
Hojjatiyeh as a radical sect that was representative of a traditional perni-
cious Shiite tendency to hate their Sunnah “brothers.” 74
The Hojjatiyeh presented their platform prior to the return of the
Mahdi in their written propaganda. Among other things in their set of
rules, published before the revolution, it is stated that:
Scientific activities and study are for the public welfare, our vision is to
educate the public for a higher knowledge of the Shiite  Jafari Islam, to
nurture the talents of the orthodox people, and to improve the material
and spiritual paths of the public. All this until the return of his highness
“The Imam of our Generation” . . . however, our plans will be implemented
according to the actual needs of our time, based on the protection of the
general aims . . . spreading Islamic and  Jafari Madhab [propaganda] and
protection of these with respect to the present circumstances. 75

The Hojjatiyeh Society
In certain aspects the Hojjatiyeh ideology represents an extreme and
apocalyptic form of Shiite Islam and they have been accused of believ-
ing in the “chaos [that] must precede the return of the redeemer of the
world [the Mahdi].” Therefore, or so it has been claimed, after the revolu-
tion, many Hojjatiyeh members joined the revolutionary committees and
guards and took part in the most violent and bloody activities. 76 We should
place doubt in this claim since we know that the Hojjatiyeh have declared
that they are against violence and anti-jihadists.
In the inner circles of the Hojjatiyeh we find that many of the society’s
leaders never married but none of them was a mullah or wore religious
garb (except for Halabi who wore a turban) and they were nicknamed the
“Soldiers of the Imam Zaman (the generation).” 77 Their avoidance of reli-
gious garb had two reasons: first, most of them were not clerics, although
they were well-versed in the Shi’a as well as the Baha’i sources; second,
being dressed as civilians made it easier for them to infiltrate the Baha’i
religious centers and disrupt their worship. In addition to the Baha’is the
Hojjatiyeh fought the Sunnah and the communists (the Tudeh party) who
claimed to have an atheistic agenda, which was as much an anathema to
them as Baha’ism.
In order to achieve its goals the society had to create several theoretical
and practical organs, all undercover because, although this was not ille-
gal, it was not altogether legal. During the 1960s and 1970s the Pahlavi
regime was aware of the society’s existence and activities but since it was
not attacking the regime (and later would even cooperate with it) it was
treated leniently. During the 1960s the society sent its members and sup-
porters into the universities, mainly to learn management, 78 and, although
they were very traditional ideologically, the Hojjatiyeh took advantage
of the most modern methods and, in their classrooms, tables and chairs
replaced the traditional carpets. Its activists adopted Western garb and
haircuts so as not to attract attention especially among the Baha’is, 79 and
Isfahani and Halabi’s visions were translated into action by some of their
committees.
The Hojjatiyeh was an extensive, complicated, and experienced society
and this was only natural after having had almost 30 years of organiza-
tional experience, mainly in activities directed against the Baha’is, and
it was the methods of opposition used by the society that ensured that
they would gain many advantages over this “espionage cult” (the Baha’is)
and the  taghot  80 government. Opposition to them, however, required that
they be a closed, coherent, and complicated society and the presence of
elements of the SAVAK, which had organizational and intelligence experi-
ence, in the Hojjatiyeh provided the society with a strong organizational
advantage.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
The Functioning of the Hojjatiyeh
Inner World
The Hojjatiyeh (which were initially called the  Hezb-i Qaedin ) had various
committees, called  Comiteh or  Guru , such as those for teaching ( Tadris ),
espionage and research ( Jasusy va Tahqiq ), writing ( Negaresh ), guidance
( Ershad ), conferences, foreign networks, and public debates. 81
The  Guru-ye Tadris (The Teaching Committee)
This committee had the duty to recruit young, inexperienced, active people
or students and give them organizational training. The immediate source
was the schools where the movement’s agents, particularly its instructors
and teachers, looked for intelligent students. Their first goal was to develop
friendly relationships with local figures in order to entice them into their
society. The movement preferred not to take lazy and slow-witted students
since, to maximize efficiency, they needed a young, smart force to form a
strong framework, which would enable the movement to train them while
they were completing their own classical studies.
The movement’s mentors were told to use false titles such as “doctor”
and “engineer,” probably to give the movement a prestigious appearance.
The second reason for using these false titles was to enable the mentors and
the movement rank-and-file to hide behind them and not expose their own
private names or positions within the movement. This particular action of
hiding their names by using false titles mainly took place at the time when
there was opposition to the shah’s anticlerical policies, 82 probably, during
the mid-1950s and early 1960s.
The Hojjatiyeh preferred to recruit wealthy and well-connected stu-
dents such as the sons of rich and famous families, and police and official
figures in order to use their influence as connections when necessary. In
the future, these relationships would help the members occupy important
positions in government offices. The movement used to act carefully in
order not to draw the attention of the government, police, and the secret
service when recruiting and absorbing these young people. In any case
these relationships helped the movement to solve problems that arose by
using the influence and connections of these high-ranking families.
The  Guru-ye Tadris had three levels: elementary ( Payeh ), particular
( Vizheh ), and advanced-excellent ( A’ly ).
1.  Payeh (elementary). The time spent on the elementary level was in
most cases about 18 months, 7–8 months of which were devoted to

The Hojjatiyeh Society
learning about the creeds such as  Tawhid (unity of God),  Nabovat
(the prophecy of Muhammad), and receiving a brief introduction to
“Babiyat” (Babism) and “Bahayat” (Baha’ism). The students would
study the  Usul-e Eteqadat (principles of faith) by way of frontal lec-
tures or using tape-cassettes provided by the movement, which were
predominantly the speeches of Sheik Halabi, the leader of the move-
ment himself. The duty of the students in these lectures was to take
notes. The syllabi of the movement for this stage contained books
such as  Afaridegar (the creator) and the  Afaride (the creation), both
by Dr. Mohammad Sadeqi, and  Esbat-i Vojud-i Khoda be-Kalame
Chehel-i tan az Daneshmandan-i Jahan (proof of the existence of God
by the forty greatest world scientists) by John Cloor Monsema.
The criteria for proof in the realm of  Usul-e Eteqadat and  Tawhid
were dominantly based on the methods of  Mutekalemin (theolo-
gians— Ilm al-Kalam ) and not of the  Hukuma (wise men). This was
mainly because of the movement’s antagonism toward the  Hukuma
and philosophers in general. This policy was guided by Sheikh
Halabi who said “Do not listen to them, neither  Hekmat nor philoso-
phy. Neither  Erfan (Gnosis), nor  Tasavof (Mysticism) and follow the
Fuqaha (Jurists) and [the]  Mohadethin ( Hadith tellers).” According
to the view held by Halabi and other mujtaheds,  Erfan ,  Hekmat ,
and philosophy were against  Fiqh (jurisprudence) and the Hadith.
The main purpose of the  Usul-e Eteqadat was to teach the students
debating skills when confronting believers in the Baha’i faith. These
skills helped the students to infiltrate the Baha’i centers after they
had joined the espionage section of the movement, but this could
only be done when they had sufficient familiarity with the style of
the dissident critics on  Tawhid and were able to deny  Tawhid .
2.  Vizheh (particular). On this advanced and massive level the  Massai’l
taught Baha’i principles and theories at a high level that integrated
practical work. This level contained learning of the Arabic language,
Ahkam (provisions, judgments), critical approaches to Marxism, and
the study of recommended books and rhetoric. Among the afore-
mentioned studies the movement invested a lot of time in the teach-
ing of the English language so that its members would be able to
study the literature and articles published by Baha’i scholars since
English was the Baha’i’s global language. Along with English they
taught Arabic and this enabled the members to deal with the Arabic
texts of the Baha’is.
The movement developed a very strict schedule for this level, which
helped them to quickly teach materials such as: Quranic science—one
hour; the practice and study of Quranic science at home—90 minutes;

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
lessons about  A’qaed (ideas and thoughts)—one hour, and its prac-
tice at home one hour as well; the practice of presentation—15 min-
utes and another hour at home; basic Arabic—30 minutes and one
hour at home;  Ahkam from the textbook of Mr. Khouei—30 min-
utes and at home 30 minutes (as homework);  Akhlaq (morality)—
around 30 minutes; critical approaches to Marxism—30 minutes;
prayer and recess—60 minutes. This totaled a steady 6–7 hours per
day and sometimes continued from 5 or 6 in the evening to mid-
night in addition to the same amount of hours for homework. This
was exactly like the method used by other political parties to fill
up their members’ free time in order to prevent them from finding
opportunities to study other subjects.
3.  A’ly (advanced-excellent). In this particular group, students and
members were initially tested on the previous two levels in order to
be selected for training on this prestigious level. This group was the
human reservoir of the movement’s cadres and was known as the
Naqd-e-Iqan 83 group after a criticism written by Sheikh Halabi on
Bahullah’s  Iqan , which used the name of  Naqd-e Iqan. 84
The movement reserved the right to dismiss any students on any level who
did not accept and agree with the movement’s methods and ideas. 85
The  Jasusy va Tahqiq Committee (The Espionage and
Research Committee)
This committee was divided into three subgroups: research or espionage of
type one, type two, and type three.
1.  The type one researcher had to join the Baha’i religion and attend
the Baha’i center, which held meetings and talk with the candi-
dates. In this way he could become a part of the Baha’i faith and
community.
2.  The second type was more complicated and intricate as it contained
two subgroups of five–six people who did not know each other.
These individuals (members of both groups) were only accountable
to the head of the group and the members used only fake names in
order not to reveal who they were and what their real names were.
The “spies” went to the Baha’i people and announced that they were
Baha’i born and that their parents were Baha’i preachers in other
countries. Their statements were documented and backed up with
fake identity cards, birth certificate, addresses, and so on.

The Hojjatiyeh Society
3.  The third type was believed to be a high-level group that performed
espionage and infiltration. It is said that the members of this group
behaved and conducted themselves like born Baha’is, and, ostensibly,
they were no longer agents of the movement in the Baha’i organiza-
tions but vigorously defended themselves against the movement. For
example, whenever Baha’i friends wanted to come to their homes
for the party, they would find all the walls and doors covered with
slogans like  “Ya Bahullah bahi” and  “Asalam-u-a’liak ya Bahaullah”
and pictures and portraits of the Baha’is’ religious leaders. 86
The  Negaresh Committee (The Writing Committee)
The third committee was the  Negaresh or writing committee (the author-
ship group) and they had the duty to write papers about the Mahdi—the
Hidden Imam—and manifestos rejecting the Baha’i religion. These papers
and manifestos were actually repetitions of previous old issues and added
nothing new suited to the present time nor paid any attention to the other
more important Islamic principles.
The  Ershad Committee (The Guidance Committee)
The guidance committee was divided into two parts: (i) surveillance and
maintenance; and (ii) discussion and debate.
The Surveillance and Maintenance Section
This group’s duty was to observe and follow the Baha’i people using cars and
motorbikes. It is said that this group was created because some of the instruc-
tors who were affected by Islamic and revolutionary ideas were expressing
themselves about political issues that were adverse to the aims of the move-
ment; so this group was created in order to control them. They gathered the
instructors from the other provinces in a special center and presented them
with specific ideological instructions. Sometimes they went to their classes
unexpectedly and, by examining and evaluating the students, found out
about the situation of the teachers and the topics they were covering.
The Discussion and Debating Section
This group was taught methods of debate and discussion and its members
were provided with booklets and pamphlets. They were taught two meth-
ods of discussion: (i) the argument thwarting method and (ii) the provision

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
of solutions methods. The argument thwarting method was used to try and
prevail over rivals by using their own reasoning, ideas, and beliefs while
the provision of solutions method was the one in which they tried to con-
fute the thinking mistakes and errors of their rival and, by using their own
reasoning, tried to refute the rival’s ideas. The group first had to practice
thwarting argument and then “provide solutions.” The other method they
recommended was starting with nondiscussion methods to gain the atten-
tion of the Baha’i novice 87 and this was considered to be more suitable.
The  Artebat ba Kharej Committee (The Committee for
Foreign Networks and Public Debates)
The fifth committee was the  Artebat ba Kharej committee, which was
responsible for “communication outside of Iran” and was called the
Ministry of the Anjoman. It had relations with countries such as Holland,
United States, United Kingdom, Austria, Australia, and other countries
and even established branches in these countries for activities.
The  Conference-ha Committee (The
Conferences Committee)
The sixth committee was the  Conference-ha committee but nothing
special can be said about this group, which we can assume was respon-
sible for arranging conferences so they could present their own agenda
and religious point of view. This group was active till after the Islamic
Revolution and, like the others, was disbanded when the movement went
underground. 88
Aside from the training and propaganda units and sections, the
Hojjatiyeh had libraries and archives as well. The most talented of its activ-
ists, the “ Mobarez ,” were sent to the discussions and debating teams but
they also had spokesmen ( sokharenan ), mentors ( modares ), and intelligence
operatives ( mohaqeq ), all of whom attended weekly meetings. 89
The Hojjatiyeh Secrecy and
Intelligence Methods
The reasons used by the members of the Hojjatiyeh for dealing with others
were always based on their interorganizational training. For instance, they

The Hojjatiyeh Society
were taught that “if someone outside of the Anjoman asks you, [if] you are
the people of Anjoman, you [must] deny it vigorously and strongly.” As a
result the members of the Hojjatiyeh could remain unidentified because of
these deceptive methods and their denials. 90
Other members of the clergy, although not members of the Hojjatiyeh,
also took part in the struggle against Baha’ism and, in 1955, pushed the
Zahedi military government into taking action against the heretical sect.
The Ulama, sure of their power, and knowing that the regime was atten-
tive to their wishes, decided to take advantage of the opportunity to push
for changes that conformed to their religious aspirations. A hundred years
earlier, when the clergy pressed the regime to act against the anti-Shiite
messianic movements (such as Babism and Baha’ism), they succeeded in
convincing the Qajari regime to do so, and now they were determined
to succeed again. Then, during the mid-nineteenth century, they con-
vinced the regime that these sects constituted a danger both to the regime
and the Shiite clergy and laity. They were right concerning Babism since
the Bab had declared in the  Bayan his intention of replacing the ruling
dynasty with a Babi rule. On the other hand, the Baha’is who were inter-
nationalists after all did not wish to establish a kingdom of their own,
and so the present regime did not have this reason to act against them.
The clerics, threatened by the many conversions to Baha’ism and by the
growing political and economic influence of the Baha’is, argued that the
Baha’i ideology was an imperialist plot aimed at serving the interests of
the west whose sole intention was the destruction of Islam, particularly
its Shiite version.
On May 9, 1955, the Iranian press reported on the destruction of the
Baha’i temple by the army in Tehran and, on May 17, the same thing
happened in Shiraz. Among those leading the attack were the chief of
staff Batmanjlidich and the Tehran military governor, Bakhtiar, but the
Ayatollah Bihbahani also praised the regime for its action. The shah’s
personal doctor, Abdul Karim Ayadi, who was a Baha’i, was asked to
leave the country and move to Italy where he spent nine month and
70 Baha’i officers were forced to resign from the army. The Baha’is
reacted by pulling their funds out of the bazaar, which caused several
bankruptcies. 91
The Ayatollah Bihbahani, a grand ayatollah himself, sent a telegram
to the leading  marja’ of the time, the Ayatollah Borujerdi, congratulat-
ing him on the destruction of the Baha’i center in Tehran. Borujerdi,
anticommunist as well as anti-Baha’i, also involved Khomeini in the
persecution by sending him to persuade Shah Muhammad Reza to sup-
press the Baha’i as his father had. 92 In his response Borujerdi wrote:
“The Baha’i have been systematically trying in the last hundred years

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
to destroy Islam,” and expressed his regret about the still “lenient” treat-
ment of them by the regime, which, he suggested might perhaps be even
supporting them.
Following the destruction of the Baha’i center in Tehran, these two aya-
tollahs were received together by the shah who refused to commit himself
to further persecution of the Baha’is but tried to reach an understanding
regarding the Baha’i “plot” against the Ulama and his regime. This was
lip service and the shah, knowing that the situation was temporary and
understanding the sensitive politics and the ayatollahs’ attempt to take
advantage of it, refused to commit himself to action and placated the pair
with words.
The Iranian Parliament ( Majlis ), most of whose members were con-
trolled by the shah and his proxy General Zahedi, introduced legislation
to prohibit Baha’ism and its kind since they were threats to the security
of the country. Anyone belonging to the sect was to be sentenced to
up to ten years in prison, their property was to be distributed among
institutes promoting Shiite Islam, and all government agencies were to
be cleansed of any Baha’i presence. 93 Needless to say this law was not
enforced.
Following the Islamic revolution in 1979 the new regime ordered
the persecution of the Baha’is. The Islamic constitution did not refer
to the minority and so the leaders of the revolution used the parliament
and government to turn on them. In September 1979 the Bab’s house
and the Baha’i temple in Iran were destroyed and in November 1979
Baha’i teachers were required to resign from their posts and return their
salaries to the state. 94 Many Baha’i leaders were executed or imprisoned,
many were forced to quit the universities, and others lost their property
or were forbidden to leave the country. 95 The persecution resumed in
July 1983 96 on the eve of the final rift between the Hojjatiyeh and the
ruling party and the end of the political existence of the society. Sensing
their end was approaching the Hojjatiyeh perhaps sought to finally set-
tle their accounts with the Baha’is. Others assume that the  Maktabis
were those who stirred up the animosity between the Hojjatiyeh and the
Baha’is thus forcing the government to suppress the political activity of
the former.
The persecutions of the Baha’i minority continued well into the
1980s but mainly targeted the Baha’i leadership. The regime justified
the bloodshed by declaring that “[o]nly peoples of the book are recog-
nized by the Quran as religious minorities.” Therefore whoever was not
Muslim, Christian, Zoroastrian, or Jewish was, by definition, pagan and
deserved to die. 97

The Hojjatiyeh Society
The Hojjatiyeh and the  SAVAK :
The Relationship between Kingship and
Those Who Believe in the Apocalypse
Iranian sources (books, blogs, etc.) that discuss the Hojjatiyeh 98 meticu-
lously tie the society and its activities to the SAVAK, the notorious secret
police of the Pahlavi regime. It makes sense that all these sources, whether
for or against the society, by the very mention of both organizations in
the same breath aimed to destroy any legitimacy the Hojjatiyeh may ever
have enjoyed with the people or the regime. This was the way the revolu-
tionary supporters of Khomeini treated all their rivals. The vilification of
other revolutionaries, considering that the Hojjatiyeh were not necessarily
such, urges us to inquire whether the society was really cooperating with
the shah or not, and what the reasons for this cooperation were. Such
an accusation, for instance, was considered to be an indelible stain upon
anybody who ever applied for an official or managerial job in Iran; thus
the degradation of the Hojjatiyeh by the “yes men” of the Islamic regime
makes sense because it made jobs available to their supporters.
Even among the many lies told about the Hojjatiyeh, however, we may
find some grains of truth, which were developed into fantasy and mythol-
ogy. Based on vague assumptions about the ties between the leaders of
the Hojjatiyeh and the old regime, a whole structure of false history was
built, which, due to the total control by the present regime of all the media
in Iran, is impossible to refute. However, we may pose a few questions
and point out a number of inconsistencies. It has been asserted that the
Hojjatiyeh Society was established in 1953 by the SAVAK but the latter
was only established in 1957. Then it was alleged that the society cooper-
ated with the SAVAK, but, in reality, any organization that did not oppose
the regime was apparently considered to be cooperating with the shah’s
regime. It seems, however, that the Hojjatiyeh, as mentioned earlier, did
not wish to change the existing regime and, worse, did not see Khomeini’s
Velayat-i Faqih as an ideal form of Islamic government.
The revolutionaries and all those who opposed the shah and his regime
viewed the Hojjatiyeh negatively, not least because of its contaminating
links to the SAVAK. According to their opponents the society’s public
activities (lectures and other gatherings) were intended to collect infor-
mation about opponents of the regime, which was duly passed on to the
SAVAK, and all this was done under the guise of the struggle against the
Baha’is.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
It is believed that this good relationship with the SAVAK caused the
Hojjatiyeh to become an apolitical group. Sheikh Mahmoud Halabi alleged
that he used to inform the SAVAK about their (the Hojjatiyeh’s) own
methods of activities in their meetings and speeches all over the country.
According to Hojjatiyeh adherents, this relationship “originated from the
nature of member’s activities which was fighting with the Baha’is.” Since
the Hojjatiyeh were afraid that the regime would stop their activities, they
felt that they needed to provide some guarantees to the government, and
so, before holding a meeting, they would inform the SAVAK about it.
According to some SAVAK documents, which show that Halabi corre-
sponded with the SAVAK, Halabi had a training program and every Friday
would train a few youths in his house in how to challenge the Baha’is.
In one of this letters, Halabi announced his “readiness to give all kinds
of information regarding the  Anjoman activities to the security societies.”
The content of some of the documents does show the satisfaction of both
sides but it would be hard to conclude that the Hojjatiyeh were dependent
on the government. On the other hand, it is a fact that the continuity of
their cultural lives and activities were among their main concerns in mat-
ters regarding their relationship with the government.
After Khomeini’s arrest in 1963, some members of the clergy from
Iranian cities came to Tehran to protest against the shah’s regime. At this
time Sheik Halabi stated that they were at a crossroads and faced a great
dilemma. On the one hand, they had to follow the rules of the Sharia and
maintain solidarity with the clergy while on the other, they still had to
carry on the struggle against the Baha’is who controlled the SAVAK and,
with the excuse that they were interfering in political matters, were con-
stantly trying to stop their adulation and defense of the twelfth imam.
Some of the documents stressed that the shah had given orders that
“the continuation of Anjoman [Hojjatiyeh] activities had to depend on
the promise of the Ayatollah Khansari that Anjoman activities must only
involve religious affairs.” Ostensibly, after his promise was given, all limita-
tions on the continuation of the society’s activities were removed.
Among the available documents regarding the Hojjatiyeh’s activities,
there is only one document that deals with the support given to groups
that opposed the shah’s regime. This document declared that there was a
radical religious group (probably the Hojjatiyeh) and some opponents who,
under the cover of struggling against the Baha’is, were holding political
meetings and trying to provoke radical elements against the government
and encouraging sabotage. This letter suggested that the head of SAVAK
should recognize that there were elements trying to provoke people against
the government and should encourage “penetration into their meet-
ings,” “recognizing the clergies and religious elements who expedite these

The Hojjatiyeh Society
provocations,” “find out about expansion of their penetration and arrest
their elements in charge of acting against national interest,” and promote
the “prosecution and arresting of the people who want to overthrow . . . the
government and who are trying to recruit people for the sabotage opera-
tion” as well as “arresting their people even though there is not any evi-
dence for their guilt and deliver them to the social security commission in
order to expedite their exile.”
Some of the documents show that at the end of the shah’s reign, some
of the Hojjatiyeh’s members had developed a good relationship with the
revolutionary elements of Khomeini and tried to find an opportunity to
carry out revolutionary acts and fight against the government, but that
the “heads of Anjoman” were strictly against such an approach and, as
has been said, the “Anjoman does not allow its member to take part in
political activities.” As a result some members who had relationships with
the revolutionary groups split from the Anjoman and resigned with most
of them joining the developing Revolutionary Guards and Revolutionary
committees. 99
Some of the accusations against the Hojjatiyeh, such as the existence of
good relations between its leader Halabi and the SAVAK, come from the
SAVAK’s files, which contain no information concerning meetings with
the Baha’i that the Hojjatiyeh allegedly passed on to the security organ.
Halabi’s aim, apparently, was to curb the influence of the Baha’i propa-
ganda and literature and to establish a “solid Islamic front of philosophical,
scientific, literary and moral values” to combat its danger to Islam.
The reports indicate that close cooperation existed between the two
organizations and that the Hojjatiyeh apparently believed that the link
would help with their survival and activities. In other words, in order to
survive, the society was ready to cooperate with the regime. The SAVAK,
for its part, was impressed that the Hojjatiyeh were more concerned with
other religious groups wishing to enter politics than with the Baha’is while
the shah, for his part, encouraged both their “anti-revolutionary,” and
“civil religious” activities. It is difficult to conclude from the documents
whether the Hojjatiyeh acted on its own initiative when it reported to the
SAVAK or was guided by the security organization. In any case, its oppo-
nents interpret these links as sure proof of cooperation.
Concerning their battle with the Baha’is, we may deduce from the
SAVAK’s documents that the Hojjatiyeh succeeded in mapping out the
Baha’i threat and in planning proper ways to find them. First of all they
“diagnosed” the danger and harmful provocation, then the targets of the
Baha’is, and so on and afterward the society developed its combat plans
against the “enemy.” 100 Some of the SAVAK reports indicate that the regime
saw the Hojjatiyeh as an apolitical organ that was loyal to the shah. 101

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
The society maintained good relations with the secret police of the shah
and was even “authorized” by the state to act against the Baha’is since the
state apparently aimed at creating splits and quarrels among the different
religious sects, thus weakening them. At a certain stage Halabi himself
opposed Khomeini and the revolutionary movement apparently as a result
of the close cooperation that existed between the Hojjatiyeh and the shah
but, after the Islamic Revolution, some claimed that the Hojjatiyeh tried
to destroy evidence of their cooperation with the shah as accomplices of
the SAVAK.
From the SAVAK reports we learn that the Hojjatiyeh provided detailed
reports regarding the Baha’i threat to the peace and integrity of Iran, and
urged the state to combat the Baha’i “affliction.” They were adept at using
“security” and “intelligence” ingredients to attract the attention of the
SAVAK and other security organs to the Baha’i danger. 102
The SAVAK repaid the Hojjatiyeh and its leaders for the services ren-
dered to the regime by protecting Halabi, whom it viewed as a “defender of
Islam” who was trying to bring the Baha’is back to the fold. By doing this
the SAVAK believed it was helping to guide Islam onto its true path thus
preventing “hostile” forces (mainly the Baha’is and other revolutionary
Islamists) from damaging the legitimacy of the shah’s regime. 103
Another assumption is that the shah employed the Hojjatiyeh to indi-
rectly combat the revolutionary clergy (such as the Ayatollah Khomeini)
and the communists. 104 Historically this assumption concerning the
group is problematic since the  Velayat-i Faqih was only developed in the
1970s. Indeed Khomeini had been objecting to the regime since 1963 with
the beginning of the shah’s White Revolution that included the agrar-
ian reform, which the Hojjatiyeh objected to as well because of its close
relations with the bazaar merchants and the landowners. The Hojjatiyeh’s
objection to the  Velayat-i Faqih dates only from the beginning of the 1970s
when it was published by Khomeini, but, at this stage, the Hojjatiyeh were
not serving the interests of the shah and were certainly not acting against
Khomeini, who was in Iraq at the time, or against his supporters in Iran.
It was only after the revolution that the society cooperated with the shah’s
regime and presented itself as a nonprofit, apolitical organ. 105
Contrary to claims by opponents of the Hojjatiyeh, there were other
organizations, religious and nonreligious, that also cooperated with the
SAVAK to either advance their interests or under compulsion. Within the
SAVAK the “Ulama section” was in charge of relations with the Hojjatiyeh,
which issued directives according to which the Hojjatiyeh was ordered to
humiliate intellectuals and other opponents of the regime in their ser-
mons. Apparently they identified underground operatives and opposition
clergy in the mosques and delivered their names to the SAVAK (not unlike

The Hojjatiyeh Society
Saddam Hussein who planted informers in the mosques for the same rea-
son). Another person they attacked was Ali Shariati, a thinker and ideolo-
gist who promoted nationalistic and antiroyal ideas. 106
In conclusion, at the beginning the Hojjatiyeh was limited by the
SAVAK and some of its members were even arrested but later on, after
being pressured to become acquainted with the Baha’i danger, these pris-
oners were released. Although the SAVAK itself was also active against the
Baha’i and encouraged the Hojjatiyeh to be like them, it was actually more
of a balancing power supervising both. 107
The Hojjatiyeh and the Belief in Dreams
Baqi in his book says that “belief in dreams was among the subjects which
the Hojjatiyeh used for preserving the organization and this helped them
face many difficult questions like; ‘Why you are opposing the Imam
Khomeini?’ or ‘Why do you believe that politics is distinct and divided
from religion?’” According to him, “[T]he Hojjatiyeh used to quote dreams
from someone who dreamt that the 12th Imam accepted Mr. Halabi or
Anjoman as his followers.” One of the dream/stories describes how one of
the brothers who was separated from the Hojjatiyeh before the revolution
said that it seems that they spent no time awake but always go to sleep to
see the Imam Zaman in order to receive his revelations.
Baqi said that the “Dreams Project” was so urgent and essential to the
Hojjatiyeh that in the years 1971–1972 the movement’s members were dis-
patched from Tehran to the provinces to quote the dreams and record
the narratives on audio tapes. One of these famous dreams was about a
woman who was visited by the twelfth imam who put several coins into her
hands so that she could give it to the Hajj pilgrims. That story continues
and says that the imam told her: “I will see you there during your visiting
Hajj.” The woman, however, forgot about her dream until she went to
Makah where she wore the clothes she had worn during the first visit of
the imam. In short the story says that in Makah the imam visited her again
and reminded her about the dream. The woman checked her pockets and
found the coins the imam had put there. Then the imam made an appoint-
ment with her in Madina where he brought her to the market and bought
her a dress and then they went to Baqi cemetery and found the honored
grave of Zahra. At the end of the meeting, the imam said to her: “Say hello
to your son (who was a military officer) for me and tell him that he is one
of my followers and tell him to respect the organization (the Hojjatiyeh)
which you are member in, and advise the others to do the same.”

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Baqi said that not all took these dreams seriously and had their doubts
about them. According to him the Ayatollah Madani was among those
ayatollahs who tried to investigate these dreams and who asked for the
audio tapes in order to disprove the phenomenon. After he refuted these
dreams, it is said that the Hojjatiyeh members started to slur his name
instead of answering his questions. These actions allowed the Ayatollah
Madani to prohibit the Hojjatiyeh celebrations in Hamedan in the middle
of Shaaban (the birthday of the twelfth imam).
Baqi accused the Hojjatiyeh of using these dreams as a method “in
order to continue to recruit people and sometimes to provide proof of the
Imam’s existence and of soliciting this kind of story which was an abuse of
people’s sentiments and a pretense that the 12th Imam steadily approved
of Anjoman.”
Baqi believed that the Hojjatiyeh had adopted the Baha’is method of
using dreams. According to him,
[The] Baha’is also do not have a scientific, philosophic and logical infra-
structure and it is, in fact, an ideology full of fabrication[s] and lying . . . its
followers are also unable to find stability in this cult . . . therefore the Baha’is
try to arouse the sentiments of people through the narration of dreams
depicting the Baha’s divinity and the narration of heroic stories in an
attempt to keep hold of its followers.
Baqi goes on to say that
also if someone has a disease or has died the Baha’i’s try to assume that he has
died because he has been infected with the faith of “Jamal-i Mubarak” . . . “and
this is not unlike the methods of Anjoman [The Hojjatiyeh] who say that,
when a bad thing has happened to one of its opponents, that it happened
because he/she denied the 12th Imam (in fact Anjoman).” 108

Part III
Postrevolution Era and
the Hojjatiyeh as a
Counterrevolutionary Movement

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 5
Danger Ahead: Challenging
Khomeini
The Ideological and Theological Differences
between Khomeini, the Revolutionary Council,
and the Hojjatiyeh’s Mojtaheds
When Khomeini suggested his  Velayat-i Faqih (the rule of the clergy), he
wasn’t really familiar with the practice of this methodology and only had
one obvious goal—the ousting of the shah and his monarchy. Khomeini
and his Revolutionary Council, who established themselves in France in
late 1978, unanimously declared that Iran under their rule would establish
a new regime based on a new constitution and a codex of laws derived
from the Quran and Shari’a including the interpretations of Khomeini and
other Shi’i mujtaheds.
This kind of regime, as other well-known Ulama and mujtaheds saw
it, would be led by one big party in a multiparty system that would pro-
vide the new and old political parties with an opportunity to share in the
leadership of the Iranian people and would include the complex vision of
the  Velayat-i Faqih . But Khomeini had another vision. According to his
political point of view based on the Shi’a only one party would lead the
people on behalf of the Shi’a and Islam. Khomeini’s own Revolutionary
Council was divided between radicals who praised the line of the imam
( Hatt-e Imam ) and Khomeini and others who thought that a rule accord-
ing to the  Velayat-i Faqih would enable the participation of other parties
in the rule as well. 1

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Khomeini’s main opponent was the Ayatollah Shariatmadari who rep-
resented the moderate line inside the Shi’i mujtaheds in Iran and was a
great opponent of Khomeini’s  Velayat-i Faqih . Shariatmadari’s interpre-
tation of the Shi’a was different from Khomeini’s, except in regard to
the concept that there was only  marja’ taqlid and one  rahbar (guide) for
the people. In his political worldview, however, Shariatmadari opposed
clerical rule and advocated the restoration of the 1906 constitution,
which would give the clergy a supervisory role but would leave the shah
in his place. In response to Khomeini’s supporters who established the
Islamic Republican Party (IRP) in April 1979, Shariatmadari’s followers
established a new party named the “Islamic People’s Republican Party”
(IPRP). 2 Without siding with the Hojjatiyeh, Shariatmadari’s thoughts
on politics were similar to the Hojjatiyeh’s political point of view, regard-
less of his desire to return to the 1906 constitution, because he wished to
see the clerics out of politics.
Moreover Ayatollah Shariatmadari, who was opposed to the  Velayat-i
Faqih as Khomeini interpreted it, implicitly praised the Hojjatiyeh ideol-
ogy but never sided with them clearly. Shariatmadari described the present
need for the  Velayat-i Faqih as something “temporary and important only
when the present ruler cannot  rule for various reasons.” In such times, “the
Vali takes temporary control in hand aside (from) his religious activities
when possible.” Accordingly the role of the Vali was to be more religious
than political. 3
Khomeini’s followers, who were reluctant to agree with this move,
passionately attacked Shariatmadari as someone who was weakening the
strength of the revolution. It should be mentioned that, at this time, the
new regime was being led by both Mehdi Bazargan, Khomeini’s appointee
as prime minister, and the Revolutionary Council together and that, at
this stage, they allowed freedom of speech, freedom of organization, and
freedom of political activity as long as the organizations and the speeches
made did not criticize the new concept led by Khomeini. This mainly
applied to the Revolutionary Council Committees and less to Bazargan’s
government. 4
The  Hezbollah (and later the Revolutionary Guards) and IRP followers
were involved in many clashes with the IPRP and these led to persecution
by Khomeini’s followers. At this stage there was no doubt that the IRP
(mid-1979) could not live peacefully with other competitors, especially
look-alike parties bearing names that were very similar to the IRP itself.
Khomeini wanted the revolution to maintain a full head of steam and
this could only be achieved by stressing his uniqueness and prestige as the
revolution’s guide ( rahbar ) and founder. No one else was to be permitted
to harvest his fruit.

Danger Ahead
Abul Hassan Bani-Sadr’s presidency was neither the ultimate nor desired
choice for Iran’s new revolution. His orientation with the liberal-democratic
wing, despite his closeness to Khomeini, did not help him to advance
his political views since there was a lack of political support from the
Revolutionary Council and inside the IRP itself. As a matter of fact, the
tension between Bani-Sadr, Iran’s first president, and the Revolutionary
Council, who were the de facto rulers of Iran, gave Khomeini and his fol-
lowers the opportunity to sharpen their criticism and use Bani-Sadr as a
foil for their own mistakes and goals.
In late 1979 the IPRP threatened Khomeini and declared that they
would take over Azerbaijan (probably as Peshvari had taken it over in
December 1945 just after World War II) but Khomeini was ambiguous
and dismissed Shariatmadari’s IPRP as a political party. Some leaders
of IPRP were executed and others were put in prison. This led to a deep
silence and the stripping of the title of  Marja’a Taqlid from Shariatmadari
but did not halt other criticisms of Khomeini and his political party—
the IRP.
Back to Life, Back to Reality
According to another point of view an old-new organization, the Hojjatiyeh,
came to life and awareness in response to the increasing power of the IRP.
This group was originally formed by Sheikh Mahmud Halabi in the 1950s
to fight Muhammad Reza Shah’s soft and liberal attitude toward the Baha’i
minority. An example of this was the shah’s appointment of a Baha’i (who
had converted to Islam), Mohammad Abbas Hoveida (who had been his
premier’s minister of the treasury), to be Iran’s longest serving prime minis-
ter. Besides being anti-Baha’i, this group finally, and unwillingly, adopted
the methods of the  Velayat-i Faqih concept—the approach that had led
Khomeini to force Sheikh Halabi to leave Tehran for Mashhad and which
had cut him off from his own political power base—the Hojjatiyeh. 5
The Islamic Revolution was in fact the result of Shiite ultraconservative
activity (as reflected by Khomeini who had led a revolution inside the Shi’a
itself) and antiroyalist forces who had combined their efforts to topple the
Pahlavi monarchy. Nevertheless events after the revolution revealed that
the implementation of Khomeini’s new theological concept— Velayat-i
Faqih— and, in fact, the process of the Islamization of political institutions
in the country as a whole was counteracted by extremist religious leaders
who, presumably, were supposed to stand with Khomeini. One of these
was the Sheikh Mahmoud Halabi, the leader of the Hojjatiyeh Society.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
According to Khomeini, only a senior religious leader—a theologian
( Marja’-i Taqlid, rahbar )—could lead the Shiite nation until the arrival of
the Mahdi; in other words, Khomeini would only be the “deputy” of the
Hidden Imam. In contrast Halabi argued that only the Hidden Imam—
the Mahdi himself—could be the legal ruler of the Shiite community and
any other leader would be illegal, and thus he adhered to the old Shiite
interpretation concerning the leadership of the community. Halabi even
said that he was receiving messages from the Hidden Imam, 6 which was
something he probably used to draw a very clear line between him and
Khomeini and, perhaps, to declare his religious superiority over Khomeini.
There seems to be two possible meanings to the following statements made
by Halabi: “I do not listen to Khomeini’s sayings and he is not as great
or important as the Hidden Imam”; and “I am a more prominent reli-
gious leader than Khomeini as I am the one who receives signals from the
Hidden Imam.” It is worthwhile mentioning that Halabi believed that the
leadership should not be in the hands of religious leaders especially not in
the way conceived and implemented by the Ayatollah Khomeini. 7
Halabi’s argument was inspired by the Shiite theological belief that the
Hidden Imam had not really disappeared but was living among human
beings and was revealing divine secrets to his supporters and followers and
especially to the religious leaders of the Shiite community. This same thing
was also said by the Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad when he
claimed that he too received messages from the Hidden Imam—and this
statement carries a double meaning as well.
It would be more precise to say that the Hojjatiyeh, in the first stage
after the Islamic Revolution, supported the constitutional changes and
that their leader Halabi was mostly concerned by the increasing number
of religious leaders who held high politically ranked positions after 1980.
He considered that in the Occultation of the Hidden Imam, it would be
illegal for religious leaders to be involved in the government since their role
was to fill the gap regarding community guidance and to take care of the
followers. He held that religious leaders should leave politics in the hands
of professionals who were not religious scholars since the rule by clerics was
illegal (only the Hidden Imam’s rule could be legal). 8
Halabi and his movement hoped that the Islamic Revolution followed
by a new constitution for the Islamic Republic would lead to the prohibi-
tion of the communists—the Tudeh party—and their activities and to the
expulsion of party members from the army and government institutions.
Many other Islamic militants hoped for the same thing but the Iranian
regime took other measures. Only in 1983, four years after the revolu-
tion and three years after the establishment of the republic, did the regime
start acting against the Tudeh party and their members and arrested many

Danger Ahead
communist party members who they expelled from the country. It was
then supposed that Khomeini was attentive to the Hojjatiyeh’s appeal and
was trying to please them by fulfilling their primary request to destroy the
Tudeh party. The Hojjatiyeh loathed the Tudeh for its communist-atheist
identity and thought that they, like the Baha’i, had no place in the cultural
or civic space of Iran and even less in the religious and political sphere of
the nation. 9
The Hojjatiyeh’s Theological
Approach to Khomeini
Generally all the terms mujtahed,  ijtihad ,  Marja’ ,  Marjia’t , and more are
rather new in the Shi’a. They were created by religious adherents to the
Usuli stream especially at the start of the Qajar dynasty (end of the eigh-
teenth century and beginning of the nineteenth). Religious scholars at this
time considered these terms not to be necessarily new but terms that had
been learnt from Shiite history and theology. The need for these terms and
the content that is derived from them originated from the religious leaders’
will to find theological solutions to the Occultation of the imam and to the
linkage of issues involving questions of religion and state. The rise of the
Ussuliya derived from an intense need to find meaning for the Imamiya
and the Shari’a based on the tools offered by the Ussuliya so that people
could study this material and put it into practice. At this stage, the Ussuliya
stream understood very clearly that the mujtaheds (ayatollahs—which is
also a new concept) who were the senior ranking religious leaders and reli-
gious commentators/interpreters in fact were supposed to act as (temporary)
substitutes for the imam. 10
Ayatollah Hajj Sheikh Murtaza Mutahhari Farimani (1920–1979), who
was a student of Khomeini and a university professor of Islamic philoso-
phy, divided the development of the question of  Velayat-i Faqih in Shi’a
into four periods:
874–1501: The period when Shi’a jurisprudence developed espe-
1.
cially in matters concerning the individual and his conduct inside
the community.
From 1501 till the Constitution Movement during the late nine-
2.
teenth century when Shi’a was recognized as Iran’s state religion
and the power of the clergy increased. In this period, the  fuqaha
took part in the social and political life of the country and during
this time the Ayatollah Muhaqqiq Karaki developed the notion of

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Velayat-i Faqih for the first time in the Shi’a religion. Mutahhari
also divided the development of  Velayat-i Faqih into periods starting
with Karaki who developed this notion from its beginning. Karaki
noticed that up till his time the  fuqaha had limited themselves to
cases of punishment and death ( hudud ) probably because they
considered the ruler as the one responsible for such cases. Karaki
explains that the Ulama, would have special responsibilities during
the occultation period and would be authorized to act as deputies
of the Imam in matters of community life. The  fuqaha would have
the power of enforcement not only in matters concerning the private
life of the individual but also in community affairs. According to
Karaki, such authorized Ulama would actually be appointed by the
imam to be his deputies ( nueb ). Mutahhari concluded that it was
not clear whether Karaki meant to create an Islamic state that would
be led by the  fuqaha . While the history of the theory of  Velayat-i
Faqih started with the Mujtahid Muhaqqiq Karaki (d. 1533) who
divided the Ulama’s responsibilities into three aspects—authority,
sovereignty, and legitimacy—the Ayatollah Mutahhari interpolated
the  Velayat-i Faqih of Karaki into issues of responsibility, obliga-
tions, and other aspects as follows:
a.  The relationship between the ruler and the ruled.
b.  The kind of Islamic rule that is necessary.
c.  The need for the enforcement of Islamic law (Shari’a).
d.  The necessity for the just  vali to be a  faqih .
e.  The role of the clergy in political affairs.
f.  The attitude toward secularism.
g.  The need to protect the Islamic Republic from secularism and
imperialism. 11
Mulla Ahmad Naraqi (d. 1832), a mujtahed who lived during
3.
the Qajari rule and followed in Karaki’s footsteps, expanded the
Velayat-i Faqih theory in his remarkable  Awaid al Ayam volume and
was the first to authorize the  fuqaha to manage the entire life spec-
trum of the community. He expanded even more what Karaki had
already expanded. In his book, Naraqi makes the first mention of
the political responsibility of the  fuqaha , but never gives details of
the theory and practice. The next figure in this evolutionary chain,
who dealt with the  Velayat-i Faqih , was Mohammad Hassan Najafi
who claimed that, up till Naraqi, there had not been any real and
deep discussion of the  faqih ’s responsibilities, and that its immediate
establishment would make them the imam’s  representatives or “his
deputyship .” Naraqi’s student and adherent, Sheikh Murtaza Ansari

Danger Ahead
(d. 1864), was the next in the chain to present a “critical view of his
teacher’s arguments.”
Starting from the Constitutional Revolution and the uprising of
4.
June 5, 1963, the  fuqaha had to deal with new political and social
matters and became more and more involved in political affairs that
had never been part of their original practice. During this period
there was a conflict between the traditionalists who were against
any change in the political and social structure and the modern-
ists who wanted to change and formulate the current situation and
to integrate the Shari’a into the constitution. The grand ayatollah
at this time was Naini who thought that the  fuqaha should also
have the authority to supervise the legislative body of the ruler and
to inspect the parliament’s activities and laws. Ayatollah Borujerdi,
who was against the jurisprudence arguments involving the  Velaya-i
Faqih , did, however, agree to the theological basis of this theory.
He claimed that religion was part of politics but never implemented
these concepts when he became a  Marja’ Taqlid and, in Khomeini’s
period, was the first person in Shi’a history to succeed in establish-
ing an Islamic government. In fact Khomeini’s influence originated
from Naraqi’s approach regarding the  Velyat-i Faqih . 12
In the transition from the rule of the Safavid to the Qajari, one
5.
of the leading senior religious scholars (as well as others from the
Usuliyya stream), Mullah Ahmad Naraqi (1771–1829), was consid-
ered to be an anticolonialist precisely at the time that Russia and
Great Britain were beginning to see that they had joint interests
in the Qajar state. A review of the literature of the Shiite texts over
the last few centuries shows that he was the initiator of the concept
Velayat-i Faqih , the authority of the religious leader, that was later
used by Khomeini to define the role of the religious leader in the
Shiite political world. 13
In his book  Awaid al-Ayam , Naraqi tried to define the role of the Shiite
religious leader in his time. One of his main conclusions revealed that
the religious leader, the  faqih , had the commitment to guide the commu-
nity during the Occultation Period ( Ghaybat ). One new idea here was that
the  faqih should play a role in state and defense matters but less in issues
regarding the administrative function of governmental roles. Nevertheless,
most of his theology was inspired by study and reference to the Quran
and Hadith even though, at this time, it was not usual to link the role of
the religious leader with politics. As long as the imam was absent Naraqi
considered the  fuqaha to be his deputies and the leaders of the community
and he vigorously defended the right of the mojtahed to act on behalf of

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
the imam as his empowered deputy. Rather than being a statement regard-
ing compulsory conduct, his arguments created an ideological debate since
Naraqi redefined the religious commitment of the Shiite religious leader as
one who played a role and influenced the community. 14
Obviously, the religious leaders of the community enjoyed great author-
ity and were indeed considered to be the representatives of the imam but,
as they were also believers, they regarded their religious task and func-
tion was to provide immediate solutions to daily issues. The question of
being involved in government and politics was not something that came
up. Naraqi was innovative in his definition of the religious leader’s task as
he took into account the fact that their power and impact (rights and obli-
gations) derived from the Hadith and historical references and also that
religious leaders were worthy of being part of the regime and trusteeship.
In any case the answer to the question of whether Naraqi believed in a sole
leadership (instead of the secular regime) or in a leadership together with
the secular government remains unclear. 15
The real argument between the Hojjatiyeh and Khomeini focused on
the  Ghaybat —the Period of Absence—and who was supposed to lead the
Shiite community during the Occultation Period. According to the Shiite
faith, since the Occultation of the twelfth imam, the Mahdi, the Shiite
community had had no spiritual leader and his place would not be filled
until his arrival. They realized that the lack of a religious leader might
weaken the religious force of the community and this is the reason why
there had to be a temporary substitute that would lead the community
until the arrival of the Mahdi. In the course of time the mojtahed came
to be considered the leader but then, as there were a number of Shiite
communities scattered throughout the country, there was a need for more
than one mojtahed. Because of this and through consultation with senior
religious leaders trying to find a practical and acceptable solution, the
Hojjatiyeh came to the conclusion that they preferred a collective leader-
ship for the religious community and were opposed to the integration of
religious scholars in “secular” politics. 16
Until the publication of his  Velayat-i Faqih , Khomeini himself believed
in a collective leadership and the Usuli method in which the religious
leader is only a consultant within the existing regime and not a politician.
Moreover, according to this, he should not take part in politics and has
to consult the sages of his time when a collective solution is required to
solve a problem for the Shiite community. In contrast the Hojjatiyeh, as
mentioned earlier, rejected the idea of the clerics’ intervention in politics
and only agreed to a role of consultation. As long as Khomeini was alive,
the conservatives’ religiopolitical approach was very similar to that of the
Hojjatiyeh, which meant they should only have a role of consultation and

Danger Ahead
the “watchful Guardianship role” of the Ulama. Only after Khomeini’s
death did the situation change. 17
Nevertheless, Khomeini’s  Velayat-i Faqih brought about a deep change
as it praised the involvement of a religious leader in politics and not only as
a consulting figure but much more as a ruler. The Hojjatiyeh, on the other
hand, adhered to the idea of a collective leadership meaning they were
deeply opposed to Khomeini’s method. They believed the ancient Shiite
method to be what was needed and that, instead of acting to rid the shah
and his regime of the enemies of Islam—which they considered to be the
role of the Mahdi—religious leaders should intensify religious faith in the
Shiite community.
According to the Hojjatiyeh system:
Only a collective leadership should be at the head of Shiite society.
1.
The Ulama should avoid any intervention in state administrative
2.
matters so as not to endanger their statutes.
There should be an extensive cultural process of Islamization (and
3.
in this case it should be even stronger than the one advocated by
Khomeini).
The agrarian reform and the nationalization of international trade
4.
(Islamic support of private property) had to be opposed and, in this
specific case, it was also against the White Revolution reforms of
Mohammad Reza Shah.
The revolution should not be exported. The Islamic revolution
5.
should embrace other Shiite populations but not through oppres-
sion or at any price.
The Hojjatiyeh should not be categorical in its approach to the pan-
6.
Islamic reality but, on the other hand, it should refuse to see nation-
alism from an ideological point of view. 18
The Hojjatiyeh who had adopted the most radical form of the Shiite inter-
pretation of Islam wished to implement religious laws as written in the
Quran and the Shari’a (and that would portray them as followers of the
Akhbari School). Politically the movement mainly focused on prevent-
ing social and economic reforms and on extirpating unacceptable content
from projected laws. 19
Since their original founders and supporters came from the bazaar mer-
chants and ayatollahs that were very rich and influential, the Hojjatiyeh
supported the free market system and were against the radical policies of
the Islamic government who wanted to nationalize trade and industry
and the distribution of land. 20 They were also opposed to the economic
changes proposed by the regime and initiated the debate regarding the

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
principle of private ownership. 21 The Hojjatiyeh’s criticism of religious
leaders involved in politics came together with their development as an
opposition to the regime party (especially the  Maktabi stream) that was
interested in the implementation of government controls over the economy
and international trade. 22
According to the Hojjatiyeh, until the arrival of the Hidden Imam, spir-
itual power should be separated from governmental power, which was only
temporary. Religious leaders were to be those who regulated the religious
spirit of the followers and the government was to be responsible for every-
day matters and practical issues. The belief, according to the Hojjatiyeh
allegedly, was that the arrival of the imam would be closer if there were
chaos, social disorder, corruption, and injustice among the people and
government (which is incorrect). The texts, however, argued that during
the waiting period society should be led by religious leaders ( fuqaha ). The
Hojjatiyeh condemned the enemies of Islam who were communist and
liberals, and their texts expressed hatred against the political enemies of
religion such as the United States. 23
In spite of their aspiration to become religious leaders, to lead to the set-
ting up of an Islamic republic and to deal with the harsh difficulties experi-
enced by Iran in the first years such as the attempt to stabilize the political
system, fix the bad state of economy, combat social anarchy, and manage
the war against Iraq, the real problem at that stage was the Hojjatiyeh
themselves as religious people opposed to the Ayatollah Khomeini’s repub-
lican system. Khomeini was blocked by the right wing of the religious
stream and was forced to delay the legislation of some religious laws. The
ultraorthodox stream, especially those who came from Qom (from which
Sheikh Halabi’s concepts came, as he originally came from Mashhad),
saw the legislation of divine laws in a more complex way, a way that, in
the beginning, challenged the religious-political path of Khomeini who
wanted to delegate and empower the new system to deal with its problems.
Those who were familiar and close to both Khomeini and Halabi saw
Khomeini’s level of religion to be like that of Karl Marx when compared to
Halabi. Halabi in turn denigrated the religious authority of Khomeini as
he claimed that he himself was the one who received religious decrees from
the Hidden Imam. Another criticism uttered by Halabi was that the new
regime was renewing its contacts with the communist Tudeh and this was
a reason to act against atheism and heresy. 24 For Halabi this matter might
have been like déjà-vu from the 1950s when Mossadeq had preferred the
secular loyalty of the Tudeh to the reluctant support of the religious leaders
and mostly Kashani and his fragile coalition. At this stage Khomeini was
promoting the Tudeh and strengthening his bonds with them rather than
with other religious groups such as the Hojjatiyeh who, like Kashani in the

Danger Ahead
past, offered political support for the administration of state issues but, in
contrast to Kashami, outside of any political framework.
The Hojjatiyeh were considered to be in the category of harsh line reli-
gious fundamentalism in Iran and essentially against the Baha’is, commu-
nists, and  Velayat-i Faqih . 25 The Hojjatiyeh considered Russia (but neither
France nor Great Britain) to be the second evil after the United States who
remained the Great Satan. 26 Their anticommunist hatred, on one hand,
and their anti-Western approach, on the other, left them isolated from any
non-Islamic country. Khomeini’s approach to the Baha’is was ambivalent
but taking no measures against them would lead the Hojjatiyeh to say that
he did not respect religious laws and this would undermine his author-
ity; thus it is very hard to say that Khomeini was pro-Baha’i. Moreover
any step he took in favor of the Baha’is would be considered as fawning
to public opinion worldwide. 27 In any case, according to the Hojjatiyeh,
the Quran’s command was to maintain good relationships with the peo-
ple of the book,  Ahal-al-Kitab , whether they were Jewish, Christian, or
Muslim—but never with atheists. 28
The removal of the first president of the republic, Abul Hassan Bani
Sadr, led to a change in the regime’s approach to opposition groups includ-
ing those that existed side by side with them like the left-wing parties and
the Tudeh who were subjected to political and even physical oppression.
This extreme measure was a characteristic of 1981–1983 as the impact of
the anticommunist Hojjatiyeh group within the regime was becoming very
clear. 29 Other parties in the Majlis, such as Bazargan’s Freedom Movement
and the Tudeh, were also fiercely criticized for their activity and clear ori-
entation based on an Islamic Republic. 30
The Ideological Split inside the IRP
The IRP consisted of a number of rival divisions with diverging views
regarding the purposes of the revolution. The regime party, the IRP,
included five groups of loyal followers of Khomeini, the main ones being
the Maktabis and the Hojjatiyeh (who were against Khomeini’s approach
but later sided with him). The veterans of the Hojjatiyeh were conservative
but more innovative about the  Velayat-i Faqih . It is important to note that
the Hojjatiyeh was not an organic, autonomous group and it would be more
accurate to say that it had a number of autonomous representatives some of
whom were more conservative than others. 31 It is not easy to identify the
leading group of the Hojjatiyeh but it comprised the Ayatollah Mohammad
Reza Mahdavi-Kani (who was president for a short time after the death of

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Ali Raja’i) 32 and the cabinet included some of the organization’s supporters
such as Foreign Minister Ali Akhbar Velayati, Qarazi, the Minister of Petrol
Faro Varesh, 33 the minister of labor, Ahmad Tavakoli, and other members
who also took part in the Guardian Council ( Shura-ye Negahban ). 34
The murdered president Ali Raja’i, one of the Hojjatiyeh supporters,
was also among the leadership members of the Islamic Republic 35 as was
another well-known figure, the spiritual leader of Iran, the Ayatollah Ali
Khamene’i. 36 This statement raises several questions concerning Iran’s
spiritual leader such as: Is Khamene’i still a member of the group? Why
did Khomeini allow him to continue in his office, and later showed pref-
erence for him as his successor? If, on the other hand, Khamene’i left the
Hojjatiyeh, when did this happen, and why? A positive answer to the first
question might mean that the Hojjatiyeh actually controls Iran today.
However, there is another opinion that claims that Khamene’i was pre-
cisely part of the Maktabis stream (the Imam Line) as was the ex-prime
minister, Mussavi, and his statements obviously show to which stream he
belonged. 37 The latter opinion seems to be the right one as it is supported
by Baqi who, in his book  Hezb-i Qaadin–i Zaman (Mawsum be Anjoman-i
Hojjatiyeh) , cites Khamene’i’s statement against the Hojjatiyeh in which he
compares the approaches of the Maktabis ( Ruhanian ) and the Hojjatiyeh
toward religious matters. Khamene’i states:
[O]ver the last decades we can see two main streams that, if looked at care-
fully, can be seen to be only one. This stream is the old traditional thinking
[of the Shi’a], and there is probably a kind of (and I’m saying this care-
fully) misrepresentation of the intellectual way of thinking . . . but, there
is another stream [the Hojjatiyeh] who have a long history and they are
widespread among the people . . . they talk about the Tawhid, the Nabawa,
Imamat, Imam-i Zaman, Entezar among other issues . . . this stream is nei-
ther traditional, nor reactionary, nor deceptive . . . once they used to govern
the people. I think that the Hojjatiyeh is built upon very complex and old
reactionary methods . . . no more than that [i.e., meaning the other streams
parallel to those of the Maktabis as abovementioned]. 38
In this specific statement Khamene’i does not use harsh words or denounce
the Hojjatiyeh. This does not make him a member or even a sympathizer
of the Hojjatiyeh, but could give us the impression that he sees them as a
group that has lost its way over the past decades and has chosen to stagnate
while the other religious movements and groups have chosen to challenge
their faith and become revolutionaries, especially concerning Shi’i thinking.
The struggle between the Maktabis (the Imam Line) and the Hojjatiyeh
was one of essence and both groups had a great impact on the shape of
the revolution. Beyond that, and in addition to the spiritual differences

Danger Ahead
between these two groups, they also had disputes regarding concrete issues
such as the agrarian reform, the relations between the landowners and the
land leasers, and so on. Moreover they fought for control over the guard-
ians of the Islamic Revolution within the army and religious institutions
and did not agree even in matters such as the limitation of freedom of
expression. Regarding foreign relations, there were differences of opin-
ion about the relations between Iran and the United States, Russia and
the Third World countries, about the export of the revolution, regarding
the war with Iraq (with the Hojjatiyeh praising the end of the war and the
peacemaking process), 39 relations with the Gulf countries, and the Iranian
contribution to revolutions in process. As for ideological and spiritual mat-
ters, there were differences regarding the  Velayat-i Faqih , the approach to
the issues involving the Hidden Imam and the date of his arrival, and the
process of Islamization and its limits. The Hojjatiyeh were more conserva-
tive in their religious vision while the Maktabis (Imam Line) were more
innovative in these matters. 40
One of the most fascinating disputes between the Maktabis and
the Hojjatiyeh was the question about the rule of the  vali or the spiri-
tual leader. The Makatbis who were scholars believed in the Khomeini’s
Velayat-i Faqih system according to which one religious leader had to be
at the head of the political pyramid of the country and lead the country
with no separation between religion and state. His religious supremacy
was not less important than his political supremacy. On the other hand, if
the Hojjatiyeh could choose between a one-man leadership and collective
rule, they would surely choose the latter. The Hojjatiyeh believed (espe-
cially after the Islamic Revolution) that if the clerics were supposed to lead
the country they should do it in the old tradition way—as counselors—
and not be involved in “secular” politics. 41 The Hojjatiyeh was against
any direct intervention of religious leaders in politics and this, of course,
undermined the  Velayat-i Faqih issue. 42
The Hojjatiyeh were also opposed to the appointment of one unique
successor after Khomeini as they were against the  Velayat-i Faqih system
in principle. 43 The Hojjatiyeh together with the Imam Line supported the
idea of an Islamic country but did not encourage the export of the revolu-
tion while the Imam Line wanted to promote it. Nevertheless, according
to foreign diplomats, the struggle between the two movements (or so it
seemed to them) was not likely to endanger the stability of revolution-
ary Iran (although this seems to have been otherwise as Khomeini pushed
away the Hojjatiyeh). 44
The vision that dominated the first years of the Iranian Republic was
that the regime was in fact a temporary phase until the coming of the
Hidden Imam. The republic had not yet reached its highest religious

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
achievement as the Hidden Imam had not yet arrived. In the meantime
the task of the republic was the inculcation of religion and the removal
of all antireligious factors. The Hojjatiyeh, while rejecting the  Velayat-i
Faqih and its content, argued that the religious leaders, especially the most
senior, should distance themselves from repulsive politics. At the same
time those members of the Hojjatiyeh who did join politics under the guise
of being moderate implemented the religious order in a very strict way. 45
In fact from the summer of 1981 onward the Hojjatiyeh increased their
power more and more. Some argued that they represented a third of the
Majlis members including their presence in the various committees and
ministries. 46 The Hojjatiyeh, who were the right wing of the IRP in power,
were also opposed to holding religious positions or acting as functionaries.
(Later on this chapter will explain why the Hojjatiyeh, despite their belief
in not taking part in politics, eventually joined the new Iranian political
arena at the very highest of echelons.)
The Hojjatiyeh also believed that the  Shura —religious council(s)—
that existed within workers’ associations or anything else that was related
to labor-state–capital (as argued by the Maktabis wing) did not belong to
Islam. They considered power came from God through the imam who was
the intermediary and, in his absence, through a secondary intermediary who
was the imam’s deputy and this belief led to the non- Islamization of the
councils. At the start of the 1980s, the minister of labor, Ahmad Tavakoli
(who replaced Bani-Sadr’s minister of labor, Mohammad Mir Sadeqi, and
was a follower of the Hojjatiyeh), said that “Islam does not recognize the
Shura system. According to Islam, the government belongs to Allah, to
the Prophets and to the Imams, and in their absence, to the substitute of the
Imam ( Nueb ).” 47 This same Tavakoli, in 1981, prohibited the setting up of
new religious councils for a year but the workers’ protest brought about the
cancellation of the prohibition. In contrast to other cases, this time Khomeini
praised the Hojjatiyeh system regarding the religious councils. 48
In an interview with the magazine  Ettelaa’t in May 1983, Tavakoli
changed his mind regarding the  Shura when he stated that the way Islam
related to the council institutions was different from the system of the
councils that existed in Marxist societies. According to him, “[T]he admin-
istrative system is not supposed to be elected (from bottom to top) [like in
democratic societies], it is not the Islamic way, but the whole idea of the
Velayat-i Faqih and in our case the  Velayat (government) is the authority
(from top to bottom) [from God to the imam and his deputy].” 49
In July 1983, the prime minister of Iran, Mir-Hossein Moussavi, vehe-
mently attacked the Hojjatiyeh calling them the “guards of the bazaar”
who were social and economic criminals and turned to the courts to pros-
ecute them. According to Moussavi, the religious leaders of the Hojjatiyeh
gave strong support to the people of the bazaar and other economic factors

Danger Ahead
opposed to the government’s economic reforms. The attack and threats
expressed by Moussavi against the Hojjatiyeh opened up a new front
between the followers of Khomeini and the Hojjatiyeh in the struggle for
power in the regime itself. 50
Another issue of debate between Khomeini and the Hojjatiyeh follow-
ers was the question regarding the time of the arrival of the Hidden Imam.
Khomeini’s followers argued that Khomeini himself was the Hidden Imam
although Khomeini never called himself this nor declared himself to be the
Mahdi, but the reality of the revolution was based on messianic longing. 51
The reasons for the dispute were based on the fact that Khomeini consid-
ered himself to be the deputy of the imam ( Nuab-i Imam ), the one who
was supposed to set up an Islamic government to prepare the coming of
the imam. On the other hand, according to the Hojjatiyeh, the Mahdi’s
coming was dependent on the extent of injustice and cruelty that existed
and they believed that the coming of the Mahdi was not immanent (as
the conditions for his arrival had not yet been achieved according to the
eschatological and apocalyptic, classical Shiite theology) and that they did
not recognize Khomeini as his deputy. 52
Realizing That the Revolution Could
Serve the Hojjatiyeh’s Aims
Following Mohammad Ali Raja’i’s rise to the presidency after the deposing
of his predecessor Bani-Sadr, the anti-Baha’i persecution in Iran increased.
Other minorities such as Jews and Christians also suffered (despite the
legal protection promised in the constitution), but the Baha’is suffered the
most. Many were fired from their places of work and were exposed to all
kinds of physical harassment and then the government announced that
their rights would be returned if they converted to Islam. 53 The Hojjatiyeh
announced that their hands were clean of this since Sheikh Halabi was a
pacifist and stood for nonviolence. 54
The Hojjatiyeh were surprised by the success of the 1979 revolution
and now hoped to realize their influence as individuals. In order to do this
they infiltrated the revolutionary institutions and centers of power (the
Revolutionary Guards and the Revolutionary Committees, the military
intelligence, and the Council of Guardians), and exploited them to combat
their longtime enemies: the communists, the Mojahedin, and mostly the
Baha’is. 55
Fearing a communist takeover during the Islamic Revolution
(1978–1979) Halabi ordered his followers to temporarily abandon the
movement’s ideas about collective leadership and a secular government in

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
order to be integrated into the organs of the revolutionary government. 56
Understanding the necessity to be integrated into the new government,
Hojjatiyeh members took up senior positions in Iranian politics, espe-
cially in the education, labor, and commerce ministries. One of them was
Muhammad Ali Raja’i who became minister of education, and immedi-
ately fired all Baha’i teachers in the state. He became president on August 2,
1981, and was assassinated on the thirtieth of that month, probably by the
Mojahedin-i Khalq. 57
The Attitude toward the
Communists and the “Tudeh”
According to the communists (mainly those from the Soviet Union) the
Hojjatiyeh were responsible for most of the anticommunist propaganda
in Iran since they considered them to be a front for the Americans. The
communists claimed that the Hojjatiyeh used their ties within the admin-
istration to remove the Tudeh from the parliament, and even persecute
them. The communists saw the Hojjatiyeh as a fifth column that served
the imperialists and anticommunist interests in Iran. 58
For a time the Tudeh was the only secular party allowed to exist and
its members even served in the parliament. Meanwhile the Hojjatiyeh did
their utmost (openly) to have the communist party outlawed. In 1983 all
party members were arrested on the charge of spying for the USSR and all
their newspapers were closed. Later, on May 5, 1983, the party was out-
lawed and its members were declared to be Soviet agents. 59 The Hojjatiyeh
were suspected of leading the move. 60
To the protestations that came from abroad were added those from
within. Members of the wing of the ruling party that followed the Imam
line, the IRP, claimed that the Hojjatiyeh were not only emissaries of
American imperialism who were criminally working to outlaw the Tudeh,
a party that represented a wide section of Iranian society, but were, in fact,
intending to destroy the regime in order to establish a capitalist state. The
Imam Line called upon the Iranian people to choose the right political
position and to beware of the Hojjatiyeh, which was a representative of
the CIA and a supporter of foreign intervention into Iran. 61 These same
supporters of the Imam Line, however, were also partners in outlawing
the Tudeh while simultaneously striving to drive the Hojjatiyeh out of
politics. Even following the Hojjatiyeh’s abandonment of politics the rep-
resentatives of the regime did nothing to bring the communists back to
politics.

Danger Ahead
The Hojjatiyeh as a Real Threat to the
Islamic Republic of Iran
After the revolution the movement  Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman changed its
name to Hojjatiyeh (followers of the imam in Arabic) 62 and it seemed as if
Sheikh Halabi’s change of name was an innocent Arabization, but in fact
the new name was an act of defiance against two enemies: the Baha’is who
were pretending to be the real representative of the imam and Khomeini
who, after the revolution, had adopted the title of imam or deputy imam
( Nueb-e Imam ).
As an enthusiastic follower of the senior Ayatollah Borujerdi, Halabi
belonged to the stream that objected to the forcing of the coming of the
Hidden Imam and believed that this would only occur when the world was
saturated with sin and moral decay. 63 At that time the ground would be
ready for the reappearance of the Mahdi, who would restore the world into
a moral state and impose Shi’a theology and practice. 64
Khomeini’s posing as the imam or deputy imam represented a theologi-
cal dilemma for the Hojjatiyeh since there was a gap between the present
situation in which there was the “posing of heavens on earth” as Khomeini
implemented this ideal, 65 and the classical theory that foresaw world chaos
as a precondition to the reappearance of the imam who would convert the
entire world to Shiite Islam and be its sole ruler. From the Hojjatiyeh’s point
of view the Islamic Revolution of 1979 did not fulfill this basic precondi-
tion; therefore the movement rejected the creation of an Islamic society
through the involvement of the clergy in politics. This task belonged only to
the Mahdi and would have to wait for his reappearance. 66 Thus Khomeini’s
political theory, the imposing of the Shi’a on politics, was not only wrong in
itself but was actually  delaying the second coming of the Mahdi.
In that situation, Halabi and his supporters had no choice but to view
Khomeini as a  Bab (a gate), just as the Baha’is saw the  Bab as a herald of the
coming of the Mahdi. 67 Moreover, now, not only did they have to prepare
themselves for the coming of the Mahdi, just as the Bab had asked his fol-
lowers to do (in a posthumous letter), they had to continue opposing the
Baha’is out of the Shi’a classical position, which denied the reappearance
of the Mahdi in the incarnation of the Baha’u’llah.
In contrast Khomeini believed that a legitimate Islamic government
could only be established by clerics and led by a spiritual leader who would
mold the spiritual tenets of that government. The Hojjatiyeh thought
that such a government would only be established by the Mahdi himself
and therefore they objected to the clergy’s active, as opposed to advisory,
involvement in politics—specifically to Khomeini’s  Velayat-i Faqih . 68

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Because of these ideas members of the Hojjatiyeh and their followers
suffered persecution from the Revolutionary Guards who were fanatic fol-
lowers of Khomeini and were intolerant of any opposition. According to
the Guards, by objecting to the  Velayat-i Faqih , the Hojjatiyeh had proved
itself to be supporters of the shah, and therefore deserved to die. A second-
ary argument against the Hojjatiyeh was that by clinging to their faith in
the future reappearance of the imam as opposed to the successful  Velayat-i
Faqih , they represented “earthliness” while a truly “spiritual” attitude was
being exhibited by Khomeini’s supporters, the true representatives of clas-
sical Shi’a. 69
Members of the Hojjatiyeh, however, suffered less physically (but not
from the damage done to their image by the propaganda) than members
of the Mojahedin or the Tudeh party (who both suffered physically from
the propaganda) for the following reasons:
They were a part of the extreme religious current that had over-
1.
thrown the shah’s regime, and had become followers of Khomeini
notwithstanding their opposition to the  Velayat-i Faqih .
By entering the governing organs, the IRP and the Revolutionary
2.
Guards, members of the Hojjatiyeh had demonstrated their loyalty
to the revolution and had gained some control over these organs’
activities against their own movement.
As an integral part of the orthodox Iranian people the Hojjatiyeh
3.
Society had distinguished itself during the Iran-Iraq War, and had
therefore gained the regime’s gratitude. 70
The Hojjatiyeh was among the many movements and a party that, from
a propagandistic point of view, was suppressed after the revolution but
whose excellent organization enabled it to be integrated quickly into the
new political spectrum, notwithstanding its passive and adaptive stance.
In other words, in the new political reality where the clergy were in control
of the state, they had to decide whether they should stand aside or take an
active part in politics.
In the first year of the revolution, prior to the first presidential and
parliamentary (Majlis) elections, the Hojjatiyeh, as already noted, objected
to the  Velayat-i Faqih , which Khomeini was actualizing. The new political
reality and the danger from the left wing of the political arena (the Tudeh
party, the Mojahedin, or, God forbid, the Baha’is), however, forced them
to align themselves with Khomeini and his party and, in the referendum
that took place in December 1979, they reluctantly obeyed their leader
Mahmud Halabi and voted for the new constitution. 71 In exchange, sev-
eral members of the Hojjatiyeh, who were also members of the IRP, gained

Danger Ahead
entrance to the Majlis and even to the cabinet. However they paid dearly
for this.
The crises came in 1983 as it became clear that the war against Iraq was
far from any conclusion and the Hojjatiyeh started criticizing the Islamic
Republic for its inability to end the war or bring about necessary social
changes. Although the criticism was delivered quietly Khomeini disliked it
in spite of the fact that it came from a senior and more experienced cleric
Sheikh Halabi. 72
But this criticism of the government’s inability to end the war was dif-
ferent a year before, when Halabi sent Khomeini a letter that glorified the
winnings of Iranian Army in the battlefield:
In the name of God I would like to express my congratulations to Ayatollah
al-Ozma (Grand Ayatollah) [Khomeini] the great leader of the Revolution
and the founder of the Islamic Republic, praised by God, for the recent
precious victory of the brave Iranian soldiers in the battle front. And I
also congratulate this victory to the Iranian citizens who are very religious
enthusiasm in our dear Iran. 73
Khomeini declared that any clemency toward sin in expectation of the
Mahdi’s coming was unacceptable, that all clerics should act to minimize
sin and that his critics (without pointing any finger) should reconsider their
positions. It was inconceivable to him that they should complain about the
situation and denigrate the Islam represented by the Islamic Republic as
worthless. In this way, he claimed, they were justifying the pseudo-Islam
of the shah and, in the present state of the revolution, anything represented
by the shah, pseudo-Islam included, was reprehensible. Khomeini in this
way subtly referred to the Hojjatiyeh and other groups, emphasizing that
factionalism was antipatriotic and the source of all evil. 74
Khomeini’s supporters interpreted his criticism as an opportunity to
blame the Hojjatiyeh for trying to create chaos in order to hasten the sec-
ond coming of the Mahdi. Since there already was a Shiite notion allowing
for the deliberate creation of such chaos what might have been interpreted
as a simple accusation of criminal behavior was in fact a sign of an internal
religious struggle.
In view of this, the leader of the movement, Halabi, decided to cease all
activities declaring this to be his “religious duty.” The movement, however,
did not disperse but went underground. 75 Nevertheless, Khomeini’s sup-
porters continued their attacks for, from their point of view, the Hojjatiyeh
might be revolutionaries or even anarchists, and by removing their support
from Khomeini they must now, by definition, be antirevolutionary adher-
ents of “adaptionism.”

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
From this we can come to three conclusions (two regarding the Hojjatieis
and one the Khomeinis):
The Hojjatiyeh, as adaptionists, viewed any political and Islamic
1.
activity prior to the reappearance of the Hidden Imam as a heresy.
Therefore they “abstained” from any such activity in the struggle
between the shah and the Islamists.
They did not see Khomeini as an object of emulation (
2.
Marja’-i
Taqlid ), who deserved to be  Vali Faqih , the heir of the imam or his
representative and substitute.
If they did not want Khomeini, and did not act against the shah,
3.
they must be for the separation of religion and state, and were
therefore accomplices of the SAVAK. Following the revolution, the
expression of such an idea could only lead to the outlawing of the
Hojjatiyeh.
Following the organization’s outlawing Khomeini’s followers used the
entire arsenal of criminal charges to denounce them, notwithstanding
their passivity. The Hojjatiyeh thus became “imperialists,” objectors to the
war against Iraq, and “anarchists” whose only goal was the return of the
imam, and so on. 76
Baqi in his book about the Hojjatiyeh provides a further interpreta-
tion for the Hojjatiyeh “threat.” His hatred of the Hojjatiyeh, probably on
behalf of the clerical circles that supported the Islamic regime, is obvious
and blind but when one analyzes his attitude and reads between the lines,
one discovers that the Hojjatiyeh’s opposition to the high-ranking Islamic
clerics and the imam (Khomeini) was obvious and constant. Some issues
posed by them were legitimate by their standards but Baqi says that their
methods of response to these issues were neither logical nor moral.
The Hojjatiyeh used to brandish the names of Ayatollah Khouei and
Ayatollah Shariatmadari who accepted and cooperated with the movement
and, according to Baqi, these actions gave the Hojjatiyeh power to “oppress
the people who asked questions by showing the papers of acceptance from
religious leaders and Imam(s).” After the revolution, Baqi writes, “they have
announced that the Ayatollah Khazali is an agent of the Imam (Khomeini)
in the Anjoman (Hojjatiyeh) and is collaborating with us and so the Imam
has also accepted us . . . Mr. Halabi loves the Imam Zaman (12th) and any
meeting he organizes is acceptable.”
Baqi presents more quotations from the movement on behalf of
Khomeini and, according to him, Khomeini also said: “Do not be sad about
the people who oppose you, your opponents are stupid and if they oppose
you intentionally they oppose your master the Imam Zaman (12th).”

Danger Ahead
Due to this evidence that the Hojjatiyeh had good relations with some
grand ayatollahs, or could quote Khomeini in support of their cause, Baqi
believes that “the methods of solving problems were not logical and wise
but they deprive the right of thinking from the people and made them a
slavish people . . . their methods of solving problems were not logical and
wise for they deprive people of the right to think and make them slaves.”
He then emphatically writes that
some Ayatollah[s] who have accepted the Anjoman [Hojjatiyeh] were not
aware of its falsity and it was for this reason that the Bahai’s were grow-
ing . . . and [that] the Anjoman people said we are fighting against the
Baha’is and this was the reason that some Ayatollahs valued and accepted
the Anjoman . . . if these Ayatollahs were aware of the real nature of the
Anjoman, they [would] change their ideas about them.
Baqi attacks the Hojjatiyeh and accuses them of an arrogance that has
led them to treat the people as stupid and infidels. They discouraged the
asking of questions and when pushed would answer thus: “[A]re you a
religious leader that interferes in these issues?” The questions that were
asked even caused quarrels between people and people who were arrested
and tortured by the SAVAK would say that “this happened because of 12th
Imam’s anger or because he is deprived of God’s mercy.”
According to Baqi, the Hojjatiyeh claimed that their efforts to advance
the coming of the revolution were greater than those of the guerrillas. In
the early stages of the revolution, the Hojjatiyeh also mentioned the name
of the Mojahedin and claimed that most of the fighters or leftist guerilla
groups were members of the movement. Their main claim was indeed that
“we looked after the Muslims and the religious youth so they could join
the revolutionary forces,” and that “a lot of fighters and Islamist govern-
ment officials were raised in the Anjoman.” Baqi writes that before the
revolution the Hojjatiyeh was a party that included fundamentalists and
“fanatics” and, because of this, orders were issued based “on avoiding con-
flict, nonintervention in politics and consideration of governmental inter-
ests by the leadership and chiefs of staff.”
Baqi finds three types of political elements that existed in the
movement:
The people who accepted the role and ideology of the movement
1.
with all its deficiencies and political vision.
The people who were revolutionaries and followers of the imam
2.
(Khomeini) who used the movement as a cover for fighting and car-
rying out their religious duties. In order to identify themselves as

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
members of this group when arrested and to gain the confidence of
the SAVAK they allowed them to conceal their identities.
After the revolution these people went their separate ways and
3.
many left the movement and from this point onward the movement
became a homogeneous group made up of those who were blind
believers and who had joined it after the revolution. These people
neither understood nor were familiar with the movement’s nature
and tried to hide this by pretending to be revolutionaries.
Another way the Hojjatiyeh treated members was by placing spies
among them and controlling them in parallel with their pursuit and con-
trol of the Baha’i people and carrying out espionage for the SAVAK. They
did not do this to stop the entrance of anti-Islamic and antirevolutionary
people into the  Anjoman , but in order to learn which people were actively
opposed to their organization, were uncommitted, or were reading pro-
hibited books such as those written by Dr. Ali Shariati. Whenever such
people were discovered the spies informed the  Anjoman immediately that
they were deviant. 77
Khomeini versus Halabi as Rival Luminaries
Ideological and religious struggles do not take place devoid of issues
involving ego, prestige, and dignity. The greatness of leaders, thinkers,
preachers, and intellectuals stems from their personalities and the inner
energies they employ in order to transform their theories into practice, to
turn their visions into reality. These thinkers do not operate in a void or
under laboratory conditions; social reality is their field of action and the
battlefield of their ideas.
Charisma is made up of personality, appearance, the structure and
tone of speech, and the momentum of action but may get weaker or
stronger with the circumstances. To the charismatic religious leader are
added his religious mission and the ability to move a mass of fanatic
believers for an extended period of time. The religious leader or preacher
is surrounded by many rivals wishing to capture some of the believers for
themselves.
In the social, political, and religious reality of Iran, Khomeini and
Halabi represented polar opinions between which everyday Shiites could
not tell the difference. As far as the man in the street was concerned turn-
ing theory into practice was what mattered and he would support the
leader that seemed most capable of doing this.

Danger Ahead
When Khomeini launched his political career Halabi was already a vet-
eran in the field. Khomeini employed his rhetorical prowess as a religious
persona to recruit potential followers who would flock to him and be his
adherents. Until the end of the 1960s, Khomeini, like Halabi, spoke about
the Shi’a from the “adaptionist” point of view but Halabi remained anony-
mous and did not search out the limelight of public consciousness. In the
1950s Halabi was known publicly as the founder of the Hojjatiyeh and
was a very familiar personality in religious circles. At that time Khomeini
was also beginning to be well-known in these circles since he had already
published his first book and had become an ayatollah in 1943—but he still
poured water on the great ayatollah Borujerdi’s hands. Only in 1963 did
Khomeini burst into the public consciousness with his scorching criticism
of the White Revolution imposed by Muhammad Reza Shah.
Following the shah’s ban on the activities of the Hojjatiyeh and the
consequences of these political constraints and international pressure, the
Sheikh Halabi returned to anonymity—which suited him better anyway.
His organization did not disperse but it lost all political influence and thus
disappeared from the social and religious consciousness. Until the arrival
of Khomeini there was a vacuum of religious-consciousness for at least a
decade and he conquered center stage in Iran even though, as a religious
scholar, he was not superior to Sheikh Halabi.
By the time of the revolution Khomeini already had a huge arsenal
of supporters ready to give their lives for him while Halabi could only
count on some twelve thousand Hojjatiyeh supporters, 78 most of whom
were lower-class clergy with some seniors nurtured by the ayatollah for
many years. By the time of the revolution, in 1979, there were some three
hundred religious associations in Tehran alone, most of which were con-
trolled by the Hojjatiyeh. These associations, aside from of their charitable
activities, supplied teachers and mentors for various gatherings of youth
who were easy prey for propaganda either in support of the shah’s White
Revolution or anti-royalists. Khomeini’s rhetoric served to prove to these
youth that the Shi’a represented innovation and was adaptable to the spirit
of the times and its challenges. 79 Those Hojjatiyeh members who partici-
pated in the meetings, even when they disagreed with Khomeini’s rheto-
ric, could not stem the influence he had on the audiences, some of whose
members would later form the Revolutionary Guards.
Although Halabi disliked Khomeini, the rising star, and his far-reaching
interpretation of the Shi’a, and despite claims to the opposite by Khomeini’s
supporters, the Hojjatiyeh joined the attacks against the shah especially
when he proposed ameliorating the social status of the Baha’is. 80
In fact, after the revolution the Hojjatiyeh’s power increased because
now they could act freely against their old enemies, the Baha’is, and they

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
sought to expand their influence within the new administration. Thanks to
their wide network of supporters spread all over the country, the Hojjatiyeh
captured many important positions in the new civil administration and
parliament. Unlike Khomeini, Halabi kept his distance from the limelight
and directed his followers from his home in south Tehran but his voice was
heard condemning Khomeini’s “Imamate” pretensions. 81
Prior to the revolution Khomeini made references to all the other
revolutionary and antirevolutionary sections of the public, including the
Hojjatiyeh, which he saw as an antirevolutionary movement that sought
the separation of religion and state. They were suspected of being proroyal-
ists, and Khomeini wondered: “How is it possible to remain indifferent to
the sale of alcohol, to the debauchery and corruption [of the shah’s regime],
in expectation of the just reign of the Imam?”
In response to these accusations Halabi replied: “The SAVAK knows
us, and knows our aim, that we are far from the political factions . . . We
support the Ayatollah Khomeini . . . ” But that was before the revolution
and the hatred between the two schools would come mainly after the
revolution. Despite this the Hojjatiyeh were identified as an opposition,
antirevolutionary movement, not only as one that was pro status quo but
as a movement that was leading the opposition parties that favored the
continued repression of religion. They were, in fact, seen as an Islamic
opposition to Khomeini and the revolutionary movement that was striving
to change the Islamic society of the state. Khomeini’s supporters claimed
that by preaching that religion is a private matter, the Hojjatiyeh’s were
advocating the secularization of the state. 82
Following the revolution, Khomeini’s aides wished to remove the
Hojjatiyeh from all positions of power in the state administration, particu-
larly from the Ministry of Education and from the schools, lest they imple-
ment their programs and alter the character of the revolution. 83 Like other
authoritarians, Khomeini was very sensitive to the role of education and
schools being responsible for shaping the next generation of the revolution.
Therefore letting such institutions fall into the hands of “antirevolutionary”
elements meant the waiving of future power. No wonder the Islamic consti-
tution removed all elements that threatened the religious and political sys-
tem from the educational system, especially those, such as the Hojjatiyeh,
who were suspected of having had ties with the previous regime.
Opponents of the Hojjatiyeh who were supporters of the ideology
Khomeini offered regarding the function of the clerics within the political
system during the Occultation of the imam saw the association’s view of
the Hidden Imam as pure fatalism. Khomeini supporters emphasized the
need to heal society even during the imam’s absence and that this was only
possible by turning for guidance to the sages of each generation.

Danger Ahead
Of course, the Shiites still kept expecting the return of the imam but
believed that society must function within frameworks fixed by the spiri-
tual leader of the generation whom they did not see as a replacement for
the imam but as a proxy who, in the meantime, was working to correct
society. The Hojjatiyeh were seen as fatalists who stuck to the classical
ideal of expecting the imam and the consequent correction of the world
that would take place only after his arrival. Any alternative to this was seen
as unrealistic, illegitimate, and even something that would diminish the
expectation. 84
Khomeini and the Banishment of
the Hojjatiyeh
According to David Menashri, until August 1983 not much was said in the
official Iranian media about the Hojjatiyeh and the challenges they posed
to Khomeini’s ruling ideology. However for two weeks of that month they
became the preferred target of the media and the regime. These attacks
took place simultaneously with the establishment of the “Council of
Guardians,” which was to decide who would be Khomeini’s heir, a matter
of crucial theological importance to all sides concerned.
In the summer of 1983, in order to minimize the Hojjatiyeh’s influ-
ence, parts of the ruling party—the IRP, began a negative propaganda
campaign that presented the movement as deviating from the true path
of Islam and Khomeini himself spoke about the Hojjatiyeh’s “Illegitimate
Path.” 85 The first volley against the Hojjatiyeh was shot by the National
Iranian Radio in June  1982 . According to the announcer the Hojjatiyeh
were exploiting their Islamic identity to undermine the Islamic Republic
and their opposition to the Imam Line was designed to overthrow the
republic. They claimed that their anticommunism made them suspect of
being “yes men” of the United States, that they were raising hatred among
the people against the revolution, and were treating their opponents every-
where violently. Their only aim was the creation of chaos and therefore
they were as hateful as the Americans. 86 In April 1983 Radio Iran attacked
the Hojjatiyeh fiercely claiming that under the guise of Islam, the move-
ment was allowing itself to be self-righteous and arrogant and to smear
its opponents. Their anticommunist stance counted for nothing because,
by presenting them as atheists, they were ignoring the great contributions
the Tudeh party had made to Iran ever since the 1950s. The Hojjatiyeh
who pretended to be surrounded by “foreign agents” were such themselves,
agents of the CIA and the Mossad who were running the state as their

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
puppets. 87 This was exactly the sort of thing that could be heard on the
Soviet radio.
In July 1983 Khomeini spoke to the Guardians Council and stated that
“the Islamic Republic has enemies from within—enemies among clerics
who constitute the most serious threat against the Islamic Republic of
Iran.” For those in the know it was clear that Khomeini was attacking
Halabi. What bothered the former by then was not the war with Iraq but
disunity among the clergy, a situation that would affect the people’s belief
in the clergy who were its leaders. 88
According to the state radio the West had decided to combat Iran by
employing members of the clergy who were apparently identified with the
revolution (meaning the Hojjatiyeh, the supporters of the capitalist mer-
chants of the bazaar). The radio noted that Khomeini not only regarded
these clergymen as false and promoters of American interests in Iran but
that they were Islam’s and the Shi’a’s greatest opponents and a threat to
the stability of the regime. This organization was accused of hindering the
execution of economic programs and other revolutionary plans, of shak-
ing the foundations of the revolution, and even of calling for an Islamic
monarchy. 89
The radio continued to interpret Khomeini’s declarations as statements
that painted the opponents of the republic as pro-American and pro-British
and that the Hojjatiyeh association objected to the Islamic constitution
and was looking for support in its efforts to hinder the development of the
Islamic Republic. 90 In July 1983 this propaganda against the Hojjatiyeh
and its members, including cabinet ministers and members of parliament,
resulted in a wave of popular protest against the movement and the interior
minister, Nateq-Nuri, who was received in his hometown with cries of
“Death to the Hojjatiyeh.” 91
In a reply to these attacks, on July 27, 1983, a member of the Hojjatiyeh
published a document relating to Khomeini’s speech in the council,
which intensified the tension between the Maktabis and the Hojjatiyeh.
The document declared that, following Khomeini’s criticism and in view
of the hostile atmosphere, the organization had decided to suspend its
activities “for the sake of Islam.” They regarded this as their religious duty
but were not abandoning their beliefs or the religious goals of the move-
ment. In fact, with this letter the Hojjatiyeh determined their fate. They
decided to go underground and cease their activities, understanding that
Khomeini would not permit rival theologies to live in the Islamic space
of Iran.
The counterresponse was quick; Khomeini’s loyalists were offended by
what they construed as an attack against their leader. They claimed that “the
Hojjatiyeh presented themselves as better Islamists than Khomeini,” and

Danger Ahead
“instead of assisting the Republic they were turning against the regime.”
At this stage the attacks against the Hojjatiyeh gained intensity and the
attackers claimed that “the movement is in fact pro-royalist” (beginning
in 1970 Khomeini insisted that the monarchy was un-Islamic), and “they
did not act against the Shah, thus revealing themselves to be his support-
ers.” From all this they deduced that the Hojjatiyeh objected to Khomeini
and his  Velayat-i Faqih and never saw him as a  Marja’-i Taqlid (an object
of emulation).
In addition the Maktabis claimed that the Hojjatiyeh supported the
separation of religion and state and that their sole religious interest was
the suppression of the Baha’is and the communists. They accused them of
cooperating with the SAVAK, of being supporters of imperialism, objec-
tors to the war against Iraq, and finally, since the establishment of the
republic, that they had encouraged violence, corruption, and suppressed
public morality. It is important to note that such accusations were also
directed against all opposition movements such as the Mojahedin, the
Tudeh, and so on.
The Maktabis then claimed that “suspending their activities” was actu-
ally ordered by Halabi, meaning that, in the eyes of the Hojjatiyeh, he was
the superior authority in Iran and that they blamed Khomeini for creating
an “unhealthy atmosphere” there. Next they accused the Hojjatiyeh of not
being any different from the Mojahedin-i Khalq who had “suspended”
their activities in 1981 (meaning they intended to continue their activities
against the republic from the underground); and last, by saying that the
Hidden Imam would prove them right, the Hojjatiyeh were actually claim-
ing that Khomeini was not being guided by the imam. 92
Following their self-suspension, there were political elements in Iran
who estimated their power and influence over the regime to be much more
than it actually was. Leftist organizations, such as the Tudeh, claimed that
the Hojjatiyeh were the driving power of the revolution, especially behind
the scenes. Currently it is assumed that despite their apparent disappear-
ance, the Hojjatiyeh still have their own agenda in revolutionary Iran. 93
Four years after the revolution Khomeini forced the Hojjatiyeh, who
were afraid of being violently repressed, to outlaw itself. The split between
the regime and the organization occurred as a result of a fierce theological
dispute between Khomeini’s political activism and Halabi’s passivity. 94
In spite of the deep ideological chasm, many members of the Hojjatiyeh
joined the ruling party and some became leaders of revolutionary Iran. 95
One must ask why they joined a party that negated their organization
politically as well as ideologically while they still denied the  Velayat-i Faqih
concept. 96 Did they hope to change the IRP from within, or were they
acquiescing to the religious demand, to commit  Taqia ? 97

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
The regime and the Maktabis movement were apprehensive of the
Hojjatiyeh and other revolutionary movements; since they feared that they
might start a popular movement against the Islamic Republic, they sought
to uproot their presence from the political and the educational systems.
They believed that future generations of politicians must develop through
an educational system loyal to the regime so in 1988 the Majlis set out
rules to guide all the madrasas in the land. They had to be Islamic, teach
Islamic subjects, be committed to the  Velayat-i Faqih and to the constitu-
tion, not teach about the previous regime, and their principals had to be at
least 30 years old with no background in any banned association such as
the  Monafeqin (related to the Mojahedin) or the Hojjatiyeh. 98
In 1989, after the conclusion of the Iran-Iraq War, the regime launched
a new cycle of political cleansing in government ministries and state-
owned companies. The victims were mostly those who had lived in the
United States or had relatives there, as well as the remaining members of
the Hojjatiyeh 99 ; 615 of them were arrested, 15 of whom were senior man-
agers in the national petrol company. The excuse for their arrests was their
opposition to the religious and political lines of the regime. 100
Going Underground
The Hojjatiyeh, as was their habit from the mid-1950s to the revolution,
chose to commit  Taqia in order to save their skins as well as their ideology.
However, even if politically the organization’s voice is hardly heard now,
they are still very active among the people and outside politics. Since being
outlawed and going underground in 1983 the organization has been thriv-
ing and, according to rumors, the Ayatollah Muhammad Mesbah-Yazdi
and his pupil, the president of the republic Muhammad Ahmadinejad, are
among its members. 101
After being outlawed and after dissolving the Society on August 12,
1983, 102 Halabi returned to Mashhad but other members of the Hojjatiyeh
continued serving the government. They joined the Islamic Coalition
Association,  Jamiyat-i Motalifihi-ye Islami , which was a coalition member
and one of the most fanatical and orthodox associations in Iran. 103
Mutahhari studied his advanced curriculum in Mashhad at the  Hauzih-yi
Ilmih-i Mashhad (the Traditional Educational Centre of Mashhad). This
Hauza was equivalent to the Qom and Najaf  Hauzah s 104 and it is thought
that Halabi himself studied at this particular  Hauzah of Mashhad.
Many preachers ( Imam-i Jume ) warned the crowds attending the Friday
services about the renewed activities of the Hojjatiyeh and Ayatollah Abbas

Danger Ahead
Amini Masharud accused them of recruiting people within the Mosques 105
(which made sense since they were open to the public while all the educa-
tional institutions were supervised by the government).
In 2002, the minister of intelligence and security, Hojjat ul-Islam
Unasi, announced the arrest in Qom of several people suspected of sup-
porting the Hojjatiyeh. The Iranian newspaper  Keyhan (September 2002)
claimed the Society was the equivalent of the Reformists and the  Khordad
Group, two groups suspected of aspiring to separate religion from the state.
According to this organ of the government both groups not only objected
to an Islamic government and aspired to a secular state but members of
both groups were among the wealthy and objected to the  Velayat-i Faqih .
The newspaper portrayed the Hojjatiyeh as proponents of anarchy, sin,
and social corruption and, like the reformists, by arguing that the demo-
cratic system allowed them all kinds of freedom—even the freedom to
behave corruptly—they were themselves corrupt; in fact their anti-Marxist
stance alone made them Westernizers. This “anti-Marxist” argument, at a
time when Marxism had already been greatly discredited throughout the
world, indicates how out-of-touch the regime was. Later, when these pro-
pagandists realized the absurdity of their arguments, they started arguing
that the Hojjatiyeh were anti-Sunnah.
Following the ban on the Hojjatiyeh in the 1980s its members “dis-
appeared” into the Islamic Coalition Society ( Mutalifah ), which was
backed by the merchants of the bazaar and, according to rumors, this
neo-Hojjatiyeh society directs its activities at inflaming Shi’a-Sunnah hos-
tility. This was the accusation leveled at them in 2004 by  Baztab , a Persian
Internet site, which accused them of publishing anti-Sunnah literature in
Arabic under the pretense of doing this in Beirut. 106
On the other hand Ayatollah Abul Qasem Khazali, a former member
of the Council of Guardians, protected the Hojjatiyeh and rejected the
rumors about the renewed activities of the Society when he said: “I know
these people very well, they are not active, and I know that their activities
are pro-Islam. Therefore all accusations regarding their renewed activities
are lies.” 107
Ayatollah Khazali (who was a Hojjatiyeh member) explained the issue of
the extension of Islam, something that was very important to the Muslims,
and why the Hojjatiyeh did not take part in the revolutionary activities
since they did not imagine that the revolutionaries would prevail and the
revolution achieve its goals. The Hojjatiyeh did not allow their members
to participate in political activities because, if they did so, the Hojjatiyeh
would be eradicated and never be able to continue extending their reli-
gion. In regard to spiritual matters, they had Ayatollah Khouei’s  fatwa that
allowed them to stay out of politics without committing sins. This method

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
of being apolitical came to be the main challenge and cause of tension
between the revolutionary forces and the Hojjatiyeh during and after the
Islamic Revolution. 108
The Iranian Radio station  Farda claimed that the Hojjatiyeh were
supporting Ayatollah Ali Sistani who was living in Najaf, Iraq, and, like
Halabi in Mashhad, stood for the separation of religion and state. Here we
can see that there was religious rivalry between Qom (i.e., Khomeinistic
methodologists), which stood for the union of state and religion, and
Mashhad, which supported the separation of state and religion. This
expressed the essential difference between the Khomeini-Qom axis and
the Halabi-Mashhad one.
Sistani, like the Hojjatiyeh, objected to the  Velayat-i Faqih and the fact
that the government was apprehensive about an organization whose reli-
gious-political agenda might undermine its legitimacy is clear. According
to the Iranian media, the Hojjatiyeh, realizing that its anti-Baha’i message
had lost its relevance, was still clinging to its anti- Velayat-i Faqih line and
was using the new anti-Sunnah line of propaganda in order to infiltrate
Iranian society. 109 We should keep in mind here that, as a matter of course,
the Iranian regime always delegitimizes and hunts all opposing movements
from the Mujahidin to the Greens.
Apprehension about the Rise of the
Hojjatiyeh and Increased
Propaganda against Them
Following the defeat of Muhammad Khatami by Ahmadinejad in the elec-
tions of 2005, the former president said that his downfall was engineered by a
“powerful organization” but refrained from naming it. This statement might
reflect the thoughts of those among the designers of the Islamic Revolution
who see the present regime in Iran as an ultraorthodox creation that might
be ascribed to the Hojjatiyeh. In this case, Khatami had intended to rely
on the higher authority of Khomeini, who objected to the Hojjatiyeh for
the reasons mentioned earlier, and he attacked these “shallow conservatives”
who stood behind Ahmadinejad’s regime, implying they were Hojjatiyehs.
Ahmad Tavasoli, a former aide of Khomeini’s, argued that both the
Iranian government and the Revolutionary Guards had actually been
hijacked by the Hojjatiyeh, and were therefore controlling Ahmadinejad as
well. Other unidentified elements argue that Ahmadinejad’s rise to power
was actually a coup engineered by conservative Revolutionary Guards who

Danger Ahead
saw the election as a way to put an end to the eight years of reform led
by Khatami and suspect that the Hojjatiyeh were behind the coup that
explains why the West is so interested in the organization.
These reformists, anticonservatives, and anti-Hojjatiyeh critics argue
that “among the 21 members of Ahmadinejad’s cabinet members, three are
former Hojjatiyeh members”: Hojjat ul Islam Gholam Hossein Mohssani-
Ajakhii—head of the intelligence who is a graduate of the Haqqani School
(identified with the Hojjatiyeh); Ayatollah Mohammad Taqi Mesbah-
Yazdi, an ultraconservative cleric who is said to have issued a  fatwa oblig-
ing the two million members of the Basij to vote for Ahmadinejad; and the
interior minister—the conservative Mostafa Pur-Mohammadi, who is also
a graduate of the Haqqani School.
Muhammad Sadri describes the inner political struggle associated with
the Hojjatiyeh: “[T]his particular form of mud-slinging that disappeared a
quarter of century ago—when the secular left accused the religious estab-
lishment of having clandestine Hojjatiyeh affiliations—is gaining currency
again in the new battle of titans over ideological hegemony in Iran i.e. the
battle between the traditional right-wing and the revolutionary right-wing
clerical establishment.” 110
Ali-Akbar Mohtashmi-Pur (a senior clergy member and member of the
Militant Clerics Society) has attacked the Hojjatiyeh, saying:
Two groups were supported by the SAVAK prior to the revolution: The
Baha’is and the Hojjatiyeh. The Hojjatiyeh’s basic tenet was that mem-
bers of the clergy were not allowed to mix in politics. Whoever deviated
from this rule was thrown out of the movement . . . They believed that the
struggle against the Shah was illegal and supported the opposition to the
Imam Movement (Khomeini) . . . During the Shah’s regime, they shared the
religious-nationalist platform of the secular parties.
According to Mohtashmi-Pur:
While investigating the nature of the movement we find that already
Khomeini distinguished between two types of Islam, one of Mohammad
the Prophet, the other American . . . prior to the revolution the Hojjatiyeh
and the Mahdiviya objected to the true leadership [of Khomeini], this group,
American Mahdiviya objected to the pure ideology of the Imam Khomeini.
However, following the revolution it changed its tactics and decided to infil-
trate the regime and gain power within the center of the government.
He added that:
[A]fter the victory of the Islamic Revolution, the head of that move-
ment [Mahmud Halabi] informed Khomeini about the availability of

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
15–16 thousand educated and orthodox Muslim youth able to run the
country . . . The Imam rejected the offer, stating that only those who took
part in the revolution (namely supporters of the Imam) would rule the
state . . . Although the Hojjatiyeh pretended to be non-violent, and lenient
to the opposition, they were very violent, accused their opponents of her-
esy, and physically “got rid” of those they could lay their hands on.
Mohtashmi-Pur added that the “Hojjatiyeh tried to stain the support-
ers of the Imam as communists . . . And that the violent group is growing
again today.” Regretfully, “this group’s voice is heard everywhere, they are
engaged in a ‘witch hunt’ and even blame our youth . . . they are promoting
the same American ideology of the pre-revolution period.” 111
In answer to a question regarding local and national elections
Mohtashmi-Pur said that, to his regret, “there is a new practice concern-
ing the elections to the Council of Experts. From now on the Council of
Guardians will approve candidates to the other Council of Experts . . . ”
In the past he had said that “the Mojtaheds and the heads of the religious
seminaries were responsible for the ratification of candidates, not any gov-
ernment agency, since electing the leader is above the government . . . If a
leader is elected like a president or a member of parliament then his post
becomes a governmental one.” In his opinion, article 110 of the consti-
tution states that there are two aspects of the leadership—religious and
governmental—and that the leader’s spiritual and scientific investiture
must be ratified by the clergy, not by public servants.
According to Mohtashmi-Pur:
A movement (he probably means the Hojjatiyeh) which is part of an orga-
nized sect is working to take hold of the Council of Experts . . . this by
encouraging young people [to enter that council] (probably supporters of
Mesbah-Yazdi). If successful, the Council of Guardians will ratify these
candidates and will enjoy a huge majority in the Council of Experts . . . Some
people think that, lacking popular support, this sect (the Hojjatiyeh) will
not pose a threat to the system, but I believe otherwise. A movement as
sophisticated as the Hojjatiyeh is always a threat to the people and the
regime. 112
Other notables, such as Mohsen Karbalai attacked the Ayatollah
Mohtashmi-Pur for linking the Hojjatiyeh to the Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi
when he said that Yazdi was the one attacking the sectarianism represented
by the Hojjatiyeh and that their undermining the prevailing order assisted
the reformist camp; so, in the light of this, who could call Yazdi the “leader
of the Hojjatiyeh sect?” 113

Danger Ahead
Majid Ansari, also of the “Militant Clerics Society,” argues that
some 40–50 years ago expectations for the return of the Mahdi resulted
in the establishment of the Hojjatiyeh . . . they met and recited the  Nodbeh
(a prayer for the return of the Mahdi) . . . basing their faith on their struggle
against the Baha’is . . . meanwhile promising the SAVAK to keep a distance
from politics or any opposition to the Shah. All members, because of their
love for the Mahdi, swore never to enter politics . . . thus while they were a
success religiously they were a failure politically.
“Today,” according to Ansari, “the other face of the Hojjatiyeh enters
the field, fighting the ideology of ‘pure Islam.’ Their Islam is violent and
extremist . . . they do not accept any interpretation of Islam but their own,
which is a total distortion . . . ”
Ansari added:
[T]hey [The Hojjatiyeh] tell the story about that man [Sheik Halabi] who
saw the Mahdi and another man who saw him and all of these stories are
insults to the Imam Zaman (of the generation), the Mahdi, and abuses
the religious and emotional sentiments of the believers; the political sys-
tem’s duty is to beware of them since its responsibility is to spread pure and
unadulterated Islam. 114

This page intentionally left blank

Chapter 6
The Evolution of Extremism
The Birth of a New Branch—the Mahdiviyat
From its beginning Islam has witnessed divisions, splits, and the appear-
ance of new groups such as  Khawarej , the Shi’a,  Zaids , and others. It
appears that the common denominator for most of these groups splitting
away has been political reasons. Most of the ideological and theological
developments that later arose have been an appendix to the split and not
its motive and in the distant future would reflect the uniqueness of these
groups and movements. The history of Islam is sown with a factionalism
that has created unique groups in Middle Eastern history and presented
Islam as a religion built on a wide basis that has allowed religious and
political interpretation.
From the beginning the Hojjatiyeh movement presented itself as anti-
revolutionary and apolitical. Its tendency not to associate itself with the
revolution’s leaders could be seen externally in its religious-theological
disconnection from Khomeini—but not exclusively in it. Their apolitical
point of view actually identified them as a movement that did not want
to take part in the current political system but did not brand them as an
antipolitics movement. The exact semantic phrase cannot be sufficiently
precise in this research, but it is true to say that the way the Hojjatiyeh sees
politics is through a religious lens (and perhaps not too differently from
the way Khomeini saw it), but the activation and application of this politi-
cal view is conditioned by timing. The Hojjatiyeh’s leaders and followers
have, in general, wanted to remain closer to the old Shi’a monolithic texts
and wait for the right moment for the ultimate implementation of the right
politics—not the compromising politics of Khomeini.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
The Hojjatiyeh saw revolutionary politics in Iran as impure, the kind
of politics that led the believer away from the true and real historical path
that the imams and the Ulama of the previous centuries had created. This
misdirection, they believed, prevented the believer from concentrating on
the Shi’a’s historical aspirations and the total belief that the Mahdi would
finally come. This specific interpretation categorized them as antirevolu-
tionaries and was a category that helped Khomeini shape and build his own
revolution. The mirror effect that the Hojjatiyeh supplied for Khomeini,
not intentionally of course, presented him as a traitor who had abandoned
a centuries old path and provided a religious alternative—ironically in the
name of the Hidden Imam.
As written in the previous chapters, the split that the Hojjatiyeh expe-
rienced began on the eve of the revolution at the time when some of the
Hojjatiyeh’s followers saw an opportunity to ally themselves with the new
entity that Khomeini was creating. These members of the Hojjatiyeh did
not abandon the Hojjatiyeh’s way completely but only wanted to exploit
the opportunity to exercise their religious power and perhaps advance their
own mission. We can conclude that, in the first stages of the revolution, it
was hard to know the direction in which the wind was blowing. Khomeini
never revealed his intentions or gave any exact operational orders but let
things happen and navigated them for his own purposes just as an expe-
rienced warlord would manipulate a battle to achieve a great victory. This
approach helped Khomeini to not make promises to any of the revolution-
ary groups and helped him to shrewdly analyze the political components
of the Islamic Revolution.
When the revolutionary fervor grew many of the Hojjatiyeh’s mem-
bers left the society and joined the radical groups close to Khomeini and
his followers, and this was mainly because the leaders of the Hojjatiyeh
refused to join the revolution’s instigators. Those who left the society
called themselves “ Sadeqis ” after the sixth imam, Jafar a-Sadeq, and this
divided the society into two groups: The Hojjatiyehs (most of whom came
from Mashhad) who adopted the classical, traditional way of Shi’a inter-
pretation; and the  Sadeqis (most of whom came from Qom) who preferred
interpretation built on inference and logic, something which also helped
them to find their way out of the Hojjatiyeh. 1
Before the Islamic Revolution, in 1977, the Hojjatiyeh changed their
name from  Anjoman-e Zad Baha’i to  Anjoman Hojjatiyeh Mahdiviyeh . 2
The reasons for this action could be interpreted in three ways: first—to
announce that they were still there, living and breathing; second—to indi-
cate a change in their aims and goals; and finally—to grant recognition
to the current atmosphere, to the popular voices that were calling for the
removal of the current regime of the shah, and to open themselves to the

The Evolution of Extremism
revolutionary winds blowing from the direction of Khomeini and its influ-
ence on the social and religious life of the Iran of the late 1970s. In one
way it could be understood from the new name that the Hojjatiyeh was the
Mahdiviyeh. In the 1990s, however, although the Hojjatiyeh split again
into the Hojjatiyehs and the Mahdiviyeh some claim that they still could
be recognized as one entity 3 —but is this assumption true?
The reason for the change of the society’s name and the addition of a
new name (Mahdiviyat) is neither clear nor well understood. The name
change could be understood as their wish to bring about a real change
in essence but this could have been only a semantic change that did not
necessarily indicate any desire to change anything in their ideology. Many
groups and organizations change their names, so what is the real difference
here? It seems that only the facts we can collect about the Hojjatiyeh after
their name change can provide us with the real reason for this new look.
When a veteran and recognized society such as the Hojjatiyeh changes
its name, it needs to undergo major changes in order to adjust to the new
reality. In this case, and at first, it seems that this society changed from
being a Baha’i chaser, one that could only be recognized from its previous
name as an anti-Baha’i sect, to an organization that wanted to change its
old name, the Hojjatiyeh—and add an essential part, Mahdiviyeh, which
would establish a new, albeit unclear, identity for the movement. On the
other hand, however, and perhaps this was an outcome of the year 1977
when Khomeini finished sowing the seeds of revolution that would be har-
vested two years later, one must consider the fact that the shah dismissed
his loyal prime minister of a dozen years—Abbas Hoveyda. He was of
Baha’i origin but had converted to Islam and, after the revolution, would
be executed by the Hezbollah who were the first and unofficial version of
the Revolutionary Guards.
The name “Mahdiviyeh” is reminiscent of the first name of the move-
ment: the Hojjatiyeh, which is its best-known name and literally means
“the Followers of the Mahdi.” Ze’ev Maghen suggests two possible reasons
for the use of this name. The first is the use of the name “Hujja,” which
means “the proof,” one of the many names of the Mahdi, and the second—
the act of choosing this name was knowingly to declare that the organiza-
tion was “against any intervention in the political life of that world.” 4 After
the dissolution of the Hojjatiyeh in 1983 many of its members joined the
Jamiyat-e Motalifeh-ye Islami —the Islamic Coalition Society—and con-
tinued to serve in their governmental positions. 5
Sheikh Ali Davani, one of the prominent ayatollahs of the mid-twentieth
century, developed a theological interpretation of Borujerdi’s interpreta-
tions of the “ Bihar al-Anwar .” His main interpretation was introduced as
something that was a dialogue between the Shi’a and the Baha’i about

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
their claims in regard to the messianic vision. He also compared prophecies
from other religions about the Messiah/Mahdi’s arrival with these inter-
pretations and, inter alia, also pointed out the apocalyptic element and its
character from these religions. According to Davani Shi’a was a universal
religion very similar to what the Bahaullah claimed about the Baha’i faith
and later on the Mahdiviyat followers would adopt this universal approach
for all the Messiah-Mahdi believers all around the globe. 6
The Bah’a’ullah, the founder of the Baha’i faith, claimed that his appear-
ance had opened up a new chain of prophecy to the world and that even
after him, other prophets and messengers would appear. It may be said
that Davani’s theological confrontation with the Bah’a’ullah’s doctrine was
what the Baha’u’llah had done with the Bab’s  Bayan (who, for a short time,
also saw himself as the Mahdi). In fact engaging in an argument with the
Baha’is could be recognized as an acceptance of the Baha’u’llah’s cosmic
notion about the chain of prophecy and his claim that, even after him, the
prophecy would continue. It is possible that the Mahdiviyat, at one and the
same time, based itself upon the Baha’i’ faith while resisting it as a kind of
negation of the formula that had apparently created both of them. Either
way, the Mahdiviyat was a group that wanted to utilize the Shi’a senti-
ments and feelings concerning the Mahdi and thus ignite the old longings
of the people for their Mahdi. 7
Violence in the Name of the Mahdi
The second split inside the Hojjatiyeh at the end of the 1990s led the
extreme faction, the Mahdiviyat, to engage not only in verbal violence
in their literature but even in violence that was directed against actions
that they suspected were delaying the Mahdi’s arrival. In principle we
can say that the Hojjatiyeh saw Khomeini and his followers as those who
were delaying the arrival of the Mahdi; hence it seemed, at least theoreti-
cally, that the adherents of the Hojjatiyeh should take violent steps against
Khomeini and his followers, but they chose not to do this—at least not
physically. The extreme and violent part of the Hojjatiyeh, however, which
could be recognized as the Mahdiviyat, ultimately did choose to take part
in violent action. In 1999 the Hojjatiyeh was charged with taking part in
assassination attempts against several government officials and 34 of the
Hojjatiyeh and Mahdiviyat were arrested.
The Iranian regime saw the Mahdiviyat as having an anti-Sunni ori-
entation and as those who had tried to assassinate the former presidents
Khatami, Rafsanjani, and the justice head Mohammad Yazdi, 8 but the

The Evolution of Extremism
confusion that existed as a result of the regime not being able to clearly
distinguish between the Hojjatiyeh and the Mahdiviyat led it to proclaim
that the Hojjatiyeh were behind the assassination attempts. Many in Iran
identified Sheikh Mahmoud Halabi as the founder of Mahdiviyat (but not
the leader), and thought that they had good relations and links with the
elite Revolutionary Guards. 9
The Iranian Intelligence Office, however, announced that it was ter-
minating the Mahdiviyat since all its members, 34 in number, had been
arrested. A few of these members were charged with attempting to assassi-
nate high-ranking officials and the group was accused of having many links
with neighboring countries. They suspected that there had been an assas-
sination attempt on Justice Head Ali Razini in January 1999 and, in this
particular case, officials of the Intelligence Office were divided between
blaming the Mahdiviyat and the Hojjatiyeh but eventually decided on the
former. 10
The accusation of attempting to kill Razini was directed at the
Mojahedin-i Khalq and the daily newspaper  Hamshari reported that
the Mojahedin had claimed responsibility for this attempt, 11 but offi-
cial reports say that other opposition groups had tried to kill Razini and
it was not necessarily the Mojahedin. Between January and May 1999
there were other assassination attempts that led to a group named  Babak
Khoramdim , composed of retired officers, being accused of responsibility
for assassinations of several officials. The main turning point that took
place in this investigation, however, belongs to Mohammad Ali Jafari,
the head of the  Basij , who claimed that “there is a secret religious sect,
known as Mahdiviyat, which is responsible for the assassinations of peo-
ple [official figures], in the belief that these people are responsible for the
delay of the Hidden Imam’s appearance.” Jafari said that the Mahdiviyat
were responsible only for the attempt to kill Razini and not for the other
attempts 12 and that their leader was Hassan Milani (probably a descendent
of the cleric Ayatollah Mohammad Hadi Milani, who had died before the
Islamic Revolution). 13
The reason that the Intelligence Office declared that the Hojjatiyeh
were not behind the assassination attempts might have been because
many of the Hojjatiyeh members were serving in governmental positions.
The similarity between the Hojjatiyeh and the Mahdiviyat was confus-
ing and many mistakenly saw Halabi as the Mahdiviyat leader when the
Mahdiviyat leader was no less than a cleric named Milani. 14
In the first days of the revolution the enthusiasm about its success
soared and Khomeini’s followers saw his return to Iran as the reappear-
ance of the Hidden Imam, and that is what they called him—“imam”;
but it must be said that Khomeini never called himself imam. The

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Hojjatiyeh’s followers, however, were more sober and realistic. As Ze’ev
Maghen has clearly noted in his accurate and interesting article: “[T]his
organization [members of the Hojjatiyeh] chanted this slogan [ Mahdi
biya !—Mahdi come!] immediately after the revolution  specifically in order
to undermine the popular feeling that the Imam was already present in the
person of Khomeini . . . ” This means that, in their eyes, the imam had not
yet come. 15
We must bear in mind that the Hojjatiyeh were antirevolutionary  even
before the revolution and not because they could not find their own way in
the upcoming new political system. Shouting out in protest against the idea
represented by Khomeini’s return or even against his religious credibility
does not make the Hojjatiyeh anti-Mahdivism. For them, the appearance
of the Islamic Revolution and its undesirable product, the establishment
of the Islamic Republic, was preventing the reappearance of the Hidden
Imam. The existence of an Islamic entity that purported to represent the
Hidden Imam and the real religion of Islam (the Shi’i version) was con-
sidered by them to be a big misunderstanding of the future reality of the
Shiite eschatological belief. On the other hand, Khomeini, and especially
his followers, tried to present the Hojjatiyeh as antirevolutionaries (which
was true) and especially as those who held an anti-Mahdivistic approach.
And this was a real misconception.
The Hojjatiyeh, however, went back underground and their way
of belief and practice in the postrevolutionary era was seen as the old,
classical Shiite approach that believed in the historical expectation of
the Mahdi (and this made them similar to the Shi’a found in Iraq). As
Maghen emphasizes, “It advocates, in perfectly traditional, orthodox
Twelver fashion, the pious and passive practice of ‘awaiting’ the Savior,
but specifically  discourages and condemns as heretical any active effort to
hasten his arrival.” 16 This way of life in revolutionary Iran was unaccept-
able and, in the eyes of the regime, weakened the strength of the nation
and its representatives.
These “representatives” (the founders of the Islamic Republic) accused
the Hojjatiyeh of many things, starting with their rejection of Khomeini’s
Velayat-i Faqih methods (but the truth is that while they did recognize
the Islamic Republic as a political authority they did not recognize it as
a legitimate Shi’i-religious rule) and their nonacceptance of the regime
as a legitimate entity that wished to see Khomeini as the Hidden Imam.
Other accusations made were that they represented a Western approach
that advocated the separation of religion and had expressed their desire to
disconnect themselves from the  Marj’iyyat (the religious authority), and so
on. 17 As noted earlier the Hojjatiyeh chose to dissolve their activities and
go underground. This may have silenced their criticism against the regime

The Evolution of Extremism
but it did not silence the internal and other factions that searched for ways
to express their ideas and ways of life.
It is very hard to find evidence of the debates inside the Hojjatiyeh
circles but, from their practices, we can conclude what the main debates
concerning their way of life and how to preserve their beliefs and ideas
were.
The Hojjatiyeh could be characterized by their belief in nonintervention
in the state and politics and in training its disciples to stay out of politics in
their own lives. The revolutionaries, however, saw themselves as those who
were bringing about the global government of the Mahdi and prohibited
the monolithic practices and ideologies of the Mahdiviyat (the creed of
the Mahdi). For the revolutionaries the religious stand of the Mahdiviyat
(not to say the Hojjatiyeh) was fundamentally wrong and based on an
apocalyptic approach that wished to hasten the arrival of the Mahdi. The
revolutionaries, on the other hand, saw the time of the Mahdi’s return not
as a one-step thing but as an ongoing process that they had initiated and
practiced and were preserving.
During the Islamic Revolution the Hojjatiyeh tried to continue their
policy and wished to establish their own ideas that saw the government as
illegitimate, inefficient, and lacking in belief in the Hidden Imam. Hence
they advocated the separation of religion and state until the arrival of the
Hidden Imam. The Ayatollah Khomeini, both before and after the Islamic
Revolution, described the ideology of the separation of religion and state as
a “poison for real Islam” and demonstrated a rigid response to this devia-
tion in thought, which was represented by the Hojjatiyeh. 18
Khatami’s and Ahmadinejad’s Presidency
Periods—Back to the Flashlights?
During the 1980s, the Hojjatiyeh tried to find their way into the current
order without asserting their presence and their rivalry with Khomeini.
Unlike the other factions and others in Khomeini’s party they adopted
a quiet approach, which helped them to assimilate themselves into the
current order of politics. In this way the Hojjatiyeh blended into Iranian
politics without leaving any traces and bold declarations that could draw
criticism and, perhaps, the deadly attention that they did not want and
probably were unable to deal with.
We might have thought that this situation would change when a
so-called liberal and reform spirit developed in the Iranian political atmo-
sphere during the pragmatic and reformist presidency of Mohammad

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Khatami (1997–2005). 19 Apparently during this period, however, the
Hojjatiyeh were still underground or were probably highly assimilated in
Iranian politics and we see that, despite the “reformist” atmosphere during
Khatami’s era, the Hojjatiyeh were unable to rise up and make any come-
back into the Iranian consciousness.
Since we know that the Hojjatiyeh had a firm and unchanging
agenda, we might have expected them to rise against reformism during
Khatami’s time but not in favor of the Islamic Republic. The fact is,
however, that we can conclude from this that the Hojjatiyeh still existed
somehow in some format and consciousness that was clear and signifi-
cant. The suspicious facts and figures apparently come from the high
echelons of Iranian politics (the presidency) and from the religious sector
(the ayatollahs). The latter will be dealt with first as it is more relevant to
uncover the fragments of the Hojjatiyeh’s existence in this sector rather
than in the political one.
Thus by dealing with religious issues that are not necessarily in conflict
with the Hojjatiyeh’s political (or apolitical) beliefs, but are part of the
coherent framework of the Shi’a belief, we shall find where the Hojjatiyeh
assimilated if not the real traces of their presence.
From the first days of the reformist government led by the President
Mohammad Khatami, the Ayatollah Mohammad Taqi-Mesbah Yazdi
attacked it and the public figures who put these issues into the headlines
for dealing with many “liberal” issues. Yazdi, as a radical conservative
cleric, saw these issues as a form of foreign intervention in Iranian politics
and also attacked the so-called reformists agenda that had deeply rooted
connections with the enemies of Iran, without mentioning the United
States and the Zionists. Yazdi was against anything that looked or smelled
like “democracy” in Iran because, according to him, “the leaders of global
colonialism [i.e., United States and the West] believe democracy is a secu-
lar regime which is not compatible with religion” and that “such an inter-
pretation of democracy has no place in religion, and is totally opposed
to Islam . . . ” 20 Khatami on his part said that “freedom and diversity of
thought do not threaten the society’s security” but “rather, limiting free-
dom does so” and that “criticizing the government and state organiza-
tions at any level is not detrimental to the system, on the contrary, it is
necessary.” 21
As a reactionary, Yazdi called upon the defenders of Islam to take action
and not only by words against those who insult Islam. This attack by Yazdi
was a well-constructed criticism by the hardline clerics who saw Khatami’s
prodemocratic reforms as a real threat to the Islamic foundation of the
Islamic Republic. Khatami himself, however, also enjoyed some hardline
clerics’ support and the clash that took place was mainly above his head

The Evolution of Extremism
and was about conserving the real orientation of the Islamic Republic as
Khomeini saw it. 22 Yazdi, who belonged to the right-wing conservatives,
tried, together with other supporters, to capitalize upon public religious
sensibilities that would lead to “pitting different tendencies in the senior
religious leadership against each other.” 23
The Islamic Iran Participation Front—a reformist group headed by
Khatami’s brother Reza—chanted a few slogans such as “Iran for all
Iranians,” which were taken from the prerevolution period. This slogan was
even chanted during the shah’s time and angered the leading conservative
ayatollahs such as Ayatollah Mesbah Yazdi, who claimed that the slogan
meant that all “Iranian Moslems, including jurisprudents and Baha’is[?]”
should be equal. 24 In rejecting this phrase, Ayatollah Yazdi stated:
Is it for people to set forth their wishes, even though these are contrary to
Islam? [Does it mean] Iran belongs to all Iranians and everyone is equal?
Does it mean that a Baha’i is equal with a religious authority [a mullah]?
Today they are trying to recognize the Baha’is with the slogan “Iran belongs
to all Iranians.” Is not a Baha’i considered an Iranian? Don’t we have first
and second class citizens? Are people considered equal and, therefore, the
citizens should also be considered equal and of the same rank? Does it mean
that a Baha’i can become a president because he is a human being and an
Iranian? Are these considered human rights? Are we defending these kinds
of human rights? Is this the purpose of our Revolution? 25
He also described the reform movement as being more dangerous to
the republic than a military coup, since it promoted “greater freedom for
Iranians to write, read and behave as they wish.” 26 Ayatollah Mesbah-
Yazdi stressed that the Iranian Muslim community “must be governed
by religious values and instructions” and “must observe divine worship.” 27
The “2nd Khordard movement” did not step aside with their criticism of
the ayatollah. The reformists’ newspaper attacked him especially when he
talked about the “CIA expenditure for creating tension in Iran.” 28 This
was due to Yazdi’s accusations that the CIA was “infiltrating the reformist
government.” 29
Mesbah-Yazdi, who believed in very hardline conservatism and saw
himself as a defender of the revolution, served as a chief judge from 1989
to 1999 and a member of the Guardian Council of the Constitution
( Shura-ye Negahban-i Qanun-i Assassi ). He claimed to be the one who saw
underground waves of opposition in those who were trying to shake the
revolutionary foundations by allowing the reformists and other forces to
criticize the revolution and spread their philosophies and religious plural-
ism “and the idea of having more than one state religion in this country.”
He attacked this desire to replace “two of the revolution’s vital ideological

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
pillars (which were) the religious convictions and Islamic values governing
our individual and social behavior, (and which) are under serious danger
from the enemies of Islam.” 30
After representing him as a hardline cleric and a defender of the revolu-
tion, I would like to point out the claim that the Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi
is the spiritual mentor of President Ahmadinejad and has been accused of
being involved with the Hojjatiyeh. There are claims that Ahmadinejad
is “at this time [after the revolution] . . . inclined toward the shadowy
Islamic sect of Hojatieh, which was devoted to revering Shia Islam’s miss-
ing Twelfth Imam . . . ” Kasra Naji claims that this involvement with the
Hojjatiyehs has created an intellectual dilemma for Ahmadinejad, since
he himself has struggled internally with whether he should stay with the
Hojjatiyehs and not throw himself into the revolution’s boiling water,
or join the revolution. However, his dilemma was solved by Khomeini
himself who banned the Hojjatiyeh activities. 31 In this respect, note 13
of Naji’s claim that Ahmadinejad was a follower of the Hojjatiyeh relies
on an “interview with a top reformist politician who did not wished to
be named.” This can provide a small hint that the claim that Mesbah-
Yazdi was Ahmadinejad’s mentor 32 could be true, as Yazdi is one of the
reformists’ biggest rivals. Apparently, however, there is no other valuable
and documented sources that make the claim that neither Ahmadinejad
nor his mentor were Hojjatiyeh members or followers.
Naji does not explain how this dilemma was solved for Ahmadinejad
by banning the Hojjatiyeh since members or supporters of the Hojjatiyeh
did not stop being such when the Hojjatiyeh dissolved themselves. For
example, their belief that the clerics should be out of politics still existed
and Ahmadinejad (if he really was a member or follower/supporter of the
Hojjatiyeh) behaved the same way as other members did after the outbreak
of the revolution when they joined the pro-Khomeini Islamists in order to
find their way into the new order and politics.
Another study by Shimon Shapira and Daniel Diker titled “Iran’s
‘Second’ Islamic Revolution: Its Challenge to the West” is more decisive
in its methods and concludes that Ayatollah Mesbah Yazdi and his pupil
President Ahmadinejad are members of the Hojjatiyeh and are trying to
implement the Hojjatiyeh’s messianic approach by being actively involved
in Iranian politics. 33 A review of the sources used by Shapira and Diker
reveals that these sources discuss the new politics of the mentor-pupil
(Yazdi-Ahmadinejad) and the fear that arises from their current associa-
tion with the rumor of being members (or maybe leaders) of the Hojjatiyeh.
We can be easily captivated by this assessment as both of them, Ayatollah
Yazdi and President Ahmadinejad, represent, each in his own profession,
a kind of supreme radicalism. The first, Ayatollah Yazdi, blindly defends

The Evolution of Extremism
the  Velayat-i Faqih and its components and Ahmadinejad expresses the
wish that “Israel must be wiped off the map.” The implications and con-
nection between the two could lead us to one conclusion—that there is an
unwelcome treaty of free radicals. 34
However, even without them declaring themselves as members/followers
of the Hojjatiyeh, we can conclude from their deeds that they look like
or perhaps have an orientation toward Hojjatiyeh beliefs. Let us return to
Ayatollah Yazdi, a hard-line conservative whose statements remind us of
those made by the Ayatollah Halabi, especially when he spoke of Islam
and anti-Baha’ism 35 as mentioned earlier. This, however, is certainly not
true in regard to his statements supporting the Islamic Republic and his
rejection of all the reformist forces who (from his point of view) are trying
to weaken the Islamic Republic.
Like Halabi, who claimed that he was in contact with the Mahdi
through dreams or other means, Mesbah-Yazdi himself sees his stu-
dent Ahmadinejad’s success as being “due to ‘the special kindness of the
Mahdi.’” 36 Other similarities that can indicate his assumed connections
with the Hojjatiyeh are:
1.  The spreading of Shi’a both inside and outside of Iran, which is
a Hojjatiyeh belief and mainly the Islamic Republic’s agenda and
practice.
2.  That Mesbah-Yazdi was a director and lecturer at the Haqqani
School, 37 the school that many of the Hojjatiyeh’s members estab-
lished 38 and studied in.
3.  Disdain for democracy since he sees that the “Supreme Leader takes
his legitimacy from God and not from the populace.” 39
Yazdi, however, seems to be more affiliated with and actually sided with
the Khomeini line and in this he was unlike Halabi who preferred a col-
lective rule of the clerics. He saw this is as a second option and not as a
primary target as Khomeini wanted (and fulfilled). Yazdi referred to the
role of the  Velayat-i Faqih and the  Vali , whether this be Khomeini or his
successor Khamenei, as the leaders of the Muslim society and the one who
could lead them toward understanding God and His creed. According
to Yazdi, “[T]he Islamic Republic is in line with the implementation of
Islamic principles . . . the Muslim and revolutionary people of Iran continue
to listen to the command of the leader of the revolution . . . and implement
their duties” 40 and “only in the Islamic Republic of Iran could the marja’-e
taqlid [the Spiritual Leader, i.e., Khomeini and Khamenei] freely express
his views about issues and problems related to the Muslims [Sunnis and
Shi’is all together, inside and outside Iran].” 41

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Let us now return to Ahmadinejad who deeply believes in the return
of the Hidden Imam. This matter has been dealt with extensively by the
newspapers inside and outside of Iran and yet this particular emphasis
has made him look weirder and stranger than any other political or reli-
gious leader in Iran even though this is a fundamental Shi’a belief. This
messianic approach is, however, different from others as he, Ahmadinejad,
would like to do everything needed in order to “hasten the return of the
Mahdi.” 42 Although we are not dealing with Ahmadinejad and his govern-
ment’s preparations for the Mahdi’s arrival 43 it is still important to separate
the messianic approach from relating to the rumors that Ahmadinejad was
once a member of the Hojjatiyeh.
This line of thought, especially considering that Ahmadinejad has sur-
rounded himself with ministers and vice presidents who are deeply associ-
ated with the Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi (who repeatedly claims to have some
connection with the Hidden Imam—as Halabi did), leads us to weigh
the possibility that the very high echelons of Iranian politics is being led
by the Hojjatiyeh sympathizers. This is a claim that can never be proven
by any means, especially since the word “Hojjatiyeh” is despicable 44 and
sometimes compared to the  Monafeqin (hypocrites and nickname for the
Mojahedin-i Khalq). 45
Aside from this the split within the Hojjatiyeh Society, as mentioned
earlier in this chapter, led to the creation of the Mahdiviyat movement
that was terminated by the Iranian regime. As mentioned, this group was
blamed for the failed attempt to assassinate Ali Razini, a hard-line judge,
but it also planned to assassinate other key figures such as Presidents
Rafsanjani and Khatami and Ayatollah Yazdi as well. 46 This plan makes
it impossible to associate Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi with any part of the
Hojjatiyeh neither from his side nor from the Hojjatiyeh itself as they are
basically pacifists and a nonviolent group.
More than this, and as we have tried to show since the Hojjatiyeh’s
annihilation from 1983 till today, the name Hojjatiyeh is still part of
Iranian consciousness and awareness. Since they had no structured orga-
nization that could survive the Khomeini’s rough treatment, they went
underground without leaving any clear traces, but they did not disap-
pear completely. Iranian politicians and the political bodies rejected any
affiliation with the Hojjatiyeh due to Khomeini’s demands but those
same people who rejected the “Hojjatiyehs” were probably Hojjatiyehs
themselves.
As has been mentioned in the previous chapters, during the first days
of the Islamic Republic the Hojjatiyeh represented a third of Khomeini’s
party, the IRPI, and a third, whether they were 20, 30, or 50 people, cannot
disappear in one or two days. Their infiltration into the well-constructed

The Evolution of Extremism
political bodies has allowed them to influence politics without raising
the Hojjatiyeh banners above their heads. We should, however, take into
account the fact that the rest of Iranian politics is composed of Khomeini
supporters who cannot be counted as Hojjatiyeh members and therefore
their importance, whether because of their number or influence, is much
greater than the Hojjatiyeh ever had. Despite this the Hojjatiyeh were nev-
ertheless annihilated because of their influence and power and, knowing
this, they found themselves unable to give up this power, a power that per-
haps is expressed in the political and spiritual dialogue of the very highest
echelons in Iran.

This page intentionally left blank

Conclusions
The Hojjatiyeh Society was founded in 1953 after Mossadeq’s fall, which
could be traced back to the religiopolitical climate that had arisen in 1941
especially following the impeachment of Reza Shah. At this time many
religious and political movements that wished to gain influence within the
fragile political framework that existed at the time of the inauguration of
the new shah, Mohammad Reza Shah, reemerged or started to flourish.
Among these movements there were many that found this to be the right
time to take revenge upon the Baha’i minority and exclude them from the
political and social arena. The question of what the real difference between
the movements that arose during the 1940s and the Hojjatiyeh Society,
established only after the Mossadeq crisis, was, however, remains. What
made the Hojjatiyeh Society unique and special in comparison to these
other movements?
The differences between the Hojjatiyeh and these movements were not
only very large but also essential, even though the fundamental cause for
the emergence of all these groups was similar—to fight the Baha’i minor-
ity. The real difference was that although these movements grew by leaps
and bounds and were strongly motivated against the Baha’is, they had
no coherent religious agenda and, compared to the Hojjatiyeh who were
dependent on political power to achieve their goals and purposes, were
more emotional than logical. Moreover, whereas they survived for only a
short time, the Hojjatiyeh has survived for at least three decades.
Apart from its anti-Baha’i nature and orientation the Hojjatiyeh had a
very strict religious creed concerning the Baha’i issue and their involvement
in political questions. Their agenda, when compared to the original message
of the Shi’a concerning the involvement of clerics in politics, actually seems
to be more classical and traditional than not. The other groups had a differ-
ent and clearly focused agenda, that is, the struggle against the Baha’is, but
the more complex agenda of the Hojjatiyeh helped them to survive under the
Pahlavi reign since, by presenting themselves as having an apolitical point of
view, they did not represent any political opposition to the shah, which, later,
was not the case with Khomeini and his  Velayet-i Faqih creed.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
Although the Hojjatiyeh were very similar to other anti-Baha’i move-
ments by nature, they were a movement that looked at the anti-Baha’i issue
from other aspects. For them, being an anti-Baha’i group was a philosophy
and theocratic task and not only a political or violent one. They, however,
decided that in this matter they would coordinate an apolitical approach
with a nonviolent and pacifistic agenda. To achieve this the Hojjatiyeh
concentrated its power in order to build a coherent and comprehensive
philosophy that would help them fight the Baha’is in the cognitive field,
although some of its members transgressed and employed violence against
the Baha’is.
This innovative method of the Hojjatiyeh against the Baha’i faith
and community inside and outside Iran was different and unique when
compared to the other groups and movements that were fighting against
the Baha’is at that time and before and after their appearance. The main
objection they had against the Baha’is was the issue involving the Mahdi,
the Hidden Imam, and his arrival. The Baha’is built their faith around the
appearance of the Mahdi who, for them, is the Baha’u’llah, the founder
of the Baha’i faith. The Baha’u’llah saw himself as the Mahdi who would
complete the old chain of prophecy with his arrival and open a new chain
of prophecy.
The Hojjatiyeh, when it was founded, had another name—the
Anjoman-i Zad-i Bahayat —but the other name they used—Hojjatiyeh—
actually reflects its essence and methods more clearly, in spite of the fact
that its initial name was more technical and descriptive. This essence
was expressed in the activities of its sections and units, from the leader
and founder, Sheikh Mahmoud Halabi, down to the grassroots members
whose task was to “fight” the Baha’i believers in their own field—by gath-
ering information from debates and lectures held within the Baha’i halls
and meetings. This would then be used to intellectually debate them and
embark upon missions of persuasion to convince the Baha’is to reconvert
to the real faith of the Mahdi—the Twelver Shi’a.
The Hojjatiyeh represented a very hard-line and traditional Shi’a ortho-
doxy and believed that the religious leaders and the clerics should stay out
of politics. This approach has been a very fundamental belief and practice
in classical Shi’a since the fifth and sixth imams—Muhammad al-Baqir
and Ja’far as-Sadeq, respectively. They do believe in the influence and the
legitimacy that the clerics need to give the ruler as long as he protects the
Shi’a faith and the nation from foreign threats. This is a kind of system of
compromise since, according to the Shi’a belief, only the Mahdi has the
legitimate right to rule and no one can or should replace him during his
period of absence.

Conclusions
The fact of the imam’s absence created a reality forced upon the Shi’a,
which the community had to face. The reality of, on the one hand, being
persecuted, and, on the other, being secluded was quite common for them,
but the reality of not having the leadership of the imam was less familiar.
These circumstances made the clerics realize that although they were pro-
hibited from holding leadership positions because they were reserved only
for the imam, they must nonetheless participate in some form of leadership
in order to promote their everyday and spiritual affairs. Therefore, during
the Safavid period, we find more and more clerics associated with advis-
ing the government and even holding official positions but, on the whole,
this same form of authority could not be called a government based purely
on Shi’a Islam. This reality was challenged by the Ayatollah Nimatollah
Salihi-Najef-Abadi, who came from a circle of clerics of the Usuli School,
which regarded religion as having a more pragmatic function in addition
to its spiritual function, and offered more tools for religious inquiry than
was the case with the Akhbariyya School approach. 1 For them reality was a
necessity to build a process of ideological activism, which would form the
basis for creating practical activism, in terms of constructing a government
based on religious leaders to serve as deputies of the imam on earth.
The debate between the clerics of the aforementioned schools was
essentially a theological discussion about the source of the imam or Faqih’s
authority. The first, the orthodox approach, claimed that the imam or
Faqih received his legitimate authority from God and not from the peo-
ple (but also because of his attributes, his perfection, and being without
flaw and sin); the second claimed that the imam or Faqih also received his
source of authority from the people (according to the existing agreement
between them). The conclusion thus arises that according to the second
approach, the imam is like all men, imperfect and capable of sin, and, in
such a case, if the imam or Faqih does not serve the good of the people, the
people can depose him and appoint a replacement.
In any case, the Shi’as have always believed that the “sword of state”
over the Muslim community must only be in the hands of the descendants
of Ali, who, in fact, are the descendants of Prophet Muhammad. 2 Must
then the Faqih who rules over the Shi’a community be also a descendant
of the Prophet? Not necessarily. The Faqih’s power derives, first and fore-
most, from his educational virtue and popularity among the Shi’a com-
munity. The power of the clerics actually came into being as a result of
the disappearance of the Hidden Imam and not as a result of rejecting
the established order, that is, the Shi’a community’s position as a possible,
although static, opposition to the Sunni leadership was actually what led
to the creation of the Shi’a clergymen.

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
From the tenth century till today the authority of the clerics has been
preserved and this is because they draw their religious and leadership
powers over the community from the disappearance of the imam. 3 The
Shia’s abandonment of the option of a revolution against the Sunni was
due to pragmatic considerations of the differences that existed in force
and strength, as well as the belief (which developed in retrospect) that
such a revolution would be led by the Hidden Imam—the Mahdi him-
self. Regardless of this, until the Mahdi’s arrival, the Faqih’s sole task in
the community was to be used as a spiritual channel and guide, and in a
theological sense to be a sort of deputy to the imam, a type of spiritual
surrogate.
Unlike during the Safavid Empire, which maintained the clerics’ pow-
erful status by including them in the government, and during the Qajar
period, when even if the clerics were not part of the administration they
received the proper respect as advisors to the government, toward the end
of this period, at the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of
the twentieth, the clerics became less and less influential in government
circles and lost their high and powerful positions. Their stature, however,
was safeguarded more in the Shi’a community itself despite the lack of
clerical presence in any governmental institution and their being denied
the position of giving counsel, all of which exposed and opened the Qajar
government to the many changes that were taking place in the world and
particularly in the Middle East.
These changes led not only to the Qajar government’s adoption of
Western governmental ideas, which were foreign to the medieval-like
regime traditional in Iran, but even to social and economic ideas that were
in contrast to the religious and cultural values of the Persian people. The
intention of these changes was actually to reduce the cleric’s power, and not
only that which remained in governmental institutions, but also to subvert
its grasp on the community. This enraged all the clerics in Iran who began
to express their disapproval of these adjustments more and more. 4
It was during this time, at the end of the nineteenth century and begin-
ning of the twentieth, that the clerics realized that without a fundamental
change of perception in understanding their role in the political, social,
and economic system of the state, the situation would only get worse. The
essential dilemma for them at this point was how to support or influence
an illegal government (since any government not led by the imam was ille-
gal), while not acting to replace it with a government of religious character.
This dilemma in fact, as ironic as it may sound, led them back to the same
dilemma, which the Shi’a community had had to deal with in the past, at
least until the rise of the Safavids (1501). Should they oppose the existing
order or try to influence it?

Conclusions
It was in answer to this question that the main philosophy of Khomeini
was conveyed in its expression of a revolutionary thesis, that is, the replace-
ment of the existing order with a religious order in the form of the “Rule
by Jurisprudence.” In essence such a government had to be composed of
two main layers. First, it had to be nothing less than a religious Islamic
government and second, the government had to be built on majority opin-
ion. 5 In Khomeini’s view, such a government would not, on the one hand,
purely represent or replace the rule of the imam but, on the other, it had to
implement divine law.
While there is a huge difference between the roles of the clerics ( fuqaha )
and the imams the  fuqaha still function by virtue of God’s will even though
all their authority stems from the functional and practical aspects that are
similar to what Prophet Muhammad and a dozen imams had. The sole
difference between them is found in those attributes passed down from
Prophet Muhammad to Ali and the rest of his imam descendants.
The Hojjatiyeh, although dissolved in the late 1950s, have never stopped
existing since they then separated into two groups ( Anjoman-i Tablighat-i
Islami and  Anjoman-i Zad-i Baha’i ) albeit without any central unit that
connected them. These groups represented the Hojjatiyeh especially in two
main ways—by the preservation of apolitical aspirations and by continuing
their fight against the Baha’i minority. By the late 1960s and the beginning
of the 1970s, Khomeini had developed his  Velayet-i Faqih —a notion that
already appeared in the Shi’i literature of the last three centuries. Khomeini’s
innovative thoughts were based on famous and respected scholars and uti-
lized the historical momentum to change the image of the Shia especially in
regard to the essential issue of the participation of clerics in politics.
The Hojjatiyeh thought that the clerics should stay out of the politi-
cal system but, if necessary, should counsel the political bodies. Although
they did not see things eye to eye with Khomeini they eventually managed
to find their way within his new political system. Before jumping onto
Khomeini’s bandwagon, however, they stepped aside, believing that this
revolution neither belonged to them nor to any religious movement.
The Hojjatiyeh’s fear of the establishment of a worse political system
than that of the shah, however, urged them to take part in the revolution
despite their apolitical agenda and beliefs. Since the Hojjatiyeh members
and supporters came from the middle class and also had secular educations
(as they had learned English and held relatively more white-collar profes-
sional positions than Khomeini’s mainstream supporters did) they ended
up holding many political and administrative positions within the new
political system.
Still, joining the political framework did not cancel or dissolve their
fundamental debate with Khomeini. This was certainly true in regard to

The Hojjatiyeh Society in Iran
all the interpretations concerning the  Velayet-i Faqih that neither corre-
sponded with their Shi’a perspectives nor reflected the Shi’a mainstream.
This debate with Khomeini’s approach actually sharpened the political
and religious identity of the Islamic Republic of Iran as the Hojjatiyeh’s
members could express their religious ideas alongside, and sometimes
instead of, Khomeini’s.
The Hojjatiyeh did not abandon their belief that the clerics should
stay out of the political system. Its members who took part in Khomeini’s
political system were not, and did not see themselves as, religious leaders
and even less as clerics. This probably helped them to have their cake and
eat it too, so to speak—to grasp political opportunities in order to promote
their agenda against both the Baha’is and against Khomeini at one and
the same time.
Until their exclusion from the political field in 1983, the Hojjatiyeh
succeeded in charting a religious path that the Iranian regime has been
following ever since. “[I]t is possible to suggest that its ideology is more
influential today than in the past and that it is very popular amongst
the new conservative forces and is enjoying a renaissance.” 6 The debate
between the conservatives and the reformists concerns issues involving
their own power and its legitimacy regarding the question of whether to
give the spiritual leader power over the Majlis and the Council of Experts
or vice versa. As we know, the Hojjatiyeh were against the theory of the
Velayet-i Faqih , which gives the spiritual leader extensive authority over the
collective leadership (the Council of Experts). We can therefore conclude
that even though nowadays we might not find members of Hojjatiyeh in
Iranian politics, we can surely find their theological and political/apolitical
approaches deeply embedded within this fragile political system.

Notes
PREFACE
1 .  Said Amir Arjomand,  The Shadow of God and the Hidden Imam; Religion,
Political Order, and Social Change in Shi’ite Iran from the Beginning to 1890
(Chicago: The University of Chicago, 1984), 270.
1 THE STORY OF THE SHI’A
1 .  Hamid Enayat, “Shi’ism and Sunnism,” in  Shi’ism: Doctrines, Thoughts, and
Spirituality , ed. Seyyed Hossein Nasr (New York: State University of New
York Press, 1988), 79–80; Rudi Matthee, “The Egyptian Opposition to the
Iranian Revolution,” in  Shi’ism and Social Protest , eds. Juan R. I. Cole and
Nikki R. Keddie (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1986), 248; Michael
Axworthy,  Iran, Empire of the Mind—A History from Zoroaster to the Present
Day (London: Penguin Books, 2007), 201–203.
2 .  Axworthy,  Iran, Empire of the Mind , 178.
3 .  Karen Barkey, “Islam and Toleration: Studying the Ottoman Imperial
Model,”  International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society , vol. 19, no. 1/2
(December 2005), 10; Bruce Masters, “The Treaties of Erzurum ( 1823 and
1848) and the Changing Status of Iranians in the Ottoman,”  Iranian Studies ,
vol. 24, no. 1/4 (1991), 7–8; R. I. Cole and Moojan Momen, “Mafia, Mob
and Shiism in Iraq: The Rebellion of Ottoman Karbala 1824–1843,”  Past &
Present , no. 112 (August 1986), 116; Juan R. I. Cole, “‘Indian Money’ and
the Shi’i Shrine Cities of Iraq, 1786–1850,”  Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 22,
no. 4 (October 1986), 470.
4 .  Enayat, “Shi’ism and Sunnism,” 80.
5 .  Graham E. Fuller and Rend Rahim Francke,  The Arab Shi’a—The Forgotten
Muslim (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1999), 94–95.
6 .  Bernard Lewis, “The Shi’a in Islamic History,” in  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , ed. Martin Kramer (Boulder: Westview Press, 1987), 21.
7 .  Richard Yann,  Shi’ite Islam; Polity, Ideology, and Creed (Oxford: Basil
Blackwell Ltd, 1995), 28–31.

NOTES
8 .  A’llamah Tabataba’i, “The Shi’i Interpretation of Hadith Literature,” in
Shi’ism, Doctrines, Thought, and Spirituality , eds. Seyyed Hossein Nasr,
Hamid Dabashi, and Seyyed Vali Reza Nasr (Albany: State University of
New York Press, 1988), 34–36.
9 .  Moojan Momen,  An Introduction to Shi’i Islam (New Haven: Yale University
Press, 1985), 176–177.
10 .  Ibid., 153–156.
11 .  Seyyed Hamid al-Idrisi,  Al-Fadhiha leMadhhab al-Shia al-Imameya ([?]:
Maktabat al-Radhwan, 2007), 15–16. Retrieved from  www.waqfeya.com
/book.php?bid=6113 (February 29, 2012).
12 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 173–174; Lewis, “Shi’a in Islamic
History,” 29–30.
13 .  Enayat, “Shi’ism and Sunnism,” 71–75.
14 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 179–180; Mohammad Ali Amir-Moezzi,
“Une absence remplie de présences. Herméneutiques de l’occultation chez les
Shaykhiyya (Aspects de l’imamologie duodécimaine VII),” Bulletin of the
School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, vol. 64, no. 1
(2001), 8.
15 .  Rola el-Husseini, “Resistance, Jihad, and Martyrdom in Contemporary
Lebanese Shi’a Discourse,”  Middle East Journal , vol. 62, no. 3 (Summer
2008), 401. See also Abdulaziz Abdulhussein Sachedina,  The Just Ruler
(al‐sultan al‐adil) in Shi´ite Islam: The Comprehensive Authority of the Jurist
in Imamite Jurisprudence (New York: Oxford University Press, 1988), 105.
16 .  The full name is: Mulla Muhammad Baqir bin Muhammad Taqi bin
Maqsud,  Bihar al-Anwar al-Jama’t lildarar Akhbar al-Imat al-Athar (Taba’t
Tehran, Dar al-kitab al-Islamia).
17 .  Majeed al-Khalifa,  Gharaib Fuqahiya I’nd al-Shi’a al-Imamiya, 44;  http://
www.dr-majeed.net .
18 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 179–180.
19 .  The Shi’a adds another part to its Shahada: “Ali is a Vicegerent of God.”
20 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 181–183; “The Doctrine of the
Imamate,”  The Origins and Early Development of Shi’a Islam ,  http://www
.karbala-najaf.org/shiaism/289–316.htm .
21 .  Marvin Zonis and Daniel Brumberg, “Shi’ism as Interpreted by Khomeini:
An Ideology of Revolutionary Violence,” in  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , ed. Martin Kramer (Boulder: Westview Press, 1987), 50.
22 .  Mahmud Shahabi, “The Roots of Shi’ism in Early Islamic History,” in
Shi’ism: Doctrines, Thought, and Spirituality , ed. Seyyed Hossein Nasr
(Albany: State University of New York Press, 1988), 15–20; Momen,
Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 11–12.
23 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 147.
24 .  Ibid. Seyyed Hamid al-Idrisi,  Al-Fadhiha leMadhhab al-Shia al-Imameya ([?]:
Maktabat al-Radhwan, 2007), p. 11. Retrieved from  www.waqfeya.com/book
.php?bid=6113 (February 29, 2012).
25 .  For further information, see  chapter two and also Momen,  Introduction to
Shi’i Islam , 197–199.

NOTES
26 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam , 181–182.
27 .  Ibid., 239, 285.
28 .  Ibid., 30.
29 .  Ibid., 240–242.
30 .  Ibid., 239.
31 .  Ibid., 15, 82.
32 .  Ibid., 161.
33 .  Yann,  Shi’ite Islam , 41.
34 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam, 162–165. Some sources diverge as to the
year of the twelfth imam First Occultation—873 or 874?; but this is a dif-
ference of barely one year. Shiite sources claim 873. For more details on the
Minor Occultation and Major Occultation during the Imamate Period and
not only regarding the twelfth imam, and the Ulama’s power in the ancient
Shiite society, please refer to the fascinating article: Said Amir Arjomand.
“The Crisis of the Imamate and the Institution of Occultation in Twelver
Shiism: A Sociohistorical Perspective,”  International Journal of Middle East
Studies 4, vol. 28 (2009): 491–515.
35 .  Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam, 162–171. For further explanation about
the imam’s purity and his duties among the Shi’i community, see: Allamah
al-Hilli, “Shi’i Theology,” in  Shi’ism: Doctrines, Thoughts, and Spirituality, ed.
Seyyed Hossein Nasr (New York: State Univ. of New York Press, 1988), 91–99.
2 THE REVIVAL OF THE SHI’A AFTER THE QAJARS
1 .  For further detailed information, see: Peter Jackson (ed.),  The Cambridge
History of Iran—The Timurid and Safavid Periods , vol. 6 (Cambridge
University Press, 1986), 191–198, 646–658, 661–663; Michael Axworthy,
“Shi’ism and the Safavids,” in  Iran—Empire of the Mind, A History from
Zoroaster to the Present Day (London: Penguin Books, 2007),  chapter 4
(123–145); Said Amir Arjomand, “The Clerical Estate and the Emergence
of a Shi’ite Hierocracy in Safavid Iran: A Study in Historical Sociology,”
Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient , vol. 28, no. 2 (1985),
169–219; John Foran, “The Long Fall of the Safavid Dynasty: Moving
beyond the Standard Views,”  International Journal of Middle East Studies ,
vol. 24, no. 2 (May 1992), 281–304; Ernest Tucker, “Nadir Shah and the
Ja’fari Madhhab Reconsidered,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 27, no. 1/4, Religion
and Society in Islamic Iran during the Pre-Modern Era (1994), 163–179.
2 .  Peter Avery et al. (eds.),  The Cambridge History of Iran, Volume 7; From Nadir
Shah to the Islamic Republic (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991), 712.
3 .  Axworthy,  Iran—Empire of the Mind , 174.
4 .  Andrew J. Newman, “The Nature of the Akhbari/Usuli Dispute in Late
Safawid Iran,” Part 2: The Conflict Reassessed,  Bulletin of the School of Oriental
and African Studies , University of London, vol. 55, no. 2 (1992), 254.
5 .  Axworthy,  Iran—Empire of the Mind , 174.

NOTES
6 .  Moojan Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations of
Qazvin Family,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 36, no. 3 (September 2003), 317–318.
7 .  Ibid., 712–713; Denis MacEoin, “Orthodoxy and Heterodoxy in
Nineteenth-Century Shi’ism: The Cases of Shaykhism and Babism,”  Journal
of the American Oriental Society , vol. 110, no. 2 (April–June  1990 ), 326;
Juan Cole, “Shi’i Clerics in Iraq and Iran, 1722–1780: The Akhbari-Usuli
Conflict Reconsidered,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 18, no. 1 (Winter  1985 ), 18–23;
Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi,” 320.
8 .  Zackery M. Heern,  Usuli Shi’ism :  The Emergence of an Islamic Reform
Movement in Early Modern Iraq and Iran , dissertation submitted to the fac-
ulty of The University of Utah, Department of History, University of Utah,
August 2011, 49–50. In this chapter we will not discuss the significant socio-
political ramifications of the Usuli doctrine. Heern’s dissertation, among
other respectable books and scholars, deals with this important issue. Our
goal in this chapter is therefore to show the main dispute between the Usulis
and the Akhbaris in order to present the religious debate concerning the
interpretation of the role of the Shi’a and especially the role of the clerics in
the community and politics.
9 .  Mansoor Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,”  Theory and
Society , vol. 15, no. 4 (July  1986 ), 522–523.
10 .  During the Qajar period, the clergy of all currents, especially the Usuliyya,
succeeded in separating Shi’a jurisprudence into two levels: the U’rf, refer-
ring to the customs and practices of a given society; and the Shar’, which
covered civil law.
11 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 714–715.
12 .  Abdul-Hadi Hairi, “The Legitimacy of the Early Qajar Rule as Viewed by
the Shi’i Religious Leaders,”  Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 24, no. 3 (July
1988 ), 271–279.
13 .  Nikki R. Keddie, “Religion and Irreligion in Early Iranian Nationalism,”
Comparative Studies in Society and History , vol. 4, no. 3 (April  1962 ), 289–
292; Ervand Abrahamian, “Oriental Despotism: The Case of Qajar Iran,”
International Journal of Middle East Studies , vol. 5, no. 1 (January  1974 ), 12.
14 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 714–715.
15 .  Mansoor Moaddel, “Shi’i Political Discourse and Class Mobilization in
the Tobacco Movement of 1890–1892,”  Sociological Forum , vol. 7, no. 3
(September 1992), 450–452.
16 .  For further details, see Moaddel’s article: “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in
Iran,”  Theory and Society , vol. 15, no. 4 (July  1986 ), 519–556.
17 .  Moaddel, “Shi’i Political Discourse,” 452.
18 .  Ibid., 465.
19 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 728–731.
20 .  MacEoin, “Orthodoxy and Heterodoxy in Nineteenth-Century Shi’ism,” 329.
21 .  Hairi, “The Legitimacy of the Early Qajar Rule,” 283.
22 .  For further details, see Said Amir Arjomand, “The Ulama’s Tradionalist
Opposition to Parliamentarism: 1907–1909,”  Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 17,
no. 2 (April 1981), 174–190.

NOTES
23 .  Seyed Reza Mousavi, “La religion et le système politique en Iran: étude
comparative des révolutions de 1906 et 1979,”  Canadian Journal of Political
Science/Revue canadienne de science politique , vol. 32, no. 2 (June 1999),
347–353, 356–357, 365; Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in
Iran,” 531; Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 732–734; Fereshte
M. Nouraie, “The Constitutional Ideas of a Shi’ite Mujtahid: Muhammad
Husayn Na’ini,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 8, no. 4 (Autumn  1975 ), 237–239.
24 .  Nouraie, “The Constitutional Ideas of a Shi’ite Mujtahid,” 240.
25 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 737–739.
26 .  H. E. Chehabi,  Iranian Politics and Religious Modernism ;  The Liberation
Movement of Iran Under the Shah and Khomeini (Ithaca: Cornell University
Press, 1990), 16–18.
27 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 740; Gholam Reza Afkhami,  The
Life and Times of the Shah (Los Angles: University of California Press,  2009 ),
21–22.
28 .  Afkhami,  The Life and Times of the Shah , 64–66, 69–72.
29 .  Ibid., 18–19, 204; Soli Shahvar, “Iran, 1925–1946,” in  The Middle East
between World Wars , Book E, Part Two (in Hebrew), ed. Hagai Erlich
(Raanana: The Open University of Israel, 2003), 255–259; David Menashri,
Iran: Between Islam and the West (in Hebrew) (The Ministry of Defense
Publishing, 1996), 91–102; Mohammad H. Faghfoory, “The Ulama-State
Relations in Iran: 1921–1941,”  International Journal of Middle East Studies ,
vol. 19, no. 4 (November  1987 ), 426–428; “The Impact of Modernization on
the Ulama in Iran, 1925–1941,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 26, no. 3/4 (Summer–
Autumn  1993 ), 282–292.
30 .  Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,” 534; Faghfoory, “The
Ulama-State Relations in Iran,” 416–418.
31 .  Afkhami,  The Life and Times of the Shah , 366; Menashri,  Iran: Between
Islam and the West , 94–95; Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in
Iran,” 535.
32 .  Mahmood T. Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari;
An Iranian Theoretican of the Islamic State (New York: RoutledgeCurzon,
2005), 34.
33 .  Amir H. Ferdows, “Khomaini and Fadayan’s Society and Politics,”
International Journal of Middle East Studies , vol. 15, no. 2 (May 1983), 241.
34 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 744–745; Afkhami,  The Life and
Times of the Shah , 81–84; Menshari,  Iran: Between Islam and the West , 104.
35 .  Avery et al.,  The Cambridge History of Iran , 745.
36 .  Perhaps, following Borujerdi’s death in 1961, Khomeini felt less dependent
on the very orthodox current represented by his mentor, for within a short
period of time he changed his views concerning religious activism.
37 .  Yann Richard, “Ayatollah Kashani: Precursor of the Islamic Republic?,” in
Religion and Politics in Iran: Shi’ism from Quietism to Revolution , ed. Nikki
R. Keddie (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1983), 105–106. There is
good reason to assume that the Hojjatiyeh imitated Kashani’s system of mix-
ing religious and secular studies.

NOTES
38 .  For further information about the Fada’iyan’s foundation, see: Farhad
Kazemi, “The  Fada’iyan-e Islam : Fanaticism, Politics and Terror,” in  From
Nationalism to Revolutionary Islam , ed. Amir Arjomand (Albany: State
University of New York Press, 1984), 158–176. Also about its exact year of
foundation, see footnote 1 in ibid., 174.
39 .  Sohrab Behdad, “Islamic Utopia in Pre-Revolutionary Iran; Navvab Safavi
and the Fada’ian-e Eslam,”  Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 33, no. 1 (January
1997), 48–50.
40 .  Elie Kedourie, “The Iraqi Shi’is and their Fate,” in  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , ed. Martin Kramer (Boulder: Westview Press, 1987), 151–152.
41 .  Moojan Momen,  An Introduction to Shi’i Islam (New Haven: Yale University
Press, 1985), 252.
42 .  Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,” 537; Michael M. J. Fischer,
“Becoming Mollah: Reflections on Iranian Clerics in a Revolutionary Age,”
Iranian Studies , vol. 13, no. 1/4 (1980), Iranian Revolution in Perspective, 96.
43 .  Richard, “Ayatollah Kashani,” 120. Theoretically, Borujerdi’s refusal to grant
Mossadegh clerical support stems from his opposition to the latter’s political
direction. See Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,” 538.
44 .  Elena Alekseevna Doroshenko,  Shiitskoe dukhovenstvo v sovremennom Irane
( The Shi’ite Clergy in Modern Iran ) (Moscow: Nauka, 1985), 82.
45 .  David Menashri,  Iran between Islam and the West (Israel: Ministry of
Defence,  1996 ), 109.
46 .  Homa Katouzian,  Mosaddiq and the Struggle for Power in Iran (London: I. B.
Tauris, 1990), 159–160.
47 .  Amir H. Ferdows, “Khomaini and Fadayan’s Society and Politics,”
International Journal of Middle East Studies , vol. 15, no. 2 (May 1983), 243.
48 .  CIA Document: “Analysis of Iranian political situation, topics include: pop-
ular support of Mossadeq’s government; collapse of British position in Iran;
Soviet position in Iran,” Issue date: October 12, 1951.
49 .  Katouzian,  Mosaddiq and the Struggle for Power , 160.
50 .  He claims that this argument is backed by American and British documents.
51 .  Ibid., 160.
52 .  Elgin Groseclose, “Crescent and Sickle; The Revival of Islam and Its
Significance,”  Christian Science Monitor , November 10, 1951, 20.
53 .  Kazemi, “The  Fada’iyan-e Islam ,” 165.
54 .  Doroshenko,  Shiitskoe dukhovenstvo v sovremennom Irane , 82–83.
55 .  Ibid., 82.
56 .  Ibid., 89–90.
57 .  Ibid, p. 93.
58 .  Kazemi, “The  Fada’iyan-e Islam ,” 165.
59 .  R. K. Ramzani,  Revolutionary Iran: Challenge and Response in the Middle
East (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press, 1988), 201; Moaddel, “The Shi’i
Ulama and the State in Iran,” 538.
60 .  Juan R. I. Cole and Nikki R. Keddie (eds.),  Shi’ism and Social Protest
(New Haven: Yale University Press, 1986), 72; Abdulla Ahmad Qasir,
Qaraa fi al-faker al-Siasiya lilImam al-Khumeini (Najaf: Harakat al-Tajdid
wa ul-Istanahadh, 1987), 13, 95–97.

NOTES
61 .  Albion Ross, “Ghavam Says Iran Seeks Oil Accord,”  The New York Times ,
July 19, 1952, 1.
62 .  A. W. Samii, “Falsafi, Kashani and the Baha’is,” research notes in Shaykhi,
Babi and Bahaa’i Studies, vol. 2, no. 5 (August 1998):  http://www.h-net
.org/~bahai/notes/vol2/falsafi.htm (accessed November 13, 2008).
63 .  Albion Ross, “Rioters Challenge New Iran Premier; Army is Called Out,”
The New York Time , July 20, 1952, 1.
64 .  CAB/129/54. H.M. Charge d’Affairs, Tehran, to the Foreign Office, July 28,
1952.
65 .  Albion Ross, “Frail Little Moslem Leader of 80 Holds Balance of Power in
Iran,”  The New York Times , August 2, 1952, 4.
66 .  Ferdows, “Khomaini and Fadayan’s Society and Politics,” 245.
67 .  Polyzoides, “New Crisis Perils Iran Trade Hopes,”  Los Angeles Times , March 3,
1953, 24.
68 .  The Associated Press, “Mossadegh Forces Oust Kashani For New Iranian
Speaker in Feud,”  New York Times , July 2, 1953, 1.
69 .  CAB 129/55—CABINET; Persia: Internal, Political Situation, October 17,
1952.
70 .  CAB 128/25—CABINET; Conclusions of a Meeting of the Cabinet,
December 4, 1952.
71 .  CIA: “Probable Developments in Iran in 1952 in the Absence of an Oil
Settlement,” Secret, National Intelligence Estimate, NIE-46, February 4,
1952. Item Number: IROO274.
72 .  CIA: “Probable Developments in Iran through 1953,” January 9, 1953.
Secret, National Intelligence Estimate, NIE-75/1. Item Number: IROO303.
CIA: Office of Intelligence Research, Division of Research for Near East,
South Asia, and Africa, Report No. 6126. Secret, January 9, 1953. Moyara
de Moraes Ruehsen (July 1993) “Operation ‘Ajax’ Revisited: Iran, 1953,”
Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 29, no. 3, 477.
73 .  CIA: “Probable Developments in Iran through 1955,” Secret, National
Intelligence Estimate, NIE 34–35, December 7, 1954. Item Number:
IROO325.
74 .  Kennett Love, “Moslem Puts Ban on Iran Plebiscite,”  The New York Times ,
August 2, 1953, 19.
75 .  CIA: “Increasing Communist Threat in Iran,” Department of State, Secret,
Office of Intelligence Research, Division of Research for Near East, South
Asia, and Africa, Report No. 5735. January 10, 1952. Issue Date: January 10,
1952, 9.
76 .  CIA: “Probable Developments in Iran through 1953,” Issue Date: January 9,
1953, 2–5.
77 .  CIA: “Iran, Basic Factors Leading to the Nationalization of the Oil Industry
in Iran,” Office of Intelligence Research, Division of Research for Near East,
South Asia, and Africa, Report No. 5683. March 6, 1952, 10.
78 .  National Security Council, Top Secret, “Current Policies of the Government
of the United States of America Relating to the National Security”: Volume I,
Geographical Area Policies: Part V, Middle East—Iran. Issue Date: November
1, 1952, 2.

NOTES
79 .  CIA: “Prospects for Survival of Mossadeq Government,” Report, Secret,
Issue Date: October 14, 1952, 1.
80 .  Department of State, Secret, “Fedayan Islam,” Am Emb Tehran, Despatch
No. 20. July 7, 1951. Issue Date: July 7, 1951, 1–2.
81 .  Department of State, Secret, “Increasing Communist Threat in Iran,” Office
of Intelligence Research, Report No. 5716. November 23, 1951, 8.
82 .  Department of State, Secret, “Luncheon Meeting with Prime Minister
Mosadeq,” Transmittal Memorandum, Dean Acheson, Secretary of State to
the President. Issue Date: October 22, 1951.
83 .  Doroshenko,  Shiitskoe dukhovenstvo v sovremennom Irane , 93.
84 .  Department of State. Confidential. Office of Intelligence Research, Report
No. 4849. January 28, 1949, 110–111. Department of State. Secret, “Fedayan
Islam,” Am Emb Tehran, Despatch No. 20. Issue Date: July 7, 1951, 2.
85 .  Sayed Mohammad Ali Taghavi, “‘Fadaeeyan-i Islam’: The Prototype of
Islamic Hard-liners in Iran,”  Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 40, no. 1 (January
2004), 153–154.
86 .  Joanna De Groot,  Religion, Culture & Politics in Iran, From The Qajars to
Khomeini (London: I. B. Tauris, 2007), 230.
87 .  Axworthy,  Iran—Empire of the Mind , 245.
88 .  A. W. Samii, “Falsafi, Kashani and the Baha’is,” Research Notes in
Shaykhi, Babi and Bahaa’i Studies, vol. 2, no. 5 (August  1998 );  http://www
.h-net.org/~bahai/notes/vol2/falsafi.htm (accessed November 13, 2008).
Suspicions of this can be found in: Mark J. Gasiorowski, “The CIA Looks
Back at the 1953 Coup in Iran,”  Middle Eastern Report , no. 216 (Autumn
2000), 4–5. Katouzian says that it was only Kashani who was bribed by the
Americans.
89 .  Ibid.
90 .  Abbas Milani,  The Persian Sphinx; Amir Abbas Hoveyda and the Riddle of the
Iranian Revolution (Washington: Mage Publication, 2009), 121.
91 .  Venessa Martin,  Creating of an Islamic State (London: I. B. Tauris, 2007),
132; Momen,  An Introduction to Shi’i Islam, 252. The Shiite tendency to
stand aside from historical events probably stems from their role in the
Abbasid revolution, which overthrew the Umayyad Caliphate. At that time
they were employed to attack the Umayyads, but later the new regime took
advantage of them, and they were even persecuted because of their primeval
obsession with restoring the rule of the Prophet’s offspring, the only legiti-
mate regime in their eyes.
92 .  Kennett Love, “Iran’s Crisis Prolonged by Political Maneuvers,”  New York
Times , April 19, 1953, E4.
93 .  Mahmoud Sadri, “Shaikh Mahmud Halabi,”  Encyclopaedia Iranica Online ,
http://www.iranica.com/newsite/ .
94 .  Chehabi,  Iranian Politics and Religious Modernism , 116–117; Martin,
Creating of an Islamic State , 18–19.
95 .  Kennett Love, “Zahedi’s Cabinet Gibes at Kashani,”  The New York Times ,
February 22, 1954, 6.

NOTES
3 THE BAHA’I FAITH AND ITS ORIGINS IN
SHI’A ISLAM AND DESPAIR
1 .  Mansoor Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,”  Theory and
Society , vol. 15, no. 4 (July  1986 ), 525.
2 .  Abbas Amanat,  Resurrection and Renewal—The Making of the Babi Movement
in Iran, 1844–1850 (Ithaca: Cornell University Press,  1989 ), 54–55.
3 .  Moojan Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations
of Qazvin Family,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 36, no. 3 (September 2003),
322–323.
4 .  Denis MacEoin, “Orthodoxy and Heterodoxy in Nineteenth-Century
Shi’ism: The Cases of Shaykhism and Babism,”  Journal of the American
Oriental Society , vol. 110, no. 2 (April–June  1990 ), 325. The Hijra took place
in 622; the twelfth imam disappeared in 873; therefore, according to the
Shi’a, the Hidden Imam should have appeared in 1873.
5 .  Juan R. I. Cole, “Iranian Millenarianism and Democratic Thought in the
19th Century,”  International Journal of Middle East Studies , vol. 24, no. 1
(February 1992), 21.
6 .  Moshe Sharon,  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ; The Most Holy Book
(al-Kitab al-Aqdas), in Hebrew Translation (Jerusalem, 2005), 53–64;
Peter Smith,  An Introduction to the Baha’i Faith (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2008), 3–6.
7 .  Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam, “The Babi-State Conflict at Shaykh Tabarsi,”
Iranian Studies , vol. 35, no. 1/3 (Winter–Summer 2002), 96–102. For fur-
ther details concerning the Babi Movement’s formation, see Abbas Amanat’s
outstanding work,  Resurrection and Renewal , 109–152.
8 .  Some historians assume that the clergy feared losing their influence with
the reappearance of the twelfth imam who would lead the masses by
himself.
9 .  The followers of the Bab interpreted his imprisonment as a reoccurrence of
events in the Mahdi’s life, for he, like his father and grandfather before him,
was imprisoned by the Abbasids.
10 .  Juan R. I. Cole,  Modernity and the Millennium; The Genesis of the Baha’i Faith
in the Nineteenth-Century Middle East (New York: Columbia University
Press, 1998), 26–29; Peter Avery et al. (eds.),  The Cambridge History of Iran,
Volume 7; From Nadir Shah to the Islamic Republic (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1991), 726–729; Nikki R. Keddie, “Religion and Irreligion
in Early Iranian Nationalism,”  Comparative Studies in Society and History ,
vol. 4, no. 3 (April  1962 ), 267–268.
11 .  This thesis was to be developed within Baha’ism who saw Babism as its fore-
runner and wished to unify all religions into one.
12 .  Messengers also spread the Gospel of Christianity and the Druze.
13 .  While the persecution of the Babis by the Qajar regime may make sense,
since Babism wished to replace it by replacing the Qajari rule with a Babi

NOTES
theocracy, the persecution of other sects is less understood because the Sufis
and the Shaykhis did not challenge the regime at all. For further details, see:
Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,” 522–525; John Walbridge,
“The Babi Uprising in Zanjan: Causes and Issues,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 29,
no. 3/4 (Summer–Autumn 1996), 339–362; Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam,
“The Babi-State Conflict at Shaykh Tabarsi,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 35, no. 1/3
(Winter–Summer 2002), 87–112.
14 .  Amanat,  Resurrection and Renewal , 394–404; Baha’i International
Community, “The Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing in Iran,” September
2008, 47–49.
15 .  Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question,” 40.
16 .  This motive is typical of the Shi’a, which is a persecuted religion seeking its
salvation through proselytizing faraway from its cradle.
17 .  Sharon,  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ , 65–81; Smith,  An Introduction ,
4–16.
18 .  The moments of revelation are crucial to the development of prophecy; they
signify the transformation of an ordinary man into “The Chosen,” sent by
God to represent Him on earth, such as Moses, the shepherd, Jesus, the car-
penter, and Muhammad, the merchant.
19 .  Mírzá Hussein-’Alí Núrí’s transforming event can be explained in terms of
his willingness (like Moses facing the burning bush or Muhammad in the
cave) or his compulsory isolation in jail.
20 .  A similar argument concerning the sanctity of the Quran, whether it was cre-
ated by God or was eternal like God himself, raged between the Ash’ariyya
and Mu’tazila.
21 .  Bahá’u’lláh means “Glory of God.”
22 .  Juan R. I. Cole, “Iranian Millenarianism and Democratic Thought in the
19th Century,”  International Journal of Middle East Studies , vol. 24, no. 1
(February 1992), 4.
23 .  Smith,  An Introduction , 16–18. Cole, “Iranian Millenarianism,” 3–6.
24 .  In Arabic numerology, “one” is 19 and can be interpreted either as the one-
ness of God, or as “the one that God will reveal in the right time.”
25 .  Sharon,  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ , 82–91; Smith,  An Introduction ,
23–24; Soli Shahvar,  The Forgotten Schools; The Baha’is and Modern
Education in Iran, 1899–1934 (London: Tauris Academic Studies, 2009), 5;
Cole, “Iranian Millenarianism,” 4.
26 .  Sharon,  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ , 92–98; Cole, “Iranian
Millenarianism,” 6.
27 .  Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing
in Iran,” September 2008, 50.
28 .  For further information, see Moshe Sharon’s book: Moshe Sharon,  The
Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ; The Most Holy Book (al-Kitab al-Aqdas) in
Hebrew Translation (Jerusalem, 2005).
29 .  Sharon,  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ , 106–116; Denis MacEoin,
Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism (London: I. B. Tauris, 1994), 37–69.

NOTES
30 .  On Baha’ism’s attitude to women, see Cole,  Modernity and the Millennium ,
163–187; Janet A. Khan (Janet Adrienne) and Peter Khan,  Advancement of
Women: A Bahá’í Perspective (Baha’i Publication, 2003).
31 .  http://info.bahai.org/article-1–3-2–18.html.
32 .  Sharon,  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ , 112.
4 THE HOJJATIYEH SOCIETY
1 .  Shahrough Akhavi,  Religion and Politics in Contemporary Iran (Albany: State
University of New York Press,  1980 ), 76.
2 .  Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The history of the foun-
dation of the Hojatieh Society) at  http://www.nasirboushehr.com/journal-01
-issue33–398.html . Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question;
Cultural Cleansing in Iran,” September 2008, 51.
3 .  Ibid., 42.
4 .  Moojan Momen,  Introduction to Shi’i Islam (New Haven: Yale University
Press, 1985), 252.
5 .  Mahmood T. Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari; An
Iranian Theoretican of the Islamic State (New York: RoutledgeCurzon, 2005), 34.
6 .  Ibid., 34.
7 .  Even Halabi was never mentioned in this remarkable book even though he
was one of the key figures in the Mashhad seminars and Madrasas.
8 .  Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari , 34.
9 .  Mehrzad Boroujerdi,  Iranian Intellectualls and the West; The Tormented
Triumph of Nativism (New York: Syracuse University Press, 1996), 96;
Behram Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,” 6, in  http://
www.kavehroom.com/books/23years/dashti1.pdf .
10 .  Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,” pp. 11–13; M. J. Michael
Fischer, “Repetitions in the Iranian Revolution,” in  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , ed. Martin Kramer (Boulder: Westview Press, 1987), 96.
11 .  Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,” 9;  Immigration and
Refugee Board of Canada (September 11, 2003), “Iran: Information on the
Hojjatiya (Hojjatiyeh, Hojjatiyeh or Hojjatiyyeh) Society,” IRN41774.E
12 .  Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,” pp. 9, 14–15; Samii Bill,
“Iran va Jahan. Is the Hojjatieh Society Making a Comeback?”  Radio Free
Europe (September 13,  2004 ).
13 .  Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,” p. 24. The claim that
the Hojjatiyeh were founded by the SAVAK is totally incorrect, since the
Hojjatiyeh were established during 1953, while the SAVAK was founded
in 1957. Concerning the foundation of the SAVAK in 1957, see: Nikki R.
Keddie,  Modern Iran; Roots and Results of Revolution , Updated Edition (New
Haven: Yale University Press, 2003), 134; Ervand Abrahamian,  A History of
Modern Iran (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008), 126.

NOTES
14 .  Sharough Vaziri, “Les Groups Dominants et le Jeu Politique Islamique en
Iran” (Switzerland: Centre D’etude et de Documentation Iraniennes, 2000),
2–3; Nazila Ghanea-Hercock, “Ethnic and Religious Groups in the Islamic
Republic of Iran,”  University of London, Institute of Commonwealth Studies ,
October 2004, 9.
15 .  Richard Yann, “Le Rôle du clergé: tendances contradictoires du chi’isme
iranien contemporain,”  Archives de sciences sociales des religions , vol. 28e,
no. 55.1 (January–March 1983), 5–8.
16 .  Political Parties and Groups (from 15th Khordad uprising to the victory
of the Islamic Revolution), in  http://www2.irib.ir/worldservice/imam
/hadith%20bidari/2.htm (accessed November 9, 2008).
17 .  Mansoor Moaddel, “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran,”  Theory and
Society , vol. 15, no. 4 (1986), 539.
18 .  The following resource is a book (probably, a version of the author’s dis-
sertation) based on Baqi’s work and he cites him, occasionally word for
word, in this context and in other issues: Zia’ul-Din, Owliya-Nasab, and
Salman Alavi-Nik,  Jaryan shenaˆsi-ye anjoman-e hojjatiyye (Methodology of
Hojjatiyeh Society) (Qom: Zalal Kowsar, 1375/2006), 12–13.
19 .  Imad al-Din Baqi,  Dar Shenokht hezb Qa’idin-e Zaman (Mowsum Be Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyeh) (in recognition of Qaedin Party—to be known as Hojatieh
Society) (Tehran: Neshar Danesh Eslami, 1362/1984), 28–29;  Tarikhcheh-ye
Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh ;  Qesmat Davam (The history of founda-
tion of Hojjatiyeh Society) :  http://nasirboushehr.com/01/journal456.html .
20 .  Mahmoud Sadri, “Shaikh Mahmud Halabi,”  Encyclopaedia Iranica Online ,
http://www.iranica.com/newsite/ .
21 .  UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, Immigration and Refugee Board
of Canada, “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya Society,” IRN41774.E,
September 11, 2003; Sharough Vaziri, “Les Groupes Dominants et le
Jeu Politique Islamique en Iran” (Switzerland: Centre D’etude et de
Documentation Iraniennes, 2000), 2–3.
22 .  UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, Immigration and Refugee Board of
Canada, “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya Society,” IRN41774.E, 11
September, 2003.
23 .  Sadri, “Shaikh Mahmud Halabi”; Abbas Amanat,  Apocalyptic Islam and
Iranian Shi’ism (London: I. B. Tauris, 2009), 224,  http://www.arja.blogsky
.com/1388/11/21/post-144 .
24 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 30–31.
25 .  Mohamad Tavakoli-Targhi, “Anti-Baha’ism and Islamism in Iran,” in  The
Baha’is of Iran: Socio-historical Studies , eds. Parviz Brookshaw and Seena B.
Fazel (United Kingdom: Taylor Francis Ltd., 2010), 206–212. The article
was originally written in Persian by Mohammad Tavakoli-Targhi, “Baha’i-i
Satizi va Islam-i garay dar Iran,” banyad-i Matalat-i Iran, at  http://fis-iran
.org/fa/irannameh/volxix/anti-bahaiism
26 .  Tavakoli-Targhi, “Anti-Baha’ism and Islamism in Iran,” 206.
27 .  UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency,  Immigration and Refugee Board
of Canada (September 11, 2003); “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya

NOTES
(Hojjatiyeh, Hojjatiyeh or Hojjatiyyeh) Society,” IRN41774.E,  http://www
.unhcr.org/refworld/country,IRBC,IRN,403dd1f914,0.html  (September 11,
2003).
28 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 29–30.
29 .  Following the Islamic Revolution many movements and parties flourished,
among them the  Anjoman-e Imam-e Zaman , which changed its name to
Hojjatiyeh, meaning “followers and adherents.” See Fischer, “Repetitions in
the Iranian Revolution,” 117–132.
30 .  Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The history of foundation
of Hojatieh Society) at  http://www.nasirboushehr.com/journal-01-issue33–398
.html ; H. E. Chehabi,  Iranian Politics and Religious Modernism ;  The Liberation
Movement of Iran Under the Shah and Khomeini (Ithaca: Cornell University
Press, 1990), 127.
31 .  M. J. Michael Fischer, “Repetitions in the Iranian Revolution,” in  Shi’ism,
Resistance and Revolution , ed. Martin Kramer (Boulder: Westview Press,
1987), 127.
32 .  Amanat,  Apocalyptic Islam , 222–225; Oliver Roy,  The Politics of Chaos in the
Middle East (New York: Columbia University Press, 2008), 131. Translated
from French by Ros Schwartz.
33 .  Anoushiravan Ehteshami and Zweiri Mahjoob,  Iran and the Rise of its
Neoconservatives; the Politics of Tehran’s Silent Revolution (London: I. B.
Tauris, 2009), 92.
34 .  Roy,  The Politics of Chaos, 278, n3.
35 .  Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada (September 11, 2003) “Iran:
Information on the Hojjatiya (Hojjatiyeh, Hojjatiyeh or Hojjatiyyeh)
Society,” IRN41774.E
36 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 29–30.
37 .  UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, Immigration and Refugee Board
of Canada, “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya Society,” IRN41774.E,
September 11, 2003.
38 .  Mehdi Abedi and M. J. Michael Fischer, “Autobiographical Stories of Mehdi
Abedi: The Anti-Baha’i Society,” in  Debating Muslims: Cultural Dialogues in
Postmodernity and Tradition , ed. M. J. Michael Fischer (Madison: University
of Wisconsin Press, 1990), 48.
39 .  Ibid., 33.
40 .  Kasra Naji,  Ahmadinejad, the Secret History of Iran’s Radical Leader
(Berkeley: University of California Press, 2008), 15; Abedi and Fischer,
“Autobiographical Stories of Mehdi Abedi,” 48; Baha’i International
Community, “The Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing in Iran,” September
2008, 40. Dean T. Olsen in his book  Perfect Enemy, The Law Enforcement
Manual Islamist Terrorism (Illinois: [?], 2009) says that the Hojjatiyeh
was established in the 1950s, were named the “Charitable Society of the
Mahdi” (Anjoman-e Khayriaya Hujjatiyeh Mahdaviyat), and was led by
Sheikh Mahmud Halabi. Anyway, he mentions that they were extremely
anticommunist, anti-Marxist, and antiatheists but does not mention that
they were anti-Baha’i. He does, however, mention that their main goal was

NOTES
to prepare the world for the Mahdi’s immediate appearance and that chaos
and an apocalypse would hasten the Mahdi’s arrival (331–332). Mahmoud
Hayati,  Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The history of the
foundation of the Hojatieh Society) at  http://www.nasirboushehr.com/01
/journal481.html .
41 .  David Menashri,  Iran in Revolution (Tel Aviv: HaKibutz HaMehuhad,
1988), 62.
42 .  Baqer Moin,  Khomeini, Life of the Ayatollah (London: I. B. Tauris, 1999), 66.
43 .  Ibid., 66–67.
44 .  Amir Taheri,  The Spirit of Alla (London: Hutchinson, 1985), 19;. Menashri,
Iran in Revolution , 62.
45 .  Elgin Groseclose, “Crescent and Sickle; The Revival of Islam and Its
Significance,”  Christian Science Monitor (1951), 20.
46 .  Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada , “Iran: Information on the
Hojjatiya (Hojjatiyeh, Hojjatiyeh or Hojjatiyyeh) Society” (September 11,
2003), IRN41774.E
47 .  Behram Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,” 22.  http://
www.kavehroom.com/books/23years/dashti1.pdf .
48 .  Yann Richard, “Le Rôle du clergé: tendances contradictoires du chi’isme
iranien contemporain,”  Archives de sciences sociales des religions , 28e Année
55.1 (1983), 5–27.
49 .  Amanat,  Apocalyptic Islam , 222.
50 .  Vanessa Martin,  Creating an Islamic State; Khomeini and the Making of a New
Iran (London: I. B. Tauris, 2007), 211.
51 .  Fariba Adelkhah,  Being Modern in Iran (New York: Columbia University
Press, 2000), 92; Anoushiravan Ehteshami and Mahjoob Zweiri,  Iran
and the Rise of its Neoconservatives; the Politics of Tehran’s Silent Revolution
(London: I. B. Tauris, 2009), 64–65.
52 .  Fariba Adelkhah,  Being Modern in Iran (New York: Columbia University
Press, 2000), 92.
53 .  After the revolution Halabi claimed he had communicated with the Hidden
Imam in a dream. (This will be discussed in the chapter dealing with the
confrontation between Halabi and Khomeini.) He probably kept the dream
a secret until the death of Ayatollah Borujerdi, known as the “spokesman”
of the imam, in 1961.  Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh ;
Qesmat Davam (The history of foundation of Hojjatiyeh Society) at  http://
nasirboushehr.com/01/journal456.html .
54 .  http://www.oursouthazerbaijan.com/english_hoj.htm.   Tarikhcheh-ye
Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh ;  Qesmat Davam (The history of founda-
tion of Hojjatiyeh Society) at  http://nasirboushehr.com/01/journal456.html .
55 .  Mahmoud Sadri, “Shaikh Mahmud Halabi,”  Encyclopaedia Iranica Online ,
http://www.iranica.com/newsite/ ; Baha’i International Community, “The
Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing in Iran” (September 2008), 50;
Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh ;  Qesmat Davam (The his-
tory of foundation of Hojjatiyeh Society) at  http://nasirboushehr.com/01
/journal456.html .

NOTES
56 .  Nazila G. Hercock, “Ethnic and Religious Groups In The Islamic Republic
of Iran,” University of London, Institute of Commonwealth Studies (October
2004), 9–10.
57 .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh; Tashkilaty-e Sad Chehreh (Hojatieh Society, a
Hypocritical Society) at  http://mehrabeandishe.blogfa.com/post-42.aspx .
58 .  Mahmoud Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” in  Encyclopaedia Iranica , ed. Ehsan Yarshater
4, vol. XII, 427–428.
59 .  Ibid., 427–428; Bill Samii, “Iran: Resurgence of Religio-Political Society
Raises Concerns,”  Radio Free Europe, Radio Library , July 11, 2006; Ganji
Babak, “Iranian Strategy: Factionalism & Leadership Politics,” Conflict
Studies Research Centre, Middle East Series 07/06,  Defence Academy of the
United Kingdom ( 2007 ), 2–3.
60 .  Ahmad Ashraf and Ervand Abrahamian, “Bazaar and Mosque in Iran’s
Revolution,”  Middle East Research and Information Project ( 1983 ), 18.
61 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 194.
62 .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh; Tashkilaty-e Sad Chehreh (Hojatieh Society, a
Hypocritical Society) at  http://mehrabeandishe.blogfa.com/post-42.aspx .
63 .  Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari , 7.
64 .  Ibid., 9.
65 .  Ibid., 18.
66 .  Ibid., 8.
67 .  Mohammad Reza Ershadi-niya,  Az Madreseh-ye Ma’aref ta Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyyeh va Maktab-e Tafkik (From the School of Ma’aref to the Hojjatiyeh
Society and its Separation Ideology) (Qom: Muwsasa Bustan-e Ketab, 2005),
20–25.
68 .  Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari , 8.
69 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 194.
70 .  Ibid.
71 .  Ibid., 194; Abdulhossein Tavalay ( 2010 )  Hojjatiyyeh binash ya tashakel
(Hojjatiyeh, insight or Society) at  http: //www.boshgoh.net/pages-17231.html .
72 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 194.
73 .  Ershadi-niya,  Az Madreseh-ye Ma’aref ta Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh va Maktab-e
Tafkik , 20–25.
74 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 194.
75 .  Ibid., 38.
76 .  Jerry Guo, “Letter from Tehran: Iran’s New Hard-Liners; Who Is in
Control of the Islamic Republic,”  Foreign Affairs ,  www.foreignaffairs.com
/print/65429 ,  http://www.oursouthazerbaijan.com/english_hoj.htm .
77 .  Abedi and Fischer, “Autobiographical Stories of Mehdi Abedi,” 54.
78 .  Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” 427–428.
79 .  Ibid., 427–428.
80 .  Taghot means “tyrant” and is the word applied by mullahs to the shah’s regime.
81 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 180.
82 .  Ibid., 181; Hayati,  Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The
history of foundation of Hojatieh Society) at  http://www.nasirboushehr
.com/01/journal481.html .

NOTES
83 .  The  Iqan is a book written by Mirza Hosseinali Nuri known as  Bahullah .
84 .  Criticism of  Iqan .
85 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 182–187.
86 .  Ibid., 187–188.
87 .  A beginner was one who had recently been absorbed into the Baha’i faith.
88 .  Ibid., 188–193.
89 .  Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” 427–428;  http://www.oursouthazerbaijan.com/english
_hoj.htm .
90 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 188–193.
91 .  A. W. Samii, “Falsafi, Kashani and the Baha’is”;  http://www.h-net
.org/~bahai/notes/vol2/falsafi.htm (last modified November 13, 2008).
92 .  Behram Choubine, “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955,”  http://www
.kavehroom.com/books/23years/dashti1.pdf .
93 .  Akhavi,  Religion and Politics , 77–78.
94 .  Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing
in Iran,” September 2008, 43–44.
95 .  Caryle Murphy, “U.S. Bahais Denounce Abuses,”  The Washington Post , July
6, 1983, A1.
96 .  International, United Press International, July 27, 1983.
97 .  Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing
in Iran” (September 2008), 44–45.
98 .  It’s very surprising that Baqi, who was the first to write on the Hojjatiyeh,
does not mention their relationship with the SAVAK. The assumption is that
when he published his book (1983) the SAVAK files were still unpublished
and one should assume that he (probably among others) did not know about
such a relationship with the SAVAK. On the other hand, one of the Persian
sources claims that “from the first days of Islamic revolution, Anjoman [the
Hojjatiyeh] in order to destroy the documents of its dependence and close
ties with the SAVAK, targeted the SAVAK offices and destroyed all the docu-
ments. The Islamic republic of Iran’s national documents center was in the
hands of Hojjatiyeh people until 1362[1984].” In  http://www.arja.blogsky
.com/1388/11/21/post-144 . This could explain Baqi’s lack of SAVAK sources.
99 .  “Anjoman-e Hojjatiyeh va Savak,”  http://www.askquran.ir/showthread.php?
t=4615 .
100 .  Anjoman-e Hojjatieh; Tashkilaty-e Sad Chehreh (Hojatieh Society, a Hypocritical
Society)  at   http://mehrabeandishe.blogfa.com/post-42.aspx .   Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyyeh va Savak (Hojatieh Society and the SAVAK [shah’s intelligent
service]) at  http://www.askquran.ir/showthread.php?t=4615; Fatah Gholamy,
Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh va Savak (Hojatieh Society and the SAVAK [shah’s intel-
ligent service]) at  http://www.bashgah.net/pages-550.html (accessed June 21,
2010).
101 .  Zia’ul-Din Owliya-Nasab and Salman Alavi-Nik,  Jaryan shenaˆsi-ye anjo-
man-e hojjatiyye (Methodology of Hojjatiyeh Society) (Qom: Zalal Kowsar,
1375/2006), 120.
102 .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh; Tashkilaty-e Sad Chehreh (Hojatieh Society, a
Hypocritical Society) at  http://mehrabeandishe.blogfa.com/post-42.aspx .

NOTES
103 .  Ibid., 129–130.
104 .  Mokfi Mazyar and Recknagel Charles, “Could Ahmadinejad’s Mix Of
Mysticism and Politics Lead to a Power Grab?,”  Radio Free Europe, Radio
Library , August 5, 2009.
105 .  Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” 427–428.
106 .  http://www.oursouthazerbaijan.com/english_hoj.htm. UNHCR, The UN
Refugee Agency, Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada, “Iran:
Information on the Hojjatiya Society” (September 11, 2003) IRN41774.E.
Muhtashemy Pur: Pusht Sar Tamam Fateneh-hay-e Ke Rakh Dadeh, Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyyeh Ra my-binam (Hojjatiyeh Society is behind of (cause of) all
intrigues) at  http://www.parlemannews.ir/?n=8522 .
107 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 35.
108 .  Ibid., 198–201.
5 DANGER AHEAD: CHALLENGING KHOMEINI
1 .  Moojan Momen,  An Introduction to Shi’i Islam, The History and Doctrines of
Twelver Shi’ism (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1985), 290.
2 .  Ibid., 291.
3 .  Said Amir Arjomand, “History, Structure, and Revolution in the Shi’ite
Tradition in Contemporary Iran,”  International Political Science Review ,
vol. 10, no. 2 (1989), 113.
4 .  Ibid., 292.
5 .  Ibid., 293–296.
6 .  “Mullahs Divided; Right-Wingers vs. Khomeini,”  Time Magazine , Section:
World; Iran (December 7,  1981 ), 49.
7 .  Shireen T. Hunter, “Iran’s New Power Struggle,”  The Christian Science
Monitor (July 27, 1983), 22.
8 .  Eric Hooglund, “The Gulf  War and the Islamic Republic,”  Middle East
Research and Information Project (MERIP) , no. 125/126 (July–September
1984), 33.
9 .  “Holier than Khomeini,”  The Economist , Section: International (February
19, 1983), 50; Hunter, “Iran’s New Power Struggle,” 22.
10 .  Ahmad Kazemi Moussavi, “The Establishment of the Position of Marja’iyyt-i
Taqlid in the Twelver-Shi’i Community,”  Iranian Studies , vol. 18, no. 1
(Winter  1985 ), 35–38.
11 .  Mahmood T. Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari;
An Iranian Theoretican of the Islamic State (New York: RoutledgeCurzon,
2005), 7.
12 .  Ibid., 123–125.
13 .  Hamid Dabashi,  Islamic Liberation Theology: Resisting the Empire (London:
Taylor & Francis Ltd, 2008), 46. For further details, see David Menashri,
Iran in Revolution (in Hebrew) (Tel Aviv: Hakibutz Hamehuhad, 1988),
55–57.

NOTES
14 .  Hamid Algar,  Governance of the Jurist , The Institute for Compilation and
Publication of Imam Khomeini’s Works, International Affairs Division
(Tehran, [?]), 4; Ahmad Kazemi Moussavi, “The Establishment of the
Position of Marja’iyyt-i Taqlid in the Twelver-Shi’i Community,”  Iranian
Studies , vol. XVIII, no. 1 (Winter 1985), 40–44; Mehran Kamrava,  Iran’s
Intellectual Revolution (Cambridge, 2008), 106–107; Moussavi, “The
Establishment of the Position of Marja’iyyt-i Taqlid,” 40.
15 .  Moussavi, “The Establishment of the Position of Marja’iyyt-i Taqlid,”
41–44. It seems that Khomeini saw the replacement of the secular regime by
the clergy while the Hojjatiyeh saw the clergy as equal to the regime.
16 .  Bill Samii, “Iran: Resurgence of Religio-Political Society Raises Concerns,”
Radio Free Europe, Radio Library , July 11, 2006; David Menashri, “Iran
(Jumhuriyye Islamiyye Iran),” in  Middle East Contemporary Survey , The
Shiloh Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies, vol. VI, ed. Colin
Lugum (1981–1982), 535–537; Mehdi Moslem,  Factional Politics in Post-
Khomeini Iran (Syracuse: Syracuse Univcersity Press, 2002), 59–60.
17 .  Moslem,  Factional Politics in Post-Khomeini Iran , 60, 269.
18 .  Menashri, “Iran (Jumhuriyye Islamiyye Iran),” 62.
19 .  BBC, Literaturnaya Gazeta: “‘Islamic Despotism’ in Iran,” SU/7372/A4/1,
June 29, 1983.
20 .  Moslem,  Factional Politics in Post-Khomeini Iran , 59–60; G. H. Jansen,
“Iran’s Divided Mullahs Pursue a Zigzag Path on Internal Reform,”  Los
Angeles Times (September 16, 1984), E2.
21 .  Sami Zubaida, “An Islamic State? The Case of Iran,”  Middle East Research
and Information Project (MERIP) , no. 153 (July–August 1988), 6; Moslem,
Factional Politics in Post-Khomeini Iran , 60.
22 .  Eric Hooglund, “The Gulf War and the Islamic Republic,”  Middle East Research
and Information Project (MERIP) , no. 125/126 (July–September 1984), 33.
23 .  Sharough Vaziri, “Les Groupes Dominants et le Jeu Politique Islamique en
Iran” (Switzerland: Centre D’etude et de Documentation Iraniennes, 2000),
2–3; John von Heyking, “Iran’s President and the Politics of the Twelfth
Imam,” Ashbrook Center for Public Affairs at Ashland University:  http://
www.ashbrook.org/publicat/guest/05/vonheyking/twelfthimam.html
(accessed October 25, 2010).
24 .  World; Iran, “Mullahs Divided; Right-wingers vs. Khomeini,”  Time
Magazine (December 7, 1981), 49.
25 .  Claude van England, “Factions in Iran Ready for Power Struggle after
Khomeini,”  The Christian Science Monitor (October 12,  1982 ), 3.
26 .  Claude van England, “Iran Finds Its Self-Isolation Gets a Cool Reception
Abroad,”  The Christian Science Monitor (October 27,  1982 ), 5.
27 .  “Iran’s Persecution of Bahai’s,”  The Christian Science Monitor (July 14,
1983), 24.
28 .  International, “Iran; Holier than Khomeini,”  The Economist (February 19,
1983), 50.
29 .  Thom Workman,  The Social Origins of the Iran-Iraq War , PhD Candidate
Paper (Ontario: Centre for International and Strategic Studies: York
University, March 1991), 24.

NOTES
30 .  IRNA, “Denunciation of Bazargan’s Freedom Movement,” ME/7154/A/1,
October 12,  1982 .
31 .  Maziar Behrooz, “Factionalism in Iran under Khomeini,”  Middle Eastern
Studies , vol. 27, no. 4 (October  1991 ), 601; R. W. Apple Jr., “Khomeini’s
Grip Appears at Its Tightest,”  The New York Times (November 21,  1982 ), 1.
32 .  William J. Olson, “The Succession Crisis in Iran,”  The Washington
Quarterly , vol. 6, no. 3 (Summer 1983), 156–[?]. Mahdavi-Kani replaced
Raja’i as president from August 30, 1981, to October 13, 1981, and served
as prime minister from September 2, 1981, to October 31, 1981, instead
of Mohammad-Javad Bahonar who was assassinated. He was replaced
as prime minister by Mir-Hossein Moussavi, and as president by Ali
Khamene’i.
33 .  Vaziri, “Les Groupes Dominants et le Jeu Politique Islamique en Iran,” 2–3.
34 .  Fred Halliday, “Year IV of the Islamic Republic,”  Middle East Research and
Information Project—MERIP (March–April  1983 ), 4.
35 .  John Kifner, “Khomeini Faction Challenged by More Conservative Group,”
The New York Times (April 13,  1982 ), A1.
36 .  Geoffrey Godsell, “Resolution of Iran’s Power Struggle Hinges on Outcome
of Iran-Iraq War,”  The Christian Science Monitor (May 12,  1982 ), 7.
37 .  Barry Rubin, “Iran, the Ayatollah, and U.S. Options,”  The Washington
Quarterly , vol. 6, no. 3 (Summer  1983 ), 144–152.
38 .  Imad al-Din Baqi,  Dar Shenokht hezb Qa’idin-e Zaman (Mowsum Be
Anjoman-e Hojjatiyeh) (In recognition of Qaedin Party [to be known as
Hojatieh Society]) (Tehran: Neshar Danesh Eslami, 1362/1984), 125–126.
39 .  Jansen, “Iran’s Divided Mullahs Pursue a Zigzag Path,” E2.
40 .  BBC, Free Voice of Iran, ME/7371/A/1 (June 28, 1983).
41 .  Godsell, “Resolution of Iran’s Power Struggle,” 7; Claude van England,
“Khomeini Shifts to Political Sidelines,”  The Christian Science Monitor
(September 4, 1984), 13.
42 .  Hunter, “Iran’s New Power Struggle,” 22.
43 .  Jansen, “Iran’s Divided Mullahs Pursue a Zigzag Path,” E2.
44 .  Youssef M. Ibrahim, “Piety and Power; Iran’s Clerics Tighten Grip by
Instilling Islam in Every Detail of Life,”  The Wall Street Journal (December 1,
1982 ), 1.
45 .  John Kifner, “Khomeini Faction Challenged by More Conservative Group,”
The New York Times (April 13,  1982 ), A1.
46 .  Jonathan C. Randal, “Iran’s Clergy Divided By Succession Battle,”  The
Washington Post (April 16,  1982 ), A20.
47 .  Assef Bayat, “Workers’ Control after the Revolution,”  Middle East Research
and Information Project—MERIP (March–April  1983 ), 20.
48 .  Assef Bayat,  Workers and Revolution in Iran (London: Zed Books Ltd, 1987),
156; Assef Bayat, “Labor and Democracy in Post-Revolutionary Iran,” in
Post-Revolutionary Iran , eds. Hooshang Amirahmadi and Manoucher Parvin
(London: Westview Press, 1988), 51.
49 .  Bayat,  Workers and Revolution in Iran , 192 (n13).
50 .  BBC, Radio Iran, “Iranian Prime Minister on the Economy: ‘Dark Gangs’
in the Bazaar,” ME/7383/A/1 (July 12, 1983).

NOTES
51 .  Arjomand, “History, Structure, and Revolution in the Shi’ite Tradition,” 113.
52 .  BBC Hanley, Free Voice of Iran, ME/7371/A/1 (June 28, 1983).
53 .  Charles J., “Militant Iranians Prosecute Bahais,”  Los Angeles Times
(September 21, 1980), 4.
54 .  Mahmoud Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” in  Encyclopaedia Iranica , vol. XII, Fascicle 4,
edited by Ehsan Yarshater, 427–428.
55 .  Vaziri, “Les Groupes Dominants et le Jeu Politique Islamique en Iran,”
2–3; International, “Iran; Holier than Khomeini,”  The Economist (February
19, 1983), 50; Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question;
Cultural Cleansing in Iran” (September 2008), 40.
56 .  Samii, “Iran: Resurgence of Religio-Political Society Raises Concerns.”
57 .  Geoffrey Cameron, “The Denial of Higher Education to the Baha’is of
Iran,” published as: “Baha’is in Iran,” Oxford Forum, vol. 7, ( 2007 ):  http://
www.theoxfordforum.com/latest_issu.html .
58 .  BBC, Moscow in Persian, “Hojjatiyeh members ‘CIA Fifth Column,’”
SU/7456/A4/1 (October 5, 1983).
59 .  Reuters, “Iranians Dissolve Communist Party,”  The New York Times (May 5,
1983), A1.
60 .  International, “Iran; Holier Than Khomeini,”  The Economist (February 19,
1983), 50.
61 .  BBC, National Voice of Iran (in Persian), “Advice to Iranian Revolution
Guards,” ME/7390/A/7 (July 20, 1983); Hunter, “Iran’s New Power
Struggle,” 22; BBC, Soviet Television, “US Links with Iran,” Su/7409/A4/3
(August 11, 1983).
62 .  For further details regarding the Hojjatiyeh names, see  chapter four in this
volume.
63 .  Michael M. J. Fischer, “Repetitions in the Iranian Revolution,” in  Shi’ism,
Resistance and Revolution , ed. Martin Kramer (Boulder: Westview Press,
1987), 128.
64 .  Two attitudes: one, the Mahdi will return when the world is in a state of
chaos, the other, it is necessary to create artificial chaos.
65 .  Vali Nasr,  The Shia Revival; How Conflicts within Islam Will Shape the Future
(New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2007), 133.
66 .  Kasra Naji,  Ahmadinejad, The Secret History of Iran’s Radical Leader
(Berkeley: University of California Press, 2008), 15.
67 .  Fischer, “Repetitions in the Iranian Revolution,” 128.
68 .  Vanessa Martin,  Creating an Islamic State; Khomeini and the Making of a New
Iran (London: I. B. Tauris, 2007), 121.
69 .  Fariba Adelkhah,  Being Modern in Iran (New York: Columbia University
Press, 2000), 93.
70 .  Ibid.
71 .  Baqer Moin,  Khomeini, Life of the Ayatollah (London: I. B. Tauris, 1999),
254–256.
72 .  Ibid., 256.
73 .  Ayatollah Halabi’s letter to Khomeini, 6–8 Farvardin 1361 (March 26–28,
1982 ).

NOTES
74 .  Moin,  Khomeini, Life of the Ayatollah , 256.
75 .  Menashri,  Iran in Revolution , 139; Mahmoud Hayati,  Tarikhcheh-ye
Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The history of the foundation of the
Hojatieh Society):  http://www.nasirboushehr.com/01/journal481.html .
76 .  Menashri,  Iran in Revolution , 140.
77 .  Baqi,  Dar Shenokht , 201–205.
78 .  Amir Taheri,  The Spirit of Alla (London: Hutchinson, 1985), 191.
79 .  Joanna De Groot,  Religion, Culture & Politics in Iran, from The Qajars to
Khomeini (London: I. B. Tauris, 2007), 58.
80 .  Taheri,  The Spirit of Alla , 192.
81 .  Ibid., 285.
82 .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh; Tashkilaty-e Sad Chehreh (Hojjatiyeh Society, a
Hypocritical organization):   http://mehrabeandishe.blogfa.com/post-42.aspx .
83 .  Ibid.
84 .  http://www.tabnak.ir/fa/news/130960/ﺣﺠﺘﻴﻪ-ﻭ-ﺍﻳﺮﺍﻧﯽ-ﻣﮑﺘﺐ-ﺭﺍﺑﻄﻪ-ﺍﺯ-ﺍﻓﺮﻭﻍ-ﺍﺭﺯﻳﺎﺑﯽ
85 .  Eric Hooglund, “The Gulf War and the Islamic Republic,”  Middle East Research
and Information Project (MERIP) no. 125/126 (July–September 1984), 33.
86 .  BBC, “The ‘So-called Islamic Association,’”  National Voice of Iran (in
Persian), ME/7061/A/8 (June 25,  1982 ).
87 .  BBC, National Voice of Iran (in Persian), “Comparison of Persecution under
the Shah and Khomeyni,” ME/7297/A/9 (March 29, 1983).
88 .  “Iranian Leader Worried about Disunity among Ruling Clergy,”  Xinhua
General News Service (July 20, 1983), Item No: 072029; Samii, “Iran:
Resurgence of Religio-Political Society Raises Concerns.”
89 .  BBC,  Tehran home service , “‘American-Style Islam the Greatest Enemy’ of
Iranian Revolution,” ME/7391/A/1 (July 21, 1983).
90 .  BBC, “Pro-Western Faction Reported within Iranian Leadership,”  National
Voice of Iran (in Persian), ME/7756/A/1 (September 24, 1984).
91 .  BBC, Radio Iran, “Interior Minister’s Speech Disrupted,” ME/7386/A/1
(July 15, 1983).
92 .  David Menashri, “Iran (Jumhuriyye Islamiyye Iran),” in  Middle East
Contemporary Survey , The Shiloh Center for Middle Eastern and African
Studies, vol. VII, ed. Colin Lugum ( 1982 –1983), 519–521.
93 .  Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” 427–428.
94 .  Ibid.; Baha’i International Community, “The Baha’i Question; Cultural
Cleansing in Iran” (September 2008), 50;  http://www.oursouthazerbaijan
.com/english_hoj.htm ; Mohammad Mohaddessin,  Islamic Fundamentalism,
the New Global Threat (Washington: Seven Locks Press, 1993), 57.
95 .  Sadri, “Hojjatiya,” 427–428; Baha’i International Community, “The
Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing in Iran” (September 2008), 50:  http://
www.oursouthazerbaijan.com/english_hoj.htm ;  Mohaddessin,   Islamic
Fundamentalism , 57.
96 .  Martin,  Creating an Islamic State , 55, 150.
97 .  Taqia— hiding religion or opinion in times of danger.
98 .  BBC, “Iran Majlis ratifies Draft Bill On Non-Profit Making Schools,”
Tehran home service, ME/0084/A/1 (February 25, 1988).

NOTES
99 .  BBC,  Voice of the Kaviyani Banner of Iran , ME/0443/A/1 (April 1989).
100 .  Ibid.
101 .  Mazyar Mokfi and Charles Recknagel, “Could Ahmadinejad’s Mix of
Mysticism and Politics Lead to a Power Grab?,”  Radio Free Europe, Radio
Library (August 5, 2009); Babak Ganji, “Iranian Strategy: Factionalism &
Leadership Politics,” Conflict Studies Research Centre, Middle East Series
07/06,  Defence Academy of the United Kingdom (March  2007 ), 4–5. See fur-
ther details in  chapter six .
102 .  Baqer Moin,  Khomeini, Life of the Ayatollah (London: I. B. Tauris, 1999),
256.
103 .  UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, Immigration and Refugee Board
of Canada, “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya Society,” IRN41774.E
(September 11, 2003).
104 .  Mahmood T. Davari,  The Political Thought of Ayatullah Murtaza Mutahhari;
An Iranian Theoretican of the Islamic State (New York: RoutledgeCurzon,
2005), 7.
105 .  Bill Samii, “Iran va Jahan. Is the Hojjatieh Society Making a Comeback?,”
Radio Free Europe (September 13, 2004).
106 .  “Shi’ite supremacists emerge from Iran’s Shadows,”  Asia Times Online
(September 9, 2005):  http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/GI09Ak01
.html (accessed October 25, 2010).
107 .  Samii, “Iran va Jahan.”
108 .  http://www.arja.blogsky.com/1388/11/21/post-144.
109 .  Samii, “Iran va Jahan.”
110 .  Asia Times , “Shi’ite Supremacists Emerge from Iran’s Shadows from a Special
Correspondent” (September 9, 2005).
111 .  BBC, “E’temad” website (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran Press: Senior Cleric
Comments on ‘American Islam’” (September 18, 2005);  Muhtashemy Pur:
Pusht Sar Tamam Fateneh-hay-e Ke Rakh Dadeh, Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh Ra
my-binam (Hojatieh Society is behind of [cause of] all intrigues):  http://
www.parlemannews.ir/?n=8522 .
112 .  BBC, “Aftab-e Yazd” website (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran Press: Senior
Politician Criticizes Some Reformists” (August 26, 2006).
113 .  BBC, “Kayhan” website (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran Press: Letter Defends
Reformist Cleric Who Attacked Hardline Ayatollah” (London: September
4, 2006); “Resalat” (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran Press: Commentary Defends
Mesbah against Claim of being ‘Sect’ Leader” (August 29, 2006).
114 .  BBC, “E`temad” website (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran Press.”
6 THE EVOLUTION OF EXTREMISM
1 .  Sharough Vaziri, “Les Groupes Dominants et le Jeu Politique Islamique en
Iran” (Switzerland: Centre D’etude et de Documentation Iraniennes, 2000),
2–3.

NOTES
2 .  Ibid.
3 .  Ze’ev Maghen, “Occultation in Prepetuum: Shi’ite Eschatology and
the Iranian Nuclear Crisis,” Institute for Policy and Strategy (Herzliya,
2007), 25.
4 .  Ibid.
5 .  Middle East News Items , “Mahdaviyat Group another Scapegoat” (November
29, 1999).
6 .  Abbas Amanat,  Apocalyptic Islam and Iranian Shi’ism (London: I. B. Tauris,
2009), 223.
7 .  BBC, Iran News Agency, “Information Ministry Says it has Crushed
Extremist Group Plotting to Kill President” (November 27, 1999), ME/
D3703/MED.
8 .  UNHCR, The UN Refugee Agency, Immigration and Refugee Board of
Canada, “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya Society” (September 11, 2003),
IRN41774.E.
9 .  Ibid.
10 .  Middle East News Items , “Mahdaviyat Group Another Scapegoat” (November
29, 1999);  Associated Press Worldstream , “Iranian Authorities Arrest Group
Suspected of Planning Assassination” (November 25, 1999);  Agence France
Presse—English , “Assassination Plot against President Smashed: Iran”
(November 25, 1999);  Los Angeles Times , “Iran Says It Thwarted Plot To Kill
Khatami” (November 26, 1999), 36; BBC,  Iran News Agency , “Information
Ministry Says it has Crushed Extremist Group Plotting to Kill President”
(November 27, 1999), ME/D3703/MED.
11 .  BBC, Iran News Agency (Jan 7, 1999) ‘MKO Group Reportedly Claims
Responsibility for Assassination Attempt’, ME/D3426/MED.
12 .  The Iran Brief , “Messianic Group Said to Be Behind Assassination” (May 3,
1999);  Associated Press Worldstream , “Iran Blames Failed Assassination
Attempt on Secretive Group” (April 24, 1999).
13 .  Agence France Presse—English , “Iran Blames Fundamentalist Group for
Attack on Judicial Official” (April 24, 1999); BBC,  Iran News Agency ,
“Guards Commander Blames Extremist Shi’i Group For bid to Kill Judicial
Official” (April 24, 1999), ME/D3518/MED;  The Record (Bergen County,
NJ), “Messianic Group Blamed for Attack On Judge in Iran” (April 24,
1999), A17;  Chicago Tribune , “Cleric’s Kin Arrested For Attack on Judge”
(April 24, 1999), 15; BBC,  Tehran Times , “Iranian Paper Says Razini’s assail-
ant Extradited from UAE” (August 20, 1999), ME/D3618/MED.
14 .  Middle East News Items , “Mahdaviyat Group Another Scapegoat.”
15 .  Maghen, “Occultation in Prepetuum,” 26; italic in the source.
16 .  Ibid., p. 25.
17 .  Said Amir Arjomand,  Turban for the Crown: The Islamic Revolution in Iran
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989), 157–158.
18 .  Mohammad Reza Ershadi-niya,  Az Madreseh-ye Ma’aref ta Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyyeh va Maktab-e Tafkik (From the School of Ma’aref to the Hojjatiyeh
Society and Its Separation Ideology) (Qom: Muwsasa Bustan-e Ketab,
2005), 20–25.

NOTES
19 .  “Second of Khordad Frond” is the date when Khatami won the presidential
elections in 1997.
20 .  BBC, Iranian Newspaper Hamshari (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran: Ayatollah
Mesbah-Yazdi Says Islamic Ruler ‘Appoints’ the President” (December 7,
1998).
21 .  The Washington Post , “Iran’s Khatemi Asks for Tolerance of Free Expression”
(November 26,  1998 ), A51.
22 .  Associated Press Worldstream , “Khomeini Never Intended to Have Rushdie
Killed, Cleric Says” (August 26, 1999);  The Iran Brief , “Rafsanjani to
Succeed Khamene’i?” (October 4, 1999); BBC, Voice of the Islamic Republic
of Iran, “Iran: Yazdi Urges Judiciary to ‘Take Action’ against ‘Mercenary
Writers’” (September 18, 1999).
23 .  Meed Quarterly Report- Iran , “Iran: Political Outlook” (November 5, 1999), 5;
Meed Quarterly Report—Iran , “Iran: Political Outlook” (October 26, 1999).
24 .  Mideast Mirror , “Iran Reformists Shoot for ‘Another Second of Khordad’”
(February 11, 2000), vol. 14, no. 29.
25 .  Arya newspaper, Tehran, reprinted in Keyhan, London edition, no. 794,
February 10, 2000.
26 .  Susan Sachs, “Runoff Voting in Iran Tests Majority Hope of Reformers”
(May 6, 2000),  The New York Times , 6.
27 .  BBC, Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran, “Iran: Yazdi Urges Judiciary
to ‘Take Action’ against ‘Mercenary Writers’”; Ann Elizabeth Mayer, “The
Universality of Human Rights: Lessons from the Islamic Republic; Iran,”
Social Research , vol. 67, no. 2 (June 22,  2000 ), 519.
28 .  BBC, Jomhuri-ya Eslami’ website (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran: Paper Links
CIA Director’s Comments to ‘Attacks’” against Mesbah-Yazdi” (February
5, 2000);  Agence France Presse—English , “Iranian Conservative Claims
CIA Infiltrated Government” (January 27, 2000); Metthew Mcallester,
“Cartoonist Draws Political Heat Jailed, Banned for Being Critical of
Iranian Cleric” (February 17,  2000 ),  Newsday , A22.
29 .  Agence France Presse—English, “Iranian Conservative Claims CIA Infiltrated
Government” (January 27, 2000).
30 .  BBC, “Resalat” (Tehran, in Persian), “Iran: Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi Vows to
Continue Fight against USA” (October 18, 2000).
31 .  Kasra Naji,  Ahmadinejad, the Secret History of Iran’s Radical Leader (Berkeley:
University of California Press, 2008), 15.
32 .  Ibid., 46, 80, 265–266; Mazyar Mokfi, Charles Recknagel, “Could
Ahmadinejad’s Mix Of Mysticism and Politics Lead to A Power Grab?”:
http://www.rferl.org/content/Could_Ahmadinejads_Mix_Of_Mysticism
_And_Politics_Lead_To_A_Power_Grab/1793312.html (August 5, 2009);
“The Return of the Hojatieh”:  http://bahairants.com/the-return-of-the
-hojatieh-81.html (December 14, 2005).
33 .  Shimon Shapira and Dan Diker, “Iran’s Second Islamic Revolution,” in  Iran,
Hizbullah, Hamas, and the Global Jihad: A New Conflict Paradigm for the
West (Jerusalem: Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, 2007):  http://jcpa.org
/text/iran_page_44–61.pdf : 44, 48, 56–57, 59. Following the relevant notes

NOTES
inside this research (3, 102, 103, 105, and 122) does not bring to the sur-
face sufficient facts to reveal that neither the Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi nor
President Ahmadinejad are members or were members of the Hojjatiyeh.
Only one source, albeit nonacademic and very affiliated with the Baha’is,
suggests that they were members and are due to try to implement the
Hojjatiyeh’s methods inside Iranian politics especially in regard to all that is
related to creating chaos in order to hasten the arrival of the Hidden Imam.
This is a claim that is not true and has no evidence in the sources and history
of the Hojjatiyeh.
34 .  The cybernetic atmosphere is totally packed with these assessments and
“must read” information. We cannot be sure of both of the assessments—
that Yazdi and Ahmadinejad are or are not members of the Hojjatiyeh.
We can only assume from their deeds whether they are close to employing
any Hojjatiyeh methods and still this will only be an assessment and not
factual deeds. Moreover, their deeds can easily confuse us with the numer-
ous societies and organizations that we can assume Yazdi-Ahmadinejad is
related to.
35 .  Naji,  Ahmadinejad , 58.
36 .  Ibid., 98.
37 .  Afshin Valinejad, “Iran’s Leading Journalist Says Former Intelligence
Minister Ordered Murder of Dissidents” (November 30,  2000 ),  Associated
Press Worldstream .
38 .  Anoushiravan Ehteshami and Mahjoob Zweiri,  Iran and the Rise of its
Neoconservatives; the Politics of Tehran’s Silent Revolution (London: I. B.
Tauris, 2009), 65.
39 .  Naji,  Ahmadinejad , 92.
40 .  BBC, Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran network (in Persian), “Pilgrims
Perform Ceremonies in Mina despite Saudi Obstruction” (May 26, 1994),
ME/2006/MED.
41 .  BBC, Islamic Republic News Agency, “Judiciary Chief Comments on
Source of Emulation, Prisons and the Pope’s Remarks” (December 8, 1994),
ME/2173/MED.
42 .  Naji,  Ahmadinejad , 92.
43 .  For further details, see ibid., 93–98.
44 .  Anoushiravan and Zweiri,  Iran and the Rise of its Neoconservatives , 64–65.
45 .  BBC, “Iran Majlis Ratifies Draft Bill on Non-Profit-Making Schools,”
Tehran Home Service, The Middle East, ME/0084/A/1, February 25, 1988.
46 .  Associated Press Worldstream , “Iranian Authorities Arrest Group Suspected
of Planning Assassination” (November 25, 1999);  Agence France Presse—
English , “Assassination Plot against President Smashed: Iran” (November
25, 1999);  Los Angeles Times , “Iran Says It Thwarted Plot to Kill Khatami”
(November 26, 1999), 36; BBC, Iran News Agency, “Information Ministry
Says it has Crushed Extremist Group Plotting to Kill President” (November
27, 1999), ME/D3703/MED; Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Middle
East News Items, “Mahdaviyat Group Another Scapegoat” (November 29,
1999).

NOTES
CONCLUSIONS
1 .  The ideology of Ayatollah Salihi was supported by Ayatollah Montazeri who
was a candidate to replace Khomeini. Montazeri was stripped of this can-
didacy because of his statements against the repressive methods employed
against the Islamic regime’s opponents, and probably not due to unwel-
come remarks against the idea of the “Velayat Faqih” led by Khomeini.
For more about Montazeri and the question of Khomeini’s inheritance, see
Saskia Gieling, “The Marja’iya in Iran and the Nomination of Khamene’i
in December 1994,”  Middle Eastern Studies , vol. 33, no. 4 (October 1997),
777–787. And also David Menashri, “‘The Rule of the Clergyman’ in
Iran Standing the Test of Post-revolution Criticism,” in  Iran, Anatomy of a
Revolution (in Hebrew), eds. David Menashri and Leora Hendelman-Baavur
(Tel Aviv, 2009), 32–33. On the Usuliyya and Akhbariyya Schools, see
Ahmad Kazemi Moussavi, “The Establishment of the Position of Marja’iyyt-i
Taqlid in the Twelver-Shi’i Community,”  Iranian Studies , vol. XVIII, no. 1
(Winter 1985), 35–51. And also Mohammad Ali Amir-Moezzi, “Remarques
sur les critères d’authenticité du hadîth et l’autorité du juriste dans le shi’isme
imamate,”  Studia Islamica , no. 85 (1997), 5–39.
2 .  The Ayatollah Khomeini filled this criterion since he was a Sayyid, which is
in fact a descendant of the Prophet.
3 .  Therefore, the Shi’a preserve a deep resentment toward the Baha’i, who vir-
tually cancelled religious worship and the need for clerics.
4 .  The entrance of Russia and Britain into Persian territory, together with the
weakness and suppleness of the Qajar government, led the same powers to
reach political and economic management of the country, which inevita-
bly led to religious antagonism. Among the events in this period were the
Tobacco Rebellion (1897) and the Constitutional Revolution (1906–1907).
5 .  A democratic term, but at this stage, it can be a confusing term in itself.
6 .  Anoushiravan Ehteshami and Zweiri Mahjoob,  Iran and the Rise of its
Neoconservatives; the Politics of Tehran’s Silent Revolution (London: I. B.
Tauris, 2009), 65.

Bibliography
Books in English
Abrahamian ,  Ervand .  A History of Modern Iran. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press,  2008 .
Adelkhah ,  Fariba .  Being Modern in Iran. New York: Columbia University Press,
2000 .
Afkhami ,  Gholam R.  The Life and Times of the Shah. Berkeley: University of
California Press,  2009 .
Akhavy ,  Shahrough.  Religion and Politics in Contemporary Iran; Clergy-State
Relations in the Pahlavi period. Albany: State University of New York Press,
1980 .
Amanat ,  Abbas .  Apocalyptic Islam and Iranian Shi’ism. London: I. B. Tauris,
2009 .
——— .  Resurrection and Renewal—The Making of the Babi Movement in Iran,
1844–1850 . Ithaca: Cornell University Press,  1989 .
Arjomand ,  Said Amir .  The Shadow of God and the Hidden Imam; Religion, Political
Order, and Social Change in Shi’ite Iran from the Beginning to 1890. Chicago:
The University of Chicago,  1984.
Axworthy ,  Michael .  Iran, Empire of the Mind—A History from Zoroaster to the
Present Day . London: Penguin Books,  2007.
Baqir ,  Muhammad bin Muhammad Taqi bin  Maqsud .  Bihar al-Anwar al-Jama’t
lildarar Akhbar al-Imat al-Athar . Taba’t Tehran: Dar al-kitab al-Islamia,  1698.
Bayat ,  Assef .  Workers and Revolution in Iran . London: Zed Books Ltd,  1987.
Boroujerdi ,  Mehrzad .  Iranian Intellectuals and the West; The Tormented Triumph of
Nativism . New York: Syracuse University Press,  1996.
Chapin  Helen , ed.  Iran, a Country Study. Library of Congress: Federal Research
Division,  1989.
Chehabi ,  H. E.  Iranian Politics and Religious Modernism ;  The Liberation Movement
of Iran under the Shah and Khomeini . Ithaca: Cornell University Press,  1990.
Cole ,  Juan R. I.  Modernity and the Millennium; The Genesis of the Baha’i Faith in
the Nineteenth-Century Middle East. New York: Columbia University Press,
1998.
Cole ,  Juan R. I. , and  Nikki R.  Keddie , eds.  Shi’ism and Social Protest . New Haven:
Yale University Press,  1986.

Bibliography
Dabashi, Hamid.  Islamic Liberation Theology: Resisting the Empire . London: Taylor &
Francis Ltd, 2008.
De Groot ,  Joanna.  Religion, Culture & Politics in Iran, from the Qajars to Khomeini.
London: I. B. Tauris,  2007.
Doroshenko, Elena Alekseevna.  The Shi’ite Clergy in Modern Iran ( Shiitskoe duk-
hovenstvo v sovremennom Irane ). Moscow: Nauka, 85.
Ehteshami ,  Anoushiravan , and  Mahjoob  Zweiri .  Iran and the Rise of its
Neoconservatives; the Politics of Tehran’s Silent Revolution . London: I. B. Tauris,
2009.
Fuller ,  E. Graham , and  Rend Rahim  Francke .  The Arab Shi’a—The Forgotten
Muslim. New York: St. Martin’s Press,  1999.
Gheissari ,  Ali , and  Vali  Nasr .  Democracy in Iran, History and the Quest for Liberty.
Oxford: Oxford University Press,  2006.
Heern ,  Zackery M.  Usuli Shi’ism: The Emergence of an Islamic Reform Movement
in Early Modern Iraq and Iran . A dissertation submitted to the faculty of The
University of Utah, Department of History, University of Utah,  2011.
al-Idrisi ,  Seyyed Hamid .  Al-Fadhiha leMadhhab al-Shia al-Imameya ([?]: Maktabat
al-Radhwan,  2007).  Retrieved  at   www.waqfeya.com/book.php?bid=6113
(February 29, 2012).
al-Khalifa ,  Majeed.  Gharaib Fuqahiya I’nd al-Shi’a al-Imamiya .  http://www
.dr-majeed.net .
Katouzian ,  Homa .  Mosaddiq and the Struggle for Power in Iran. London: I. B.
Tauris,  1990.
Keddie ,  Nikki R.  Modern Iran; Roots and Results of Revolution , updated edition.
New Haven: Yale University Press,  2003.
Martin ,  Vanessa .  Creating an Islamic State; Khomeini and the Making of a New
Iran . U.K: I. B. Tauris,  2003.
Menashri ,  David.  Iran between Islam and the West . Israel: Ministry of Defence,
1996 .
——— .  Iran in Revolution (in Hebrew). Tel Aviv: Hakibutz Hamehuhad, 1988.
Milani ,  Abbas .  Eminent Persians: The Men and Women Who Made Modern Iran,
1941–1979 , vol. 1. New York: Syracuse University Press,  2008.
——— .  The Persian Sphinx; Amir Abbas Hoveyda and the Riddle of the Iranian
Revolution . Washington: Mage Publication,  2009.
Mohaddessin ,  Mohammad .  Islamic Fundamentalism, the New Global Threat.
Washington: Seven Locks Press,  1993.
Moin ,  Baqer .  Khomeini, Life of the Ayatollah. London: I. B. Tauris,  1999.
Momen ,  Moojan .  An Introduction to Shi’i Islam . New Haven: Yale University
Press,  1985.
Moslem ,  Mehdi .  Factional Politics in Post-Khomeini Iran. New York: Syracuse
University Press,  2002.
Naji ,  Kasra .  Ahmadinejad, the Secret History of Iran’s Radical Leader. Berkeley:
University of California Press,  2008.
Nasr ,  Seyyed Hossein .  Shi’ism: Doctrines, Thoughts, and Spirituality. New York:
State University of New York Press,  1988.

Bibliography
Nasr ,  Vali .  The Sh’ia Revival; How Conflicts within Islam Will Shape the Future.
New York: W. W. Norton & Company,  2007.
Olson ,  Dean T.  Perfect Enemy; The Law Enforcement manual of Islamist Terrorism.
Illinois: Charles C Thomas,  2009.
Ramzani ,  R. K.  Revolutionary Iran; Challenge and Response in the Middle East .
Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press,  1988.
Roy ,  Oliver .  The Politics of Chaos in the Middle East . Translated from French by
Ros Schwartz. New York: Columbia University Press,  2008.
Sachedina ,  Abdulhussein Abdulaziz .  Islamic Messianism: The Idea of Mahdi in
Twelver Shi’ism . Albany: New York Press,  1981.
Smith ,  Peter .  An Introduction to the Baha’i faith. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press,  2008.
Sookhdeo ,  Patrick .  Global Jihad; The Future in the Face of Militant Islam. U. K.:
Isaac Publishing,  2007.
Taheri ,  Amir .  Holy Terror, The Inside Story of Islamic Terrorism. London: Sphere
Books Limited,  1987.
——— .  The Spirit of Alla . London: Hutchinson,  1985.
Thom ,  Workman. “The  Social Origins of the Iran-Iraq War .” PhD candidate paper,
New York University,  1991 .
Articles in English
Abedi ,  Mehdi , and  Michael M. J.  Fischer . “Autobiographical Stories of Mehdi
Abedi The Anti-Baha’i Society.” In  Debating Muslims: Cultural Dialogues in
Postmodernity and Tradition , edited by Michael M. J. Fischer, 48–54. Madison:
University of Wisconsin Press,  1990.
Abrahamian ,  Ervand . “Oriental Despotism: The Case of Qajar Iran.”  International
Journal of Middle East Studies 5, no. 1 ( 1974 ): 3–31.
Agence France Presse—English . “Assassination Plot against President Smashed:
Iran” (November 25,  1999 ).
———. “Iran Blames Fundamentalist Group for Attack on Judicial Official”
(April 24,  1999 ).
———. “Iranian Conservative Claims CIA Infiltrated Government” (January 27,
2000 ).
Angeles Times. “Iran Says It Thwarted Plot To Kill Khatami” (November 26,
1999 ), 36.
Apple Jr. ,  R. W. “Khomeini’s Grip Appears at Its Tightest.”  The New York Times
1 ( 1982 ).
Arjomand ,  Said Amir . “History, Structure, and Revolution in the Shi’ite Tradition
in Contemporary Iran.”  International Political Science Review/Revue interna-
tionale de science politique 10 ( 1989 ): 111–119.
——— . “The Ulama’s Traditionalist Opposition to Parliamentarianism: 1907–
1909. ”  Middle Eastern Studies 17, no. 2. ( 1981 ): 174–190.

Bibliography
Arya  newspaper , Tehran, reprinted in Keyhan, London edition, no. 794, February
10,  2000.
Ashraf ,  Ahmad , and  Ervand  Abrahamian . “Bazaar and Mosque in Iran’s Revolution.”
Middle East Research and Information Project (MERIP) ( 1983 ): 16–18.
Asia Times. “Shi’ite Supremacists Emerge from Iran’s Shadows” ( 2005 ).  http://
www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/GI09Ak01.html (accessed October 20,
2010).
Associated Press Worldstream. “Iran Blames Failed Assassination Attempt on
Secretive Group” (April 24,  1999 ).
———. “Iranian Authorities Arrest Group Suspected of Planning Assassination”
(November 25,  1999 ).
———. “Khomeini Never Intended to Have Rushdie Killed, Cleric Says” (August
26,  1999 ).
Avery  Peter , Gavin Hambly, and Charles Merville, eds. From Nadir Shah to the
Islamic Republic.  The Cambridge History of Iran 7 ( 1991 ).
Babak ,  Ganji . “Iranian Strategy: Factionalism & Leadership Politics.”  Conflict
Studies Research Centre , Middle East Series 07/06,  Defence Academy of the
United Kingdom ( 2007 ): 1–28.
Baha’i International Community . “The Baha’i Question; Cultural Cleansing in
Iran” (September,  2008 ).
Bahram ,  Choubine . “Suppression of Baha’is of Iran in 1955.”  http://www.kavehroom
.com/books/23years/dashti1.pdf .
Barkey ,  Karen . “Islam and Toleration: Studying the Ottoman Imperial Model.”
International Journal of Politics, Culture, and Society 19, no. 1/2 ( 2005 ): 5–19.
Barry ,  Rubin . “Iran, the Ayatollah, and U.S. Options.”  The Washington Quarterly
6, no. 3 ( 1983 ): 142–155.
Bayat ,  Assef . “Labor and Democracy in Post-Revolutionary Iran.” In  Post-
Revolutionary Iran , edited by Amirahmadi Hooshang and Parvin Manoucher,
41–55. Boulder & London: Westview Press,  1988.
——— . “‘Workers’ Control after the Revolution.”  Middle East Research and
Information Project (MERIP) ( 1983 ): 19–34.
Cameron ,  Geoffrey . “Baha’is in Iran, The Denial of Higher Education to the
Baha’is of Iran.”  Oxford Forum ( 2007 ):  http://www.theoxfordforum.com/latest
_issu.html .
The Christian Science Monitor . “Iran’s Persecution of Baha’is” 24 ( 1983 ).
Cole ,  Juan . “‘Indian Money’ and the Shi’i Shrine Cities of Iraq, 1786–1850.”
Middle Eastern Studies 22, no. 4 ( 1986 ): 461–480.
——— . “Iranian Millenarianism and Democratic Thought in the 19th Century.”
International Journal of Middle East Studies 24, no. 1 ( 1992 ): 1–26.
——— . “Shi’i Clerics in Iraq and Iran, 1722–1780: The Akhbari-Usual Conflict
Reconsider.”  Iranian Studies 18, no. 1 ( 1985 ): 3–34.
Cole ,  R. I. , and  Moojan  Momen . “Mafia, Mob and Shiism in Iraq: The Rebellion
of Ottoman Karbala 1824–1843.”  Past & Present no. 112 ( 1986 ): 112–143.
Enayat ,  Hamid . “Shi’ism and Sunnism.” In  Shi’ism: Doctrines, Thoughts, and
Spirituality , edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, 65–83. New York: State University
of New York Press,  1988.

Bibliography
Faghfoory ,  Mohammad H. “The Impact of Modernization on the Ulama in Iran,
1925–1941.”  Iranian Studies 26, no. 3/4 ( 1993 ): 277–312.
———. “The Ulama-State Relations in Iran: 1921–1941.”  International Journal of
Middle East Studies 19, no. 4 ( 1987 ): 413–432.
Farivar ,  Masood. “Armageddon and the Mahadi.”  The Wall Street Journal ( 2007 ).
Ferdows ,  Amir H. “Khomaini and Fadayan’s Society and Politics.”  International
Journal of Middle East Studies 15, no. 2 ( 1983 ): 241–257.
Fischer ,  Michael M. J. “Becoming Mollah: Reflections on Iranian Clerics in a
Revolutionary Age.”  Iranian Studies 13, no. 1/4 ( 1980 ): 83–117.
——— . “Repetitions in the Iranian Revolution.” In  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , edited by Kramer Martin, 117–132. Boulder: Westview Press,
1987.
Ghandchi ,  Sam. “Mahdaviat-IRI’s Hope or Despair.”  http://www.ghandchi
.com/458-Mahdaviat.htm (published December 11,  2007).
Godsell ,  Geoffrey. “Resolution of Iran’s Power Struggle Hinges on Outcome of
Iran-Iraq War.”  The Christian Science Monitor 7 ( 1982 ), 7–8.
Guo ,  Jerry . “Letter from Tehran: Iran’s New Hard-Liners; Who Is in Control of
the Islamic Republic.”  Foreign Affairs .  www.foreignaffairs.com/print/65429 .
Haeri ,  Safa . “Death of the Ayatollah: Army Out to Ensure Smooth Transfer.”  The
Independent Section: Foreign News ( 1989 ): 13.
Hairi ,  Abdul-Hadi . “The Legitimacy of the Early Qajar Rule as Viewed by the
Shi’i Religious Leaders.”  Middle Eastern Studies 24, no. 3 ( 1988 ): 271–286.
Halliday ,  Fred . “Year IV of the Islamic Republic.”  Middle East research and
Information Project (MERIP) ( 1983 ): 3–8.
Hanley ,  Charles J. “Militant Iranians Prosecute Baha’is.”  Los Angeles Times ( 1980 ): 4.
Heyking ,  John von . “Iran’s President and the Politics of the Twelfth Imam.”
Ashbrook Center .  http://www.ashbrook.org , Oct /publicat/guest/05/vonheyking
/twelfthimam.html (accessed October 24, 2010).
Al-Hilli ,  Allamah . “Shi’i Theology.” In  Shi’ism: Doctrines, Thoughts, and
Spirituality , edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, 91–99. New York: State University
of New York Press,  1988.
Hooglund ,  Eric . “The Gulf War and the Islamic Republic.”  Middle East Research
and Information Project (MERIP) 125/126 ( 1984 ): 31–37.
Hunter ,  Shireen T. “Iran’s New Power Struggle.”  The Christian Science Monitor
( 1983 ): 22.
el-Husseini ,  Rola. “Resistance, Jihad, and Martyrdom in Contemporary Lebanese
Shi‘a Discourse.”  Middle East Journal 62, no. 3 ( 2008 ): 399–414.
Ibrahim ,  Youssef M. “Piety and Power; Iran’s Clerics Tighten Grip by Instilling
Islam In Every Detail of Life.”  The Wall Street Journal ( 1982 ): 1.
The Iran Brief. “Messianic Group Said to Be Behind Assassination” ( 1999 ).
The Iran Brief . “Rafsanjani to Succeed Khamene’i?” (October 4,  1999 ).
Jansen ,  G. H. “Iran’s Divided Mullahs Pursue a Zigzag Path on Internal Reform.”
Los Angeles Times ( 1984 ): E2.
Kazemi ,  Farhad . “The  Fada’iyan-e Islam : Fanaticism, Politics and Terror.” In
From Nationalism to Revolutionary Islam , edited by Amir Arjomand, 158–176.
Albany: State University of New York Press,  1984.

Bibliography
Keddie ,  Nikki R. “Religion and Irreligion in Early Iranian Nationalism.”
Comparative Studies in Society and History 4, no. 3 ( 1962 ): 265–295.
Kedourie ,  Elie. “The Iraqi Shi’is and Their Fate.” In  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , edited by Martin Kramer, 135–157. Boulder: Westview Press,
1987.
Kifner ,  John . “Khomeini Faction Challenged by More Conservative Group.”  The
New York Times ( 1982 ): A1.
Lewis ,  Bernard . “The Shi’a in Islamic History.” In  Shi’ism, Resistance and
Revolution , edited by Martin Kramer, 21–30. Boulder: Westview Press,  1987.
Los Angeles Times. “Iran Says It Thwarted Plot To Kill Khatami” (November 26,
1999 ): 36.
MacEoin ,  Denis . “Orthodoxy and Heterodoxy in Nineteenth-Century Shi’ism:
The Cases of Shaykhism and Babism.”  Journal of the American Oriental Society
110, no. 2 ( 1990 ): 323–329.
Maghen ,  Ze ’ ev . “Occultation in Prepetuum: Shi’ite Eschatology and the Iranian
Nuclear Crisis.”  Institute for Policy and Strategy ( 2007 ): 1–30.
Masters ,  Bruce . “The Treaties of Erzurum ( 1823 and 1848) and the Changing
Status of Iranians in the Ottoman.”  Iranian Studies 24, no. 1/4 ( 1991 ):
3–15.
Mayer ,  Ann Elizabeth. “The Universality of Human Rights: Lessons from the
Islamic Republic;  Iran .”  Social Research , 67, no. 2 (June 22, 2000): 519.
Maziar ,  Behrooz . “Factionalism in Iran under Khomeini.”  Middle Eastern Studies
27, no. 4 ( 1991 ): 597–614.
Mazyar ,  Mokfi , and  Charles  Recknagel . “Could Ahmadinejad’s Mix of
Mysticism and Politics Lead to a Power Grab?”  Radio Free Europe, Radio
Library ( 2009 ).
Mcallester ,  Metthew . “Cartoonist Draws Political Heat Jailed, Banned for Being
Critical of Iranian Cleric,”  Newsday (February 17,  2000 ), A22.
Meed Quarterly Report—Iran . “Iran: Political Outlook” (October 26,  1999 ).
Meed Quarterly Report—Iran . “Iran: Political Outlook” (November 5,  1999 ), 5.
Menashri ,  David . “Iran (Jumhuriyye Islamiyye Iran).” In   Middle East Contemporary
Survey , vol. VI, edited by Lugum Colin, 532–549. Tel Aviv: The Shiloah
Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies,  1981 –2.
——— . “Iran (Jumhuriyye Islamiyye Iran).” In  Middle East Contemporary Survey ,
vol. VII, edited by Lugum Colin, 512–523. Tel- Aviv: The Shiloh Center for
Middle Eastern and African Studies,  1982 –3.
Middle East News Items. “Mahdaviyat Group another Scapegoat” (November 29,
1999 ).
Mideast Mirror . “Iran Reformists Shoot for ‘Another Second of Khordad,’” 14,
no. 29 (February 11,  2000 ).
Moaddel ,  Mansoor . “The Shi’i Ulama and the State in Iran.”  Theory and Society
15, no. 4 ( 1986 ): 519–556.
Moezzi ,  Mohammad Ali Amir . “Une absence remplie de présences. Herméneutiques
de l’occultation chez les Shaykhiyya” (Aspects de l’imamologie duodécimaine
VII).  Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London
64, no. 1 ( 2001 ): 1–18.

Bibliography
Mokfi ,  Mazyar , and Charles  Recknagel . “Could Ahmadinejad’s Mix Of Mysticism
And Politics Lead To A Power Grab?”  http://www.rferl.org/content/Could
_Ahmadinejads_Mix_Of_Mysticism_And_Politics_Lead_To_A_Power
_Grab/1793312.html . (August 5,  2009 ).
Momen ,  Moojan . “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations of Qazvin
Family.”  Iranian Studies 36, no. 3 ( 2003 ): 317–337.
Moussavi ,  Ahmad Kazemi . “The Establishment of the Position of Marja’iyyt-i Taqlid
in the Twelver-Shi’i Community.”  Iranian Studies 18, no. 1 ( 1985 ): 35–51.
Moussavi ,  Seyed Reza . “La religion et le système politique en Iran: étude compara-
tive des révolutions de 1906 et 1979.”  Canadian Journal of Political Science /
Revue canadienne de science politique 32, no. 2 ( 1999 ): 347–366.
Murphy ,  Caryle . “U.S. Baha’is Denounce Abuses.”  The Washington Post ( 1983 ): A1.
Newman ,  Andrew J. “The Nature of the Akhbari/Usuli Dispute in Late Safawid
Iran,” Part 2: The Conflict Reassessed.  Bulletin of the School of Oriental and
African Studies 55, no. 2 ( 1992 ): 250–261.
Nouraie ,  Fereshte M. “The Constitutional Ideas of a Shi’ite Mujtahid: Muhammad
Husayn Na’ini.”  Iranian Studies 8, no. 4 ( 1975 ): 234–247.
Olson ,  William J. “The Succession Crisis in Iran.”  The Washington Quarterly 6,
no. 3 ( 1983 ): 156–[?].
The Origins and Early Development of Shi’a Islam . “The Doctrine of the Imamate.”
http://www.karbala-najaf.org/shiaism/289–316.htm .
Political Parties and Groups . “From 15th Khordad Uprising to the Victory of
the Islamic Revolution.”  http://www2.irib.ir/worldservice/imam/hadith%20
bidari/2.htm (accessed November 9,  2008 ).
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. Middle East News Items, “Mahdaviyat Group
Another Scapegoat” (November 29,  1999).
Randal ,  Jonathan C. “Iran’s Clergy Divided By Succession Battle.”  The Washington
Post ( 1982 ): A20.
The Record (Bergen County, NJ). “Messianic Group Blamed for Attack On Judge
in Iran” (April 24,  1999 ): A17.
“The Return of the Hojatieh”:  http://bahairants.com/the-return-of-the-hojatieh-81
.html (December 14,  2005) .
Reuters. “Iranians Dissolve Communist Party.”  The New York Times ( 1983 ): A1.
Richard ,  Yann . “Ayatollah Kashani: Precursor of the Islamic Republic.” In  Shi’ism,
Resistance and Revolution , edited by Martin Kramer, 101–124. Boulder:
Westview Press,  1987.
——— . “Le Rôle du clergé: tendances contradictoires du chi’isme iranien con-
temporain.”  Archives de sciences sociales des religions 28e Année 1, no. 55 ( 1983 ):
5–27.
Rudi ,  Matthee. “The Egyptian Opposition to the Iranian Revolution.” In  Shi’ism
and Social Protest , edited by Juan R. I. Cole and Nikki R. Keddie, 248.
Ruehsen ,  Moyara de Moraes . “Operation ‘Ajax’ Revisited: Iran,  1953. ”  Middle
Eastern Studies 29, no. 3 ( 1993 ): 467–486.
Sachedina ,  Abdulaziz Abdulhussein , “The Just Ruler” (al-sultan al-adil),  Shi´ite
Islam: The Comprehensive Authority of the Jurist in Imamite Jurisprudence
( 1988 ): 105.

Bibliography
Sachs ,  Susan . “Runoff Voting in Iran Tests Majority Hope of Reformers,”  The
New York Times (May 6, 2000), 6.
Samii ,  A. W . “Falsafi, Kashani and the Baha’is.”  Shaykhi, Babi and Bahaa’i Studies
2, no. 5 ( 1998 ).  http://www. h-net.org /~bahai/notes/vol2/falsafi.htm (accessed
November 13, 2008.).
Samii ,  Bill . “Iran: Resurgence of Religio-Political Society Raises Concerns.”  Radio
Free Europe, Radio Library ( 2006 ).
——— . “Iran va Jahan. Is the Hojjatieh Society Making a Comeback?”  Radio Free
Europe ( 2004 ).
Sadri ,  Mahmoud . “Hojjatiya.”  Encyclopaedia Iranica XII Fascicle 4, edited by
Yarshater Ehsan ( 2006 ): 427–428.
——— . “Shaikh Mahmud Halabi.”  Encyclopaedia Iranica Online ( 2006 ).  http://
www.iranica.com/newsite/ .
Shapira ,  Shimon and Dan  Diker. “Iran’s Second Islamic Revolution.” In  Iran,
Hizbullah,  Hamas, and the Global Jihad: A New Conflict Paradigm for the
West . Jerusalem: Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs,  2007 .  http://jcpa.org/text
/iran_page_44–61.pdf .
Tabataba ’ i ,  A ’ llamah . “The Shi’i Interpretation of Hadith Literature.” In  Shi’ism,
Doctrines, Thought, and Spirituality , edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, Hamid
Dabashi, and Seyyed Vali Reza Nasr, 35–36.
Taghavi ,  Sayed Mohammad Ali. “‘Fadaeeyan-I Islam’: The Prototype of Islamic
Hard-liners in Iran.”  Middle Eastern Studies 40, no. 1 ( 2004 ): 151–165.
Valinejad ,  Afshin. “Iran’s Leading Journalist Says Former Intelligence Minister
Ordered Murder of Dissidents,”  Associated Press Worldstream (November 30,
2000 ).
Van England ,  Claude . “Factions in Iran Ready for Power Struggle after Khomeini.”
The Christian Science Monitor 3 ( 1982 ).
——— . “Iran Finds Its Self-Isolation Gets a Cool Reception Abroad.”  The
Christian Science Monitor 5 ( 1982 ).
——— . “Khomeini Shifts to Political Sidelines.”  The Christian Science Monitor
13 ( 1984 ).
Vaziri ,  Sharough . “Les Groupes Dominants et le Jeu Politique Islamique en Iran.”
Centre  D ’ etudeE et de Documentation Iraniennes, Lausanne, Switzerland
( 2000) : 1–22.  http://www.shahrokhvaziri.org/pdf/groupes_dominants.pdf .
Walbridge ,  John . “The Babi Uprising in Zanjan: Causes and Issues.”  Iranian
Studies 29, no. 3/4 ( 1996 ): 339–362.
The Washington Post . “Iran’s Khatemi Asks for Tolerance of Free Expression”
(November 26,  1998 ): A51.
Xinhua general News Service. “Iranian Leader Worried about Disunity among
Ruling Clergy.” Item No: 072029 ( 1983 ).
Zabihi-Moghaddam ,  Siyamak . “The Babi-State Conflict at Shaykh Tabarsi.”
Iranian Studies 35, no. 1/3 ( 2002 ): 87–112.
Zonis ,  Marvin , and  Daniel  Brumberg . “Shi’ism as Interpreted by Khomeini: An
Ideology of Revolutionary Violence.” In  Shi’ism, Resistance and Revolution , edi-
tor by Martin Kramer, 47–66. Boulder: Westview Press,  1987.
Zubaida ,  Sami . “An Islamic State? The Case of Iran.”  Middle East Research and
Information Project (MERIP) no. 153 ( 1988 ): 3–7.

Bibliography
BBC Correspondence
“Resalat” (Tehran, in Persian). “Iran: Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi Vows to Continue
Fight against USA” (October 18, 2000).
“Iran Majlis Ratifies Draft Bill on Non-Profit-Making Schools,” Tehran Home
Service, The Middle East, ME/0084/A/1, February 25,  1988.
Iran News Agency. “Information Ministry Says it has Crushed Extremist Group
Plotting to Kill President” (November 27, 1999), ME/D3703/MED.
Iranian Newspaper Hamshari (Teheran, in Persian). “Iran: Ayatollah Mesbah-Yazdi
Says Islamic Ruler ‘Appoints’ the President” (December 7, 1998).
Islamic Republic News Agency. “Judiciary Chief Comments on Source of
Emulation, Prisons and the Pope’s Remarks” (December 8, 1994), ME/2173/
MED.
Jomhuri-ya Eslami’ website (Tehran, in Persian). “Iran: Paper Links CIA Director’s
Comments to ‘attacks’ against Mesbah-Yazdi” (February 5, 2000).
Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran. “Iran: Yazdi Urges Judiciary To ‘Take
Action’ against ‘Mercenary Writers’” (September 18, 1999).
Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network (in Persian). “Pilgrims Perform
Ceremonies in Mina despite Saudi Obstruction” (May 26, 1994), ME/2006/
MED.
“Comparison of Persecution Under the Shah and Khomeyni.”  National Voice of
Iran (in Persian) (March 29, 1983), ME/7297/A/9.
“The ‘So-Called Islamic Association.”  National Voice of Iran (in Persian) (June 25,
1982), ME/7061/A/8.
“Denunciation of Bazargan’s Freedom Movement.”  Iran (October 12, 1982),
ME/7154/A/1.
Free Voice of Iran (June 28, 1983), ME/7371/A/1.
“Islamic ‘Despotism’ in Iran.”  Literaturnaya Gazeta (June 29, 1983), SU/7372/
A4/1.
“Iranian Prime Minister on the Economy: ‘Dark Gangs’ in the Bazaar.”  Radio Iran
(July 12, 1983), ME/7383/A/1.
“Interior Minister’s Speech Disrupted.”  Radio Iran (July 15, 1983),
ME/7386/A/1.
“Advice to Iranian Revolution Guards.”  National Voice of Iran (in Persian) (July
20, 1983), ME/7390/A/7.
“American-Style Islam the Greatest ‘Enemy’ of Iranian Revolution.”  Tehran Home
Service (July 21, 1983), ME/7391/A/1.
“US Links with Iran.”  Soviet Television (August 11, 1983), Su/7409/A4/3.
“Hojjatiyeh Members ‘CIA Fifth Column.”  Moscow in Persian (October 5, 1983),
SU/7456/A4/1.
“Pro-Western Faction Reported within Iranian Leadership.”  National Voice of Iran
(In Persian) (September 24, 1984), ME/7756/A/1.
“Iran Majlis Ratifies Draft Bill on Non-Profit Making Schools.”  Tehran Home
Service (February 25, 1988), ME/0084/A/1.
Voice of the Kaviyani Banner of Iran (April 28, 1989), ME/0445/A/1.
Voice of the Kaviyani Banner of Iran (April 1989), ME/0443/A/1.

Bibliography
“Guards Commander Blames Extremist Shi’I Group For bid to Kill Judicial
Official.”  Iran News Agency (April 24, 1999, ME/D3518/MED.
“MKO Group Reportedly Claims Responsibility for Assassination Attempt.”  Iran
News Agency (January 7, 1999), ME/D3426/MED.
“Iranian Papet Says Razini’s Assailant Extradited from UAE.”  Tehran Times
(August 20, 1999), ME/D3618/MED.
“Information Ministry Says it has Crushed Extremist Group Plotting to Kill
President.”  Iran News Agency (November 27, 1999), ME/D3703/MED.
“Iran: Cleric Warns against Dangers of Reactionary Religion.”  “Aftad-e Yazd”
website (Tehran, in Persian) (February 16, 2004).
“Iran Press: Senior Cleric Comments on ‘American Islam.’”  “E’temad” website
(Tehran, in Persian) (September 18, 2005).
“Iran Press: Senior Politician Criticizes Some Reformists.”  “Aftab-e Yazd” website
(Tehran, in Persian) (August 26, 2006).
“Iran Press: Commentary Defends Mesbah against Claim of Being “Sect” Leader.”
“Resalat” (Tehran, in Persian) (August 29, 2006).
“Iran Press: Letter Defends Reformist Cleric Who Attacked Hardline Ayatollah.”
“Kayhan” website (Tehran, in Persian) (September 4, 2006).
“Iran Press: Leading Clerics Denounce MisuseCof concept of Mahdi.”  “E’temad”
website (Tehran, in Persian) (September 10, 2006).
“Germany: Munich Meeting of Christian, Islamic Theologians Criticized.”  “ddp”
news agency (Berlin, in German) (December 5, 2008).
UN Files
Nazila, Ghanea-Hercock. “Ethnic and Religious Groups in the Islamic Republic
Of Iran.” The UN Refugee Agency,  University of London, Institute of
Commonwealth Studies (2004).  http://www.un.org (accessed October, 2004).
The UN Refugee Agency. “Iran: Information on the Hojjatiya Society.”
Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada (2003), IRN41774.E.  http://www
.un.org (accessed September 11, 2003).
Persian Literature
Akhgari ,  Mohammad Reza .  Velayati-haye bi Velayat (Anjoman Hojjatiyeh) (?) Jalad
Aval. ( 1367 /1988).
Anjoaman-e Hojjatiyyeh (Hojatieh Society).  http://www.bashgah.net/topics-1024
.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh Va Anharafat An (Hojatieh Society and its deviation).
http://www.bashgah.net/pages-17611.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh va Savak (Hojatieh Society and the SAVAK [shah’s intel-
ligent service]).  http://www.askquran.ir/showthread.php?t=4615 .

Bibliography
Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh; Hakayat Moqades Nemayan (Hojatieh Society, narrative of
sanctimonious).  http://www.rajanews.com/printfriendly.asp ? id =36396.
Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh; Tashkilaty-e Sad Chehreh (Hojatieh Society, a Hypocritical
organization).  http://mehrabeandishe.blogfa.com/post-42.aspx .
Baqi, I’mad al-Din.  Dar Shenokht hezb Qa’idin-e Zaman (Mowsum Be Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyeh) (In recognition of Qaedin Party [to be known as Hojatieh Society]).
Tehran: Neshar Danesh Eslami, 1362/ 1984.
Dindary-e Dar Chanbareh-ye Jamud (Religiosity, in circle of inanition).  http://
www.bashgah.net/pages-13375.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Ershadi-niya ,  Mohammad Reza .  Az Madreseh-ye Ma’aref ta Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh
va Maktab-e Tafkik (From the School of Ma’aref to the Hojjatiyeh Society and
Its Separation Ideology). Qom: Muwsasa Bustan-e Ketab,  2005.
Gholamy ,  Fatah .  60 Sal Faraz va Neshib, Ravayaty- Taze Az Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh
(60 years ups and downs, the new story of Hojatieh Society).  http://www
.bashgah.net/pages-520.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
——— .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh va Savak (Hojatieh Society and the SAVAK [shah’s
intelligent service]).  http://www.bashgah.net/pages-550.html (accessed June
21, 2010).
——— .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh, Ruyaruy Ya Hemayat Az Velayat-e Faqih (Hojatieh
Society, encounter [confrontation] or patronage of Velayate Faghih [Velayate
Faghih=Supreme leader]).  http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-617.html (accessed
June 21, 2010).
——— .  Layeh ha-ye Panhan-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The hidden layers of
Hojatieh Society).  http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-1169. Html (accessed June
21, 2010).
——— .  Mudafai’n-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (Hojatieh Society, encounter [con-
frontation] or patronage of Velayate Faghih [Velayate Faghih=Supreme leader]).
http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-788.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Hayati ,  Mahmoud .  Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The his-
tory of foundation of Hojatieh Society).  http://www.nasirboushehr.com/01
/journal481.html .
Imam Khomeini (rs). Bidarkar Jama’a Eslami (Imam Khomeini; Hojatieh Society,
The raiser of Islamic society).  http://www.bfnews.ir/prtc14q1.2bqs481aa2
/html .
Mani ,  Hassan .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh Chunan Yek Farqah Genosi (Hojatieh
Society, as a gnosis sect [gnosis is a Hellenic word with meaning of enemy]).
http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-17112.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Mehraby ,  Taj Aladin .  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh va  Velayat-e Faqih (Hojatieh Society
and Velayat-e-faghih [supreme leader]).  http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-7482
.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Mehergan ,  Keyvan.  Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh :  Hezb Marmuz (Hojatieh Society, mys-
terious party).  http://www.bashgah.net / pages-16459.html (accessed June 21,
2010).
Motaheri ,  Murteza .  Qayam va Enqelab-e mahdi—Shahid (Resurrection and
revolution of Mahdi [Motahari Martyred]). Qom: Chap-e Amir, 1398
Hijri/ 1978.

Bibliography
Muhtashemy Pur: Pusht Sar Tamam Fateneh-hay-e Ke Rakh Dadeh, Anjoman-e
Hojjatiyyeh Ra my-binam (Hojatieh Society is behind of [cause of] all intrigues).
http://www.parlemannews.ir/?n = 8522.
Nabuy ,  Said Abbas .  Kash “Hojjatiyyeh” Yek Jariyan Fekry Bud (I wish Hojatieh was
a flow of thought).  http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-17213.html (accessed June
21, 2010).
Nemin ,  Salimy , and  Abbas  Slimy .  Gozashteh va Hal Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The
past and present of Hojatieh).  http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-359 (accessed
June 21, 2010).
Nury-Zadeh ,  Alireza. ( 2007 ) . Az Hojjatiyyeh Ta Hezbullh (From Hojatieh to
Hezbollah).  http://www.mamnoe.tk
Owliya  Nasab ,  Din  Zia ’ ul , and Salman  Alavi-Nik .  Jaryan shenaˆsi-ye anjoman-e
hojjatiyye (Methodology of Hojjatiyeh Society). Qom: Zalal Kowsar, 1375/ 2006.
Razvy ,  Hussein .  Tanzah Talab Az Siyasiyat (?). http://www.bashgah.net/pages-17141
.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Sarabandi ,  Mohammad Reza .  Khatarat-e Sarhang-e Mohammad Mahadi-ye
Katibeh (memoirs of Colonel Mohammad Mehdi Katibeh). Tehran: Markaz-e
Osnad Enqelab-e Eslami, 1382/2003 (Tehran: center of Islamic revolutionary
documents).
Stodeh ,  Masoud .  Enqelab Va Guru Hojjatiyyeh (Revolution and Hojatieh Group).
http://www.bashgah.net/pages-29728.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Tajari ,  Hossein .  Entezar, bedhar-e Enqelab; Yadi az Qayam Jahani Mahdi
(Expectation, origin of revolution; remembrance of world’s resurrection of
Mahdi. (Neshar Kukab [Kukab publisher] [ 1358 /1979]).
Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh (The history of foundation of
Hojatieh  Society).   http://www.nasirboushehr.com/journal-01-issue33–398
.html .
Tarikhcheh-ye Shekalgiry-e Anjoman-e Hojjatiyyeh ;  Qesmat Davam (The history
of foundation of Hojatieh Society).  http://nasirboushehr.com/01/journal456
.html .
Tavakoli ,  Bina .  Abulfazal ,  Madhhab A’liye Madhhab (Religion against religion).
http://www.bashgah.net/ pages-17213.html (accessed June 21, 2010).
Tavalay ,  Abdulhossein. ( 2010 ) . Hojjatiyyeh binash ya tashakel (Hojatieh, insight or
organization.)  http://www.boshgoh.net/pages-17231.html .
Books in Arabic
A’waid Al-iyam Lilfaghal Al-mahqaqa Al-mauly Ahmed Al-naraqi (1245–1185).
Markaz Al-abhat wa Al-darasat Al-eslamia,  2010 .  http://www.naraqi.com
/arg/g/g03/000.htm .
Abdul Rahim ,  Mohammad .  Aqa’id Ash-Shi’a; Dur Abdullah Bin Siba Alyahudi fi
Sana’a Al-A’qai’d Ash-Shia Al-fasida . [?]: Alneshar Rawaq,  2008.
Al-halifa ,  Majeed .  Gharaib Fukahiya A’end Al-shea’a Al-imamiya.  http://www
.dr-majeed.net .

Bibliography
Al-Idres  al-Sayed ,  Hamed .  Al-fadheh li-Madhhab Al-shia’a Al-imameya [?].
Al-Juajiry , A’ del .  Ahmadinejad; Rajel fi Qalb Al-Asifa . Dimashq: Maktaba Riadh
Al-A’lbi,  2006.
Al-shashary , A’bed Al-rahman ben said.  A’qaid al-shia’a Al-ithny A’shariya 133
Suuala wa juuaba.  http://www.saaid.net .
Al-zahrany ,  Haled Bin Ahmed .  Maoqefal Al-shia’a Al-ithny A’shariya min Alaima
Al-arabia.  http://www.alburhan.com .
Katazuman ,  Kinish .  Al-hars Al-taury Al-irany . . . nashataha wa takuinaha wa
durha. Markaz Alimarat lildarasat wa albahut.  http://www.albainah.net .
Qasir ,  Abdulla Ahmad .  Qaraa fi al-faker al-Siasiya lilImam al-Khumeini. Najaf:
Harakat al-Tajdid wa ul-Istanahadh,  1987.
Public Record Office (PRO-U.K)
Cabinet—Conclusions of a Meeting of the cabinet. CAB/128/25.
Persia—Internal Political Situation. CAB/129/55.
Central Intelligence Agency Records
Central intelligence Agency. “Analysis of Iranian Political Situation, Topics
Include: Popular Support of Mossadeq’s Government; Collapse of British
Position in Iran; Soviet Position in Iran” (October 12, 1951).
———. Secret. “Prospects for Survival of Mossadeq Government,” report (October
14, 1952).
Department of State. Confidential. Office of Intelligence Research, Report No. 4849
(January 28, 1949).
———. Secret. “Fedayan Islam.” Am Emb Tehran, Despatch No. 20. July 7,
1951.
———. Secret. “Luncheon Meeting with Prime Minister Mosadeq.” Transmittal
Memorandum, Dean Acheson, Secretary of State to the President (October
22, 1951).
———. Secret. “Increasing Communist Threat in Iran.” Office of Intelligence
Research, Report No. 5716 (November 23, 1951). 8 p.
———. “Further Activities of Fedayan Islam.” Am Emb Tehran, Despatch No.
845 (January 25, 1952).
———. Secret. “Increasing Communist Threat in Iran.” Office of Intelligence
Research, Division of Research for Near East, South Asia, and Africa, Report
No. 5735 (January 10, 1952).
Division of Research for Near East, South Asia, and Africa. Office of Intelligence
Research, Report No. 6126 (January 9, 1953).
Further Activities of Fedayan Islam. Am Emb Tehran, Despatch No. 969.
February 29, 1952.

Bibliography
“Iran, Basic Factors Leading to the Nationalization of the Oil Industry in Iran.”
Office of Intelligence Research, Division of Research for Near East, South
Asia, and Africa, Report No. 5683 (March 6, 1952).
National Security Council. Top Secret. “Current Policies of the Government of
the United States of America Relating to the National Security”: Volume I,
Geographical Area Policies: Part V, Middle East—Iran (November 1, 1952).
Secret, National Intelligence Estimate. “Probable Developments in Iran in 1952 in
the Absence of an Oil Settlement.” NIE-46 (February 4, 1952). Item Number:
IROO274.
Secret, National Intelligence Estimate. “Probable Developments in Iran through
1953” (January 9, 1953), NIE-75/1, Item Number: IROO303.
———. Probable Developments in Iran through 1955. Secret, National Intelligence
Estimate, NIE 34–35 (December 7, 1954). Item Number: IROO325.
Books in Hebrew
Menashri ,  David .  Iran: Between Islam and the West (in Hebrew). Kiryat Ono: The
Ministry of Defense Publishing,  1996 .
Shahvar ,  Soli . “Iran, 1925–1946.” In  The Middle East between World Wars , edited
by Hagai Erlich, 255–259. Book E, Part Two. Tel Aviv: The Open University,
2003.
Sharon ,  Moshe.  The Baha’i Faith and its Holy Writ; The Most Holy Book (al-Kitab
al-Aqdas) (in Hebrew Translation) (Jerusalem,  2005 ).

Abbasid Empire,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  21
Abduh, Muhammad,  vii ,  3
Abdul-Baha (Abbas Effandi),  60
Abraham,  5 ,  7 ,  10 ,  54 ,  61
Abu Bakr,  4 ,  6 ,  23
Adelkhah, Fariba,  74
Ahal-al-Kitab ,  107
Ahmadinejad, Mahmmud,  100 ,  124 ,
126–127 ,  137 ,  140–143
Ahsa’i, Shaykh Ahmad ibn Zayn
al-Din ibn Ibrahim,  49–50
Ahul al-Bayt ,  8
Ajax Operation,  43–44 ,  68
Akhbariyya School,  22–24 ,  27 ,  32 ,
147 ,  176
al-‘Askar ī , Hassan,  14 ,  15
Ala’, Hossein,  67
al-Afghani, Jamal ad-Din,  vii ,  3
Alavi, Sayyid Abbas,  69 ,  70
al-Bana, Hassan,  vii
al-Baqir, Muhammad,  8 ,  146
al-Fawa’id al-Makkiyya ,  22
al-Fawa’id al-Nadaniyya ,  22 ,  23
Ali al-Hadi, Imam,  14 ,  15
Ali Ibn Abi Talib, Imam,  viii ,  4
al-Qaff ā l al-Kab ī r,  23
al-Sadiq, Ja’far,  8 ,  12
al-Sadr Musa,  vii
Amanat, Abbas,  70 ,  71
Amili, Nur al-Din,  22
Anjoman-i Imam-i Zaman ,  68 ,
70–72 ,  113
Anjoman-i Khariyeh Hojjatiyeh
Mahdiviyeh ,  68 ,  108
Anjoman-i Ta’alimat-i Islami ,  70
Anjoman-i Tablighat-i Islami ,  69 ,  71 ,  149
Anjoman-i Zad Baha’I ,  69 ,  70 ,  146 ,  149
Arai’, Nasser Fakhr,  34
Arba’een,  11–12
Arjomand, Said Amir,  xi
Ash-Sh ā sh ī , Abu Bakr Muhammad
ibn ‘Ali ibn Isma’il,  23
Ashura,  3–4 ,  10–11 ,  32
Astarabadi, Mirza Muhammad
Amin,  22
Atat ü rk, Mustafa Kamal,  30 ,  31
Awaid al-Ayam,  102–103
Ayadi, Abdul Karim,  87
Azerbaijan,  99
Babak Khoramdim ,  135
Babi Faith, Babsim,  27–28 ,  51–57 ,  65 ,
70 ,  83 ,  87 ,  154
Baghdad,  55–57
Baha’i Faith, Baha’ism,  xi ,  18 ,  27 ,  28 ,
36 ,  43–44 ,  47–77 ,  80–94 ,  99–101 ,
107 ,  111–114 ,  117–119 ,  123 ,  126–
127 ,  129 ,  133–134 ,  139 ,  141 ,  145 ,
146 ,  149–150 ,  157
Baha’u’llah,  55 ,  62 ,  64–65 ,  71–72 ,
113 ,  134 ,  146
Bakhtiar, Tymor,  67 ,  87
Bani-Sadr, Abul Hassan,  99 ,  110–111
Baqi, Imad al-Din,  68 ,  74 ,  76 ,  93–94 ,
108 ,  116–117 ,  146
Baqir, Mulla Muhammad known as
‘Allama Majlisi,  5
Basij ,  127 ,  135
Index

Index
Batmaglich, General Nader,  67
Beheshti, Sayyid Mohammad
Hosseini,  70 ,  76
Bihbihani, Ayatollah Muhammad
Baqir,  23
Borujerdi, Ayatollah Sayyid Hossein,
xi ,  32 ,  34–39 ,  43 ,  45 ,  66–67 ,  70 ,
72 ,  73 ,  77 ,  87 ,  103 ,  113 ,  119 ,  133
Bowker, Sir James,  39
Buddha,  61
CIA,  112 ,  121 ,  139
Cottam, Richard,  37
Davani, Sheikh Ali,  133–134
Davari, Mahmood T.,  31 ,  66 ,  77
Dhu al-Hijjah,  10 ,  12
E’id Ghadir-Khum ,  8 ,  12
E’id al-Adha ,  10
E’id al-Fitr ,  9
Entezar ,  78 ,  108
Erfan ,  83
Esfahani, Mirza Mahadi,  74
Ettelaa’t (Newspaper),  110
Fadai’yan-i Islam,  33 ,  37 ,  43–44 ,
66 ,  73
Falsafi, Muhammad Taqi,  43 ,  67
Fatima (Mohammad the Prophet’s
daughter),  4 ,  7
Fazollah Nouri, Ayatollah Sheikh,  29
Freedom Movement,  107
Fuqaha ,  31 ,  83 ,  101–103 ,  106 ,  149
Ghayba al-Kubra (Major
Occultation),  15
Ghaybat ,  103–104
Ghaybat al-Sughra (Minor
Occultation),  14
Gholam-Hussein, Muhammad,  74 ,  127
Guardian Council,  108 ,  139
Hajj (Pilgrimage),  6 ,  12 ,  58 ,  74 ,  93
Hakimi, Muhammad Reza,  77
Halabi Program,  75
Halabi, Sheikh Mahmoud,  x–xi ,  44 ,
68–70 ,  72–79 ,  81 ,  83–84 ,  90–93 ,
99–100 ,  106 ,  111 ,  113–116 ,
118–120 ,  122–124 ,  126–127 ,
129 ,  135 ,  141–142 ,  146
Halili Tehrani, Haj Mirza
Hussein,  33
Hamshari (Newspaper),  135
Haqqani School,  70 ,  127 ,  141
Hatin, Narjes,  14
Hauza ,  124
Heern, Zackery M.,  23–24
Hekmat ,  83
Hezb-i Qaedin-i Zaman,  68 ,  70–71 ,
82 ,  108
Hezbollah,  98 ,  133
Hidden Imam,  vii–viii ,  4 ,  6–7 ,  12–14 ,
16 ,  24–25 ,  27–30 ,  32 ,  41 ,  50–52 ,
56 ,  59 ,  65 ,  69 ,  71–72 ,  74–75 ,  78 ,
85 ,  100 ,  106 ,  109–111 ,  113 ,  116 ,
120 ,  123 ,  132 ,  135–137 ,  142 ,
146–148
Hijra ,  7 ,  11 ,  50 ,  56
Hoveyda, Amir Abbas,  73 ,  133
Hussein Ibn Ali (Imam),  4 ,  7 ,  9 ,
11–12
Ijtihad ,  23–24 ,  28 ,  50 ,  101
Imam Zaman,  81 ,  93 ,  116 ,  129
Imamate (Leadership),  1 ,  5 ,  8 ,  12 ,  22 ,
50 ,  51 ,  66 ,  120 ,  153
Iran Javan ,  30
Ishmael,  10
Islamic Coalition Association –
Jamiyat-i Motalifihi-ye Islami ,
124–125 ,  133
Islamic Republic of Iran,  x ,  113 ,  122 ,
141 ,  151
Islamic Revolution (of Iran),  16 ,  24 ,
69–71 ,  75 ,  76 ,  78 ,  80 ,  86 ,  88 ,  92 ,
99 ,  100 ,  105 ,  109 ,  111 ,  113 ,  126 ,
127 ,  132 ,  135–137 ,  140
Ismah ,  5
Ithna A’shariyyah ,  1 ,  4 ,  7

Index
Jafari, Mohammad Ali,  135
Ja’fari School,  27 ,  69 ,  80
Janeti, Ayatollah Ahmad,  71
Jesus,  7 ,  13 ,  71
Jews,  10 ,  17 ,  111
Jizya ,  3
Judaism,  ix ,  10 ,  13 ,  17 ,  55 ,  58 ,  61
Karaki, Ayatollah Muhaqqiq,  101–102
Karbala,  3 ,  4 ,  9 ,  11 ,  12
Karbalai, Mohsen,  128
Kashani, Ayatollah Abul Qasem,
32–45 ,  66 ,  72–73 ,  106
Katouzian, Homa,  35
Keyhani (Newspaper),  125
Khamene’i, Ayatollah Ali (Iran’s
Spiritual Leader),  108 ,  141
Khansari, Ayatollah,  90
Khatami, Mohammad,  126–127 ,  134 ,
137–139 ,  142
Khawarej ,  71 ,  131
Khazali, Ayatollah Abul Qasem,  116 ,
Khomeini (and the Hojjatiyeh),  97–110 ,
123 ,  126–127 ,  131–136
Khomeini Ayatollah Ruhallah,  vii–xi ,
23 ,  28 ,  37 ,  39 ,  44 ,  67 ,  68 ,  71–73 ,
75–80 ,  87 ,  89 ,  90–93 ,  137 ,  139 ,
140–143 ,  149–150
Khoms ,  6
Khordad Group,  125
Khouei, Ayatollah,  84 ,  116 ,  125
Kirmani, Karim Khan,  49
Kit á b-i Aqdas ,  56 ,  58–60 ,  64
Kit á b-i Iqan ,  59 ,  84
Lailat ul-Qadr ,  10
Lebanon,  11 ,  39
Madani, Ayatollah,  94
Maghen, Ze’ev,  133 ,  136
Mahdavi-Kani, Ayatollah Mohammad
Reza,  107
Mahdi (and Mahadiviyat),  viii ,  ix ,  xi ,
xii ,  4 ,  9 ,  12–19 ,  22 ,  49–52 ,  55–57 ,
65 ,  69 ,  70–72 ,  74 ,  76–77 ,  79–81 ,  85 ,
100 ,  104 ,  105 ,  111 ,  113 ,  115 ,  129 ,
132–134 ,  136–137 ,  141 ,  146 ,  148
Majlis (Iranian Parliament),  34 ,  35 ,
36–39 ,  41 ,  42 ,  44 ,  88 ,  107 ,  110 ,
114 ,  115 ,  124 ,  150
Maktabi-i Tafkik ,  77
Maktabis ,  88 ,  107–110 ,  122 ,  123–124
Marja-i Taqlid ,  23 ,  32 ,  34 ,  66 ,  98 ,
99–100 ,  103 ,  116 ,  123 ,  141
Marjiyat,  32
Marxism,  17 ,  76 ,  83–84 ,  125
Masharud, Ayatollah Abbas Amini,  125
Mashhad,  68 ,  70 ,  72 ,  75 ,  77 ,  99 ,  106 ,
124 ,  126 ,  132
Menashri, David,  12
Mesbah-Yazdi, Ayatollah Mohammad
Taqi,  70 ,  124 ,  127–128 ,  138–142
Messiah,  4 ,  12–13 ,  70 ,  72 ,  134
Messianism,  73 ,  80
Milani, Ayatollah Mohammad
Hadi,  135
Milani, Hassan,  135
M í rz á Yahy á (Subh-i Azal),  53–54 ,  57
Mohadethin (Hadith tellers),  83
Mohssani-Ajakhii, Hojjat ul Islam
Gholam Hossein,  127
Mohteshmi-Pur, Ali-Akbar,  127–128
Mojahedin-i Khalq Organization
(MKO, MEK),  111–112 ,  114 ,  117 ,
123 ,  124 ,  135 ,  142
Monafeqin ,  124 ,  142
Monsema, John Cloor,  83
Mossad,  121
Mossadeq, Dr. Muhammad,  x ,  33–45 ,
66–67 ,  70 ,  72–74 ,  106 ,  145
Moussavi, Mir-Hossein,  110–111
Muharram,  9 ,  11 ,  32
Muslim Brotherhood,  34
Mutekalemin ,  83
Na’ini, Ayatollah Mirza Muhammad
Hussein,  29
Naji, Kasra,  140
Namaz ,  6

Index
Naqd-e-Iqan ,  84
Naraqi, Mullah Ahmad,  102–104
National Front,  34 ,  37 ,  38–41 ,  43
Nawbakhti, Abul Qasim Husayn
Ibn Ruh,  15
Nikah al-Mut’ah,  7
Nobuwa (Prophecy),  4
Pahlavi, Mohammad Reza Shah,  35
Pahlavi Dynasty (and regime),  ix ,  22 ,
24 ,  33 ,  35 ,  65 ,  81 ,  89 ,  99
Pur-Mohammadi, Mostafa,  127
Qajar Dynasty (and regime),  21–31 ,
33 ,  35–51 ,  53 ,  68 ,  87 ,  101–103 ,  148
Qavam, Ahmed,  39
Qom,  35 ,  75 ,  106 ,  124–126 ,  132
Quran,  6–7 ,  9–10 ,  12–13 ,  16–17 ,  36 ,
51–52 ,  58 ,  74 ,  77–79 ,  83 ,  88 ,  97 ,
103 ,  105 ,  107
Rahbar (guide),  98 ,  100
Raj’ai, Mohammad Ali,  76
Ramadhan ,  9–10 ,  17 ,  43 ,  63 ,  67
Rashti, Sayyid Kazim,  49–51
Refsanjani, Hujjat ul-Islam Hashemi,
134 ,  142
Sadeqi, Dr. Mohammad,  83 ,  110
Sadjari, Said Hussein,  74
Sadri, Muhammad,  127
Safavid Dynasty,  21–24 ,  30 ,  103 ,
147 ,  148
Samarri, Abul Hassan Ali Ibn
Muhammad
SAVAK,  67–68 ,  71–72 ,  76 ,  81 ,
89–93 ,  116–118 ,  120 ,  123 ,
127 ,  129
Shariati, Dr. Ali,  93 ,  118
Shariatmadari, Ayatollah,  98–99 ,  116
Shaykhiya,  27–28
Shirazi, Sayyid Ali Muhammad,
25 ,  53
Sistani, Ayatollah Ali,  126
Soviet Union,  37 ,  41 ,  112
Sunnah,  viii ,  3 ,  5 ,  8 ,  65 ,  80–81 ,
125–126
Tabarsi, Rebellion in Sheikh,  53
Taqia ,  7 ,  123–124
Taqi-Tajar, Hajj Muhammad,  74
Tasavof ,  83
Tudeh Party,  40 ,  42–43 ,  66 ,  71 ,  73 ,
76 ,  81 ,  100–101 ,  106–107 ,  112 ,  114 ,
121 ,  123
Unasi, Hojjat ul-Islam,  125
Usuliyya School (also Usuli),  22–28 ,
32 ,  50 ,  77–78 ,  101 ,  103–104 ,  147
Velayat-i Faqih ,  ix–xi ,  145 ,  149–150
Vilaya (or Wilaya),  28–29
White Revolution,  67–68 ,  73 ,  92 ,
105 ,  119
Yaz ī d Ibn Mu‘āwiya,  4 ,  11
Zahedi, General Fazlollah,  40 ,  43 ,  45 ,
75 ,  87–88