THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-07-28

you may have seen the bbc Newsfile report that on 26 july 1998 radio

Tehran and iranian television quoted the president of the Tehran revo-

lutionary T ribunal, mr. g holam-h ossein rahbar-p our, as saying, “essen-

tially, none of the branches of the court has issued a death sentence for a person named ruhollah rowhani, affiliated to the bahá’í sect. The report

of his execution is a total lie.” The report goes on to say, “None of iran’s

provincial revolutionary courts had issued such a sentence either, he added.” A similar release was made by Agence france presse. This statement by a

leading representative of the iranian judiciary is very significant, in that

it conforms to the islamic revolutionary government’s normal practice of

denying that the b ahá’ís are persecuted in i ran.

contrary to the statement of mr. rahbar-p our, the facts are as stated in

our previous letters about the execution of mr. rú¥u’lláh raw¥ání, namely

that he was arrested in m ashhad in September 1997 on the specious charge

of having converted a young muslim, was held in solitary confinement for

almost the whole of his detention, and was executed on 21 july 1998, the

day after his family had been permitted to visit him for the first time since 277 .5

278.1

278.2

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

65october the previous year. The family was summoned to collect his body

and required, despite their protests, to complete the burial within one hour,

under the supervision of the i ntelligence d epartment.

it has since been established that the authorities gave the family no docu-

mentation about mr. raw¥ání—no court verdicts or death or burial certifi-

cates. his death certificate was seen, however, and on it was written that the

cause of death was suffocation. A security officer tore up this certificate in

front of the family, and arranged for another doctor to write a new death certificate, giving the cause of death as internal disease.

The house of justice was also informed a short time ago that the trial

of four bahá’í prisoners in mashhad—mr. Sírús dhabí¥í-m uqaddam,

mr. h idáyat-káshifí Najafábádí, mr. ‘A¬á’u’lláh þamíd Na¦írízádih and

mr. rú¥u’lláh raw¥ání—took place in the month of bahman ( january/

february) this year, and that they were all sentenced to death. The Su-

preme court in Tehran confirmed the death sentence only in the case of

mr. raw¥ání, and, for technical reasons, returned the cases of the other three to mashhad for a retrial, which took place on 29 April. The prisoners

were not permitted to hire their own lawyers, but their defense was pre-sented by one appointed by the court. The prisoners objected to some of the statements of the advocate on their behalf, and a heated argument between him and the prisoners took place in court. The prisoners were told that the

verdict of the court would take about three months to be issued.

The families of the three prisoners were recently given permission to visit

them every second T uesday. The date of the next scheduled visit is 28 july.

The families are greatly concerned that what happened with mr. raw¥ání

may happen with these prisoners—he was executed the day after the fam-

ily visit. The intelligence department brought the three prisoners to the

memorial service for mr. raw¥ání. This was a most unusual thing to have

happened, and it is feared that it may also be an indication that they may expect the same fate. . . .

Department  of tHe secretariat278.3

278.4

278.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

66279

Visit by Representative of the

Bahá’í International Community to the

United Nations to the Pacific Islands

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]