Lights of ‘Irfán

Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Eight

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views
of their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly
indicated,
with
the
exception
of
provisional
translations, which are not to be further distributed.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Eight
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Editing Assistance Omid Nolley
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
164 B.E. 2007 C.E.
Copyright © 2007, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Artwork by Trey Yancy
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Printed in Canada by Minuteman Press, Vancouver

O My servants! Through the might of God and
His power, and out of the treasury of His knowledge
and wisdom, I have brought forth and revealed unto you
the pearls that lay concealed in the depths of His
everlasting ocean. I have summoned the Maids of
Heaven to emerge from behind the veil of concealment,
and have clothed them with these words of Mine —
words of consummate power and wisdom. I have,
moreover, with the hand of divine power, unsealed the
choice wine of My Revelation, and have wafted its
holy, its hidden, and musk-laden fragrance upon all
created things. Who else but yourselves is to be blamed if
ye choose to remain unendowed with so great an
outpouring of God’s transcendent and all-encompassing
grace, with so bright a revelation of His resplendent
mercy?
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 327-8

Table of Contents

Preface...................................................................................................... i
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz.................................. 1
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan ............................................................................ 11
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour......................................................................... 35
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The Bahá’í
Revelation and the “Teaching and Spirit of the Cause” in
Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel....................................................................... 53
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge...................................................................................... 125
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin............................................................................ 179
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean ................................................................................ 203
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen........................................................................... 257
The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani ............................................................................. 299
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie....................................................... 309
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli ....................................... 323
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas.......................................................................... 363
(continued on back)

Elucidations
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb
Part 1: Memorandum from the Research Department..................387
Part 2: Will and Testament of the Báb.........................................392
Part 3: Making the Crooked Straight ...........................................393
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian..........................................395
Daniel’s Prophecies ..............................................................................405
Appendices
Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and abbreviations used in this book....413
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Seven...................................415
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia ....................................................422

Preface

“If the Bahá’ís want to be really effective in teaching the
Cause, they need to discuss intelligently, intellectually,
the present condition of the world and its problems.
We need Bahá’í scholars, not only people far, far more
deeply aware of what our teachings really are, but also
well-read
and
well-educated
people,
capable
of
correlating our teachings to the current thoughts of the
leaders of society. We Bahá’ís should, in other words,
arm our minds with knowledge in order to better
demonstrate to, especially, the educated classes, the
truths enshrined in our Faith.” (Letter written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer, 5 July 1949, quoted in
Scholarship 4)
The main goal of the Irfán Colloquia and publications is to
facilitate and promote what is recommended by Shoghi Effendi
in the above-mentioned guidance. In addition to individual
efforts in acquiring deeper and systematic knowledge of the
Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith and
contemporary trends of thoughts of leaders of society, certain
collective and cooperative actions are also necessary in order
to maximize the benefits of such endeavors. Irfán activities
attempt to provide various opportunities and vehicles for such
collaborative efforts and presentation and discussion of the
end results of deeper and systematic studies in the fundamental
principles of the Bahá’í belief system, their application to the
current challenges facing humanity, and comparative studies
of various religious trends and different schools of thought
from a Bahá’í perspective.
Irfán Colloquia are annually organized and conducted in
Europe and North America in English, Persian and German.
These gatherings provide open forums for exchanges of studies
and research findings, as well as team-building among those
interested and engaged in such scholarly activities. The
abstracts of all the presentations and the text of selected papers
delivered at those colloquia are published in three series of

Preface
ii
Abstracts booklets and annual collections of articles in
English, Persian and German.
This volume presents a collection of 12 research papers. Four
of the papers present studies in the Bahá’í scriptural texts:
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Law˙-i-Maryam” by Julio Savi and Faezeh
Mardani, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s “Tablet on the Functioning of the
Universal House of Justice” by Moojan Momen, Shoghi
Effendi’s “Enfoldment of World’s Civilization” by James
Thomas, and “Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi
Effendi” by Jack McLean. The articles on Law˙-i-Maryam and
Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
include a provisional translation of those Tablets.
Fundamental principles of the Bahá’í belief system are dealt
with in the articles on “Bahá’í Covenant” by Ali Nakhjavani,
“Word is the Master Key” by Wolfgang Klebel, and “Bahá’í
Faith and Pluralism” by Grant Martin.
Comparative studies are presented in “Buddhism and the
Bahá’í Writings” by Ian Kluge, “Minimalism from Bahá’í
Perspective” by Mahyad Rahnamaie, and “Mysticism East and
West” by Farhang Jahanpour. These papers attempt to deal
with various religious trends and schools of thought.
The fourth category of papers is archival studies. Youli
Ioannessyan introduces the content of one of the richest
collections of documents on early development of the Bahá’í
Faith that were collected by famous Russian Orientalist, Baron
Rose. “Chronicle of a Birth” by Amin Egea is the third section
of introducing references to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain. The first two sections were published in the Lights of
Irfán, Books Five and Seven.
The section on ELUCIDATIONS includes three memoranda
from the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice providing clarifying information on the following
subjects: Tablet of the Báb addressed to Mírzá Yahyá Azal,
authenticity of the contents of the letters written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi, and Daniel’s prophesies. These memoranda and
their enclosed documents present the results of careful search
in the Writings and provide clarifying responses to some

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
iii
important questions. They offer valuable information for
research and studies in Bahá’í Faith.
For those readers interested to know the topics of the papers
published in previous volumes of the Lights of Irfán, Appendix
II presents a list of all those papers. Listing of the papers
published in various volumes of the Lights of Irfán provides
preliminary familiarity with the range, types, methodological
approaches and quality of the papers that are welcome to be
presented at the Irfán Colloquia and published in the Lights of
Irfán. In addition to the papers presented at the Irfán
Colloquia, research papers related to the main goals of the Irfán
Colloquium may also be directly submitted for publication in
the Lights of Irfán.
Starting from Book Six we have adopted two changes in the
‘Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix I, “Bibliography of
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations
from Sacred Writings, (not including statements by Shoghi
Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All
papers
in
this
volume
present
the
views
and
understandings of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. The writing styles and
scholarly approaches are therefore different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the author’s last names.






Iraj Ayman






Chicago, May 2007

Chronicles of a Birth
Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Translated by Francisco J. Díaz
On a previous occasion 1 we reviewed Spain’s earliest
references to Babism. We saw, for example, how news of the
uprising in Zanján and the Báb’s martyrdom received some
national press coverage in 1850. We also demonstrated how the
assassination attempt against the young monarch Násiri’d-Dín
Sháh in August 1852 received the same amount of coverage in
Spain as in other parts of the West. Daily newspapers also gave
extensive coverage to the persecution of Bábís in Persia as a
result of the foiled plot against the monarch, and, even as late
as July 1853, some Spanish dailies continued to offer related
news, a fact which gave us the opportunity to comment briefly
on what might have been the actual extent of such persecutions.
Finally, after considering the readership of each of the daily
newspapers reporting stories about the Bábís, we ventured a
guess as to the potential number of readers that might have
learned about the new religion for the first time.
As we shall now see, additional stories about the infant
religion continued trickling into Spain.
Enciclopedia Moderna
Between 1851 and 1855, Francisco de Paula Mellado, a
prolific author, was finishing in Madrid what was to become
the first truly comprehensive Spanish encyclopedia of the
nineteenth century, the Enciclopedia Moderna, Diccionario

Chronicles of a Birth
universal de literatura, ciencias, artes, agricultura, industria y
comercio [Modern Encyclopedia/Unabridged Dictionary of
Literature,
Science,
Art,
Agriculture,
Industry,
and
Commerce]. The work was actually an adapted and enlarged
version of a French encyclopedia bearing the same name and
published by the Firmin Didot brothers several years earlier
(1846-1851). The Spanish version comprised forty volumes in
total. Volume 30 was published in 1854 and contained a
reproduction of the definition pertaining to “Persia.” The
French version identifies the author of the article as A.
Bouchot, about whom no further information has yet come to
light.
The author’s exposition on the history of Persia concludes
with the reign of Mu˙ammad Sháh, to wit: “The son of Feth-Alí,
Abbas Mírzá (1831-1833) did nothing of great account and was
succeeded by Mahomed-Mírzá [sic] (1833-1848). The events
surrounding this prince’s reign are too recent to warrant any
further analysis.” Bouchot then immediately describes briefly
Persia’s fragile state at the time, concluding the final paragraph
of his article as follows:
Today she thus finds herself gripped by a decadence
that cannot last much longer, inasmuch as the prince
now governing her is incapable of asserting his power;
he has neither revenues nor a navy nor an army to speak
of, unless these are the terms applied to a bunch of
unruly soldiers whom he calls upon at his pleasure and
on whom he relies so infrequently that he chooses to live
among his tribesmen, the only ones he feels safe and
secure with. If we add to this the ruin of her trade and
commerce, so vibrant in times past, a weakened
agriculture, excessive taxation, setback after setback,
anarchy, and the subversive doctrines propagated by
the Báb’s disciples, who preach communion of their
property and their women, we cannot but admire how
Persia has resisted for so long such powerful forces of
destruction.2
Thus we have here a reference to Babism that could not have
been penned any later than 1851, and which is very likely older.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Bouchot’s statement that the Bábís practiced “communion
of their property and their women” was not gratuitous; rather,
his article merely reflects a fairly typical misunderstanding
about Babism during the movement’s early years. 3 The reasons
for such an accusation are varied, Lord Curzon would
comment years later: “Certainly no such idea as communism in
the European sense, i.e., a forcible redistribution of property,
or as socialism in the nineteenth century sense, i.e., the defeat
of capital by labour, ever entered the brain of the Bab [sic] or
his
disciples.
The
only
communism
known
to
and
recommended by him was that of the New Testament and the
early Christian Church, viz., the sharing of goods in common
by members of the faith, and the exercise of almsgiving, and an
ample charity. The charge of immorality seems to have arisen
partly from the malignant inventions of opponents, partly
from the much greater freedom claimed for women by the Bab
[sic], which in the Oriental mind is scarcely dissociable from
profligacy of conduct….”4
1857 — False Rumors
For certain, the assassination attempt against Násiri’d-Dín
Sháh in 1852 did little to dispel this misunderstanding about
Babism. As we already saw, Persia’s religious and political
authorities took advantage of the incident not only to rid
themselves of as many Bábís as they could, but also to foster an
aura of ill will against their movement.
In October 1856, Persia annexed the predominantly Shí’a
Afghan province of Herat. This maneuver by Násiri’d-Dín Sháh
helped to destabilize the region’s fragile balance of power and
eventually led to war with Great Britain. Persia’s defeat was
swift, and the impact which the conflict had on the state’s
coffers led to nationwide public disaffection bordering on
civil war.
The Spanish and European press alike provided extensive, in-
depth coverage of the conflict. On November 17, 1852, El
Estado, a Madrid daily newspaper, published the following
story in an article about the country’s domestic situation:

Chronicles of a Birth
Several foreign newspapers have written about a plot
against the life of the shah [sic] perpetrated by an
individual belonging to the Bábí [sic] sect. Le Pays
categorically denies this account.5
This denial probably reached Spain by way of the news
agency Havas, which likely was not the one that distributed
news of the alleged attempt against the Sháh, or at least that is
what can be deduced after verifying that Spain’s major daily
newspapers that subscribed to the Havas Bureau did not
publish such information.6
It would not be the last time that the Western press wrongly
implicated the Bábís in assassination attempts, whether real or
imagined, against the Sháh of Persia. It happened again in
1869,7 1878,8 and twice again in 1896.9
The 1860s
In 1862, an expanded translation of Charles Dreyss’s
Cronología Universal was published in Madrid. Its author,
Antonio Ferrer del Río, based his translation on the second
French edition (1858). The entry for the year 1852 mentions the
assassination attempt against the Sháh and the execution of
400 Bábís. That we are aware of, no mention of the religion is
made again in any Spanish reference works other than the
Enciclopedia Moderna and Cronología Universal until 1876.
In 1865, two highly significant works were published
simultaneously in France that would have a decisive influence
on the West’s understanding of Babism. One was Mírzá
Kazem-Beg’s Báb et les Bábís, which, beginning that year, was
published in installments in the Journal Asiatique. The other
was Les Religions et les Philosophies dans l’Asie centrale by
Count Joseph A. de Gobineau.
Gobineau’s work achieved much greater popularity. Though
not exempt from historical errors or critical omissions, the
book greatly influenced oriental studies of the period and
awakened a certain sympathy toward the nascent religion in
intellectual and public opinion circles.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Few in Spain came to know Kazem-Beg’s work. Gobineau’s
book, on the other hand, was very favorably received. Most
Spanish authors, as well as the mass media that mentioned
Babism from that moment on, based themselves on Gobineau’s
work, mirroring both its vices and its virtues.
The first publication in Spain taking material directly from
Gobineau in its coverage of Babism appeared in 1868, when the
first Spanish translation of Ernst Renan’s Les Apôtres [The
Apostles] was published in Barcelona by the printer “La
Ilustración.” It is quite probable that this publication was
originally a supplement in one of the daily newspapers and
journals distributed by that publisher, although no such proof
has yet been found to substantiate this suspicion. One year
later, the same work was published by José Codina, another
Barcelona printer.
Juan Valera
One of the nineteenth century’s most outstanding writers
and thinkers was Juan Valera (1824-1905). Holding degrees in
philosophy and jurisprudence, Valera had a long diplomatic
and political career. He worked in several consulates in Europe
and South America prior to his being appointed ambassador in
Frankfurt (1865). He would later serve as ambassador in Lisbon;
Washington, D.C.; and Brussels. In 1858, he was elected as a
member of the Spanish Parliament, and in 1872 he accepted a
senior post within the Ministry of State Education. Also
worthy of mention, from a cultural standpoint, are his
inductions in 1861 into Spain’s Royal Academy of the Spanish
Language, and in 1904 into the Royal Academy of Moral and
Political Sciences.
As a writer, he was a prolific novelist and essayist. He was
also a renowned correspondent. Among his most famous
novels are Pepita Jiménez and Juanita la Larga.
In 1868, he submitted his article titled Sobre el concepto que
hoy se forma de España [Perceptions of Spain Today], which
was published simultaneously in the magazines La América and
La Revista de España.10 In it, Valera attempted to tackle the
issue of Spain’s decadence at the time and how the country was

Chronicles of a Birth
perceived by the rest of Europe. In the first section of his
article he posits his theory about the fate of civilizations. To
Valera, peoples and races do not perish, but rather alternate
between periods of decadence and remarkable achievement. He
perceives the peoples of Aryan descent as best exemplifying his
theory and, after reviewing the cases pertaining to other
nations, has this to say about Persia:
Persia succumbs to Alexander’s rule, but once again
becomes a powerful, formidable, and feared rival of the
Roman Empire under the Sassanid dynasty. In the time
of the Ghazna sultans, during the Middle Ages, Persia’s
civilization shines with extraordinary splendor. Her
epic and lyrical poets, her arts and sciences of the time
are superior to those of the rest of the world. Later on,
her philosophical and religious schools and sects begin
to flourish, as well as the lyrical, and even dramatic,
poetry that comes into being there in our own age.
Recently, the strange historical phenomenon marked by
the appearance and spread of Babism [sic] has made
evident the intellectual and moral vigor of that race,
that perchance it may become regenerated and arise
anew to the heights of its sister European races, when a
more fertile and noble coming into being arrives to
awaken and bestir it.11
Valera was not to be the only Spanish author that would see
in Babism a new hope for Persia’s progress. Nor would this be
his last reference to the new religion.
In October/November 1889, he published an article titled La
Religión de la Humanidad [Humanity’s Religion] in La España
Moderna.12 It was in fact a letter addressed to Chilean
philosopher Enrique Lagarrigue (1852-1927). Both authors
maintained an interesting correspondence in which they
debated the role and future of religion. Valera, contrary to
Lagarrigue, believed in the vigor and usefulness of religion.
Throughout the development of his argument, he writes:
I believe that we are living squarely in an age of faith,
and that if losing it signifies progress, then we could
scarcely boast about progress. Even now, in the middle
of this century, in 1847, a new religion has appeared in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Persia, one which has made rivers of blood to flow and
given the world untold martyrs. This religion’s moral
core is very pure and tender-hearted; its sacred
writings, highly poetic; its beliefs and its love in god
and of god [sic], profound. Count Gobineau and Mr.
Franck, of the French Institute, have set out its
doctrines and written the history of this recent
religion, Babism, whose cardinal dogma is god’s [sic]
incarnation in nineteen persons.
Upon comparing these two excerpts from Valera’s writings
against excerpts about Babism from other Spanish authors of
the period, we see that they are highly representative of the
approach taken by Spanish intellectuals in the final decades of
the nineteenth century toward Babism.
Diccionario Universal
Following the publication in 1862 of Charles Dreyss’s
Cronología Universal, we know of no other reference work in
Spanish that mentions Babism until 1876, the year in which the
second volume of the Diccionario Universal edited by Nicolás
María Serrano was published.
Said volume contained definitions for the entries Bab and
Babism [sic]. All of the information contained in both volumes
is clearly taken from Gobineau’s Religions et Philosophies. The
term Bab [sic] is defined thus:
Bab [sic]: Biog. Celebrated Persian reformer born in
1825 and killed when he was barely thirty years old; his
actual name was Mírzá-Alí-Mohammed [sic]; he
belonged to the middle class and had received a
rigorous education; he planted, so to speak, the seeds
of a new doctrine destined perhaps to transform
Islamism; always occupied with pious works, he had
extraordinarily simple habits and a pleasing tender-
heartedness, revealing these gifts through a marvelously
enchanting personality and a kindly and penetrating
eloquence of speech: he was incapable, those that knew
him attested, of uttering anything without shaking the
very core of the hearts of his listeners; his doctrine,

Chronicles of a Birth
which borrows somewhat from Greek philosophy, is
full of flowery phrases reminiscent of a “Paradise of
roses.”
In defining the term Babism [sic], the dictionary provides an
article comprising ten columns divided into two sections—
Historia del Babismo [History of Babism] and Exposición de la
Doctrina del Babismo [Exposition of the Doctrine of
Babism]—preceded by a preamble. In total, the article
comprises four pages summarizing point by point the very
topics Gobineau covered in the chapters he devoted to Babism.
As can be gleaned from the quote above, the tone that is used is
highly positive. Indeed, it is the very tone that has been
generally employed since then, and well into the twentieth
century, by all dictionaries and encyclopedias containing an
entry pertaining to Babism. Consequently, it replicates those
same conceptual and historical errors committed by Gobineau.
It is especially interesting to see how the figure of Táhirih is
dealt with: “Not for nothing has a woman been one of the
staunchest of apostles, one of the most valiant of martyrs of
this new religion; in Guret-ul-Ayn [sic] (the Eloquent, the
Beautiful), the entire female sex has been liberated, ennobled,
glorified; reduced by Islamism to the condition of mere
objects, women in Asia will henceforth be considered as
persons.” And further on: “Her beauty, her spirit, her
eloquence, her knowledge, her singular exaltation is forever
engraved in the memory of those that witnessed this drama.”
In late 1876, Francisco García Ayuso published his Iran [sic]
o del Indo al Tigris [Iran or From the Indus to the Tigris],
devoting three pages to Babism. Meanwhile, his pupil, diplomat
Adolfo Rivadeneyra, was making his way to Persia. His
chronicle of the trip included a lengthy explanation of the faith
taught by the Báb. Several years later, in 1889, Násiri’d-Dín
Sháh visited Europe for his third and final time. As a result, the
Spanish press, as it had done in 1873, made mention of the
Bábís yet again. One important writer, Countess Emilia Pardo
Bazán, was able to meet the Sháh. On account of this
encounter, that same year she would write Un Diocleciano [A
Diocletian (alluding to Roman emperor Gaius Aurelius Valerius
Diocletanius, noted for his persecution of Christians)], a work

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
whose title hints at its stirring content. We will, on another
occasion, deal with this and other subjects in greater detail
when we explore references made to the Faith from late 1876
until 1895.

NOTES
1 Chronicles of a Birth, Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
in Spain (1850-1853), in Lights of ‘Irfán, Vol. V.
2 Enciclopedia Moderna, Diccionario universal de literatura, ciencias, artes,
agricultura, industria y comercio. Establecimiento Mellado, Madrid,
1854, Vol. XXX, p. 102.
3 This accusation is also reflected in diplomatic correspondence of the
period; see Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, George Ronald:
Oxford, 1981, pp. 5-8.
4 George N. Curzon, Persia and the Persian Question, Vol. I, Longmans,
Green & Co., 1892, pp. 501-502.
5 El Estado, Madrid, November 17, 1857, p. 1. On November 18, this same
story was published in at least two other Madrid daily newspapers: El
Clamor Público and La Esperanza.
6 The author is aware of two other news stories published that year
mentioning the Bábís. Both appear in the Finnish daily newspaper
Allmänna Tidning. The first one is dated March 13, 1857, and is based
on information from the Indépendant Belgue; the second one is dated
April 16 and is based on information from the Journal de
Constantinople.
7 See The Times, London, August 19, 1869, p. 10.
8 See, for example, El Monitor Republicano, Mexico, July 2, 1878.
9 The events of 1896 will be dealt with briefly on another occasion. Suffice
it to say that the “Bábís” were accused of assassinating Náßiri’d-Dín
Sháh on May 2 of that year and of allegedly plotting against Muzaffar
ad-Dín Sháh in June of that same year.
10 La América, Madrid, March 28, 1868, Vol. XII, Issue 6; Revista de
España, Madrid, March 13, 1868, Vol. I, Issue 1.
11 Valera lists Gobineau’s Religions et Philosophies and Adolph Franck’s
Philosophie et Religion in a bibliographical footnote.
12 La España Moderna, Madrid, November 1889, Vol. I, Issue 40. The
article was later published in the book titled Nuevas Cartas Americanas
(Madrid, 1890), which went through several reprintings.

Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of
Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Baron V. R. Rosen after his death left behind a vast
collection of unpublished materials which among other things
are of extreme value for the study of the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths
as well as for research on the Bábí and Bahá’í studies in Europe
especially for those interested in having an historical
perspective. These materials are preserved in the Archive of the
Russian Academy of Sciences in St. Petersburg, Russia. They
comprise Rosen’s correspondence with A. G. Tumanski, E. G.
Browne (the larger part of the collection), Y. Batyushkov,
academic Oldenburg, V. I. Ignatyev, Sebastyan Vuarot, I.
Kheyrulláh.
Of special importance are manuscripts (and copies of
manuscripts), official reports of Russian diplomats from
Persia on the Bábís and reports from Adrianople on the Bábís
residing there at the same time when Bahá’u’lláh was exiled in
Adrianople.
It would be relevant to say a few words about the key figures
featuring in the given collection of materials.
A Russian aristocrat of German descent, Baron Victor
Romanovich Rosen (1849-1908) was an academic, professor of
Arabic, head of the Oriental Branch of the Russian
Archeological Society, and the translator of several Bahá’í
Writings into Russian. He prepared for publication in the
original Arabic and Persian a volume of Epistles by Bahá’u’lláh
and left profound descriptions of many Bábí and Bahá’í
manuscripts which now belong to the manuscript collection of
the St. Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies
of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Rosen also properly
identified some important Epistles such as the Surih-i-Muluk

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
(The Surih of the Kings) as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. He
encouraged his students A. G. Tumanski and others to collect
and study materials related to the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths.
Alexandr Grigoryevich Tumanski (born in 1861), who
belonged to an old Lithuanian aristocratic stock, was Rosen’s
student. When he was a young captain in the Russian Imperial
army, and while he was serving in the Turkistan region, namely
in Ashkabad, he came into close contact with the recently
established Bahá’í community there. He undertook a trip to
Persia arranged by Bahá’ís and sanctioned by the Russian
authorities to collect information about the Bahá’ís in Persia.
He was accompanied on his trip by his young wife, and his
journey to Persia at that time was a real adventure. Among
Tumanski’s good friends was prominent Bahá’í scholar Abu’l-
Fa∂l Gulpáygání. Tumanski was the first translator of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas into a European language (Russian). According
to Professor Akimushkin of St. Petersburg, after the so called
Bolshevik October Revolution, Tumanski fled with his family
into Turkey and died in 1920 on the Prince Islands. His
descendents live in Belgium.
The third prominent figure whose correspondence is
contained in the archive is the British orientalist E. G. Browne,
who does not need any introduction. His letters to Rosen form
the largest part of the preserved correspondences in the
Archive. The above three figures were pioneers of the Bábí and
Bahá’í studies in Europe.
Also represented in the collection of materials are:
1. Academic Oldenbourg, who mentions the Bábís in his
letter to Rosen;
2. Vladimir Ivanovich Ignatyev — another of Rosen’s
University students, diplomat working in Tehran,
Ashkabad and Bukhara;
3. Yu. Batyushkov — Persian and Arabic scholar and
diplomat working in Tehran in 1893-1899;
4. Sebastian Vuarot — a French Bahá’í.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Let us now briefly describe the materials preserved in the
Archive collection. They consist of the following items:
1. Tumanski’s letters to Rosen, which date 1892-1899. These
comprise over 23 letters (in Russian). The latter deal with
a wide range of issues: the Bábí community in Ashkabad,
the translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (and related issues),
Tumanski’s trip to Persia and some information he
gathered there about the Bahá’ís, other subjects. Among
these is a news-paper “Kavkaz” article on the ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh by Tumanski in which he gives an unbiased
account of the history of the Bahá’í Faith and calls
Bahá’u’lláh “a prophet.”
2. Browne’s correspondence with Rosen comprises 73
letters, dating 1889-1902 (one letter is in Persian, the rest
are in English). These letters too cover a very wide range
of issues and show in what close cooperation with Rosen
Browne was doing his research on the Bábí and Bahá’í
Faiths. From these letters one, for example, finds out that
Browne used for his work both manuscript copies of the
Persian Bayán from the St. Petersburg manuscript
collection, made available for him owing to Rosen.
3. Ignatyev’s correspondence with Rosen comprises 3
letters (in Russian). These throw light on the stance of
Russia’s Foreign Ministry on the Bábí/Bahá’í issue and
reveal the differences between the Foreign Ministry and
the Russian authorities in Turkistan in this respect.
4. Batyushkov’s correspondence with Rosen consists of 3
letters (in Russian), revealing Batyushkov’s attraction to
the Bahá’í Faith and his protective attitude towards it.
5. Sebastian Voirot’s letter (in French) throws some light on
the French Bahá’í community of the time.
6. Kheyrulláh, who was put in touch with Rosen by Browne,
offers Rosen his book in his letter (in English).
7. Official reports of Russian diplomats in Persia on the
Bábís/Bahá’ís (one is in French, the rest are in Russian
written in a Russian script specially modified to make its
reading difficult). These cover a period of 1855-1879.

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Among them is a report by the Russian Charge d’Affaire
in Tehran Mr. Zinovyev to Duke Gorchakov (in French).
8. “The Bábís in Adrianople” — a report by the head of the
Russian Consulate in Adrianople based on eye-witness
accounts (the report was compiled in Russian on Rosen’s
request).
9. Manuscripts:
• The Law˙-i-Samsun (in Arabic) also known as the
Law˙-i-Hawdaj (Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in
Samsun
on
his
way
to
Constantinople).
The
manuscript is preserved in an excellent condition.
• The Law˙-i-Jawad (3 pages in Persian).
• A chapter from the Qayyúm al-Asmá (‘chapter of
Josef’) in Arabic.
• Prayers
• ‘History of Haji Mu˙ammad Riza’ — a history in
Persian of the martyrdom of Haji Mu˙ammad Riza
Isfahani in Ashkabad, manuscript in Abu-l-Fazl
Gulpáygání’s hand.
All the above manuscripts (except for the Law˙-i-Jawad,
included into Rosen’s Volume of Epistles by Bahá’u’lláh)
have not so far been available for general public, because
they have been preserved in the Archive, which accounts
for their excellent condition. They are not described in
any published descriptive catalogue of manuscripts.
10. Two letters in Judeo-Persian1 with a translation into
regular Persian, giving an account of the events which
happened to Bábís (Bahá’ís) of Jewish background in Iran
and the persecutions they suffered. One letter is
addressed by Agha Sulayman ‘Attar Hamadani from
Tehran to Agha Sulayman Shalfurush Hamadani in
Ashkabad.
11. A letter written by Abu’l-Fa∂l Gulpáygání to Tumanski
(in Persian) on behalf of Abdu’l-Bahá. The letter is
probably a transcript of Gulpáygání’s original letter.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
From Tumanski’s and Browne’s correspondences with Rosen
we would know many interesting facts. For example, we can
retrace fully how these two scholars were proceeding with their
work on the translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and the study of
the Persian Bayán respectively. We would also know that
Abdu’l-Bahá was originally against the publication of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas
and
would
find
out
what
were
the
considerations behind this objection. We would know that
Tumanski chose to wait for the Master’s consent and approval.
We would also find out why Browne after so much labor on the
manuscripts was eventually forced to cut his work on the
Persian Bayán in the middle and give up his attempts to publish
it. Since these letters contain and touch upon so many various
subjects, it is impossible to class them according to their
content. So I arrange them chronologically, sometimes
emphasizing the main subject of the letter or quote. All the
Russian language materials are quoted in this presentation in
my English translation. I would start with Tumanski and
several of his letters dated 1892:
The Bábí [community] in Ashkabad consists of very
interesting members. Many of them have been
witnesses of and participants in very interesting
events. Some of them personally knew the Báb. The
most interesting of all the Bábís is my friend whom I
met last year, a Samarkand dweller, who came to
Ashkabad for the sole purpose of helping me translate
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas…
Also I managed to obtain autographs of Bahá’u’lláh2
and the Báb. I have also been promised a photo of the
house in Akka. As for the picture [of Bahá’u’lláh], it
cannot be obtained. The Tarikh-i-Sayyah (Traveller’s
Narrative) mentions a drawing of the Russian Consul.
The Bábís are very eager to know whom exactly that
drawing was by and whether you are familiar with this
drawing. If it were possible to make a copy or take
picture of it this could afford great pleasure to
Bahá’u’lláh… [February 28, 1892]
Having received the news of the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh
Tumanski wrote:

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
It has finally occurred. The page is turned over. ﺁﻥ
ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺹﻉﻭﺩ ﺭﻡﻭﺩﻩﻑ (‘His Holiness has ascended’) —
These are the words in which the Bábís of Ashkabad
informed me of the passing away of Beha… [July 3, 1892]
He published an article about this event in the newspaper
‘Kavkaz,’ from which I will read you a quote:
A report has been received the other day about the
death of the Head of the Bábís and their prophet, which
occurred in Akka…, Syria on 16 May 3. This is a
remarkable person, who managed to attract about a
million followers in different parts of Persia and
accorded to Bábíism the peace-loving nature which is
now characteristic of the adherents of this religion.
This teaching has made a proud shi’ih Persian, who
accepts friendship only with his coreligionists and fully
turns his back on people of other beliefs (tabarra’ va
tavalla), into a humble person, a Bábí, who considers
everybody to be his brother.
Bahá’u’lláh, whose original name was Mírzá Óusayn
Núrí, was born on 1 November 1817. He was a son of
Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, the former minister (vazir) of Fath
Ali Shah. He spent his youth in his father’s house, where
constantly moving around cultured and educated
people he displayed at quite an early age great mental
capacity and a wonderful moral mindset… [July 9, 1892]
About the publication of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas with his Russian
translation Tumanski tells Rosen the following:
On the publishing [of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas] I recently
received a letter from Mírzá Abu’l-Fazl, in which he
asks me to delay the publication due to the Most Great
Branch (Ghusn-i-‘Azam)’s concern about the possible
consequences [of such a publication] for them.
Enclosed is a copy of the letter. In response to this
letter I wrote Mírzá [Abu’l-Fazl] to reassure their
[community] head, saying that no harm would be
caused to them by a Russian translation and that I
would not proceed with its publication unless I got the
permission of his Holiness (hazrat).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Tumanski goes on to say:
I have to be on good terms with them, as Bahá’u’lláh’s
biography is on its way and this is something which
would be interesting to get. Please, don’t write Browne
about it so that he won’t beat me to it. If an
opportunity presents itself I will translate it together
with extracts from the Tarikh-i-Jadid (Manukchi) [New
History]
and
the
Maqala-yi-Sayyah
[Traveller’s
Narrative]. This would serve as a kind of introduction
to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas… [October 24, 1892]
Several letters are about Tumanski’s trip to Persia. He writes in
one of them:
The Bábís with their stories about Persia greatly
enkindle the flame of my desire to undertake this trip
and draw a picture of a very interesting journey for
me.
God
willing
(en
sha
Alláh).
Of
course
recommendations will not be lacking. By now reports
have gone to many places concerning my forthcoming
arrival… The point is that to make this trip secret has
not worked out, because from the very first this whole
affaire has not been handled quietly and before my
arrival in Ashkabad almost everybody had already
known about my forthcoming business trip, and surely
inferred that the Bábís were the main purpose of it… I
can only count on the negligence of the Persians
themselves and fear lest the English should get in my
way…
Is there any news from Browne? How is he getting on
with the Bábís [corrected into] Bahá’ís. Has he got
along with or most probably broken further apart from
them because of his publication of Subh-i-Azal’s
portrait and writings?… [January 9, 1893]
An extract from another letter shows how Tumanski was
proceeding with his work on the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
In the next mail I am sending you the translation of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas with footnotes. As for the supplements
only three of them are ready so far, namely: 1) an
extract from the Tablet to Karim Khan, the Shaykhi, 2)

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
a translation of the Tablet on the elementary reality
(basit al-haqiqa), in which Bahá’u’lláh touches upon
pantheism, 3) a Tablet about the Sufis.4 I also intend to
add a few Tablets containing commandments (ahkam).
No real news so far. Just an increased activity in Bábí’s
visiting Akka can be seen. A treatise titled Risala-yi-
Siyaysiya has recently been received from the Most
Great Branch (Ghusn-i-`Azam), of which I will give you
an account, for I am planning to include its content
into my Introduction. In the meanwhile it is now time
to end. Let peace and Bahá’ abide upon you. [January 21,
1894]
The closing line of the above letter merits special attention.
Tumanski uses this expression: ‘let Bahá abide upon you’ in the
closing part of several of his letters. On one occasion
Batyushkov does the same in his reference to E. G. Browne. He
says: alayhi Bahá (“let Bahá abide upon him”).
Meanwhile Tumanski ran into some difficulties with the
Russian authorities while arranging his trip to Persia. Baron
Rosen as it is clear from the given correspondence was
instrumental in paving Tumanski’s way to that country. After
sharing with Rosen some details of his itinerary Tumanski says:
It is going to be organized in the following way. A
report will be sent to Akka concerning my journey, and
a circular letter will be sent out from there requesting
the believers as part of their obligation to give me full
assistance. I don’t know how to thank you for all this.
My fiancée and I are completely delighted. The Bábís
are also jubilant, while giving their praises (zikr’es) they
are promising me the most exciting trip. One of them
will be sent from Ashkabad to accompany me on my
journey… [January 17, 1894]
As his journey was drawing to a close Tumanski wrote:
I have almost finished my journey. I cannot say that it
was an easy one. Though I was never exposed to a real
danger, I had a lot of troubles… As to the Bábís I can
say that almost everywhere where they exist I came into
contact with them and this will be the subject of my

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
special note which I will include into my report…
[October 28, 1894]
Tumanski takes up this issue in another letter after the
completion of his trip. This letter dated January 4, 1895 is of
special interest for in it Tumanski among other things gives
statistical data about the Bábís living in different parts of
Persia. He, for example, says:
Their total number mustn’t exceed 100000 or 150000.
The figure given by Curson and quoted by Browne is to
the best of my knowledge exaggerated. However, this by
no means detracts from their importance. Presently
there is an especially large number of Bábís in Tehran,
among whom you can find very high-ranking and
influential people. Moreover, Bábíism also serves as a
banner around which elements unhappy with the
existing regime group together. Among these there are
some very influential khans and chiefs of nomadic
tribes… I personally met two highly influential
Baktiyari khans and an Arab shaykh from Fars…
Although Batyushkov’s letters are few, they also contain
some very interesting information.5 For example, in a letter
dated January 18, 1894 he writes about Mírzá Yahyá:
Finally about Subh-i-Azal, he is said to be dragging out
a very miserable existence now. For his sons, who are
almost his only adherents, leave no hope for a bright
future, though they have traveled extensively around the
world. By the way, they have often been to…,6 but
without
showing
any
tendencies
to
preoccupy
themselves with the salvation of either their souls or
other people’s. The rest of the Bábís have already
become convinced of the meaning of the words of
Nuqta-yi-Awla, that Bahá had to be in concealment for
9 years in order to be saved from an inevitable death.
Therefore [Subh-i-Azal’s] role is limited to this period…
In another letter to Rosen, dated June 3, 1899, Batyushkov
writes:
Valentin Alekseevitch7 tells me that Tumanski’s
publication of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas is nearing completion

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
if not already completed. You, surely, know of what
importance it is for Persia and how greatly demanded
it would be. Some people already made inquires to me
about it and therefore I am wondering if the
translation is printed together with the [original] text
or separately and in the latter case, if it is possible to
have the original text alone. In case of your positive
[reply to this question] I would ask you to do me a
favor by sending me about 20 copies of the text with
the translation and 80 copies of the [original] text
without the translation…
Ignatyev’s letters are no less interesting. They enlighten us as
to the Russian authorities’ approach to the Bahá’í Faith and to
some controversy characteristic of this approach. Thus
Ignatyev wrote:
When
correspondence
about
granting
Russian
citizenship to the Bábís living in Ashkabad started our
Envoy
in
Tehran
informed
the
Head
of
the
[Transcaspian] Region, that about the spread of the
Bábís in Persia there could only be made conjectural
assumptions, but there was reason to believe that the
number of the Báb’s followers reached a million. They
are spread among all the strata of society including the
upper class. Presently it is still more difficult to judge
how successful the propaganda of the Báb’s teaching is.
Among the Sunnis the followers of the sect are very
few.8 A Persian told me with certainty that even some
Armenians (of the Armenian-Gregorian Church) in
Ashkabad had recently become Bábís. He did not want
to disclose the names of those Armenians, for they, not
without a good reason, fearing persecution from both
the [Russian] authorities as well as from their own
[former]
coreligionists,
carefully
conceal
their
adoption of Bábíism. It was expected here that Bábíism
was a transitional stage to Christianity and apparently
it was hoped that the Bábís, having seen so much
kindness, not only would agree to adopt the Russian
Orthodox Church’s form of Christianity but would
moreover have a beneficial effect on other Moslems.
However, the opposite has happened: Christians

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
became Bábís, while not a single Bábí has so far, to the
best of my knowledge, embraced Christianity. If others
follow the two Armenians’ suite, then certain
measures, surely, will have to be taken…
From here Ignatyev goes on to say:
It is taken for granted that neither Russia nor England
have any reason to support the Bábís, and it seems
inconceivable to me that such a reason would ever (at
least in the foreseeable future) be found… Not a single
European envoy has dared to intercede on behalf of the
persecuted with the Shah during the latest executions of
the Bábís in Yazd…
I have also to disagree with you that our diplomats
should intimidate the Shah using the Bábís and by
making threats of a further support for them coerce the
Shah to fulfill our demands. Firstly, such a threat could
and surely would be ineffective, which would make it
uncomfortable for us. Secondly, as I have already
pointed out above, we can only harm ourselves by such
a threat. For we are going to set against us the vast
majority of Moslems and the clergy. What if the Shah
responds to the threat saying to us: ‘So be it. I will meet
your terms if you do not accept the Bábís in your
country and extradite those whom you have already
accepted’? In what situation shall we find ourselves?
Definitely, under no circumstances can we extradite
the Bábís. Because their extradition would not
correspond to Russia’s image as a great power [March
25, 1892].
Needless to say that the assertion sometimes made in Iran by
some Iranian circles that Bahá’ís were supported and used in
Iran by foreign (Western) powers to promote their own
political aims, in the light of the above confession made by the
high-ranking Russian diplomat, appears totally unfounded. In
another letter to Rosen Ignatyev touches upon the passing of
some Bahá’í Writings to Russian officials:
In reply to your letter dated April 8, which I received
on 20th I need to inform you urgently that for some

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
political
considerations,
when
publishing
Bábí
documents it seems to me more proper not to mention
my name as well as the fact that these documents were
presented by the Bábís to General Kuropatkin.9 As you
well know, our Ministry is not quite sympathetic to the
attempts of the authorities of the Transcaspian Region
to offer the Bábís exceptional support. The mention of
my name, given my official status here, would accord
to the delivery of Bahá’u’lláh’s epistles into my hands
by the Bábís a somewhat official character, which is
undesirable… [April 23, 1892]
I will now turn to the “Report on the Bábís in Adrianople,”
which was compiled on Baron Rosen’s special request by the
Russian Consul of the time. It comprises several accounts
made by different individuals. All the accounts emphasize that
the Bábís lived quite peacefully in Adrianople and were far from
being trouble-makers. Among these materials there is a
document titled: “A rough translation from German of the
petition of the Bábí Shaykh (i.e. Bahá’u’lláh) to the Austrian
Consulate” concerning the new upsurge of persecutions that
befell the Bábís, by which Bahá’u’lláh’s banishment to Akka is
implied. I will not quote this document here. Instead I will read
you an extract from a report based on the accounts of some
Sufi Shaykhs in Adrionople:
According to the testimony of old Adrionople dwellers
(Shaykhs belonging to the dervishes of the Mevlevi and
Qadrikhane Sufi orders…, who were people with whom
Shaykh Óusayn Ali had a personal relationship), the
Bábís lived a quiet and humble life. Shaykh Óusayn Ali
was a very clever and respectable person. He was
engaged in the study and interpretation of many
theological issues. Haji Izzet Pasha finds that the Bábí
teaching is an aspiration for self-perfection. The Báb is
the outward sign of a gate leading the soul to Paradise.
Humility and self-possession, and also firmness in
sustaining sufferings purify the soul and open for it
the gate (Báb) of Paradise. The person preaching this,
enlightening people and guiding them unto salvation is
the one who is the Báb. This is also what the Gospel
speaks about. Isa (Jesus Christ), the prophet, calls

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
himself the Báb, for through him people enter Paradise.
According to Hadr and Izzet Pasha, the Báb’s pure
doctrine was distorted by uneducated people, while in
essence it by no means contradicts Islam. Mu˙ammad,
in the exalted sense of the word, was also the Báb, and
Musa and Isa, as well as all the great saints and wise
men, who taught and corrected humankind.
Turning now to E. Browne’s correspondence with Rosen, we
will start with a quote from a letter in which the British scholar
describes his recent journey to Cyprus and the Palestine. He
says:
My journey — as I daresay you will have desired was
intimately connected with the same object. It appeared
to me that for a proper understanding of the subject
(apart from the great interest one feels in beholding
face to face the prime movers in a great national or
religious movement) it was very desirable to have a
personal interview with the chiefs of both parties of
Bábís, since from them (if they chose to speak) the most
authentic and detailed accounts might be expected.
So, having obtained some extension of the Easter
vacation, I once more turned my face Eastwards, and
on March 19th landed in Cyprus…
As regards the history of the Cyprian exiles, there, I
believe that I have all the information obtainable, and
of all the papers I took copies which are now in my
possession.
After leaving Cyprus (on April 5th) I proceeded to
Beyrout, & thence, after a delay of 5 days (for I had to
obtain permission from Beha to approach him) to
Acre. This delay unfortunately reduced my time at
Acre to 5 days) (for the ride thither & back occupied 3
days each way), but during these 5 days I was
completely amongst the Bábís, who treated me with
unbounded kindness. I was granted 5 interviews with
Beha himself, but of course I could not ask him any
questions. I sat humbly before him while he talked. His
discourse was oracular but rather general in character.

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
He spoke as ‘one having authority,’ but not exactly as I
had expected — like a Master, and a Prophet — but not
as an Incarnation of the Divinity… His manner is
gracious and dignified, but somewhat restless,
suggesting great stores of energy. He talked for the
most part of the necessity of all nations choosing one
language as a means of international communication &
one writing (a sort of sermon on the concluding text of
the ﻭﺡﻝ ﺩﺱﺍﻕ)10 & of the necessity of putting down war
& international jealousy & hostility. Of doctrine
properly so called he spoke little.
I might write pages on all I saw & heard, but to the
present I must confine myself to the above brief
outline. Of course I hope to publish the result of my
journey ere long… [From a letter dated May 6, 1890]
The following letter helps us to understand how Browne
classified and selected Bábí and Bahá’í writings from the
standpoint of their importance. He wrote:
But of course the printing of oriental works is
expensive, & we cannot publish the whole of the
extensive literature which the Bábís have managed to
produce in this short time, so that I am anxious to
make a wise selection… As regards the work about the
Bábís, I think it would be a good thing to publish –
(i) Selections from the Báb’s writings, including the
whole of the Persian Beyan, the Dala’il-i-Sab’a,11
portions of the Commentaries on the Suras of Joseph,
ﻭ ﺍﻝﻉﺹﺭ , ﻕﺭﻩﺏ ,12 one or two of the ﺍﺭﺍﺕﺯﯼ ;13 & other
shorter writings,
(ii) Selections from Beha’s works, including,
ﮎﺕﺍﺏ ﺍﻕﺩﺱ 14
ﻭﺡﻝ ﻥﺹﯼﺭ
ﻝﻡﺍﺕﮎ ﻡﮎﻥﻭﻥﻩ
ﻝﻡﺍﺕﮎ ﻑﺭﺩﻭﺱﯼّﻩ

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Some other of the shorter ﺍﻝﻭﺍﺡ (Tablets) which you have
not published, and selections from the ﻕﺍﻥﺍﯼ. (Kitáb-i-
ˆqán)
(iii) Selections from Subh-i-Ezel’s writings, including
portions of his ﻍﻡﺍﺕﻥ ﺍﻝﺭﻭﺡ , (Persian)
ﺉﺍﻝﯼﻝ ﻡﺝﺍﻝﯼ and the short account of the Bábí
movement which he wrote for me.
… If you would give me your advice as to how I had
best proceed I should be very grateful. I think that the
Persian Beyan is very important, but my MS. is not a
very good one, & I am waiting an opportunity (sic) to
spend a few weeks in London to collate it with the
British Museum MS. Unfortunately their rules are very
stringent, & it is impossible to borrow any MS… [From
a letter dated July 12, 1891]
In another letter Browne says:
I am very glad to hear that your Collections
Scientifiques15 are so nearly ready, as they will be a very
great acquisition not only to ‘Bábology,” but to
Oriental Studies in general…
As you say that M. Tumanski 16 is at present working at
a popular resume of his sojourn amongst the Bábís in
Ashkabad, & that he thinks of adding to it a brief
account of my investigations, and also that he will
soon be returning to his military duties in Asia, I
thought that it might perhaps be convenient to him to
be able to refer to my forthcoming work without
further delay…
Still I think there can be no doubt that you are right as
to the ﯼﺍﻥﺏ ﻑﺍﺭﺱﯼ17 being more important by far, and
it would be a pity if the University Press after finishing
the ﺍﺭﯼﺥﺕ ﺝﺩﯼﺩ ,18 should weary of spending money on
what one of my un-initiated friends had termed “a
religion of which nobody ever heard before” I shewed
what you had written to Professor Robertson Smith,
by whose opinion the University Press Syndicate would
be chiefly guided in the matter, & I also shewed him my

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
MS. of the text & translation of the ﺍﺭﯼﺥﺕ ﺩﯼﺩﺝ , and he
said that he did not think it would be advisable to urge
the Press to incur the expense of publishing so large a
work unless you, who were best able to judge
impartially of its value, recommended it strongly. He
also said that he thought that they would certainly
print the Persian Beyan for me if I prepared a text; and
if I have decided to get to work on that as soon as
possible … So now I have decided to concentrate my
energy on the ﯼﺍﻥﺏ ﻑﺍﺭﺱﯼ . It rests with your kindness
to tell me how I should proceed with a view to
obtaining the loan of the St. Petersburg MSS. I should
be glad to begin the work during the vacation if it were
possible, for from now till October 10th I shall have
much more leisure than when term time begins… [From a
letter dated July 28, 1891]
The theme of the Persian Bayán also features in Browne’s
following letters:
First of all as to the Persian Beyan. It is unfortunate
that delay is unavoidable, but it is very generous of
your librarian to allow their MSS. to go abroad at all,
and eager as I am to commence the work, I cannot but
feel that they are right in safe-guarding possessions so
precious in whatever way seems best to them. And after
all I can always be employing myself in collating my
own two MSS, & if I am in London, the British
Museum codex also. I am chiefly sorry to give you so
much trouble… [From a letter dated August 15, 1891]
…I returned to Cambridge after my vacation at the end
of last week… this morning to my great delight I
received from our Foreign Office the MS. of the
Persian Beyan belonging to the Academy of Sciences,
which had been transmitted to me through them from
the Russian Ambassador. I need not say how much
pleasure its arrival gave me, and I know not in what
words sufficiently to express my deep sense of
gratitude to you for all the trouble you have taken in
the matter and to the Academy of Sciences for the
generosity with which they have placed at my disposal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
so precious a manuscript. Pray convey to them my
most sincere and warmest thanks.
Two days ago I dispatched the application for the
other MS. belonging to the Institut. I was unable to do
it sooner, as I wished to obtain a formal endorsement
of my application from the Vice-Chancellor, thinking
that too would strengthen it. My application and the
Vice-Chancellor’s “covering letter” were advanced to
Sir Robert Morier, the British Ambassador at St.
Petersburg. I hope they may prove as effective as your
kind offices have done in the other case.
As I now have three MSS. in my possession (two of my
own and the copy belonging to the Academy) I can
begin the work of collation at once… [From the letter
dated October 15, 1891]
…I have been steadily collating my best MS. of the
Beyan with the MS. so kindly lent me by St. Petersburg
Academy. It is rather tedious work, and I find I
cannot satisfactorily do more than 3 pages of the St. P.
MS. a day, as the attention begins to be blunted after
that. However
ﻕﻁﺭﮤ ﺏﺍ ﻕﻁﺭﮤ ﺩﺭﯼﺍ ﺵﻭﺩ19
And I have already collated nearly 1/3 of the whole, so
that, all being well, I hope to have finished with it
before the six months have passed.
I told [you] that I had applied to our Ambassador Sir
Robert Morier, to obtain for me the loan of the MS.
belonging to the Institut. I did this chiefly to avoid the
delays inseparable from doing anything through the
Foreign Office. Unfortunately Sir Robert Morier had
just left St. Petersburg for England on account of his
health. Consequently my letter fell into the hands of his
Charge d’affaires, who not feeling the same interest in
the matter…
The Academy MS. evidently belongs to the same
“family” as my own, the variants being on the whole

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
few & unimportant, & mostly evident slips and errors.
Still I suppose they should be collated… [From a letter
dated November 10, 1891]
Quotes from a few more letters I will read without comments.
For they speak for themselves:
You will see therefore, that my trip to Paris has not
been fruitless. I have found a new M.S. of the Persian
Beyan, as I believe, the original of the ﺕﺍﺏﮎ ﺍﻝﺍﺡﮎﺍﻡ20
translated by Gobineau; and, most interesting still, as I
think, a book that would appear to be the original from
which the compilers of the ﺍﺭﯼﺥﺕ ﺝﺩﯼﺩ 21 got most of
their circumstantial narratives…
What you tell me about M. Gamazof inspires me with
the
highest
admiration
for
his
enterprise
and
disinterested love of science. How I wish we had, such
a publication in England.
I safely received the proof-sheets of the ﻭﺭﺓﺱ ﺍﻝﻡﻝﻭﮎ22 &
etc which are being printed by the Academy of
Sciences, and also the Zapiski (vol. vi, 1-4),23 for which
very many thanks. I have not yet had time to examine
them carefully…
How I wish I could read Russian; unfortunately I
cannot, so that the Russian part of the Zapiski is a
sealed book to me. I must try and learn some when I get
a little time, but a brief examination of Russian
grammar which I once indulged in led me to the
conclusion that it is a very difficult language…
As to the copies of my Traveller’s Narrative which M.
Toumanski says the Bábís at Ashkabad wish to buy, I
need not say that it would be likely to encourage the
University Press very much in the publication of other
such works if so large a number were sold all at once. I
have written to them to give me an estimate of the cost
and weight of —
• 50 copies of the English
• 100 copies of the Persian bound in cloth like your
copy.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
• 100 copies of the Persian in a special paper cover to
diminish the weight
…The only difficulty I see is, will the books be allowed
to
pass
through
Russia
without
difficulty?
I
understand
that
there
are
difficulties
in
the
transmission of books through Russian territory. They
would, I suppose, be most cheaply sent by steamer to
Odessa or Batoumi, thence rail to Baku, steamer to
ﻭﺯﻭﻥﺍ ﺁﻁﻩ , 24 and rail to Ashkabad…
I am less anxious for the English volumes to go than the
Persian, firstly because I doubt if they would meet the
approval of any Bábí (the Beha’is would not like Note
W), and secondly because I very much doubt whether
there are 50 Bábís or even Persians sympathizing with
Bábís who know English, and I do not see what use they
would have for so many copies. Indeed my feelings
about the Traveller’s Narrative are curiously mixed: I
sympathize profoundly with the Bábís as a whole, but
hardly know what to think as between Beha and Subh-i-
Ezel. My book would certainly please neither: the
former would by no means approve of the English, the
latter would never forgive me for editing Persian…
[From a letter dated April 10, 1892]
…Many thanks also for your notices on the St.
Petersburg ﻑﺱﯼﺭﺍﻝﺍﺱﻡﺍﺀﺕ . 25 I have not yet had time to
compare them with my copy…I must also thank you for
pp. 89-104 of the collection of ﺍﻝﻭﺍﺡ (Tablets) which you
are printing, and for calling my attention to the
expression[:]
ﮎُﻥ ًﻥﺏّﺍﺽﺍ ﮎﺍﻝﺵﺭﯼﺍﻥ ﻑﯼ ﺏﺩﻥ ﺍﻝﺍﻡﮎﺍﻥ 26
Which is interjected by the Ezeli’s in so sinister a
manner. Very probably you are right (and on the whole
I hope so) in supposing that they have invented the
context in which they place it… [From a letter dated
October 9, 1892]
…I have to thank you very sincerely for your letter of
April 15th with its very interesting enclosure, all the

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
contents of which were entirely new to me, (except for
the resume of the … 27 facts which you so kindly gave me
in a letter some months ago). No copy of the ﺴﺍﻟﮥﺭ
ﺍﺱﮎﻥﺩﺭﯼّﻩ28 has come to me, and I fancy I have become
suspected amongst my good friends at Acre &
Alexandria of Ezeli proclivities. Anyhow some months
have elapsed since I heard anything from them, and the
last letter had a tone of reproach… It is a most
fortunate thing that, thanks to M. Tumansky’s energy
& tact my excommunication will not injure the cause
of science… [From a letter dated April 27, 1892]
… I am very glad to hear that M. Toumansky is getting
on so well at Ashkabad, and I confidently anticipate
the most precious results of his labours. To his last
memoir on the Tarikh-i-Jadid 29 & etc I owe, as I said, a
very great debt of gratitude. I wish I knew the truth
about Aka Seyyid Jawad of Kerbela!… [From a letter dated
May 31, 1893]
…Many thanks for your kind letter of July 31, and for
the corrections you point out. It was very stupid of me
not to see that the title ﺍﻟﮥﺴﺭ ﺍﺱﮎﻥﺩﺭﯼّﻩ bore reference to
M. Toumansky’s name and that it should be translated
“Epistle of Alexander” — luckily the proofs, though
passed, had not been printed off, and I was able to
make the required correction. I am very grateful to you
for having saved me from so stupid a blunder… [From a
letter dated August 22, 1893]
…I cannot tell you how pleased I was to receive your
kind letter together with the last number of the Zapiski
and the “authorized version” of the Bábí scriptures, for
all of which I offer you my most sincere thanks… I am
extremely grateful to you for obtaining for me this new
collection of Bábí scriptures, for as you know, my
relations with Acre have ceased; at least it is a long time
since I have heard from them, & from the Ezelis either…
As regards the Bábís I am rather doubtful whether I
shall go on with any more of their books or not. I
should like to publish both the ﯼﺍﻥﺏ30 and Haji Mírzá

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Jani’s history, but most of my orientalist friends have
dissuaded me, saying that enough has been done for the
present. However ﺍﺕ ﺥﺩﺍ ﻩﭺ ﻡﯼﺥﻭﺍﻩﺩ31 I should be sorry to
abandon the Beyan after going through the labour of
collating 3 MSS. [From a letter dated November 19, 1893]
The following letter explains what he means:
I feel my countrymen are tired of Bábís (sic), and that
there is little chance of my getting either the Beyan or
Mírzá Jani’s history published, unless it be at my own
expense… [From a letter dated October 27, 1894]
…I thank you very sincerely for what you say about the
Beyan. I am almost certain that it would be impossible
to get it printed here, unless it were at my own expense:
and I fear I could not afford this. To show you how
difficult it is to get books, which cannot prove
remunerable, published here, I may tell you that I have
just applied to the Press to print my Catalogue of
Persian MSS. in the University Library, and that even
about this I am having some difficulties and anxiety…
[From a letter dated December 23, 1894]
…Your letter of Feb. 26 reached me in the Island of Cyprus
at Famagusta, and I wrote a short reply from thence…
The assassination of the Shah of Persia is naturally
enjoying a great deal of attention here. 32 I am very
sorry that the first telegrams connected it with the
Bábís, as I am convinced that they have nothing
whatever to do with it, but no doubt it will be made an
excuse for renewing the persecutions. My own belief is
that the assassination is the work of a political Society
organized by Sheykh Jemalu’d-Din el-Afghani — an able
but dangerous man, who has been expelled from nearly
every country in Western Asia. I met him in London in
1891, where he was trying to stir up public feeling
against the Shah by articles in the magazines on what he
called “The Reign of Terror in Persia.” He conducted
an Arabic newspaper called ﻝﻉﺭﻭﺓﺍ ﺍﻝﻭﺙﻕﯼ33 in Paris…
intended to stir up Mu˙ammadan feeling against the
English. He was also concerned in a reactionary

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Persian newspaper called the ﺍﻥﻭﻥﻕ34 published in
London in 1890-1. He has nothing whatever with the
Bábís, but is a zealous Mu˙ammadan whose ideal is the
union of all Mu˙ammadans to resist European
influence. He is, I suppose, safe for the present as I see
that the Sultan refuses to give him up to the Persian
Ambassador at Constantinople… [From a letter dated May
9, 1895]
The theme of the emerging Bahá’í community in America is
also reflected in Browne’s letters. It is touched upon in 3 of the
4 letters with which I would like to conclude this presentation:
P.S. I think I told you about the Bábís in America
(Chicago). There are Americans who account them-
selves of the sect. I send you herewith (enclosed with the
J.R.A.S.35 extracts) a little work published by their
leader, Kheyru’lláh, which may amuse, though it can
hardly instruct you… [From a letter dated February 2, 1898]
… I hope that you are well, and that your official work
leaves you some time free for the Bábís. I think I told
you that the sect has established itself in America. And
has several hundred ardent behaits in New York,
Chicago and San Francisco. I had a visit from one of
them last June. As a rule they seem to know very little
about it, but some of them perform pilgrimages to St.
Jean d’Acre, and are received there by the ﺹﺍﻥﻍﺍ36…
[From a letter dated November 1, 1899]
…I am most delighted to receive yesterday Captain
Toumansky’s edition and translation of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas and other Bábí works, with Commentary,
Introduction, etc. As I do not know his address, I am
taking the liberty of sending you my letter of thanks to
him, hoping that it will not trouble you too much to
forward it to him. I have naturally only had time at
present to glance at it… [From a letter dated February 6, 1900]
… I had a visit last week from a Bábí ﺍﻉﯼﺩ37 on his way
to America — a very serious intelligent & interesting
man, who put me en courant as to the very serious

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
quarrel and schism which has arisen between ‘Abbas
Efendi — ﺹﻥﻍ ﺍﻉﻅﻡ — and his younger brothers. The
latter represent the stationary or conservative element,
while the former, so far as I can learn, wishes to be
regarded in the same light as Beha’u’lláh… [From a letter
dated February 10, 1901]
In conclusion I would like to say that what I have presented
to you is but a glimpse of the highly valuable materials
preserved in Baron Rosen’s archive in the Russian Academy of
Sciences in St. Petersburg. I would also like to stress again that
this collection has so far neither been published nor even
referenced. Some of its items such as manuscripts of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings and Abu’l-Fazl Gulpáygání’s autograph
of the “History of Haji Mu˙ammad Riza Isfahani” have a
special value of their own. In order to make this collection
available to the public the soonest publication of all these
materials in the original languages and translation (with all the
necessary references) seems to me highly desirable.

NOTES
1 By Judeo-Persian we imply the peculiar Persian dialect of Iranian Jews
using Hebrew characters in writing.
2 One of these autographs might be the manuscript of the Tablet of the
Holy Mariner now preserved in the manuscript collection of the St.
Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian
Academy of Sciences. The manuscript is presumably an autograph of
Bahá’u’lláh (though this still needs to be confirmed) and was sent to St.
Petersburg from Ashkabad. The sender could well have been Tumanski.
My article on this manuscript, its content and related issues is now
forthcoming in the Journal published by the above Branch.
3 This and some other dates featuring in the correspondence are according
to the old calendar used in pre-Revolutionary Russia.
4 The numbers are mine.
5 Batyushkov, as it appears from one his letters, preserved some Bahá’í
Writings from extinction after the death of their owner.
6 The word is unclear.
7 Valentine Alekseevitch Dzukovski — a prominent Russian Persian
scholar of the 19th century.
8 Probably the Sunnis of the Transcaspian region, e.g. Turkomans are
implied here.
9 General Kuropatkin was Russia’s General-governor of the Region.

Rosen’s Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials

10 The Most Holy Tablet, probably the Kitáb-i-Aqdas is implied.
11 The Seven Proofs by the Báb.
12 Chapters 2 (“The Cow”) and 103 (The Afternoon).
13 Visitations.
14 Mentioned here respectively are: The Most Holy Book, The Tablet to
Nasir, The Hidden Words and The Words of Paradise.
15 Here and below highlighted by E. G. Browne.
16 Tumanski’s first and second names were Alexandr Grigoryevich. The
letter “M” preceding Tumanski’s family name in Browne’s letters to
Rosen must originally have stood for “Mr.,” which was possibly
mistaken by Browne for the abbreviation of the first name.
17 The Persian Bayán.
18 The New History.
19 “A drop upon a drop makes a sea” (Persian).
20 “The Book of Precepts.”
21 New History.
22 The Surih of the Kings.
23 The full title of this academic journal edited by V. Rosen is: “Zapiski
Vostochnovo Otdeleniya Rossiyskovo Archeologocheskovo Obshestva”
(“Notes of the Oriental Branch of the Russian Archeological Society”).
24 Uzun-Ata — a town in Turkistan.
25 Tafsir al-Asma’ (“Commentary on the Names”).
26 “Be pulsating like the artery in the body of the world of creation”
(Arabic).
27 The word is unclear.
28 “The Treatise of Alexander” (e. g. Alexander Tumanski). See also below.
29 “New History” (Persian).
30 The (Persian) Bayán.
31 “Let us see what God wills” (Persian).
32 E.g. in England.
33 “The Sure Handle.”
34 “The Law.”
35 An abbreviation which stands for the Journal of the Royal Asiatic
Society.
36 “Aghsans” (Branches) — descendants of Bahá’u’lláh.
37 This term usually applied by the Isma’ili’s to their traveling preachers
can in the given context be translated as “a teacher.”

Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
During recent years there has been a great debate about the
clash of civilizations, which ultimately boils down to a clash
between religions, because religions form the moral and
spiritual basis of all civilizations. There is no doubt that there
is a great deal of diversity and even fundamental differences
between various different religions. It is an undeniable fact
that established religions have given rise to many conflicts
throughout history, but the main question is to what extent
have those conflicts been based on fundamental religious
differences and to what extent have they been due to political
and historical differences? True interfaith work needs to be
carried out with a full awareness of our differences and
disagreements as well as our commonalities and similarities.
Interfaith collaboration means to trust and respect one
another enough to be able to differ, to be able to exchange
unbiased and constructive criticism without wishing to
trivialize other faiths or diminish mutual respect.
Even a cursory glance at the main teachings of the Eastern
and the so-called Semitic or Abrahamic religions would reveal
some basic differences between them.1 Eastern religions
generally believe in Monism or the Oneness of Being, and
maintain that man will be ultimately united with God; while
Semitic religions believe in Monotheism and maintain that God
is and will always remain transcendent. Therefore, although
man may attain God’s presence, union with the divine essence
will be impossible.
At the same time, although it would be inaccurate to suggest
that all religions are identical in their outward teachings and
their worldview, nevertheless, in the area of mysticism we have
the greatest degree of unity and similarity of views among the
mystics from different religious traditions. While religious

Mysticism East and West
dogma and theology that are solely based on concepts and ideas
create differences and disunity, the mystical understanding of
the underlying reality of all religions can provide a basis of
unity between them. Each mystical tradition speaks about the
‘journey in God,’ of intense longing for God and devotion of
the soul to God, of surrender and purification, of
renunciation and abandonment, through union in Love. It has
been said that all mystics recognize one another, because they
come from the same spiritual country.
The late Professor Cantwell-Smith of McGill University
believed that religions could be divided into two parts: ‘Faith,’
which is a personal matter and concerns belief in spiritual
values, and the other aspect of religion which he called
‘accumulated tradition.’2 Another way of putting this idea is
to say that one can distinguish between the ‘original
revelations’ as far as they could be understood by going to the
original sources, and the ‘accumulated traditions’ and various
interpretations to which the original teachings have been
subjected. Naturally, the ‘accumulated traditions’ by which
most religions are known today have been responsible for most
of the differences between religions and also between the
contemporary forms of religions and what their founders
originally revealed.
Additionally, one can make a further distinction, between
the esoteric and the exoteric aspects of religions, between the
mystical essence and the outward and time-bound teachings
and laws. Most religious scriptures have made references to the
distinctions between the literal texts and their deeper
meanings, “the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.”3 The
Koran refers to Muhkamat and Mutishabihat.4 Muhkamat
refers to the plain texts that could be understood by all, and
Mutishabihat refers to the allegorical and symbolic meanings
of the text that can be understood only by those who are ‘firmly
grounded in knowledge.’ This is why religious scriptures exhort
the people to read the verses with the eye of the soul. They speak
about the need for awakening, for enlightenment, for proper
understanding, for opening one’s eyes, one’s ears, and one’s
heart.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
This shows that the true meaning of the scriptures cannot be
understood by mere reading, but through contemplation, by
becoming blind in order to see, by becoming deaf in order to
hear, by becoming ignorant in order to receive wisdom. (HW
Per. 11) In the words of St Augustine, “I believe in order to
understand.”5 A deeper understanding of the words of God is
one of the functions of Irfán or mysticism. In the words of
Rumi:
Gusham shanid qesse-ye iman-o mast shod.
Ku sahm-e chashm surat-e imanam arezust
My ears heard the story of faith and became
intoxicated.
Where is the portion of my eyes, my wish is to see the
face of Truth.
In Arabic, the term ‘Irfán (mysticism) comes from the root
‘Arafa, to know, to recognise, rather than to be acquainted
with. It refers to seeing and feeling and knowing the Truth,
rather than having heard or read about it. It denotes gnosis
rather than knowledge. In English, the word mysticism comes
from the same root as ‘myth’ or ‘mystery.’ All are derived from
the Greek word musteion, which means to close the eye or the
mouth, to close oneself to the outside world. All three words
are therefore rooted in an experience of contemplation or
silence. These words often have negative connotations in the
West today. The word ‘myth,’ for example, is often used as a
synonym for a lie; in popular parlance, a myth is something
that is not true. Also the word ‘mystery’ is something that
needs to be cleared up, to be sorted out. It is frequently
associated with muddled thinking. Similarly, ‘mysticism’ is
frequently associated with the superstitious, with people who
lack rationality.
It is curious that even in some supposedly religious systems,
such as the present regime in Iran or under the Safavids, or the
Wahhabis or the Puritans in Christianity, mysticism is
frowned upon. Both under the Safavids, the Wahhabis, and the
Taliban the Sufis were persecuted. It should be borne in mind,
therefore, that mysticism is not the same as dogmatic religion.
In many ways, it is its antithesis. So when we speak of Islamic,

Mysticism East and West
Jewish, Christian, Buddhist or Hindu mysticism we are not
talking about Islamic, Jewish, Christian, Buddhist or Hindu
theologies and codes of law, but about their spiritual concepts
that have a great deal in common.
However, mysticism does not deal merely with mystery, but
also with the sacred. Sacred, too, is one of a whole group of
cognate words: sacrament, sacrilege, consecrate, sacrosanct,
sacrifice which means to make sacred. The root of the word
sacred, sacra, means belonging to a deity. It has the
connotation of the divine. One can make a few generalisations
about what follows from the terms ‘Irfán, mysticism and
sacred.
1) Sacred presupposes the divine. You cannot speak of
sunlight without the sun. Without the presupposition of a
deity there cannot be any concept of sacred. The main habit of
a materialistic or atheistic mind is that it denies the existence
of the sacred. If there is no God, it follows logically that
nothing can be sacred. We may respect certain ideas or certain
places due to their utilitarian nature, but their importance lies
in what we derive from them, not in what they are in
themselves; while the term sacred refers to their innate or
intrinsic value.
2) Just as there can be no sacred without God, there can be
no wholeness without God. According to a materialistic
outlook, the universe is made up of disjointed or continuous
particles that follow the blind laws of physics, and there is
nothing that will link them together and that will give them
meaning. The world may be fantastic and mind-boggling, but
ultimately it is “a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
signifying nothing.”6 Even worse, according to the post-
modernist thinking, it is not even a tale told by idiot, but the
hallucinations of a sick mind. Either the world is the Word of
God, the revelation of God, the will of God — “Be and it was” —
or if, according to Nietzsche, God is dead, by definition the
world is also dead.
It is the loss of contact with the divine, with the sacred and
with the mystery that constitutes the Fall from Grace. This loss
makes man a lowly and a lonely wanderer in an absurd,
pointless and degenerating universe. According to mysticism,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
on the other hand, God exists and is the ground of being, and
gives meaning, purpose and significance to man’s life.
3) The third presupposition is God’s immanence, His
indwelling. The mystics speak of creation as the moving image
of the eternity, or a reflection of the divine. God reveals himself
in His creation. It does not mean that God and matter are one
and the same, but that matter is not conceivable without God.
The concept of God’s immanence is not limited to
Hinduism and Buddhism. Judaism, Christianity, Islam and the
Bahá’í Faith are also full of references to God’s revelation in the
world. The Bible teaches that God created man in His own
image.7 The Koran teaches that “Whithersoever you turn, there
is the Face of God.”8 In Bahá’u’lláh’s Hidden Words we read:
O Son of Being! Thou art My lamp and My light is in
thee. Get thou from it thy radiance and seek none other
than Me. For I have created thee rich and have
bountifully shed My favour upon thee. (HW Ar. 11)
4) God is never an object. He can be known only through
Himself becoming the absolute subject of our being, an
epiphany. In other words, we know God through Himself. The
Sufis say that God is both the lover and the beloved. Man is
thirsty for God and God is thirsty for man. Man seeks God and
God seeks man. There is a union or trinity between Love, the
Lover and the Beloved. In the words of Rumi:
Parro-bal-e ma kamand-e eshq-e ust.
Mukeshanash mikeshad ta kuy-e dust
Our wings and feathers are the lassos of His love.
They pull us by our hair to the realm of the Beloved.
As Bahá’u’lláh says, “Love Me that I may love thee.”9 Or:
O Son of Spirit! I created thee rich, why dost thou
bring thyself down to poverty? Noble I made thee,
wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the essence
of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou
enlightenment from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay
of love I molded thee, how dost thou busy thyself with
another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou mayest

Mysticism East and West
find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and
self-subsisting.10
5) Creation is a revelation not about God, but revelation of
God itself. “The heaven and earth are full of thy glory. The
heavens declare the glory of God.”11 If God is not present in a
grain of sand he is not present in heaven either. In the words of
William Blake (1757-1827), true knowledge consists of:
To see a World in a Grain of Sand,
And a heaven in a wild flower,
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand,
And Eternity in an Hour.12
The same universality that exists in the material laws also
exists in spiritual realm. If this was not so there could not be
any contact with the sacred either in life or in art or in religion
and mysticism.
Immanence and Transcendence
Hinduism and Buddhism are often described as religions of
monism. They allegedly believe that the whole universe is part
and parcel of God, and they do not make any distinction
between the world of the matter and the world of the spirit. But
Brahma, which is the Sanskrit word for the Absolute, is the
supreme divinity, who is transcendent as well as immanent,
beyond all limitations and definitions. He is the principle of
search as well as the object sought, the animating ideal and its
fulfilment. Mundaka Upanishad says about Him: “He is the
Lord of all, that from which all things originate, and in which
they finally disappear.”13
Brahma is the immanent ground and operative principle in
all subjects and objects. At the beginning of Kena Upanishad
we read: “What cannot be spoken with words, but that whereby
words are spoken; know that alone to be Brahma, the Spirit,
and not what people here adore. What cannot be thought with
the mind, but that whereby mind can think; know that alone to
be Brahma, the Spirit, and not what people here adore.”14

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Chandogya Upanishad expresses the spiritual experience of
Brahma in these words: “There is a Spirit which is mind and life,
light and truth and vast spaces. He contains all works and
desires and all perfumes and all tastes. He enfolds the whole
universe, and in silence is loving to all.”15
If we ask where is Brahma, the Spirit of the Universe, the
answer is given in Kena Upanishad: “He is seen in nature in the
wonder of a flash of lightning. He comes to the soul in the
wonder of a flash of vision.”16 The glory and majesty of Brahma
are expressed in these beautiful words of the Bhagavadgita: “If
the light of a thousand suns suddenly arose in the sky, that
splendour might be compared to the radiance of the Supreme
Spirit, and Arjuna saw in that radiance the whole universe in
its variety, standing in a vast unity in the body of God of
Gods.”17 The following passage from the Bhagavadgita expresses
the all-inclusive nature of Brahma:
I am the creation and the dissolution of the whole
universe. There is not anything greater than I, and all
things hang on me, even as precious gems upon a
string. I am moisture in the water, light in the sun and
moon, invocation in the Vedas, sound in the
firmament, human nature in mankind, sweet-smelling
savour in the earth, glory in the source of light. In all
things I am life; and I am zeal in the zealous; and know
O Arjoon! that I am the eternal seed of all nature. I am
the understanding of the wise, the glory of the proud,
the strength of the strong, free from lust and anger.18
Mudaka Upanishad expresses the same doctrine in a different
way:
As from a well-blazing fire, sparks
By the thousand issue forth of like form,
So from the imperishable, my friend, beings manifold
Are produced, and thither also go.19
Hinduism preaches an unbounded toleration of all other
religions, because although they may differ in appearance yet in
reality they are all of the same substance. A Hindu song says:
Into the bosom of the one great sea

Mysticism East and West
Flows streams that come from hills on every side;
Their names are various as their springs;
And thus in every land do men bow down
To one great God, though known by many names.20
In the Upanishads again we read: “My names are many as
declared by the great seers.” Again, “Him who is the One Real,
sages name variously.” “This indestructible enduring reality is
to be looked upon as one only.”21
Hinduism makes allowance for the different stages of
people’s spiritual maturity and allows different people to
approach God in the way that best suits them. Chandogya
Upanishad teaches us that the man of action finds his God in
fire, the man of feeling in heart, and the feeble-minded in the
idol, but “the strong in spirit finds God everywhere.”22 To the
Hindus, God’s true essence is completely beyond the
understanding of even the wisest of men and so no matter what
we call him is a creation of our mind and is ultimately of little
importance. The best thing is if we can rise above the names
and attributes of God and worship him in his abstract reality:
The worshippers of the Absolute are the highest in rank;
second to them are the worshippers of the personal
God, then come the worshippers of the incarnations
like Rama, Krishna, Buddha; below them are those who
worship ancestors, deities and sages, and lowest of all
are the worshippers of the petty forces and spirits.23
This is why when it comes to the definition of God, the
Hindus prefer to answer in negative terms: neti, neti, no, no.
Hindu thinkers bring out the sense of the otherness of the
Divine by the use of the negatives: “There the eye goes not,
speech goes not, nor mind, we know not, we understand not;
how one would teach it?”24 In essence, they say that we know all
that God is not, but what He is we do not know.
At the same time, in many Hindu texts one can see a
distinction between the world of being and the revelation of
Brahma and his essence. If read properly, Bhagavadgita is
indeed a kind of Mantiq at-Tayr or The Conference of Birds by
Farid al-Din Attar (ca. 1142 — ca. 1220),25 or The Seven Valleys
by Bahá’u’lláh.26 It talks of the stages of Arjuna’s gradual

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
development from bewilderment to search, to detachment, to
humility, to submission, to enlightenment and to union with
the Brahma. While at the beginning of the book Arjuna is the
lord and master and Krishna is his charioteer, at the end the
roles are reversed and Arjuna discovers the glory of Krishna. At
times we feel that the words of Arjuna are our own words:
“Speak to me again of thy power and thy glory, for I am never
tired, never, of hearing thy words of life.”27
At this point, the Bhagavadgita rises to the highest points
and Krishna reveals: “I am the beginning, I am the middle, I am
the end. I am the undying Lord of creation. Whenever there is
the decay of religion and an ascendancy of irreligion I am
revealed from age to age.”28
Buddhism and Nirvana (Nibbana)
Many Western observers have seen something negative in
nirvana as a goal. This seems perverse to the Buddhists, for
whom nirvana is above all supreme happiness. The main schools
of Indian Buddhism agree that nirvana is not a mere negation.
Rather it is unconditional dharma, not expressible in spatial or
temporal terms; knowledge of it dissolves ignorance and ends
craving.
Nirvana means total extinction. However, Nirvana is not
total nothingness. It contains the concept of the Void, the
sonyata, but also of fulfilment. By avoiding the two extremes,
indulgence in sensual pleasure and self-mortification, one gains
the enlightenment of the middle path which produces insight,
produces knowledge, and conduces to tranquility, to higher
knowledge, to Enlightenment, to Nirvana. According to
Buddhist scriptures, Nirvana is ineffable and inexpressible, and
we cannot employ any category to describe what the Void is.
Nothing can be said of it. However, it is something. It is that
thing out of which everything comes. The Buddhists call it
Suchness, it is Whateverness of being. It is the underlying unity
of all things. It is the great reservoir of all possible
potentialities. It is the ground of being, in the same way that
the ocean is the ground of the waves. All waves, whatever their
shapes and forms, have the same water and formlessness as their
substance, their suchness.

Mysticism East and West
Often Nirvana is referred to in positive terms. Buddha
describes Nirvana as:
…the far shore, the subtle, the very difficult to see, the
unaging,
the
stable,
the
undisintegrating,
the
unmanifest, the unproliferated, the peaceful, the
deathless, the sublime, the auspicious, the secure, the
destruction of craving, the wonderful, the amazing,
the unailing, the unailing state, the unafflicted,
dispassion, purity, freedom, the unadhesive, the island,
the shelter, the asylum, the refuge…29
In its negative aspect, it is our total extinction to the self
and all that is not God. In its positive side, it is the union of us
with the great Source. Nirvana is release because it is the
awareness of the illusoriness of all phenomenal being and their
union with the great Void. Life is like an ever-flowing river,
never being the same. We want to cross the river to the other
side, which is Nirvana. Buddhism is the boat, which will carry
us to the other side. After crossing not only one leaves behind
the first shore and the river, but also the boat that has
transported one to this shore; so that at that point even
Buddha and Buddhism do not exist any longer. One achieves
one’s own Buddhahood and Enlightenment.
However, it has to be borne in mind that Nirvana is not
merely a negative state, but plays a role in Buddhist life that is
analogous to union with God. Edward Conze points out that
the Buddhists often use the same imagery as the theists:
We are told that Nirvana is permanent, stable,
imperishable, immovable, ageless, deathless, unborn,
and unbecome, that it is power, bliss and happiness,
the secure refuge, the shelter and the place of
unassailable security; that it is the real Truth and the
supreme Reality; that it is the good, the supreme good,
and the one and only consummation of our life, the
eternal, hidden and incomprehensible Peace.30
Buddha insisted that Nirvana could not be defined or
discussed as though it were any other human reality. Buddha
always refused to answer questions about Nirvana or the
Ultimate
Reality
because
it
was
‘improper’
and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
‘inappropriate.’ We could not define nirvana because our
words and concepts are tied to the world of sense and flux.
Buddha taught:
There is monks, an unknown, an unbecome, an
unmade, an uncompounded. If monks, there were not
there
this
unborn,
unbecome,
unmade,
uncompounded, there would not here be an escape
from the born, the become, the made, the compounded.
But because there is an unborn, an unbecome, an
unmade, an uncompounded, therefore, there is an
escape from the born, the become, the made, the
compounded.31
The reason given for the Buddha’s silence regarding the
nature of God or Nirvana is practical: such matters are time-
wasting and distracting; they do not conduce to the aim.
However, it is totally wrong to see the Buddhism as a form of
atheism or Nirvana as nothingness.
Zoroaster’s Teachings
The first important point which Zoroastrian sacred books
preach is the existence of an Omniscient Creator called Ahura
Mazda. The name Ahura Mazda is full of significance. Ahura
(Sanskrit Asura) means “Lord of Life.” He is the Creator and
upholder of all life, and thus represents the spirit side of the
universe. Mazda may be explained as made up from maz
(Sanskrit mah) and the root da (Sanskrit dha), and the word
may be translated as “Creator of Life and Creator of Matter.”
Thus this name brings out the fundamental duality of our
visible universe — Spirit and Matter. It implies that the
Supreme Being is the Creator and Upholder of these two great
principles.
This supreme Ahura Mazda is necessarily invisible and
intangible to our physical senses. He can only be “seen” through
the “eye of the spirit.”32 For human beings, He must necessarily
remain a mere name. To understand Him, therefore, Zoroaster
has pointed out a method through the Amesha-Spenta (usually
translated as the ‘Holy Immortals’). In later ages, these have
been understood as almost equivalent to Arch-angels, deities

Mysticism East and West
standing next to the Godhead in rank, each with a special
‘department’ of the universe assigned to him or her to look
after. They can also be described as God’s names and
attributes.
Western scholars have tried to explain them as ‘personified
qualities of Godhead,’ but that seems somewhat inadequate. To
begin with, they are six in number, divided into two groups of
three each. In one group all three bear names in the feminine
gender and represent the Mother-side of the Supreme. In the
other group the names are actually in the neuter gender, but
they stand for masculine concepts and represent the Father-side
of the Supreme. Thus we have among the highest divinities two
clear groups, one representing the active side, the Fatherhood,
and the other representing the passive side or the Motherhood
of the Supreme. These two also correspond respectively to the
Ahura and the Mazda side of God.
It must not be forgotten that all these six are not different
Beings, nor even the ‘creation’ of the Supreme. They are in very
truth aspects of Ahura Mazda. A better comparison would be
with the ‘rays’ of various colours that make up the white light
of the Sun. These six ‘Holy Immortals’ together with Ahura
Mazda Himself make a Heptad, who are known in later
literature as the “Seven Amesha-Spenta.” But the phrase used
for these seven in the Gathas is very significant — they are called
there ‘the Ahura Mazdas’ (in the plural number).33
The three ‘aspects’ of the Supreme on the Father side are
named Asha, Vohu Mana and Kshathra. These names have been
usually translated “Righteousness or Law,” “Good Mind” and
“Power or Domination.” But these renderings convey a very
faint idea of all that these signify in the Gathas.
Asha stands for the knowledge of the Law of God and for the
Law itself. In many places Asha stand for the ‘Eternal Law of
God,’ which is identical with Righteousness. In later theology
Asha-Vahishta (the Highest Asha) becomes identified with the
Sacred Fire, the physical symbol of Zoroaster’s religion. The
worshipper expresses this wish: “Through the highest Asha
through the best Asha may we catch a glimpse of Thee, may we
draw near unto Thee, may we be in perfect union with Thee.”34
Asha, in short, is the Righteousness of the Father in Heaven,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
which we should seek first so that all other things ‘should be
added’ unto us.
There are six Amesha-Spentas, three masculine and three
feminine. The masculine ones are:
1. Asha, the Eternal Law of God or the Supreme
Righteousness.
2. Vohu-Mana, ‘the Loving Mind’ or ‘Love.’ In Yasna the
worshipper and the worshipped are called ‘the Lover and
the Beloved.’
3. Kshathra, After achieving Righteousness and Love one
should translate them into action. He must seek the help
of the third ‘Aspect’ of the Lord, Kshathra, who
represents the strength of the Lord — bestowed upon
those who truly serve their brothers. It is the Creative
Activity of the Supreme.
Feminine Amesha-Spentas are:
4. Armaiti, usually translated piety, it is the counterpart of
Asha on the Mother side. She is the ‘Daughter of Ahura
Mazda’ and our ultimate refuge.35
5. Ameretat is immortality.
6. Hauravatat is Wholeness or Perfection.
This wonderful and poetic teaching of the Holy Immortals
may be summed up thus: Every human being must understand
the Eternal Law of God of Truth and Righteousness. He must
realise the power of Love, and he must translate both these into
acts of Loving Service. All through his striving he must hold
fast to Faith and thus attain the Goal of Perfection and
Immortality.
The terms used to describe Ahura Mazda are always warm
and friendly. He is portrayed not as a stern judge but as loving
and accessible. He is over and over celebrated in the Gathas in
many beautiful terms. Ahura is always referred to as a “Kind
Friend” or a “Loving Father.”36 He is consulted at the time of
difficulties. He is questioned at moments of uncertainty.

Mysticism East and West
Communion with Him always leads to satisfaction and
assurance.
Semitic Religions
The biblical God is also both immanent and transcendent.
He is the God of the farthest remoteness and yet he is the One
who is with man and to whom man may cry “Hear my prayer!”37
“The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that
call upon him in truth.”38 “Seek thee the Lord while he may be
found, call thee upon him while he is near.”39 Hence, to speak of
the expansion of life may be a true word of prayer: “Out of
straitness I called upon the Lord: the Lord answered me, and let
me into enlargement.”40
In Hebrew scriptures He and Thou are made to follow
immediately upon one another; all meditation about God soon
resolves itself into invocations addressed to him, into an
expression of personal intimacy and connection: “The Lord is a
high tower for the oppressed, a high tower in times of trouble,
and they that know thy name put their trust in thee: for thou,
Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.”41
To know of this One God, in whom all things and each thing
find meaning and significance, to bear witness to Him,
constitutes the monotheism given to the world by the Prophets
of Israel. Man experiences in himself the meaning of breathing
in that air of infinitude and eternity which embraces his earthly
existence. “The nearness of God is my good; I have made the
Lord God my refuge.”42 Thus, the Psalmist expresses his
yearning: “The earth is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof, the
world and they that dwell therein.”43 “Holy, holy, holy is the
Lord of Hosts, the whole earth is full of His glory.”44
“All nations are as nothing before him, they are counted to
him less than nothing and vanity.”45 They are only a “drop in a
bucket” or “the small dust of the balance.”46 The parts of the
earth are like “a grain of sand,” and a thousand years are in his
sight “but as yesterday when it is passed.”47 “The heavens
declare the glory of God; and the firmament shows his
handiwork.”48 “O Lord our God, how excellent is thy name in all
the earth! Thou has set thy glory above the heavens.”49

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
God is “from everlasting to everlasting,” and yet has “been
our dwelling place in all generations.”50 “For thus says the High
and Lofty One that inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy and:
I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a
contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble,
and to revive the heart of the contrite ones.”51 Anxiety and
confidence unite together. There is exaltation and there is awe.
As the prophet, in like mood says: “and thy heart shall tremble
and be enlarged.”52
The above verses would be very familiar to Muslims.
Compare with these verses the following verses of the Koran:
“Whithersoever you turn there is the face of God.”53 “We shall
show them our signs in the heavens [in the firmament] and in
their own souls.”54 So God is manifest both in the world of
nature, as well as, supremely, in the soul of man. “If my
servants inquire of thee concerning Me,” God charges
Mu˙ammad, “lo, I am near.”55 Indeed, “God is closer to man
than his own jugular vein.”56 The Islamic prayer addresses God
as “He who is far and cannot be seen and is close and hears
every whisper.” In the Light Verse, we read:
God is the Light of the Heavens and the Earth. His
Light is like a niche wherein is a lamp, the lamp encased
in a glass, the glass as it were a glistening star. From a
blessed tree it is lighted, the olive neither of the East
nor of the West, whose oil would well nigh shine out,
even though fire touched it not. It is light upon light.57
This closeness to God is frequently reflected in the Koranic
verses, too. The merging of the Lover and the Beloved is a
recurring theme in the Koran: “Then He turned to them, that
they might turn.”58 “God was pleased with them, and they were
well pleased with God,”59 so God addresses the blessed saints in
Paradise: “O thou soul in peace, return to thy Lord, pleased
with Him and He pleased with you;”60 for “He loveth them and
they love Him.”61 This last verse is of great significance as
supporting the Sufi doctrine of Love (mahabba) and as
providing the ultimate authority for the idea of a trinity of
Lover, Beloved and Love.
Therefore,
while
superficially
one
may
be
able
to
differentiate between the beliefs of the Eastern and the Semitic

Mysticism East and West
religions regarding God and the Absolute, a deeper reading of
them shows that in essence they are much closer to each other
than often realised. They all believe in a supernatural force
behind the creation. Although they may differ in their
definitions of the Supreme Being, they all maintain that words
are inadequate in defining him. They maintain that the divine
essence is also manifest in the world and especially in man.
They stress that the divine force is loving towards its creation,
and they also believe that there is an inherent, mutual feeling of
love and attraction in man towards that divine reality, and
that the highest aim and end of life is closeness or union with
the Beloved. Therefore, regardless of whatever name is given to
that divine reality, all paths ultimately lead to the same source.

NOTES
1 Many of these differences have been examined by Dr Moojan Momen in
his erudite paper, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics,”
published in Studies in Honor of the Late Óusayn M. Balyuzi: Studies in
the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions vol. 5, ed. Moojan Momen (Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press, 1988).
2 Wilfred Cantwell Smith, The Meaning and End of Religion (New York:
Mentor Books, 1962),
3 2 Corinthians 3:6
4 Koran, 3: 7
5 St. Augustine, Sermo 43, 7, 9: PL 38, 257-258. “I believe, in order to
understand; and I understand, the better to believe.”
6 William Shakespeare, Macbeth 5.5
7 Genesis, I: 27
8 Koran, 2:115
9 Ibid, Arabic, 2
10 Ibid, Arabic, 13
11 Pslams, 19:1
12 William Blake, Auguries of Innocence
13 Mundaka Upanishad, 3:12
14 Kena Upanishad, I:1-7
15 Chandogya Upanishad, III-xiv-1
16 Kena Upanishad, IV:3
17 Bhagavadgita, XI:12
18 Ibid, VII:6

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

19 Mudaka Upanishad, II.i.1-5
20 Charles E Gover, The Folksongs of Southern India (1995, p.165)
21 Katha Upanishad, chapter 5
22 Chandogya Upanishad, III-xvii-7
23 Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, The Hindu View of Life (1926, p 64)
24 Kena Upanishad, I:3
25 For a translation of this book see: Afkham Darbandi and Dick Davis,
The Conference of Birds (Penguin Classics)
26 See Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys (Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1986)
27 Bhagavadgita, 10:18
28 Bhagavadgita, 10:20-21
29 Samyutta Nikaya, SN43:14
30 Edward Conze, Buddhism: Its Essence and Development, Oxford U.P.,
1959, p 40.
31 Udana 8:13; quoted and translated in Paul Steintha, Udana (London,
1985), p. 81.
32 Yasna: 45:8
33 Yasna, 30:9 and 31:4
34 Yasna 60:11
35 Yasna, 45:4
36 Yasna, 31:21
37 Psalms, 4:1
38 Psalms, 145:18
39 Isaiah, 55:6
40 Psalms, 118:5
41 Psalms, 9:9
42 Psalms, 73:28
43 Psalms, 24:1
44 Isaiah, 6:3
45 Isaiah, 40:17
46 Isaiah, 40:15
47 Psalms, 90:4
48 Psalms, 19:1
49 Psalms, 8:1
50 Psalm, 90:1-2
51 Isaiah, 57:15
52 Isaiah, 60:5

Mysticism East and West

53 Koran, 2:109
54 Koran, 41:53
55 Koran, 2:186
56 Koran, 50:16
57 Koran, 24: 35-37
58 Koran, 9:118
59 Koran, 58:22
60 Koran, 89:27
61 Koran, 5:57

The Word is the Master Key for the
Whole World
The Bahá’í Revelation and the “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and
Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction 1
The title of this paper concerns the revealed Word of
Bahá’u’lláh: “The Word is the master key for the whole world…”
This inquiry is about the meaning of this statement, and
especially about the following statement, which further
develops the meaning and role of the Word: “…inasmuch as
through its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in
reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked.” (TB 173)
In other words, the Word is like a key, actually, like the
master key, that is a key that opens all doors and is, at the same
time, the origin of all other keys. This key assures, uniquely and
dependably, the opening to the meaning of the whole world and
its relationship to heaven. The Word is this special key to the
hearts of men, to the human spirit, which opens this world
towards the doors of heaven.
In a prayer Bahá’u’lláh has described the power of the Word
of God for the believer and connects it to unity, knowledge,
assurance and steadfastness:
I implore Thee, O my God and my Master, by Thy word
through which they who have believed in Thy unity have
soared up into the atmosphere of Thy knowledge, and
they who are devoted to Thee have ascended into the

The Word is the Master Key
heaven of Thy oneness, to inspire Thy loved ones with
that which will assure their hearts in Thy Cause. Endue
them with such steadfastness that nothing whatsoever
will hinder them from turning towards Thee. (PM 188)
In the same way ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained the biblical and
Bahá’í meaning of “heaven” connecting it to the Word, which
He calls the supreme station and the seat of the Sun of Truth:
He (Christ) said: “I came down from heaven and
likewise will go to heaven.” By “heaven” is not meant
this infinite phenomenal space, but “heaven” signifies
the word of the divine kingdom which is the supreme
station and seat of the Sun of Truth. (TAB 192)
To follow the meaning of this momentous and weighty
statement about the Word of God in the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh is the purpose of this paper.
The method used is to first explore the meaning of these
concepts in the Bahá’í Writings and then, in a second section,
to compare the Sacred Words with the writings of Ferdinand
Ebner and others, who have developed what is called a
philosophy of dialogical and personal thinking.
This philosophy seems to be inspired, at least in the
understanding of this writer, by the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,
even though Ferdinand Ebner, as well as his interpreters, have
most likely never heard of this Revelation. The fact that this is
possible is based on the statement of Bahá’u’lláh when He said
in the “Tablet of Wisdom”:
A true philosopher would never deny God nor His
evidences, rather would he acknowledge His glory and
overpowering majesty which overshadow all created
things. Verily We love those men of knowledge who
have brought to light such things as promote the best
interests of humanity, and We aided them through the
potency of Our behest, for well are We able to achieve
Our purpose. (TB 150)
Certainly, Ferdinand Ebner would neither deny God nor His
evidences, and since his philosophy corresponds so widely with
the Bible and Bahá’í Writings, as will be demonstrated in this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
paper, this writer makes the personal assumption that he was
not only aided but also loved by Bahá’u’lláh. Should we not
apply this sentence to the philosophers who lived after the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, as well as, to the philosophers before
Him, whom He extolled, praising the merits of philosophers like
Socrates, Plato and Aristotle?
The idea, that there might be a correspondence between
modern philosophy and the Bahá’í Revelation, is not much
explored by Bahá’í writers and researchers. Nevertheless, there
are courageous attempts made in this direction.2
It is interesting to note that, for example, Terry Culhane3
never raises the question of how to explain the similarity of
ideas when comparing thoughts of Ken Wilber with the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. In his otherwise excellent book he
describes Ken Wilber’s theory about modernity, and he noted
parallels in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh without any further
consideration so that a reader could possibly believe that both
Wilber and Bahá’u’lláh are inspired by the same source. The
uniqueness of the Bahá’í Revelation is lost, and its world-
moving and world-creating influence can easily be overlooked.
In other words, what Bahá’u’lláh said about His Revelation is
not really taken into account.
This writer has in another paper 4 not only described the
similarities of Wilber’s thoughts with some Bahá’í principles,
but has also noted the substantial differences between their
basic philosophical understanding. Wilber’s philosophy is
basically pantheistic, and in his mystical tendencies he
attempts to find a way to God through the development of the
human rational ability, independent of all Manifestations.
Wilber explains that the previous founders of religions were
constrained by pre-scientific thinking, and he regards them as
unimportant and irrelevant. Therefore, his thinking can be
described as “spiritual materialism,” because the goal of his
meditations are to reach the divine through higher developed
spiritual abilities of man. He does not speak of a personal God,
but of “the all-pervading World Soul,” and he states that: “every
I becomes a God, and every WE becomes God’s sincerest
worship, and every IT becomes God’s temple.”5

The Word is the Master Key
This paper is another endeavor of this kind, and while
certainly provisional, and on the level of a personal opinion; it
follows a statement written on behalf of the Guardian of the
Bahá’í Faith, which said:
It is specially gratifying to see you realize the fact that
when the world has developed and been enlightened
enough through the unseen Powers of the Almighty, to
be led to the teachings and spirit of the Cause, it will be
our shameful task to go round proclaiming such
principles as we were taught so many years before and
none of which we had lived up to. (MSEI 56)
Can it be denied that the unseen powers of the Almighty can
and have actually influenced philosophers who lived after this
Revelation to be led to the teachings and the spirit of the
Cause? And should we avoid the admittedly shameful task, as
the Guardian instructed his secretary to write, to proclaim the
principles of the Faith by using the enlightened findings of
these philosophers? And when the above quote continues by
stating that we have not lived up to these principles, it seems to
point a finger at the sore spot of our present situation, which
has not changed much since these words were written.
What easily is overlooked is the fact that we have no absolute
choice in the philosophical assumptions and preconceptions we
bring to the Faith. We are frequently warned by Bahá’u’lláh that
knowledge can be a veil preventing understanding of His
revelation, nevertheless, we in the West come from post-
Christian, Christian and often Protestant backgrounds, and
carry the eggshells of our previous understandings with us.
Consequently, we think and perceive the world in the light of
our philosophical tradition and tend to explain the Writings in
that sense, often enough without reflecting on that fact. As
much as most Bahá’ís try to think in the way of the Writings,
traditional influences can never be totally avoided. Therefore,
any modern philosophical vision, which is critical of these
assumptions and which seems to be closer to the original
Christian and Bahá’í Revelations, can be very helpful indeed.
As a matter of fact, it is the purpose of this paper to show
that the Bahá’í Revelation has changed the way we need to think

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
about the basic reality of this world, to change the ontological
assumptions of traditional philosophy. The Bahá’í Revelation
has (we can describe it in a dialectic process) abolished the old
forms of understanding, has conserved their perennial truth
and has elevated them to a new understanding. And it is now
our obligation to find a new philosophical footing in the Bahá’í
Writings. Cannot what Shoghi Effendi said (below) about the
religions of the past also be applied, mutatis mutandis, to the
philosophies of history?
These divinely-revealed religions, as a close observer has
graphically expressed it, “are doomed not to die, but to
be reborn … ‘Does not the child succumb in the youth
and the youth in the man; yet neither child nor youth
perishes?’” (WOB 114)
The basic and underlying thought presented in this paper can
be stated here, anticipating its final conclusions.
• If the reality of the world is fundamentally personal
and spiritual and not substantial and material, and
• if the Word is the cause, the mediator and key to all
spiritual reality
Then it follows that
• The Word and only the Word is the cause and origin
of all reality.
• It brings into being all creative change in this world.
• The Word is further the cause of the beginning and
end of the world,
• as well as being the cause of and creating the New
World Order.
Before this comparison of the Writings and the dialogical
thinking can be made, it is necessary to explore the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh in this new area of understanding. What does He
say about the Word; what is His understanding of the
relationship between the Word, between spirituality or what
He calls the doors to heaven? The first three chapters are
dedicated to this task, yet, it must be mentioned that this

The Word is the Master Key
research was done with some understanding of Ebner’s
philosophy, because without this new understanding, the
traditional approach would act like a veil, preventing one from
having insight into the sacred Words.
This is actually not only a philosophical consideration; it
was a very personal experience. The book that introduced me
into Ebner’s writings was given to me when I had only an
initial knowledge of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. At that time I
could not understand the writings of Ferdinand Ebner and laid
the book aside, without attempting to read more than a few
paragraphs. Ten years later, when I accidentally looked again
into this book, I was fascinated by its philosophy and could
not prevent comparing it with many statements of the Bahá’í
Faith, reading and re-reading it and finding other books about
this seminal philosopher and others who presented similar
ideas.
In fact, the understanding of the Faith led me to an
understanding
of
Ferdinand
Ebner’s
thoughts.
The
correspondence was evident after I had only read the first
chapter, and it fascinated me throughout the reading. The
meaning of this experience can be best explained with the words
of the Guardian, as quoted above. I personally was surprised by
the idea that the power of the Almighty could have enlightened
Ferdinand Ebner among others,6 who, after the devastating
experience in the ditches and battle lines of World War I, had
developed this philosophy based on a new understanding of the
Christian faith.
The other basic statement of Bahá’u’lláh about philosophy is
equally verified where He said: The essence and the
fundamentals of philosophy have emanated from the Prophets.
(TB 145) Ferdinand Ebner bases his thinking on the Christian
message, mainly following Kierkegaard, yet developing his
thinking further. In a new and original way, he based his
thinking on the Prolog to the Gospel of John about the Word
that was in the Beginning with God. Of this passage ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá had said:
Consider the statement recorded in the first chapter of
the book of John: “In the beginning was the Word, and
the Word was with God, and the Word was God.” This

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
statement is brief but replete with the greatest
meanings. Its applications are illimitable and beyond
the power of books or words to contain and express.
(PUP 154)
While starting out from the philosophical understanding of the
word in concrete speech, all of Ferdinand Ebner’s philosophy
concludes in this statement, and when he speaks about his
philosophical findings about man, he states that it is not
original to him, because it has been stated before in the Gospel
of John.
It became clear to me that man is through the word,
what he is i.e., a human being. That in the word is the
key to his spiritual life. This basic thought is essentially
a ‘revolutionary’ thought, it is the most revolutionary
thought, humankind will ever think. But this thought is
not from me, and from whom it is, it is not only a
thought, but a life: ‘The Life.’7
With these words he is referring to John 1:1-3
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God.
All things were made by him; and without him was not
any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the
life was the light of men.
It has to be clearly stated in the beginning of this paper that
this writer is not an expert in the philosophy of Ferdinand
Ebner. As a matter of fact, Ebner’s original opus 8 is not even
available to him. He basically relies on two excellent
descriptions of Ebner’s work in which a rich selections of
Ebner’s statements are quoted, giving quite a thorough
understanding of Ebner’s original writings.9
Nevertheless, even in this form the parallels with the Bahá’í
Scriptures cannot be overlooked, and many concepts of Ebner
allow a better understanding of Bahá’í principles compared to
the attempt to understand the Writings with the tools of
classical and traditional philosophies.

The Word is the Master Key
The claim frequently made that the Bahá’í Writings are
presented in the frame of Platonic or Neo-platonic philosophy
will be especially clarified and criticized. The difference
between an idea and the word; between idealistic or substantive
thinking and dialogical and personal thinking, is clearly
developed by Ebner and seems to distinguish Platonic or Neo-
platonic thinking from the new dialogical thinking.
Without going any further into this issue at this point, the
traditional understanding of the Christian message needs to be
questioned as well, as far as “the Word” of the Gospel of John
is concerned. Has it not suffered the same fate, being
understood in the Platonic tradition, rather than the biblical
Tradition of Genesis?
Ebner anticipated the critique of traditional metaphysic by
Heidegger, but placed it strictly in the frame of substantial
thinking versus dialogical thinking, as will be explained below.
If the statement of Bahá’u’lláh in the title of this paper would
be following the Platonic tradition, He would have to say that
the “Idea is the master key to the whole world.” But it is not the
idea and/or the realm of ideas, but rather the Word, like in the
biblical tradition.10 The fact that the Greek word logos can
mean reason, idea and word has been one of the causes of this
confusion. With Ebner we must interpret the logos in the
tradition of Genesis 1:3 “And God said, Let there be light: and
there was light;” and it seems that this is the interpretation
which is indicated in the Bahá’í Writings as well.11
Ebner’s critique on traditional metaphysic and philosophy,
therefore, is helpful in understanding the Writings of the Faith.
This will become clearer in the section about dialogical and
personal thinking.
Bahá’u’lláh
In the following three sections some Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
are presented, which indicate the connection of His Revelation
with the Revelation of Christ, especially as it is expressed in the
Prolog to the Gospel of John. The second chapter will compare
the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh with the New Heaven and New
Earth of the book of Revelation, and will present a different

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
understanding of Revelation in the light of the Words of
Bahá’u’lláh. The final section will relate these findings to the
concept of the unity of the spiritual and material world.
The Word of Bahá’u’lláh
A high number of quotes can be found about the meaning of
the “Word” and the “Word of God” in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh. Here only a few and significant samples are
mentioned to get a comprehensive look of how the “Word” is
used in the Writings. The first is a description of the Word of
God, as used in the title of this paper, and what it means.
O friend of mine! The Word of God is the king of
words and its pervasive influence is incalculable. It
hath ever dominated and will continue to dominate the
realm of being. The Great Being saith: The Word is the
master key for the whole world, inasmuch as through
its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in
reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No sooner
had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone
forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed word ‘I
am the Best-Beloved’ was reflected therein. It is an
ocean inexhaustible in riches, comprehending all
things. Every thing which can be perceived is but an
emanation therefrom. High, immeasurably high is this
sublime station, in whose shadow moveth the essence
of loftiness and splendour, wrapt in praise and
adoration.12
The above paragraph is divided and commented on below,
sentence by sentence, to demonstrate its meaning.
O friend of mine! The Word of God is the king of
words and its pervasive influence is incalculable.
In this first sentence the Word of God is called the king of
words and its influence is called incalculable. How do we
understand that? A king is not only representative of the whole
country; in him the country is embodied and supported. So the
Word of God is representative of all words; it is also the origin
and cause of all words. It is, in other terms, the necessary and
sufficient condition of all spoken words between humans. The

The Word is the Master Key
emphasis is here on the spoken word, which will be clearer in the
section about dialogical thinking. The word is used not in a
metaphysical, symbolic or abstract way and does not include
derivatives such as mind, thought, reason and imagination. It
is not used in the specific way of Platonic or Hellenistic
thinking, in the way the term “logos” of John 1:1 was often
interpreted.
It hath ever dominated and will continue to dominate
the realm of being.
What is said in this sentence is an explanation of the absolute
royalty of the Word of God. It dominates not only thinking
and reasoning, nay; it dominates the realm of being. Quite
simply, the Word of God relates not only to the words of man
but to the whole realm of being, that is, the whole world, in the
past, present and future. In other words, all that exists is
dominated by the Word of God, not only the spiritual realm,
but matter equally so. There are no exceptions, whatever is;
whatever exists, is dominated by the Word of God. That this
understanding has implications towards the realm of being,
towards the ontological understanding of the world, is evident
and will be described later.
The Great Being saith:
The Word is the master key for the whole world,
inasmuch as through its potency the doors of the hearts
of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are
unlocked.
Here another aspect of the Word of God is described. The
picture of the master key (interestingly enough the term “key”
for the word is used by Ebner several times in a similar context)
is describing the fact that the Word of God opens up the
meaning of the whole world, brings us into the middle of what
is important in this world, and by doing so, leads us through
the hearts of men into heaven, into the realm of God.
Without this Master Key, the world becomes opaque, dark
und incomprehensible, no matter how many inventions and
natural laws modern science may detect.13 We must consider
that in the process of secularization the inner world of man has
become more obscure and less understandable in spite of all the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
progress in the sciences and in psychology and anthropology.
The most important aspects of the Word of God are the fact
that it originates and dominates the realm of being; that it
opens up the understanding of what is and makes manifest the
relationship this world has with its creator, with heaven.
No sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour
shone forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed
word ‘I am the Best-Beloved’ was reflected therein.
Again, here we have a specific, spoken word used to
demonstrate the effect and meaning of the Word of God.
Another important point of this sentence is the fact that the
Word of God in its splendor is related to love and affection.
It is the creative Word of God that through love and
affection brings the world into existence and keeps it in
existence. The actual word quoted here, “The Best-Beloved,” is
not just any word, it is the Word said by the Maid of Heaven 14
bringing Bahá’u’lláh the message of His mission as a
Manifestation of God while He was imprisoned in Teheran,
which event He describes in the following words:
While engulfed in tribulations I heard a most
wondrous, a most sweet voice, calling above My head.
Turning My face, I beheld a Maiden — the embodiment
of the remembrance of the name of My Lord —
suspended in the air before Me. So rejoiced was she in
her very soul that her countenance shone with the
ornament of the good pleasure of God, and her cheeks
glowed with the brightness of the All-Merciful. Betwixt
earth and heaven she was raising a call which captivated
the hearts and minds of men. She was imparting to
both My inward and outer being tidings which rejoiced
My soul, and the souls of God’s honoured servants.
Pointing with her finger unto My head, she addressed
all who are in heaven and all who are on earth, saying:
By God! This is the Best-Beloved of the worlds, and yet
ye comprehend not. This is the Beauty of God amongst
you, and the power of His sovereignty within you,
could ye but understand. This is the Mystery of God
and His Treasure, the Cause of God and His glory unto

The Word is the Master Key
all who are in the kingdoms of Revelation and of
creation, if ye be of them that perceive. This is He
Whose Presence is the ardent desire of the denizens of
the Realm of eternity, and of them that dwell within the
Tabernacle of glory, and yet from His Beauty do ye
turn aside. (SLH 5)
We have interrupted the sequence of the sentences of the
paragraph from the Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh with this statement in
order to explain what the Word ‘The Best-Beloved’ means. It
needs to be mentioned here, that this Word, like other Words
in the Revelation of God, can only be heard and really
understood by the inner ear, the ear given by the
Manifestation. And yet it is a word spoken to the inner and
outer being, as Bahá’u’lláh stated above. This is stated by
Bahá’u’lláh in the Valley of Unity: “With the ear of God he
heareth, with the eye of God he beholdeth the mysteries of
divine creation.”15
Here we have the question of how a spiritual hearing, a
hearing with the ear of God, transfers to the outer being, to the
rational mind and to external perception. This certainly is an
important theological question, which will not be further
pursued here. What needs to be mentioned here is the fact that
this issue presupposes the unity of spirit and matter, which
finds in man its highest expression and which has been
described by the mystics of all times.
It may suffice here to recognize that Bahá’u’lláh describes
the message of the Maid of Heaven in the following words: “She
was imparting to both My inward and outer being tidings
which rejoiced My soul, and the souls of God’s honoured
servants.” With these words He describes the mystical
experience of His soul as a spiritual (inner) and as a sensory
(outer) experience. The others, who do not listen with this ear,
are, as it is said here, unable to comprehend, unable to
understand and perceive, and so they will turn aside.
These Words to Bahá’u’lláh can be compared with the Words
of God in the Bible spoken to Adam, Abraham and Moses, and
the Words spoken to Christ during His baptism by John the
Baptist: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
(Matthew 3:17) The vocation of Paul on his way to Damascus can
be seen as another Word spoken by God.
We can follow the modern Bible Critique, which claims that
all these words are invented by the writer and only meant
symbolically, i.e., that they were never spoken, but only
recorded to convey a spiritual meaning. That way of
misinterpreting what the Scriptures actually says is more
difficult in the case of Bahá’u’lláh, because He recollects these
words Himself, and reports them as spoken to Him, and He
mentioned them several times in His Writings, even though in
different ways of description.16
Many times in this paper, the reader is asked to make a
choice. It is the choice indicated in the words of the Maid of
Heaven. Do you hear these words and accept them, or do you
not understand and turn aside? That this is not only a religious
decision which is asked, but also a decision that encompassed
the whole of man, his body, his mind, his intellect and
spirituality, is obvious. Equally evident is the fact, that the
whole life of a person depends on this choice, as well as all the
other choices and decision he will make. So it is not a question
of exegesis, it is a question of the fundamental aspect of being
human. This fundamental aspect of man, i.e., his spirituality
and its connection with the word, will further be clarified in
the section on Ferdinand Ebner.
Turning back to the last sentence from the paragraph of the
Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh we read about the Word of God:
It is an ocean inexhaustible in riches, comprehending
all things. Every thing which can be perceived is but an
emanation therefrom. High, immeasurably high is this
sublime station, in whose shadow moveth the essence
of loftiness and splendour, wrapt in praise and
adoration.
Two essential things are said here about the Word: that it is
inexhaustible and comprehends all things, and that nothing
that is perceived can be perceived independently from it. The
other statement is the fact that it is sublimely elevated, beyond
understanding, and that in His shadow all splendor, all praise,
and adoration is presented.

The Word is the Master Key
From this paragraph, several important conclusions can be
drawn in order to understand what Bahá’u’lláh means when He
speaks about the Word of God. We will present the following
conclusions here:
1. The Word of God is the actually spoken Word to the
Manifestation and to mankind.
2. The Word of God is the Manifestation.
3. All that exists, all that is created, is created by this Word
4. Therefore all that exists is a creation of God and can be
perceived only on that basis. The Word is the vehicle of
all creative processes; of the existence of the world and
the vehicle of the possibility to understand and perceive
the world in its condition as creation.
5. Consequently, all other understanding and scientific
inquiry is secondary to this understanding of the Word
of God.
While these words could be interpreted to mean that God
and the world are one, this pantheistic misunderstanding is
clearly refuted by Bahá’u’lláh. He states:
No tie of direct intercourse can possibly bind Him to
His creatures. He standeth exalted beyond and above
all separation and union, all proximity and remoteness.
No sign can indicate His presence or His absence;
inasmuch as by a word of His command all that are in
heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His
wish, which is the Primal Will itself, all have stepped
out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the
world of the visible. (KI 98)
The absolute separation of God from His creation is
affirmed, and then it is stated that the Word of God is the
cause of creation. The Word is identified as God’s Will, or His
Primal Will in which reality is becoming real, “out of
nothingness.” So both the biblical and the Islamic tradition
said the same, using different terms, the Word of God for the
Bible and the Will of God for Islam. Bahá’u’lláh combines these
two traditions in the above sentence and in other places. The

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Báb already had made statements applying the Word as well as
the Primal Will to Himself and to all Manifestations or
Prophets, saying:
Verily I am none other but the servant of God and His
Word, and none but the first one to bow down in
supplication before God, the Most Exalted; and indeed
God witnesseth all things.17
And He identifies the Manifestation with the Primal Will as
well.
It is this Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in
every Prophet and speaketh forth in every revealed
Book.18
While the theology of the Word and the Primal Will are an
important part of the Faith, it is here mentioned mainly as
basis for understanding the ontological questions about the
being of this world and its fundament. The crucial difference
of this understanding with the understanding of the Platonic
or Neo-Platonic school of thought is the difference between the
idea as something that can be thought about (by God and by
man) and the word as a personal and dialogical statement from
the “I” to the “Thou,” establishing both in their spirituality, as
Ebner would say. This difference will be closer examined below.
The second aspect to be considered here is the fact that the
perception of reality is fundamentally dependent on the Word
of God, which means that it depends on the word and not on
reason or intellect, that is, the faculties of perception. The
relation between the word and reason will have to be followed
up in the section on dialogical and personal thinking.
Consequently, the Word of God is the cause of existence,
and all that was created was created by the Word as stated in
John 1:3: “All things were made by him; and without him was
not any thing made that was made.”
There is another important verse of Bahá’u’lláh about the
Word of God which will be mentioned here. It describes the
unifying effect of the Word in relation to the multiplicity of
this world. This issue was presented by this author previously
in his paper about the Tablet of Wisdom.19

The Word is the Master Key
In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh stated:
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and
advance into the ocean of acceptance, so that we may
perceive, with an eye purged from all conflicting
elements, the worlds of unity and diversity, of
variation and oneness, of limitation and detachment,
and wing our flight unto the highest and innermost
sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of God.
(KI 160)
Again, this paragraph will be described in its pertinent
sections.
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and
advance into the ocean of acceptance, so that we may
perceive, with an eye purged from all conflicting
elements…
Here it is pointed out how to approach the truth presented
in the following verse. Bahá’u’lláh states the negative
conditions, which would prevent the understanding of the
following statement, and then mentions one positive condition
for this understanding.
Living in the land of denial and having eyes contaminated by
conflicting elements makes it impossible to understand the
following statement. This land of denial is, in this writer’s
opinion, the materialistic and scientistic misunderstanding of
reality. The contamination of the eye is the inability to the see
the whole, as well as being confined to the area of the
particular, which consequently results in a reductionistic
understanding of the universe, and ignores all meaning and
final causes of being. The land of denial is a description of
living a life that denies all higher values, all spiritual realities,
and consequently reduces all to its material aspect.
The best expression of this view and its consequences is
presented by Teilhard de Chardin, who has clearly described the
limitation of modern science (in an allusion to Darwin, who
speaks about the evolution of men’s bodily frame or bones 20),
when he stated:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
We know the history of his [of man’s] bones: but no
ordered place has yet been found in nature for his
reflective intelligence. In the midst of a cosmos in
which primacy is still accorded to mechanism and
change, thought — the redoubtable phenomenon which
has revolutionized the earth and is commensurate with
the world — still appears as an inexplicable anomaly.21
If, in the Darwinian worldview, man is an anomaly, then
something must be wrong with this view, which is based on a
cosmology of material mechanism and change. Consequently,
Darwin’s explanation of evolution, as dependent on random
change and natural selection, must be fundamentally incorrect
if it cannot explain the phenomenon of man. These are the
scientific findings of the Teilhard de Chardin, who in his book
“The Phenomenon of Man”22 has explored the evolutionary
understanding of the world and starts with the phenomenon of
man, describing an evolutionary vision which cumulates in this
phenomenon, rather than the vision that reduces the
phenomenon of man to material causes and mechanical
systems.
If we live in this materialistic and reductionistic
understanding of reality, we cannot understand what is said
next about this world, which is described in these three
statements. Bahá’u’lláh states that we may perceive “the worlds
of unity and diversity, of variation and oneness, of limitation
and detachment.”
In the logic of the traditional understanding these three
statements are contradictory. Unity is the opposite of
diversity, variation is the opposite of oneness, and limitation
and detachment are not related. Only when we leave the land of
materialistic denial and reductionistic understanding of this
world, only when we raise our minds above the scientific
abstraction23 of reality, could we possibly understand these
words. They place opposites not against each other, but
perceive one through the other and combine them to express a
better, more real and, what could be called, a more spiritual
understanding of reality. This is made clear in the next section,
where we are encouraged to “wing our flight unto the highest

The Word is the Master Key
and innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of
God.”
It is here made quite clear what allows us to understand the
integration of the opposites in the previous statements; it is
the inner meaning of the Word of God. This is described as the
highest and innermost sanctuary of human understanding. Any
lower level of understanding is not necessarily wrong, but it
cannot see the true reality of this world. So we must ask here,
what is this reality?
The Bahá’í principle of unity in diversity in all its different
applications becomes a more adequate and functional principle
of understanding this world. This will be further explained later
in this paper. The same is true about variation and oneness,
which is the old philosophical question about what is prior,
that is, what is more important, the whole or the parts? This
philosophical question has vast social applications, which reach
from absolute dictatorship to anarchy as the guiding principle
of human society.
We have seen during the last century the pernicious and
devastating effects of any one-sided understanding of reality,
where the whole is given priority over the parts or the part over
the whole. In the first case the parts, the individuals, are not
only neglected, but often disregarded and eliminated when
perceived to be in the way of the false understanding of unity,
of the whole. This happened in the monolithic and uniform
social arrangement in Nazism and Communism. The opposite
position, held in the world of individualism and gross
capitalism, has equally brought devastation and reduction of
human beings to means of production in this more
particularistic understanding of social relations.
This one-sided understanding of society and of the relation
between people can only be corrected through the inner
meaning of the Word of God as Bahá’u’lláh stated.
The conclusion to be made here and later in this paper is the
fact that the Word is the key of reality, and only in the proper
application of the Word is the reality seen correctly, so that
social and individual evil and wide spread devastation can be
prevented.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh and the N ew
World of the Book of R evelation
In this section the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh are discussed
which speak about the New World Order and their relation to
biblical statements in the book of Revelation about the new
heaven and new earth to come with the return of Christ. Shoghi
Effendi himself quotes this passage (Revelation 21:1-2) as a
prediction for the coming New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
and the real unity of mankind, when he states:
The writer of the Apocalypse, prefiguring the millennial
glory which a redeemed, a jubilant humanity must
witness, has similarly testified:
“And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first
heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there
was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, the
New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven,
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.”
(Revelation 21:1-2)24
It will be shown that these statements are accepted as signs for
the return of Christ, which is fulfilled in the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Bahá’u’lláh has interpreted this statement about the new
heaven and earth in a new way, different from the common
Christian understanding, by stating:
On the contrary, by the term “earth” is meant the earth
of understanding and knowledge, and by “heavens” the
heavens of divine Revelation. Reflect thou, how, in one
hand, He hath, by His mighty grasp, turned the earth of
knowledge and understanding, previously unfolded,
into a mere handful, and, on the other, spread out a
new and highly exalted earth in the hearts of men, thus
causing the freshest and loveliest blossoms, and the
mightiest and loftiest trees to spring forth from the
illumined bosom of man. (KI 47)
Clearly the new heaven and earth, as well as the new Jerusalem
coming down from heaven, is the new divine Revelation of the
Manifestation, and the earth is the understanding and

The Word is the Master Key
acceptance of this new Revelation. This is an understanding of
this word from the book of Revelation that is different from
what Christians usually believe.
The common Christian understanding of this passage
implies that at the return of Christ, the whole physical world
will change into a heavenly world. The passing away of the first
earth and the coming down of the new heaven and earth are
understood materialistically and physically. Consequently, the
return of Christ becomes the end of this world, which
interestingly is contrary to the actual words of the bible, which
speak of the end of an eon, not the end of the world. This
difference is not noted in most translations where the Greek
word: “the end of ‘αιωνοσ’ (aiwnos), eon,” is translated as end
of the world, instead of the end of an eon, of a long period of
time. (See Matthew 24:3 and 28:20)
At the conclusion of the gospel of Matthew, Christ did not
say: “I am with you always, even unto the end of the world.
Amen,” as translated in the King James Bible (Matthew 28:19).
The original Greek words of the Bible have Christ actually say:
“I am with you always; even unto the end of the eon. Amen.”
This fact demonstrates how easily a theological preconception
can influence translation and understanding of the actual
words of the Bible.
This understanding of the end of the world at the return of
Christ is based on the theological assumption that there will be
no other Revelation of God after the Christian Revelation. The
same assumption is made in the Islamic theology. In the Kitáb-
i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh stated that this interpretation has more to
do with the influence and power of the clergy, rather than with
the words of Christ.25
Contrary to that, Bahá’u’lláh addresses the followers of
Christianity and Islam, who believe that God’s Revelation is
closed with their respective Books, with the Bible or the
Qur’án, in these words:
Think ye, O My servants, that the Hand of My all-
encompassing, My overshadowing, and transcendent
sovereignty is chained up, that the flow of Mine
ancient, My ceaseless, and all-pervasive mercy is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
checked, or that the clouds of My sublime and
unsurpassed favors have ceased to rain their gifts upon
men? Can ye imagine that the wondrous works that
have proclaimed My divine and resistless power are
withdrawn, or that the potency of My will and purpose
hath been deterred from directing the destinies of
mankind?
Why have ye struggled to hinder the Manifestation of
the Almighty and All-Glorious Being from shedding the
radiance of His Revelation upon the earth? Were ye to
be fair in your judgment, ye would readily recognize
how the realities of all created things are inebriated
with the joy of this new and wondrous Revelation, how
all the atoms of the earth have been illuminated through
the brightness of its glory. Vain and wretched is that
which ye have imagined and still imagine!  (GWB 323)
This difference in the understanding of the return of Christ
and the end of the world is crucial for the understanding of
what the world is in reality, and creates a different ontological
view of this world.
The traditional Christian theological view of the world
places the reality of the world into the physical world, and then
a spiritual or supernatural realm is superimposed on this
physical world. Heaven and Earth are understood as those two
components of the world; the physical earth of man is
contrasted with the divine heaven, where God and all
supernatural entities are housed, and where the saved humanity
eventually will find its mansions.
Consequently, the origin of the world in the Word is
understood symbolically, and Christ is identified with God, so
that there is no need to explain the words of the gospel of John
because the Logos, the Word, or Christ is part of God in the
Trinity and is in heaven, so that the earth is the physical realm
where man lives and where God (Christ) descended to save man
in order that all saved ones can go to that very heaven. Christ
will return and complete this process, and then there will no
longer be a physical world and the history of this world will
have been ended.

The Word is the Master Key
In this theological worldview, Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration that
He is the return of Christ makes absolutely no sense, because
with His arrival, the world did not end and the physical
explanation of the book of revelation does not make sense
under these assumptions.
The only way of making sense of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement is to
base the existence of this world on the Word of God, as John 1
seems to do. If the Word is the basis of reality and not the
physical, material world, the substance of beings, then the
Word can change, renew and create a new world whenever it is
spoken anew by God. And that is exactly what Bahá’u’lláh said
in this prayer:
I testify that no sooner had the First Word proceeded,
through the potency of Thy will and purpose, out of
His mouth, and the First Call gone forth from His lips
than the whole creation was revolutionized, and all that
are in the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred
to the depths.
Through that Word the realities of all created things
were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered,
combined and reunited, disclosing, in both the
contingent world and the heavenly kingdom, entities of
a new creation, and revealing, in the unseen realms, the
signs and tokens of Thy unity and oneness.
Through that Call Thou didst announce unto all Thy
servants the advent of Thy most great Revelation and
the appearance of Thy most perfect Cause. (PM 295)
Again, note that in this statement the Word is not
understood symbolically, it is “out of His mouth,” and “gone
forth from His lips”: it is the actually spoken words, spoken to
the world, spoken to humankind. This Word causes a
revolution of the realities of all created things, of the whole
creation; it shakes, divides, separates, scatters the whole reality
of this world and finally combines and reunites it.
It needs to be emphasized that the reality of the whole
creation includes both the contingent and the heavenly
kingdom.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
This process caused by that Word is explained as a new
creation of the contingent and heavenly kingdom, and in these
seen and unseen realms are revealed the signs and tokens of
God’s unity and oneness. God’s unity and oneness are unseen,
are spiritual, and are present in both worlds, in the contingent
and in the heavenly world. One could formulate this vision
meaning that God’s Word creates the unity and oneness of
these two kingdoms; it unites the contingent world with the
spiritual word.
In other words, the spiritual world, caused by the Word is
the uniting factor of this contingent, diverse and manifold
world. And it has far reaching ontological implications,
basically replacing the concept of substance with the concept
of the Word, implying the spiritual aspect of the contingent
world. This spiritual understanding is the new world of the
book of Revelation. This description is actually the condition
of the possibility to understand the new heaven and earth
coming from heaven with the new Manifestation.
It is clear that the traditional interpretation of the end of
the world with the returning Christ will prevent us from even
conceiving of the possibility that Christ has already returned.
This situation is similar to the position of the Jews at the time
of Jesus, who expected the Messiah to liberate Israel and
destroy the Romans. Since Christ did not do that, He could
not be the true Messiah. In the same way, since Bahá’u’lláh has
in no obvious way changed the physical world as we know it;
He cannot be the returned Christ.
On the other hand, if the new heaven and new earth is not the
physical renewal but a renewal of heaven and earth, of the
contingent and heavenly kingdom in a spiritual way, than these
questions remain: what does this say about heaven and earth;
what does this say about the ontological question; and, what is
the being of this universe? In order to be able to accept the
words of Revelation, we have to search for a different
understanding of the world — of earth and heaven, as the Bible
calls it.
The gospel of John gives us the key. If all what was created
was created by the Word of God, then the creation must be
understood from the Word and not from its physical and

The Word is the Master Key
substantial reality. This is, in this writer’s opinion, the
revolutionary aspect of which Bahá’u’lláh speaks when talking
about His New World Order.
It is quite clear that the coming of Bahá’u’lláh has in no
obvious way changed the physical world where we live. The
reality we face in our life, as well as the reality science is
exploring, seems to be the same than before, and all changes in
the spiritual understanding of this world and the meaning of
life do not seem to amount to such a drastic statement, that is,
the old world has passed away and the new world has come
down from heaven with the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
In other words, we must ask, is this statement of Revelation
only a spiritual truth, or is it an ontological statement,
explaining what created being is and what the fundament of
our physical world is. It could be formulated as the question
about what is material and what is spiritual and how these two
concepts belong together.
In his article on Bahá’í Ontology, Ian Kluge26 makes a point
in his rejection of Phenomenalism, quoting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement:
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends
upon the substance of the body, although, on the
contrary, the rational soul is the substance, and the
body depends upon it. If the accident — that is to say,
the body — be destroyed, the substance, the spirit,
remains.27
What is stated here certainly does use the term substance in
the traditional meaning, but it makes a drastic difference to
the understanding of this term. In Idealism (of Hegel) the
substance is the spirit (“der Geist”), in materialism (by Marx)
the substance is matter. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá seems to indicate that
they are not separated, and if the term substance needs to be
used, it better applies to the spirit rather than to matter, which
He describes as being accidental to the spirit, the soul. It is this
writer’s opinion that this statement has to be based on the
principle that the Word is the key to the understanding of this
relationship between spirit and matter, body and soul, which is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
clearly expressed in the Writings, as exposed above. In this
context, the words about substance are not indicating that the
substance is the final and ultimate element of being, which
Kant has criticized, distinguishing between noumenon and
phenomenon, and this distinction will be explained below in
the section of Ebner, who places the emphasis on the Word, as
the Writings seem to do as well.
This question, about what is the substance and what is the
world, leads us into the next chapter about the Unity of the
Material World and the Spiritual World, of the contingent
kingdom and the heavenly kingdom.
Unity of the Material World and Spiritual World

The thoughts presented in this chapter have been developed
by this author in a paper called “Unity and Progressive
Revelation, Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the Basic
concepts of Teilhard de Chardin” at the Irfán Colloquium 2003
in Bosch, California 28 and will be presented here abbreviated
and further developed. The reason why Teilhard was chosen in
this comparison is similar to the reason for choosing
Ferdinand Ebner for this paper, as explained in the
Introduction to this paper (above). In this paper (Klebel, 2003)
it was stated:
Teilhard de Chardin was chosen for this investigation
as representing the progressive movements of today.
While writing in the first halve of the last century
Teilhard has a rather significant following today. It has
been shown that he is the most quoted author in the
writings of the “New Age” literature and does seem to
attract many seeking souls of today. 29 In addition
there is a rather significant influence of his thinking in
today’s discussion of religion and of the future of the
world, which makes him an author, whose importance
might be rising, rather then diminishing. There are a
number of books available about him and his books are
available in new editions.
Two statements were compared about this issue, from
Teilhard and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

The Word is the Master Key
Teilhard:
It (the spirit) in no way represents some entity, which
is independent of matter or antagonistic to it, some
force locked up in, or floating in, the physical world.
By spirit I mean ‘the spirit of synthesis and
sublimation,’ in which is painfully concentrated,
through endless attempts and setbacks, the potency of
unity scattered throughout the universal multiple:
spirit which is born within, and as a function of
matter.30
‘Abdu’l-Bahá presents the following understanding of the
relationship between material things and the spiritual world,
and He claims that even the smallest particles in the world of
being are manifesting the grace and bounty of God, indicating
the union of spirit, or grace of God and matter:
From separation doth every kind of hurt and harm
proceed, but the union of created things doth ever yield
most laudable results. From the pairing of even the
smallest particles in the world of being are the grace
and bounty of God made manifest; and the higher the
degree, the more momentous is the union.31
The conclusion from this comparison is the fact that unity
of spirit and matter was expressed in the Bahá’í Writings and is
found as well in modern philosophy by Teilhard and others. As
pointed out above, Bahá’u’lláh stated “the worlds of unity and
diversity, of variation and oneness, of limitation and
detachment” can only be understood when we elevate our
thinking, “and wing our flight unto the highest and innermost
sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of God.”32 This
flight is necessary in order to understand the world as seen by
Bahá’u’lláh, and this world is the New Heaven and New Earth of
Revelation, or the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
The Unity of humanity and of all nations is one of the
familiar principles of the Bahá’í Faith. This author attempts to
show how this unity is not only a political and social
phenomenon, but an ontological principle that pervades the
Bahá’í Revelation, even though it is mainly expressed in the
principle of the Unity of Mankind. This development is, in this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
writer’s opinion, already clearly stated in the Writings, but
usually not noticed theoretically.
Ferdinand Ebner has expressed this idea of the unity of
mankind as an ontological principle, which follows from the
“I” — “Thou” relationship between God and man, when he
stated:
In this world we people live separately from each other
as millions of ‘I-s’ — what a desperate word
formulation — only connected through love. Yet,
before God we are all — absolutely all: criminal and
saint, good and bad, mentally healthy and mentally ill —
one unique ‘I’ towards the unique ‘Thou.’ Because the
‘I’ and the ‘Thou’ does not know ‘plurality.’
This unity of humankind is based on the ontological unity of
the creation; it seems to be the opposite of the statement of
Jesus:
Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not
one of them is forgotten before God? But even the very
hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore:
ye are of more value than many sparrows. (Luke 12:6-7)
Again, this looks like a contradiction that before God
humankind is a unity; nevertheless, all the hairs of our heads are
numbered by God. Nevertheless, it just gives us an
understanding what unity in diversity really is, the more unity,
the more the diversity and specialty of the individual is
possible. This understanding of unity in diversity is only
possible when we “wing our flight unto the highest and
innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of
God,” as Bahá’u’lláh stated.33
It has to be noted that this understanding of the ontological
spiritual unity of reality was communicated basically to all
Bahá’ís who met Bahá’u’lláh and believed in Him. Their
readiness to martyrdom can hardly be explained any other way.
In their love for Bahá’u’lláh they knew and were certain that the
spiritual world of Unity with God is real and present, and the
material life is only a temporary situation that can easily be
sacrificed for this heavenly value, as Bahá’u’lláh stated in a
prayer:

The Word is the Master Key
Thou art He Who, through a word of Thy mouth, hath
so enravished the hearts of Thy chosen ones that they
have, in their love for Thee, detached themselves from
all except Thyself, and laid down their lives and
sacrificed their souls in Thy path, and borne, for Thy
sake, what none of Thy creatures hath borne.34
The Báb before Him had said something similar about those
who exalt the Word and Unity of God:
How numerous the souls raised to life who were
exposed to dire humiliation in Thy Path for exalting
Thy Word and for glorifying Thy divine Unity! How
profuse the blood that hath been shed for the sake of
Thy Faith to vindicate the authenticity of Thy divine
Mission and to celebrate Thy praise! 35
At this point it is necessary to further explain how this
ontological principle needs to be understood. These are the
conclusions of this section about the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,
made in the first chapter of this paper:
1. The Word of God is the actually spoken Word to the
Manifestation and to mankind.
2. The Word of God is the Manifestation.
3. All that exists, all that is created, is created by this Word
4. Therefore all that exists is a creation of God and can be
perceived only on that basis, the Word is the vehicle of
these processes, of the existence of the world and the
vehicle of the possibility to understand and perceive the
world in its condition as creation.
5. Consequently, all other understanding and scientific
inquiry is secondary to this understanding of the Word
of God.
The second chapter explained that the New World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh is the direct explanation of the Words of
Revelation, as stated by Shoghi Effendi.
6. The New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh is a new
understanding of this world of being and is based on

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Bahá’u’lláh as the return of Christ and His statement of
the fundamental renewal of the whole world.
7. This New World Order is created through the Word of
God, coming out of the mouth and from the lips of the
Manifestation, dissolving and renewing the ontological
existence of this world.
In the last chapter again the relationship of the world of
contingency and the world of unity was explained, and the
philosophy of Teilhard de Chardin was used to put these
thoughts into modern terms. Therefore we can conclude that
8. The Unity of Humanity is based on the understanding of
the fundamental unity of matter and spirit as a new
ontological principle, which is based on the Word of
God as expressed in the Bahá’í Writings, and before in
the Prolog of the Gospel of John.
“Teachings and Spirit of the Cause” in
Today’s Thinking
In the following sections we pursue the words written on
behalf of the beloved Guardian stating that:
the world has developed and been enlightened enough,
through the unseen Powers of the Almighty; to be led to
the teachings and spirit of the Cause.36
What is understood here by “world”? We have to interpret this
statement in the context of another description of the world
today:
Such simultaneous processes of rise and of fall, of
integration and of disintegration, of order and chaos,
with their continuous and reciprocal reactions on each
other, are but aspects of a greater Plan, one and
indivisible, whose Source is God, whose author is
Bahá’u’lláh, the theater of whose operations is the
entire planet, and whose ultimate objectives are the
unity of the human race and the peace of all mankind.37
These processes, “authored” by Bahá’u’lláh, are presently
overshadowing the world. There are forces, views and thoughts

The Word is the Master Key
that lead into fall, disintegration and chaos of the old order,
simultaneously intermingled with the opposite forces of
integration, rise and order, all leading to the unity of mankind
and the new World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
We must conclude, therefore, that it is required for us to
distinguish between these opposite forces and to judge today’s
thoughts and worldviews on this line of demarcation. The
Writings of the Prophet are the guidelines we need to use. Any
judgment must follow the statement of Bahá’u’lláh in the
Tablet of Wisdom quoted above about the true philosopher:
that he “never deny God,” that he “promote the best interests of
humanity,” and that he is “loved” and “aided” by Bahá’u’lláh.38
It is understood that such a judgment, unless clearly supported
by the Writings, is personal, individual and tentative. In no
way is it authoritative, and therefore it is open to consultative
dialogue and revision, yet we are encouraged by the Guardian
not overlook this fact.
Several different developments are considered here in this
light. Being a professional psychologist, I start with
psychological writers, presenting this new understanding, and
after that the philosophical thinkers of it will be discussed. The
selection is personal and limited, yet it is hoped that in the
future others can be added and the topic can be expanded.
First the psychological understanding of human reality by D.
W. Winnicott39 is selected in his concept of play and culture,
and the analysis of the therapeutic situation in Robert Lang’s 40
thoughts about the Bipersonal Field. Both think in the
psychoanalytic tradition but are expanding Freud’s thoughts
into the area of culture and dialogue. What is here called
culture as a psychological concept opens up the discussion into
the area of religion and spirituality. 41 We conclude this section
with some new findings of the new science of neurocardiology,
indicating the role of the heart in this process.
Another important thought to be considered here is that
modern physics, especially quantum mechanics, does provide a
philosophical basis of a new understanding of reality, which is
more congenial to the Bahá’í Writings than the Newtonian
worldview of a mechanical system in space and time.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The next step in this process of finding the forces of
integration, rise and order in today’s psychological and
philosophical thinking is to turn to those philosophers who
have developed the personal-dialogical thinking. We will
concentrate our investigation on Ferdinand Ebner as the
representative of this thinking that comes closest to the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, as will be shown below.
It needs to be noted that this list is neither comprehensive
nor is it optimal, due to the fact that it is personally developed
by this writer, and needs to stand the test of time and critical
evaluation. Another issue is the fact that there needs to be more
time to be able to overlook the present development of the
world’s thinking and to make a more definite judgment. On the
other hand it appears that this sorting out of modern thinkers
has to start and is most valuable in the process of
discriminating and understanding the above mentioned
process of integration and disintegration, of order and chaos
in today’s world, which must be applied, not only to politics
and economics, but also to philosophy and thinking.
New Findings in Psychology and Neurocardiology
Psychology
This section will be relatively short and more descriptive
than explorative. Winnicott42 describes the origin of the
cultural space in the developing child. He calls this space “the
place where we live,” indicating the ontological and personal
aspect of it. He describes that this space is initiated in the
child, sitting on the lap of her mother, looking at her, touching
her, and eventually listening and talking to her, and in this
process recognizing the otherness of mother, and eventually the
selfness of herself.
This rather enchanting developmental picture indicates that
culture and all other experiences of the “inner” space “where we
live” are originated and developed in the dialogue between
mother (or the mothering one) and the child, and that the
establishment of the cultural space is based on this interaction,
on this in-between, as Winnicott calls it. This is the place
where the growing child finally is able to call herself “I” and

The Word is the Master Key
speak to the “You” (or ‘Thou” as used forthwith), in the other,
recognizing herself in the other. This experience originates the
development of the conscious self and the cultural realm of this
consciousness, which in the Bahá’í Writings is called the inner,
the hidden or the unseen realm of reality, which can be called
the spiritual realm as well.
The question of where culture comes from originally is not
addressed by Winnicott but can be answered in many ways.
Today in science the answer is often given in the Neo-
Darwinian sense, that culture developed through accidental
mutation and selection of the fittest in the struggle of survival.
This is a gratuitous assumption, which certainly cannot and
has not been proven by science. 43 This assumption is made by
all who refuse to accept anything higher than the material, who
do not see the unity and wholeness of this world, and who have
to find an explanation for things not material, therefore
relying on the understanding as presented in the philosophy of
reductionism, i.e., reducing the higher to the lower, and
explaining the development of the higher through an accidental
aggregation of the lower.
Consequently in this materialistic view, the higher concepts,
such as culture, have no independent existence, are really “not
real,” and therefore are often compared to fairytales like Santa
Claus. Winnicott sees the whole human being and asks how
does it develops and brings the example of a tradition of
culture from one generation to the next. The question of the
origin of culture does not come into his view.
The Bahá’í Writings speak of the new, spiritual civilization
which is brought about by every Manifestation. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
in His speeches in Europe mentioned the fact that the Christian
Civilization was originated by Christ, and that even the
material civilization is dependent on the Prophets, following a
statement of Bahá’u’lláh that the “The essence and the
fundamentals
of
philosophy
have
emanated
from
the
Prophets.”44 So ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated:
The philosophers have founded material civilization.
The Prophets have founded divine civilization. Christ
was the Founder of heavenly civilization. Mankind

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
receives the bounties of material civilization as well as
divine civilization from the heavenly Prophets.45
He affirms the same for the Jewish civilization and the
civilizations of the East, when He stated:
The Jews were in the lowest condition of ignorance,
and captives under Pharaoh when Moses appeared and
raised them to a high state of civilization.46
In former days, in the time of the Buddha and
Zoroaster, civilization in Asia and in the East was very
much higher than in the West and ideas and thoughts
of the Eastern peoples were much in advance of, and
nearer to the thoughts of God than those of the West.47
Concluding this train of thought, it can be stated that the
Bahá’í Writings clearly attribute the origin and the renewal of
all human civilization (and culture, we might add) to the
Founders of the world religions, and not to any accidental
change that allowed better adjustment in the struggle of
survival. In the present debate between the “intelligent design”
and the so-called “scientific” understanding of the world, this
distinction would be helpful.
Back to psychology. Robert Langs48 has developed the
communicative approach in psychoanalysis. He starts with an
analysis of the dialogue between therapist and client, and
develops some remarkable insights into this process that have
never been studied as closely and systematically before. Here
only some of his findings will be commented about. One is the
importance of what he calls the Bipersonal Field, a concept he
developed. The in-between space between the therapist and the
client is not unique; it is only more specific and can be studied
easier than the space or field in which all serious dialogues
occur.
The interesting point to be made here is the fact that in this
dialogue, even if factual issues are discussed, the deeper
meaning is always personal, or as Langs says it, there is always
an adaptive context involved, and this context relates directly
to the other in this dialogue. What does that mean in the frame
of this paper? What Langs has shown so convincingly and
elaborated so thoroughly is the fact that all communication is

The Word is the Master Key
primarily
personal,
and
only
secondarily
conferring
information about other things.49 It is the word that creates
this ability of communicating between the “I” and the “Thou”
between the patient and the therapist in this case.
Philosophically, it appears to be legitimate to expand this
concept
of
the
Bipersonal
Field
to
all
meaningful
communication, but only a few consequences of this expansion
will be followed up here.
A. Bonac has developed a study on child development
following Langs’ communicative approach, and he established,
among others, an interesting principal theorem, stating that
“The capacity to unconsciously perceive interactions with
others in a veridical manner is an inborn capacity of the human
mind”50 He applied the principles of the communicative
approach to the study of children and found that to
unconsciously perceive interactions with others in a veridical
manner is true even for newborn children in their interactions
with their mother. There is, therefore, an inborn ability to
relate, to truly, even if unconsciously, relate to the other. This
is the psychological pre-condition not only of therapy, but also
of all human relationships. It appears that this inborn capacity
to relate is the beginning of what we call the inner, or the
spiritual aspect of life.
Another issue mentioned by Langs is his instruction to the
therapist to start the therapeutic session without desire,
memory and understanding.51 This alone guarantees that the
patient will be heard, and this will enable true communication,
excluding all counter-transferences and all attempts by the
therapists to place his understanding into the patient.
It is interesting to note that these three issues are mentioned
similarly by Bahá’u’lláh among the preconditions for a true
seeker and for listening to His Words.
O My brother! When a true seeker determineth to take
the step of search in the path leading unto the
knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all
else, cleanse his heart, which is the seat of the revelation
of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring dust
of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the
embodiments of satanic fancy.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Here the heart has to be cleansed from all obscuring dust of all
acquired knowledge, which is equally important if we want to
understand our fellow man, as it is an absolute requirement to
hear the message of the Prophet. Further it is said:
He must so cleanse his heart that no remnant of either
love or hate may linger therein, lest that love blindly
incline him to error, or that hate repel him away from
the truth.52
He must therefore, refrain from all desire, from love and
hate, in order to be able to see the truth. This similarity of
approach is probably not a coincidence, and it seems to be
inherent in the process of listening to real communications.
This interesting parallel of thought leads us directly to the
next chapter on Ferdinand Ebner, in whose philosophy the
meaningfully spoken word between the “I” and the “Thou,”
where the communication through the word plays such an
important role. True, Ebner speaks from a different tradition
than Langs, but he was not unfamiliar with Freud, whose
thinking can be regarded as the bridge between these two
thinkers.
Another difference is that neither Winnicott nor Langs is
interested in the religious or spiritual aspect of the therapeutic
communication, while Ebner’s writings are concentrated on
these issues. And Langs speaks in the American tradition of
psychoanalysis, while Ebner comes from the thinking of
Kierkegaard and the other dialogical thinkers.53
Neurocardiology
Besides the psychological conditions of true communication
there are other new aspects to be considered. This is the new
field of neurocardiology. The findings of this discipline
culminate in the fact that the heart has not only what can be
called a brain, that 60% of the heart are nerves, but additionally
the heart has memory, predilections and does make decisions.
This not-well-explored field gives us, at least speculatively, the
possibility to place “the capacity to unconsciously perceive
interactions with others in a veridical manner” as being “an

The Word is the Master Key
inborn capacity” not in “the human mind,” but more likely in
the human heart.
In order to give this speculation more substance it might be
considered that the brain of the newborn child is in a very
primitive state and needs several years to develop. Contrary to
the brain, the heart starts functioning early during the fetal life
and is fully developed with the first cry of the baby when
replacing the maternal heart. It is not unlikely that the child’s
heart develops under the influence of the mother’s heart. It may
be likened to a heart transplant, where the heart functions
satisfactorily long before neural connections to the brain can
be established.
The function of the heart to communicate emotional states
to other people close by has been proven scientifically as well,
and seems to open up new horizons of unity and
communication.54
New Findings in Physics: Quantum Mechanics and God
Here a note about quantum mechanics seems to be
appropriate. Recent developments in this branch of physics
have lead to astonishing results. Even a regular textbook on
Quantum Mechanics, like the one written by Alastair I.M. Rae
for example, ends in a chapter which indicates that Quantum
Mechanics raises the question of ontology, the question: ‘what
is reality.’ This book leaves the answer open and concludes
“that there are still some real problems in the grey area where
physics and philosophy meet.”55 There are several theories about
the ontological meanings of physics as it evolved. They all try
to find a new philosophical basis for the findings of this new
research, which has certainly put to rest the old Newtonian,
mechanistic and materialistic worldview that was prevalent in
science before.
Other physicists are more courageous and try to find
conclusions that include not only physics but also human
conscience. The most elaborate description of this point of
view is the book by Evan Harris Walker, The physics of
consciousness, Quantum Minds and the Meaning of Life.56 In
this book the question of God is raised, after a thorough
description
of
Quantum
Mechanics
and
an
ongoing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
discussion
about
the
philosophical
and
systematical
implication of the different theories of this new science. So he
says: “We have examined the world, the physics of particles, the
nature of mind and will, and the things that tie it all
together.”57 He clearly distances himself from any materialistic
worldview of the old physic when he says: “But it has only been
with the advent of quantum theory that we have discovered
proof that we exist as something more than pieces of matter.”58
He states that he started out as a “most ardent student of
objective science,” and that he was led to this new
understanding in his pursuit of scientific search: “The tools of
science permit us to question, test, and dispute atheistic
doctrines posing as scientific principle.”59 And he speaks of the
consequences
to
religion
of
this
scientific
theory.
Consequently, he speaks of the unity of all religions in an
interesting development of his physical theory of Quantum
Mechanics when he states:
We need a better way to seek out truth, to assimilate
the jewels of all our religious teaching into one
universal faith founded in knowledge that we can verify
as we do the facts of science. I hope that the
discoveries recorded in this book are the beginning of
such a mission. No one who believes in the truth of any
of the world’s great religions should fear losing any
essential part of that faith by testing its truth against
what we can learn with this new science.60
This statement, which sounds almost as a description of the
Bahá’í principles of progressive revelation and independent
investigation of truth, and of one universal faith, from a
physicist? When talking about the fabric of reality he
concludes: “This is the Omnipresence, the Omniscience, the
Omnipotence of Abraham’s God, at once personal and
supreme.”61 He concludes his study of Quantum Mechanics
and summarizes his study of physics with the words: “We have
seen that the universe springs from every thought of God and
matter from the very existence of mind. We have looked to find
reality. We have seen beyond the open door.”62 Again, this can
be understood as a proof of the Bahá’í principle of the harmony
between science and religion.

The Word is the Master Key
From these findings we can at least conclude, that recent
scientific findings are not necessarily materialistic and
atheistic. They certainly do open the philosophical basis of
religion and its entire moral, ethical system of values. This is a
far cry from what was thought during the 19th century and can
be seen as a progress of human development that has not yet
reached the majority of humanity, but is changing the world in
which we live. Concluding this section on physics, we again will
quote from the book of Walker:
We have searched back to the beginning of time and to
the origin of the universe to find the first thought, the
first word of God springing into existence as
consciousness and physical matter.63
Nothing more needs to be said in support of the topic of
this paper, following the words of Bahá’u’lláh describing God’s
Word as the Master key of the whole world.
Concluding this section, it can be stated that some recent
psychological, neurological and physical developments have
lead us into a better understanding of what the in-between, or
the Bipersonal Field is, and how it is concentrated in the heart.
Culture and communication is placed in the in-between in
which the healing process of therapy is applied. These findings
prepare us to see the “place where we live” in the communicative
or Bipersonal Field, which findings will be expanded by Ebner,
into the Word that was “in the beginning” and that constitutes
the essence of man, his spirituality, as well as the real nature of
the world and its physical and conscious aspects. From there is
only a small step to conclude to the passage in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings that “the Word is the master key for the whole
world,” or as Ferdinand Ebner says, that
…in the word is the key to men’s spiritual life, the key
not only to ‘objective knowledge’ but also and
foremost to the “subjective” (and one could say
existential) opening of his spiritual life.64

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Ferdinand Ebner, The “I — Thou” relationship and
Spirituality
In this section the dialogical thinking of Ferdinand Ebner 65
and others will be briefly summarized, especially as it relates to
the Bahá’í Revelation about the Word, the master key for the
whole world, as commented in the first section of this paper.
Obviously, to present here a comprehensive description of
Ferdinand Ebner’s thoughts is impossible. As much as possible
in this paper, we are attempting to let Ebner speak in his own
words to make the reader familiar with him. Hence the number
of quotes.
In the introduction, Ferdinand Ebner’s (1882-1931) basic
thoughts were quoted, and he concludes that these thoughts are
not original to him because they have been stated before in the
Gospel, John 1:1-2.
It became clear to me that man is through the word,
what he is, i.e. a human being. That in the word is the
key to his spiritual life. This basic thought is essentially
a ‘revolutionary’ thought, it is the most revolutionary
thought, humankind will ever think. But this thought is
not from me, and from whom it is, it is not only a
thought, but a life: ‘The Life.’66
While these words and Ebner’s philosophy of the word, or
dialogue, are directed towards this statement of the Bible,
basically ending in theology, he based his philosophy on the
principle of the word, the spoken word and its meaning. This
genuine philosophical origin of his thinking was stated in his
basic thoughts, which will be presented here:67
1. Human existence basically has spiritual meaning, i.e.,
Man is spiritual because he is fundamentally designed
towards something spiritual outside of him, through
which, and in which, he actually exists: The “I” is
constituted by the relation to the “Thou.”
2. How does this become apparent? The expression of the
spiritual existence of man is the fact that man is a
speaking being. This is objectively demonstrable.

The Word is the Master Key
3. Therefore, the thought must be contemplated that this “I
— Thou” relationship is given
a) Through the Word,
b) In the Word, and
c) As Word
4. That means, this relationship exists in the actuality of the
spoken word, in the situation of being spoken to, which
is in Talk — in Dialogue.
Without knowing of the Bahá’í Revelation, Ferdinand Ebner
has developed an understanding of spirituality based on the
spoken word that is genuinely related to the Bahá’í Writings, as
will be shown here. And, he has connected it definitely with the
statement of the Scripture in the Prologue of the Gospel of
John.
It should be noted here that Ebner clearly developed his
dialogical thinking from an analysis of the spoken word and of
the relationship between the “I” and the “Thou.” Only after he
also recognized that this relationship is expressed in the
Scripture did he referred to the Gospel. This is important to
note. Ebner did not start with the Scripture, he did not develop
a theological thesis; to the contrary, he started from a
philosophical basis, from the actually spoken word.
This is expressed in the above quoted basic thought of
Ebner, where he stated that in contemplating the relationship
between the “I” and the “Thou” it is evident that this
relationship creates the spiritual existence of man through the
word. This is the cultural realm, or the place where we live,
indicated by Winnicott as mentioned above, and the
Bipersonal Field as Langs has explored in every true verbal
interaction, like therapy.
So said Ebner:
That is the essence of language — of the word — in its
spirituality, that it is something that happens between
the “I” and the “Thou,” between the first and the
second person, as it is said in the grammatical analysis,
it is, therefore, something that presupposes the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
relationship between the “I” and the “Thou” but also
creates this relationship.68
The word, while constituting the “I” and the “Thou,” creates
the spirituality between them or, to speak with Winnicott,
creates the place where we live. Ebner expresses the fact that the
word creates spirituality, when he said:
The “word” makes life (in the human person) to spirit —
spirit makes the word come alive. The secret of the
word is the secret of spirit.69
In different ways Ebner has expressed his thoughts that the
word opens man to the other, and in that process man becomes
himself a spiritual being, as expressed in the following:
It became clear to me what the meaning of the fact is
that man is a speaking being. That, in the middle of a
voiceless world he is the only being that ‘has the word.’
It became clear to me, that man is through the word,
what he is, ‘a human being’; that in the word is the key
to his spiritual life. The key not only to “objective
knowledge” but foremost the key to a “subjective” (one
could say existential) opening of his spiritual life. And
it became clear to me that the Word is from God.
Because, as God created man through the Word by
speaking to him: I AM and through me you are.
Therefore, all knowledge of God is given to him through
the Word. This word is the basis of man’s
consciousness
and
enlightens
it
into
“self-
consciousness.”70
The road from the relationship between the “I” and the
“Thou” to the Divine Word follows logically. Since the “I” and
the “Thou” is created in their spirituality through the word,
and since this spirituality is essential to man, the question
arises: wherefrom does it come? Neither I nor you have it
originally to give it to the other, since we are constituted by the
word in our spirituality. Therefore, the origin of the word and
of spirituality must come from elsewhere. This was clear even
in Winnicott’s description of “the place where we live,” but he
did not go further in his thinking about the relationship of the

The Word is the Master Key
child and the mother; he only introduced the common culture
of mankind as the source and place where we live.
Ebner asks further and comes to a remarkable conclusion
that the origin of the word is the Word of God. He said:
The “Word” is born from Spirit. Therefore, this is the
proper origin of language, that God’s Spirit speaks to
man — and so man becomes conscious of his “I” — and
so man speaks to God — finding the true “Thou” to his
“I.”71
Following this brief introduction into the thinking of
Ferdinand Ebner about the human and the spirit, another
crucial distinction must be mentioned. Ebner clearly
distinguishes between the personal and the substantial
understanding when he states:
Nothing else can be expressed in the sentences “I am”
and “Thou (you) are” without contradiction, than the
difference between the “personal” being and the
spiritual realities — and the being in the sense of
“substantial” existence, which expression cannot find
any other grammatical form than the one in the “third
person.” Personality and Substance — these are the two
forms of understanding human beings and reality,
between those two there can be no mediation.72
Ferdinand Ebner makes an important distinction between
the personal and dialogical existence on the one hand — which is
expressed in the “I” and the “Thou” relationship and in the
statements of the first and second grammatical person — and
the substantial existence, on the other — which is expressed in
the third grammatical expression, such as “it is.” And, he
explores this difference in its ultimate meaning when he said:
The being for itself of the “I” in his solitude is no
original fact of the spiritual life of man … but the
result of his separation from the “Thou.” This
separation is nothing else than the apostasy from God;
… the first abuse and perverted use of the ‘freedom’ of
the ‘personality’ of existing, which was placed into
man by God.73

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
This concept of the “I-solitude,” i.e., the solitude of the “I”
(Icheinsamkeit) is crucial for Ebner, and it is the consequence
of modern man’s “substantial” thinking. Ebner clearly accepts
the fact that science must use substantial thinking for its
endeavor; he only states that this thinking is different from
personal and dialogical thinking, which alone can open the way
to the other and to God and God’s Word. In another statement
he indicates the historical source of this confusion.
That cave in Plato’s famous Example is the prison of
the “I,” which is confined in itself and does not find
the “Thou.”
At the Chinese Wall of our “I” the imaginations of the
proper Reality of the Spiritual are floating by — as non
existing shadows.74
Here he identifies this I-solitude with Plato’s cave and the
shadow of the “ideas” on the cave wall and indicates that this
substantial thinking is like a Chinese Wall keeping the proper
Reality of the Spirit out of our thinking, delegating it to the
area of shadows and fantasy, just like some materialists refer
today to all spiritual talk as talk about Santa Claus.
Ebner was aware of the necessity of science to talk in the
third person about things that are, and of the danger of making
an ontological statement of this methodological necessity,
when he explained that the word is in diametric opposition of a
scientific understanding of the external world to the personal
and internal world of man:
The “I” solitude of all scientific-mathematical thinking
results in the fact that the word is in diametrical
opposition to mathematical formulas. As is well-
known, the goal of all natural science and all knowledge
about the external world is to become mathematics….
The knowledge about the ‘happenings of the inner
world’ must become word, must prove itself in the
word and it is impossible to express it in a
mathematical formula….
Substance, consequently thought to the end, is the
absolute “I-less” reality, which subjective expression

The Word is the Master Key
would be the madness of the final mathematical
theory.75
In order to demonstrate how new and original this kind of
thinking is, some statements of Descartes are quoted here,
which will indicate the traditional way of thinking in Western
Philosophy. Descartes has stated the following principles of his
thinking, which then became the basis of all scientific
development.
My intention did never go farther than to attempt
reforming my own thoughts and building a foundation
that is totally my own.
The thinking I (cogito) is an immaterial substance
which has nothing corporeal.76
These statements can be seen as a clear way of substantial
thinking in the sense of Ebner, excluding any relation of the “I”
to something spiritual outside of itself, any relation to the
human or Divine ‘Thou,” which relation constitutes the
spirituality of man according to Ebner. From the point of view
of developmental psychology, Descartes misses the crucial
question, how did he learn to think, how does this cogito start
in the human being? The fundament that Descartes laid for all
future philosophy is therefore the basis of modern substantial
and materialistic thinking; does not Descartes himself call his
thinking, (cogito) an immaterial substance, which could best be
described as spiritual materialism?77
The distinction between substantial thinking and dialogical
thinking is crucial, when it comes to the knowledge of God.
God cannot be known, so declares Ebner, in the way of
substantial thinking, in the third person, as someone who is,
who can be described and objectively known. The only way to
know God is to answer Him, to respond to Him, to speak and
pray to Him.
We have to clearly distinguish the way of knowing, of
understanding.
What
is
personal
cannot
be
known
substantially. Furthermore, it is essential to this understanding
that the personal knowing is primary; it constitutes man in his
spirituality through the word spoken between persons. This
idea is expressed in the following statement of Ebner.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
What exists as personality, can never and in no way be
really understood as existing in the sense of a
substance.
If we make the concept of substance the only basis of
our understanding of reality, then the access to
understand what exists in the sense of personality, is
totally closed.
Towards the existence of a personality there can be no
other relation then a “personal” relation, in the final
analysis there can be no other relation than the relation
from the “I” to the “Thou.”
To a substance we can in no way have a personal
relation — and consequently in his relation to a
substance the “I” disappears.78
The personality is expressed through the word, which is
spoken from the “I” to the “Thou.” This dialogue creates
personality, creates a person with an inner being, which can
only be understood in dialogue. In other words, if you speak to
me you can open your inner being to me, and I can know you
and speak back to you. What is crucial in this relationship is
the fact that this dialogue is neither controlled by me, as it is
between you and me, and it is not controlled by you either, as
you need me to speak. And in this dialogue the inner reality of
you and me is established, which is the reality of the person, the
reality of the spirit.
Western traditional thinking, as with Descartes, is based on
the ability to totally control one’s own thoughts, but these
thoughts are only, in the words of Ebner, a dream of the spirit,
because they do not become real in the sense of one person
really establishing herself to the other person through the word.
This way of thinking is the thinking of the I-solitude, which is
an attempt to take the power in one’s own hand, leaving out
the other, the “Thou.” Ebner calls this thinking the “apostasy
from God” and the origin of all sin. Consequently this way of
thinking about God leads to the declamation of the death of
God by Nietzsche.
When Ebner says, “If we make the concept of substance the
only basis of our understanding, then the access to understand

The Word is the Master Key
what exists in the sense of personality, is totally closed,” he
indicates the situation of modern materialistic and atheistic
science, which not only has no access, but furthermore denies
any possibility of access to the spiritual realm, to what makes
man a human being, i.e., the spirituality that is in the word
from the “I” and the “Thou.”
Ferdinand Ebner’s new understanding of spirituality, which
has the inner being of the person established through the word
spoken from the “I” to the “Thou,” seems to correspond with
the Bahá’í concept of the inner, the hidden or the unseen aspect
of the human personality. In the Bahá’í Writings these concepts
are based on the Qur’án where it is said about God: “He is the
first and the last, the Seen and the Hidden.” In the Seven Valleys
Bahá’u’lláh made the following statement which became the
center of an article of this writer: 79
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee thou
shouldst comprehend the four divine states, and that
the nightingale of thine heart on all the branches of the
rosetree of existence, whether visible or concealed,
should cry out: “He is the first and the last, the Seen
and the Hidden….” (Qur’án 57:3)80
Note that in this passage the human condition is described as
true of thyself and those four states are conferred upon thee in
order to comprehend the four divine states as expressed in the
Qur’án. This understanding of the human condition by
Bahá’u’lláh has been expressed later by Ebner, who similarly
made the word the key to spirituality, which is the hidden or
inner state of man.
Another thought comes to mind here. The understanding of
the two ways of being and of perceiving the spirituality of the
world, presented by Ebner as the substantial and the personal
way of knowing, explains an apparent contradiction in the
Bahá’í Writings. In many places the following statement is
affirmed in the Writings:
God in His Essence and in His own Self hath ever been
unseen, inaccessible, and unknowable.81

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
And yet we are not only encouraged, but it is also made a
central obligation, for all human persons to know God and to
worship Him. So it is stated in the Short Obligatory Prayer:
I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me
to know Thee and to worship Thee.82
And in another place it is said that knowing God is the purpose
of the creation of man:
The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will
ever be, to enable him to know his Creator and to
attain His Presence.83
The fact that we cannot know and we have to know can only
be explained if there are different ways of knowing. The
distinction Ebner makes between the substantial knowing,
which combines an understanding of the essence as well as of
the existence of something, and the personal knowing, which is
the knowing mediated by the word from the “I” to the “Thou,”
helps to explain these contradictory statements about the
knowing of God.
And it is clear that we do not know God in the way we know
things in this world. We know God, Who speaks to us and
Who allows us to respond in prayer. Consequently, all
metaphysical speculation about the difference of being as
applied to God and to creation is an illusive problem, because
we cannot know God as we know things. Consequently, our
attribute of existence and being to things can in no way be
attributed to God. In this sense God is not existent, or as the
Buddhist say, He is nothing, not-a-thing. God can be
mentioned as existing only in an emphatic way, as Bahá’í
prayers say, “He is God,” which again is personal and emphatic
speech, not a factual statement.
The conclusion of modern philosophy, that God does not
exist, is therefore, from this perspective, not totally wrong. A
God we could know does not exist in the Bahá’í Writings
either, as He is unknowable in this sense. God Who speaks to
me and you, God to Whom we can speak in prayer, does exist,
and He is present in every word that is spoken from the “I” to
the “Thou.” He is remembered and He is the remembrance in
every truly human word spoken to the other.

The Word is the Master Key
That’s why almost all Bahá’í prayers start with praise and are
spoken directly to God, Who is addressed with “Thou.” Ebner
has expressed this situation in the following words.
Properly man cannot speak of God in the third person.
The one who prays does not speak about God, but to
God.
As long as humans speak “to God,” they still are seeking
“God.”
In speaking the “Word” the “I “is always on the way to
“his Thou” —
Man only has found “God,” whenever “God” speaks to
him
Then man speaks not any more to God, but his “I,” his
self,
becomes
speechless
and
dissolves
in
its
relationship to the eternal Thou, to God.84
Ebner explains why this is so when he wrote:
In the word man has his knowledge of God: that means
in the “Thou-ness” (Duhaftigkeit) of his consciousness,
which makes “I-ness” (Ichhaftigkeit) possible — because
the “I” exists only in the relation to the Thou” — …
especially because the relation to God is something
fundamental and essential to man — which relation
connects man personally with God.
Nothing else than the first and last meaning of the
sentence “Thou art” in the “inwardness” of this
statement, which is the fundament of all Internality
and Inwardness of the human existence — all
inwardness is the inner meaning of the word — in no
other way can man have knowledge of God.85
The Báb has expressed this situation, of not knowing and
knowing God, when He wrote:
I have known Thee by Thy making known unto me that
Thou art unknowable to anyone save Thyself.86

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Interestingly enough, a very similar statement was made by
another dialogical thinker, Franz Rosenzweig (1886-1929),
whom we have not mentioned in this paper, but who has many
thoughts similar to Ebner.
Of God we know nothing.
Yet, This Not-Knowing is Not-Knowing of God,
As such, this is the beginning of our Knowing of
Him. 87
In this section, the work of Ferdinand Ebner was briefly
presented, and some striking similarities between these
thoughts and the Bahá’í Writings were pointed out. It is not
possible to further explore this fact, because it would go
beyond the topic of this paper. On the other hand, after having
seen the emphasis the Bahá’í Writings give the word of man and
the Word of God, it should have become clear why this writer
has made the personal assumption that the statement written
on behalf of the Guardian can be applied to thinkers like
Ferdinand Ebner, who seems to have been led to the teachings
and spirit of the Cause, as was demonstrated above. There are
thinkers and believers, even in other religions, to whom these
words on behalf of the Guardian can be applied.
The world has developed and been enlightened enough
through the unseen Powers of the Almighty, to be led to
the teachings and spirit of the Cause.88
And when this statement is continued:
…it will be our shameful task to go round proclaiming
such principles as we were taught so many years before
and none of which we had lived up to.89
Must we not conclude that not seeing the spirit of the Cause
in these other writers and philosophers, would be a shameful
omission of our understanding of the principles of the Bahá’í
Revelation? In other words, it is quite possible that non-Bahá’ís
have better understood the Writings and principles of
Bahá’u’lláh, even though they did not hear of Him, through the
unseen Powers of the Almighty, as the Guardian said. Must this
thought not fill us with the fear of God, and make us more
dedicated to study the Writings and teach the Cause?

The Word is the Master Key
Concluding, we can state for this section that the following
has been found:
1. There are concepts in modern psychology that can assist
in the understanding of the ontological question about
spirituality.
2. The central position of the heart, as explored in the new
science of neurocardiology in regards to positive
emotion, to remembrance and decision making, allows us
to take the Bahá’í statements about the centrality of the
heart more seriously and understand them better.
3. Modern physics, especially quantum mechanics, allows us
to better understand the possibility of how the word and
the spirit can be the primary aspect of this world.
4. Ferdinand Ebner developed a philosophy of dialogical
and personal thinking that fits, in most parts, into the
Bahá’í Revelation.
5. The differentiation of Ebner between substantial and
personal-dialogical
knowing
can
assist
in
better
understanding the question of Bahá’í Revelation about
the knowing or not knowing of God.
6. The connection between the word and the understanding
of the spiritual is facilitated, if we use Ebner’s
understanding of what constitutes man as a spiritual
being, and it is related to the Biblical understanding of
the “Word in the Beginning” and the Bahá’í Revelation
about the Word as Master key.
Ontology of the Person and the Word
In this section the ontological question will be raised, what
is being, what is existence. The expression “is” — “something is”
or “is not” — is the widest category possible in metaphysics.
Consequently, it is assumed that all that exists can be
subsumed under this concept. The question of the existence,
the being of God, will not be investigated here, even though the
difference between created being, therefore dependent being,
and the being of God as self-subsistent, has moved theology
and philosophical debate since the classical Greek times and has

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
found its presentation in Islamic and Christian philosophy
alike.
What interests us here is the being of this world and how the
Word can be the master key to all worldly existence. Generally,
being is understood substantially, what exists must have
substance, must have something that makes it what it is. In the
Aristotelian and Scholastic philosophy this substance is the
coming together of matter and form. Ferdinand Ebner has
called this approach substantial thinking, which is especially
prevalent since Descartes’ famous “Cogito ergo sum,” in which
the thinking subject becomes the substance on which the
existence of man is based.
As a psychologist, I am inclined to see statements like that
developmentally, i.e., how does the child come to the cogito, to
think, and consequently to his “being,” according to Descartes.
At best, the child is born with the “Anlage,” the potentiality to
think, but not with thinking. And as it can be shown, thinking
develops with speaking, with learning to speak, and much more
so with being spoken to. Quite clearly, without being spoken
to, a child does not start to speak or to think in the human
way. It cannot participate in the verbal culture of his
surroundings, and it takes a lot of teaching and learning, if
this ability needs to be developed later, as the case of Helen
Keller has shown.
To claim that there is another approach to the ontological
question, other than the traditional about substance and
thinking, seems to be audacious; nevertheless, it appears that
the Writings of the Faith do require this new and unusual
reasoning. Bahá’u’lláh did state in the above mentioned word
“The Word is the master key for the whole world.” He did not
talk about ideas, principles such as form and matter,
archetypes, or any other philosophical concepts. He mentions
the Word, and it is clearly the spoken Word. It is the same
Word that is mentioned in the Prolog of the Gospel of John,
1:1-3:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God.

The Word is the Master Key
All things were made by him; and without him was not
any thing made that was made.
It is the “word” of the Qur’án 6:73, expressing the same truth
in the following statement:
It was He who created the heavens and the earth in all
truth.
On the day when He says: ‘Be’ it shall be.
His word is the truth. All sovereignty shall be His on
the day when the trumpet is sounded. He has knowledge
of the seen and the unseen. He alone is wise and all-
knowing.
And it is the Word of Genesis, where this truth about God
creating the world through the spoken Word was first
expressed in the Judeo-Christian tradition,
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
There is undoubtedly, a scriptural tradition in the Jewish,
Christian and Muslim religions of the Word being the origin of
all that is, which is a theological as well as an ontological
statement if it is taken seriously. One could say that the Word
is the substance of all that is and nothing else, and it is the
Word of God that has created and continues to create and
sustain the existence of this world.
Unfortunately, the interpretation of the word logos in
John’s Gospel was made according to the Greek understanding,
and it became everything else than the spoken Word as it is
stated in the Scriptures. This philosophical tradition of the
Neo-Platonic school of thinking has influenced Christian and
Islamic theology until this day, which can be described as an
error, which was explained in a letter written by or on behalf of
the Universal House of Justice:
…the believers must recognize the importance of
intellectual
honesty
and
humility.
In
past
dispensations many errors arose because the believers
in God’s Revelation were overanxious to encompass
the Divine Message within the framework of their
limited understanding, to define doctrines where

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
definition was beyond their power, to explain
mysteries which only the wisdom and experience of a
later age would make comprehensible, to argue that
something was true because it appeared desirable and
necessary.90
In another letter the Universal House of Justice indicates the
process by which this better understanding of the Scriptures of
the past can be achieved over time, hopefully encouraging
studies like the one presented in this paper.
It has become customary in the West to think of
science and religion as occupying two distinct — and
even opposed — areas of human thought and activity.
This dichotomy can be characterized in the pairs of
antitheses: faith and reason; value and fact. It is a
dichotomy which is foreign to Bahá’í thought and
should, we feel, be regarded with suspicion by Bahá’í
scholars in every field. The principle of the harmony of
science and religion means not only that religious
teachings should be studied with the light of reason and
evidence as well as of faith and inspiration, but also
that everything in this creation, all aspects of human
life and knowledge, should be studied in the light of
revelation as well as in that of purely rational
investigation. In other words, a Bahá’í scholar, when
studying a subject, should not lock out of his mind any
aspect of truth that is known to him.91
In our quest to study the underlying ontology to the biblical
and Bahá’í Scriptures, we need to consider the original text of
the Gospel and not its later philosophical interpretation. It is
difficult, therefore, to present the vision of the Scriptures
about the Word; the Logos, in the Prologue to the Gospel of
John, as the meaning of this word was mostly lost or changed
in interpretation and translation.
The Greek original text reads (without diacritical signs):
παντα διαυτου εγενετο, και χωρισ
αυτου εγενετο ουδε εν ο γεγονεν..
This can be translated word for word in the following way:

The Word is the Master Key
All, through Him, was created, and without Him was
created nothing that was created. (John 1:3)
It has to be considered that the Logos, the Word, is of
masculine gender in Greek, and therefore the personalization of
the Word, the Logos, describing the Word as Him, is made
easier than in the English Language.
The text clearly states that all that was made was made by the
Word, which is personalized in the expression “made by Him”
who is the Word. As it is said later in the prologue, the Word
of God is Christ, “who was made flesh and dwelt among us.”
(John 1:14)
Here it is clearly stated that the Christ, the Manifestation of
God, is the Word of God, and through this Word, through
Christ, all was created, i.e., the whole world was created
through the Word, and nothing exists that was not created
through the Word.
And as Bahá’ís, we would say, through Christ and through all
other Manifestations of God, all that is was created, since we
see all Manifestations of God as one soul and the same person,
as was clearly stated by Bahá’u’lláh:
Inasmuch as these Birds of the Celestial Throne [these
Manifestations] are all sent down from the heaven of
the Will of God, and as they all arise to proclaim His
irresistible Faith, they therefore are regarded as one
soul and the same person.92
While
in
this
passage
Bahá’u’lláh
states
that
these
Manifestations are sent down from the heaven of the Will of
God, this is the same as stating they are the Word of God, as
was previously demonstrated.93 This Word of God, out of the
Primal Will of God, is the first creation, the Manifestation of
God in this world, which is created through this Word, which
is all the historical Manifestations as one soul and one person,
in perfect unity.
The human differences and the historical tasks they fulfilled
should never distract us from their unity, which is, as can be
said, a Unity in Diversity, a Divine Oneness in an historical,
human plurality. That this is difficult to understand is an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
understatement, and it is demonstrated in the two thousand
year old speculation about the Trinity in Christian theology
and its absolute rejection in Islamic thinking. It was
impossible to be understood in the past, as Bahá’u’lláh has
stated in a prayer.
The contemplation of the highest minds that have
recognized Thy unity failed to attain unto the
comprehension of the One Thou hast created through
the word of Thy commandment, how much more must
it be powerless to soar into the atmosphere of the
knowledge of Thine own Being.94
Bahá’u’lláh, in this prayer, affirms that even the highest
human minds failed to comprehend the Manifestations (the
One Thou hast created through the word), which are created
through a Word of God. To conclude this line of thinking it
needs to be stated that it is nearly impossible to understand the
Manifestation through the human mind, or through human
speculation about the essence of God, His Unity, His Trinity
or Plurality etc.
Only the Manifestations Themselves can give us an
understanding of these Divine Creations, these unique and
united Beings, who are as one in their historical and multiple
expressions, who are the creation of God and the origin of all
creation of the world of being, the origin of all there is, from
the last particle or element of the atom to the highest
development of nature in the human being.
This again projects a different ontological picture of this
world than the traditional one, which is based on the concept
of being and has historically created a number of problems in
regard to the concept of the world as created by God. The
elimination of God and of creation in the last centuries was
only logical and made it easier to cling to this concept of
substantial thinking, as Ebner would say, but does ignore the
reality of the personal and dialogical aspect of the human being
and of the whole world of being.
The traditional ontological picture has no place for the
existence of the spirit, and with this point of view, it denies or
reduces spirit to substance or matter and then makes the

The Word is the Master Key
human life meaningless, and reduces the word of man to simply
a means of communication of facts. The inner being of man,
the internality of world, is ignored, and the very thinking has
renounced itself and performed this magic trick to eliminate
itself at the point where it created the greatest successes of its
ability in modern science and technology. The same has been
expressed by a reviewer of a book on quantum mechanics:
Physics of Consciousness, The Quantum Mind and the
Meaning of Life by Evan Harris Walker:95
Although philosophically laughable, the notion that the
deepest aspects of physical reality can be described
without ever speaking about the entity doing the
description has dominated science and acted as a
straitjacket that confined scientific thought for far
too long. Instead, the book shows that reality cannot
be understood without consciousness, or indeed, that
reality and consciousness are ultimately the same thing.
Ferdinand Ebner has clearly connected the consciousness
with the word, when he said:
What is a thought? Reflected being; not consciousness
as such, but being in consciousness, being, in the
reflection of consciousness, in other words, conscious
being. But is not the ‘word’ the inner and spiritual
condition of the ‘cogito’ (‘I think’) in general?96
Human consciousness, the human mind, has declared itself
in these representatives of materialistic science as non-existing
or as being only a superstructure to be reduced to matter,
nothing more than a thing among other things of this world
and the sociological consequences of this worldview has
devastated the last century.
If the Word is the beginning and the cause of the world, if it
is the master key for the whole world, what does that really
mean? What worldview would this ontological principle create?
We are accustomed to seeing the world through our senses,
seeing the materiality of all beings, and we generally have this
kind of approach to the world. The spiritual is usually ignored
or neglected. Often it is seen as if it was something material.
Think about a simple thing that is not material, for example,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
your nationality. There is no thing in your body that would
give you citizenship, it is a piece of paper, it might be an
accident of your birth to your parents, or the resolution of a
government contract that makes you a citizen. It is a spiritual
quality that rests in the agreement of the society in which you
live. And yet, it can crucially influence your life.
And this is only a very superficial spiritual quality. What
about concepts of love, friendship, understanding between
people, etc.; what about the spiritual ties that bind people
together; what about the many groups and communities to
which we belong? All of this is spiritual, but usually regarded as
something sensual or material. We are used to seeing the
spiritual properties as material ones and do not need to make
this distinction most of the time.
In the proposed new worldview we need to categorically
change our thinking and give spiritual reality the primate over
all material and sensual phenomena of this world. This view
requires a total new understanding of the world, as the book of
Revelation says, of a “new heaven and a new earth.” It is not
necessary to prove that this was the message of all previous
religions as well. Nevertheless, it is no longer a thought that is
even considered today.
Even the material life of the senses is not more important
than the spiritual truth of our existence, as Bahá’u’lláh has
expressed in the above quoted prayer when He said:
Mine eyes are cheered, O my God, when I contemplate
the tribulations that descend upon me from the heaven
of Thy decree, and which have encompassed me on
every side according to what Thy pen hath irrevocably
established. I swear by Thy Self! Whatsoever is of Thee
is well pleasing unto me, though it involve the
bitterness of mine own death.97
Nothing else than a wholly different view of this world could
have made Bahá’u’lláh say these astonishing words. Whatever is
of God, whatever is spiritual, makes His eyes cheered, and He
calls it pleasing even if it means death of the material body. As
we have seen before, this worldview was given to the followers
of Bahá’u’lláh in His word when He said:

The Word is the Master Key
Thou art He Who, through a word of Thy mouth, hath
so enravished the hearts of Thy chosen ones that they
have, in their love for Thee, detached themselves from
all except Thyself, and laid down their lives and
sacrificed their souls in Thy path, and borne, for Thy
sake, what none of Thy creatures hath borne.98
It is again the Word of the Manifestation, the Word of
God, that enravishes the heart of the believers; in other words,
they love God, Who is identified with the world of the spirit,
so they sacrifice their material life in this new view. So every
martyr becomes a witness to this new reality, this new spiritual
worldview.
The change of this worldview in the spirit of man who has
recognized this new vision cannot be easily anticipated in its
universality. Bahá’u’lláh gives us a glimpse what it would mean
to take the spiritual reality of this world seriously and to be
truly detached from the material world.
Say: He is not to be numbered with the people of Bahá
who followeth his mundane desires, or fixeth his heart
on things of the earth. He is My true follower who, if
he come to a valley of pure gold, will pass straight
through it aloof as a cloud, and will neither turn back,
nor pause. Such a man is, assuredly, of Me. From his
garment the Concourse on high can inhale the fragrance
of sanctity….
And if he met the fairest and most comely of women,
he would not feel his heart seduced by the least shadow
of desire for her beauty. Such an one, indeed, is the
creation of spotless chastity. Thus instructeth you the
Pen of the Ancient of Days, as bidden by your Lord,
the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.99
Christ already has made a similar statement (Matthew 5:27-28),
and we see the progression in the formulation.
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time,
Thou shalt not commit adultery: But I say unto you,
That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her
hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Jesus goes from the Mosaic law “thou shalt not” to the
inner, spiritual aspect of man, to his heart. Bahá’u’lláh goes
even farther, describing a spiritual attitude, which is not even
to be tempted to break the law.
Let’s be honest; after 2,000 years of Christianity, how many
people come even close to this change of heart? And how many
Christians, Muslims and Bahá’ís can state fully that they have
not only understood this sentence, that they follow the moral
rule of chastity implied in this statement, but that their heart
and their thinking has fully achieved this pinnacle of
detachment; and how many of them would be so detached and
have no difficulty to “not feel his heart seduced by the least
shadow of desire for her beauty?”
There are in the Bahá’í Faith some unique souls who have
come close to this state of a true follower according to
Bahá’u’lláh: it is the Master and Example, Bahá’u’lláh’s son
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and, in a somewhat lesser degree among others,
several women whose exemplarity for the Faith was described by
Bahíyyih Nakhjavání.100
From this consideration the admonition of the Guardian
needs to be understood, that the high moral life and example of
the faithful is the precondition to the final victory of the Faith,
and true chastity and detachment from all worldly goods are
the criteria of this belief. Shoghi Effendi clearly states that
moral rectitude is a prerequisite of success for all activities of
Bahá’ís and describes these requirements in many places with
the following words:
These requirements are none other than a high sense of
moral rectitude in their social and administrative
activities, absolute chastity in their individual lives,
and complete freedom from prejudice in their dealings
with peoples of a different race, class, creed, or
color.101
It is clear that Bahá’u’lláh speaks of a state of the human
heart and mind that will take time to be fully achieved,
especially when it comes to the most powerful drives in human
nature, i.e., gold and sex. On the other hand, Bahá’u’lláh has
promised that this time will come, and He has given us the

The Word is the Master Key
power to reach this state through His Word. It is the Word of
God alone that can achieve such a change in the world, that can
create this New World Order through a change of heart.
In the following section we will demonstrate that this new
worldview is expressed in all the principles of the Bahá’í Faith,
and some of these principles will be explained in this light.
Bahá’í Principles and the Word
In the following section some of the Bahá’í principles will be
presented in this Unity of Revelation.
Having made the ontological change from idea and
substance to the word as the origin and essence of being, we
will here in this section try to explore Bahá’í principles and
understand them on the basis of this new ontological principle
of the word. This could shed some new light on these principles,
and if it does, it will verify the assumption under which these
principles are understood.
The final criteria of this process are the Bahá’í Writings, and
if the new understanding of these principles are better suited to
understand the Writings, then the circle is closed and the thesis
of this investigation could be regarded as being proven, at least
in the sense that they give more meaning to the Revelation and
harmonize with them. Thus the harmony between religion and
science could be established as well.
There are several principles that have been mentioned before,
such as progressive revelation, harmony between science and
religion, and the importance and meaning of remembrance of
the Word.
The principle of Consultation
What seems to be another application of the importance of
the Word is to be found in the principle of consultation. The
importance of this principle is accentuated by Bahá’u’lláh:
The heaven of divine wisdom is illumined with the two
luminaries of consultation and compassion. Take ye
counsel
together
in
all
matters,
inasmuch
as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
consultation is the lamp of guidance which leadeth the
way, and is the bestower of understanding.102
And is further explained in the commentary to the Most Holy
Book:
Bahá’u’lláh has established consultation as one of the
fundamental principles of His Faith and has exhorted
the believers to “take counsel together in all matters.”
He describes consultation as “the lamp of guidance
which leadeth the way” and as “the bestower of
understanding.” Shoghi Effendi states that the
“principle of consultation … constitutes one of the
basic laws” of the Bahá’í Administrative Order.103
In order to understand why this principle of consultation is
congenial to the ontology of the Word as presented in this
paper, we need to briefly describe what happens in
consultation. First, the facts need to be researched and
presented to the administrative or any other group dedicated
to consult about them. This first section or preparation will
certainly be executed in a factual and substantial manner, so
consultation
does
include
substantial
thinking
in
its
preparation.
The proper consulting process starts with every member of
the group presenting his personal opinion and leaving this
opinion open to all in the group. This is real group dialogue, as
all of the members are not only allowed to state their opinion,
but they are encouraged and have the duty to do so. In this
dialogue then truth is revealed and accepted by the whole
group.
On the assumption that the word is the ontological basis of
being, we must also conclude that it is the ontological basis of
truth.
That’s
where
consultation
gets
its
ontological
grounding, in the sentence of Bahá’u’lláh where He stated;
The Word of God … is an ocean inexhaustible in riches,
comprehending all things. Every thing which can be
perceived is but an emanation therefrom.104
Consequently, when attempting to find the truth we have to
rely on the Word of God, but we also have to make the spiritual

The Word is the Master Key
leap into the words of all those that are present, and try to find
the truth in the here and now. As much as the members are
imbued with the Word of God and the Love of God, this will
result in an ontological effort towards the truth of the
situation at hand.
This is a dimension of truth and consultation that has not
been much explored, and it needs further consideration. It is
mentioned here as one of the conclusions of our endeavor to
find the truth of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh Who has brought
us the Word of God in the Ocean of His Most Great
Announcement.105
Conclusion: Revelation of Unity and Unity of
Revelation
There are two considerations that are mutually inclusive and
describe the Bahá’í Revelation as a new and comprehensive
vision of this world: the Bahá’í Faith is (1) Revelation of Unity
and (2) Unity of Revelation. The Bahá’í Faith can be described
in both ways, which are intertwined and mutually supportive.
In other words, one is the cause of the other, one explains the
other, and one could not truly exist without the other.
This statement needs some explanation. The first statement
is clear and a common topic of teaching the Faith. The Unity of
God, the Unity of the world of mankind, and the Unity of all
religions is rightfully presented as the core principle of the
Faith.
The second statement is not as obvious and is experienced
only through deepening in the Writings and through
meditation. It is the recognition that the Bahá’í Revelation, in
its whole and in all its parts, is of a surprising and unexpected
unity. This Unity of the Revelation is the most convincing
element and is best expressed in the way Bahá’u’lláh has revealed
His Verses.
They were not compiled and slowly elaborated; they were
dictated and written as one, probably with a certain style and
with the signature of perfect unity from one period to the
other, from one dictation to the other. Bahá’u’lláh frequently

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
compares His Revelation with an Ocean, which is a good
example of this unity in diversity, of abundance and fullness.
Much is said about this style of Revelation, but the most
important aspect of this unity is not only its presentation, but
also its content and the development of this unique Temple of
God’s Word. Bahá’u’lláh said:
Thus have We built the Temple with the hands of power
and might, could ye but know it. This is the Temple
promised unto you in the Book. Draw ye nigh unto it.
This is that which profiteth you, could ye but
comprehend it.106
In the Persian Hidden Word 61 He describes His Revelation:
“A dewdrop out of the fathomless ocean of My mercy I have
shed upon the peoples of the world.” This unity is really a
mystical concept, and it is described in the Seven Valleys in
two beautiful pictures, short and in-depth, where Bahá’u’lláh
said in the Valley of Knowledge:
In the ocean he findeth a drop, in a drop he beholdeth
the secrets of the sea.
Split the atom’s heart, and lo! Within it thou wilt find
a sun.107
Both the revelation of unity and the unity of this revelation
are pervading this world, and we can find vestiges of them
everywhere. The unity of this world is increasing in many ways;
politically, economically, in communication and cooperation.
The unity of this revelation is not only present in the Holy
Writings of the Faith but also in the thinking and
philosophizing throughout this world, and it goes back into a
better understanding of previous Revelations, explaining how
all Revelations are presenting a unity that can be understood
better as the Revelation of God progresses throughout time.
This unity also emerges everywhere in this world, according
to the Guardian, demonstrating
such simultaneous processes of rise and of fall, of
integration and of disintegration, of order and chaos,

The Word is the Master Key
with their continuous and reciprocal reactions on each
other.108
This paper attempted, admittedly in a very tentative and
subjective fashion, to follow the development of integration,
of rise and of order and many structures, visions and thoughts
have been found in this process to prove the verse of
Bahá’u’lláh: “The Word is the Master Key for the Whole
World.”
Therefore,
the
new
world
order
is
primarily
and
fundamentally a spiritual order. That this spirituality is the
‘actual and real’ reality of this world is only understandable in
the context of the ontological meaning of the Word.109
Consequently, it could be said, if the Word was in the
beginning, then the Word and the Spirit was in the beginning,
and the spiritual reality is the quintessential reality of being.
Ferdinand Ebner understood this truth, when he said “Man
thinks, because he has the word.” Reason (or intellect, we could
say) is equally related to the word, so Ebner says, reason “is
essentially formed from the word and through the word and
given to humanity as a ‘sense for the word.’” And further:
The word is the primary spiritual reality, it is the
‘establishment’ of spiritual being — it is the
establishment ‘of the relation between the “I” and the
“Thou” — that is the establishment of being itself.110
Long before that, Bahá’u’lláh has clearly and fundamentally
said the same, and much more:
It is clear and evident, therefore, that the first bestowal
of God is the Word, and its discoverer and recipient is
the power of understanding. This Word is the
foremost instructor in the school of existence and the
revealer of Him Who is the Almighty.111
Bahá’u’lláh even gives us a clear understanding of how the
Word created man. In a new interpretation of the story of
Genesis, of the creation of man, He combines again in this
sentence the Islamic idea of the Primal Will of God with the
Biblical understanding of the Word in the Beginning:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The entire creation hath been called into being through
the Will of God, magnified be His glory, and peerless
Adam hath been fashioned through the agency of His
all-compelling Word, a Word which is the source, the
wellspring, the repository, and the dawning-place of
the intellect. From it all creation hath proceeded, and it
is the channel of God’s primal grace.112
In interpreting the Bible, Bahá’u’lláh introduces a new
thought, stating that the Biblical Adam became the first human
being and was a Manifestation of God113, by being created
through the Word and given the word which made him a ‘living
soul’ as Genesis describes:
And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the
ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of
life; and man became a living soul.114
To conclude this essay, it can be understood that the
meaning of the Word of God, and consequently of all words
spoken by man in remembrance of God, is “the source, the
wellspring, the repository, and the dawning-place of the
intellect,” of the human capacity of ‘having the word’ and
being an intellectual and reasonable being. It is further the
cause of all creation, as it is said about the Word that “from it
all creation hath proceeded, and it is the channel of God’s
primal grace.”
The Word of God was and always is the unifying cause of
this multiple word, and it is creating the human intellect and
his soul, which is the channel of God speaking to man, of the
ability of man speaking to man115 and answering God in speech,
in prayer. Additionally, it is the source of all understanding of
this world in science and reason and of knowing God in love
and praise.

NOTES
1 Special thanks needs to be expressed to Gwyn Magaditsch, for her
corrections and suggestions.
2 Kluge has made similar connections with the philosophies of Heidegger,
Gabriel Marcel, Teilhard De Chardin, and Whitehead in several of his
papers published in “Lights of ‘Irfán” volume 4, 2003: The Aristotelian

The Word is the Master Key

Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings, vol. 5, 2004: Process Philosophy and
the Bahá’í Writings, An Initial Exploration, vol. 6, 2005: Bahá’í
Ontology, An Initial Reconnaissance, vol. 7, 2006: Further Exploration in
Bahá’í Ontology. Another seminal work is The Call into Being: An
Introduction
to
a
Bahá’í
Existentialism,
available
by
request:
iankluge@netbistro.com
This writer has attempted similar comparisons in his papers published.
in the “Lights of ‘Irfán” Wolfgang Klebel: book 5, 2004: Unity and
Progress Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the Basic Concepts
of Teilhard de Chardin; Book 6, 2005: True to Thyself: the Mystical
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s System of Integral Psychology;
Book 7, 2006 Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology.
3 Terry Culhane, I Beheld a Maiden, The Bahá’í Faith and the Life of the
Spirit; Kalimat Press, Los Angeles, 2001, especially in his last chapter,
(pp. 111-138) Redeeming Modernity: Bahá’u’lláh and the Integral
Philosophy of Ken Wilber.
4 Wolfgang Klebel, in “Lights of ‘Irfán,” book 7, 2006, Law˙-i-Hikmat,
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom. pages where the concept of “Spiritual
Materialism” is closer described.
5 Ken Wilber; Sex, Ecology, Spirituality, The Spirit of Evolution,
Shambhala, Boston & London, 2000, “The Unpacking of God,” p. 550.
6 Martin Buber and Franz Rosenzweig are from Jewish background and
present similar ideas.
7 The quotes of Ferdinand Ebner are, if not otherwise noted, taken from
the Book of Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld Ursprüngliche
Erfahrung und personales Sein (Original Experience and Personal
Existence) Böhlau Verlag, Wien, Köln, Weimar, 1997, quoted
henceforth as Wucherer/Ebner and Page. The quote here is
Wucherer/Ebner, p. 31.
8 Ebner, Ferdinand, Schriften, (Writings) 3 Volumes, published by F. Seyer,
Munic, 1963-1965. Only at the closure of this paper, this writer has
been able to get access to a small book with selected essays of
Ferdinand Ebner: Das Wunder des Wortes (the miracle of the word),
Stiasney Verlag, Munic 1965
9 The authors mentioned here are Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld
(see reference 15) and in “Zur neuern Geschichte des integralen
Gegensatzes von Einheit und Vielheit” (About the new history of the
integral Opposition of Unity and Plurality) in and Bernhard Casper,
Das dialogische Denken. Eine Untersuchung der religionsphilosophischen
Bedeutung Franz Rosenzweigs, Ferdinand Ebners und Martin Bubers (The
dialogical thinking, an investigation of the meaning of Franz
Rosenzweig, Ferdinand Ebner and Martin Buber in the study of a
philosophy of religion), Freiburg, Germany, 1967

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

10 It is interesting to note that the usage of the word ‘Logos’ in English is
today restricted to the idealized concept and the original meaning of
‘word’ is not even mentioned in Webster’s Third New International
Dictionary, where only three meanings are reported: 1. reason, 2.
principle of the universe and 3. the creative thought (sic!) and will of
God, according to John 1. The original meaning of ‘word’ is only
mentioned in the etymological explanation of the origin of this word,
but not in the present definition of this word as used in today’s
English. This is a good example of philosophical preconception that is
pervasive but usually not even conscious to the writer.
11 Compare this statement of Bahá’u’lláh, (Gleanings, p. 141: LXXIV)
“Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is endowed with
such potency as can instill new life into every human frame, if ye be of
them that comprehend this truth.” Here and in many similar statements
about the Word of God reference is clearly made to an actually spoken
word and not to the mind, reason or ideas of God.
12 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 173
13 In short, the thought could be ventured that the Judeo-Christian
monotheism in a Platonic understanding of God as the origin of all
Emanations separated the spiritual realm of God from the now
secularized and demystified world, and therefore became the condition
of the possibility of the development of modern sciences. Before, the
pagan world itself was populated by spirits and gods, preventing this
development.
14 Bahá’u’lláh explains that the Maid of Heaven is revealed to speak the
Words of God: “I have summoned the Maids of Heaven to emerge from
behind the veil of concealment, and have clothed them with these words
of Mine — words of consummate power and wisdom.” (GWB 327)
15 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, p. 17
16 The differences of the description indicate that what is spoken to the
inner ear cannot be translated straightforward to the outer ear, a fact
that would be interesting to explore in another study. For example,
Shoghi Effendi quotes Bahá’u’lláh describing the same event: He
dreamed His dream and heard, “on every side,” “exalted words,” and His
“tongue recited” words that “no man could bear to hear.” (CF 101)
17 Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p. 61
18 Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p. 126
19 Wolfgang Klebel, Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom,
towards a progressive Bahá’í Theology, presented at the ‘Irfán
Colloquium at Bosch, May 2005, to be printed in the Lights of ‘Irfán
20 Charles Darwin, The Descent of Man, 1871, last paragraph:
“But we are not here concerned with hopes or fears, only with the truth
as far as our reason permits us to discover it; and I have given the
evidence to the best of my ability. We must, however, acknowledge, as
it seems to me, that man with all his noble qualities, with sympathy

The Word is the Master Key

which feels for the most debased, with benevolence extends not only to
other men but to the humblest living creature, with his god-like
intellect which has penetrated into the movements and constitution of
the solar system — with all these exalted powers — Man still bears in his
bodily frame the indelible stamp of his lowly origin.”
21 Teilhard de Chardin, Christianity and Evolution,, Harcourt Brace &
Company, New York, 1969, p. 105
22 Teilhard de Cardin, The Phenomenon of Man, Harper & Row, NY, 1975
23 To call the scientific worldview an abstraction follows strictly the
definition of the word abstraction in Webster’s Third New Inter-
national Dictionary, where it is defined as “the act or process of leaving
out one or more qualities of a complex object so as to attend to others.”
Any worldview that not only abstracts of these qualities of being
methodologically, but denies their existence must be called scientistic,
rather than scientific, and is based on improvable assumption.
24 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 204
25 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 164: “Among these ‘veils of glory’ are the
divines and doctors living in the days of the Manifestation of God, who,
because of their want of discernment and their love and eagerness for
leadership, have failed to submit to the Cause of God, nay, have even
refused to incline their ears unto the divine Melody. “They have thrust
their fingers into their ears.” [Qur’án 2:19.]
26 Ian Kluge, Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance, 2004, p. 29
27 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 238
28 Published in “Lights of ‘Irfán,” book 5.
29 David H. Lane: The Phenomenon of Teilhard, Prophet for a New Age,
Mercer, University Press, Macon Georgia. 1996
30 “How I believe,” in Christianity and Evolution, Hartcourt, Brace &
Company, San Diego, 1996, pp. 107-108
31 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu´l-Bahá, p. 119
32 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 160
33 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 160
34 Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 163
35 Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p. 188
36 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Indian Subcontinent, p. 56
37 Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 72
38 See above page 3-4; Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 150
39 D. W. Winnicott, Playing and Reality, Basic Books, Inc, New York, 1971
40 Robert Langs, The Bipersonal Field, Jason Aronson, Inc. New York 1976
Wolfgang
Klebel;
Transference and Culture, Towards a New
Understanding of this Concept of Depth-Psychology; A Dissertation
Presented to the Faculty of the Graduate School of Psychology, Fuller

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

Theological Seminary; Pasadena California, 1976; especially the Chapter
Corollary on Therapy and Religion, Pages 205-224
42 D. W. Winnicott: ibid., especially in ch. 7, “The Location of Cultural
Experience,” pp. 95-103, and ch. 8, “The Place where we Live,” pp. 104-110
43 Darwin himself clearly distinguished between the material development
of “men’s bones” and man’s spiritual abilities. See footnote 31
44 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 145
45 ‘Abdu´l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 375
46 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 42
47 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 69
48 Robert Langs, The Bipersonal Field (and throughout his other books);
Jason Aronson, Inc, New York.
49 This writer has applied the approach of Robert Langs in therapy and was
teaching this approach to interns. This personal experience has
certainly reinforced what was learned from books and the few seminars
of Langs he could attend.
50 Communicative Psychoanalytic Theory of Human Development — Part
One: Introduction, Methodology and Theorems By V. A. Bonac
(Reprinted from IJCPP, 1994, Vol. 9, No.4)
51 Robert Langs, The Listening Process, Jason Aronson, New York, London
1978 page 4, 59 and passim in this and most of his other books about
therapy, where he refers this insight to W. Bion, an English
Psychoanalyst.
52 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 264
53 It may be noted here as an aside that this writer has the same
background in the Vienna school of integral philosophy and Freudian
psychoanalysis.
54 Rollin McCraty, HeartMath Research Center, Science of the Heart, Part
I, Institute of HeartMath. http://www.heartmath.org, Institute of
HeartMath 14700 West Park Avenue, Bolder Creek, California 95006
especially the sections “The Electricity of Touch: Detection and
Measurement of Cardiac Energy Exchange between People” p. 24 and
“The
role
of
Physiological
Coherence
in
the
Detection
and
Measurement of Cardiac Energy Exchange between People” pp. 24-25.
55 Alastair I.M. Rae, Quantum Mechanics, 4th Edition, Taylor & Francis,
New York, London, 2002, P. 288
56 Evan Harris Walker, Ph.D.; The physics of consciousness, Quantum
Minds and the Meaning of Life; Basic Books, Perseus Books, NY, 2000
57 Ibid., p. 329
58 Ibid., p. 330
59 Ibid., p. 332
60 Ibid., p. 335

The Word is the Master Key

61 Ibid., p. 336
62 Ibid., p. 337
63 Ibid., p. 329
64 Wucherer/Ebner, p. 31
65 Ferdinand Ebner, a teacher, lived in Austria 1882-1931, and was marked
by his experiences in the ditches of World I and is one of the most
outstanding representatives of the dialogical thinking.
66 Wucherer/Ebner 31 (see footnote 15). It has to be noted here again, that
all the translations of Ebner’s texts are translated by this writer, since
no other translation is available.
67 The brief explanation follows the introductory work to Ferdinand
Ebner’s thinking by Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld: Personales
Sein und Word, Einführung in den Grundgedanken Ferdinand Ebners
(Personal Being and Word, Introduction into the basic principle of the
thinking of Ferdinand Ebner); Böhlau, Vienna, Graz 1985; pp. 23-32.
This principle of Ebner’s thinking was previously developed by this
writer in the paper Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom,
Towards a Progressive Bahá’í Theology, presented at the ‘Irfán
Colloquia in Bosch, 2005, and to be published in the upcoming “Lights
of ‘Irfán.”
68 Wucherer/Ebner, p. 57
69 Ibid., p. 78
70 Ibid., p. 31
71 Ibid., p. 79. According to Ebner, God is the true “Thou” to the human
“I.” In similar fashion Bahá’u’lláh uses the concept of the True One in
relation to the creatures, in the Seven Valleys (p. 25): “The journeys in
the pathway of love are reckoned as four: From the creatures to the True
One; from the True One to the creatures; from the creatures to the
creatures; from the True One to the True One.”
72 Ibid., p. 223
73 Ibid., p. 87
74 Ibid., p. 86
75 Ibid., p. 223
76 “réformer mes propres pensées et bâtir dans un fonds qui est tout à
moi” quoted and translated from Herman Glockner, Die Europäische
Philosophie von den Anfängen bis zur Gegenwart (the European
philosophy from its beginning to the present) p, 412. Herman Glockner
noted further that the “pure objectivity of Descartes philosophy
satisfies the pre-Christian ideal of classical Platonism.”
77 This concept of spiritual materialism was coined by Johannes Toegel,
Eine Theologie des Zeitgeistes, Darstellung und Kritik am Beispiel der
Transcententalen Psychology (A theology of the spirit of the time, a
presentation and critique using the example of transcendental

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

psychology), Dissertation (#28,684) University of Vienna, 1991, p. 170,
and is described by this writer in his paper presented in Bosch,
California, ‘Irfán Colloquium, in the year 2005 under the title: “Law˙-i-
Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom, Towards a Progressive Bahá’í
Theology,” which will be printed in Lights of ‘Irfán, Book Seven.
78 Wucherer/Ebner, p. 233
79 Wolfgang A. Klebel, True of Thyself, The Mystical Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s system of integral philosophy, Lights of
‘Irfán, Bahá’í National Center 1233 Central Street, Evanston IL 60201,
book six, pp. 87-120
80 Bahá’u’lláh, SVFV p. 27. While we here are mostly interested in the
inwardness and outwardness of the human condition, i.e., the body and
the spirit, in the section about the Word by Bahá’u’lláh the other
aspect, the first and last, has to do with the historicity of the human
condition in the ontological cycle as pointed out by Nader Saiedi,
Logos and Civilization, University Press of Maryland, 2000, page 65 and
passim, while not referring to this passage but quoting many others.
81 Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 118
82 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p. 313
83 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXIX., p. 70
84 Wucherer/Ebner, p. 267
85 Ibid., p. 265
86 Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p. 196
87 Franz Rosenzweig, quoted in the book of Bernhard Casper, p. 92 note 17
88 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Indian Subcontinent, p. 56
89 Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Indian Subcontinent, p. 56
90 Wellspring of Guidance: Messages 1963-1968, pp. 87-88
91 The Universal House of Justice, Messages 1963 to 1986, pp. 388-389
92 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 152
93 The Kitáb-i-ˆqán was addressed to a believer in Mu˙ammad,
consequently in this book Bahá’u’lláh uses the Islamic expression the
Will of God, which is equivalent to the Word of God as demonstrated
above through this statement of Bahá’u’lláh from the same book, the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán p 98: “inasmuch as by a word of His command all that
are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is
the Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into
the realm of being, the world of the visible.”
94 Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 193
95 ISBN: 0738204366, Pub. Date: January 2001
96 Wucherer/Ebner, p. 205
97 Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 192
98 Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 163

The Word is the Master Key

99 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 118
100 Response; George Ronald, Oxford, 1981
101 Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 22
102 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 168
103 The Universal House of Justice, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Note #52 in re
paragraph #30, p. 190
104 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 173
105 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 25
106 Bahá’u’lláh, The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 141
107 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, p. 12
108 Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 72
109 Bahá’u’lláh, (Gleanings, XCVI, p. 196) calls this “A new life is, in this age,
stirring within all the peoples of the earth; and yet none hath discovered
its cause or perceived its motive.”
110 All these quotes can be found in Wucherer/Ebner, p. 208
111 Bahá’u’lláh, The Tabernacle of Unity, #1.2, p. 3
112 Ibid., #2.48, p. 47
113 This fact is well established in the Writings based on the verse from the
Qur’án: “Thus hath Mu˙ammad, the Point of the Qur’án, revealed: ‘I
am all the Prophets.’ Likewise, He saith: ‘I am the first Adam, Noah,
Moses, and Jesus.’ (KI 152) This issue raises some questions that
cannot be dealt with in this paper. The Adamic Cycle of Manifestations
started with Adam and ended with Bahá’u’lláh, who speaks about
Manifestations before Adam as well, but they are unknown to us. One
explanation to be mentioned in this context could be the fact that the
book of Genesis, to be understood by their original readers, had to
condense and compress the Adamic and Pre-Adamic history into one
story of the beginning of the world, which story needs to be unfolded
in the future.
114 Genesis 2:7
115 This fact of man speaking to man was expounded by Martin Buber,
another personal-dialogical thinker in his book Between Man and Man,
Routledge Classics, London and New York, 2002. Martin Buber is the
only thinker of this group translated at least partially into English.

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
An Ontological Rapprochement *
Ian Kluge
Buddhism is one of the revelations recognised by the Bahá’í
Faith as being divine in origin and, therefore, part of
humankind’s heritage of guidance from God. This religion,
which has approximately 379 million followers 1 is now making
significant inroads into North America and Europe where
Buddhist Centres are springing up in record numbers.
Especially because of the charismatic leader of Tibetan
Prasangika Buddhism, the Dalai Lama, Buddhism has achieved
global prominence both for its spiritual wisdom as well as for
its part in the struggle for an independent Tibet. Thus, for
Bahá’ís there are four reasons to seek a deeper knowledge of
Buddhism. In the first place, it is one of the former divine
revelations and therefore, inherently interesting, and second, it
is one of the ‘religions of our neighbours’ whom we seek to
understand better. Third, a study of Buddhism also allows us
to better understand Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching that all religions are
essentially one. (PUP 175) Moreover, if we wish to engage in
intelligent dialogue with them, we must have a solid
understanding of their beliefs and how they relate to our own.
We shall begin our study of Buddhism and the Bahá’í
Writings at the ontological level because that is the most
fundamental level at which it is possible to study anything.
Ontology, which is a branch of metaphysics, 2 concerns itself
with the subject of being and what it means ‘to be,’ and the
way in which things are. For example, it is readily apparent that
a physical object such as a hockey puck, an idea like Einstein’s
relativity theory and attribute of redness are three different

* Dedicated to the memory of Rad Gajic (1948 — 2006).

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
kinds of realities, have different ways of existing and are
related to the world in different ways. We do not treat them
alike because as a result of experience though often
unconsciously, we perform an ontological analysis that says
although we can throw another physical object such as a ball or
a chair at the goalie, we cannot throw Einstein’s theory or
redness at him. This is an example of practical, every-day,
conventional ontology. At a deeper level, ontology concerns
itself with questions such as ‘What is being?’ or “Why is there
something rather than nothing?’ or ‘What do we mean when we
talk about a ‘thing’?’
Abstruse as questions like these might appear, they are dealt
with directly or indirectly by all philosophical systems,
religions and even by science. For example, if we ask, ‘What is a
thing — in this case a flower?’ we will get various, ontologically
based answers. A scientist will answer that it is ultimately a
self-organising aggregation of atoms whose materials inter-act
among themselves in certain ways and it is a product of
evolution, a Madhyamaka Buddhist will say that it is a
conventionally existing aggregate produced be dependent
origination and ultimately empty, whereas a Bahá’í, a Christian
and a Muslim might reply that ultimately it is a creation of
God. In all cases we have fundamentally different ontologies in
regards to the kind of things that exist — physical beings and a
God — and their ways of acting. In other words, both answers
contain an implicit ontology.
The ontology explicitly or implicitly present in every idea-
system functions like a constitution: it is the philosophical
frame of reference in which ideas take on meaning and against
which they must not offend. It determines whether or not an
idea is viable in its particular context. If an idea offends
against its ontological frame of reference, then problems of
logical consistency arise and create all kinds of problems in the
idea-system. For example, if we introduce the concept of an
actively participating God into the reigning physicalist and
positivist ontology of science, then we could start formulating
answers to scientific questions in terms of God’s will —
something that is hardly repeatable, measurable, predictable
and testable as required by science. The introduction of a
participant God into the ontology of science would create all

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
kinds
of
consistency
problems
because
that
concept
contradicts the goal of explanation strictly by physically
measurable means. The ontological constitution of science
does not allow such a concept.
Like science, every religion has an ontology which is the basis
of its identity and, of course, the basis for its differences from
other religions. From this it also follows that if we seriously
intend to study how two religions are alike, then we must
compare their respective ontologies. Without that, no
philosophical understanding of a religion is possible.
However, before we plunge into our exploration, we must
draw attention to the fact that contrary to the impression
given by many popular books, Buddhism does not speak with
‘one voice’ even on some fundamental, ontological issues. For
example, the often cited concept of emptiness is interpreted in
at least three logically incompatible ways. Even the famous
anatman
or
no-self
doctrine
is
subject
to
various
interpretations and at least one major Mahayana sutra, The
Mahaparinirvana Sutra specifically asserts the existence of a
self. Of course, it is not up to this paper to decide which
doctrine represents ‘true Buddhism’; that is best left to
Buddhists to settle amongst themselves. All this paper can do is
point out and explore the ontological similarities wherever they
exist in the spectrum of Buddhist ontology. Doing so, will
cover
the
following
topics:
anicca
(impermanence);
momentariness; dependent origination; God; nirvana; the
trikaya and the concept of Manifestations; emptiness;
anatman (no-self) and re-incarnation.
Anicca
Logically speaking, the fundamental ontological principle of
Buddhism is the concept of anicca, universal impermanence or
the transitoriness of all things. In the words of the Buddha,
Impermanent are all component things,
They arise and cease, that is their nature,
They come into being and pass away,
Release for them is bliss supreme.3

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
Impermanence is also ensured by the phenomenon of
dependent origination, according to which everything that is
influenced or conditioned by other beings — which is
everything that exists — inevitably comes into and passes out
of existence, a process that is a constitutive feature of their
being. Anicca includes absolutely everything that exists and is
not confined to material things. It includes us personally, the
mind, thoughts, emotions, ideas, consciousness, all possible
human and non-human conditions and states. In other words,
nothing is eternal, and this avoidance of ‘eternalism,’ (as well as
the opposite extreme of ‘annihilationism’) that is, avoidance of
the belief that anything can be unconditioned and permanent is
a foundational theme in Buddhist philosophy. 4 According to
Mangala R Chinchore, anicca or impermanence is the bedrock
concept of Buddhist ontology.5 In her view, “Buddhists seek to
uphold as uncompromisingly as possible primacy of becoming
over being”6 to which she adds: “Further, the contention that
becoming alone is what really is, is strong enough … to
satisfactorily account for the nature of the real and/or
human.”7 In other words, a thorough understanding of
becoming will help us account for the natural world as well as
our own identity.
The reason for accepting the foundational status of anicca
lies in the first of the Four Noble Truths according to which all
existence is dukka, variously translated as suffering or
unsatisfactoriness. This is what impels us to ‘seek refuge in the
Buddha’ in order to attain ultimate salvation from change.
Things are unsatisfactory and cause suffering precisely because
we precisely because we fail to recognise and accept that they
do not endure and this in turn leads to all the difficulties
associated with ‘grasping’ or trying to prevent change. From
this we can see why the doctrine of anicca lies not only at the
foundation of Buddhist ontology but also at the basis of its
moral teachings. Meditating on impermanence is an essential
part of Buddhist contemplative practice.
Anicca in the Bahá’í Writings
The Bahá’í Writings readily accommodate the doctrine of
anicca or universal impermanence. Abdu’l-Bahá advises us that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
nothing which exists remains in a state of repose — that
is to say, all things are in motion. Everything is either
growing or declining; all things are either coming from
nonexistence into being, or going from existence into
nonexistence. So this flower, this hyacinth, during a
certain period of time was coming from the world of
nonexistence into being, and now it is going from
being into nonexistence. This state of motion is said
to be essential — that is, natural; it cannot be separated
from beings because it is their essential requirement, as
it is the essential requirement of fire to burn.
Thus it is established that this movement is necessary
to existence, which is either growing or declining.8
When we examine this statement, we note, first of all, its
categorical nature, as indicated by the words “nothing,” “all
things,” “everything,” “necessary” and “essential.” In other
words, the phenomena described is applicable to all things
without exception regardless of whether they are natural or
man-made. Next, we notice the flat assertion not only that all
things are in motion but that “movement is necessary to
existence.” (SAQ 233) Moreover, the concept of ‘movement’ and
‘motion’ is not restricted to a change of physical place as
indicated by the reference to growth and decline which involve
changes of augmentation, complexification, actualisation,
transformation, reception, causal action, synthesis, catalysis,
decay and perishing. More significantly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares,
“all things are either coming from nonexistence into being, or
going from existence into nonexistence.” (SAQ 233) This change
is an “essential requirement,” (SAQ 233) that is, an essential
attribute for the thing to exist as the kind of thing it is, for
example, fire, Consequently, there is no doubt that the Bahá’í
Writings agree with Buddhist ontology on the issue of anicca
or transitoriness as the essential, that is, constitutive feature
of all existence. As Bahá’u’lláh says, we
should regard all else beside God as transient, and
count all things save Him, Who is the Object of all
adoration, as utter nothingness. (GWB 266)
Each of us as a “fleeting shadow” (HW AR. 9) and our time here
as a “dust heap of a fleeting moment.” (SWAB 36)

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
The Doctrine of Momentariness
Having recognised that Buddhism and the Bahá’í Faith agree
on universal impermanence in the phenomenal world, it is
important to explore the extent of the similarity. For example,
does it extend to the doctrine of momentariness in any of its
early or later developments?9 In other words, can the Bahá’í
Writings accommodate the idea that in the phenomenal world
what appears as an ‘entity’ is really a sequence of momentary
states and not an enduring substance of some kind? Setting
aside for now the interpretations of differing schools — for the
Madhyamika, this series was unified by a similarity between
moments, while in the earlier Abhidharma philosophy, each
moment was a completely discrete entity 10 — can the Bahá’í
Writings accommodate the concept of perpetual perishing and
creation as described, for example, by Stcherbatsky: “The
elements of existence are momentary appearances, momentary
flashings into the phenomenal world out of an unknown
source.”11 Such is, indeed, the case. Bahá’u’lláh says,
Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which hath
preceded the contingent world — a world which is
adorned with the splendours of the Ancient of Days,
yet is being renewed and regenerated at all times.
Immeasurably exalted is the God of Wisdom Who hath
raised this sublime structure. (TB 141)
The categorical nature of this statement is evident, asserting
that at all times, without exception, creation is being “renewed
and regenerated.” (TB 141) This re-enforces the notion that
change is an essential or constitutive not accidental attribute
of existing things, that simple existence unavoidably involves
coming into and passing out of existence on a continuous
basis. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expresses a similar idea when He says,
“Note thou carefully that in this world of being, all things must
ever be made new” (SWAB 52) We must keep in mind that the
“world of being” refers to all created existence, even though, in
this particular case ‘Abdu’l-Bahá focuses on the specific ways
in which the human spiritual and cultural world has been
renewed under the guidance of Bahá’u’lláh. What is especially
noteworthy in this quotation is the use of the categorical “ever”
which may be read as functioning like the phrase “at all times”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
(TB 141) in the statement by Bahá’u’lláh. We also note that one
of the names of God is the “Resuscitator,” 12 which does not
necessarily imply resuscitation only at the transition from one
age to the next but may also imply ‘resuscitation’ on a
continuous basis as suggested by the other divine name, the
“Sustainer.”13
We may, therefore, conclude that on the issue of
momentariness, the Bahá’í Writings and Buddhist ontology are
in agreement, though the Bahá’í Writings do not elaborate and
develop this theme as much as Buddhism does. Why this should
be the case may be explained by the fact that the two
dispensations have different missions to accomplish or, it may
only appear to be the case because not all of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings have been published at this point. What is germane to
our study is that the doctrine of momentariness can be
accommodated by the Bahá’í Writings.
Dependent Origination
Dependent origination is another fundamental ontological
tent of Buddhism, so much so that the Buddha says, “Whoso
understands dependent origination, understands the Law
[Dhamma or Dharma], and whose understands the Law
understands dependent origination.”14 The “Law” in this case is
the order of the universe, namely, that fact that everything
arises as a result of causes or conditions and that everything
declines as a result of causes and conditions. As noted above,
the usual Buddhist formula for causality is
When there is this, that is.
With the arising of this, that arises.
When this is not, neither is that.
With the cessation of this, that ceases.15
In other words, everything arises or falls in dependence on
previous conditions or causes, and nothing arises without such
conditions of causes. In the words of the renowned scholar
Theo. Stcherbattsky, “every point instant of reality arises in
dependence upon a combination of point-instants to which it
necessarily succeeds, it arises in functional dependence upon a

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
‘totality of causes and conditions’ which are its immediate
antecedents.”16 In other words, nothing is fully independent
from or uncaused by or unconditioned by anything else and we
exist as long as the appropriate causes are present. Things do
not exist in and of themselves which in effect is to say that
their being is relative and not absolute.
Before further exploration of dependent origination, let us
see to what extent the Bahá’í Writings can accommodate these
ideas. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
There is no doubt that this perfection which is in all
beings is caused by the creation of God from the
composing elements, by their appropriate mingling and
proportionate
quantities,
the
mode
of
their
composition, and the influence of other beings. For all
beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging
to the properties of things are the causes of the
existence, development and growth of created beings.
It is confirmed through evidences and proofs that
every being universally acts upon other beings, either
absolutely
or
through
association.
Finally,
the
perfection of each individual being — is due to the
composition of the elements, to their measure, to their
balance, to the mode of their combination, and to
mutual influence. When all these are gathered together,
then man exists.17
Ultimately, of course, all beings depend on God, Who is the
Absolute, uncaused and unconditioned ground of being, that
makes everything else possible. This belief in an ultimate cause
is, as we have seen, compatible with most Mahayana schools.
The similarity is even more striking if we recall that according
to the Bahá’í Writings the eternal creator requires an eternal
creation.18 The essential theme of this passage is that all
phenomena also come into existence as a result of proximate
causes, that is, the inter-action and influence of other
elements, and that all phenomena are connected “like a chain”
of mutual influences and effects. There is no phenomenon that
is not dependent on the action of others for its “existence,
development and growth.”19 Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says “all the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
members and parts of the universe are very strongly linked
together in that limitless space, and this connection produceth
a reciprocity of material effects.”20 Here, too, we discern the
idea that mutual influences lead to the phenomenal or “material
effects” we observe in nature. In other words, all phenomena
exist dependently on other phenomena (and ultimately on God
as the ground of being) and relatively, which is to say, their
existence is not absolute, and is part of an on-going universal
process. There can be no doubt that the Bahá’í Writings
recognise the principle of dependent origination. This is
reinforced by the following elaboration by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
As the perfection of man is entirely due to the
composition of the atoms of the elements, to their
measure, to the method of their combination, and to
the mutual influence and action of the different beings
— then, since man was produced ten or a hundred
thousand years ago from these earthly elements with the
same measure and balance, the same method of
combination and mingling, and the same influence of
the other beings, exactly the same man existed then as
now. This is evident and not worth debating. A
thousand million years hence, if these elements of man
are gathered together and arranged in this special
proportion, and if the elements are combined
according to the same method, and if they are affected
by the same influence of other beings, exactly the same
man will exist. For example, if after a hundred
thousand years there is oil, fire, a wick, a lamp and the
lighter of the lamp — briefly, if there are all the
necessaries which now exist, exactly the same lamp will
be obtained.21
In this statement ‘Abdu’l-Bahá applies the concept of
dependent origination to human evolution, asserting that the
same combination of elements and influences would lead to the
same result in “the same man.” He then provides a simpler
illustration with a lamp and a wick. Anthony Tribe and Paul
Williams make the same assertion and draw out one of its
logical implications when they state that “In particular, our
own existence as embodied individuals is the result of the
coming together of appropriate causes, and we exist just as

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
long as the appropriate causes keep us inexistence.”22 When the
influencing causes and conditions change, so do we — which is
the logical converse of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that if the
same conditions arise, so will the identical object.
It seems clear, therefore, that the Bahá’í Writings and
Buddhism agree on the ontological principle that all parts of
phenomenal reality is ruled by dependent origination.
The Absolute
The universality of dependent origination inevitably leads to
the question of whether or not there are any exceptions to this
principle, a crucial issue, since the answer determines whether
or not Buddhism is or could be seen as a theistic religion. At
this point it is necessary to point out that theism does not
necessarily refer to a personal, Judeo-Christian or Islamic God
Who is personally involved with His creation. Classical deism,
for example, rejects any notion of a God with any personal
interest in creation. If we examine the Bahá’í concept of God,
then
we
see
that
His
most
fundamental
ontological
characteristic is complete independence, the fact that in
Himself, God does not depend on anything but Himself, which
is precisely why He is frequently called “the Self-Subsistent.”23
To emphasise this point, Bahá’u’lláh states, “No tie of direct
intercourse can ever bind Him to the things He hath created,
nor can the most abstruse and most remote allusions of His
creatures do justice to His being.”24 In Buddhist terms, God is
not subject to dependent origination, is not a phenomenon
and for that reason is absolute. Ontologically speaking, such
independence or absoluteness is an absolutely essential
requirement in the Bahá’í concept of God.
There is no question that Buddhist philosophy recognises
exceptions
to
dependent
origination.
Sometimes,
this
exception to dependent origination is referred to as nirvana,
which according to The Encyclopedia of Eastern Philosophy
and Religion, is
…the departure from the cycle of rebirths … and entry
into an entirely different mode of existence. It requires
the overcoming of the three unwholesome roots —

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
desire, hatred and delusion — and the coming to an end
of active volition…. Nirvana is unconditioned.”25
If nirvana is “unconditioned” then it is not affected or
shaped by anything else — but being affected by others is
precisely the key requirement of being subject to dependent
origination. In other words, Buddhism admits that there is at
least one exception to dependent origination, that there is at
least one ‘thing’ that is not describable as a phenomenon like
the others. This is plainly evident in the Buddha’s description
of nirvana in the following terms:
There is, monks, an unborn, a not-become, a not-
made, a not-compounded. If, monks, there were not
this unborn, not-become, not-made, not-compounded,
there would not here be an escape from the born, the
become, the made, the compounded….26
Here we see a description of nirvana as a state that is
completely unconditioned by anything external and completely
unchanging from within. It has no origin, no process of
becoming and no dissolution because it is not compounded.
Ontologically speaking, it is the opposite of the phenomenal
world, indeed, something that transcends it — and, therefore,
qualifies as a true refuge. The Buddha also describes nirvana as
the far shore, the subtle, the very difficult to see, the
unaging,
the
stable,
the
undisintegrating,
the
unmanifest, the unproliferated, the peaceful, the
deathless , the sublime, the auspicious, the secure, the
destruction of craving, the wonderful, the amazing,
the unailing, the unailing state, the unafflicted,
dispassion, purity, freedom, the unadhesive, the island,
the shelter, the asylum, the refuge…27
Here, too, we observe how nirvana is free of all the troubles
and vicissitudes of phenomenal existence as shaped by
dependent origination. It is also noteworthy that in contrast
to the previous description, we see nirvana described in largely
positive, even poetic, terms and even the negatives such as
“unailing” are descriptions of the positive. This should not
surprise us too much since, contrary to popular impressions,
there was “within Buddhism a long tradition of positive

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
language about nirvana.”28 In keeping with this positive
characterization of nirvana, The Lankvatara Sutra says
“Nirvana does not consist of mere annihilation”29 for if it did,
the Buddha would have fallen into the extreme of nihilism when
it is His mission to have “all beings free from the notion of
being [realism or eternalism] and of non-being [nihilism or
annihilationism].”30
The significance of nirvana being an exception to dependent
origination is that in ontological terms, it shows that there is
some kind of absolute, i.e. something not subject to influence
and change. This at least provides a foundation of similarity
with Bahá’í concepts of the ontology of God as provided by
His
Manifestations.
Thus,
from
a
Bahá’í
ontological
perspective, it is not quite accurate to say that Buddhism
rejects all absolutes, most obviously in the case of the
Theravada which rigorously distinguishes nirvana from the
phenomenal world or samsara. In the Theravada Pali Sutras,
“there is not the least insinuation that this reality [nirvana] is
metaphysically indistinguishable at some profound level from
its manifest opposite, samsara.”31 Indeed, for the Theravada
the antithesis of samsara and nirvana is the basis of the quest
for liberation. From a Theravada perspective, if there were no
difference, there would be no point to the whole idea of
liberation from the imperfect samsaric world.
The Ontology of Nirvana
It may be objected that seeking refuge in nirvana cannot be
compared to seeking refuge in God or the “spiritual Kingdom”
of the Bahá’í Writings. God, after all, is an ontological entity
and the “spiritual Kingdom” may well be interpreted as such.
However, with nirvana matters are not so clear since, as many
renowned scholars have noted, Buddhism does not speak with
one voice on this subject.32 This is because to understand the
ontology of nirvana according to the Buddha’s middle way,
that it is, “between existence and non-existence, between
annihilationism and eternalism.”33 It is a difficult concept to
grasp since it refers to nothing we know in ordinary experience;
even the concepts of ‘being’ and non-being’ do not describe it
accurately. Thus, it is not surprising to see a variety of views

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
among scholars. For example, according to David J.
Kalupahana it is “untenable”34 to
…refer to nirvana as a metaphysical reality, something
absolute, eternal and uncompounded, and hence a
noumenal behind the phenomenal.35
He rejects those who see it as an “ultimate Reality”36 yet
among those doing so are the great scholars Walpola Rahula,
Edward Conze and D.T. Suzuki. According to Rahula,
…human language is too poor to express the real nature
of the Absolute Truth or Ultimate Reality which is
Nirvana.37
In making his point, Rahula refers extensively to the
Dhatuvibhanga-sutta (#140) of the Majjhima-nikaya to support
his claim. In his explication of chapter 5 of The Diamond
Sutra, one of Mahayana Buddhism’s most important
documents, Conze writes “In his true reality the Buddha is not
produced by anything…” 38 This means that the true Buddha, the
Dharmakaya, unlike all other phenomena, has a “special status
of
an
Absolute
which
is
in
itself
uncaused
and
unconditioned.”39 The renowned scholar D.T. Suzuki has a
similar view, telling us that nirvana “has acquired several shades
of meaning, some psychological and ontological.”40 He sees
“Absolute Nirvana”41 as a “synonym of the Dharmakaya,” 42
which, as Dharmakaya “is not only a subjective state of
enlightenment but an objective power through whose operation
this beatific state becomes attainable.”43 The Dharmakaya is
one of the names by which the Suchness, “the ultimate principle
of existence,” 44 is known especially when it is considered “as the
fountain-head of life and wisdom.”45 In other words, the
attainment of nirvana is the attainment of Dharmakaya and
since
Dharmakaya
has
an
ontological
aspect,
(as
a
fountainhead, as an objective power) so perforce, does
nirvana.
Suzuki
even
claims
that
Nagarjuna’s
Mulamadhyamikakarika “speaks of Nirvana as a synonym of
Dharmakaya,”46 that is as something that “is eternally
immaculate in its essence and constitutes the truth and reality
of all existences.”47 For his part, Edward Conze writes, that
among other things, nirvana is “power, bliss, and happiness,
the secure refuge… that it is the real Truth and the supreme

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
Reality, that it is the Good…” 48 Here, too, we observe that
nirvana has ontological aspects, being a “power,” the “real
Truth” and the “supreme Reality.” More recently, Buddhologist
Steven Collins also declares that nirvana “is a real external and
timeless Existent, not merely a concept…”49 a view reflected by
Alfred Scheepers, who writes that “Nirvana is a real existent, it
is not a nought.” 50 This view can also be reinforced by referring
back to the quotations from Udana 80-81. In conclusion, if we
accept the view of scholars like Suzuki, Rahula and Conze, it
seems reasonable to claim that a comparison between seeking
refuge with an unconditioned ontologically real entity, called
in one case, God, and an unconditioned, ontologically real
entity called nirvana (or Dharmakaya51) is a genuine similarity
between Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings.
However, not all Mahayana thinkers would agree that
nirvana is different from the phenomenal world of dependent
origination. For these, “the assumption of any kind of duality
is considered as the basic error of logical thinking.” 52
According to Nagarjuna,
There is not the slightest difference
Between cyclic existence [samsara] and nirvana.
There is not the slightest difference
Between nirvana and cyclic existence [samsara]53
This, of course, is the famous doctrine of the identity of
nirvana and samsara, a doctrine that is also found in The
Heart Sutra:
Form is emptiness and the every emptiness is form;
emptiness does not differ from form, form does not
differ from emptiness; whatever is form, that is
emptiness, whatever is emptiness, that is form.54
According to this sutra, form, the samsaric world, and
emptiness, that is, nirvana are equal and convertible terms, a
claim that eliminates all dualities and transforms one into the
other.55 Moreover,
Samsara is Nirvana, because there is, when viewed from
the ultimate nature of the Dharmakaya, nothing going
out of nor coming into, existence [samsara being only

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
apparent]: Nirvana is samsara when it is coveted and
adhered to.56
This echoes The Heart Sutra’s statement that “there is no
origination, no stopping, no path … no attainment and no
nonattainment.”57 What all this means in effect, is that
opposites do not really, that is, ultimately, clash; even “[a]
affirmation and negation, existence and non-existence are not
to be held apart as two.”58 Therefore, “Nirvana is not something
transcendental or that it stands above this world of birth and
death, joy and sorrow, love and hate, peace and struggle.”59
Here, in western terminology, perfection (nirvana) and
reality (samsara) — correctly viewed — are one and the same.
However, there is little doubt that the Bahá’í ontology favours
the Theravada understanding that nirvana and samsara are
ontologically distinct and not to be conflated as the Mahayana
seems to do.
Notwithstanding the view that nirvana is identical with
samsara, the Mahayana does not lack ‘analogues of the
absolute,’ i.e. entities that are not subject to dependent
origination. The first of these is the Dharmakaya.
Buddhism and the Dharmakaya
As Kalupahana points out, there was right from the
beginnings of Buddhism a struggle against tendencies towards
“absolutism,”60 that is, a tendency to see the Buddha as
absolute, unconditioned, non-relative and beyond dependent
origination. There was an impulse to see the Buddha in
transcendental and absolute terms, to turn him into an
ontologically superior being with complete omniscience. As a
result, “the conception of Buddha in the Mahayana caters to
the psychological needs of ordinary people … and, in a way, it
is similar to the conception of God in many of the theistic
religions…”61 This led to the development of the trikaya or three
bodies
doctrine
of
the
Buddha.
The
Buddha
has
a
transformation or ordinary earthly body (nirmankaya) which
can be perceived by the senses; this is the historical Shakyamuni
Who lived around 500 BCE. The second body is the
samboghakaya, through which are apparent the various

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
appearances of the Buddha preaching the Dharma to the
bodhisattvas and other inhabitants of the infinite pure
Buddha-lands. All our images of the Buddha are also
appearances of the samboghakaya. In his samboghakaya the
Buddha manifests not only superhuman wisdom but also the
thirty two major signs of perfection and the eighty lesser
features of excellence.62 The third body is the Dharmakaya, the
absolutely true nature or essence of the Buddha, which is
unconditioned
by
dependent
origination, 63
and
which
“universally responds to the spiritual needs of all sentient
beings in all times and in all places…” 64 Lest it be thought that
Dharmakaya is not ontologically real, Asvaghosa himself says
that “suchness or Dharmakaya in its self-nature [svabhava] is
not a nothing [shunyata]”65 which is why Suzuki, in his notes to
Asvaghosa, concludes that “Dharmakaya … signifies that which
constitutes the ultimate foundation of existence, one great
whole in which all forms of individuation are obliterated, in a
word, the Absolute.”66 In his history of the concept of the
Buddha, contemporary scholar Guang Xing notes that
the eternal and universal Dharmakaya became the basis
of the infinite world as well as the pure nature of all
phenomena … Thus the dharmakaya ontologically
became the principle of the universe since it is
identified with the tatha, the true nature of all
dharmas.67
Later he adds, “First, the dharmakaya is the non-dual reality,
the impersonal principle of the universe and ontologically the
foundation and support of everything.” 68 From this it is clear
that the Dharmakaya is or functions positively as a ground of
being, as that which must necessarily exist in order for all other
things to be. This, of course, is precisely the ontological
function of God in the Bahá’í Writings, and, for that matter in
Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
Moreover, in reference to Buddhist teachings about
emptiness, Asvaghosa says, “Suchness or Dharmakaya is not
empty but is endowed with numberless excellent qualities.”69
Since emptiness and relativity are the attributes of all things
subject to dependent origination, not being empty makes the
Dharmakaya unlike any other kind of being. Not being subject

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
to dependent origination or the twelve causes, also means that
it neither arises nor ceases, that is, it is eternal and hence not
subject to dukka or unsatisfactoriness, is free of ignorance,
grasping and the body. As Guang Xing points out, it is
“lacking movement, change, thought and even action”70 in a
manner reminiscent of the Bahái statement that God is beyond
“ascent and descent, egress and regress.”71 Like God in the
Bahá’í Writings, the Dharmakaya is also empty of all finite
attributes.72 One of the major sutras, The Lion’s Roar of
Queen Srimala, states:
The Dharmakaya of the Tathagata [Buddha] is named
‘cessation of suffering’ and it is beginningless,
uncreate,
unborn,
undying,
free
from
death,
permanent, steadfast, calm, eternal, intrinsically pure,
free from defilement-store…73
Given the teachings about the Dharmakaya demonstrated
above, it is reasonable to conclude that at least some branches
of Buddhism developed a concept of an Absolute that strongly
resembles ontological — not theological — descriptions of God
as an ontologically real ground of being, unchanging and
immutable, timeless, unaffected or unconditioned by anything
other than Himself. In Tibetan Buddhism, for example, this
view is represented by the Jo nang pa school which accepts the
gzhan stong, or “other-empty” teaching according to which
“emptiness” means a lack to extrinsically imposed qualities or
defilements. (This view competes with the rang stong or “self-
empty” tradition of the well known dGe lug school which sees
“emptiness” as intrinsic emptiness, or a lack of qualities
altogether.) Thus, for the Jo nang pa school, the Dharmakaya
may still have attributes, but they are not dependent on or
imposed by others. For this reason, the Dharmakaya
…is an ultimate reality, and Absolute, something which
really, inherently exists. It is eternal, unchanging, an
element which exists in all sentient beings and is the
same, absolutely the same in obscuration and
enlightenment.74
Here, too, we observe a more than passing resemblance to
the ontological attributes of God. The only question arises
regarding the Dharmakaya’s presence in all beings, but even this

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
bears some similarity to the Writings’ reference to the names
of God being present in each created thing.75 In both cases, the
Absolute is universally present, albeit in different ways.
The various teachings about the Dharmakaya effectively
undermine any description of Buddhism as atheistic in any
straightforward and unqualified way. Such a description may
be used rhetorically to emphasise differences with religions
which portray Gods, Who interfere directly in history and have
human personalities. But in that case the conflict is not so
much about the existence of God, or the Absolute or universal
ground of being as it is about the image of God or the
Absolute. Ontologically speaking, calling Buddhism as a whole
atheistic is an unjustifiable overgeneralization
Suchness
Another term for the Absolute in Buddhist literature is
“Suchness’ which in this case refers to the nature of things and
in this case, to the nature of the reality as a whole. Rather than
more explicit description, ‘Suchness’ is used to because when
discussing the nature of things we are at the limit of
verbalization. This term helps overcome this inherent
limitation of the mind. According to the great Buddhist classic
The Awakening of Faith,
The essence of Suchness is, from the beginningless
beginning, endowed with the “perfect state of purity.”
It is provided with suprarational functions and the
nature of manifesting itself (literally, the nature of
making the world of object). Through the force of this
permeation, it induces a man to loathe the suffering of
samsara, to seek bliss in Nirvana and, believing that he
has the principle of Suchness within him, to make up
his mind to exert himself….76
This passage makes it clear that Suchness is not subject to
arising and ceasing — it is beginningless — it has special mental
powers and it manifests itself in the creation of the world., a
concept not far removed from the Bahá’í teaching of creation
by emanation. It also shows that in some way Suchness is
effective in calling upon humans to abandon the painfully

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
transitory world. Here, too, we see ‘God-functions’ in regards
to being beyond time, having special epistemological capacities
and a world creative function. This too suggests that
judgments of Buddhism as atheistic are over-generalizations.
All of these attributes are compatible with the Bahá’í concept
of God. Asvaghosa also says,
From the beginning, Suchness in its nature is fully
provided with all excellent qualities; namely, it is
endowed with the light of great wisdom, the qualities
of illuminating the entire universe, of true cognition
and mind pure in its self-nature; of eternity, bliss, Self,
and purity; of refreshing coolness, immutability, and
freedom. It is endowed with these excellent qualities
which outnumber the sands of the Ganges, which are
not independent of, disjointed from, or different from
the essence of Suchness, and which are suprarational
attributes of Buddhahood. Since it is endowed
completely with all these, and is not lacking anything,
it is called the Tathagata-garbha when latent and also
the Dharmakaya of the Tathagata.77
Asvaghosa assures us that “Suchness or the Dharmakaya is
not empty, but is endowed with “excellent qualities” which
Bahá’ís might understand as the divinely revealed Names of
God. Again we note that many of these qualities are those that
other religions associate with God or at least an Absolute of
some kind. They are also the attributes of all Buddhas.
The Lankavatara Sutra goes much further than this:
When appearances and names are put away and all
discrimination ceases, that which remains is the true
and essential nature of things and, as nothing can be
predicated as to the nature of essence, it is called the
“Suchness” of Reality. This universal, undifferentiated,
inscrutable, “Suchness” is the only Reality but it is
variously
characterised
by
Truth,
Mind-essence,
Transcendental Intelligence, Noble Wisdom, etc. This
Dharma of the imagelessness of the Essence-nature of
Ultimate Reality is the Dharma which has been
proclaimed by all the Buddhas, and when all things are
understood in full agreement with it, one is in

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
possession of Perfect Knowledge, and is on his way to
the attainment of the Transcendental Intelligence of
the Tathagatas.78
This passage clearly shows that Suchness is the Ultimate
Reality, which is “inscrutable,” that is unknowable to
humankind and has been known to all Buddhas, or, as Bahá’ís
would say, to all Manifestations, Who have by implication, all
taught essentially the same thing. Thus, we find in this passage
hints of the Bahá’í doctrine of progressive revelation. There is
nothing here that conflicts with Bahá’í teachings about God.
Tathagatagarbha
Yet another ‘entity’ that is invested with God-like or
Absolute-like qualities is the Tathagatagarbha which is often
referred to as the Buddha-nature. According to The
Tathagatagarbha Sutra, every sentient being has within it the
real potential to liberate itself from the conditioned world and
from its own defilements and to attain its Buddha-nature in
other words, attain nirvana.79 The Buddha says,
Yet I also see that within
The dust of ignorance of all beings,
The Tathagata nature [Buddha nature] sits motionless,
Great and indestructible.80
The Buddha then compares every sentient being to an
“impoverished, vile, ugly [woman] hated by others who bears a
noble son in her womb.”81 For our purposes what is important
about the Tathagatagarbha is that it is equivalent to Suchness
and the Dharmakaya: “Since it [Suchness] is endowed
completely with all these, and is not lacking anything, it
[Suchness] is called the Tathagata-garbha when latent and also
the Dharmakaya of the Tathagata.” 82 In other words, Suchness
and Tathagatagarbha theory admit “the existence of something
basic (dhatu) as the ground for all ephemeral phenomena.” 83
They refer to a ground of being, to some kind of noumenal
reality all phenomena need in order to be whatever they are. As
Queen Scrimala says, “Lord, samsara is based on the
Tathagatgarbha.” And adds

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Lord, the Tathagatagarbha is not born, does not die,
does
not
pass
away
to
become
reborn.
The
Tathagatagarbha
excludes
the
realm
with
the
characteristic of the constructed. The Tathagatagarbha
is
permanent,
steadfast,
eternal.
Therefore
the
Tathagatagarbha is the support, the holder, the base of
constructed [Buddha natures] that are nondiscrete,
not dissociated, and knowing as liberated from the
stores [of defilement] … the Tathagatagarbha has
ultimate existence without beginning or end, has an
unborn and undying nature, and experiences suffering;
hence it is worthy of the Tathagatagarbha to have
aversion towards suffering as well as longing,
eagerness, and aspiration towards Nirvana.84
Here it is evident that the Tathagatagarbha has been given a
super-natural or transcendental personality, not to mention as
function as the ground of being. As The Ratnagotravibhaga
says of the Tathagatagarbha,
The Essence that exists since beginningless time
Is the foundation of all elements,
Owing to its existence, all Phenomenal Life (gati)
As well as the acquisition of Nirvana exists.85
In addition to the attributes that other religions assign to
God, the Tathagatagarbha is also portrayed as having an
‘emotional life,’ suffering, compassion, and longing like all
other sentient beings. This is not at all unlike God as portrayed
in Abrahamic religions and the Bahá’í Writings.
‘Absolutist’ Descriptions of the Buddha
The descriptions of the Buddha(s) is another way in which
personal attributes of a supramundane or God-like being find
their way into Buddhism. As we have already seen, “the Buddha
in the Mahayana scriptures is not an ordinary human being
walking in a sensuous world; he is altogether dissimilar.”86
According to Paul Williams, “The Buddha was never simply a
human being, and is not seen that way by any Buddhist
tradition.”87 The great Avatamsaka Sutra tells us that unlike all

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
other phenomenal beings, “The Buddha’s body is formless, free
from defilements [short-comings.]”88 In a manner reminiscent
of the God portrayed in the Abrahamic religions and the Bahá’í
Faith, but unlike Theravada Buddhism, The Lotus Sutra, for
example, portrays the Buddha as a supernatural being whose life
span is limitless and whose supernatural powers “are
immeasurable, boundless, inconceivable.”89 The Buddha then
adds, “The Buddhas, saviors of the world abide in their great
transcendental power.”90 The Buddha points out that He can
appear in various places and preach to humankind under
various names, an idea that bears remarkable affinities to the
Bahá’í doctrine of progressive revelation. He also says
by an expedient means I appear to enter nirvana
but in truth I do not pass into extinction.
I am always here, preaching the Law [Dharma]
I am always here
through my transcendental power91
In other words his historical nirvana and historical death
(mahaparinirvana) are simply appearances that lead us to
salvation; moreover, like all other savior figures he is always
present to help us. Indeed, later He says, “I am the father of this
world,”92 and, indeed, “the father of all living beings.”93
Furthermore, other sutras94 present the Buddha as a world-
creating being whose worlds are variously called “Buddha
fields,” “paradise” or “Buddha lands” by projecting them from
His mind and becoming the teacher to those beings living in
that world. In this case, we have here a portrait of the Buddha
acting like the creator God of the Bahá’í Faith and the other
Abrahamic religions.
The Alaya-vijnana or Mind
Although some authors favour a strictly epistemological or
phenomenological interpretation of the Yogacara doctrine of
Mind or Consciousness or Alaya-vijnana, others, D.T. Suzuki
foremost among them, recognise that strong ontological
aspects of these terms impel us to understand them as real
entities.95 In his introduction to The Lankavatara Sutra, D.T.
Suzuki writes,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Our ordinary experience takes this world for something
that has its “self-nature,” i.e. existing by itself.
[independently] But a higher intuition tells us that this
is not so, that it is an illusion, and that what really
exists is Mind, which being absolute knows no second.
All that we see and hear and think of as objects of the
vijnanas are what rise and disappear in and of the
Mind-only. This absolute Mind is also called in The
Lankavatara the Dharma of Solitude (vivikta-dharma),
because it stands by itself. It also signifies the
Dharma’s being absolutely quiescent.96
The ontological language is unmistakable: the Mind “really
exists,” is “absolute” and is the ground on which all objects of
thought appear. For example, The Lankavatara Sutra says,
if you say that there is no tathagata-garbha known as
alayavijnana, there will be neither the rising nor the
disappearing [of an external world of multiplicities] in
the absence of the tathagata-garbha known as
alayavijnana. 97
Let is note in passing that the alaya-vijnana is here explicitly
identified with the Tathagatgarbha which we have already seen
is absolute. Here we see the alaya-vijnana functioning as a
ground of being for the external world. The importance of the
alaya-vijnana becomes apparent when we consider its other
name: the store-house consciousness. As the deepest, most
profound of the three levels of mind, the Alaya-vijnana or
store-house consciousness gathers all the “seeds” of human
actions (out of which still more seeds grow) which form the
basis of karma. In other words, the world in which we find
ourselves is conditioned by our own intentional karmic past.
Furthermore, the Alaya-vijnana is often compared to an ocean
and the phenomenal world of multiplicities are the waves tossed
up by the winds of ignorance. (This is the ignorance of not
knowing that the ocean and waves, all the multiplicities are
one.) The Buddha says,
Like waves that rise on the ocean stirred by the wind,
dancing and without interruption,

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
The Alaya-ocean in a similar manner is constantly
stirred by the winds of objectivity, and is seen dancing
about with the Vijnanas which are the waves of
multiplicity.98
“The winds of objectivity” mentioned here are the winds of
ignorance because, according to Yogacara philosophy, in
objectivity we (mistakenly) think we are distinct from
apparently other things; the vijnanas are the moments of
consciousness. Each of them arises and then sinks back down
into the sea, replenishing the alaya-vijnana with more karma
‘seeds.’ Here too we find a teaching that portrays the alaya-
vijnana, like Consciousness or Mind, as the ground of being,
as that from which everything arises and to which everything
returns. Another image of this Universal Consciousness
portrays it as an eternal, boundless ‘stream of dharmas’ or
mind continuum call citta-santana. “It is the sole substratum
of the transmigration in samsara.” 99 Here, too, the apparently
objective things of the multifarious world are simply
temporary ‘waves’ that will return to their source and become
one with the Universal Mind. However, we must not think that
the ‘stream of dharmas’ or the alaya-vijnana is somehow unreal.
As Richard King says
…it must be stressed that for the Yogacarin there is
‘something there’ (viz. the paratantric flow) which
constitutes the ‘raw material’ of our experience,
although in the final analysis this is merely a fruition of
seeds by past consciousness activity (karman).100
In other words, a real — albeit changing — substrate, an
Absolute or ground of being, underlies the appearance of
dharmas in at least one major interpretation of the Mahayana
Yogacara philosophy. Here, too, we observe that although
Buddhism does not recognise a distinct, personal creator God
on Whom the existence of the world (however it may be
conceived) depends, it has so to speak assigned many of this
God’s functions to other entities, such as the Tathagatagarbha
or the Buddhas with supernatural powers of creation and
compassion. Thus, it seems inaccurate to say that Buddhism is
a non-theistic religion since the Mahayana at least recognises
an unconditioned Absolute and a ground of being that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
manifests Itself through the personality of the Buddha(s) as
proclaimed by the Three Body (trikaya) doctrine.
The Trikaya and the Bahá’í Concept of
Manifestations
One of the fundamental issues in the Bahá’í Writings is the
ontology of the Manifestation Who have two stations:
One of these stations, the station of essential unity,
We have already explained. “No distinction do We
make between any of them.” The other is the station of
distinction, and pertaineth to the world of creation
and to the limitations thereof. In this respect, each
Manifestation of God hath a distinct individuality, a
definitely
prescribed
mission,
a
predestined
Revelation, and specially designated limitations.101
To what extent can this teaching accommodate the Buddhist
trikaya doctrine? This doctrine, as we recall, says the Buddha
has three ‘bodies,’ the Buddha’s nirmankaya or historical,
earthly body; his sambhogakaya in which the Buddha appears in
the infinite Buddha-lands and in our conceptions of Him and
the Dharamkaya or the transcendent ultimate truth, the
“indestructible essence of Buddhahood.”102 The fact that it is
“indestructible” means that it is not subject to dependent
origination, is unconditioned and is, therefore, absolutely real.
“Dharmakaya … signifies that which constitutes the ultimate
foundation of existence, one great whole in which all forms of
individuation are obliterated, in a word, the Absolute.”103
To what extent can the Bahá’í Writings accommodate the
trikaya doctrine? In such a comparison, the Dharmakaya as the
Absolute, the ground of all being or God in His ontological
function, obviously functions as the counterpart of God on
Whom everything else depends but Who depends on nothing
else. As we have observed above, the Dharmakaya is the
uncreated, pure, unconditioned unchanging foundation
necessary to the existence of everything else. In other words,
like God, the Dharmakaya is omnipresent, and by logical
extension, omniscient though utterly transcendent. In the
words of the Bahá’í Writings, “No thing have I perceived,

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
except that I perceived God within it, God before it, or God
after it.”104 The Dharmakaya is also endowed with all good
attributes105 (it is not empty) and “universally responds to the
spiritual needs of all sentient beings in all times and in all
places…”106 The Dharmakaya, like God, is also compassionate
and fulfills our needs, though not always in the ways we expect
our would like. Ultimately, “the dharmakaya is free from all
intellectual constructs and is in fact inconceivable,”107 a belief
that corresponds perfectly with the Bahá’í belief in the essential
unknowability of God. Although some scholars assert the
absence of any transcendental or divine entity at all in
Buddhism, no less a scholar than D.T. Suzuki speaks directly of
“God or the religious object of Buddhism,”108 and states that
Buddhism must not be judged as an atheism which
endorses an agnostic, materialistic interpretation of
the universe. Far from it. Buddhism outspokenly
acknowledges the presence in the world of a reality
which transcends the limitations of phenomenality but
which is nevertheless immanent everywhere…109
Suzuki’s intellectual convictions about God in Buddhism is so
strong that he sees even the Madhyamaka who claim to reject all
positive
statements
about
ontology
as
a
form
of
“pantheism.”110
Moreover, there is a clear similarity between the Buddhist
concept of nirmankaya (rupakaya), that is, the Buddha’s body
appearing in time and space and the Bahá’í concept of the
second, human station of the Manifestation in which the
Manifestation appears like any other human being and suffers
the vicissitudes of existence. Bahá’u’lláh refers to this as “the
station of distinction, [which] pertaineth to the world of
creation, and to the limitations thereof.”111 In this station, all
the various Buddhas or Manifestations are different since they
appear in various places and differing sociological, economic
and cultural circumstances. According to Bahá’í teaching,
when we speak of different Manifestations such as Buddha or
Bahá’u’lláh, we are viewing Them in Their “station of
distinction.”112 It is through this station that beings of the
phenomenal world come to know God.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
However, we must be sure to dissociate Bahá’í concepts
from any suggestion that the Manifestation is an incarnation
of God as suggested by TRV Murti in his claim that the
nirmankaya of the Buddha “is a deliberate descent of the
Divinity, incarnating Itself as human being.”113 Under no
circumstances do the Bahá’í Writings accept the notion that
God Himself, in His Essence, appears as a phenomenal being.
(That said, we hasten to add that it is not clear how literally
Murti meant us to take the word “incarnation,” since he also
describes the Buddha as an “emanation of the Absolute” 114 —
that being a concept incompatible with incarnation.) What is
clear, however, is that both the Bahá’í Writings and Buddhism
share a theology in which the Absolute, be it called God or the
Dharmakaya, is revealed — to the limits allowed by human
capacity — by a being that manifests Its powers in the various
phenomenal worlds.
The king of the Dharma peacefully abides in the Dharma
Mansion, the light of the dharmakáya illuminates all….
The dharmakáya of the Tathágata is equal to the
dharmadhátu [cosmos] and manifests itself according
to the inclinations of sentient beings for their specific
needs. The Tathágata, the king of the Dharma, liberates
sentient beings by taming them according to the law of
righteousness.115
On the subject of the samboghakaya, the subject of
congruencies between Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
becomes more difficult because, among other things, the
samboghakaya itself has been characterised so differently by
various writers. For example, some characterise it as the ‘body’
or condition produced by the Buddha’s merit,116 others assert
that “there must in the infinite universe, be buddhas now
teaching in their pure lands and Buddha fields”117 each
appearing in Their own samboghakayas in a way appropriate to
that world. We can access these Buddhas through meditation
and thus our images of the Buddha are also manifestations of
His samboghakaya or His transcendental “Body of Enjoyment
[bliss].”118 In this body, which possesses the thirty-two major
marks of a Buddha, the Buddha also preaches to the infinite
number of bodhisattvas in their Buddha-lands or ‘heavens.’

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
In the Bahá’í Writings, there is no formal concept that
directly corresponds to the samboghakaya, although there is a
concept that bears a certain resemblance to it. According to
the Writings, all believers (and cultures) have their own image
of God and the Manifestation, images to which they are
entitled and which do no harm as long as they do not try to
impose them on others and realise these are man-made images,
valid for ourselves alone and mere devices to aid spiritual
growth. They are not ontological realities. In other words, they
are simply examples of what the Buddha calls “skilful means,”119
fictional heuristic devices that facilitate the discovery of truth.
According to the Writings, if we confuse the image with the
reality to which it refers, then we have fallen prey to “vain
imaginings”120 which will become like a “veil that interveneth
between man and the recognition of the Lord, his God.”121
Moreover, unlike the samboghakaya in Mahayana Buddhism,
these personal and cultural images have no transcendental
aspect or function; they do not exist or function in a separate
ontological realm.
Buddhism does not seem to possess a formal notion of what
the Bahá’í Writings call “the station of pure abstraction and
essential unity”122 in which all the Manifestations are one. This
is not to say that Buddhism does not recognise that all of the
many Buddhas are essentially one; the Avatamsaka Sutra says,
“The Buddhas of the past, present and future are but one
dharmakaya.”123 The same sutra, one of the most important in
Buddhism, also says, “‘It should be known that all Buddhas are
but one dharmakaya.’”124 Thus, it would seem that Buddhism
recognises the concept of what the Bahá’í Writings call the
station of “essential unity” without possessing a formal notion
of that concept.
However, does the Buddha have an ontological station
distinct from the Dharmakaya, from “the ultimate foundation
of existence”125 or “the impersonal principle of the universe and
ontologically the foundation and support of everything” 126? Is
He, like Bahá’í Manifestations, one of those “Primal Mirrors
which reflect the light of unfading glory,” 127 Who is nevertheless
distinct from God, or is He an incarnation of the
transcendental Dharmakaya, ‘descended’ into phenomenal
form? Both in the Bahá’í concept and in incarnationism, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Transcendent is immanent albeit in different ways: with
incarnation the transcendent Dharmakaya is immanent Itself,
in Its own essence, whereas in the case of reflection the
transcendent God is ‘immanent’ only as an image, that is, as an
imitation of an original which is identical in form but distinct
in essence. According to Kalupahana, “Siddattha Gotama was
no other than the representation of Buddhahood.”128 Given this
statement about the Buddha being a representation, an
incarnationist view in which the Buddha and the Dharmakaya
are ontologically one seems unlikely. As a “representation,” He
is not the Dharmakaya Itself in Its inmost nature but rather
something different — though He is not merely a human being
either. This description of the Buddha as a “representation” is
reminiscent of the Bahá’í concept of the Manifestation as a
“Primal Mirror” since both concepts suggest an ontological
distinction between the Transcendent and the “representative”
or “Primal Mirror.”
However, this still leaves the question of whether or not the
Buddha is ontologically distinct from ordinary human beings.
Here is a fundamental difference between the Theravada and
the Mahayana; the former tends to portray the Buddha as a
human being like any other while the latter places emphasis on
the Buddha’s superhuman qualities.129 Certainly in His
nirmankaya aspect He was like all other human beings and
subject to anicca or impermanence (although some schools say
this is true in appearance only), but His eternal existence as
described in the Lotus Sutra and His special powers —
described in dramatic detail in many Mahayana sutras — leave
no doubt that the Buddha was more than a simple, ordinary
human being, ontologically identical to us. This idea is
reinforced by the Buddha’s statement that he is not a god, not
a man, not a gandharva (low ranking deva) but rather a
Buddha,130 thereby indicating His ontologically distinct nature.
For their part, the Bahá’í Writings make it clear that
Manifestations are not simply ordinary human beings.
Bahá’u’lláh states,
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to
bind the one true God with His creation, and no
resemblance whatever can exist between the transient
and the Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute, He

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure
and stainless Soul be made manifest in the kingdoms of
earth and heaven. Unto this subtle, this mysterious and
ethereal Being He hath assigned a twofold nature; the
physical, pertaining to the world of matter, and the
spiritual, which is born of the substance of God
Himself.131
Manifestations are certainly not to be identified with God
but neither are They like ordinary humanity, as the foregoing
description makes clear. They are “born of the substance of
God Himself,” which is to say, They somehow (we cannot say
exactly how) reflect God’s substance or essence. As ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says, “They are the “Universal Realities and the Divine
Beings, Who are the true mirrors of the sanctified Essence of
God.”132 This why Bahá’u’lláh calls Them the “primal Mirrors.”133
They also possess omniscience and “essential infallibility.”134
Thus it would appear that at least in the Mahayana that
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings agree that Buddhas or Mani-
festations are ontologically distinct from the rest of humanity.
Emptiness, Void, Sunyata
Another noteworthy consequence of dependent origination
is the doctrine of emptiness, void, or sunyata. However, an
important caveat is necessary: Buddhist schools do not all agree
on the definition of emptiness. The Yogacara (mind or
consciousness only) system “says that emptiness is the absence
of a difference between an object and the mind apprehending
it,”135 that is, the subject. In a manner reminiscent of Hegel,
Yogacaras believe enlightenment occurs when the subject
realises that s/he is one with the object and his/her self
disappears insofar as it is one with the universe. The Chinese
Ch’an Buddhists (Zen in Japan), on the other hand,
understands “emptiness as the radiant pure mind empty of all
its conceptual accretions.”136 This approach views all mental
activities and the resulting concepts as obscurations of our
natural inner radiance. The Scrimala Sutra, for its part, defines
‘emptiness’ as the cleansing from of “all the defilement-stores
by inconceivable void-ness knowledge. The ultimate knowledge,
which disintegrates the entire defilement-store, is entitled

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
‘Right Knowledge.’”137 The Buddha is also empty of defilement
(“other-empty”) but “is not void of the Buddha dharmas”138 i.e.
He has real, positive essential being and attributes, i.e. is not
“self-empty.” The Ratnagotravibhaga Sutra makes similar
claims. Finally, in Tibet the Jo nang pas (gzhan stong) school,
which is a rival to the dGe lugpa (rang stong) school to which
the Dalai Lama belongs, also sees emptiness as the absence of
defilements and the existence of an Absolute which “is not
empty of its own inherent existence.”139 Indeed, “the self-empty
teachings are said by the Jo nang pas to be correct as far as
reasoning goes, as a lower teaching, clearing away erroneous
views.”140 For them, emptiness is not the lack of real inherent
existence but rather the lack of defilements by the real self.
As we have already noted, the Bahá’í Writings cannot agree
we can abolish the subject-object distinction, and, therefore,
cannot accept the Yogacara definition of emptiness. However,
with the Ch’an definition, matters become more nuanced. The
Bahá’í Writings, do, after all, suggest that if we become like a
hollow reed, if we empty ourselves of all traces of our lower
nature or defilements as well as our acquired learning, we shall
attain a higher, less worldly condition and more pure.
Bahá’u’lláh says,
Blind thine eyes, that thou mayest behold My beauty;
stop thine ears, that thou mayest hearken unto the
sweet melody of My voice; empty thyself of all learning,
that thou mayest partake of My knowledge; and
sanctify thyself from riches, that thou mayest obtain a
lasting share from the ocean of My eternal wealth.
Blind thine eyes, that is, to all save My beauty; stop
thine ears to all save My word; empty thyself of all
learning save the knowledge of Me; that with a clear
vision, a pure heart and an attentive ear thou mayest
enter the court of My holiness.141
In various ways, this whole section is about how to ‘empty’
ourselves of our lower nature defilements, in order to attain a
“clear vision” and a “pure heart.” This bears a remarkable
similarity to the Ch’an notion of discovering “emptiness as the
pure radiant mind”142 as well as to the Tathagtagarbha sutras
such as Queen Srimala and the Ratnagotravibhaga.

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
However, the best known concept of emptiness — at least in
the West — is that of the Madhyamika schools, such as
Prasangika (Consequence) school which assert “that emptiness
is the absence of inherent existence.” 143 They assert that because
all things are dependently originated, they cannot exist by
themselves and for that reason are ‘empty’ of real or true being.
In the last analysis, “all things lack own-existence.”144 Indeed,
anything that results from a causal process is, for that very
reason, dependent on others and has only relative existence, for
which reason it is empty. “The Mahaayaana understands it
[emptiness] to mean that dharmas are empty of own-being i.e.
they are not ultimate facts in their own right, but merely
imagined and falsely discriminated for each and every one of
them is dependent on something other than itself.”145 As the
Heart Sutra says, the Bodhisattva Avalokita “looked down
from on high … and he saw that in their own being they [all
things] were empty.” 146 Such a view effectively equates relative
existence with dependent origination and emptiness. In the
words of Nagarjuna,
Something that is not dependently arisen,
Such a thing does not exist.
Therefore a nonempty thing
Does not exist.147
According to The Lotus Sutra,
All phenomena
are empty, without being,
without any constant abiding,
without arising or extinction
Look upon all phenomena
as having no existence,
like empty space
as without firmness or hardness,
not born, not emerging148

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The Bahá’í Writings are well able to accommodate the
Madhyamaka view that all phenomena lack inherent existence,
are contingent and in that sense, empty — though they do not
refer to that fact as a lack of essence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
In the same manner the existence of beings in
comparison with the existence of God is but illusion
and nothingness; it is an appearance, like the image
reflected in a mirror.149
This means that, like the Dharmakaya, or the Alaya-vijnana,
only God has absolute, which is to say, unconditioned
existence and compared to that absolute existence all other
existence is dependent, relative and, therefore, empty. They are
not only dependent on God but, as we have shown above, also
on the influence of other things in dependent origination. 150
‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasises this relativity by saying,
Therefore, though the world of contingency exists, in
relation to the existence of God it is nonexistent and
nothingness. Man and dust both exist, but how great
the difference between the existence of the mineral and
that of man! The one in relation to the other is
nonexistence. In the same way, the existence of
creation in relation to the existence of God is
nonexistence. Thus it is evident and clear that although
the beings exist, in relation to God and to the Word of
God they are nonexistent.151
In other words, “existence and nonexistence are both
relative.”152 All things are non-existent compared to the
unconditioned Absolute, and, therefore, empty. (Unlike
Buddhism, we also see how this principle applies to various
levels of existence, insofar as a lower form of existence is non-
existent to a higher form, a teaching which further emphasises
the relativity of existence.)
One may, of course, ask whether ‘emptiness’ and ‘non-
existence’ as used in the Bahá’í Writings are the same. The
answer is positive, because both terms refer to the relativity of
existence of all entities, and because in both cases relativity
implies a conditioned, dependent, contingent existence that
contrasts sharply with the unconditioned existence of an

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
Absolute. In other words, Buddhism as well as the Bahá’í Faith
postulate that the relativity of existence is grounded not just in
universal impermanence and contingency but also in the
mutual inter-dependent influences of things on each other. The
Bahá’í Faith and some Mahayana schools can agree as well that
phenomenal reality is contingent, unlike the non-relative
Absolute (such as the Dharmakaya, or Tathagatagarbha) that is
not affected by dependent origination.
However, we are still left with the question of whether or not
the Bahá’í Writings can agree that relativity and emptiness
mean that there is no “arising or extinction” of things as
asserted by The Lotus Sutra. This is not, of course, a
conventional truth, but rather a statement from the ultimate
point of view. In the Bahá’í Writings, the ultimate point of
view is God’s perspective, and according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “in
the world of God there is no time.”153 If there is no time, there
is neither “arising or extinction” which are temporal
phenomena. This means that Bahá’í ontology agrees with the
Mahayana that from the ultimate viewpoint, there are no
temporal phenomena, but they disagree that human beings can
attain that ultimate viewpoint.
No Self (Anatman)
In regards to human nature, emptiness usually refers to the
doctrine of anatman, anatta) or ‘no self,’ a doctrine which is
understood
differently
in
different
Buddhist
schools.
Complicating the issue is the fact that in the Pali Canon, the
Buddha declines to answer whether He preaches self or no-self,
and later He said that both views were mistaken extremes:
“Self” (aatma), Kaa`syapa. is one extreme. “No-self”
(nairaatmya) is the second extreme. In between these
two extremes is the middle position that is formless,
nonindicative, supportless, noumenal, signless and
nonconceptual. This, Kaa`syapa, is called the middle
path, the correct perception of things.154
Elsewhere, He provides a list of all the things the self is not
and cannot be — without explicitly denying that the self exists
perhaps in some other way. 155 According to one scholar, the no-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
self doctrine is not an ontological doctrine about the existence
or non-existence of a ‘self’ but rather a strategy for overcoming
suffering by detaching ourselves from the ‘…self, which is a
major cause of suffering.156 Furthermore, the important
Tathagatagarbha sutras categorically assert that contrary to
the most commonly presented view of the no-self doctrine,
there is, in fact, a transcendent and enduring ground of being,
i.e. the Buddha-nature, in every sentient being. However, the
Theravada, Nagarjuna’s Madhyamaka and the Prasangika
school would deny this without qualification. In the aggregate
of dharmas that make up a human being, there is no dharma
corresponding to a ‘self.’ The ‘self’ is a delusion, an artifact of
dependent origination and non-existent. A significant portion
of Buddhist practice is to attain such realization of no self. As
the Buddha says in one of the suttas [sutras] from the Pali
Canon:
If one does not behold any self or anything of the
nature of self in the five groups of grasping (material
shape,
feeling,
perception,
the
impulses,
consciousness), one is an Arahant [a worthy one, a
pure one, free of mental defilements].157
This theme has one of its best known and oft-repeated
expressions in The Questions of King Milinda (the historical
Bactrian Greek, Menander, 100 BCE). Nagasena, a travelling
Buddhist monk, tells Milinda that he is called merely Nagasena,
that “there is no permanent individuality [soul] in the
matter!”158 Our names are conventional, nominal designations,
“mere empty sound”159 and refer to nothing more than a current
composition of parts. He then uses a chariot as an example,
pointing out that no individual part is ‘the chariot’ and that
when he has broken the chariot down, no thing called ‘chariot’
remains. The same is true of human beings because
…the existence of an ego-soul cannot be conceived
apart
from
sensation,
perception,
imagination,
intelligence, volition etc. and therefore it is absurd to
think that there is an independent individual soul-agent
which makes our consciousness its workshop.160
There is no special independent being which ‘composes’ these
elements according to a desired form or which uses them to

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
achieve its own ends. As Richard Taylor says, “The self whose
existence the Buddha denied was an inner, enduring self, having
an identity through time and presumably being, therefore,
capable of an existence independent of the body and the world
even after death.”161
Conceived in this unqualified manner, there is no common
ground between Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings on the issue
of the self. The Bahá’í scriptures leave no doubt that the soul or
self (we shall use the terms interchangeably here.) is more than
just a name, or a sound but is an ontologically real being, “in
its essence one of the signs of God.” (GWB 160) Indeed, the
underlying essentialist philosophy of the Writings, illustrated
by their insistence on essential nature of the mineral, vegetable,
animal and human, (SAQ 129) on the essence of man (SAQ 220)
and even on the “Essence of God,” (SAQ 147) makes it clear that
Bahá’í essentialism and a purely nominalist understandings of
self are logically incompatible.
The purely nominalist understanding of self is not trouble
free from the standpoint of Buddhist sutras and major
philosophical works. For example, a whole class of sutras — that
is, Buddha word — called the Tathagarbha sutras reject this
explanation. For example, in the Tathagatgarbha Sutra itself the
Buddha says, “Good sons, all beings, though they find
themselves with all sorts of klesas [defilements], have a
tathagatagarbha [Buddha nature or Buddha essence] that is
eternally unsullied, and that is replete with virtues no different
from my own162 and adds, “the tathagatagarbhas of all beings
are
eternal
and
unchanging.”163
This
concept
of
the
tathagatagarbha is so close to a substantial self (see Kalupahana
below) that the Mahaparinirvana Sutra directly identifies it
with self or atman.164 In the twelfth chapter on Buddha-nature,
we read, “The Buddha said: “O good man! ‘Self’ means
‘tathagatagarbha.’ Every being has the Buddha Nature. This is
self. Such a self is, since the very beginning, under cover of
innumerable illusions.”165 According to the Buddha, “The true
self of the Buddha Nature is like the diamond which cannot be
crushed out,” and “The shape of self that seeks to flee from the
world is the Buddha Nature. It is the best way of conceiving
self.”166 These words suggest that the doctrine of anatman in
fact denies a superficial ‘ego-self’ that is absorbed in the affairs

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
of the world; it does not necessarily deny the existence of a deep
Buddha-nature or tathagatagarbha within the individual. As
Paul Williams says, “One thing anyway is clear: the
Mahaparinirvana Sutra teaches a really existing, permanent
element … in sentient beings.”167 The Lion’s Roar of Queen
Srimala Sutra supports this statement as does Asvaghosha’s
“The Awakening of Faith in Mahayana” which states that “The
Mind as phenomena (samsara) is grounded on the Tathagata-
garbha.”168 This means that the phenomenal mind of man is
fundamentally the Tathagatagarbha or Buddha-essence. The
importance of tathagatagarbha or Buddha essence theory in
East Asian, i.e. Chinese, Japanese and Korean Buddhism
cannot be underestimated according to Paul Williams.169
The Tathagatagarbha doctrine is more easily reconciled with
the Bahá’í Writings than the Theravada, Prasangika or
Madhyamaka views. As already noted, the Bahá’í Writings
teach that the soul or self is an ontologically existing entity
although its existence is dependent upon God. Bahá’ís, too,
believe that the soul is eternal once it has come into existence170
and that in itself it is free from all bodily defects, defilements
(klesas) and limitations.
Consider how the human intellect develops and
weakens, and may at times come to naught, whereas the
soul changeth not … the soul dependeth not upon the
body. It is through the power of the soul that the mind
comprehendeth, imagineth and exerteth its influence,
whilst the soul is a power that is free …the soul [is]
limitless … The soul … is in motion and ever active … is
ever endowed with full strength … despite the loss of
reason, the power of the soul would still continue to
exist.171
Like the Tathagatagarbha Sutras, the Bahá’í Writings assert
that the real self, i.e. the ontological foundation of our being,
is originally pure: “Know thou that every soul is fashioned after
the nature of God, each being pure and holy at his birth.” 172 The
ontological foundation of the self, be it called Buddha-nature
or Buddha-essence or ‘soul,’ is, in its nature pristine and
perfect, and is only adventitiously covered by klesas or
defilements. This ‘second self,’ or empirical ego of our own

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
making, which is attached to the world is precisely what must
be overcome to attain our true nature again. “Our greatest
efforts must be directed towards detachment from the things
of the world; we must strive to become more spiritual, more
luminous…”173 Similarly, we must detach from our empirical,
worldly self: “The martyr’s field is the place of detachment from
self…”174 Only when we accomplish this will be once more be
aware of the original and inherent nobility of our spiritual
nature: “Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase
thyself?”175
The Bhavanga and the Alaya
The Theravada Buddhists and the Yogacara (Cittamara)
branch of the Madhyamaka realised that a strict interpretation
of the no-self (anatman) doctrine leads to serious philosophical
difficulties. This, is partly due to the fact that “what the
Buddha says concerning the absence of self seems to conflict
with other things he says and is not obviously a cogent account
of our experience.”176 Several of these problems relate to the
karmic sequence of cause and effect that is conventionally
called a person. What makes any such sequence a particular
sequence, identifiably different from others? What keeps the
continuity of that particular sequence so that it does not
simply fragment into a disorderly chaos? What is it that links
the karmic results of one life with the next? Furthermore, how
can there be continuous consciousness if the mind is only a
series of moments without factors of continuity between
moments? To answer these questions, Theravada Buddhism
developed the concept of bhavanga, which is “usually translated
as ‘life-continuum’ [which] keeps the continuity in a lifespan,
so that what we call a ‘being’ goes on to live from moment to
moment.”177 It is necessary for continued existence. According
to Alfred Scheepers, “This background consciousness can be
compared to a river” 178 whose flow is interrupted by moments
of focused consciousness. For that reason, under normal
waking circumstances, the mind is not aware of the bhavanga
stream, although it may be during sleep. In the Yogacara
(Cittamara) school of the Mahayana, the function of the
bhavanga is fulfilled by the Alaya-vijnana from which
conscious volition and karma arise and where the potential

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
karmic consequences are stored. Indeed, for this reason, the
Yogacara tradition referred to the Alaya-vijnana, as the
“storehouse consciousness”179 which stores the individual seeds
of one’s karmic sequence and thus provides continuity as they
manifest in turn.
The alaya consists of a series of cittas [minds]
accompanied by both karmic seeds and the ‘seeds’ of
potential
defilements
and
memories.
These
all
reproduce themselves over time, thus accounting for
the continuity of personality through and periods of
unconsciousness…180
According to Paul Williams,
The substratum consciousness [alaya], seen as a defiled
form of consciousness … is personal in a sense,
individual, continually changing and yet serving to
give a degree of personal identity…181
David Kalupahana informs us that the alaya is often
portrayed as the ocean agitated by the “dispositional
tendencies,”182 which is to say the karmic seeds of individual
consciousness. However, whether it be the image of a river or
an ocean, the images of the bhavanga and the alaya remains one
of a substratum or ground of being that supports the existence
of something else, be it ever so briefly, and ensures their
continuity. Though in a different way, the Tathagatgarbha also
“bears a close resemblance to the bhavanga” 183 insofar as it
provides a ground of being for all individual existence. As such
it provides for their continuity as well.
There is no question that, as Kalupahana says, the teaching
of alaya — and even bhavanga and Tathagatagarbha — brings us
“dangerously close to the theory of self … advocated by the
heretics.”184 After all, a “life-continuum” acts very much like a
continuously existing entity as the karmic seeds are stored and
reproduce themselves through their consequences. Williams
notes that although the alaya or substratum consciousness
“performs some of the functions of a Self,”185 the Yogacara
struggled hard to deny this charge and to explain it away. Fully
aware of this, Kalupahana presents ways of interpreting the
relevant sutras to avoid this outcome, but the fact remains

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
that for Buddhism, there is no problem-free way of accepting
the concept of underlying continuity — which resembles
‘substance’ precisely insofar as it provides continuity.
Providing and explaining continuity is one of substance’s chief
ontological functions and whenever we have continuity we do
have, in fact, something that is at least substance-like. Thus, it
is difficult to avoid the conclusion that at least some forms of
Buddhism harbour concepts that look and/or function
suspiciously like a substantial self.
Insofar as the bhavanga and alaya function like substances
by providing continuity, they are convergent with the Bahá’í
concept of soul/self. This is because the Bahá’í Writings accept
the continuous existence of the soul from birth right into our
post-earthly existence. That continuity is, after all, the basis of
our moral responsibility for the actions we commit, and their
formative influence on our character. We cannot simply deny
this continuity and slough off responsibility as if our deeds
had been done by someone else at another time. The bhavanga
ensures this will not happen because it provides continuity,
that is, it allows the regular appearance of certain attributes
that identify things through time.
Dependent Origination, Karma and
Reincarnation
The issue of self in Buddhist thought brings us to the subject
of dependent origination, karma, and re-incarnation. Applied
to karma and re-incarnation, dependent origination explains
the origin and causes of suffering and subsequent re-birth if
these causes are not overcome during our lives. The twelve stage
process of dependent origination and reincarnation starts
with ignorance which leads to “volitional impulses”186 (which
the Buddha equates with action 187) from which we get
consciousness, from which we get body and mind, from which
the six senses, from which contact with other things, from
which feeling, from which craving or desire, from which
grasping or clinging, from which becoming from which birth
from which aging, death, grief and despair. 188 The only way not
to condemn oneself to the last, twelfth step of despair, and to
avoid rebirth is not to begin in the first place because the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
underlying principle is that when this arises, that arises and
when this cease, that ceases.189 For the Buddhist, the whole
purpose in studying reality is not an epistemological
satisfaction of knowing but soteriological satisfaction of
ending the ignorance that leads to a new karmic sequence and
inevitable rebirth. The Buddha makes this plain in the parable
of the man wounded by an arrow; no one would waste time
speculating about the origin or construction of the tip instead
of removing it from the flesh.
However, a problem remains: how can there be re-birth if
there is no substantial soul or self to be re-born? According to
Walpola Rahula, when the body perishes, the energies which
constituted that body “have within themselves the power to
grow a new form”190 i.e. be re-born in a new particular
aggregate of energies. No self or soul has moved from one life
to another. As Rupert Gethin says, “there is a causal
connection between the phenomenon that constitute a being at
the time of death and the phenomenon that constitute a being
at the start of a new life.”191 Lives are linked in a causal series.
Keeping the causal connection in mind prevents what could
become a serious misunderstanding for Bahá’ís who may
confuse this concept of re-incarnation with the Bahá’í concept
of the return of the qualities of a previously existing person.
Briefly, a return is indeed referred to in the Holy
Scriptures, but by this is meant the return of the
qualities, conditions, effects, perfections, and inner
realities of the lights which recur in every dispensation.
The reference is not to specific, individual souls and
identities.192
In other words, the qualities return but there is no causal
connection between the first person in whom these qualities
appear, and the next. The resemblance between the two is
coincidental, and, therefore, the Bahá’í Writings cannot be
interpreted as supporting re-incarnation on this basis. Nor do
they accept re-incarnation in the form of a theory of
transmigration in which a substantial soul or self re-appears in
various guises in various places and times. Such a return to
earth is vigorously rejected by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Some Answered

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
Questions in which He devotes an entire chapter to refuting
this idea.193
This brings us to the crucial question: of whether the Bahá’í
Writings can accommodate this application of the law of
dependent origination? On at least one important matter, they
can, namely, both Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings see
ignorance as the root cause of our psychological and spiritual
difficulties. That is why the Noonday Prayer is — in Buddhist
terms — a statement about correct knowledge and correct
action, the first two terms in the Law of Conditionality: “I
bear witness O my God that Thou hast created me to know
Thee and to worship Thee.” In knowing God, we overcome the
ignorance that prevents us from living correctly and in
worshipping God, which is what the Buddha calls taking “right
action.” Moreover, given the frequent admonitions about
detachment the Bahá’í Writings also agree with Buddhism
about the devastating consequences of craving, desire and
grasping.
However, the Bahá’í Writings can only accept one particular
interpretation of the 12-stage process of reincarnation, one
which reinterprets reincarnation psychologically or spiritually
but not ontologically as a process involving the actual end and
re-appearance of a particular causal series. Thus, for the
process of re-incarnation to be acceptable in a Bahá’í context,
we must interpret it to mean that ignorance and grasping lead
to a re-birth in the sense of a re-attachment to the phenomenal
world or to the phenomenal body. By rekindling our
attachments, we pass “from the world of freedom into the
world of bondage.”194 To put it another way, a psychological or
spiritual interpretation of reincarnation refers to the on-going
process of detaching ourselves from the world, falling back
into attachment, which is to say, being ‘re-born,’ and
struggling to detach ourselves again. Thus there appear to be no
reasons why the Bahá’í Writings cannot accommodate such an
understanding of reincarnation and its consequences.
According to P.A. Payutto, in the Abhidharama Pitaka, one
of the “three baskets” of the Theravada, presents this very idea
in which dependent origination

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
is shown occurring in its entirety in one mind moment
… It is not necessary to die before realizing the
cessation of birth, aging, death and thus sorrow,
lamentation, pain grief and despair. Those things can
be overcome in this very life-time.195
Walpola Rahula also leads us in this direction when he
quotes the Buddha as saying, “O bhikku, every moment you are
born, decay and die.” 196 In other words, the process of karma
(which is based on dependent origination) can happen within a
single life as described above, and need not be a “life-time-to
lifetime process”197 as is commonly assumed. With specific
references to original texts and commentaries, Payutto shows
how the ‘one-life-time’ understanding of reincarnation is based
directly on the Pali Canon, although, as he points out, in
modern times, this view has not been prevalent. This revived
‘one-life-time’ interpretation retains the usual 12-stage process
that begins with ignorance and ends with despair but
understands it as happening within our life-time and not
between successive life-times. Viewed psychologically or
spiritually
rather
than
ontologically,
the
concept
of
reincarnation is compatible with the Bahá’í Writings which
explicitly reject it on ontological grounds. According to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
…reincarnation, which is the repeated appearance of
the same spirit with its former essence and condition
in this same world of appearance, is impossible and
unrealizable. As the repetition of the same appearance
is impossible and interdicted for each of the material
beings, so for spiritual beings also, a return to the
same condition, whether in the arc of descent or in the
arc of ascent, is interdicted and impossible, for the
material corresponds to the spiritual.198
There is no exact repetition in nature, and because ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá believes that “the material world corresponds to the
spiritual world,”199 He concludes that there is no such
repetition in the spiritual world either. It may be objected that
this statement applies to a Hindu, not Buddhist concept of re-
incarnation, one in which a substantial spiritual entity re-
appears in subsequent existences. However, given ‘Abdu’l-

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
Bahá’s rejection of repetition in the natural and spiritual
worlds, it is logical to assume that He would also reject the
repetition of particular causal chains or sequences in various
successive existences.
Conclusion
On the basis of this survey of major issues in Buddhist
ontology, we conclude that while genuine differences between
Buddhist and Bahá’í ontology exist, on a significant number of
the most fundamental issues, they agree and that on others
where there is no outright agreement, there is convergence.
Ontologically speaking, the two religions differ more in
emphasis, on what they choose to elaborate, than in basic
ontological doctrines per se. That is exactly what we would
expect from the Bahá’í teaching that differences among
religions arise not from their foundational principles but from
the time and circumstances of their revelation.200 Our findings
thus support Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching on the “fundamental
oneness of religion.” (PUP 175)
SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
Asvaghosa The Awakening Of Faith. Translated by Teitaro Suzuki. New
York: Dover Publications, 2003
———.
The
Awakening
of
Faith,
trans
by
Yoshito
Hakedas,
http://www.hsuyun.org/Dharma/zbohy/Sruti-Smriti/Shastras/
awakening-of-faith.html
Brown, Jason W. “Microgenesis and Buddhism: The Concept of
Momentariness, Philosophy East and West, Vol. 49, No. 3 (1999).
Buddha
The
Digha
Nikaya.
Trans
By
T.W
Rhys
Davids.
http://www.ishwar.com/buddhism/holy_digha_nikaya/
———. Digha Nikaya ii. 155-56, http://www.eurotongil.org/ws/theme091
———.
The
Lankavatra
Sutra.
Trans.
by
Suzuki
and
Goddard.
http://www.purifymind.com/LankavataraSutra
———. The Lotus Sutra. Trans. by Burton Watson. New York: Columbia
University Press
———. The Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra. Trans by Tony Page.
http://www.nirvanasutra.org.uk
———.
The
Majjhima
Nikaya.
Trans
by
Thanissaro
Bhikkhu
http://www.quangduc.com/English/canon/sutta/majjhima/mn00.html

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
———. The Questions of King Milinda, trans. by T.W. Rhys Davids,
http://www.sacredtexts.com/bud/milinda.htm
———.
The
Samyutta Nikaya.
Buddhist
Texts
Through
the
Ages,
http://www.accesstoinsight.org/canon/sutta/samyutta/
———. The Scrimala Devi Sutra. Trans. by Alex and Hideko Wayman.
http://www.mandala.hr/3/srimaladevi.html
———. The Tathagatagarbha Sutra, trans. by William H. Grosnick,
http://www.webspawner.com/users/bodhisattva/
———. Udana 80-81 in Buddhist Texts Through the Ages
Burton, David. Emptiness Appraised. Dehli: Motilal Banarsidass Publishers,
Chatterji, D. “The Problem of Knowledge and the Four Schools of Later
Buddhism,” Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XII, 04/1931. http://ccbs.ntu.edu.tw/FULLTEXT/JRENG/dg.htm
Chinchore, Mangala R. Aniccata/Anityata: An Analysis of the Buddhist
Opposition to Permanence/Stability and Alternative Foundation of
Ontology and/or Anthropology. Dehli: Sri Satguru Publications, 1995
Conze, Edward Buddhism: Its Essence and Development. New York: Harper
and Row, 1965
———. Buddhist Wisdom: The Diamond Sutra and The Heart Sutra. New
York: Vintage Books, 2001
———. “The Ontology of the Prajnaparamita,” Philosophy East and West,
Vol. 3, No. 2, July, 1953
Conze, Edward; Horner J.B; Snellgrove Buddhist Texts Through the Ages.
New York: Harper and Row, 1954
Gowans, Christopher. The Philosophy of the Buddha. London: Routledge,
Cruise, Henry.  “Early Buddhism: Some Recent Misconceptions,”
Philosophy East and West, Vol. 33, No. 2m April 198
The Dalai Lama The World of Tibetan Buddhism. Boston: Wisdom
Publications, 1996
Della
Santina,
Peter.
The
Abhidharma,
http://www.budsas.org/ebud/sabhidham/bhi00.htm
Fozdar, Jamsheed. The God of Buddha. New York: Asia Publishing House,
Garfield, Jay, L. The Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way: Nagarjuna’s
MulaMadhyamika karka. New York: Oxford University Press, 1995
———. “Dependent Arising and the Emptiness of Emptiness: Why Did
Nagarjuna Start with Causation?” Philosophy East and West, Vol. 44,
No. 2, April 1994
———. Empty Words: Buddhist Philosophy and Cross-Cultural Interpretation.
New York: Oxford University Press, 2002

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings
Gethin, Rupert. The Foundations of Buddhism. New York: Oxford
University Press. 1998
Gunasekara,
V.A.
“The
Buddhist
Attitude
to
God,”
http://www.buddhistinformation.com/buddhist_attitude_to_god.htm
Harvey, Peter An Introduction to Buddhism. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1990
Huntington, C.W. and Wangchen, Geshe Namgyal The Emptiness of
Emptiness. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1989
Inada, Kenneth K. “Problematics of the Buddhist Nature of Self,”
Philosophy East and West, Vol. 29, No. 2, April 1979
———. “The Range of Buddhist Ontology.” Philosophy East and West. Vol
28, No. 3, 1988
Kalupahana, David. A History of Buddhist Philosophy: Continuities and
Discontinuities. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1992
———. Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis. Honolulu: State
University of Hawaii Press, 1976
———. Causality: The Central Philosophy of Buddhism. Honolulu: University
of Hawaii’ Press, 1975
———. Nagarajuna: The Philosophy of the Middle Way. New York: State
University of New York Press, 1986
———. “The Early Buddhist Notions of the Middle Path,” Journal of Chinese
Philosophy,
Vol.
7,
1980.
http://ccbs.ntu.edu.tw/FULLTEXT/JROCP/jc26763.htm
King, Richard  “Vijnaptimatrata and the Abdhidharma Context of Early
Yogacara,” Asian Philosophy, Vol. 8, 1 Mar. 1998
Lusthaus,
Dan.
“What
Is
and
Isn’t
Yogacara,”
http://www.hm.tyg.jp/~acmuller/yogacara/intro-asc.htm
McDermott, James. “A Review of Nirvana and other Buddhist Felicities,”
Journal
of
Buddhist
Ethics,
Vol.
6,
1999.
jbe.gold.ac.uk/6/mcdermott991.html
Momen, Moojan. Buddhism and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George Ronald,
———.
“Buddhism
and
the
Bahá’í
Faith,”
http://www.northill.demon.co.uk/relstud
Morgan, Kenneth W. The Path of the Buddha: Buddhism Interpreted by
Buddhists. New York: The Ronald Press, 1956
Murti, TRV The Central Philosophy of Buddhism. London: George Allen
and Unwin, 1974
Newland, Guy Appearance and Reality. New York: Snow Lion Publications,
Paraskevopoulos, John. “The Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana and its
Significance for Shin Buddhism” http://www.nembutsu.info/aof2.htm

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Payutto,
P.A.
Dependent
Origination.
Bangkok:
Buddhadhamma
Foundation, 1994
Sangharakshita A Survey of Buddhism. Boulder: Shambhala, 1980
Scheepers, Alfred. A Survey of Buddhist Thought. Amsterdam: Olive Press,
Stcherbatsky, Theodore. Buddhist Logic, 2 Volumes. New York: Dover
Publications, 1962
———. The Central Conception of Buddhism. Dehli: Motalil Banardass
Publishers, 2001
Suzuki, D.T. Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism. New York: Schocken Books,
Streng, Frederick, J. Emptiness: A Study in Religious Meaning. New York:
Abingdon Press, 1967
Sutton, Florin, Giripescu. Existence and Enlightenment in the Lankavatara
Sutra. New York State University of New York Press
Takasaki Jikido, “The Tathagatagarbha Theory Reconsidered,” Japanese
Journal of Religious Studies 2000 27/1-2
Taylor, Richard “The Anattaa Doctrine and Personal Identity,” Philosophy
East and West, Vol.19, 1969
Thomas, Edward J. The History of Buddhist Thought. New York: Dover
Publications, 2002
Van Gorkum, Nina “The Function of Bhavanga (Life-Continuum)” in
Abhidharma
in
Daily
Life,
http://www.geocities.com/~madg/
gangessangha/Bhavanga.html
Wallace, Alan, B.  “Is Buddhism Really Nontheistic?,” The Snow Lion
Newsletter, 2003, http://www.snowlionpub.com/pages/N49_2.php
Walpola, Rahula. What the Buddha Taught. London: Gordon Fraser, 1978
Wayman, Alex.  “A Defence of Yogacara Buddhism,” Philosophy East and
West, Vol. 46. No. 4, October 1996
———. “The Yogacara Idealism,” Philosophy East and West, Vo. 15, 1965
Williams,
Paul;
Tribe
Anthony.
Buddhist
Thought:
A
Complete
Introduction to the Indian Tradition. London: Routledge, 2000
———. Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations. London: Routledge,
Yun-Hua Jan “The Mind as the Buddha-Nature: the Concept of the
Absolute in Ch’an Buddhism.” Philosophy East and West, Vol. 31, No.
4, 1981

NOTES
1 “Buddhism Rising,” National Geographic, Vol. 208, No. 6, December 2005,
p. 98

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings

2 The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy; The Oxford Companion to
Philosophy
3 Buddha, The Theravada Mahaparinirvana Sutta, in Piyadassi, The Spectrum
of Buddhism, p.104/
4 David J Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 29.
5 Mangala R, Chinchore, Aniccata/Anityata, An Analysis of the Buddhist
Opposition to Permanence, Stability and Alternative Foundation of
Ontology or Anthropology, Sri Satguru Publications, Dehli, 1995
6 Ibid., p. 100.
7 Ibid.
8 Some Answered Questions 233. See also Foundations of World Unity, 83,
57; The Promulgation of Universal Peace 160, 284, 285.
9 David J Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 36.
10 Jason W Brown, “Microgenesis and Buddhism: The Concept of
Momentariness, Philosophy East and West, Vol. 49, No. 3 (1999).
11 Theo. Stcherbatsky, Buddhist Logic, quoted in Kalupahana, Causality the
Central Conception of Buddhism, p. 69.
12 The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 272.
13 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá p.52.
14 Majjhima Nikaya 28 in The Path of the Buddha: Buddhism Interpreted by
Buddhists, p. 81; see also Buddhist Thought: A Complete Introduction to
the Indian Tradition, p. 66.
15 P.A. Payutto, Dependent Origination, , p.4.
16 Theo. Stcherbatsky, Buddhist Logic, Vol. 1, p.119.
17 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178; emphasis added.
18 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 378.
19 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178.
20 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 160, emphasis added. See
also p. 49. See also Some Answered Questions p. 208; p. 143; p. 247.
21 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 179; emphasis added.
22 Tribe and Williams, Buddhist Thought: A Complete Introduction to the
Indian Tradition, p. 64.
23 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 34.
24 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CXLVIII, p. 318.
25 The Encyclopedia of Eastern Philosophy and Religion, p. 249.
26 The Buddha, Udana 80-81 in Buddhist Texts Through the Ages ed. by
Conze and Waley, p.95.
27 Samyutta Nikaya 43:14 quoted at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nirvana
28 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 100.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

The
Lankavatara
Sutra,
translated
by
D.T
Suzuki,
http://lirs.ru/do/lanka_eng/lanka-intro.htm
30 ibid.
31 Bhikku Bodhi, “Dhamma and Non-Duality,” Buddhist Publication
Society,
1994-5,
http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/
bodhi/bps-essay_27.html
32 See David J. Kalupahana’s discussion of nirvana in Buddhist Philosophy:
A Historical Analysis, pp. 69-88.
33 Rupert Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p.78.
34 Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 82. See also
Tyson Anderson, “Kalupahana on Nirvana,” Philosophy East and West,
Vol. 40, No. 2, March, 1990.
35 Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 82.
36 Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 82..
37 Walpola Rahula, What the Buddha Taught, p. 35.
38 Buddhist Wisdom, trans and commentary by Edward Conze, p. 21.
39 Buddhist Wisdom, trans and commentary by Edward Conze, p.22.
40 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 346.
41 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 343.
42 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 343
43 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 347, emphasis added.
44 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p.125
45 D.T .Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p.125.
46 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 347.
47 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 347.
48 Edward Conze, Buddhism: Its Essence and Development, p. 40.
49 James McDermott. “A Review of ‘Nirvana and other Buddhist Felicities,’”
Journal
of
Buddhist
Ethics,
Vol.
6,
1999.
http://jbe.gold.ac.uk/6/mcdermott991.html
50 Alfred Scheepers, A Survey of Buddhist Thought, p. 98.
51 Suzuki sees even Nagarjuna as accepting the association of nirvana and
Dharmarkaya. See Suzuki 347.
52 Edward Conze, “The Ontology of the Prajnaparamita,” Philosophy East
and West, Vol. 3, No. 2, July, 1953.
The
Fundamental
Wisdom
of
the
Middle
Way:
Nagarjuna’s
Mulamadhyamakkarika, chp. 25, verse 19.
54 The Heart Sutra in Buddhist Wisdom, commentary and translation by
Edward Conze, p. 86.
55 Peter Harvey, An Introduction to Buddhism, p. 112.

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings

56 Vicesacinta-brahma-pariprccha Sutra quoted in D.T. Suzuki, Outline of
Mahayana Buddhism, p. 353.
57 The Heart Sutra in Buddhist Wisdom, commentary and translation by
Edward Conze, p. 97.
58 Edward Conze, “The Ontology of the Prajnaparamita,” Philosophy East
and West, Vol. 3, No. 2, July, 1953.
59 D.T. Suzuki, Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 355 -356.
60 David J Kalupahana, A History of Buddhist Philosophy, p.122.
61 David J Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy, p. 121.
62 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 257.
63 Asvaghosa, The Awakening of Faith, trans. by D.T. Suzuki, p.99-100.
64 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 275.
65 Asvaghosa, The Awakening of Faith, trans. by D.T. Suzuki, p. 108.
66 D.T. Suzuki in The Awakening of Faith, p. 62; emphasis added.
67 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory. New York: Routledge
68 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 83
69 Asvaghosa, The Awakening of Faith, trans by Yoshito Hakedas,
http://www.hsuyun.org/Dharma/zbohy/Sruti-Smriti/Shastras/
awakening-of-faith.html
70 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 85.
71 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIX, p. 46.
72 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIX, p. 46: God is
“immensely exalted above every human attribute.”
73 The Lions Roar of Queen Srimala Sutra, trans by Alex and Hideko
Wayman, http://www.purifymind.com/SrimalaDeviSutra.htm
74 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 107.
75 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions p. 195-196.
76 Asvaghosa, The Awakening of Faith, trans. Yoshito S Hakedas.
77 Ibid.
The
Lankavatara
Sutra,
trans
by
D.T.
Suzuki,
http://lirs.ru/do/lanka_eng/lanka-nondiacritical.htm
The
Tathagatagarbha
Sutra,
trans.
by
William
H.
Grosnick,
http://www.webspawner.com/users/bodhisattva/
80 ibid.
81 ibid.
82 John Paraskevopoulos, “The Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana and its
Significance for Shin Buddhism” http://www.nembutsu.info/aof2.htm

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

83 Takasaki Jikido, “The Tathagatagarbha Theory Reconsidered” Japanese
Journal of Religious Studies, 2000 27/1-2
84 The Lions Roar of Queen Srimala Sutra, trans by Alex and Hideko
Wayman.
85 The Ratnagotravibhaga quoted in Sutton, Existence and Enlightenment in
the Lankavatara Sutra, p. 65.
86 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 245.
87 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 169.
88 The Flower Ornament Scripture [Avatamsaka Sutra], trans. by Thomas
Cleary, p. 70.
89 The Lotus Sutra trans by Burton Watson, p.274.
90 The Lotus Sutra trans by Burton Watson, p.275; emphasis added. .
91 The Lotus Sutra, p. 229.
92 The Lotus Sutra, p. 231.
93 The Lotus Sutra, p. 61.
The
Amida
Sutra,
Jodo
Shu
Research
Institute,
http://www.jsri.jp/English/Pureland/SUTRAS/amidatrans2.html
95 Dan Lusthaus “What Is and Isn’t Yogacara,” http://www.hm.tyg.jp/
acmuller/yogacara/intro-asc.htm, and Alex Wayman, “The Yogacara
Idealism,” Philosophy East and West, Vo. 15, 1965. See Also, Rupert
Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 248. Others prefer a
phenomenological approach, e.g. B.K. Matilal and Dan Lusthaus.
96 D.T. Suzuki, Introduction to the Lankavatara Sutra, trans. by D.T.
Suzuki
97 The Lankavatara Sutra, trans by Suzuki,
98 The Lankavatara Sutra, trans by Suzuki
99 D. Chatterji, “The Problem of Knowledge and the Four Schools of Later
Buddhism,” Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XII, 04/1931, http:// ccbs.ntu.edu.tw/FULLTEXT/JR-ENG/dg.htm
100 Richard King, “Vijnaptimatrata and the Abdhidharma Context of Early
Yogacara,” Asian Philosophy, Vol. 8, 1 Mar. 1998.
101 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqan, p. 176.
102 Sangharakshita, A Survey of Buddhism, p. 242.
103 Asvaghosa, The Awakening of Faith, trans. by D.T. Suzuki, p.62.
104 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p. 178.
105 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 85
106 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 275.
107 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 96.
108 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 218.

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings

109 D.T. Suzuki, Outline of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 218.
110 T.R.V. Murti, The Central Philosophy of Buddhism, p. 288.
111 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXII, p. 52.
112 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXII, p. 52.
113 T.R.V. Murti, The Central Philosophy of Buddhism, p. 286.
114 T.R.V. Murti, The Central Philosophy of Buddhism, p. 277.
115 The Avatamsaka Sutra quoted in Guang Xing, The Concept of the
Buddha: Its Evolution from Early Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 83
116 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 128.
117 Rupert Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 233.
118 Sangharakshita, A Survey of Buddhism, p. 252.
119 Micahel Pye, Skilful Means: A Concept of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 1.
120 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 58.
121 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXXVI, p. 86.
122 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 152
123 Avatamsaka Sutra in Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its
Evolution from Early Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 81.
124 Ibid. p. 81.
125 D.T. Suzuki in The Awakening of Faith, p. 62.
126 Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its Evolution from Early
Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 83
127 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIX, p.48.
128 David J Kalupahana, Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis, p. 117;
emphasis added.
129 Paul J Griffiths, On Being Buddha: The Classical Doctrine of
Buddhahood, p. 68.
130 Angattura Nikaya II, quoted in Guang Xing, The Concept of the
Buddha: Its Evolution from Early Buddhism to the Trikaya Theory, p. 71.
131 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p. 66; emphasis
added.
132 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
133 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 103.
134 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 171.
135 Guy Newland, Appearance and Reality, p. 38.
136 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 195.
137 The Lion’s Roar Sutra of Queen Srimala, trans Alex and Hideko Wayman
138 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 101.
139 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 108.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

140 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 108.
141 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, # 11, p. 25; emphasis added.
142 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 195.
143 Guy Newland, Appearance and Reality, p. 38.
144 Tribe and Williams, Buddhist Thought: A Complete Introduction to the
Indian Tradition, p.143.
145 Edward Conze, “The Ontology of the Prajnaparamita,” Philosophy East
and West, Vol. 3, No. 2, July, 1953.
146 The Heart Sutra, trans. by Edward Conze, p.82.
The
Fundamental
Wisdom
of
the
Middle
Way:
Nagarjuna’s
Mulamadhyamakkarika, trans by Jay Garfield, chp. 24, verse 19.
148 The Lotus Sutra, trans. by Burton Watson, p. 200.
149 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.278.
150 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178.
151 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281, emphasis added.
152 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
153 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions p. 156.
154 The Ratnakuu.ta-suutra in David J Kalupahana, “The Early Buddhist
Notion of the Middle Path, Journal of Chinese Philosophy, V.7, 1980.
155 Anattalakkhana Sutta, Samyutta Nikaya XXII.
Thanissaro
Bhikkhu,
“No-self
or
Not-self?”
http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/thanissaro/notself2.html
157 Samyutta-nikaya III, 127-8; Buddhist Texts Through the Ages, p. 74.
158 The Questions of King Milinda, trans. by T.W. Rhys Davids, Bk II, chp.
1. may be during http://www.sacred-texts.com/bud/milinda.htm
159 The Questions of King Milinda, trans. by T.W. Rhys Davids, Bk II, ch. 1
160 D.T. Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism, p. 147.
161 Richard Taylor, “The Anattaa Doctrine and Personal Identity,”
Philosophy East and West, Vol.19, 1969; emphasis added.
The
Tathagatagarbha
Sutra,
trans
by
William
Grosnick,
http://www.webspawner.com/users/bodhisattva/
163 The Tathagatagarbha Sutra, trans by William Grosnick.
164 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations , p. 98.
165 The Mahaparinirvana Sutra, chp. 12, “On the Nature of the Tathagata.”
http://www.nirvanasutra.org.uk
166 The Mahaparinirvana Sutra, chp. 12, “On the Nature of the Tathagata.”
167 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations , p. 99.
168 The Tathagatagarbha Sutra, trans by William Grosnick.
169 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 112.
170 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 92.

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings

171 Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 7; also Bahá’í World Faith, 337.
172 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 190.
173 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 87.
174 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 76.
175 Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words (Arabic), # 13.
176 Christoper Gowans, The Philosophy of the Buddha, p. 63.
177 “The Function of Bhavanga (Life-Continuum) in Abhidharma in Daily
Life
by
Nina
van
Gorkom
http://www.geocities.com/madg/
gangessangha/Bhavanga.html
178 Alfred Scheepers, A Survey of Buddhist Thought, p. 70.
179 Peter Harvey, An Introduction to Buddhism, p. 107.
180 Peter Harvey, An Introduction to Buddhism, p. 107.
181 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 91.
182 David J Kalupahana, A History of Buddhist Philosophy, p. 181.
183 B Alan Wallace, “Is Buddhism Really Nontheistic?,” The Snow Lion
Newsletter, 2003, http://www.snowlionpub.com/pages/N49_2.php
184 David J Kalupahana, A History of Buddhist Philosophy, p. 182,
185 Paul Williams, Mahayana Buddhism: The Doctrinal Foundations, p. 91
186 P.A. Payutto, Dependent Origination, p. 4-5. My summary of the Law
of Conditionality is based on Payutto.
187 “Mental volition, O Bikkus, is what I call action. Having volition one
acts by body, speech, and thought.” Anguttara Nikaya III:415 in
Morgan ed. The Path of the Buddha: Buddhism Interpreted by Buddhists,
p. 85.
188 The Lotus Sutra, trans by Burton Watson, p.131.
189 Majjhima Nikaya III, 115.
190 Walpola Rahula, What the Buddha Taught, p. 33.
191 Rupert Gethin, The Foundations of Buddhism, p. 144; emphasis added.
192 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 183; also Some
Answered Questions, 188.
193 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 282.
194 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 124- 125.
195 P.A. Pyautto, Dependent Origination, p. 41- 42.
196 Walpola Rahula, What the Buddha Taught, p. 33.
197 P.A. Pyautto, Dependent Origination, p. 98.
198 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283 -284.
199 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
200 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 176

Why The Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
Introduction
In his article “The Bahá’í Faith and Religious Pluralism,”
Seena Fazel — a Bahá’í, and psychologist by professional —
argues that the Bahá’í response to religious diversity is a form
of religious pluralism.1 In this article, I will argue that the
Bahá’í Faith is not pluralist. My argument will take the form of
(1) a review and critique of Fazel’s argument, and (2) an
independent evaluation of the Bahá’í response to religious
diversity in light of a concept of religious pluralism developed
by, philosopher of religion, Paul Griffiths. 2 Both arguments
will lead to the conclusion that the Bahá’í Faith is not pluralist.
However, before proceeding to my main arguments I will
provide some historical context to the debate on religious
pluralism/diversity that has been taking place amongst western
academics — mostly Christians — for the past twenty years or
so. This may help us to understand, on one hand, why Fazel
characterizes the Bahá’í Faith pluralist and, on the other, why
Griffiths reinterprets the concept of religious pluralism.
A Brief History of the Diversity/Pluralism
Debate
The contemporary academic debate on religious diversity
has largely revolved around the question of whether or not non-
Christians can be saved — and if so how?3 Moreover, a
dominant model, for organizing responses to this question, has
emerged in the form of a threefold typology that includes
exclusivist, inclusivist, and pluralist responses.4 This typology
was initially conceived by Alan Race in 1983, but has since been
popularized through the work or John Hick, Gavin D’Costa,
Dianna Eck and others.5 From a Christian point of view

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
exclusivists maintain that being a Christian is necessary for
salvation, inclusivists maintain that non-Christian religions
may function as implicit channels for salvation that is,
nonetheless, most adequately available in Christianity, and
pluralists maintain that non-Christian religions can (like
Christianity) lead their members to salvation. This typology,
though developed within the Christian theology of religions,
has been applied analogously to other traditions.6 Thus, for
example, a Buddhist exclusivist will maintain that being a
Buddhist is necessary for “salvation,” and so on.
Although the threefold typology of exclusivism, inclusivism,
and pluralism has been used, primarily, to categorize responses
to the question of salvation it has not been limited to this;
indeed, it has also been used — less precisely — as a general
typology for classifying responses to religious diversity
altogether.7 Accordingly, exclusivists have been characterized
not only as those who maintain that their religion alone leads
to salvation, but also as those who maintain that their religion
alone is true, as those who are zealously committed to the
absoluteness of their religion, and as those who are primarily
concerned
with
aggressively
converting
others.8
Most
differently, pluralists have been characterized not only as those
who maintain that many religions lead to salvation, but also as
those who maintain that many religions are true, as those who
are not fully committed to their religion (because they see truth
in other religions), and as those who are tolerant of, and open
to, other religions. Inclusivism is somewhere between these two
positions, but pluralists and non-pluralists, alike, usually see
inclusivism as a position that eventually collapses into
exclusivism.9 Consequently, the debate has polarized into two
camps — with the advocates of the “pluralist paradigm” on one
side
and
the
advocates
of
the
“exclusivist/inclusivist
paradigm” on the other.
In the West — again, predominantly among those who
identify themselves as Christians — the pluralist paradigm has
become increasingly influential.10 One plausible reason for this
is that it is most compatible with the predominant world-view
of western democracies, wherein religion is increasingly viewed
as a private affair and tolerance is an unsurpassable value.11 In
this cultural circumstance, it is intolerable to identify with a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
point of view that seems to support religious intolerance, and
presumes that a particular religion has broad relevance for the
generality of humankind; consequently, pluralism has become a
more socially acceptable position than either exclusivism or
inclusivism. And, of course, pluralists have contributed to this
situation by frequently caricaturizing so-called exclusivists
and inclusivists as closed-minded, proselytizing bigots who are
convinced
that
everyone
else
is
destined
for
eternal
damnation.12
Arguably, Fazel’s attempt to identify the Bahá’í Faith with
pluralism has more to do with wanting to save it from the
perception that it is religiously intolerant — since religious
tolerance is a virtue in the Bahá’í Faith13 — than with any deep
compatibility between religious pluralism and the Bahá’í
response to religious diversity. And, no doubt, Griffiths’ work
on religious diversity is motivated by his desire to change the
increasingly high profile of religious pluralism by showing what
it really stands for (in his eyes). Nonetheless, I will now make
my two arguments for why the Bahá’í Faith is not pluralist.
Fazel’s Argument that the Bahá’í Faith is
Pluralist
In his article, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,”
Seena Fazel attempts to characterize the Bahá’í approach to
religious diversity using the influential threefold typology
discussed above.
According to Fazel’s reading of this typology, pluralism
affirms that all of the world’s religious traditions constitute
varying perceptions and conceptions of, and responses to, one
ultimate and mysterious Divine reality. In sharpest contrast to
this perspective, exclusivism affirms that one particular
tradition alone teaches the truth and provides the way to
salvation or liberation. Finally, inclusivism affirms that while
one particular tradition does present the final truth, other
traditions may be seen as reflecting aspects of this truth or
constituting approaches to it. Fazel argues that even though
there are statements in the Bahá’í writings suggestive of an
exclusivist or inclusivist approach, the Bahá’í response to
religious diversity is most characteristically pluralist.

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
To rebut the idea that the Bahá’í Faith is exclusivist Fazel
introduces two quotations by Shoghi Effendi, one stating that
peoples of whatever religion derive their inspiration from one
heavenly source and the other stating that it is not possible to
call one world faith superior to another.
To rebut the idea that Bahá’ís are inclusivists Fazel discusses
Bahá’u’lláh’s critique of the Shi`i position that Mu˙ammad
delivered the final revelation, from God, in human history, and
states that Bahá’ís do not claim finality for their own religion
or revelation. He also deals with Shoghi Effendi’s, seemingly
inclusivist, claim that the Bahá’í social programme represents
the “furthermost limits in the organization of society”14 by
qualifying this with a further statement by Shoghi Effendi’s
wherein he says that this superiority should not be attributed
to the inherent superiority of the Bahá’í Faith but to the fact
that it appears in a time when human beings are more advanced
and more receptive to Divine guidance than in previous ages.
Having minimally disqualified the Bahá’í Faith as either
exclusivist or inclusivist, Fazel then tries to identify it with the
pluralist perspective, which involves some additional efforts to
distance it from exclusivism and inclusivism. At this point,
Fazel defines pluralism a little more fully by saying that it
affirms that the different world faiths embody different
perceptions and conceptions of “the Real” and that within each
tradition salvation occurs. This position mirrors very closely
the position of John Hick, a Christian and philosopher of
religion, who has been one of the dominant leaders of the
“pluralist movement” for over twenty years.15
Fazel begins his argument that the Bahá’í Faith is pluralist by
trying to disassociate a number of statements made by both
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá claiming that the world will
eventually see one common faith from their exclusivist or
inclusivist implications. He does this by saying that we must
temper the face value of such statements with Shoghi Effendi’s
insight that from our present vantage point we can only get a
glimpse of what the future religious landscape might look like.
He adds to this that such statements about “one religion”
might be better understood as symbolical affirmations of the
belief that all religions come from God and, thus, there is only

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
one religion — the religion of God. Fazel is suggesting here that
statements in the Bahá’í writings claiming that all the peoples
of the world will embrace one common faith (i.e. the Bahá’í
Faith) might simply be saying that in the future all the peoples
of the world will realize that that there is, in a sense, one
common faith since they all come from God.
Fazel continues his argument by claiming that the Bahá’í
Faith will never become “imperialist” because it does not
prejudice, or impose social sanctions, against non-Bahá’ís, and
it encourages freedom of choice in religious matters. (Fazel is
accepting, here, the conventional position that “imperialist”
behaviour is characteristic of exclusivism and inclusivism.)
He then asks what unifies the various religious traditions
and says that according to the Bahá’í view they are unified
insofar as they are all “centred on the spiritual transformation
of human beings.”16 (Again, Fazel is closely following Hick who
defines religion as the transformation of human beings from
self-centeredness to God centeredness.) In making this claim,
Fazel is trying to root the commonality of religion in
soteriology rather than theology — apparently because he thinks
it is less prone to dispute. Fazel then tries to flesh out this
common soteriology by claiming that the focus of spiritual
transformation in all traditions is “the adoption of spiritual
and ethical values common to religious traditions, such as
moderation, trustworthiness, justice, and compassion.”17 And
while he adds that there are other uniting features among
religions — such as similarities in the lives of different religious
founders, an apophatic (or negative) theology, and their
“civilizing power” — he clearly stresses (as does John Hick) an
ethics-based soteriology as the common feature of all religions.
At this point in his argument, Fazel moves in the direction
of trying to construct a “Bahá’í theory of religious pluralism,”
and he bases this theory on the Bahá’í principle that “religious
truth is relative.” This theory is grounded in the claim that
absolute knowledge of God by human beings is impossible, and
Fazel draws on the following quotation from the founder of the
Bahá’í Faith that clearly seems to support it: “Exalted,
immeasurably exalted, art thou above the strivings of mortal

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
man to unravel Thy mystery, to describe Thy glory, or even hint
at the nature of Thine Essence.”18
Continuing to develop his Bahá’í theory of religious
pluralism, Fazel discusses two (closely related) concepts in the
Bahá’í writings that help to explain religious diversity, and are
also based on “relativity.” One concept accounts for religious
differences in terms of social evolution: Different social laws
and ordinances are revealed by God at different times in
keeping with the needs of human beings in different ages. The
second concept accounts for religious differences in terms of
the spiritual maturity and receptivity of humanity: As
humanity becomes more spiritually mature and receptive to
Divine revelation it is able to receive a more “intense”
revelation.
Finally, Fazel argues that cognitive relativism (i.e. the
relativism stating that human beings cannot know the
Absolute) resolves the problem of the “seemingly contradictory
ontological statement of monism and dualism.”19 His basic
argument here is that these conceptions, to the extent they are
meaningful, are about human beings and not an “exterior
Absolute.”
I will now critique Fazel’s characterization of the Bahá’í
Faith as pluralist and, so, argue that it is not pluralist.
A Critique of Fazel’s Argument
I will begin this critique by showing where I think Fazel has
either selectively or wrongly read Bahá’í sources in order to
make his point that the Bahá’í Faith is pluralist. Following this I
will briefly present John Hick’s concept of religious pluralism
(which is, more or less, the concept of pluralism adopted by
Fazel) in order to broaden the base for my general argument
that the Bahá’í Faith is not pluralist. And, finally, I will present
this general argument or critique against the idea that the
Bahá’í Faith is pluralist.
In his initial efforts to distance the Bahá’í Faith from
exclusivism, Fazel quotes Shoghi Effendi saying that “One
cannot call one World Faith superior to another, as they all
come from God.20 The rest of this sentence reads as follows:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
“they are progressive, each suited to certain needs of the
time.”21 The relevant point here is that the Bahá’í position never
claims that the different religious traditions of the world are
without qualification equal as Fazel’s selective quotation seems
to suggest. The Bahá’í concept that religion is one is very
strong but so is its correlated concept that religion or
revelation is progressive meaning that more recent religions are
more appropriate for humanity in the “present age.”
In discussing inclusivism Fazel focuses primarily on finality,
and rightly claims that Bahá’ís reject the concept that religious
revelation can come to an end; thus, Bahá’ís believe that there
will be further revelation from God in the future that will
supersede even Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation. What Fazel does not
mention is that Bahá’ís also believe that there will be no further
revelation from God for at lest one thousand years from the
start of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation (dated from 1852). 22 Thus,
Bahá’ís do not claim that Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation represents the
final revelation that humanity will ever see, but they do claim
that it is the final revelation humanity will see for a relatively
long period of time. Consequently, Bahá’ís reject a priori the
religious legitimacy of any new religious movement such as
Scientology or the Unification Church — in the Bahá’í view
religious unity can only be seen concretely in the past.
Fazel quotes Shoghi Effendi in an effort to show that we
can’t really know what the future holds and so Bahá’í forecasts
that the entire world will eventually become Bahá’í needs to be
taken with a “grain of salt”: “all we can reasonably venture to
attempt is to strive to obtain a glimpse of the first streaks of
the promised Dawn that must, in the fullness of time, chase
away the gloom that has encircled humanity.”23 Again, Fazel is
being so selective here that I think he is distorting Shoghi
Effendi’s point of view. Shoghi Effendi often expressed
reservation about “our” capacity to envision the exact details
of the Bahá’í commonwealth that, he believed, will emerge in the
fullness of time, but he never expressed doubt that a Bahá’í
world-commonwealth will, in fact, emerge when the masses of
humanity embrace the Bahá’í Faith in the distant future.24
As mentioned above, in support of the idea that human
beings can never claim absolute knowledge about God, Fazel

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
quotes a passage from Bahá’u’lláh stating that God is beyond
the grasp of mortals. There is, however, another very important
part to the Bahá’í concept of God; namely, the concept of the
Manifestation of God. Bahá’í doctrine does affirm that the
Essence of God is entirely beyond the capacity of human beings
to comprehend, but it also asserts that human beings have the
capacity to know God by knowing God’s Manifestation or the
Manifestation
of
God’s
Names
and
Attributes.
The
Manifestation of God can be understood on two different
levels — one pertaining to the Godhead and the other pertaining
to the various worlds of created being. With respect to the
Godhead, the Manifestation of God is the qualitative or
manifest aspect of the Godhead which is also responsible for
generating created being; with respect to the world of created
being the Manifestation of God is a being who Manifests all of
the Names and Attributes or God to the extent it is possible in
any given realm of being. Thus, Bahá’ís believe that Bahá’u’lláh
is, on one level, a Manifestation of God who reveals all of the
Names and Attributes of God that can possibly be manifested
in human form and, most ultimately, He is identified with the
Manifest aspect of the Godhead.25 So, from the Bahá’í point of
view one cannot ultimately know God, but one can know God
by knowing God’s Manifestation — and Bahá’ís believe that
knowing and loving God by knowing and loving God’s
Manifestation is their primary purpose in life. In other words,
the “ignorance” about the Absolute is not so complete, in the
Bahá’í Faith, as Fazel makes it out to be.
The last point I will make before moving on to my brief
presentation of Hick’s pluralism and general argument against
the view that the Bahá’í Faith is pluralist pertains to Fazel’s
reading that the statements in the Bahá’í writings, suggesting
that the peoples of the world will embrace one common faith
(i.e. the Bahá’í Faith), are better understood as symbolic ones
“denoting the religion of God.” Fazel suggests that religious
harmony will be achieved when the various religions of the
world come to the realization that there is in fact only one
religion, since all religions come from God. I think Fazel’s
position is incongruent because it ignores the progressive
element in the Bahá’í concept of revelation which is always tied
to its concept of religious unity.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
According to Bahá’í doctrine, God has established a great
covenant with all of humanity. In this covenant humanity has
an obligation to recognize and obey God’s Manifestation when
He or She appears on earth, and to the extant that humanity
fulfills its end of the bargain God will perpetually send
guidance to humanity through further Manifestations of God.
Implicit in this is an obligation for humanity to recognize and
obey God’s most recent Manifestation. In other words, Bahá’ís
do believe that it is desirable for all human beings to recognize
and obey God’s most recent Manifestation. In fact, Bahá’í
doctrine could probably be used to argue that it is not possible
to recognize that there is “ultimately only one religion” without
recognizing God’s most recent Manifestation — unless from
ignorance.26 Let us now take a closer look at John Hick’s
pluralism.
John Hick was trained as a Presbyterian minister, but
achieved prominence for his work in the philosophy of religion,
particularly on the topic of religious diversity. Hick’s theory
of religious diversity is rooted in his philosophical theology.
According to Hick, all of the world’s great faiths distinguish
between God as unknowable and God as knowable.27 And, he
concludes from this that God, or the Real, is single and
unknowable in essence, but conditionally known in many
different forms on account of many different human attempts
to grasp It. Hick argues that in the course of human history
two major, culturally determined, concepts of the Real have
emerged: One that conceives of the Real theistically, as a
personal God, and the other that conceives of the Real non-
theistically, as an impersonal Absolute. Of course, neither of
these concepts is equated with perfect knowledge of the Real,
and both remain on the level of human effort to know that
which is essentially unknowable. Nonetheless, Hick claims that
all of the world’s great faiths provide an equally effective
context for achieving salvation regardless of which concept of
God they adhere to. In other words, Hick reduces religion to an
effective context for achieving salvation — which he defines
substantively (rather than formally) as the capacity to turn
individuals from self-centeredness to God-centeredness. Hick
argues that we can judge religions to be contexts for salvation
insofar as we can is we can see in them “fruits of the spirit” —
love, justice, happiness, and so forth — and his argument that

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
all of the world’s great religions are on par, with respect to
salvific efficacy, is based on his observation that “saintliness”
or the “fruits of the spirit” seem to be, more or less, evenly
distributed in all of these traditions.
I will now proceed to my general argument that the Bahá’í
Faith is not pluralist, either by Fazel’s standard or Hick’s.
According to Fazel’s definition of pluralism, pluralism
affirms that the different world faiths are different
perceptions and conceptions of, and different responses to,
“the Real” and that salvation — understood as ethical
development — occurs in all religions. And, on the basis of
what Fazel has argued we might also include that his version of
pluralism affirms that no one religion’s conceptions and
perceptions of “the Real” are ultimately true or universally
valid.
Even with respect to this most generic aspect of pluralist
theory — the affirmation that different religions represent
different conceptions and perceptions of “the Real” — the
Bahá’í Faith is not clearly pluralist. From the Bahá’í perspective,
religion is most fundamentally revelation from God and
religious differences can be accounted for in terms of the
differing spiritual capacities and differing social requirements
of the people that receive God’s revelation. Moreover, if we
compare the Bahá’í understanding of religion with the
understanding of religion in Hick’s pluralist theory — that
religion is only a human response to the Divine — then it is even
less pluralist.
As for the claim made by both Fazel and Hick that salvation
or spiritual/moral growth occurs in all religions, the Bahá’í
teachings would concur — but not without qualification. As
discussed above, Bahá’ís believe that there is only one religion
and that the purposes of the seemingly different religions are
fundamentally the same:
…all the great religions of the world are divine in
origin, that their basic principles are in complete
harmony, that their aims and purposes are one and the
same, that their teachings are but facets of one truth,
that their functions are complementary, that they

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
differ only in the non-essential aspects of their
doctrines and that their missions represent successive
stages in the spiritual evolution of human society.28
Thus, we can say that “salvation” or moral development occurs
in all religions. However, Bahá’ís do believe that it is better to
recognize God’s most recent Manifestation and, therefore,
would have to qualify, in some way, any claim that “salvation”
or moral development is equally effective in all religions. Again,
the idea of progressive revelation implies that it would be more
advantageous to one’s spiritual development to align oneself
with God’s most recent Manifestation opposed to, for
example, a Manifestation of God whose teachings were more
appropriate for human beings living 2000 years ago. This is
quite different from what Hick’s (and, perhaps, Fazel’s)
pluralist theory suggests.
Finally, Fazel’s pluralist theory implicitly claims that no one
religion’s conceptions and perceptions of “the Real” are
ultimately true. It is true that from the Bahá’í perspective it is
impossible to know the Essence of God but, as discussed
above, this does not mean that Bahá’ís accept the “relative”
truth of all concepts of God. Again, Bahá’ís believe that God
can be known though God’s Manifestation, and that God’s
Manifestation reveals laws and ordinances that constitute
normative behaviour for all human beings. Moreover, they
believe that the teachings of each Manifestation of God are
valid for a specific duration of time, or “dispensation,” during
which time there can be no further revelation from God. The
concept of relativity in pluralist theory is tied to the idea that
religion is human and therefore not universally relevant, the
way Divine revelation is typically supposed to be. The Bahá’í
concept of relativity as articulated by Shoghi Effendi is very
different from this; it does not claim that religious truth is not
Divine or not absolutely binding on humanity for a specific
period of time, only that it is eventually subject to change as a
result of a further revelation from God. Once again, pluralist
theory and Bahá’í theory are out of step.
In conclusion, the Bahá’í teachings are too incompatible
with either Fazel’s or Hick’s concept of religion pluralism to
characterize it as pluralist; in other words, it is not pluralist. I

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
will now try to make the same point, more positively, by
arguing that when evaluated against the concept of religious
pluralism developed by Paul Griffiths, the Bahá’í Faith is, again,
not pluralist.
Paul Griffiths’ Concept of Religious Pluralism
Paul Griffiths is a philosopher of religion or philosophical
theologian, and Schmitt Chair of Catholic Studies at the
University of Illinois at Chicago. Griffith’s book Problems of
Religious Diversity is, on one level, an attempt to introduce the
dominant questions that arise in the face of religious diversity,
along with the dominant answers to these questions. However,
on another level, his book is an attempt to reinterpret the
exclusivist/inclusivist paradigm and the pluralist paradigm
and, indeed, to defend exclusivism and inclusivism against
pluralism.
In Problems of Religious Diversity, Griffiths makes the
uncommon move of addressing the various problems, or
questions, that arise in the face of religious diversity
separately. This allows him to address each question with a high
degree of precision and, therefore, create a relatively realistic
picture of the pluralist and exclusivist/inclusivist paradigms,
insofar as these exist. Most generally, Griffiths addresses sets
of questions related to the following four topics: (1) truth, (2)
epistemic confidence, (3) the religious other, and (4) salvation
— the last of which he sees (in part) as a combination of
elements from the first three sets of questions. As said,
Griffiths’ work is somewhat apologetic, and this apology
usually takes the form of him trying to show what he thinks the
pluralist position on various issues really is, and what the
exclusivist/inclusivist position on these same issues really is —
in contrast to how they are conventionally understood within
the popular threefold typology previously discussed.
On the issue of truth, it is conventionally understood that
exclusivists maintain that truth is only found in their religion,
inclusivists maintain that ultimate truth is found in their
religion even though other religions may contain partial truth,
and pluralists maintain that truth is to be found in all or many
religions. In contrast, Griffiths begins his analysis of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
question of truth by distinguishing two types of response: (1)
those that claim parity with respect to truth and (2) those that
claim difference. As for making a parity response, Griffiths
surveys
three
different
perspectives:
a
Kantian,
a
Wittgensteinean, and a non-religious. Very basically, the
Kantian view achieves parity with respect to truth by claiming
that there is a single religious claim that defines religion as
such, and that all religions make this same claim (even if they
also make many false claims — and, amongst themselves, many
contradictory claims). The Wittgensteinean view achieves
parity by seeing that all religious claims are coherent within
their own “form of life” and, so, all are true in this qualified
sense. Finally, the non-religious view of parity, which is most
commonly held by those involved with legislation in religiously
neutral states, is achieved by limiting the scope of religious
truth, for example, by saying that all religious claims are equally
true insofar as they do not conflict with an overriding interest,
or law, of the state.
As for responses that say religious claims are different with
respect to truth, Griffiths identifies two: exclusivism and
inclusivism. In discussing exclusivism Griffiths insightfully
points out that no actual religious communities maintain this
position because it amounts to saying that no religious
community, except one’s own, makes claims that are true.
(Most religions are open to the possibility that their rivals may
have gotten a few things right and, so, are inclusivist with
respect to truth.) Griffiths goes further by identifying
different forms of inclusivism: “necessary inclusivism” that
says other religions must make at least some true claims;
“possibilist inclusivism” that says other religions may make
religious claims that are true; “closed inclusivism” that says all
true claims made by other religions are already explicitly made
by one’s own religion; and, “open inclusivism” that says other
religions may teach and understand truths not explicitly taught
and understood by one’s own religion. Griffiths own view is
that possibilist, open inclusivism is the best response to the
truth claims of other religions. (Necessary inclusivism and
possibilist inclusivism can be held together with either open or
closed inclusivism.) Nonetheless, Griffiths’ main points here
are (1) that exclusivism, with respect to truth, is a very
uncommon view amongst religious people, and (2) that a parity

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
claim with respect to truth necessitates a circumscription (or
limitation) of what truth means in one way of another.
Griffiths next question deals with what he calls “epistemic
confidence” and here he asks whether one’s epistemic
confidence in their religious beliefs (or to use Griffiths’ words
“the religious assents they find themselves making”29) is, or
should be, reduced or removed as a result coming to know
about religious diversity.
Conventionally, it is believed that knowledge of diversity has
virtually no effect on exclusivists and inclusivists because they
are so dogmatically convinced about the absolute validity of
their own religion. In contrast, pluralists characteristically
recognize the non-absoluteness of their own religion when they
encounter religious others who strike them as being highly
religious.
Griffiths discusses this issue in terms of how it is dealt with
by the religious and the non-religious. With respect to the
religious he says that there are three factors that come into
play: (1) the original degree of certainty that one has in their
religious beliefs or the confidence one has in the religious
claims they assents to and accept — this is the most important
point; (2) the perceived trustworthiness or authority of those
making religious claims incompatible with one’s own; and (3)
the resources within one’s one religion to explain the existence
of others.
Griffiths argues that religious diversity does not, usually,
present a significant problem for religious people because their
assents and acceptances of religious claims are made with a
very high degree of epistemic confidence. Indeed, this
circumstance is built into the very fabric of religion which
Griffiths defines as “a form of life that seems to those who
belong to it to be comprehensive, incapable of abandonment,
and of central importance.”30 Thus, the very level of
commitment with which religious beliefs are held usually
prevents religious people from losing confidence in them in the
face of incompatible beliefs. However, Griffiths also argues
that one’s epistemic confidence may be weakened, or even
completely destroyed, if one encounters others who are making
incompatible claims and still seem to be highly religious,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
and/or if one’s one religion lacks resources for making sense of
these claims. But, again, he maintains that this scenario is
relatively anomalous for religious persons because they usually
are able to find resources within their own tradition to explain
the incompatible claims of other traditions or, possibly, to
impugn the credibility of those teaching them.
As for the typical non-religious response to the question of
whether an awareness of religious diversity should decrease the
epistemic confidence that persons have in their religious
claims, this is also a negative one — albeit of a very different
kind. The non-religious view of religion maintains that religion
belongs entirely to the private sphere, and that any religion
admitted to this sphere is on par with any other religion
admitted to it. Thus, on this account, religious differences are
simply matters of personal preference of no particular
consequence, similar to choosing a strawberry ice cream cone
instead of a chocolate one.
Griffith’s own view is that an awareness of religious
diversity should not cause religious persons to lose confidence
in the truth of their own religious claims; however, he also does
not advocate a simple and arrogant dismissal of the
incompatible claims of others — or, of course, the solution
offered by a privatized understanding of religion. Instead, he
suggests that an awareness of diversity should create an
“epistemic uneasiness” that will serve as a launch pad for
creative conceptual developments within one’s own tradition.
In other words, he believes that an awareness of diversity
should lead to creative attempts to explain this diversity within
the framework of one’s specific tradition. And, although he
does not explicitly say it, Griffiths must clearly see the loss of
epistemic confidence that characterizes pluralism, as a failure
to maintain an authentic religious perspective.
Griffiths’ next question about the proper attitude towards,
and the proper treatment of, the religious other (Griffiths uses
the word “alien”) is a natural follow up to his discussion about
epistemic confidence. This is because the maintenance or lose
of epistemic confidence in one’s religious assents and
acceptances will certainly influence one’s religious state of
being and, therefore, one’s relations with other beings —

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
religious or otherwise. Conventionally, it is understood that
epistemic confidence in the claims of one’s own religion — or
belief in the truth of one’s own religion — necessarily translates
into an imperialistic and aggressive missionary impulse
towards other religions. In contrast, it is believed that the
weaker epistemic confidence of pluralists is conducive to a
more open, tolerant, and dialogical approach to other
religions.
Griffiths identifies three patterns of response to the
religious other: (1) toleration or “enduring the religious alien”;
(2) separation or “isolating the religious alien”; and (3)
conversion or “domesticating the religious alien.31
The principle idea of toleration is to simply let the religious
alien be. In discussing toleration, Griffith’s tries to make the
point that toleration really means putting up with, or not
interfering with, something that one does not really like or
value — such as one’s allergies (Griffiths’ example). Presumably,
he does this to undermine the idea that tolerance is a noble
value. However, the more important point he makes is that
pure tolerance is practically impossible to effect politically. In
other words, as much as a state may claim that it is tolerant of
all religions it will, in reality, always support and permit
certain religious proposals and discourage and prevent others.
For example, in Ontario, the United Church of Canada (like
other Churches) is permitted to marry gay and lesbian couples,
but neither Muslims nor Mormons are allowed to practice
polygamy.
As for isolation, Griffiths sees this as an extreme form of
toleration, wherein one tries to let religious others be by
staying away from them. Griffith’s main point, in connection
with isolation, is that it is almost impossible to achieve in the
modern world.
The principle idea of conversion is not to endure religious
otherness, but to remove it by making the religious alien a
religious kin. In his discussion of conversion Griffiths points
out that attempts to make others more like ourselves is a not a
unique religious phenomenon, but a phenomenon that is
commonplace in all spheres of life — non-smokers try to
convert smokers, liberals try to convert conservatives, and so

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
on. But, more importantly, he makes the point that a religion’s
teachings about the necessity of converting others is typically
an integral part of a complex set of that religion’s teachings,
and that to reject the former would necessitate rejecting the
latter. So, here again, Griffiths is suggesting that embracing the
pluralist idea that missionary work should be abandoned is
tantamount to rejecting one’s religion. Griffiths, also makes
another important point in this connection; namely, that one’s
treatment of others (be they religious or not) is not exclusively
conditioned by attitudes developed in the face of religious
diversity. In fact, it is normative for religions to inculcate an
ethical and loving response to other human beings irrespective
of their religious convictions. (The “golden rule” would be an
example of this.) Moreover, it might even be argued that those
with the highest degree of confidence in the truth of their
religion would take these inculcations to treat others ethically
most seriously.
Finally, Griffiths discusses the question of salvation. As
already talked about, salvation has conventionally been
discussed in terms of exclusivism, inclusivism, and pluralism.
In his discussion of salvation Griffiths notes that there are two
related, but separate, questions that can be addressed. The first
asks how one is saved and the second asks who is saved, and it
is this first question that he says can be coherently answered
with the responses of exclusivism, inclusivism, and pluralism.
Griffiths presents the exclusivist, inclusivist, and pluralist
responses to the question of how one is saved with
representatives of the three positions — Karl Barth, Karl
Rahner, and John Hick respectively — but he is also very
vigorous in distilling the formal responses. According to
Griffiths, exclusivism boils down to claiming that belonging to
the “home religion” is necessary for salvation (albeit not
necessarily sufficient for it). In other words, if one wants to be
saved one must belong to the home religion (even if belonging
to the home religion won’t necessarily guarantee one’s
salvation). Inclusivism is only a variation on this position
because it is based on this same assumption that if one wants
to be saved one must belong to the home religion; however, it is
different from exclusivism in that it employs a looser sense of
what it means to belong to the home religion. This view brings

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
into play the notion that one might be participating in the
home religion while not aware of this fact, and seemingly
participating in another religion. Pluralism, in marked
contrast, rejects the basic premise of exclusivism and
inclusivism — that one must belong to the home religion to be
saved — in order to assert the basic truth of pluralism that all
religions are able to deliver salvation in and of themselves. But
in rejecting the basic premise of exclusivism and inclusivism,
pluralism finds itself bound to a problematic position;
specifically, that belonging to the home religion is not
necessary for salvation. Griffiths calls this form of pluralism,
which cuts the connection between salvation and membership
in a religion, negative pluralism and notes that it is rare for
religious persons to hold this position. Instead, religious
persons are more likely to adopt a positive form of pluralism
that
claims
a
positive
connection
between
religious
membership
and
salvation,
and
maintains
that
this
connection, whatever it is, is equally present in all religions —
despite the fact that this usually undermines the diversity that
pluralism seeks to honour. More, specifically, the positive form
of pluralism must define what is meant by religion and
therefore must necessarily exclude some things from the
category of religion. Consequently, Griffiths says that the sort
or pluralism advanced by Hick is only quasi-pluralistic.
The other question, related to salvation, that Griffiths
addresses is that of who is saved, and he identifies two
responses: “restrictivism” and “universalism.” Restrictivism
says all will not be saved which can be expressed differently as
some will not be saved. Universalism, on the other hand, says
that all will be saved or, expressed differently, that there is no
one who will not be saved. Griffiths also discusses these two
positions in the mode of necessity and the mode of possibility
(where they merge into the same position); nonetheless, what I
think is most valuable in this discussion is his point that
exclusivism is not necessarily tied to restrictivism. In other
worlds, it is possible to hold that belonging to the home
religion is necessary for salvation, without holding that this
means some or all people will suffer eternal damnation. Or, it is
coherent to be an exclusivist, who says that all must belong to
the home religion to be saved, while being a universalist, who
says that all will be saved. This is significant because

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
exclusivism (in its Christian form) is often rejected on the
ethical grounds that a loving God could not consign to hell
human beings who had no chance of becoming Christian.
I will now end this discussion of Griffiths’ work by
summarizing the main points in his critique of the pluralist
paradigm, and then by summarizing the main points in his
defence of the exclusivist/inclusivist paradigm.
Griffiths, makes four main points in his critique of the
pluralism paradigm. First, he argues that parity claims with
respect to religious truth require a circumscription of truth
that denudes it of its usual meaning. Second, he argues that the
loss of epistemic confidence, characteristic of pluralists who
encounter religious diversity, entails abandonment of one’s
religion — or of the central claims of one’s religion. Third, he
argues that the broad religious tolerance advocated by
pluralists, is largely idealistic, insofar as it is almost impossible
to effect politically. Fourth, and finally, he argues that
pluralism is usually only quasi-pluralistic because it necessarily
circumscribes the category of religion.
Griffiths also makes four main points in his defence of the
exclusivism/inclusivism paradigm. First, he argues that no
religions are actually exclusivist with respect to truth. Second,
he argues knowledge of religious diversity need not lead to
epistemic arrogance or a loss of epistemic confidence, but can
lead to epistemic uneasiness that can serve as a basis for
creative tradition-specific thought about religious diversity.
Third, he argues that mission or teaching is in integral part of
religion, which can’t be rejected with the hope that the rest of it
can be accepted. Fourth, and finally, he argues that exclusivism
with respect to salvation does not necessarily entail a
commitment to restrictivism — or it is possible to hold the
position that it is necessary to belong to a particular religion
in order to be saved and the position that all human beings will
be saved.
Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist — Again
Now, if we understand the pluralist paradigm and
exclusivist/inclusivist paradigm in Griffiths’ terms, I think the

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist
Bahá’í
approach
to
religious
diversity
is
clearly
exclusivist/inclusivist.
On the question of truth the Bahá’í teachings seem to
promote a Kantian parity in claiming that all religions teach
the same essential truths. However, unlike the Kantian view,
Bahá’ís don’t dismiss non-essential truth claims (or those that
are emendable to change) as irrelevant with respect to being
true. For example, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (the Bahá’í equivalent of
the Qur’án or Bible) contains a number of social laws that are
seen as “non-essential” insofar as it is believed that these will be
abrogated, in the future, on account of subsequent Divine
revelation; however, Bahá’ís also believe that obedience to these
laws is one of their highest religious duties,32 and so non-
essential truths do not mean inconsequential truths as they do
in the Kantian view.
Thus, I would classify the Bahá’í Faith as some form of
inclusivism on the question of truth.
On the question of epistemic confidence, I would contend
that Bahá’ís have a very high level of epistemic confidence in the
religious claims they assent to and accept — because they
believe these are grounded in Divine revelation. Moreover, this
confidence is not significantly eroded by an awareness of
religious diversity because Bahá’ís have excellent resources for
explaining religious diversity within their religious tradition.
Indeed, the Bahá’í explanation of religious diversity is one of
the central doctrines of the Bahá’í Faith — and Bahá’ís have
unparalleled confidence in this doctrine because (as above) they
believe it has been Divinely revealed.33 In this respect they are
not similar to pluralists who, according to Griffiths, typically
lose confidence in the truth of their own tradition when they
encounter religious diversity.
On the question of how to deal with the religious other I
would say that Bahá’ís follow the conversion model. Bahá’ís
believe that teaching their faith to others is, on one hand, a
prime requisite for their own spiritual growth and, on the
other, the most vital activity for bringing about the collective
or social salvation of humanity. 34 This obligation to teach is,
however, accompanied by a prohibition on conversion by
violence or even aggressive proselytizing,35 and ethical

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
exhortations to relate to religious “aliens” in friendly and
respectful ways.36 The Bahá’í Faith, obviously, does not fit the
isolation model but neither does it fit the toleration model; the
Bahá’í Faith is not tolerant in the sense of holding what is, in
Griffiths’ view, an unrealistic ideal that society ought to
tolerate all socio-religious practices and behaviours because, in
principle, there can be no socio-religious norms. Once again,
the Bahá’í Faith is most in line with the exclusivist/inclusivist
paradigm.
On the question of salvation, Bahá’ís certainly believe that
being a Bahá’í is advantageous to one’s salvation, but they also
believe that the soul’s progress does not stop with death, and
that the potential for spiritual growth in the afterlife is
infinite.37 Bahá’u’lláh also says that one of the bounties of the
Bahá’í “dispensation” is that the kin of Bahá’ís, even though
they may outwardly be non-believers, will be granted divine
forgiveness and mercy 38 — suggesting that they may be in as
good a shape as believers with respect to salvation in the
afterlife. On this basis I would classify the Bahá’í Faith as
inclusivist
and
universalist,
again
placing
it
in
the
exclusivism/inclusivism paradigm. It might also be noted that
the question of salvation is relatively moot from a Bahá’í
perspective because Bahá’ís deny the possibility of knowing
one’s own, or another’s, spiritual status and destiny.
Nonetheless, with respect to each of Griffiths’ four
questions, the Bahá’í Faith belongs in the exclusivist/inclusivist
paradigm and, so, it can once again be concluded that the
Bahá’í Faith is not pluralist.
Conclusion
I have now argued in two different ways that the Bahá’í Faith
is not pluralist, which is not to say that it is any of the things
that have frequently been ascribed to non-pluralists —
religiously intolerant, imperialistic, aggressively oriented to
mission, and so on. And this fact, despite Griffiths’ attempts
to defend exclusivism and inclusivism emphasizes the need for
better theorizing about responses to religious diversity that are
not pluralist, and even those that are.

Why the Bahá’í Faith is Not Pluralist

NOTES
1 Seena Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith” Interreligious
Insight 1, no.3 (2003): 42-49. For an argument similar to Fazel’s see
Dann J. May, “The Bahá’í Principle of Religious Unity: A Dynamic
Perspectivism,” in Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives on a Bahá’í
Theology, ed. Jack McLean (Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997), 1-36.
2 Paul J. Griffiths, Problems of Religious Diversity (Oxford: Blackwell
Publishers, 2001).
3 S. Mark Heim, The Depth of the Riches: A Trinitarian Theology of
Religious Ends (Grand Rapids, Michigan: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing
Company, 2001), 3.
4 Gavin D’Costa, The Meeting of Religions and the Trinity (Maryknoll,
N.Y.: Orbis Books, 2000), 1.
5 Alan Race, Christians and Religious Pluralism: Patterns in the Christian
Theology of Religions (London: SCM Press, 1983); John Hick, Problems
of Religious Pluralism (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1985), 28-45;
Gavin D’Costa, Theology and Religious Pluralism (Oxford, Basil
Blackwell, 1986); Dianna Eck, Encountering God (Boston: Beacon Press,
1993), 166-199.
6 Heim, The Depth of the Riches, 3; Eck, Encountering God, 169.
7 For a good account of how exclusivism, inclusivism, and pluralism have
been constructed as paradigmatic, and somewhat “cartoonish,”
responses to religious diversity altogether, see Kate McCarthy.
“Reckoning with Religious Difference: Models of Iterreligious Moral
Dialogue,” in Explorations in Global Ethics, eds. Sumner B. Twiss and
Bruce Grelle. (Boulder: Westview Press, 1998), 73-117.
8 For one example of this, see John Hick, “The Non-Absoluteness of
Christianity,” in The Myth of Christian Uniqueness, eds. John Hick and
Paul F. Knitter (Maryknoll, N.Y.: Orbis Books, 1987), 16-36.
9 For a representative pluralist, see Hick, Problems of Religious Pluralism,
28-45; for a representative non-pluralist, see Griffith, Problems of
Religious Diversity, 138-169.
10 D’Costa, The Meeting of Religions and the Trinity, 1.
11 Griffiths, Problems of Religious Diversity, 101-11.
12 It should also be noted that non-pluralized have been involved in
caricaturizing pluralists — typically as non-committed “relativists.”
Again, see McCarthy, Reckoning with Religious Difference, 73-117.
13 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 36.
14 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, 163.
15 For the fullest expression of Hick’s philosophy of religious pluralism
see, John Hick, An Interpretation of Religion: Human Responses to the
Transcendent (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1989).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

16 Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,” 3
17 Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,” 4
18 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, 3.
19 Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the Bahá’í Faith,” 5.
20 Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File, 494.
21 Lights of Guidance, 494.
22 Bahá’u’lláh. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 195-196.
23 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, 35.
24 See, Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, 202-206.
25 Juan Cole, “The Concept of Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.”
Bahá’í Studies 9 (1982): 1-38; Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 233-234.
26 Bahá’u’lláh’s primary doctrinal text, the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, arguably makes
this point.
27 Hick is reluctant on this point to recognize that many religions who
distinguish God as Unknowable and God as knowable also claim that it
is possible to become perfectly identified with the Unknowable aspect
of God, and that others religions transfer absoluteness to the knowable
aspect of God which, as far as I can tell, is never thought of as a limited
human understanding of the Unknowable Essence.
28 Shoghi Effendi, “The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh: A World Religion,” 1947
http://bahai-library.com/?file=shoghieffendi_faith_bahaullah
29 Griffiths, Problems of Religious Diversity, 17.
30 Griffiths, Problems of Religious Diversity, XIV.
31 Griffiths, Problems of Religious Diversity, 101; 111; 119.
32 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 19.
33 See Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i- ˆqán.
34 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, 88.
35 Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice, 66.
36 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 22.
37 Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, “Memorandum:
The Condition of Non-Bahá’ís After Death, 1991” on The Bahá’í
Research
Library
(Downloaded
from
http://www.bahai-
education.org/ocean/), 4
Research
Department
of
the
Universal
House
of
Justice,
“Memorandum,” 1

The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of
Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
Introduction 1
Anyone who has read Shoghi Effendi’s writings carefully
recognizes their strong rhetorical effects. In essence, rhetoric is
eloquent language or speech that aims to impress, to move or to
persuade. At the outset, it is important to note that Shoghi
Effendi’s rhetoric was not used merely to embellish his
epistolary; it fulfilled a practical purpose. As “suasive speech”
is still used in teaching, law, politics and religion to instruct,
to move and to convince, Shoghi Effendi exercised his
rhetorical art for similar purposes. During his administration
from 1922-1957,2 writing qua head and Guardian of the Bahá’í
community,3 his main tasks were, not only to interpret the
Bahá’í writings, and to instruct in matters of faith, but just as
importantly, to exhort the Bahá’ís “to arise”4 to execute the
sequential Plans he had devised for developing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Divine Plan.5 In fulfilling this function, Shoghi Effendi
demonstrated considerable rhetorical skill, a talent that was
developed, not only by divine charisma, but also by formal study
and practice. The Guardian was clearly cognizant of certain
classical elements of rhetoric, but owing to its Bahá’í-specific,
i.e. religious content, and the originality of his magisterial
style, his discourse also exhibits certain atypical features.
This paper analyses Shoghi Effendi’s rhetoric by explicating
the following five points: (1) The historical background to the
teaching and function of rhetoric. (2) The Guardian’s interest
in and formal study of rhetoric. (3) The connection between
Shoghi Effendi’s moral authority and his credibility as a
rhetorician. (4) The rhetorical effect of the Guardian’s
epistolary (5) A paradigm of seven rhetorical modes used in his

The Art of Rhetoric
writings will be proposed. In substantiating these points, I will
correlate selected material from the history of rhetoric and
rhetorical theory to the writings of the Guardian. While some
of the material on rhetorical theory is capable of standing on
its own, it has been selected and analysed because of its
relevance to the topic. This paper situates our author’s rhetoric
within a long rhetorical tradition, which his writings
perpetuate, and offers an understanding of the underpinnings
of his rhetorical technique.
The Function of Rhetoric
The Teaching and Study of Rhetoric
The teaching and study of rhetoric was a central element in
European, and later American education, from before the time
of Plato until the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.6
Having waned in the Romantic era, the study of the ancient art
was revived in the 1960’s, and some forty-five years later (2006)
is thriving again in a number of mainly American universities
which offer courses in departments of Rhetoric, English
Literature and Speech or Communication Studies, albeit
following widely divergent theoretical schools and agendas.7 It
seems likely that in the coming years of the Bahá’í Era, with the
continuing systematic study of the sacred texts and the
writings of Shoghi Effendi, the study and practice of rhetoric
will be revived along spiritual and ethical lines that will serve
the search for truth and the teaching of the Bahá’í Faith.
The topic of rhetoric, like so many other potentially fruitful
areas of Bahá’í Studies, is a virtual open field. Although no
prior study of the Guardian’s rhetoric has already been
written, Bret Breneman’s 1991 article “Socrates’/Plato’s Use of
Rhetoric: A Bahá’í Perspective” offers a revised understanding
of rhetoric that would make it more consonant with Bahá’í
aims and purposes. Breneman observes that in the twentieth
century the art of rhetoric has fallen into disrepute, but he also
notes its current revival and favors its rehabilitation along new
lines. (This article takes the same stance). He critiques the
eristic (polemical) and logocentric (mere speech-based) aspects
of classical rhetoric to suggest a remaking of eloquent speech

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
along ethical and spiritual lines; viz. a more harmonious, less
adversarial style that would further truth-seeking, create unity,
and carry ethical weight. In short, he favors the development of
new rhetorical styles that would resemble Bahá’í consultation.
By these means, the speaker/writer would persuade by a more
ethically engaged, collaborative process that diverges from
rhetoric’s questionable past.8
While
we
can
readily
agree
with
Breneman’s
recommendations of a rhetoric of civil exchange, based on the
moral
and
spiritual
norms
that
he
advocates,
his
recommendations cannot be applied so conveniently to Shoghi
Effendi’s writings which show, in fact, a pervasive use of
classical rhetoric’s logos (word/speech/reason) and eristic
techniques. However, unlike deliberative/political rhetoric, the
Guardian’s discourse served religious purposes, and his
epistolary represents a renewed and expanded model of that
genre. But like classical rhetoric, the Guardian’s speech is highly
persuasive. When he writes as the sole authorised interpreter
and defender of the Bahá’í Faith in its Formative Age (1921-), he
is, at times, unrestrainedly judgmental and defensive,
particularly when he condemns the present age and its godless
ways, the world’s rejection of Bahá’u’lláh, the “enemies of the
Faith,” or when he defends it or its followers from attack
and/or persecution. I should add, however, that the Guardian’s
gentler speech also praises, guides, informs, encourages and
invokes Bahá’u’lláh’s love and confirmations on his fellow-
believers. On balance, however, discrete elements of classical
rhetoric are clearly found in Shoghi Effendi’s writings,
particularly Aristotle’s epideictic category, the rhetoric of
praise or blame, and several well-established rhetorical
techniques discussed below.
The Foundation: Aristotle’s On Rhetoric
While rhetoric is not philosophy, for Aristotle, whose On
Rhetoric (322-320 BCE) laid the foundation for all subsequent
discussion,
it
was
the
counterpart
of
Dialektik,9
a
conversational form of Plato’s search for truth by question
and answer, and could be treated systematically. Rhetoric
should not be reduced, consequently, to one of the decorative
arts. It merits further consideration as one of the long-

The Art of Rhetoric
standing theoretical and practical arts that is an object of
study in its own right. Aristotle’s understanding of rhetoric
included an ethical component which related it to Athenian
“politics.” For it was in the ideal city-state that human
happiness was to be found.10 But more pertinent to this paper,
and as we shall see below, Aristotle taught that the effectiveness
of rhetoric depended on the ethical credibility of the orator.
As alluded to above, rhetoric has two functions that operate
as one: the first is to persuade, a goal that is attained in
traditional rhetoric by eristic speech rather than deductive
logic; the second is to move; ideally, to action. Thus, rhetoric
may be defined simply as speech that aims to persuade and to
move the listener/reader to action, a definition that well suits
our author’s purposes. Aristotle was wary of eristic because
disputation made good use of the semi-logical rhetorical
syllogisms of emotional oratory. In Aristotle’s view, these
syllogisms were liable to mislead since they were less sure than
the formal logical demonstration of first premises and
conclusions [On Rhetoric, 1354a3-5].11 While persuasion is clearly
the main goal of rhetoric, Aristotle made the following fine
distinction between rhetoric and dialectic. Rhetoric, he wrote,
is a faculty or power [dynamis] whose goal “…is not to
persuade but to see the available means of persuasion in each
case” [1355a14].12 In other words, the purpose of rhetoric is to
support the logical argument. Logic and rhetoric were intended
to work together. While they do not employ Plato’s dialectics,
the conversational logic that lead to propositional truth,
Shoghi Effendi’s writings show proof of sound arguments
based on authoritative reason. (see “The Magisterial Mode” below)
Shoghi Effendi’s Formal Study of Rhetoric
Aristotle points out in his On Rhetoric that, unlike the
philosopher, no special training is required to become an
effective orator. Individuals may learn to use rhetoric
effectively by intuitive means. In addition to any innate ability
he possessed, Shoghi Effendi did, in fact, study rhetoric over
three semesters during a two year period (1915-17) at the Syrian
Protestant College, later the American University of Beirut.
During the first and second semesters of his junior year (1915-
16), rhetoric was included on his syllabus and again during the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
first semester of his senior year, 1916-17.13 His native ability
coupled with the three semesters of courses helps to explain the
Guardian’s cognizance and effective use of some of rhetoric’s
classical techniques.
The recollections of the Guardian’s boyhood school friend,
`Alí Yazdí, who visited Shoghi Effendi at Oxford between
November 4-5, 1920 and who “...stayed in Shoghi Effendi’s
room for a couple of nights,”14 made note of the soon-to-be
Guardian’s lively interest in the debating societies at Balliol
College during the Michaelmas term15 of that same year:
He was intensely interested in the outstanding speakers
at Oxford and especially those in Oxford Union, 16
where the great statesmen had received their training.
He wanted me to attend the debates with him and to
hear the address by [James] Bryce. He hoped we could
discuss the talks together. After my visit I received a
card from him dated 6 November 1920, which bore the
crest of the Oxford Union Society.17
Shoghi Effendi’s card to `Alí Yazdí reflects, not only his
disappointment at his missing the debate — Mr. Yazdí had to
return to London en route to the United States — but also
Shoghi
Effendi’s
keen
interest
in
the
Oxford
Union
proceedings: “Dear `Alí: I have received your card, and I knew
well that it would be difficult for you to come here again. I did
miss you profoundly last night and the night before,
particularly as I firmly anticipated that we would both enjoy
and comment upon the procedures of the debate and lecture.”18
This passage also conveys something of the young Oxonian’s
spirit of enthusiasm and love of learning which have been
mentioned by Madame Rúhiyyíh Rabbaní (1910-2000), the
Guardian’s wife, companion, collaborator, secretary and
biographer, in her seminal work, The Priceless Pearl (1969),
qualities that were first manifested when he was still a boy
living in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s home in Haifa. Shoghi Effendi’s lamp
would burn late into the night requiring ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to go to
his door with the order: “Enough! Enough! Go to sleep! But this
serious-mindedness of Shoghi Effendi pleased Him greatly.”19
Riaz Khadem, in his period-study Shoghi Effendi in Oxford
and Earlier (1999), also quotes William Elliot, a fellow

The Art of Rhetoric
Oxonian, that the Guardian presented a paper to The Lotus
Club, which Elliot wrote “…was the outstanding club, I think,
for intellectual discussions and dialogue… The Lotus Club
appreciated the qualities of Rabbani.”20 Shoghi Effendi’s
rhetorical skill was grounded, consequently, not only in
constant practice, but also in his formal studies and life
experience at the Syrian Protestant College and later at Oxford.
Restoring Character and Credibility to Rhetoric
Outside the academy, the credibility of public speaking has
been greatly eroded thanks mainly to politicians and the
political
process.
Political
rhetoric
has
now
become
synonymous with broken promises, evasion, verbal attacks,
“spin,” “smoke and mirrors,” and other unsavoury practices.
The now stock phrase “empty rhetoric” has served to discredit
the spoken word. The negative effects of rhetoric were, of
course, far more sinister in the twentieth century than all the
tragi-comedies
witnessed
in
adversarial
party
politics.
Breneman observes: “After Hitler and Khomeini, after nearly a
century of sloganeering and totalitarianism, people are
suspicious of eloquence.”21 Verbal rants and harangues induced
the masses to follow Hitler and Mussolini. In December of
1978, in a quiet but menacing voice, the still exiled Ayatolláh
Khomeini said in an interview with Professor James Cockroft
of Rutgers University about the Bahá’ís: “They are a political
faction. They are harmful. They will not be accepted.” In the
same interview, he pronounced that religious freedom would
not be granted to the Bahá’ís in Iran.22 Since the Fall of 1978, a
systematic series of openly repressive measures has followed
which included the execution of some two hundred innocent
souls.23 More recently, in April of 1994, Hutu extremists
unleashed a genocide in which some 800,000 Tutsis were
slaughtered following radio appeals by Hutu leaders that
incited Hutus to “cleanse” Rawandan villages of their Tutsi
populations. (The genocide also created some two million
refugees). In the 1990’s and 2000’s, the suave talk of Osama bin
Laden called his followers to sow world-wide terror in the name
of Islam. Other examples of perverse rhetoric are not lacking in
today’s hostile and dangerous world.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Although Breneman argues for the rehabilitation of Plato’s
pedagogical and philosophical rhetoric as an ideal type of
rhetoric,24 Plato’s opinion of the rhetoric of his day was, as
Breneman has pointed out, nonetheless decidedly negative. The
philosopher’s views of the ancient art can be found, inter alia,
in his dialogues, the Sophist, Euthydemus, Gorgias and
Phaedrus.25 Plato charged that rhetoric had been widely abused
by corrupt politicians in ancient Athens, the same politicians
who had put Socrates to death by pandering to public fears,
unfounded prejudices and raw emotion.26 Both Plato and
Aristotle believed that rhetoric had become a money-making
technique in the hands of the rhetors and sophists who taught
public-speaking, and who were the speech-writers for aspiring
Athenian politicians and those who already governed the city-
state. Aside from the philosophical differences that they had
with rhetors and sophists,27 and in what seems today like a lot
of déjà vu, Plato and Aristotle believed that such men were
insincere and dishonest; that they engaged in equivocation,
quibbling and verbal tricks instead of truth-seeking. Only
honest dialectic, Plato thought, could lead to truth.28
However, Plato’s and Aristotle’s negative view of the
rhetoric of their time was also remedied by one of the
foundational principles of On Rhetoric: an ethical consistency
between speaker and speech, between word and deed. Aristotle
taught that the efficacy of the speech depended on the ethos
(nature/disposition/moral character) of the speaker. The rhetor
had to be “worthy of credence” which is “…almost, so to speak,
the controlling factor in persuasion” [On Rhetoric, 1356a4). Thus,
it was not in theory that rhetoric, the vehicle of power that
Longinus, the Greek literary critic, had called a “great prince”
in his noted treatise On the Sublime (peri hypsous), 30 had
become discredited, but rather through corrupt practices. In
our time, the never-ending corruption and scandal scenarios
that feed the media indicate that the precept of the orator’s
ethical credibility has been wantonly disregarded.
“The Perfect Orator is the Perfect Man”
Before validating Shoghi Effendi’s moral authority, it would
be helpful to further examine the background to the above
maxim. We have already noted that Aristotle advocated moral

The Art of Rhetoric
integrity as the mainstay of effective speech. “The perfect
orator is the perfect man” is one of the key ideas in Roman
oratory that was inherited from the Greeks. It was advocated
by the great Roman orator Cicero, and the famous teacher of
rhetoric, Quintilian (35-95 CE).
31 In his discussion of tropes
and figures, Quintilian influenced St. Augustine, St. Jerome
and Martin Luther.32 Although he is not generally known to the
public, Quintilian is still anthologized today and continues to
influence both rhetorical theory and the discussion of
figurative language, including post-structuralist and formalist
theorists.33
In his twelve-volume masterpiece, Institutio Oratoria,
Quintilian was preoccupied in Book I with the proper
education of the orator, virtually from birth. To his credit, in
advocating what is called today “child-centred education,” he
stressed the moral education of the child as being the most
crucial factor for the adult orator. The pedagogical questions
he raised in the first century CE are as relevant today to the
field of education as they are to oratory.34 Although Quintilian
stressed a thorough training in the literary arts and in
grammar, he favored exposure to many branches of knowledge,
and the widest culture possible, to produce a well-rounded
human being.35 Compared to modern approaches to education,
classical rhetoric was a more holistic, as well as a practical art.
Aristotle taught that it should convince by the triadic norms
of pathos (emotion),   thos (character) and logos (rational
argument) [1356a3,5], thereby fostering a healthy integration of
intellect, character and emotion.
Shoghi Effendi’s Credibility as Rhetorician
It follows, then, that the efficacy of Shoghi Effendi’s
rhetoric would depend on his moral authority. We are
fortunate that the Guardian’s historical proximity (1897-1957)
to our time renders it relatively easy to validate his ethical
credibility. Chief among the sources attesting to Shoghi
Effendi’s character are the Will and Testament of his
grandfather, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and Madame Rúhiyyíh Rabbaní’s
biography, The Priceless Pearl, which presents a vivid picture
and
analysis
of
the
Guardian’s
personality.
Several
appreciations have also been recorded by those who were his

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
working-assistants in Haifa, or who made the pilgrimage to
Akká and Haifa and met Shoghi Effendi on that occasion.36 The
most significant impressions of a non-Bahá’í are those
recorded in The Circle of Faith (1956), by former professor of
comparative religion and prolific author, Dr. Marcus Bach (d.
1995), through what John Barnabas (Barney) Leith accurately
calls “a detached but sympathetic eye.”37
These accounts of the Guardian’s life, character and
contributions to the development of the Formative Age of the
Bahá’í Faith (1921-) indicate a monumental legacy that has only
begun to be properly evaluated. While accounts written by
Bahá’ís are naturally biased by the love, devotion and respect of
the believer, Marcus Bach’s incisive pen-portrait was based on
a three-hour interview at Shoghi Effendi’s home in Haifa, on
the evening on February 12, 1953.38 Among Dr. Bach’s
impressions were those of “indomitable strength,” the sense
that this man was “self-possessed, self-sufficient, purposeful.”
Among other comments we read: his “all-seeing eyes always read
my thoughts in advance, whose sharp mind had a ready answer
the moment my questions were asked.” His words were “tinged
with poetry and power. He spoke in melodious, faultless
English, with a firm and staunch authority as if what he had to
say was said by divine right.” His words could be recorded, but
his faith was “something to be felt and cherished. His awareness
of God was paramount.”39

The Guardian’s moral credibility was created by divine
appointment through the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
but it does not rest in divine appointment alone. It was
reflected in his every word and act, through the subtle fibre of
his entire being. This moral authority creates confidence in the
reader and reinforces an “interlocking relationship”40 between
author, text and reader, giving his writing weight. Shoghi
Effendi was not, of course, a perfect man in the same sense
that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Mystery of God, was a perfect human
being.41 Shoghi Effendi’s own understanding of the Guardian
as being “essentially human” rules out any misconceived
comparisons of this type. In clarifying the station of the
Guardians, in contradistinction to that of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Shoghi Effendi wrote:

The Art of Rhetoric
Though overshadowed by the unfailing, the unerring
protection of Bahá’u’lláh and of the Báb, and however
much he may share with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the right and
obligation to interpret the Bahá’í teachings, he remains
essentially human and cannot, if he wishes to remain
faithful to his trust, arrogate to himself, under any
pretense whatsoever, the rights, the privileges and
prerogatives which Bahá’u’lláh has chosen to confer
upon His Son.42
Nonetheless, the reference to Shoghi Effendi’s “absolute
perfection” is from a statement by no less a figure than
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. When His grandson was born on March 1, 1897,
a Miss F. Drayton of New York wrote to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, citing a
verse from Isaiah 11:6 “…a little child shall lead them,” and
inquired whether or not this verse referred to a “…real living
child who exists?”43 His reply was unequivocal: “Thou shalt
behold him endowed with the most perfect appearance,
supreme capacity, absolute perfection, consummate power and
unsurpassed might. His face will shine with a radiance that
illuminates all the horizons of the world…”44 That hidden
identity was later fully revealed in the Will and Testament, and
it clearly established the Guardian’s preeminent station and
divine authority:
For he is, after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Guardian of the Cause
of God. The Afnan, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause
and the beloved of the Lord must obey him and turn
unto him. He that obeyeth him not, hath not obeyed
God; he that turneth away from him, hath turned away
from God and he that denieth him, hath denied the True
One.45
Among Shoghi Effendi’s duties and privileges of office was to
act as the sole authorized interpreter and expounder of Bahá’í
Holy Writ: “He is the Interpreter of the Word of God…”46 As I
am using it in relation to Shoghi Effendi, the word perfect
refers to an interaction of three distinct qualities: (1) divine
endowment or capacity, i.e., attributes that are God-given. (2)
striving, i.e., the sustained personal effort required to cultivate
one’s own innate abilities. (3) the lack of any deficiency or
defect in the exercise of his powers and abilities.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
In addition to naming him as His successor, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
first mention of Shoghi Effendi indicates that He is drawing
the reader’s attention to two important distinctions: (1)
Shoghi Effendi’s divine endowment as a direct descendant of
both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. (2) His youthfulness:
Salutation and praise, blessing and glory rest upon that
primal branch of the Divine and Sacred Lote-Tree,
grown out, blest, tender, verdant and flourishing from
the Twin Holy Trees; the most wondrous, unique and
priceless pearl that doth gleam from out the Twin
surging seas…47
(The poetic quality of this text is retained, even in translation,
not only in its rich natural imagery, but also because of the
internal rhyme of ‘Trees’ and ‘seas.’) A unique dynamic was
created in the combining of Shoghi Effendi’s kinship to the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh, with the divine attributes mentioned in the
text: “wondrous,” “unique,” “priceless.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expresses
a special solicitude for Shoghi Effendi’s well-being, thus
making the community aware of the youthfulness and
inexperience that would be in constant need of support and
protection: “tender, verdant and flourishing” is this primal
branch. Yet, Shoghi Effendi’s destiny was to work largely
alone, assisted by only a handful of trusted and capable co-
workers, as he continued to face the relentless opposition of
the members of his own family, who by all possible means
attempted to misguide the Bahá’ís, defy his authority, and to
obstruct his plans. Then, mixing His metaphors, and turning
from the pastoral image of the tree and the bough to the
gemstone, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares the Guardian to be a “priceless
pearl.” This well-known phrase constitutes a revelation of
Shoghi Effendi’s true station.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements are supplemented by a more
personal appreciation in The Priceless Pearl in which Madame
Rabbaní describes “Facets of Shoghi Effendi’s Personality.” In
one of the indexes, “Personal Attributes,” she has further
summarized his character by delineating his qualities under
three heads:48 (1) Spiritual and Mental Qualities (2) Artistic and
Cultural Tastes and Interests (3) Relations With Others. We
read under (1): “catholicity of spirit, humility, mastery of

The Art of Rhetoric
detail, orderliness, nobility, radiance, shrewdness” — this last
attribute she defines as “sense of economy, honesty, realism,
ingeniousness, practicality but lack of mechanical sense,” will-
power, object of his existence.” This last reference refers to his
complete consecration to the Bahá’í Faith. Under (2) are found:
“interest in gardens, maps, photography, zoology, love of
beauty in nature, zeal for knowledge.” Number (3) reads: “love
for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Greatest Holy Leaf, Milly Collins, Sutherland
Maxwell, “tribute to the support and comfort given by Martha
Root.” (Details and anecdotes of the headings are provided
through page references by the author).
Madame Rabbaní’s pen-portrait creates the impression of a
highly sensitive and gifted man, whose multi-faceted nature
entitled him to the label of genius; a man who laboured much
and suffered much, whose life manifested a rare combination
of exceptional ability, complete love and devotion to the
religion he directed, zeal for knowledge, an unusual capacity
for labor, an attitude of humility and self-effacement, an
intuitive
sense
of
divine
guidance,
and
a
complete
consecration to the many tasks with which the Will and
Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had entrusted him. While he was
not a prophet, Shoghi Effendi’s extraordinary humanity was
such that he was able to execute the duties of sacred office with
superhuman energy49 and flawless skill. Madame Rabbaní’s
comment gives a favorable and fair appraisal of the Guardian’s
overall contribution:
It would be hard indeed to find a comparable figure in
history who, in a little over a third of a century, set so
many different operations in motion, who found the
time to devote his attention to minute details on one
hand and on the other to cover the range of an entire
planet with his plans, his instructions, his guidance
and his leadership.50
The Rhetorical Function of Epistolary
I have written above that the practical aim of the Guardian’s
letters was, not only to inform and to educate, but also to
move the Bahá’ís to execute the various sequential plans that he
had devised for the world-wide expansion of the Bahá’í Faith.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Rhetorical criticism sheds further light on Shoghi Effendi’s use
of rhetoric to fulfill this aim. Edward P.J. Corbett wrote that
rhetorical criticism “…is interested in the product, the process,
and the effect of linguistic activity, whether the imaginative
kind or the utilitarian kind.”51 Rhetorical criticism looks to the
immediate effect of a work rather than to other literary
considerations.52 Jane Tompkins, editor of an instructive work
on Reader-Response Theory, of which rhetorical criticism is a
major component, writes that the rhetorical mode looks upon
literature as “….existing primarily in order to produce results
and not as an end in itself.”53 In this sense, rhetorical prose
creates
a
close
bond
between
the
author
and
the
reader/audience, compared with the larger spaces created by
more imaginative texts. The Guardian’s letters were certainly
performative since they anticipated an immediate response to
his directives. They were not written primarily as esthetic
products, as Ars gratiae artis (art for art’s sake).
Aristotle viewed the rhetoric of persuasion (pistis) as one of
the practical arts, more concerned with acting and doing than
the rational and speculative arts and sciences, such as
metaphysics and mathematics.54 While the Guardian’s writings
clearly have their own literary, historical, spiritual and
theological merits, they remain, nonetheless, an exercise in the
practical and the functional. Shoghi Effendi’s writings are
always designed to do something: to deepen understanding, to
define doctrine, to defend the Faith, to interpret history, to
report, to comment on the significance of current events and
developments in light of the Bahá’í Faith, to move the reader’s
heart or to exhort to action.
Except for his Heilsgeschichte (salvation/sacred history) of
the first hundred years of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faith, God Passes By
(1944), and his thousands of cablegrams, his writings are largely
epistolary. Dr. Ann Boyles, in her paper “The Epistolary Style
of Shoghi Effendi,” points out that the differences between the
letter and the epistle have to do with both content and style.
While an epistle is theoretically any letter, the epistle is “…a
conscious literary form” which concerns itself with “…public
matters and with philosophy as well as with religious
problems.”55 Several judicious reasons validate the Guardian’s
chosen medium. The epistle creates a bond of intimacy and

The Art of Rhetoric
sense of collaboration between reader and author that is not
characteristic of other genres. Despite their elevated tone, and
his preeminence as the head of a growing world religion, his
letters create an intimate bond between Shoghi Effendi and his
readers. His epistolary succeeds well at fostering a sense of
fraternal collaboration. (see below, “Loving Greetings” under
Particular Rhetorical Techniques)

William Decker has pointed out in his Epistolary Practices
(1998) that letter writing “….assumes the existence of a certain
confidentiality as its enabling condition.”56 Letters, he writes,
“…have long been read as primary sources of biography and
history, as texts brimming with informational content. Yet the
performative, fictive, and textual dimensions of letter writing,
and the artifacticity of the personally inscribed holograph,57
have only recently attracted serious notice.”58 Regarding this
sense of epistolary intimacy or confidentiality, it should be
kept in mind that through his estimated 26,000 letters,59 Shoghi
Effendi was writing, not only to individuals but to a faith
community that constitutes a people, “the people of Bahá” (Ar.
Ahl-i-Bahá).60 Any faith community is a live audience, and
Decker’s “performative” mention of the epistle underscores the
direct, transformational potential of the letter on the
audience.
Seven Rhetorical Modes in the Writings of
Shoghi Effendi
In Chapter 3 of Book 1 of On Rhetoric, Aristotle gives three
categories of suasive discourse: (1) the political (deliberative)
which aimed at adopting or avoiding a policy or course of
action.
(2) the forensic (legal) which was used to accuse or
defend someone in a court of law. (3) the epideictic, which was
the ceremonial praise or blame of an individual.
While the
general features of Aristotle’s three types have been subsumed
in Shoghi Effendi’s rhetoric, the philosopher’s categories
cannot be applied holus-bolus to our author. This is because
his
Bahá’í-specific,
religious
discourse
necessitates
the
assigning of other categories than the political and legal ones
used by Aristotle. But, as is often the case in category
assignments, distinctions are not always clear-cut. The

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Guardian’s voices, like his genres, are mixed.61 For example,
proclamatory/kerygmatic rhetoric may be followed by the
divine command; the imperative may show deliberation;
defence may mingle with praise. However, to further elucidate
the Guardian’s oratorical style, the following seven modes are
being proposed: (1) the proclamatory/kerygmatic (2) the
imperative (3) the magisterial (4) the defensive (5) the rhetoric of
praise and gratitude (6) the rhetoric of blame (7) the rhetoric of
anxious concern. Aristotle’s categories are recognizable in
these seven modes, but they appear in a different language and
context.
(1) The Kerygmatic/Proclamation Mode: Raising the
Divine Call
Derived from the Greek verb kerussein, “to proclaim,”
kerygma is a specifically religious type of rhetoric that was
originally associated with the preaching of the early church. In
twentieth century Protestant theology, it became a technical
term that established the foundations of Christian teaching on
the coming, life, death and resurrection of Christ in fulfilment
of the divinely appointed new age/time, the kairos of Mark
1:15, proclaimed by John the Baptist and promised by the
prophets of Israel and Judah.62 For Bahá’í purposes, this mode
is naturally devoid of its specific Judeo-Christian content, but
it suits nonetheless the urgency and drama of the divine call,
whether it summoned the Bahá’ís to fulfil the goals that Shoghi
Effendi had set, made a historic announcement, or proclaimed
a “victory” won. Here, for example, is the Guardian’s
cablegram of January 9, 1951 that announced the formation of
the First International Bahá’í Council, the forerunner of the
Universal House of Justice (1963-), a body that was to “forge
links with the newly emerged State” (Israel), to assist the
Guardian with the erection of the superstructure of the Shrine
of the Báb, and “to conduct negotiations related to matters of
personal status with civil authorities”:
Proclaim National Assemblies of East and West
weighty epoch-making decision of formation of first
International Bahá’í Council, forerunner of supreme
administrative institution destined to emerge in
fullness of time within precincts beneath shadow of

The Art of Rhetoric
World Spiritual Center of Faith already established in
twin cities of Akká and Haifa. Fulfillment of
prophecies uttered by Founder of Faith and Center of
His Covenant culminating in establishment of Jewish
State, signalizing birth after lapse of two thousand
years of an independent nation in the Holy Land, the
swift unfoldment of historic undertaking associated
with construction of superstructure of the Báb’s
Sepulcher on Mount Carmel, the present adequate
maturity of nine vigorously functioning national
administrative institutions throughout Bahá’í World,
combine to induce me to arrive at this historic
decision marking most significant milestone in
evolution of Administrative Order of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh in course of last thirty years.63
The call to action is intrinsic to kerygmatic rhetoric. The
noted Canadian literary critic Northrop Frye (1912-1991)
observed that “the rhetoric of non-literary prose,” non-literary
meaning not deriving primarily from the imagination, invokes
the realm of “social action” and “…the appeal to action through
the ear…”64:
The most concentrated examples of this [“social or
oratorical persuasion”] are to be found in the
pamphlet or speech that catches the rhythm of history,
that seizes on a crucial event or phase of action,
interprets it, articulates the emotions concerned with
it, or in some means employs a verbal structure to
insulate and conduct the current of history.65
Among others, Frye cites Churchill’s 1940 war speeches,
Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address and Milton’s Areopagitica as
examples of this genre.66 Although his writings belong to an
expanded, higher order of religious epistolary, Shoghi Effendi’s
world
order
letters
(1929-36),
and
his
apocalypse
of
contemporary history, The Promised Day Is Come (1941), and
Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957 may be generally
included, mutatis mutandis, within Frye’s description. The call
to action is found throughout the numerous appeals that
accompanied the launching of every new stage of the Teaching
Plan. That Shoghi Effendi hoped to arouse the Bahá’ís to action

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
was his stated purpose, emphatically expressed. The word
“action” continually punctuated his messages:67 “My heart
yearns to learn of any speedy and effective action which the
valiant members of that community may determine, whether
collectively or severally, to undertake.”68 His secretary wrote on
his behalf: “He is convinced, that the friends will arise and
translate their enthusiasm into Action, because the keynote of
the Crusade, must be Action, Action, Action!”69 In April 1957,
not quite at midpoint in the “world-embracing Spiritual
Crusade”
(1953-63),
which
he
conceived
to
establish
Bahá’u’lláh’s “spiritual dominion” throughout the world,
Shoghi Effendi wrote the following appeal. It contained the
historical reminder that the task at hand required the same
dedication that fired the apostles of the Báb at the three week
conference of Badasht, held between June and July of 1848:
I appeal, as I close this review of the superb feats
already accomplished, in the course of so many
campaigns, by the heroic band of the warriors of
Bahá’u’lláh, battling in His Name and by His aid for
the
purification,
the
unification
and
the
spiritualization of a morally and spiritually bankrupt
society, now hovering on the brink of self-destruction,
for a renewed dedication, at this critical hour in the
fortunes of mankind, on the part of the entire
company of my spiritual brethren in every continent of
the globe, to the high ideals of the Cause they have
espoused, as well as to the immediate accomplishment
of the goals of the Crusade on which they have
embarked, be they in active service or not, of either sex,
young as well as old, rich or poor, whether veteran or
newly enrolled — a dedication reminiscent of the
pledges which the Dawn-breakers of an earlier
Apostolic Age, assembled in conference at Badasht,
and faced with issues of a different but equally
challenging nature, willingly and solemnly made for the
prosecution of the collective task with which they were
confronted.70
Northrop Frye also indicated that the rhetoric of persuasion,
with its call to social action, “…must have either a rallying
point or a point of attack, or both.”71 The rallying point in

The Art of Rhetoric
Shoghi Effendi’s stirring appeals was, just as it is now under
the direction of the Universal House of Justice, the pressing
need to fulfill the goals of the Teaching Plan. Here is one
example among many of a rallying cry, one that is at the same
time a “plea” that contains its own word of warning:
Once again — and this time more fervently than ever
before — I direct my plea to every single member of this
strenuously laboring, clear-visioned, stout-hearted,
spiritually endowed community, every man and
woman, on whose individual efforts, resolution, self-
sacrifice and perseverance the immediate destinies of
the Faith of God, now traversing so crucial a stage in
its rise and establishment, primarily depends, not to
allow, through apathy, timidity or complacency, this
one remaining opportunity to be irretrievably lost. I
would rather entreat each and every one of them to
immortalize this approaching, fateful hour in the
evolution of a World Spiritual Crusade, by a fresh
consecration to their God-given mission, coupled with
an instantaneous plan of action, at once so dynamic
and decisive, as to wipe out, on the one hand, with one
stroke, the deficiencies which have, to no small extent,
bogged down the operations of the Crusade on the
home front, and tremendously accelerate, on the other,
the progress of the triple task, launched, in three
continents, and constituting one of its preeminent
objectives.72
(2) The Imperative Mode: The Work of Consolidation
The imperative mode takes many forms but all of them speak
the language of the unconditional. Kerygma demands an
immediate response: the divine command must be executed. In
the following message, Shoghi Effendi urged the Bahá’ís to
consolidate the goals won during the first three years of the Ten
Year Plan (1953-63). “The prizes so arduously won” could not
be forfeited:
The
glorious
and
stupendous
work
already
accomplished, singly and collectively, in the course of
three brief years, in five continents of the globe and the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
islands of the seas, both at home and abroad, in the
teaching as well as the administrative spheres of Bahá’í
activity must, as the army of Bahá’u’lláh’s crusaders
marches forward into new and vaster fields to capture
still greater heights, never be jeopardized or allowed to
lag or suffer a setback. The prizes so arduously won
should not only be jealously preserved but should be
constantly enriched. Far from suffering the long and
distinguished record of feats which have been achieved
to be tarnished, assiduous efforts must be exerted to
ennoble it with every passing day.
The newly opened territories of the globe must, under
no circumstances, be allowed to relapse into the state
of spiritual deprivation from which they have so
recently and laboriously been rescued. Nay, the highly
edifying evidences proclaiming the expansion and the
consolidation of the superb historic work achieved in
so many of these territories must be rapidly multiplied.
The local assemblies that have been so diligently and
patiently established must under no circumstances be
allowed to dissolve, or their foundations be in any way
endangered. The mighty and steady process involving
the increase in the number of the avowed supporters of
the Faith, and the multiplication of isolated centers,
groups and local assemblies must, throughout this
newly opened phase of the Plan, be markedly
accelerated.73
(3) The Magisterial Mode:

(a) The Unity of Religions

(b) The Administrative Order

As already mentioned, Shoghi Effendi’s discourse is strongly
performative. His letters are filled with exhortations, appeals,
pleas,
warnings,
condemnations,
caveats,
directives,
objectives, plans, and strategies for winning teaching goals. All
these discourse acts are profoundly heart-felt, expressed with
deep unction.74 Another of the dominant voices in our author’s
writings is that of the great teacher, deriving from the
Guardian role as the only appointed interpreter and expounder

The Art of Rhetoric
of the Bahá’í sacred writings, its history and Administrative
Order in its Formative Age (1921-). This voice uses a more
formal, authoritative reason, and carries with it an
apocalyptic certitude. Its closest philosophical equivalent is the
Aristotlean apodictic proposition (apodeiktikos), meaning one
that is self-evident, certain or necessarily true. 75 On his own
terms, he referred to his doctrinal clarifications in The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh (1934) as “the fundamental verities
of the Faith.”76 However, the Guardian did not expound fine
points of doctrine. Rather, in order to maintain doctrinal
unity, he established fundamentals, basic orientations that are
coherent with Bahá’í teaching that could be integrally preserved
and handed down. Necessarily, this also meant excluding
erroneous ideas that were not coherent with the religion’s
teachings.
Theologically,
Shoghi
Effendi’s
interpretations
or
expositions have the effect of dogma, meant here in its non-
pejorative sense of a non-negotiable, normative teaching that is
received on the basis of divine revelation and legitimate
authority. The Bahá’í Faith has an unusual theological stance in
that the Guardian’s writings, as for those of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, are
not ipso facto divine revelation,77 but they carry the same
authority. The authorised interpretation, while it does not
share the preeminent station of the Revealed Word, must be
accorded an equal reception by the community. (This is similar
to the standpoint of Shiah Islam by which the interpretations
of the imams are believed to be infallible and are accorded
virtual equality with the Qur’án). This does not mean, however,
that our author’s theological definitions must be accepted
without question, i.e. silence. The Guardian was no technical
philosopher, and according to Madame Rabbaní, he loathed
abstractions.78 His interpretations and elucidations are generally
not matter for abstract, speculative, theological discussions,
but as positive theology,79 they are liable to further analysis.
Two texts follow. The first is theological and uses a type of
authoritative reason in the form of a caveat that advocates a
qualified and guarded interpretation of the coming of
Bahá’u’lláh as “the Promised One of all ages,” and the
inauguration of the Bahá’í cycle as “the culmination of a
prophetic cycle”:80

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Nor does the Bahá’í Revelation, claiming as it does to
be the culmination of a prophetic cycle and the
fulfilment of the promise of all ages, attempt, under
any circumstances, to invalidate those first and
everlasting principles that animate and underlie the
religions that have preceded it. The God-given
authority, vested in each one of them, it admits and
establishes as its firmest and ultimate basis. It regards
them in no other light except as different stages in the
eternal history and constant evolution of one religion,
Divine and indivisible, of which it itself forms but an
integral part. It neither seeks to obscure their Divine
origin, nor to dwarf the admitted magnitude of their
colossal achievements. It can countenance no attempt
that seeks to distort their features or to stultify the
truths which they instill. Its teachings do not deviate a
hairbreadth from the verities they enshrine, nor does
the weight of its message detract one jot or one tittle
from the influence they exert or the loyalty they inspire.
Far from aiming at the overthrow of the spiritual
foundation of the world’s religious systems, its
avowed, its unalterable purpose is to widen their basis,
to restate their fundamentals, to reconcile their aims,
to reinvigorate their life, to demonstrate their oneness,
to restore the pristine purity of their teachings, to co-
ordinate their functions and to assist in the realization
of their highest aspirations. These divinely-revealed
religions, as a close observer has graphically expressed
it, “are doomed not to die, but to be reborn… ‘Does
not the child succumb in the youth and the youth in the
man; yet neither child nor youth perishes?’81
The second text outlines the political theory on which the
Administrative Order as a system of government is based. This
passage maintains that the Administrative Order is a unique
salutary blend of the existing forms of government, both
secular [democratic, autocratic, aristocratic] and theocratic
[imamate, caliphate, Hebrew Commonwealth, papacy], while
excluding their “objectionable features.” Only the general
argument is given here:

The Art of Rhetoric
This new-born Administrative Order incorporates
within its structure certain elements which are to be
found in each of the three recognized forms of secular
government, without being in any sense a mere replica
of any one of them, and without introducing within
its machinery any of the objectionable features which
they inherently possess. It blends and harmonizes, as
no government fashioned by mortal hands has as yet
accomplished, the salutary truths which each of these
systems undoubtedly contains without vitiating the
integrity of those God-given verities on which it is
ultimately founded…. Whereas this Administrative
Order cannot be said to have been modeled after any of
these recognized systems of government, it nevertheless
embodies, reconciles and assimilates within its
framework such wholesome elements as are to be found
in each one of them. The hereditary authority which the
Guardian is called upon to exercise, the vital and
essential functions which the Universal House of
Justice discharges, the specific provisions requiring its
democratic election by the representatives of the
faithful — these combine to demonstrate the truth that
this divinely revealed Order, which can never be
identified with any of the standard types of
government referred to by Aristotle in his works,
embodies and blends with the spiritual verities on
which it is based the beneficent elements which are to
be found in each one of them.82
(4) The Defensive Mode:

(a) The Báb’s Station

(b) Attacks on the Bahá’í Faith
The defensive mode originates in the law courts and political
assemblies of fifth century Greece (BCE). Its model text is
Plato’s Apology of Socrates’ defence before the Athenian
assembly. Since then, defence with advocacy have become the
twin functions of apologia. Although apologetics was for
centuries one of the recognized disciplines in theology, with the
progressive secularization of contemporary society, this
engaged, faith-driven approach has fallen out of favour, except

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
for confessional colleges and universities, since it has been
rejected for its polemical, dogmatic, and authoritarian
motives, and has been replaced with so-called “objective,”
value-neutral,
historical/social-scientific
treatments
of
religion. Despite its being contrary to academic fashion, the
apologetic voice can be clearly heard in the writings of the
Guardian. The defensive mode takes basically two forms: (1)
theoretical: as the advocacy, defence or explanation of a
doctrinal point. (2) actual: as “defender of the Faith,” Shoghi
Effendi defended both the Bahá’ís and the Bahá’í Faith from
attacks and advocated strategies for countering such assaults.
The following passage from The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
exemplifies point (1). Its main purpose is to uphold the station
of the Báb and to protect it from erosion. He admonishes his
readers not to reduce the Báb’s station merely to that of “an
inspired Precursor of the Bahá’í Revelation.” He is to be
understood, rather, as “the object of all the Prophets gone
before Him.” Consequently, comparisons to John the Baptist
should not be used without qualification:
That
the
Báb,
the
inaugurator
of
the
Bábí
Dispensation, is fully entitled to rank as one of the self-
sufficient Manifestations of God, that He has been
invested with sovereign power and authority, and
exercises all the rights and prerogatives of independent
Prophethood, is yet another fundamental verity which
the Message of Bahá’u’lláh insistently proclaims and
which its followers must uncompromisingly uphold.
That He is not to be regarded merely as an inspired
Precursor of the Bahá’í Revelation, that in His person,
as He Himself bears witness in the Persian Bayán, the
object of all the Prophets gone before Him has been
fulfilled, is a truth which I feel it my duty to
demonstrate and emphasize. We would assuredly be
failing in our duty to the Faith we profess and would
be violating one of its basic and sacred principles if in
our words or by our conduct we hesitate to recognize
the implications of this root principle of Bahá’í belief,
or refuse to uphold unreservedly its integrity and
demonstrate its truth. 83

The Art of Rhetoric
(2) During the 1955 “premeditated campaign” of persecution
of the Bahá’ís of Iran, Shoghi Effendi exposed the several crimes
committed against the Bahá’í community,84 and also directed
measures whereby the Bahá’í International Community could
assist its persecuted co-religionists. His announcement of the
persecution and its historical significance was fully developed
in a detailed letter of August 20, 1955. In announcing the crisis
he wrote:
With dramatic suddenness, a situation, which had
been slowly and secretly developing, came to a head, as
the result of the ceaseless intrigue of the fanatical and
determined ecclesiastical opponents of the Faith, ever
ready to seize their chance, in times of confusion, and
to strike mercilessly, at an opportune hour, at the very
root of that Faith and of its swiftly developing,
steadily consolidating administrative institutions.85
He immediately devised a series of counter-measures to
alleviate the suffering of the Iranian Bahá’ís, and called upon
the American Bahá’í Community to compensate for the losses
suffered by their middle-eastern co-religionists by widening
their teaching efforts and rededicating themselves to the goals
of the Ten Year Plan:
Faced with this organized and vicious onslaught on the
followers, the fundamental verities, the shrines and
administrative institutions of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh
in the land of His birth, the American Bahá’í
Community cannot at this hour relax for a moment in
the discharge of the multiple and sacred responsibilities
it has pledged itself to fulfill under the Ten-Year Plan
and must indeed display a still greater degree of
consecration and a nobler spirit of self-sacrifice in the
pursuit of the goals it has set itself to achieve.86
(5) Praise and Gratitude: North America’s World-
Historical Identity
The rhetoric of praise and gratitude has three basic types in
our author’s writings: (1) as prayer-like expressions of
thanksgiving to God and to Bahá’u’lláh. (2) to praise
individuals, either living or dead, for their services. (3) to laud

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
the historic achievements of national communities. Here are
two examples of type (1) sent as cablegrams:
Acclaim
with
grateful
heart,
on
twenty-first
Anniversary of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Ascension, the glorious
emergence
of
the
firmly-welded,
incorruptible
American Bahá’í community from severest crisis since
His passing which the blindness of the breakers of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Covenants has, amidst
His kindred, and in the City of the Covenant, recently
tragically precipitated….
…Heart aglow with pride, love, gratitude for superb
achievement of completion of exterior of the House of
Worship, Mother Temple of the West. Bahá’u’lláh’s
high behest, enshrined in His Most Holy Book, has been
brilliantly executed.87
As for type (2), here is one of the Guardian’s tributes to the
peerless “Leading Ambassadress of His Faith and Pride of
Bahá’í teachers,” Miss Martha Root:
Nor can I dismiss this subject without singling out for
special reference her who, not only through her
preponderating share in initiating measures for the
translation and dissemination of Bahá’í literature, but
above all through her prodigious and indeed unique
exertions in the international teaching field, has
covered herself with a glory that has not only eclipsed
the achievements of the teachers of the Faith among her
contemporaries the globe around, but has outshone the
feats accomplished by any of its propagators in the
course of an entire century. To Martha Root, that
archetype of Bahá’í itinerant teachers and the foremost
Hand raised by Bahá’u’lláh since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
passing, must be awarded, if her manifold services and
the supreme act of her life are to be correctly
appraised, the title of Leading Ambassadress of His
Faith and Pride of Bahá’í teachers, whether men or
women, in both the East and the West.88
The best example of type (3) is Shoghi Effendi’s multi-page
epideictic of high praise to the North American Bahá’í

The Art of Rhetoric
community in The Advent of Divine Justice (1939).89 The
Guardian’s eulogy is not just praise for the sake of praise. A
larger, creative process is at work: the creation of a world-
historical identity, one that is based on the historical
accomplishments of the North American Bahá’ís to 1939, and
the conferring of their global mission by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The
section “Chief Remaining Citadel” opens with a major
statement on the mission and station of the North America
believers. These are the main points: (1) North America “bids
fair” to become the “cradle” and the “stronghold” of the “New
World Order.” (2) To reach his conclusions, Shoghi Effendi has
relied, not only on the internal evidence of American Bahá’í
history, but also on the principle of divine election based on
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prophecy:
The continent of America is, in the eyes of the one true
God, the land wherein the splendors of His light shall be
revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith shall be
unveiled, where the righteous will abide, and the free
assemble.
(3) This prophecy has been already partially fulfilled, but will
be fully disclosed only in “…the light of the glory of the Golden
Age of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.” North America is the land that
has been singled out and is “…preserved by the immutable
decrees of the omnipotent Ordainer” and derives “…continual
sustenance from the mandate which the Tablets of the Divine
Plan have invested it.” These believers are laying the
groundwork for the future World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. (4)
Shoghi Effendi links East and West by declaring that the North
American Bahá’ís are “…the spiritual descendants of the dawn-
breakers of an heroic Age,” but unlike the martyrs of Persia
they must become a “living sacrifice” whose fruit shall be
“…that promised World Order, the shell ordained to enshrine
that priceless jewel, the world civilization, of which the Faith
itself is the sole begetter.” A further link is made. The martyrs
of Persia have begotten the Administrative Order: “Its seed is
the blood of no less than twenty thousand martyrs who have
offered up their lives that it may be born and flourish.”90 (In a
former dispensation, this statement parallels Tertullian’s
saying that “the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the
church”91). (5) In π5 of the section, the Guardian makes the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
preamble to his eulogy. Along the lines of Arnold Tonybee’s
“challenge and response” factor in making history, 92 the
preamble records the accomplishments of the North American
Bahá’ís, despite the several obstacles and handicaps that
confronted them. Each clause addresses a particular handicap
or obstacle that has been faced and successfully overcome:
A community, relatively negligible in its numerical
strength; separated by vast distances from both the
focal-center of its Faith and the land wherein the
preponderating mass of its fellow-believers reside;
bereft in the main of material resources and lacking in
experience and in prominence; ignorant of the beliefs,
concepts and habits of those peoples and races from
which its spiritual Founders have sprung; wholly
unfamiliar with the languages in which its sacred Books
were originally revealed; constrained to place its sole
reliance upon an inadequate rendering of only a
fragmentary portion of the literature embodying its
laws, its tenets, and its history; subjected from its
infancy to tests of extreme severity, involving, at
times, the defection of some of its most prominent
members; having to contend, ever since its inception,
and in an ever-increasing measure, with the forces of
corruption, of moral laxity, and ingrained prejudice —
such a community, in less than half a century, and
unaided by any of its sister communities, whether in
the East or in the West, has, by virtue of the celestial
potency
with
which
an
all-loving
Master
has
abundantly endowed it, lent an impetus to the onward
march of the Cause it has espoused which the combined
achievements of its coreligionists in the West have
failed to rival.93
Then Shoghi Effendi enters into the heart of his eulogy, a text
that is framed by no less than thirteen rhetorical questions
without a single paragraph break:
What other community, it can confidently be asked,
has been instrumental in fixing the pattern, and in
imparting the original impulse, to those administrative
institutions that constitute the vanguard of the World

The Art of Rhetoric
Order of Bahá’u’lláh? What other community has been
capable of demonstrating, with such consistency, the
resourcefulness, the discipline, the iron determination,
the zeal and perseverance, the devotion and fidelity, so
indispensable to the erection and the continued
extension of the framework within which those nascent
institutions can alone multiply and mature? What
other community has proved itself to be fired by so
noble a vision, or willing to rise to such heights of self-
sacrifice, or ready to achieve so great a measure of
solidarity, as to be able to raise, in so short a time and
in the course of such crucial years, an edifice that can
well deserve to be regarded as the greatest contribution
ever made by the West to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh?
What other community can justifiably lay claim to
have succeeded, through the unsupported efforts of
one
of
its
humble
members,
in
securing
the
spontaneous allegiance of Royalty to its Cause, and in
winning such marvelous and written testimonies to its
truth? What other community has shown the foresight,
the organizing ability, the enthusiastic eagerness, that
have been responsible for the establishment and
multiplication, throughout its territory, of those
initial schools which, as time goes by, will, on the one
hand, evolve into powerful centers of Bahá’í learning,
and, on the other, provide a fertile recruiting ground
for the enrichment and consolidation of its teaching
force? What other community has produced pioneers
combining to such a degree the essential qualities of
audacity, of consecration, of tenacity, of self-
renunciation, and unstinted devotion, that have
prompted them to abandon their homes, and forsake
their all, and scatter over the surface of the globe, and
hoist in its uttermost corners the triumphant banner
of Bahá’u’lláh? Who else but the members of this
community have won the eternal distinction of being
the first to raise the call of Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá in such
highly important and widely scattered centers and
territories as the hearts of both the British and French
empires, Germany, the Far East, the Balkan States, the
Scandinavian countries, Latin America, the Islands of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
the Pacific, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand,
and now more recently the Baltic States? Who else but
those same pioneers have shown themselves ready to
undertake the labor, to exercise the patience, and to
provide the funds, required for the translation and
publication, in no less than forty languages, of their
sacred literature, the dissemination of which is an
essential prerequisite to any effectively organized
campaign of teaching? What other community can lay
claim to have had a decisive share in the worldwide
efforts that have been exerted for the safeguarding and
the extension of the immediate surroundings of its holy
shrines, as well as for the preliminary acquisition of the
future sites of its international institutions at its
world center? What other community can to its eternal
credit claim to have been the first to frame its national
and local constitutions, thereby laying down the
fundamental lines of the twin charters designed to
regulate the activities, define the functions, and
safeguard the rights, of its institutions? What other
community can boast of having simultaneously
acquired and legally secured the basis of its national
endowments, thus paving the way for a similar action
on the part of its local communities? What other
community has achieved the supreme distinction of
having obtained, long before any of its sister
communities had envisaged such a possibility, the
necessary documents assuring the recognition, by both
the federal and state authorities, of its Spiritual
Assemblies and national endowments? And finally what
other community has had the privilege, and been
granted the means, to succor the needy, to plead the
cause of the downtrodden, and to intervene so
energetically for the safeguarding of Bahá’í edifices and
institutions in countries such as Persia, Egypt, Iraq,
Russia, and Germany, where, at various times, its
fellow-believers have had to suffer the rigors of both
religious and racial persecution?94
Each rhetorical question becomes, in fact, not a question,
but a statement that identifies one particular facet of a
distinguished
history.
Each
question
provides
vital

The Art of Rhetoric
information that invites further investigation by historians:
“To appraise correctly their value [“these manifold services”],
and dilate on their merits and immediate consequences, is a
task which only a future Bahá’í historian can properly
discharge.”95 (This atypical use of the rhetorical question will be
considered below under “Particular Rhetorical Techniques”).
(6) The Rhetoric of Blame: Denunciation of
Covenant-Breakers
Although he was liberal in his praise, Shoghi Effendi
sometimes found it necessary to blame. Although his
denunciations were often aimed at “…the standards, the habits,
and the excesses of a decadent age,”96 the condemnations were
occasionally personal. The rhetoric of blame accompanied the
expulsion of a small group of ex-Bahá’ís known as covenant-
breakers. Despite their few numbers, the covenant-beakers were
a wily and desperate group who, first secretly, then openly, had
defied Bahá’u’lláh’s, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s or Shoghi Effendi’s
authority, had attempted to discredit, harm and/or injure
them, to divide the community, and to create a following for
themselves. Using a medical analogy, the Guardian referred to
covenant-breaking as a “virus of violation,”97 a phrase that
indicates both its dangerous and contagious qualities. The
metaphor is apt because covenant-breaking is a potentially
fatal spiritual disease that strikes at the very heart of Bahá’í
teaching, government, community life and the sanity of the
mind and soul.
In the following passages, Shoghi Effendi denounces the
Iranians Avarih, Fareed and Falah. His condemnation reminds
us that divine punishment, even though it may disturb the
modern reader, and makes for unpopular theology, is one
manifestation of divine justice. To make an object lesson of
such individuals, the Guardian recorded the devastating effects
on those who had attempted to usurp the religion’s leadership
and destroy its unity. These attacks, although they failed, caused
acute suffering to the Guardian, and to Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá before him, and set back or impeded the faith’s progress:
Following the successive blows which fell with dramatic
swiftness two years ago upon the ring-leaders of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
fast dwindling band of old Covenant-breakers at the
World Center of the Faith, God’s avenging hand struck
down in the last two months, Avarih, Fareed and Falah,
within the cradle of the Faith, North America and Turkey,
who demonstrated varying degrees, in the course of
over thirty years, of faithlessness to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The first of the above named will be condemned by
posterity as being the most shameless, vicious,
relentless apostate in the annals of the Faith, who,
through
ceaseless
vitriolic
attacks
in
recorded
voluminous writings and close alliance with its
traditional enemies, assiduously schemed to blacken its
name and subvert the foundations of its institutions.
The second, history will recognize as one of the most
perfidious among the kinsmen of the interpreters of the
Center of the Covenant, who, driven by ungovernable
cupidity, committed acts causing agonies of grief and
distress to the beloved Master and culminating in open
association with breakers of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant in
the Holy Land.
The third will be chiefly remembered by the pride,
obstinacy and insatiable ambition impelling him to
violate the spiritual and administrative precepts of the
Faith.
All three, however blinded by perversity, could not have
failed
to
perceive,
as
their
infamous
careers
approached their end, the futility of their opposition
and measure their own loss by the degree of progress
and consolidation of the triumphant administrative
order so magnificently celebrated in the course of the
festivities of the recently concluded Holy Year.98
Shoghi Effendi’s entire letter of October 17, 1927 to the
National Spiritual Assemblies throughout the West presents
‘Abdu’l-Óusayn Avarih’s futile attempt to undermine the
Bahá’í Faith and records his downfall. Avarih is presented as a
once respected historian and itinerant lecturer who became
deluded by his own monstrous pride and ambition. Among his
other crimes, Avarih attacked the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh,
denounced the originality of the Bahá’í teachings, questioned

The Art of Rhetoric
the authenticity of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament, and
sought to overthrow the Bahá’í Administration. He conspired
with Christian missionaries in Persia, and a hostile Muslim
clergy, and sought to discredit the Bahá’ís in the eyes of “…the
highest dignitaries of the State”99 with the old charge that they
were rebellious enemies of the state and the wreckers of Islam.
However, Avarih seriously underestimated the strength and
solidarity of the Bahá’í institutions and the discernment of
those who were able to see through the mask of this “sordid and
treacherous mind.”100 He lived to see the utter collapse of his
egomaniacal projects:
Shunned by the entire body of the believers, abandoned
by his life-long and most intimate friends, deserted by
his wife, separated from his only child, refused
admittance into even his own home, denied of the
profit he hoped to derive from the sale and circulation
of his book, he found to his utter amazement and
remorse his best hopes irretrievably shattered.101
The distinguished comparative religionist Ninian Smart
(1925-2000), in a book that investigates the language of moral
discourse in religion, makes the point that the use of praise
and/or blame is not just to congratulate or condemn someone
as being either “good” or “bad.” Such value-judgments also
reflect the norms of the religion. Applying Smart’s logic to
Shoghi Effendi epideictic, those who read the condemnation of
Avarih had their identity as faithful believers reinforced. At the
same time, the condemnation would have served as warning to
the wavering and punishment to the faithless:
One main function of praise or blame is to get people
to do the right things and to refrain from the wrong
things: it is then a form (usually but not always the
mildest form) of reward and punishment. As such its
purposes are controlled by the rules and valuations held
to be correct.102
I alluded above to Northrop Frye’s mention of the need for a
“rallying point” and/or “point of attack” in the rhetoric of
social action. As for the “point of attack,” Shoghi Effendi
excelled when thundering against the evils of the age. His
denunciations are a modern revoicing of the ancient prophetic

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
protest. The following passage decries the senseless worship of
the three “false gods,” “the triple gods,” “the chief idols” of the
age, gods which have exacted the tragic deaths of millions of
souls in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. While this
passage is noteworthy for its iconoclastic stigmatization of
three forms of secularism as modern-day idol worship, it is no
less remarkable for its rhetorical properties:
This vital force [religion] is dying out, this mighty
agency has been scorned, this radiant light obscured,
this impregnable stronghold abandoned, this beauteous
robe discarded. God Himself has indeed been
dethroned from the hearts of men, and an idolatrous
world passionately and clamorously hails and worships
the false gods which its own idle fancies have fatuously
created, and its misguided hands so impiously exalted.
The chief idols in the desecrated temple of mankind are
none other than the triple gods of Nationalism,
Racialism
and
Communism,
at
whose
altars
governments and peoples, whether democratic or
totalitarian, at peace or at war, of the East or of the
West, Christian or Islamic, are, in various forms and
in different degrees, now worshiping. Their high priests
are the politicians and the worldly-wise, the so-called
sages of the age; their sacrifice, the flesh and blood of
the slaughtered multitudes; their incantations outworn
shibboleths and insidious and irreverent formulas;
their incense, the smoke of anguish that ascends from
the lacerated hearts of the bereaved, the maimed, and
the homeless.103
(7) The Rhetoric of Anxious Concern: Executing the
Teaching Plan
The name of this rhetorical mode is taken from Bahá’u’lláh’s
admonition, “Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age
ye live in, and center your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements.”104 To motivate the Bahá’ís to fulfill the
objectives of the Divine Plan, Shoghi Effendi’s letters
contained earnest appeals, solemn entreaties and sober
admonitions. The subtext to the following example is the

The Art of Rhetoric
convenantal language of the renewed pledge, “the dual
responsibility solemnly undertaken under the Seven Year Plan”:
I entreat the American Bahá’í Community, whatever
the immediate or distant repercussions of the present
turmoil on their own continent, however violent its
impact upon the World Center of their Faith, to pledge
themselves anew, before the Throne of Bahá’u’lláh, to
discharge, with unswerving aim, unfailing courage,
invincible vigor, exemplary fidelity and ever-deepening
consecration,
the
dual
responsibility
solemnly
undertaken under the Seven Year Plan. I implore them
to accelerate their efforts, increase their vigilance,
deepen their unity, multiply their heroic feats,
maintain their distant outposts in the teaching field of
Latin America and expedite the termination of the last
stage in the ornamentation of the Temple. I am praying
continually with redoubled fervor.105
He wrote these words during the Ten Year Plan (1953-1963), less
than six weeks before his passing in Knightsbridge, London:
Once again — and this time more fervently than ever
before — I direct my plea to every single member of this
strenuously laboring, clear-visioned, stout-hearted,
spiritually endowed community, every man and
woman, on whose individual efforts, resolution, self-
sacrifice and perseverance the immediate destinies of
the Faith of God, now traversing so crucial a stage in
its rise and establishment, primarily depends, not to
allow, through apathy, timidity or complacency, this
one remaining opportunity to be irretrievably lost.106
Particular Rhetorical Techniques
Divine charisma notwithstanding, the Guardian’s formal
study of rhetoric at the Syrian Protestant College (1915-1917)
familiarised him with the classical elements of speech-art which
he learned to use effectively. Above we have examined seven
rhetorical modes used by Shoghi Effendi that are associated
with classical rhetoric, particularly the epideictic and
deliberative modes. However, because they are Bahá’í-specific,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
our author’s writings exhibit certain atypical stylistic features
which will be examined now.
(1) Loving Greetings
Shoghi Effendi’s warm and loving greetings establish an
immediate, personal contact with the reader. These greetings
expressed, in solicitous terms, his sincere affection and open
admiration of his fellow-believers. He wrote such endearing
salutations as “Dearly-beloved friends!,” “Fellow-believers in the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh,” “To the beloved of the Lord and the
handmaids of the Merciful,” “My dearest brethren and sisters
in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” “My dearly-beloved brethren and sisters in
the love of God!,” Dearest brethren and sisters in Bahá’u’lláh!,
“My dearest friends” and “Dearly-beloved co-workers.” The
lone greeting in The Promised Day Is Come is found,
atypically, not at the beginning of that text, but in its
concluding passages, and reads simply “Dear friends!” The
salutation “Dearly-beloved co-workers” indicated that Shoghi
Effendi saw himself as a close collaborator with his fellow
believers. His closing signature indicated, not only his
profound humility, but also his strong sense of fraternal
collaboration. The weighty title “Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of
the Cause of God” he did not deem appropriate. He signed
humbly, “Your true brother, Shoghi” or simply “Shoghi.” In
Persian, he usually signed Bandeh-yeh-Ástánesh, Shoghi,
“Servant of His Threshold, Shoghi.”
(2) Persuasion By Authoritative Reason
We have already seen that at its origins in ancient Greece,
rhetoric used both logic and emotion. In The Promised Day Is
Come, The Advent of Divine Justice and The World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, Shoghi Effendi’s judgments and strong appeals to
participate in the Divine Plan were accompanied by sober
arguments. We have noted that the Guardian was not inclined
to abstraction and speculation, nor are his writings dialectical
in the Socratic or Platonic sense. Aristotle’s dialectic of “a
rational inference based on probable premises”107 comes
perhaps closest to some of the arguments presented in The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh (1934), but the apocalyptic
certitude that accompanied his theological judgments excluded

The Art of Rhetoric
probabilities. His writings employed an authoritative reason
to elucidate truth, but this reason was based on flashes of
insight that were grounded in divine authority, rather than the
working of an elaborate logic. Authoritative reason is akin to
the apodictic statement/proposition mentioned under the
magisterial mode in (3) above (apodeiktos=demonstrable), viz.
a philosophical truth that is beyond doubt or a binding,
religious command.
The following passage from the Dispensation rejects one of
the misconceptions about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá entertained by
American Bahá’ís during the 1920’s and early 1930’s: that He
shared a “mystic unity” with Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi
corrected this misapprehension partly on moral grounds. Those
who over-estimated ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s station were “just as
reprehensible and have done just as much harm as those who
underestimate it.”108 This overestimation lent credibility to the
complaint of the covenant-breakers that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
laying claim to divinity “before the expiration of a full
thousand years”: “…they are inadvertently justifying and
continuously furnishing the enemy with proofs for his false
accusations and misleading statements.”109 But his argument
was also rational and deductive with its economical mentions
of “erroneous conception,” “unjustified inference” and
“inescapable inference.” Regarding the so-called mystical unity
between Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he wrote:
This erroneous conception may, in part, be ascribed to
an altogether extravagant interpretation of certain
terms and passages in the Tablet of the Branch, to the
introduction into its English translation of certain
words that are either non-existent, misleading, or
ambiguous in their connotation. It is, no doubt,
chiefly based upon an altogether unjustified inference
from the opening passages of a Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh,
extracts of which, as reproduced in the Bahá’í
Scriptures, immediately precede, but form no part of,
the said Tablet of the Branch. It should be made clear
to every one reading those extracts that by the phrase
“the Tongue of the Ancient” no one else is meant but
God, and that the term “the Greatest Name” is an
obvious reference to Bahá’u’lláh, and that “the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Covenant” referred to is not the specific Covenant of
which Bahá’u’lláh is the immediate Author and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá the Center but that general Covenant which, as
inculcated by the Bahá’í teaching, God Himself
invariably
establishes
with
mankind
when
He
inaugurates a new Dispensation. “The Tongue” that
“gives,” as stated in those extracts, the “glad-tidings” is
none other than the Voice of God referring to Bahá’-
u’lláh, and not Bahá’u’lláh referring to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Moreover, to maintain that the assertion “He is
Myself,” instead of denoting the mystic unity of God
and His Manifestations, as explained in the Kitáb-i-
Iqán, establishes the identity of Bahá’u’lláh with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, would constitute a direct violation of
the oft-repeated principle of the oneness of God’s
Manifestations — a principle which the Author of these
same extracts is seeking by implication to emphasize….
Furthermore, the inescapable inference from the belief
in the identity of the Author of our Faith with Him
Who is the Center of His Covenant would be to place
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a position superior to that of the Báb,
the reverse of which is the fundamental, though not as
yet
universally
recognized,
principle
of
this
Revelation.110
(3) The Rhetorical Question
The Rhetoric of Praise that created the consciousness of the
world-historical mission of the North American Bahá’ís was
elaborated through an atypical, long series of rhetorical
questions. Normally, the rhetorical question does not seek to
provide information, but rather to elicit an emotional
response. But while Shoghi Effendi’s rhetorical list of praise
was surely well-received, it also provided vital information. The
historical synopsis that it provided can still be used by
historians to further investigate American Bahá’í history. The
rhetorical list also opened a lens through which the North
America Bahá’ís could see themselves in a new light, doubtless
for the first time. The courageous “little band of followers,”111
who formerly saw themselves as individual disciples of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, acting under His personal direction, were transformed

The Art of Rhetoric
by Shoghi Effendi’s historical vision into a self-standing,
cohesive, vibrant religious community that had successfully
overcome the major obstacles that once stood in the way of
implanting the Bahá’í Faith on North American soil. The
Guardian’s Rhetoric of Praise was, moreover, intended to
instill the confidence necessary to complete the future tasks
with which he would entrust the North American Bahá’ís.
(4) Kinetic Emotion
Northrop Frye pointed out that with rhetorical prose, “…we
are moving rapidly away from literature toward the direct
verbal expression of kinetic emotion”112 (Gk. κινεο = to move).
Frye downgrades this genre as “tantrum prose,” with its
tendency to “express emotion apart from or without
intellect.”113 While the kinetic effect of Shoghi Effendi’s
writings
remains
strong,
they
qualify
nonetheless
as
“conceptual rhetoric”114 or prose of thought. Kinetic emotion
is generally considered to be out of place in intellectual
discourse. As we have seen with Aristotle, the mixing of strong
emotion with reason was seen to weaken the argument. Pure
logic was deemed to be closer to truth. The distrust of emotion
can be traced back to Plato’s Phaedrus in which he depicted the
soul as a charioteer who is drawn up to heaven by the white
winged horse (Pegasus) of reason (“good”) and back down to
earth again by the black horse of the emotions/passion
(“bad”).115
Plato’s
figure
regrettably
succeeded
in
dichotomizing reason and emotion.

Rhetorical theory has only legitimized what has long been
known — emotions have a legitimate and necessary place in
discourse. Even within science, sociologists G. Nigel Gilbert
and Michael Mulkay argue that emotion has a valid place. In
their Opening Pandora’s Box: A Sociological Analysis of
Scientists Discourse (1984), Gilbert and Mulkay find that
emotions are part and parcel of the process of the scientific
method and are latently present in scientific statements, even if
the emotional experience of the scientist is not explicitly
acknowledged in scientific formulations.116 Professor Louis C.
Charland, who studies the philosophy of emotion, has argued
against Paul E. Griffith’s radical stance that the category of
emotion and the word itself should be eliminated from

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
psychology. In his critical review “In Defence of Emotion,”
Charland argued that emotions form a natural status category
that simply cannot be eliminated. 117 The conceptual-affective
integration of cognition and emotion has been simply and
beautifully stated by Wayne C. Booth in Modern Dogma and
the Rhetoric of Assent (1974): “Every desire, every feeling, can
become a good reason when called into the court of symbolic
exchange.”118
In A Celestial Burning: The Writings of Shoghi Effendi, I
have identified the following predominant range of emotions
in the Guardian’s writings: (1) joy (2) exultation (3) justified
pride (4) justified anger (5) righteous indignation (6) pathos
(grief/pity) (7) shame and shamelessness.119 Due to the
limitation of space, only one example is given here — pathos.
The most outstanding example of pathos is Shoghi Effendi’s
ten page glowing tribute of July 17, 1932 marking the passing
of his beloved great-aunt, Bahíyyíh Khanum, the Greatest Holy
Leaf. The Guardian’s letter moves us, not only with his intense
personal grief, but it also provides a sensitive appraisal of
“…the towering grandeur of her spiritual life… the unique part
she played throughout the tumultuous stages of Bahá’í
history.”120 It begins:
Brethren
and
fellow-mourners
in
the
Faith
of
Bahá’u’lláh:
A sorrow, reminiscent in its poignancy, of the
devastating grief caused by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sudden
removal from our midst, has stirred the Bahá’í world to
its foundations. The Greatest Holy Leaf, the well-
beloved
and
treasured
Remnant
of
Bahá’u’lláh
entrusted to our frail and unworthy hands by our
departed Master, has passed to the Great Beyond,
leaving a legacy that time can never dim.
The community of the Most Great Name, in its
entirety and to its very core, feels the sting of this cruel
loss. Inevitable though this calamitous event appeared
to us all, however acute our apprehensions of its steady
approach,
the
consciousness
of
its
final
consummation at this terrible hour leaves us, we whose

The Art of Rhetoric
souls have been impregnated by the energizing influence
of her love, prostrated and disconsolate.
How can my lonely pen, so utterly inadequate to
glorify so exalted a station, so impotent to portray the
experiences of so sublime a life, so disqualified to
recount the blessings she showered upon me since my
earliest childhood — how can such a pen repay the great
debt of gratitude and love that I owe her whom I
regarded as my chief sustainer, my most affectionate
comforter, the joy and inspiration of my life? My grief
is too immense, my remorse too profound, to be able
to give full vent at this moment to the feelings that
surge within me.121
His letter concludes with this poignant apostrophe:
Dearly-beloved Greatest Holy Leaf! Through the mist of
tears that fill my eyes I can clearly see, as I pen these
lines, thy noble figure before me, and can recognize the
serenity of thy kindly face. I can still gaze, though the
shadow of the grave separate us, into thy blue, love-
deep eyes, and can feel, in its calm intensity, the
immense love thou didst bear for the Cause of thine
Almighty Father, the attachment that bound thee to the
most lowly and insignificant among its followers, the
warm affection thou didst cherish for me in thine
heart. The memory of the ineffable beauty of thy smile
shall ever continue to cheer and hearten me in the
thorny path I am destined to pursue. The remembrance
of the touch of thine hand shall spur me on to follow
steadfastly in thy way. The sweet magic of thy voice
shall remind me, when the hour of adversity is at its
darkest, to hold fast to the rope thou didst seize so
firmly all the days of thy life.122
(5) Caveats, Conditions and Constructive Criticism
The caveat, a caution or warning, and the condition are
characteristic of Shoghi Effendi’s covenantal language. When
our author uses the phrases “unless and until” or “Then and
only then,” he is stipulating that certain conditions must be
observed to fulfil the goal he has in mind. Addressing the North

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
American Bahá’ís on April 11, 1949, during the Second Seven
Year Plan, Shoghi Effendi laid down three conditions for the
success of the Plan, whose chief goal was “the completion of the
Mother Temple of the West.” This project was “…of such a
weighty character as to overshadow every enterprise embarked
upon through the organized efforts of its members, in either
the concluding years of the Heroic Age of the Faith or the first
epoch of the Age which succeeded it.”123 The successful
outcome of this enterprise depended on the realisation of three
interdependent conditions: (1) universal participation (2)
sacrifice (3) systematic effort:
Nor can this campaign yield its richest fruit unless and
until the community, in its entirety, participates in
this nation-wide sacrificial effort. Nor can this
collective effort be blessed, to the fullest extent
possible, unless the contributions made by its members
involve acts of self-abnegation, not only on the part of
those of modest means, but also by those endowed with
substantial resources. Nor, indeed, can these self-
denying acts, by both the rich and the poor, be
productive of the fullest possible benefit unless this
sacrificial effort is neither momentary nor haphazard,
but rather systematic and continuous throughout the
period of the present emergency.124
He indicated that should these three conditions be met,
unsuspected “regenerative power” would flow from that “holy
edifice”:
Then and only then will this holy edifice, symbol and
harbinger of a world civilization as yet unborn, and
the embodiment of the sacrifice of a multitude of the
upholders of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, release the full
measure of the regenerative power with which it has
been endowed, shed in all its plenitude the glory of the
Most Holy Spirit dwelling within it, and vindicate,
beyond the shadow of a doubt, the truth of every single
promise
recorded
by
the
pen
of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
pertaining to its destiny.125
While Shoghi Effendi’s Rhetoric of Praise extolled the
“virtues and qualities”126 of the North American Bahá’í

The Art of Rhetoric
community, he also drew attention to its “faults, habits, and
tendencies.”127 Here is one such observation: “The American
Bahá’í Community, the leaven destined to leaven the whole,
cannot hope, at this critical juncture in the fortunes of a
struggling, perilously situated, spiritually moribund nation, to
either escape the trials with which this nation is confronted,
nor claim to be wholly immune from the evils that stain its
character.”128 More pointed critiques were sometimes made.
The weeding out of negative moral and cultural traits was
necessary if the two North American nations were to fulfil
their high destiny.
These criticisms were always tactful and constructive, but
they were delivered nonetheless in clear language. Regarding
racial prejudice in America, “…the most vital and challenging
issue confronting the Bahá’í community at the present stage of
its evolution…,” he wrote: “The ceaseless exertions which this
issue of paramount importance calls for, the sacrifices it must
impose, the care and vigilance it demands, the moral courage
and fortitude it requires, the tact and sympathy it necessitates,
invest this problem, which the American believers are still far
from having satisfactorily resolved, with an urgency and
importance that cannot be overestimated.”129 However
egalitarian were (are) the teachings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on racial
equality and unity, promoted as early on as the second decade
of the twentieth century, the above passage makes it clear that
the Bahá’ís were still far from observing the ideal standard. The
Guardian presented the racial unity of whites and African
Americans as a social and spiritual challenge that demanded the
immediate and urgent attention of every believer.
In his eulogy of the North American Bahá’ís, the Guardian
felt impelled to utter “a word of warning”:
Dearly beloved friends! Great as is my love and
admiration for you, convinced as I am of the
paramount share which you can, and will, undoubtedly
have in both the continental and international spheres
of future Bahá’í activity and service, I feel it
nevertheless incumbent upon me to utter, at this
juncture, a word of warning.130

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The Guardian’s word of warning draws a “sharp distinction”
between the North American Bahá’ís and the larger non-Bahá’í
society in which they live. This sharp distinction is made, not
to indulge any sense of false pride or self-satisfaction, but
rather to befittingly recognize “the transmuting power of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.”131 The source of such distinction and
achievements lay not in themselves, but rather in the powers
dispensed by the Founder of their faith. While the source of
this
distinction
between
the
Bahá’í
and
non-Bahá’í
communities would seem to be clear enough, the point is
nonetheless a subtle one. As we have seen above, the Guardian
indicated that there could be no safe haven for the Bahá’í
community from the trials experienced by their countrymen,
nor could any immunity be claimed from the faults that stain
the American character. Drawing a parallel between the sublime
transformation of the apostolic heroes and martyrs of the
Heroic Age (1844-1921), and “To a lesser degree…” with “…the
country which has vindicated its right to be regarded as the
cradle of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,” Shoghi Effendi
issued this sobering reminder:
Let not, therefore, those who are to participate so
predominantly in the birth of that world civilization,
which is the direct offspring of their Faith, imagine for
a moment that for some mysterious purpose or by any
reason
of
inherent
excellence
or
special
merit
Bahá’u’lláh has chosen to confer upon their country
and people so great and lasting a distinction. It is
precisely by reason of the patent evils which,
notwithstanding
its
other
admittedly
great
characteristics and achievements, an excessive and
binding materialism has unfortunately engendered
within it that the Author of their Faith and the Center
of His Covenant have singled it out to become the
standard-bearer of the New World Order envisaged in
their writings.132
Then our author proceeds to spell out the faults that need to be
rooted out. As usual, he mentions the virtues and qualities that
must replace them:

The Art of Rhetoric
It is by such means as this that Bahá’u’lláh can best
demonstrate to a heedless generation His almighty
power to raise up from the very midst of a people,
immersed in a sea of materialism, a prey to one of the
most virulent and long-standing forms of racial
prejudice, and notorious for its political corruption,
lawlessness and laxity in moral standards, men and
women who, as time goes by, will increasingly
exemplify those essential virtues of self-renunciation,
of moral rectitude, of chastity, of indiscriminating
fellowship, of holy discipline, and of spiritual insight
that will fit them for the preponderating share they will
have in calling into being that World Order and that
World Civilization of which their country, no less than
the entire human race, stands in desperate need.133
His observations are adjusted by this positive note:
Observations such as these, however distasteful and
depressing they may be, should not, in the least, blind
us to those virtues and qualities of high intelligence, of
youthfulness, of unbounded initiative, and enterprise
which the nation as a whole so conspicuously displays,
and which are being increasingly reflected by the
community of the believers within it. Upon these
virtues and qualities, no less than upon the elimination
of the evils referred to, must depend, to a very great
extent, the ability of that community to lay a firm
foundation for the country’s future role in ushering in
the Golden Age of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.134
Summary of Shoghi Effendi’s Art of Rhetoric
1. The primary functions of Shoghi Effendi’s rhetoric are
to persuade and to move to action.
2. His rhetorical style is distinctive because it is Bahá’í-
specific.
3. Seven modes of suasive speech may be identified in his
discourse.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
4. His rhetoric preserves some of the classical features
identified by Aristotle.
5. The Guardian is credible and impressive, not only
because he is an effective rhetorician, but also because he
is an outstanding historical figure, of high moral repute,
who executed the wide range of his accomplishments to
perfection.
6. Persuasion is achieved by a judicious balance of
authoritative reason and kinetic emotion.
7. His use of the rhetorical question is atypical.
8. His
rhetorical
language
is
covenantal,
that
is,
conditional.
9. While Shoghi Effendi praises, he also judges and, when
necessary, condemns.
10. As head of the Bahá’í Faith, he engages in constructive
criticism of his co-religionists.
Conclusion
In this paper, I have argued that Shoghi Effendi’s rhetorical
skill was not the product of divine charisma alone, but also of
formal study and practice. The strong rhetorical effects in the
Guardian’s writings may help to insure that this ancient
speech-art will be revived in the Bahá’í dispensation, and
become the object, not only of rhetorical theory, but also of
practice. Shoghi Effendi’s exemplary character, and the
excellence that he showed in guiding the world-wide Bahá’í
community during his administration, gives credibility to his
rhetoric. His rhetoric shows that he was cognizant of, and used
effectively, some of the classical elements of the ancient art
which his writings preserve. However, his Bahá’í-specific
discourse resulted in an original, magisterial style that speaks
in distinct rhetorical modes and techniques.

The Art of Rhetoric

NOTES
1. This paper is a modified version of chapter eight, “Rhetoric: The
Language of Persuasion,” of my forthcoming book A Celestial Burning:
The Writings of Shoghi Effendi from George Ronald Publisher. An
earlier version of this paper was presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquium
held at the Bosch Bahá’í School, Santa Cruz, California, May 26-29,
2005. My thanks to Dr. Iraj Ayman, convenor of the ‘Irfán Colloquia,
for including the writings of the Guardian in the ‘Irfán sessions, and to
Dr. Stephen Lambden whose thoughtful questioning led to a major
revision of this paper.
2. Bahá’í publications usually give the dates of the guardianship as 1921-
1957, that is, thirty-six years. However, the Will and Testament of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was not read officially until January 3, 1922 and the
“provisions of the Will were not made known until it was first read to
Shoghi Effendi….” By the Gregorian calendar, then, the Guardian was in
office for thirty-five years, not thirty-six. But the thirty-six year period
is correct if reckoned by the Jalalí solar calendar which is use in Iran.
See Madame Rúhíyyih Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl (London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1969) p. 45.
3. The qualification Qua indicates that the Guardian was writing in his
official capacity as head of the Bahá’í Faith, in his own hand, and not
through secretaries who wrote on his behalf.
4. The word “arise” frequently punctuated Shoghi Effendi’s message. The
Multiple Author Refer System gives 499 uses of the word.
5. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan was conceived for the world-wide expansion
of the Bahá’í Faith. In its simplest form, it was outlined as a teaching
plan in the fourteen Tablets of the Divine Plan which were written to
the North American Bahá’ís during World War One between 1916-1917
and received after the war. In the Preface to these tablets, Horace
Holley referred to the North American Bahá’ís as having been chosen
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá “as a teaching agency chosen for an international
mission.” Beginning in 1937 with the First Seven Year Plan, Shoghi
Effendi began to systematically execute this “charter” which he felt it
was his obligation to establish. See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine
Plan: Revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American Bahá’ís during
1916 and 1917 (Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971).
6. David Macey, “Rhetoric,” in The Penguin Dictionary of Critical Theory
(Harmondsworth: Penguin Books), p. 329.
7. For a good overview of the various schools and approaches in the
history of rhetoric in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, see
“Bedford St. Martin’s–The Bedford Bibliography: History of Rhetoric,”
http://www.bedfordbooks.com/bb/history.html.
Early
on
in
the
twenty-first century, this field, as for literary criticism, has become
widely diverse with studies ranging from literacy and language learning,
to composition theory and practice, traditional rhetorical theory,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

postmodernism, and social issues of gender, race, media, culture,
ethnicity and class.
8. Bret Breneman, “Socrates’/Plato’s Use of Rhetoric: A Bahá’í
Perspective,” The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, vol. 4, no. 1, March-June
1991, pp. 1-18.
9. For Plato, dialectic meant forming conclusions reached by the debate of
question and answer. For him, dialectic was the science of first
principles since it dispensed with hypotheses and was viewed as the
“coping-stone” of the sciences. Aristotle’s more formal logic developed
the syllogism as a type of demonstration. For Aristotle, dialectic was a
process of criticism which was the means of refining all principles that
were asserted to be true. For a fuller history of dialectic, see Roland
Hall’s “Dialectic” in The Encyclopaedia of Philosophy, Paul Edward,
Editor-in-Chief (New York and London: Collier MacMillan Publishers,
1967), vol. I, pp. 385-389.
10. Aristotle’s notion of politics differed from modern notions of
adversarial party systems which are based on the acquisition of power.
Just as the Nichomachean Ethics was concerned with the acquisition of
individual happiness based on the practice of virtue, Aristotle’s Politics
“…treats of the state as one of the chief means through which the
individual attains happiness. The object of [eight books of ] the
Politics is both practical and speculative; to explain the nature of the
ideal city (polis) in which the end of happiness may be completely
realised; to suggest some methods of making existent states more
useful to the individual citizen than they were in Aristotle’s time, or
had been in the past.” From the Introduction by H.W. C. Davis,
Aristotle’s Politics trans. by Benjamin Jowett (Mineola, New York:
Dover Publications, 2000), p. 3. An unabridged reprint of the 1885
translation.
11. See Chapter 1 of Book 1 (of 3) of Aristotle’s On Rhetoric: A Theory of
Civic Discourse. Newly translated with Introduction, Notes, and
Appendixes by George A. Kennedy (New York and Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1991).
In the On Rhetoric, Aristotle identified logic or discursive reason with
the rhetorical syllogism known as the enthymeme which was a popular,
not a properly logical demonstration.
12. ibid.
13. Riaz Khadem, Shoghi Effendi in Oxford and Earlier (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1999), p. 13.
14. ibid, p. 88.
15. In British universities, Michaelmas corresponds to the North American
Fall/ Autumn semester or term.
16. The Oxford Union Society is a student society that arranges speaker
meetings and social events, but debates were (and are) central to the
functions of the Union. In the past, the Oxford Union Society and its

The Art of Rhetoric

counterpart
at
Cambridge,
and
their
respective
presidencies,
functioned as a training ground for Britain’s aspiring prime ministers,
politicians and statesmen. But with more recent egalitarian trends in
British society, the Unions are not as influential as they once were.
17. `Alí M. Yazdí, Blessings Beyond Measure: Recollections of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and Shoghi Effendi (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988), p. 84.
18. ibid, p. 85.
19. The Priceless Pearl, p. 13.
20. Shoghi Effendi in Oxford and Earlier, p. 110. Letter from William Elliot
to Riaz Khadem, dated July 15, 1969.
21. Breneman, ibid, p. 3.
22. The interview was published originally in Seven Days, February 23,
1979, p. 20. Cited in William S. Hatcher and J. Douglas Martin, The
Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion, new edition (Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing, 2002), n. 15, p. 222. Thanks to Dr. Susan Maneck for
locating the above quotation.
23. For an excellent survey of the repressive measures taken against the
Bahá’í community by the Islamic Republic of Iran see Firuz
Kazemzadeh, “The Bahá’ís in Iran: Twenty Years of Repression. (non-
Muslim Religious Minority),” published originally in the magazine
Social Research, June 22, 2000. http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-
63787342.html
24. Breneman “Socrates’/Plato’s Use of Rhetoric: A Bahá’í Perspective,”
pp. 5-11.
25. Gorgias was a Sicilian who came to Athens in 427 BCE who used a
poetic style and paradoxical arguments. He delivered and wrote
speeches for others. Kennedy, On Rhetoric: A Theory of Civic
Discourse, Appendix I, p. 283. Bret Breneman points out that Plato
critiqued rhetoric in the Protagoras and the Euthydemus. See ibid, p. 7.
26. “Rhetoric” in David Macey, The Penguin Dictionary of Critical Theory
(Harmondsworth: Penguin Books), p. 330.
27. The basic difference that Plato and Aristotle had with the Sophists was
their denial of the ideal world of forms. For them, reality was confined
to outward phenomena and they did not share the denial of the
Platonist that the phenomenal world was not real. For Plato, the
phenomenal world was merely a sham world and anybody who clung to
it as being real was only deluding himself. See G.B. Kerferd’s “Sophists”
in The Encyclopedia of Philosophy , Paul Edwards, Editor-in-Chief (New
York and London: Macmillan and The Free Press, vol. 7, 1967), pp. 494-96.
28. See Plato’s Sophist and “Rhetoric” in David Macey, ibid, p. 330.
29. It meant any public speaker. Rhetor today has a pejorative meaning.
30. Jane P. Tompkins, “An Introduction to Reader-Response Criticism,”
in Reader-Response Criticism From Formalism to Post-Structuralism,
Jane P. Tompkins, ed. (Baltimore and London: The Johns Hopkins

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

University Press,1980), p. xxv. Tompkins is referring to Longinus’s
remarkable treatise “On the Sublime.”
31. “Rhetoric” in the Encyclopaedia Britannica ( 1959).
32. “Quintilian” (Marcus Fabius Quintilianus, c. 35-95 CE) at All Experts
Encyclopedia http://experts.about.com/e/q/qu/quintilian.htm, p. 5.
33. ibid, p. 6.
34. Among other principles, Quintilian advocated that the father should
have the highest hopes for his child, that the child’s nurse should speak
well and both parents and teachers should be well-educated. In a
patriarchal society, he saw a well-educated mother as an asset to the
growing orator. Childhood education should begin early and be
enjoyable for the child; amusement should be built into the
curriculum. See 1.1.1, 1.1.4, 1.1.6, 1.1.21 of the Institutio Oratoria in
“Quintilian,”
the
All
Experts
Encyclopedia
http://experts.about.com/e/q/qu/quintilian.htm, p. 4.
35. “Quintialian” in the Encyclopaedia Britannica ( 1959).
36. In addition to Rúhíyyih Rabbani’s, The Priceless Pearl, informative but
brief pen portraits of Shoghi Effendi were recorded by Ugo Giachery,
Mountfort Mills, Roy Wilhelm, May Bolles Maxwell, Alaine Locke,
Keith Ransom-Kehler, Helen Bishop, O.Z. Whitehead and Leroy Ioas.
See Appendix I of Ugo Giachery, Shoghi Effendi: Recollections (George
Ronald: Oxford, 1973) and A Tribute to Shoghi Effendi by Amelia
Collins (1958). There is also Leroy Ioas’s tape-recorded talk made in
Johannesburg in 1958 about the life and work of the Guardian.
37. The chapter in Marcus Bach’s book that treats the Guardian has been
excerpted and published as A Meeting With Shoghi Effendi (Oxford:
One World Publications, 1993). Barney Leith’s comment is found on p.
viii.
38. Although the dust jacket says that Bach met Shoghi Effendi “one April
evening in 1953,” Barney Leith writes in his introduction that the
meeting took place on February 12, 1953. Bach himself refers to the
“February cold” that he experienced at the border crossing. The border
guard instructed him to be back within a week since Israel was at war.
A Meeting With Shoghi Effendi pp. vi, 3 and 5.
39. ibid, pp. 30, 33, 35, 40-41.
40. The phrase is that of Edward P.J. Corbett, Rhetorical Analyses of
Literary Works (New York: Oxford University Press, 1969), p. xxiii.
41. “He is, above and beyond these appellations, the “Mystery of God” —
an expression by which Bahá’u’lláh Himself has chosen to designate
Him, and which, while it does not by any means justify us to assign to
Him the station of Prophethood, indicates how in the person of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá the incompatible characteristics of a human nature and
superhuman knowledge and perfection have been blended and are
completely harmonized.”
Shoghi Effendi, “The Dispensation of

The Art of Rhetoric

Bahá’u’lláh” in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1991), p. 134.
42. “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in WOB p. 151.
43. The Priceless Pearl, p. 2. Miss Drayton is not named by Madame
Rabbani, but her name appears in the salutation of the Arabic tablet.
See Dr. Yunis Afrukhteh, Khatirát-i-Nuh-Saleh-i-Akká, p. 187. Thanks to
Dr. Sima Quddusi for referring me to this text.
44. The Priceless Pearl, p. 2.
45. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Wilmette: Illinois,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944), p. 25.
46. ibid, p. 11.
47. ibid, p 3.
48. The Priceless Pearl, pp. 459-61. See also chapter VI “Facets of Shoghi
Effendi’s Personality,” pp. 125-43.
49. Hand of the Cause of God Leroy Ioas (1896-1965), who served as the
Guardian’s assistant-secretary and representative from March 1952 to
Shoghi Effendi’s passing on November 4, 1957, said in a tape-recorded
talk made after the Guardian’s passing in Johannesburg, South Africa
on October 31, 1958 that in addition to his other duties, the Guardian
received 700 pages of N.S.A. minutes in one day alone which he was
required to read. The above dates of service and the date of her father’s
talk were indicated to me in a letter of Mr. Ioas’s daughter, Anita Ioas
Chapman, dated January 31, 2000. However, Mr. Ioas indicates in the
same talk that his period of service was “six years” (tape recorded
personal copy).
50. Rúhíyyih Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl, p. 436.
51. Edward P.J. Corbett, Rhetorical Analyses of Literary Works (New York:
Oxford University Press, 969), p. xxii. Italics in original.
52. ibid, p.xxii.
53.Jane Tompkins, “The Reader in History:The Changing Shape of Literary
Response” in Reader-Response Criticism: From Formalism to Post-
Structuralism, Jane Tompkins ed. (Baltimore and London: Johns
Hopkins University Press, 1980), p. 204. It needs to be said, however,
that one would have to be selective in applying the principles of
reader-response theory to the writings of Shoghi Effendi. Reader-
response theory gives a predominant role to the reader in the creation
of meaning compared to the “objectivity” of the text. Any reading of
the Guardian’s writings would have to weigh heavily on the side of the
objective meaning intended by him. It is not the reader who creates
ultimate meaning in the reading process, but Shoghi Effendi.
54. From the Introduction, Corbett, Rhetorical Analyses of Rhetorical
Works, p. xi.
55. Ann Boyles, “The Epistolary Style of Shoghi Effendi” in The Vision of
Shoghi Effendi: Proceedings of the Association for Bahá’í Studies Ninth

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

Annual Conference, November 2-4, 1984, Ottawa, Canada. (Ottawa:
Bahá’í Sudies Publications, 1993), p. 9. Dr. Boyles is quoting C. Hugh
Holman, A Handbook to Literature, 3d ed. (Indianapolis: Bobbs-
Merrill, 1972), p. 199.
56. William Merrill Decker, Epistolary Practices: Letter Writing in America
Before Telecommunications (Chapel Hill and London: The University of
North Carolina Press, 1998), p. 5.
57. A document written entirely in the hand of its author.
58. Decker, Epistolary Practices, p. 4.
59. Helen, John and Amelia Danesh, “The Life of Shoghi Effendi” in
Studying the Writings of Shoghi Effendi, ed. by Morten Bergsmo
(Oxford: George Ronald, 1991), p. 25.
60. An expression used frequently by Bahá’u’lláh in His tablets and in such
works as the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and The Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.
61. What is meant by mixed genres is that, under one cover, the Guardian’s
writings blend history with scripture, theological interpretation, moral
judgments, commentary on social situations and world current events
and administrative guidance. In other words, the Guardian was no
respecter of the strictness of genre and created his own magisterial
style that blended elements of several genres. See, for example, The
Promised Day Is Come, The Advent of Divine Justice and The World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
62. “Kerygma” in Van A. Harvey, A Handbook of Theological Terms (New
York: MacMillan, 1964), pp. 138-140.
63. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, p. 7.
64. Northrop Frye, The Anatomy of Criticism: Four Essays (Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1957), pp. 326-327.
65. ibid, p. 327.
66. ibid. The other examples cited by Frye are: “…Johnson’s letter to
Chesterfield, some sermons in the period between Latimer and the
Commonwealth, some of Burke’s speeches…” and “…Vanzetti’s death
speech.”
67. The MARS program lists 269 instances of the use of the word “action”
in the letters and communications of Shoghi Effendi.
68. U.S. Bahá’í News, June 6, 1937, no. 108, p. 1.
69. Messages to the Antipodes: Communications from Shoghi Effendi to the
Bahá’í Communities of Australasia
(Mona
Vale,
NSW:
Bahá’í
Publications Australia, 1997), p. 110.
70. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, p. 120.
71. Frye, Anatomy of Criticism, p. 327.
72. Citadel of Faith, p. 157.
73. Messages to the Bahá’í World, p. 99.

The Art of Rhetoric

74. The meaning of unction intended here is “a fervent or sympathetic
quality in words or tone caused by or causing deep emotion.” The
Canadian Oxford Dictionary, 1998.
75. “Apodeictic” in Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1994 and 2005), p. 19
76. “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in WOB p. 147.
77. That the writings of a ‘Abdu’l-Bahá cannot be referred to as “divine
revelation” has been clearly decided by a simple statement of Shoghi
Effendi. Referring to the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh he wrote: “The
setting of so effulgent an Orb brought to a definite termination the
period of Divine Revelation — the initial and most vitalizing stage in
the Bahá’í era” “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in WOB  p. 143.
78. “Temperamentally Shoghi Effendi is a doer, a builder, an organizer, and
loathes abstractions!” Madame Rabbani is quoting from her own diary.
The Priceless Pearl, p. 81.
79. The word “positive” has developed a number of meanings since its
empirical definition by one of the founding fathers of sociology,
August Comte, in his famous Law of Three Stages. Here it refers to the
Guardian’s functional, constructive, non-speculative elucidations of
Bahá’í sacred texts that are used for apologetic purposes.
80. These phrases are taken from The Promised Day Is Come (Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996), p. 52 and “The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh” in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 114, respectively.
81. “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in WOB p. 114.
82. ibid, pp. 152-154.
83. ibid, p. 123.
84. In 1955 Shoghi Effendi wrote that the premeditated campaign of
persecution was the most serious crisis the Bahá’í Faith had experienced
since the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1921. He lists the various crimes
committed against the Iranian Bahá’í community in Citadel of Faith:
Messages to America, 1947-1957 (Wilmette, 1965), pp. 134-36.
85. Citadel of Faith, p. 134.
86. ibid, p. 136.
87. Messages to America: Selected Letters and Cablegrams Addressed to the
Bahá’ís of North America, 1932-1946 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1947), pp. 58-59.
88. GPB p. 386.
89. ADJ pp. 5-11. Subsequent quotations are taken from this section.
90. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 156.
91. “Semen est sanguis Christianorum,” literally “The blood of Christians is
seed.”
From
the
Apologeticum,
chapter
50:
13.
http://www.tertullian.org/quotes.htm. Translation by the Rev. S.
Thelwall, late scholar of Christ’s College, Canterbury.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

92. The challenge and response factor in making history belongs to
Toynbee’s theory of “the geneses of civilizations” in his monumental
ten volume A Study of History. See II:V, “Challenge and Response,” in
vol. 1 of D.C. Somervell’s abridgement (of II). (New York and London:
Oxford University Press, 1957), pp. 60-79.
93. The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 7-8.
94. ibid, pp. 8-10.
95. The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 10.
96. The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 30.
97. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, p. 25.
98. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, pp. 53-4, from a cablegram of
December 16, 1953.
99. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages, 1922-1932, p. 138.
100. ibid, p. 138.
101. ibid, p. 138.
102. Ninian Smart, Reasons and Faiths: An Investigation of Religious
Discourse, Christian and non-Christian (London: Routledge and Kegan
Paul, 1958 (reprint 1965), p. 182. See especially chapter seven “Moral
Discourse and Religion,” pp. 179-96.
103. PDC 113.
104. GWB p. 213.
105. Cablegram June 13, 1940. Messages to America, p. 42.
106. Citadel of Faith, p. 157.
107. Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1994 and 2005), p. 99.
108. “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in WOB 45.
109. ibid, p. 45.
110. “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in WOB, pp. 137-138.
111. Bahá’í Administration, p. 67.
112. Northrop Frye, The Anatomy of Criticism: Four Essays (Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1957), p. 328.
113. ibid, p. 328.
114. Anatomy of Criticism, p. 329.
115. The Works of Plato: The Jowett Translation, selected and edited by
Erwin Edman (New York: The Modern Library (Random House, 1956),
p. 295. Jowett does not translate the colour of the “bad” horse as being
black but rather as “of a dark colour.”
116. See Nigel C. Gilbert and Michael Mulkay, Opening Pandora’s Box: A
Sociological Analysis of Scientists’ Discourse (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1984). Referred to by Doug Brent, Reading as
Rhetorical Invention: Knowledge, Persuasion, and the Teaching of

The Art of Rhetoric

Research-Based Writing (Urbana: Illinois, National Council of Teachers
of English, 1992), pp. 61-62.
117. The basic thrust of Charland’s arguments is that emotions form a
natural status category that cannot be eliminated. See “In Defence of
Emotion” in the Canadian Journal of Philosophy, #31, 2001, p. 133-54.
118. Quoted by Doug Brent in Reading as Rhetorical Invention:
Knowledge, Persuasion, and the Teaching of Research-Based Writing
(Urbana Illinois: National Council of Teachers of English, 1992), p. 73.
See Wayne C. Booth, Modern Dogma and the Rhetoric of Assent
(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1974).
119. In Ch. 8, “Rhetoric: The Language of Persuasion,” pp. 351-359 in my
manuscript copy. Forthcoming in the Studies Series by George Ronald.
120. Bahá’í Administration, p. 187.
121. ibid, p. 187.
122. ibid, p. 195.
123. Citadel of Faith, p. 68.
124. ibid, p. 68.
125. ibid, p. 68.
126. The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 20.
127. ibid, p. 20.
128. Citadel of Faith, p. 127
129. The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 34.
130. ibid, p.16
131. The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 16.
132. ibid, p. 19.
133. ibid, pp. 19-20.
134. ibid, p. 20.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the
Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice *
A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
I. Some translation issues
Early last year, a translation was posted by Dr Juan Cole of
a tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that dealt with the functioning and
authority of the Universal House of Justice: “On the House of
Justice and Bahá’í Jurisprudence.” The translation, which has
now been posted to the H-Bahai web-site, has a number of
places where the translation is infelicitous and appears to be
due to a misapprehension and, in one place, to a mis-reading of
the text.
In the first part of this presentation, I discuss in detail
those points of translation where I differ from Dr Cole; in the
second part, I present an alternative translation of the whole
tablet; while in the third part, I discuss a number of issues
arising out of these points of translation.
The first point at which there is an inappropriate
translation is the following sentence:
It should not be thought that the house of justice will
make decisions out of self-interest. I take refuge in

* In the summer of 2001, Dr Juan Cole posted a translation of a tablet of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on an e-mail list that he runs, called H-Bahái. I then wrote a
response to this in 2002, pointing out a number of problems with this
translation. This paper is the response that I made, slightly altered to make
is more easily readable. Dr Cole responded on the H-Bahái list to what I
written and I append to this paper an e-mail that I wrote replying to this.

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
God! The greatest house of justice makes decisions and
laws by virtue of the inspiration and confirmation of
the holy spirit.
The transliteration and word-for-word translation of this is as
follows:
hamchih muláhizih nashavad kih bayt al-`adl
Thus it should not be considered that the House of
Justice
bih fikr va ra’y-i khísh qarárí dihand.
by/through its own thought and opinion shall give a
decree/ruling.
Istaghfar Alláh!
I take refuge with God [from such a thought]!
Bayt al-`adl-i a`zam bi ilhám va ta’yid-i
The most mighty House of Justice by/through
inspiration and the confirmation
rúh al-quds qarár va ahkám járí nimáyad
of the holy spirit decrees/rulings and laws shall give (or
execute)
There is nothing in the sentence that could be translated as
“self-interest.” The two sentences are set against one another
and this is made clear by the use of “qarár” in both sentences
and by the exclamation between them. The first sentence states
that the House of Justice will not base it rulings on the
arbitrary opinions of its members and the second sentence goes
on to explain why that should be so — because its ruling will be
inspired and confirmed by the Holy Spirit.
In the next sentence there is a minor point: this next sentence
is somewhat stronger than is suggested by Cole’s translation.
There are three words which Cole has rendered as just one word
“protection”: vaqáyat va himáyat va siyánat. It is true that they
all have much the same meaning, but to translate them all with
one word does not convey the full force of the original.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The previous point is a fairly minor one compared to the
problem in the next paragraph. The sentence in question is
given by Cole as: “This is the wisdom of giving the house of
justice the purview over personal status ordinances (ahkám-i
madaniyyih).” The word madaniyyih comes from the root m-d-
n meaning to “stay” or “dwell.” The word madína which means
“city” or “town” comes from the same root. It is the exact
cognate in Islamic philosophical writing of the Latin “civis”
and the Greek “polis” (see S. Afnan, Philosophical Lexicon in Persian
and Arabic, 2nd ed., Tehran, 1262/1983, p. 278). Thus the adjective
“madaní” and its feminine form “madaniyyih” can be rendered
“urban,” “civil,” “civilizational,” or “social.” Its meaning is
therefore the exact opposite of Cole’s rendering of “personal
status.” “Madaniyyih” refers not to the personal and private
aspects of human life but to the social and civil.
In the next paragraph, the main problem appeared to be that
of extraneous material which does not appear in the original
text. There are some 30 words or more for which there is no
basis in the text as published on H-Bahai and Cole has not
indicated that he has used any other text. There is nothing in
the
text
that
corresponds
to
his
passage:
“that
the
jurisprudential reasoning or adoption of such by the
institution of the house of justice, whose members are elected
and seen as legitimate by the generality of the community, will
not provoke discord.” The text reads: “wa farq hamín ast kih as
istinbát-i `ulama hukman ikhtiláf hásil shavad va ba`ith-i tafríq
…” In other words, the text runs directly on from the sentence
that Cole has translated as: “…unless it is adopted by the house
of justice. The difference is this…” to the passage that he has
translated as: “…the jurisprudential rulings of individual
scholars can provoke disputes and cause division…” There is
nothing in between that could allow for the extensive passage
that Cole has inserted here. I was somewhat surprised by this.
However, I noticed that Cole’s added text breaks off and
resumes at exactly the same word istinbát. This is a good clue
to the fact that the copyist of the text on H-Bahai (taken from
INBA 59, pp. 275-80) has skipped from one occurrence of a
word to another when copying. I therefore looked around for
other texts of the same tablet and eventually found an
alternative text for the bulk of this tablet in ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd
Ishráq-Khávarí, Rahíq Makhtúm, vol. 1, Tehran: Mu’assisih

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Millí Matbú`át Amrí, 130 B.E., pp. 370-3. This text does have
the missing passage in it. Since there is good evidence as I have
indicated that this is a passage that the copyist of the INBA
text skipped over, I have therefore inserted this passage into the
translation below in square parentheses.
In the next paragraph, we again have Cole translating
“madaniyyat” as “personal status”: “As for the command to
marry, this is entirely a personal status law.” The same
comments as above apply here. However one translates
“madaniyyat,” it means the exact opposite of the personal and
private. Indeed Cole acknowledges as much when, two and
three sentences later, the phrase “qawá’id-i madaniyyat” occurs
twice in successive sentences and is both times translated by
Cole as “the principles of civilization.” If “madaniyyat” here
should be translated as “civilization,” then two sentences
before “madaniyyih” should be translated the same way
(madaniyyat and madaniyyih being two different ways in which
the same Arabic word has been taken over into Persian — the
first as a noun and the second as an adjective): “As for the
command to marry, this is entirely a civil law (or a law of
civilization).”
Despite acknowledging that “madaniyyat” in the phrase
“qawá’id-i madaniyyat” means “civilisation,” three sentences
later, Cole is back to translating “madaní” and, in the next
sentence, “madaniyyih” (madaní is the masculine form of
madaniyyih) as “personal status” (“But this ruling is
implemented in all the Christian denominations, since this
matter is purely one of personal status” and “If you consider,
it will be apparent that this matter — that is, putting personal
status law under the purview of the house of justice — is
remarkably consistent with wisdom”). As before, an adjective
deriving from a root meaning the “polis” or “civis” should be
translated as “civil” or “societal” or “political” but not
“personal status.”
One can also point to the evidence of the next paragraph for
proof that the intention of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is that the House of
Justice has purview over social laws rather than just laws of
personal status. In this next paragraph, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá turns His
attention to the matter of criminal law and makes the point

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
that, in Islam, the matter of those punishments not specified in
the Qur’án was according to the whim of the ruler. However,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá goes on to make the same point again that He
made earlier with respect to marriage law: “this most great cycle
has been so arranged that its laws can remain appropriate to
and in accord with all ages and eras in a way that past systems
of religious law could not” and “this holy, divine, law of God is
appropriate to all times and ages.” This is a clear reference to
the point that H e has made in the preceding paragraph, the
ability of the House of Justice to alter its own rulings. Thus,
on a matter that is clearly a social question, the question of
criminal punishments, and not a matter of personal status,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is again indicating that this is a matter for
reference to the House of Justice. Clearly the punishment for
crimes such as theft and assault, for which there is no
provision in the Kitáb Aqdas, is a social matter and not
“personal status laws.” (I will deal in Part III with Cole’s
contention that this paragraph should be taken to mean that
the Universal House is restricted to rulings on matters of
religious law. I am here dealing only with the translation issue
and am seeking to establish that ahkám-i madaniyyih should be
translated as “social laws” and not as “personal status laws.”)
There is also the sentence that Cole has translated as: “This
was, for the most part, the pivot of the administration of
justice (siyásat) in the Muslim community.” Since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has immediately before this referred to the “ruler” or “those in
power,” it would seem that a better translation, given this
context would be: “This was what leadership among the people
of Islam mostly revolved around” or “This is what government
of the people of Islam mostly revolved around.”
Finally a word on a later alteration that Cole has made. In his
first version, he had the words: “Nevertheless, this blessed cycle
is the greatest of divine dispensations, and for this reason, it
encompasses spiritual and physical aspects.” Later he changed
the translation of “jismání” from “physical” to “of the spiritual
body.” Now the dictionary definition of “jism” is “body,”
“substance” or “flesh” and jismání is the adjective deriving
from this. Thus the alteration that Cole has made has the effect
of changing the meaning of the word from referring to the
physical to referring to the spiritual (i.e. its antonym).

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Cole justifies reversing the universally understood meaning
of this word “jismání” by referring to the writings of Shaykh
Ahmad al-Ahsá’í: “That is, jasad I has a connotation of
primarily the physical body made up of physical elements.
Jasad II has some superlunary elements from the intermediary
plane between the physical world and the imaginal world of
Forms. Jasad I will perish entirely, and only parts of Jasad II
will survive. The post-death, post-resurrectionary body would
be made up of the more ethereal Jism I and Jism II.”
Now there are a number of points to be made in respect to
this alteration which brings in a metaphorical meaning that is
the exact opposite of the plain meaning:
1. While one cannot deny that Shaykh Ahmad did develop
these arcane theories, this fact alone cannot justify the change
of translation here. There are many Shaykhí ideas and
terminologies that did not transfer over to the Bahá’í
scriptures — the word húrqalyá is an example that readily comes
to mind as an example of Shaykhí terminology that did not
transfer to the Bahá’í writings. Before one could accept Cole’s
translation, one would have to see evidence that this particular
usage was adopted in the Bahá’í scriptures. I can find no such
evidence. Indeed one can find evidence of both Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá frequently using the word jism in its ordinary
usage meaning the physical body, for example: “Man, however,
though in body (jism) the captive of nature is yet free in his
mind and soul, and hath the mastery over nature.” (Tablet to Dr
Forel, Bahá’í World, vol. 15, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976, p. 38).
2. That the word jismání refers to physical reality rather than
spiritual reality is confirmed by the context within which the
word appears in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s text. The first sentence states
that “As for the rest of the commandments, they are derivatives
of certitude, faith, assurance and mystical insight” — i.e. they
are of a spiritual nature. He then says “bá vujúd-i ín” — which
means “nevertheless” or “despite this” and, as anyone familiar
with Persian will confirm, sets up the next sentence to be in
some degree of contradiction to the first. Thus the next
sentence cannot mean “it encompasses spiritual aspects and
aspects of the spiritual body” since that would be of similar
meaning to the first sentence and would not give the required
degree of contradiction. Only the plain meaning “physical and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
spiritual aspects (or stages)” — the way that Cole had originally
translated this — would makes sense here. In order to make this
more clear, I give here a word-for-word analysis:
Va amá ahkám sá’irih, far`-i ˆqán
And as for the laws remaining, derivatives of certitude
va imán va itminám va `irfán ast.
and faith and assurance and mystical insight they are.
Bá vujúd ín chún dawr-i mubárak
Nevertheless/despite this because the blessed cycle
a`zam-i advár-i ilahí ast,
the greatest of divine cycles is,
lihadhá jámi` jamí`-yi
therefore/on account of this, the entirety of all of the
marátib-i rawhaní va jismání
stages spiritual and physical
va dar kamál quvvat va saltanat ast.
and in perfect power and sovereignty it is.
3. Furthermore, the phrase which follows immediately on
from this one that Cole wishes to re-translate so that it only
refers to the spiritual is also evidence against his alteration
since it again focusses the attention on the worldly. This
“blessed cycle” is said to be “perfect in its power and
sovereignty (quvvat va saltanat).” The word saltanat refers to
kingship and thus refers to earthly authority. Even when the
word is being used of God, it is referring to his temporal
authority over the world.
4. Much more significant than even these points is the fact
that this whole issue has arisen out of a misreading of the text.
Cole states that the reason that he has made this change is an
apparent contradiction:
For one reason or another I’ve had a little time to
think, lately, and I continued to ponder the apparent

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
contradiction in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s circa 1899 letter on
jurisprudence … At the beginning of the letter, he
reassures his correspondent: `First of all, this divine
cycle is solely spiritual, full of godly compassion, and
is a matter of conscience. It has no connection at all to
physical (jasadí), material (mulkí), or worldly (nasutí)
matters. In the same way, the Christian dispensation
was purely spiritual.’ Then later he says, `Nevertheless,
this
blessed
cycle
is
the
greatest
of
divine
dispensations, and for this reason, it encompasses
spiritual and physical (jismání) aspects and is perfect
in its power and authority.’ These two statements
appear to be in contradiction.
In fact if one studies the text carefully, one finds that the
whole case that Cole has constructed (in his e-mail dated 28
January 2001) is based on his misreading of the text. The whole
of the dichotomy that Cole has set up between jasad and jism
and which he resolves by appeal to Shaykh Ahmad, is based on
an incorrect reading of jismání as jasadí in the first of the two
sentences cited. This sentence should read: “It has no
connection at all to physical (jismání), material (mulki), or
worldly (nasuti) matters.” Cole’s transliteration here (jasadí) is
incorrect — the word in the text is jismání. The alternative text
in Ishráq-Khávarí, Rahíq Makhtúm, also reads jismání. Of
course it would be nonsense to translate jismání in Shaykh
Ahmad’s sense of “spiritual” in this first sentence, where its
meaning, as Cole has acknowledged, is clearly physical and
intended in an opposite sense to rawhaní (spiritual) just before
(“this divine cycle is solely spiritual, full of godly compassion,
and is a matter of conscience. It has no connection at all to
physical, material, or worldly matters”). Therefore, unless we
are going to suggest that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has used the same word
(jismání) with two diametrically opposite meanings in the same
sort of context in the same tablet, it is difficult to see how
Cole’s argument can be sustained.
5. Incidentally, in the first of these two sentences under
consideration, the translation “It has no connection at all to
the physical…” is too strong; the Persian “chandán nadárad”
would be better translated as: “It is not so much concerned
[with the physical]…” — it is an expression of relative and not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
absolute negation — thus allowing for some worldly concerns.
In other words, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s intention is not to negate any
connection at all with worldly matters, but to state that
Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation is primarily spiritual and only
secondarily concerned with worldly affairs. Once this
correction is made, then it can be seen that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s later
statement that “this blessed cycle encompasses all spiritual and
physical aspects” — the sentence that has troubled Cole (“These
two statements appear to be in contradiction”) and caused
him to reinterpret jismání — is longer contradictory and no
change of meaning need be postulated.
6. There is also the interesting phrase: fa saltanatuhá
malakútiyyah
rahmániyyah
wa
ahkámuhá
ilhámiyyah
rawhániyyah (and so its sovereignty is heavenly and divine and
its laws are inspired and spiritual). I may be over-interpreting
here but it seems to me that having just stated that the
Universal House of Justice is under the guidance and
protection of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is here going on to say
that, as a consequence of this, the authority of the House of
Justice is not based on any worldly mandate (i.e. its mandate is
not from those who elect it or any other worldly source), but
rather a Divine one. The second phrase here states that the laws
and ordinances that the Universal House of Justice enacts,
although they appear to be concerning worldly matters (such as
marriage regulations and criminal punishment), are in reality
spiritual in nature, because they are inspired (ilhám) from a
heavenly source. This then explains why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is able to
say in the first part of this tablet that “The first [point to be
made] is this that this divine cycle is purely spiritual, divine
and moral.” What ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is saying is that even where the
Universal House of Justice is legislating in areas of civil laws
(ahkám-i madaniyyih) that are necessary for human social life,
these should not be seen as temporal and secular matters that
can be judged in accordance with the standards and values of
the world, but rather they should be seen as issuing from a
divine source and are thus to be regarded as being part of the
sacred and spiritual sphere. They should thus be regarded in the
same way as the laws given by Bahá’u’lláh.
One can see from all this that this tablet was not generated
by an individual having concerns about “the possible

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
theocratic implications of the legislative role of the house of
justice.” Rather this was a simple and straightforward question
asking
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
the
obvious
point
that:
if
the
Manifestation of God is all-knowing, what then is the wisdom
behind the fact that Bahá’u’lláh did not reveal many social laws,
but
rather
referred
most
social
ordinances
(ahkám-i
madaniyyyih) to the House of Justice? The questioner
presumably asked whether it would not have been better if these
laws were revealed by an all-knowing Manifestation of God,
rather than being left to a group of fallible human beings to
decide. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reassures the questioner that, firstly, this
arrangement by Bahá’u’lláh is in accordance with Divine
wisdom in that it allows for the social ordinances of the
religion to alter as human social conditions change over the
centuries rather than being fixed by a once-and-for-all
revelation; and secondly, the House of Justice, is in any case
inspired and under the guidance and protection of Bahá’u’lláh
and therefore any ruling it makes will have this guidance and
protection and will be the result of this inspiration. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá also goes on to demonstrate how this is a much superior
arrangement to what has occurred in previous dispensations.
A summary of the contents of this tablet:
In this tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá starts by laying down the
principle that the Bahá’í Faith is similar to Christianity in that
its central concern is with spiritual matters and that all legal
matters (ahkám) are derived from this spiritual core. However,
he goes on to state that, since this dispensation is “the most
mighty of Divine dispensations,” it encompasses both the
spiritual and physical concerns of humanity, and has “perfect
power and authority (quvvat va saltanat),” therefore provisions
have also been made for social and political matters: some
foundational core matters are determined in the scripture while
subsidiary matters which may vary with time and circumstance
are referred to the House of Justice.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then goes on to lay down the principle that
since the House of Justice will give its rulings based on the
Divine inspiration (ilhám) that it receives and not on the
opinions of its individual members, it is therefore obligatory
upon all to obey it. In other words that it is not permissible to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
argue that a particular decision of the House of Justice is due
to the biases of one or all of its members and is therefore not
incumbent upon all. It is because of this Divine inspiration
that social and civil ordinances (ahkám madaniyyih) have been
placed under its aegis.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then turns His attention to Islam and states
that because only a little of Islamic law was revealed in the
Qur’án, it became necessary for legal rulings to be derived. As
a consequence the different schools of law arose and there were
disputes between scholars. This in turn led to factions and
schism. Abdu’l-Bahá then states that in the Bahá’í Faith all such
ahkám-i madaniyyih (social or civil ordinances) must be
referred to the Universal House of Justice. Individual legal
opinions have no force unless they are adopted by the Universal
House of Justice.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then moves on to two examples of the point
that he is making. He takes the case of marriage, which He calls
an ahkám-i madaniyyih — a social or civil ordinance. He says
that the main stipulations of this have been laid down in the
revealed law, but the question of marriage of near relatives is
left to the House of Justice. He then goes on to give the
example of Christianity, where, although there was no
scriptural sanction against the marriage of near relatives, the
Christian Councils ruled against it. The second example that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives is that of ta`zír — those punishments for
crimes that are not specified in the scripture. He states that in
Islam this became subject to the whim of the ruler — and was
therefore very variable. He states that in this dispensation, the
ta`zír — those punishments for crimes that are not specified in
the Bahá’í scripture should be referred to the House of Justice.
He extols this as a better method of dealing with this issue
since, otherwise, the same situation as in Islam would arise
where the punishments laid down in the Shari`ah are no longer
acceptable in the modern world. The enactment of such social
regulations and ordinances in the Bahá’í dispensation will be
“compatible with all ages and cycles,” He states, because it will
be referred to the House of Justice, and each successive House
of Justice can abrogate the rulings of its predecessors.

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
II. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning
of the Universal House of Justice — a
provisional translation
In this part, I present a translation of this tablet. This
translation is more literal than Cole’s, and some may therefore
find it more difficult to read, but I thought a more literal
translation was appropriate. I have kept to the text from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Majmú`ih-yi Makátib-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Collected
Letters of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá). Copied 1318/1900. Iran National
Bahá’í Archives, Volume 59, pp. 275-280, published on H-Bahai
at:
http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/  bahai/abtext.htm,
except
where, for reasons that I have indicated in Part I, I have
included a passage of almost 30 words (“from the derivations
and endorsements of the House of Justice … no differences will
arise, whereas”) in square parentheses translated from an
alternative text at Ishraq-Khavari, Rahiq Makhtum, vol. 1, pp.
370-3.
He is the All-Glorious!
O you who are clinging fast to the hem of Covenant,
your letter was read and your detailed questions were
noted. Although calamities, like deadly poison, have
affected my limbs, my members and my joints, such
that my pen is prevented from writing and my tongue
from speaking, and my tasks are so many that it is not
possible to describe them, yet nevertheless, out of the
great love that this servant has for that gentleman, a
spiritual answer will be given, which will be compatible
with Divine wisdom, concise and illuminating,
perfectly
explaining
the
matter.
It
will
be
a
comprehensive explanation concerning this question
and will contain acceptable and sought-after insights
such that by this explanation, clarification, analysis,
allusion, commentary and spiritual interpretation, one
hundred doors will be opened up by each of its doors.
Otherwise, were the horizons to become pages, it
would not be enough to encompass [this theme].
You have asked about the wisdom of assigning some of
the important legislation (ahkám) to the House of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Justice. The first [point to be made] is this that this
divine cycle is purely spiritual (rawhání), divine
(rahmání) and moral (vujdání). It is not so much
concerned with the physical (jismání), the worldly
(mulkí) or with the stages of material existence (shu’ún-i
násutí). Similarly, the Christian cycle was purely
spiritual and in the entirety of the Gospels, there is
nothing except the prohibition of divorce and an
allusion to the lifting of the [law of the] Sabbath. All of
the laws (ahkám) are spiritual and the morals divine.
Just as it is said: “The Son of Man did not come to
judge the world but to give it life.” [cf. Jn 3:17; 12:47]
Now this great cycle is also purely spiritual and is the
giver of eternal life, for the fundamental basis of the
religion of God is to adorn [people] with good
character, to improve them with virtuous conduct and
to regulate their interactions. The intention is this that
beings who were veiled [from the light] might attain to
the vision [of His Beauty] and that darksome reality
might become filled with light.
As for the other commandments, they are derivatives
of certitude, faith, assurance and mystical insight.
Nevertheless, because this blessed cycle is the most
mighty of divine dispensations, it encompasses all of
the spiritual and physical aspects [of human life]
(marátib-i rawhaní va jismání) and is perfect in its
power and sovereignty (quvvat va saltanat). Therefore
those universal (all-encompassing) matters which are
the foundations of the holy law (sharí`at) of God are
revealed (mansús) [in the scriptures] and all secondary
(subsidiary) matters (mutafarri`át) are to be referred to
the House of Justice.
The wisdom of this is that time does not stand still.
Change and alteration are among the specific and
necessary conditions of contingent existence and of
time and space. Therefore the House of Justice is able
to act in accordance with the needs of the time
(exigencies). It should not be thought that the House of
Justice acts on the basis of its own thoughts and
opinions. God forbid! The Universal (Most Mighty)

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
House of Justice (bayt al-`adl-i a`zam) will make its
decisions and enact its laws through the inspiration of
the Holy Spirit (rúh al-quds), for it is under the guard,
protection, and succour of the Ancient Beauty.
Whatsoever it decides is obligatory, indisputable,
necessary, and definitive for all. There is no recourse
for anyone.
Say: O people! The Universal House of Justice is
[sheltered] beneath the wing of your Lord, the
Merciful, the Compassionate — that is to say, under
His protection, His defence, His safe-keeping, and His
guard. For He has ordered the believers and the assured
ones to obey this goodly and pure group, this holy and
victorious assemblage. Therefore its sovereignty is
heavenly and divine and its laws (ahkám, ordinances)
are inspired and spiritual.
Thus, this is the intention and the wisdom of referring
social
ordinances
(ahkám-i
madaniyyih)
to
the
Universal House of Justice. In the holy law (sharí`at) of
Islam (Furqán), also, all of the laws were not revealed
(mansús) [in the Qur’án]. Indeed, not one thousandth
were revealed. Although all important matters were
mentioned, yet one hundred thousand laws were not
mentioned. Later the `ulama derived (istinbát) them
according to the rules (qavá’id) of the [science of] the
Principles [of Jurisprudence] (úsúl). In those early
[schools] of law (shará’í`), the individual members of
the `ulama would derive (istinbát) these [laws]
differently and they were implemented. Now, the
[process of] deriving [the law] is to be referred to the
House of Justice and the derivation (istinbát) and
elicitation (istikhráj) of individual learned persons
(`ulamá) has no authority, unless the House of Justice
endorses it. The difference is just this that [from the
derivations and endorsements of the House of Justice,
whose members are elected and have the confidence of
the generality of the community, no differences will
arise, whereas] from the derivations (istinbát) of the
members of the learned and wise comes about
differences and this leads to sectarian splitting,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
separation and division. The unity of discourse and
the oneness of the religion of God would disappear and
the foundations of the law (sharí`at) of God would be
shaken.
As for the command to marry, this is entirely a social
law (ahkám-i madanniyat). Despite this, its conditions
are stipulated and its fundamentals are made clear in
the law (sharí`at) of God. However, the marriage of near
relatives is not revealed [in the scripture] (ghayr-i
mansús). It is referred to the House of Justice, who will
make decisions based on the principles of civilisation
(qavá’id-i madaniyyat), the exigencies of medicine,
wisdom, and the tendencies of human nature. There is
no doubt that (marriage with) distant stock is closer to
the principles of civilization, medicine, and nature,
than with closely related peoples. And consider this
observation: in Christian holy law (sharí`at), although
marriage to near relatives (aqárib) was in fact
permitted, in that its prohibition was not revealed [in
scripture] (mansús), nevertheless, the early Christian
councils prohibited the marriage of near relatives to
seven
degrees
of
separation
(literally
“seven
generations” — i.e. those who have a common ancestor
seven generations back). Moreover this is implemented
in all of the sects of Christianity because this is purely
a social (madaní) matter. Now anything the House of
Justice decides in this matter, that is the definitive and
decisive divine law. No-one may infringe it.
If you consider it, you will see how much this referral
of social laws (ahkám-i madaniyyih) to the House of
Justice is consistent with wisdom. For whenever a
difficulty arises because a compelling circumstance has
arisen, at that time, because the House of Justice has
decided the previous ruling (qarár), a particular House
of Justice can again, because of specific compelling
circumstances, issue a new specific ruling for this
particular case and circumstance, and thus the danger
may be completely averted. For whatsoever the House
of Justice has decreed, that it can also abrogate.

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
In Islam, there was also the matter of punishments that
were not decreed in the holy law (ta`zír). These were
referred to those in authority. Since there was no
revealed law (nasúsí) about the extent of such
punishments (ta`zír), it was determined by and
dependant upon the whim (ra’y) of the person in
power. And these punishments ranged from verbal
censure to the death penalty. This is what government
(siyásat) of the people of Islam mostly revolved around.
In
any
case,
the
foundation
of
this
mighty
dispensation has been arranged in such a manner that
its laws will be in accordance with and suitable for
every age and time, unlike the holy laws (shará’í`) of the
past, the implementation of which are now suspended
or impossible. For example, observe that the laws of the
Torah are in no way capable of being implemented
today, since there are ten capital offenses in it.
Similarly, according to the holy law (sharí`at) of Islam
(Furqán), the hand is to be cut off for stealing ten
dirhams. Now, is the implementation of such a law
possible? No! By God! But this holy and divine law is
compatible with all ages and centuries and the passing
of time. “Thus have we made you a middle people, that
you may be a witness unto the people and the
Messenger may be a witness to you.” (Qur’án 2:137)
The eloquent poetry and the consummate verses that
have been composed with delectable contents should be
recited and sung. Truly they are worthy of being
chanted in the assemblies of divine unity. Upon you be
glory. `A[bdu’l-Bahá] `A[bbás]
III. On the Functioning of the Universal
House of Justice — some further comments
Having considered the translation of this important tablet
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and demonstrated that far from limiting the
Universal House of Justice to merely legislating on matters of
“personal status laws,” it in fact gives the House the authority
to enact laws and decisions affecting social or “civilizational”
matters (ahkám madaniyyih), we need now to consider the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
effect that this has on the rest of Cole’s argument. Cole has
used his translation of this tablet as evidence for his assertion
made frequently elsewhere that the phrase “umúr siyásiyyih” in
the Tablet of Ishráqát does not mean “matters of state” as
Shoghi Effendi has translated it, but in fact means “the
administration of religious law.”
Cole has argued that, in this tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
the jurisdiction of the Universal House of Justice extends to
the “ahkám madaniyyih” and, translating this phrase as
“personal status laws,” contends that this supports his
interpretation of the phrase “umúr siyásiyyih” as referring only
to the administration of religious law. Having demonstrated
above that Cole is incorrect in his interpretation of “ahkám
madaniyyih,” this not only cancels out Cole’s argument in
relation to the “umúr siyásiyyih,” it also provides evidence
against Cole’s interpretation and supporting Shoghi Effendi’s
interpretation. If ‘Abdu’l-Bahá regards the functions of the
Universal House of Justice as including “ahkám madaniyyih”
and this phrase should be interpreted as referring to social and
civilisational laws, then this is evidence that “umúr siyásiyyih”
in Ishráqát also refers to social and governmental matters and
not just the administration of religious law, as Cole has
argued.
Cole has argued that the words siyásat and siyássiyyih when
used by Bahá’u’lláh do not have their modern meanings of
politics and political. He states that these are a later meaning
inappropriately imposed. He maintains that the real meaning
of these words as used by Bahá’u’lláh relates to their medieval
and early modern usage which comprises of two main sets of
meaning: first, “the Greco-Islamic concept of leadership a la
Aristotle”; second, “the Islamic juridical concept of as-siyasah
ash-shar`iyyah (post-scriptural ordinances enacted by the
community’s authorities).” Of these two, Cole favours the
second in this context because he holds that the reference by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to marriage laws (which are considered as part of
mu`ámalát — religious law governing the relations between
believers) and ta`zír (punishments that have not been defined in
the scriptures) in this tablet that we are discussing means that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was using this term in the context of religious
jurisprudence and therefore this second meaning in the correct

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
one. He then also argues that similarly because, in Ishráqát,
Bahá’u’lláh introduces the term “umúr siyásiyyih” in the
context of the words “ibádát” which is a technical term in
religious jurisprudence that relates to “acts of worship,”
therefore the term “umúr siyásiyyih” should also be restricted
to the sphere of religious jurisprudence. Thus he claims that
this means that the Houses of Justice should only be permitted
to “administer religious law not specified in scripture” and not
enter into “matters of state” as implied by Shoghi Effendi’s
translation.
There are a number of comments that can be made about
Cole’s position. Among them are the following:
1. In this tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that we are considering, we
can see a progressive unfoldment by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá of His
concept of the area that the Bahá’í Faith covers and the division
of this area between the revealed text and the functions of the
House of Justice. At the beginning of this tablet there is a mere
hint when He declares that although the Bahá’í message is
primarily a spiritual one, nevertheless this “greatest of all divine
cycles” encompasses “the entirety of all (jámi` jamí`-yi) spiritual
and physical (rawhaní va jismání) stages (or aspects or stations,
marátib). He does not make any exceptions here — jámi`-yi
jamí`-yi could be called a doubled emphatic — two words with
the same meaning used to emphasise a point. He then later
spells out that whatever matter arises that is not specifically
revealed in the text should be referred to the Universal House of
Justice. And finally He is quite explicit and completely clear
that what He is referring to as being under the jurisdiction of
the Universal House of Justice are the ahkám-i madaniyyih —
laws and ordinances relating to social, civil or governmental
matters.
2. As Cole has correctly stated in his commentary on this
tablet, the Qur’án has relatively little law in it. In the matter of
criminal law, only six offences are specified. Thus, again as
Cole correctly points out: “In Islam, the authority to enact
extra-scriptural ‘ordinances’ (ahkám) based on scriptural
principle tended to be invested in the ruler in early centuries.”
However, he then seems to imply that these ordinances are
limited to just “the ethical and spiritual life or personal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
status.” In fact, the ordinances (ahkám) of rulers in Islam cover
all aspects of social and political life. Thus in this tablet,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is decrying the situation in the Islamic world
where ordinances and rulings covering social and political
matters are subject to the individual interpretations of the
ruling class. He states that in the Bahá’í Faith all such ahkám-i
madaniyyih (social laws or ordinances) must be referred to the
Universal House of Justice. Thus, according to this tablet, the
ahkám that are referred to the House of Justice are not just
matters
relating
to
personal
status
or
inter-personal
relationships (i.e. the area of mu`ámalát), but rather all matters
relating to civil and social issues (madaniyyat) — in other
words the area normally regulated by the state. Thus ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s words in this tablet support Shoghi Effendi’s
translation of umúr-i siyásiyyih as “matters of state.”
3. In his argument, Cole states that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has defined
what He means by siyásat when He says that “This was, for the
most part, the pivot of the administration of justice (siyasat)
in the Muslim community.” As can be seen from the preceding
translation, I have considered it better, given the context, to
translate this as: “This is what government of the people of
Islam mostly revolved around.” In any case, I do not see this
sentence as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá defining what siyásat is, rather He is
making an observation that much of the time of the rulers in
the Islamic world was taken up with ruling on such matters.
Even if we do allow Cole’s interpretation of this sentence to
stand, this statement by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá only defines siyásat in
relation to the “people of Islam.” This must be seen in the
context of the following sentence that starts “bárí” which
means “in any event,” “in any case” or “anyhow” — in other
words this following sentence is being set up in opposition to
the previous sentence: “In any case, the foundation of this
mighty dispensation has been arranged in such a manner that
its laws will be in accordance with and suitable for every age
and time…” Thus even if we allow Cole’s limiting siyása to the
administration of the religious law in Islam, the following
sentence is saying that that situation does not hold in this, the
Bahá’í dispensation. It is saying that, in the Bahá’í
dispensation, siyása is different to siyása in Islam. So that
however we define the word siyása for the Islamic world, it

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
does not necessarily follow that the same definition holds in the
Bahá’í dispensation. The limits of siyása in the Bahá’í
dispensation is mapped out by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá through His use of
the term ahkám-i madaniyya — laws relating to social or civil
matters — a term clearly encompassing all aspects of human
social life. In other words, regardless of what the limits of the
term siyása were in the Islamic dispensation, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is
here extending the limits of siyása in the Bahá’í dispensation to
include all aspects of human social life. This wide meaning of
the term siyása can then be transferred to the Ishráqát. Here
Bahá’u’lláh is saying that matters of worship (`ibádát — prayer,
fasting, etc.) should be performed in accordance with the
Scripture (i.e. the laws of the Aqdas), but umúr-i siyásiyyih
(which we know from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s gloss to be equivalent to
ahkám-i madaniyyih — laws and ordinances pertaining to social
and civil matters) should be referred to the House of Justice.
And we can be sure that Bahá’u’lláh in this passage is intending
the same range of meaning that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá intended in this
tablet because Bahá’u’lláh uses precisely the same argument that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses — that this is in order that these social
ordinances should remain in accordance with changing human
requirements.
Thus Bahá’u’lláh’s usage, umúr -i siyásiyyih, here is perfectly
in alignment with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s term ahkám-i madaniyyih and
refers to those areas of human life that require social
regulation. Now Shoghi Effendi’s translation of Bahá’u’lláh’s
umúr -i siyásiyyih as “affairs of state” seems to me to fit well
within this semantic range. In any civilised society (“civilised”
being here used as meaning an urbanised society), there is need
for communal regulation and therefore human beings have set
up a state structure to regulate their affairs. At the head of this
state structure is either an individual or a body of people
whose function is to enact such communal and social
regulations as may be required in order to allow human social
life to continue in peace and prosperity, in order to allow
civilization to develop and prosper. Thus those areas of human
communal life that require regulation can be described in
English as “affairs of state” and in Persian as umúr-i siyásiyyih;
and for this regulation, they require the enactment of social
ordinances — ahkám-i madaniyyih. Thus Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and Shoghi Effendi’s usages are all consistently within the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
same range of meaning: that which should be referred to the
House of Justice for their enactment of ordinances are those
areas of human social life that require regulation in order for
human civilization to continue; since it is the function of the
state to regulate such areas of human life, these areas of human
social life can be called “affairs of state.”
4. It is also of interest to look at the context in which the
phrase “umúr-i siyásiyyih” occurs in the Ishráqát. In the very
next passage, the ninth Ishráq, the following statement is made:
“The purpose of religion as revealed from the heaven of God’s
holy Will is to establish unity and concord amongst the peoples
of the world … The progress of the world, the development of
nations, the tranquillity of peoples, and the peace of all who
dwell on earth are among the principles and ordinances of
God.” Then a couple of sentences later, Bahá’u’lláh lists “the
Trustees of the House of Justice” among the chiefs and rulers
of the world — again this sounds very much as though
Bahá’u’lláh envisages a political and governmental role for the
House of Justice (provided the word “political” is understood
in its sense of social administration and not in the sense of
party politics).
On can also look at other statements that Bahá’u’lláh makes
about Universal House of Justice. For example, in the Law˙-i
Dunyá which dates to about the same period as the Ishráqát, it
is made incumbent upon the “ministers of the House of Justice
to promote the Lesser Peace so that the people of the earth may
be relieved from the burden of exorbitant expenditures.” This
sounds very much like a governmental role for the House of
Justice.
5. Of course in considering this matter, it is useful to survey
what exactly the words siyása and siyásiyyih have meant over a
period of time, and specially in Islamic religious literature.
In the Qur’án, the words siyása and siyásiyyih do not occur.
In the hadith literature, which is some of the earliest post-
Qur’ánic literature that we have, the word siyásat does occur
in a tradition that is widely reported in the early and
authoritative collections of al-Bukhárí, Muslim and Ibn Hanbal
(c. 9th century). In this Tradition the evident meaning of the
word is “looking after.” A woman, the daughter of Abu Bakr, is

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
speaking about her household duties and her tending of a horse
and at the end of the Tradition, she says:
(I continued serving in this way) till Abu Bakr sent me a
servant to look after the horse (siyásat al-faras),
whereupon I felt as if he had set me free. (Hadith in Sahíh
Bukhárí — chapter of al-Nikah, hadith number 151 — 107 in some
editions, 4823 in al-`Alamiyyih CD; also in Sahíh Muslim, Kitáb
as-Salám and Musnad of Ibn Hanbal, no 25700, 25733).
This meaning of “looking after” can still be found in books
from a much later period. In Sharh Sahíh Muslim (in
explanation of hadith 3429) by an-Nawawi (13th century AD),
“siyása” is defined thus: “arising to do for a thing what is
beneficial to it” (al-qiyám `ala ‘sh-shay’ bi-má yuslihu). This
same explanation can also be found in Sharh Sunan Ibn Majah
by al-Sindí (d. 1138; in explanation of hadith 2862).
However, this function of “looking after” people is so
closely connected with the function of leadership that, in many
passages, it is difficult to tell whether “looking after” or
“leadership over” is the more appropriate translation. Thus in
the Fath al-Barí bi-Sharh Sahíh al-Bukharí by Ibn Hajar al-
`Asqalání (d. 1449), the following occurs: “knowledge (al-`ilm)
here is knowledge of siyása (leadership of / looking after) of the
people according to the Book of God and the Sunna of the
Messenger of God.” (Hadith 3405) In the same work, in discussing
the two words Rabb and Sayyid as names of God, the author
cites al-Khattábi as defining sayáda as “leadership (riyása) over
anyone who is beneath him and siyása lahu (authority has been
given to him over them?), and looking after their affairs well
(husnu tadbír li amrihi).” (Hadith 2366)
In the Tuhfat al-Ahwadhi bi Sharh Jami` at-Tirmidhi by al-
Mubarakfuri (d.1935) also, siyasa is used in contexts where it
could equally well mean “looking after” or “leadership” as
attested by the following quotation (in explanation of hadith
2100): “The tyranny of the Sultan spread over all who are tahta
siyasatihi (beneath his authority/under his care).”
However, I am sure that Cole would agree that the best was
of determining what siyása and siyásiyyih meant in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is to examine further
examples of how They use the word in different places in Their

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
writings. After all, it really does not matter much how other
people at other times used these words. If we can discern from
a close examination of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and His close
circle, which would include of course ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (especially
His writings from as close to the time of Bahá’u’lláh as
possible), how They used these words, then that would be the
best way of determining what “umúr-i siyásiyyih” means in the
Ishráqát.
Firstly, this same phrase umúr-i siyássiyih, set within the
same sentence occurs also in the Bishárát (the 13th glad
tidings), but since the context is exactly the same, this
occurrence does not assist us.
Both in the Bishárát and the Ishráqát, these passage start
with the statement that: umúr-i millat mu`allaq ast bi rijál-i
bayt-i `adl-i iláhí, which is translated in the official translation
as: “The men of God’s House of Justice have been charged with
the affairs of the people.” Cole has argued that here Bahá’u’lláh
uses millat in its technical Ottoman sense of a religious
community (in line with his contention that siyásí refers to the
administration of religious law). However, even if Cole does
argue along these lines for this particular passage, he cannot
deny other passages where siyásah and siyásí are relative to
`álam (the world) and nás (people) rather than millat. For
example, in the Law˙-i Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), which
dates to the same period as the Ishráqát, there is the following
passage, in which I have inserted transliteration into the
official translation:
Say: The beginning of Wisdom and the origin thereof is
to acknowledge whatsoever God hath clearly set forth,
for
through
its
potency
the
foundation
of
statesmanship (bunyán as-siyásah), which is a shield for
the preservation of the body of mankind (badan al-
`álam), hath been firmly established. Ponder a while that
ye may perceive what My most exalted Pen hath
proclaimed in this wondrous Tablet. Say, every matter
related to state affairs (kullu amrin siyásiyyin) which ye
raise for discussion falls under the shadow of one of
the words sent down from the heaven of His glorious
and exalted utterance (TB 151)

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Here the foundation of siyásah is stated to be a shield for the
protection of the whole world — not just that of a specific
religious community — the Bahá’í community.
In another passage in the Law˙-i Maqsúd (which again dates
from the late `Akka period), siyásat occurs several times, once
linked to nufús-i álam (souls of the world) and once to nás
(people) but not to millat. In this passage, it is again clear that
siyásat refers to temporal, governmental affairs, and not to the
administration of religion law, because the ámir (temporal
ruler) is addressed. This word ámir refers to the secular
authority and it would be unusual to find it designating a
religious leader. Perhaps even more significant is the use of the
phrase siyásat-i `álam — indicating that what is being spoken of
is “the government of the whole world” and not that of a
specific
religious
community.
Again
I
have
inserted
transliteration into the official translation:
God grant that the people of the world (nufús-i `álam)
may be graciously aided to preserve the light of His
loving counsels within the globe of wisdom. We cherish
the hope that everyone (kull) may be adorned with the
vesture of true wisdom, the basis of the government of
the world (ass-i asás-i siyásat-i `álam).
The Great Being saith: The heaven of statesmanship
(ásmán-i siyásat) is made luminous and resplendent by
the brightness of the light of these blessed words which
hath dawned from the dayspring of the Will of God: It
behoveth every ruler (li-kulli ámirin) to weigh his own
being every day in the balance of equity and justice and
then to judge between men and counsel them to do that
which would direct their steps unto the path of wisdom
and understanding. This is the cornerstone of
statesmanship and the essence thereof (ass-i siyásat va
asl-i án) … The secrets of statesmanship (asrár-i siyásat)
and that of which the people (nás) are in need lie
enfolded within these words. (TB 166-67)
Not surprisingly, the main place to which we should look for
the meaning of siyása and siyásiyyih in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s writings
is in the Risálih-yi Siyásiyyih (Treatise on Leadership or
Politics). This is not only because these words figure in the title

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
and frequently in the text of this work, but also because the
work itself is dated to about the same period of time as the
Ishráqát and thus accurately reflects the usage of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at this time. The Ishráqát dates from the late
`Akká period of Bahá’u’lláh’s life, while the Risalih-yi Siyásiyyih
can be dated to about 1892 because of the historical references
in it.
The following are some passages in which Cole himself has
translated umúr siyásí as “political affairs” — I am here citing
Cole’s own translation (http://www.h-net.org/bahai/trans/
vol2/absiyasi.htm) and merely inserting some transliteration of
the text:
Toward the end of the dynasty of the Safavid kings
[1501-1722], may they rest in peace, the religious leaders
(`ulamá) sought influence over the political affairs
(umúr-i siyásí) of Iran.
This was the fruit of the interference in political
affairs (umúr-i siyásí) of religious leaders and of those
accomplished in the unassailable revealed law.
On another occasion, at the beginning of the reign of
Aqa Mu˙ammad Khan [Qajar, r. 1785-1797], the
religious leaders of the people once again interjected
themselves into political affairs (umúr siyásí), and
thereby covered Iran’s peoples with the dust of
abasement.
Praise be to God! Shall persons who are unable to
manage or train up their own households, who are
wholly uninformed both with regard to domestic and
foreign affairs, interfere in the proceedings of the
kingdom and its subjects, or intervene in the
intricacies of political matters (umúr siyásí)?
Were you to refer to history, you would find
innumerable, and, indeed, infinite numbers of such
occurrences, the cause of which in every instance was
the interference of religious leaders (ru’asá-yi dín) in
political affairs (umúr siyásiyyih).

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Otherwise, what expertise do they have in political
matters (umúr siyásí), the protection of the subjects,
the managing of serious affairs, the welfare and
prosperity of the country, the implementation of the
civil regulations and secular laws of a realm, or foreign
affairs and domestic policy?
If Cole were to object that the Risálih-yi Siyásiyyih dates
from after the Ishráqát (and this would be an unfair objection
since this tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that he is citing as support for
his position is from long after even the Siyásiyyih), then we can
look
at
the
Risálih-yi
Madaniyyih
(Secret
of
Divine
Civilization). This book was written in about 1875 and thus
preceded the Ishráqát. Here we find siyásiyyih or siyásí being
used consistently as an adjective to denote “political” or
“governmental” (I have given the Marzieh Gail translation,
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990, below with added
transliteration
and
notes
as
to
possible
alternative
translations):
The greatest of the world’s philosophers marveled at the
wisdom of her government, and her political system (qavánín
siyásiyyih-ash) became the model for all the kings of the four
continents then known.” Qavánín siyásiyyih-ash would
perhaps be more accurately rendered as “governmental laws,”
but it is difficult to see how siyásiyyih could mean anything
other than “political,” “state” or “governmental” here.
Another maintains that only such measures should be
adopted as the Persians themselves devise, that they themselves
should reform their political administration (isláhát lázimih
siyásiyyih) and their educational system and the state of their
culture and that there is no need to borrow improvements from
other nations.” Isláhát lázimih siyásiyyih would be more
literally translated as “the necessary political reforms.”
The state (`álam-i siyásí) is, moreover, based upon two
potent forces, the legislative and the executive.” `Álam-i siyásí
could be translated “the state” or “the political sphere” or the
“the body politic.” Clearly it is not referring to the religious
sphere.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The world of politics (`álam-i siyásí) is like the world of man;
he is seed at first, and then passes by degrees to the condition
of embryo and foetus … Just as this is a requirement of
creation and is based on the universal Wisdom, the political
world (`álam-i siyásí) in the same way cannot instantaneously
evolve from the nadir of defectiveness to the zenith of rightness
and perfection. Rather, qualified individuals must strive by
day and by night, using all those means which will conduce to
progress, until the government and the people (dawlat va millat)
develop along every line from day to day and even from
moment to moment.
Another work of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá dates from the same period as
the writing of the Ishráqát. This is the Traveller’s Narrative
(written 1886). So we can expect it to reflect accurately the
same range of meaning that words in the Ishráqát have.
Interestingly the phrase umúr siyásiyyih appears in this text and
E.G. Browne has translated the relevant passage thus: “It is
right to exercise caution and care with regard to political
factions (ahzáb-i siyásí), and to be fearful and apprehensive of
materialist sects; for the subjects occupying the thoughts of the
former are [designs of] interference in political matters (umúr-i
siyásiyyih)…” It can clearly be seen from the context that the
translation “political” is correct here and any translation
related to “ordinances by a post-revelational authority” would
be nonsense.
In numerous tablets, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements regarding
the principle of Bahá’ís not meddling in political affairs is
phrased using exactly the same phrase of umúr-i siyásí or umúr-i
siyásiyyih; for example, in the Traveller’s Narrative which as we
have seen is more or less contemporaneous with the Ishráqát,
we find two successive sentences in which umúr siyásiyí is made
the cognate of umúr-i hukúmat (governmental affairs). I give
here E.G. Browne’s translation:
If so be that His Majesty the King will investigate
matters in his own noble person, it is believed that it
will become clear before his presence that this sect have
no worldly object nor any concern with political
matters (umúr-i siyásí). The fulcrum of their motion
and rest and the pivot of their cast and conduct is

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
restricted to spiritual things and confined to matters
of conscience; it has nothing to do with the affairs of
government (umúr-i hukúmat) nor any concern with the
powers of the throne. (Traveller’s Narrative, vol. 2,
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891, p. 156)
Clearly then E.G. Browne, a man who was intimately familiar
with word usages in late 19th century Iran, in translating a
work of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that is almost exactly contemporaneous
with the Ishráqát, thought the correct translation of umúr-i
siyásiyyih was “political matters.”
In a tablet dating probably to the period of the Young Turk
Revolution:
… [My] intention is this that you should make the
officials of the everlasting Ottoman government
understand to the extent that they ought that the party
of God (hizb Alláh) does not meddle at all in political
affairs (umúr-i siyásiyyih). They are forbidden to do his
according to the irrefutable text [of their scripture].
And if any person from among this people does meddle
in political affairs (umúr-i siyasí), the others should
keep their distance from him that haply he may repent
… meddling in political affairs (umúr siyásí) ends in
regret; it is of no benefit or help; it is necessary to keep
away from all parties (ahzáb). (Makátíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 8
vols., vols. 1-3 Cairo, 1910-22, vols. 4-8 Tihran: Mu`assisih Millí
Mabú`át Amrí, 121-34 B.E./1964-1977, vol. 4, pp. 71-2)
… Obey those in authority (awliyá-yi umúr) and do not
meddle in political affairs (umúr-i siyásí) (Makátíb-i
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 3, p. 254)
… That spiritual assembly must not raise opposition in
political maters (umúr-i siyásí) which are under the
jurisdiction of the local government (hukúmat-i
mahallí). They should not even breathe one word of
political matters (umúr-i siyásí). (Makátíb-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
vol. 3, p. 507)
In a letter, which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá probably wrote in about
1902-3 to Mírzá `Alí Akbar Nakhjavání that with regard to
Count Tolstoy, Nakhjavání should write to him and send him
some suitable translated tablets, “but not in such a way that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
the Russian Government would think that you are in league and
co-operating with him, even in meddling in political affairs
(umúr-i siyásat), for the afore-mentioned Count is very much
involved in political affairs (umúr-i siyásí). (Ma’idih Asmání, 9
vols., Tehran: Mu’assisih Millí Matbú`át Amrí, 121-29
B.E./1964-1972, vol. 9, p. 40). Of course, no-one would try to
maintain that Tolstoy’s activities could be described as
“ordinances by a post-revelational authority.”
And concerning an individual who was very much involved
in Persian politics, Mírzá Malkum Khan, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá starts a
tablet written shortly after Mírzá Malkum Khan’s death in
1908: “In this world, a thousand politicians (siyásiyyún) have
come and gone and have spread abroad upon the earth many
important publications (nashriyyát), but now we do not find
any mention or trace of them. Mírzá Malkam Khan (upon him
be mercy and contentment) brought out political publications
(nashriyyát siyásí) for fifty years … (Ma’idih Asmání, vol. 9, pp.
143-4). Now anyone who knows anything about Persian history
and Malkam Khan will know that his activities were purely
political and had nothing to do with “ordinances by a post-
revelational authority,” thus there can be no reasonable doubt
about the intended sense of the word siyásí here.
Thus we can find plenty of evidence that Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá were using these terms to relate to what we could
call “affairs of state” or “governmental affairs.” Cole quite
rightly points out that to translate siyása and siyásiyyih as
referring to “politics” and “political” would probably not
convey the correct intention of the word in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh. These words are for us at the beginning of the 21th
century inextricably bound up with party politics and the
manoeuvrings of politicians. The words siyása and siyásiyyih
derived however, as we have seen above, from the sense of
looking after others and hence leadership. It thus came to
mean, in the autocratic states of the Middle East, the ruler’s
function of leadership and looking after his subjects and his
state.
“Umúr-i
siyásiyyih”
can
thus
be
translated
as
“governmental affairs” or “political affairs” (provided this
latter is understood in its sense of the administration of a
state and not in the sense of party politics) or indeed as Shoghi
Effendi has translated it “affairs of state.”

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
6. Cole brings forward, in his discussion of the contents of
this tablet (e-mail of 12 January 2001), an argument from
Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Risáliyyih-yi
Siyásiyyih
(the
Treatise
on
Leadership or Politics) to support his contention that the
House of Justice should restrict itself to “personal status
regulations and ethics within the Bahá’í community.” He
maintains that in this treatise ‘Abdu’l-Bahá “made it clear that
the civil sphere and the religious sphere would always remain
completely separate; and that religious leaders were not to
intervene in civil government except when they were actively
asked for their views by politicians.” I do not want to get into
the “separation of church and state” argument which has been
rehearsed at length previously in several places. It would be
sufficient for the purpose of this discussion to say that I think
that to try to superimpose American ideas of the separation of
church and state upon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ideas as put forward in
the Risáliyyih-yi Siyásiyyih is a mistake. In this treatise
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives an account of several historical occasions in
which religious leaders in Iran have intervened in political
affairs
with
disastrous
consequences.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
conclusion from this is that the clerical class should not
intervene in politics. It would be a misrepresentation of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to map this conclusion of His directly and in an
un-nuanced way onto the situation in the Bahá’í Faith. The
Bahá’í Faith does not have a clerical class. It has no religious
professionals who are trained in religious colleges. Therefore it
does not have that class of people whose participation in
politics ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was decrying in the Risálih-yi Siyásiyyih.
Leadership in the Bahá’í Faith is given to councils of people
elected from among the ordinary believers for limited terms of
office and does not therefore represent the sort of professional
religious leadership to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is referring. Thus it
is not appropriate to bring that position of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá into
this discussion.
I would also take issue with the characterisation of this view
of the functioning of the Universal House of Justice as a
“theocratic reading” (e-mail of 12 Jan 2001). This word is
generally used very loosely. Its strict meaning, “rule by God,”
can only be a faith-based theological assertion, which would be
quite unverifiable objectively and which would have no place in
an academic historical or sociological work. However, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
word “theocracy” is usually loosely used to refer to rule by a
priesthood or clerical class — a meaning that would be more
accurately rendered by the word “hierocracy” — rule by a
priesthood or sacred class. In any case, as I have stated above,
the Bahá’í Faith does not have a clerical class. Its leadership by
institutions elected from among the ordinary rank-and-file of
the members of the religion with no specialised religious
training cannot be classed as a hierocracy or theocracy.
Moreover, theocracies/hierocracies have a number of
features that are not shared by the Bahá’í institutions:
1. Hierocratic/theocratic governments tend to be unelected
and answerable to no-one. Bahá’í institutions are elected
and hence must seek, at present every year (or every five
years in the case of the Universal House of Justice), a
further mandate from their electorate.
2. Hierocratic/theocratic governments tend to give a higher
rank or status to those who are members of the clerical
class, and hence members of the ruling class. They, as
individuals, have rights and privileges over the ordinary
believers and members of society. Bahá’u’lláh has clearly
stated in several places, but most specifically in the
Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i Ittihád) that all of the Bahá’ís are
to consider themselves as being of one rank. No-one has
individual
leadership.
Leadership
belongs
to
the
institutions of the Bahá’í Faith, acting as institutions
(i.e. not their individual members). Thus members of the
Bahá’í institutions should not be regarded as members of
a ruling class that has any rights or privileges over the
ordinary believers.
3. Moreover the functioning of these Bahá’í institutions
does not replicate that typical of theocratic/hierocratic
institutions. It is true that Bahá’í institutions like
theocratic/hierocratic ones base their decisions on their
scriptures. However, the Bahá’í scriptures contain
mainly general ethical principles rather than detailed laws
and are thus in practice rarely prescriptive in any given
situation. In their decision-making, therefore, members
of Bahá’í institutions are acting on their own sense of
right and wrong (as guided by general ethical principles)

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
rather than applying a prescriptive Holy Law. Thus they
are functioning more like the members of a modern
democratic institution than a theocracy/hierocracy.
4. Furthermore, in practice, most theocracies/hierocracies
are very much wedded to the respective cumulative
tradition of their religion for a basis on which to make
rulings and ordinances. In Islam for example, the
concept of ijma` (which refers to the consensus of what
Muslims have generally accepted in the past) acts as a
powerful conservative restraint on the introduction of
new ideas. Seldom can a new interpretation make its way
past the deadening effect of this cumulative tradition
into general acceptance by Muslims. Bahá’í institutions
are not at all bound by the decisions of previous Bahá’í
institutions, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes clear in this very
tablet that we are considering.
Thus on theoretical and sociological grounds, it is incorrect
to characterize the functioning of Bahá’í institutions as
theocratic or hierocratic.
E-mail correspondence after posting of the paper
Following the publication of this paper on H-Bahai, Cole
wrote an e-mail replying to the point that I had made. The
following is an e-mail that I wrote in response. Excerpts from
his prior email are interspersed with my responses.

In a message dated 25 Aug 2002, Dr Juan Cole writes:
This issue has nothing to do with Moojan himself, but I would
like to point out that the full text of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s letter on the
House of Justice and jurisprudence, as well as the full text of
the Treatise on Leadership, has never after his death been
published by any Bahá’í authority and both remain largely
unknown, except for snippets, in the Iranian Bahá’í community.
I suspect that these texts by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have been
deliberately suppressed by a faction of Iranian Bahá’í
theocrats, because they are strongly anti-theocratic in tenor
and represent challenges to that faction’s entrenched ideology.
Had it not been for my publication and translation activities at

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
H-Bahai, perhaps even Moojan would not have had access to
the complete text.
Dr Cole is quite right when he says that he drew my attention to this
tablet, but it is not correct to imply that the Bahá’í institutions were
somehow trying to conceal it. Did I not give references to two places
where the original text of all of the substantive part of the tablet is
published — in Rahiq Makhtum and Amr va Khalq? Furthermore an
English translation of a substantial part of this has been published
several times, once in Wellsprings of Guidance, Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1969, pp. 84-6, once in Bahá’í News no. 426 (Sep.
1966), p. 2, and once in the compilation “The Establishment of the
Universal House of Justice” which was printed by the British Bahá’í
Publishing Trust in 1984 (pp. 11-12) and reprinted in Compilation of
Compilations, 2 vols. [Sydney]: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1991,
vol. 1, pp. 323-4. This is hardly a case of “never after his death been
published by any Bahá’í authority.” Nor does not this seem to me to
be the actions of “Iranian Bahá’í theocrats” trying to suppress a text
or of Bahá’í institutions frightened by the challenge it represents.
Could the explanation be that no-one else sees any “anti-theocratic”
tenor in the tablet?
I continue to think that something like “personal status laws”
best translates what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has in mind by ahkam-i
madaniyyih. “Social laws” is incorrect because it is too broad.
For instance, a law about whether young persons must spend
two years in the armed forces of a state would be a “social law”
and yet it is *clearly* not the sort of thing about which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is talking here. When he gives examples of the
ahkam-i madaniyyih, they are things like whether someone can
marry a first cousin or the hudúd/ limitations on behavior, which
in Islam treat illicit sex, slander about the latter, theft, wine
bibbing, armed robbery and apostasy. Marriage, adultery,
slander, drinking and apostasy are not broadly speaking
“social” laws, but rather concern morality and personal status.
Only theft and armed robbery have wider implications, but in
early Islamic society concerned civil obligations among
tribesmen and even in the US these can be the basis of private
civil suits as well as of state criminal prosecution.
That is, the concrete examples ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives in this Tablet
should take precedence over philological concerns with the
ultimate origins of the word madani, and almost all of those
concrete examples pertain to personal status law.

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
What Dr Cole appears to be saying is that in this tablet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
gives two examples of what he is talking about: one of these is
marriage law which can be contained within the term “personal-status
laws,” the other relates to the punishment for crimes which is clearly
not “personal-status laws” but we will lump both in under the rubric of
“personal-status laws” anyway. This seems illogical to me, especially
when the actual meaning (i.e. the dictionary definition) of the words
ahkam-i madaniyyih is “social law” which would fit both of these
examples perfectly well.
In fact if one looks carefully at the tablet one will see that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá claims that the Bahá’í Faith encompasses “the entirety of all
(jámi` jamí`-yi) spiritual and physical (rawhání va jismání) stages (or
aspects or stations, marátib).” And this broad comprehensive sweep
of every spiritual and physical matter is broken down into two areas:
there are those areas that are dealt with in the revealed text and then
everything else which must be referred to the House of Justice. So
Cole is quite right in saying that “social laws” is broad, but then
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is making a broad sweep here.
Incidentally, there is nothing in the text to indicate that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
was intending to limit His definition of ahkám-i madaniyyih by the two
examples He gives. He is giving these examples to show what has
happened in the past because the range of revealed legislation in
previous religions has been too narrow and the followers of these
religions had to interpret for themselves. His intention in giving these
examples is to demonstrate the comprehensiveness of this revelation
because everything that is not covered in the revealed text can be
referred to the Universal House of Justice — even whether “young
persons must spend two years in the armed forces of a state” (if, for
example, this was a matter of an appeal on the grounds of human
rights and the government of the state concerned accepted the
rulings of the House of Justice).
Let’s talk about what the word “madaniyyih.” meant to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
as that seems the pertinent question to be resolved here. The most
obvious place to look first is the Risálih-yi Madaniyyih (The Secret of
Divine Civilization). What is this book about? It is certainly not about
“laws of personal status.” It is precisely as the title is translated —
about the causes and impulses that bring about true civilisation.
Risálih-yi Madaniyyih must incidentally have been either given or
approved by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the title of the book since He refers to
the book by that title in other tablets. From this and the following
quotations it will be clear that “madaniyyih” meant “civilization” for

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In the book itself, the word madaniyyih and its
derivatives occur numerous times. Just a couple will be cited here as
I do not think that anyone can seriously doubt that throughout this
book ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is speaking about “civilization” and not “personal
status laws” (I have altered the translation to make it more literal):
Did not these new systems and procedures and enterprises of
civilization (madaniyyih), contribute to the advancement of those
countries? Were the people of Europe harmed by the adoption of
such measures? Or did they rather by these means reach the highest
degree of material development? (Text, 4th ed., Hofheim: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1984, p. 17; trans. p. 13)
It has now been clearly and irrefutably shown that the importation
from foreign countries of the principles and procedures of civilization
(usúl va qavánín-i madaniyyat), and the acquisition from them of
sciences and techniques — in brief, of whatsoever will contribute to the
general good — is entirely permissible. (Text pp. 38-9, trans. pp. 31-32)
Thus we have evidence that from long before this 1899 tablet, in The
Secret of Divine Civilization (dated 1875), madaniyyih had a meaning
related to “civilization.” We can also point to a lengthy tablet that is
addressed to the Bahá’ís of both the East and the West and must
therefore date from after the 1899 tablet. This a tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá in which he recaps many of the themes of The Secret of Divine
Civilization. I found it first in Ma’adih Asmani vol. 5, p. 109-10 and
began translating it and then realised that it had already been
translated in Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1978, no. 225, p. 283. So below I have based
the translation on that in Selections but in places have replaced this
translation with a more literal one:
Two calls to success and prosperity are being raised from
the heights of the happiness of mankind … The one is the
call of civilization (nidá-yi madaniyyat), of the progress of the
material world (taraqí-yi `álam-i tabí`at). This pertains to the
nether world (jahán-i násút), promotes the principles of
material progress (taraqiyát-i jismáníyyih), and is the trainer
for the physical accomplishments of mankind. It comprises
the laws, regulations, arts and sciences through which the
world of humanity has developed … The propagator and
executive power of this call is just government (hukúmat-i
`ádilih).

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
The other is the soul-stirring call of God, Whose spiritual
teachings are safeguards of the everlasting glory … Its
penetrative power is the Word of God.
However, until the progress of civilisation (taraqiyát-i
madaní), physical accomplishments (kamálát-i jismání) and
human virtues are reinforced by spiritual perfections,
luminous qualities and characteristics of mercy, no fruit or
result shall issue therefrom, nor will the happiness of the
world of humanity, which is the ultimate aim, be attained.
For however much happiness may be obtained on the one
hand
from
the
progress
of
civilization
(taraqiyát-i
madaniyyih) and the adornment of this physical world
(`álam-i jismání) … on the other hand it also brings dangers,
severe calamities and violent afflictions.
Consequently, when you look at the orderly pattern of
kingdoms, cities and villages, with the attractiveness of their
adornments, the freshness of their natural resources, the
refinement of their appliances, the ease of their means of
travel, the extent of knowledge available about the world of
nature, the great inventions, the colossal enterprises, the
noble discoveries and scientific researches, you would
conclude that civilization (madaniyyat) is conducive to the
happiness and the progress of the human world. But if you
should look to the invention of destructive and infernal
machines, to the development of forces of demolition and
the invention of fiery implements, which uproot the tree of
life, it would become evident and manifest to you that
civilization (madaniyyat) is conjoined with barbarism.
Progress and barbarism go hand in hand, unless material
civilization (madaniyyat-i jismániyyih) be confirmed by Divine
Guidance, by the revelations of the All-Merciful and by godly
virtues, and be reinforced by spiritual conduct, by the ideals
of the Kingdom and by the outpourings of the Realm of Might.
Consider now, that the most advanced and civilized
(mutamaddin) countries of the world have been turned into
arsenals of explosives … (there are several more
occurrence of the word madaniyyih but this extract is
already long enough)
As can be seen from this quotation, madaniyyih is clearly linked here
to the progress of the material world and its promotion is considered

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
to be the function of the government. Humanity is warned however
that unless this physical civilisation goes hand-in-hand with spiritual
values, destruction will be the consequence. Madaniyyat is here
linked to “the invention of destructive and infernal machines, to the
development of forces of demolition and the invention of fiery
implements, which uproot the tree of life.” Clearly nothing here would
induce one to think that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is referring to “laws of personal
status.” (There are also significant references here to jismání which is
contrasted to the spiritual — a subject to which we will return anon.)
In a talk given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London in September 1911 (text in
Khatabat, 3 vols. Cairo, 1340 A.H., vol. 1, p. 51 — I was unable to
find a published translation), He speaks about the effects of the
coming of Moses upon the Israelites. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says: “He made
them masters of the sciences and arts and prepared for them a
comprehensive civilisation (madaniyyih-yi tám). He spread among
them the treasure-houses of the world of humanity” — clearly not a
reference to “personal status laws.”
Similarly, when in a tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is referring to the progress
made by the Arabs under the influence of Muhammad, He writes: “All
of them united and in harmony strove for the advancement of
civilization (taraqiyyát-yi madaniyyih). They escaped from the utmost
abasement and achieved eternal glory. Can any social causation
more powerful than this exist in the world?” (Makátíb vol. 3, p. 62)
In fact I can find no occurrence of madaniyyih or madaniyyat where
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is imposing on this word the narrow definition that Cole
would like here.
In this Tablet, in my view ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is speaking entirely
about the former situation, millet law, which is why I give it as
personal status law. He is saying that in the Bahá’í faith millet
law — which applies only to Bahá’ís — derives from the Bahá’í
scriptures but is codified, expanded and administered by the
houses of justice. There was also a move in the Ottoman
empire to put the administration of millet law and affairs in the
hands of elected councils from the new middle class instead of
in those of the clergy, and there were riots about this sort of
issue among members of the Armenian and Eastern Orthodox
millets, of which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was well aware. His and
Bahá’u’lláh’s displacement of clerics or religious jurisprudents
by elected houses of justice was in accord with the most
progressive legal ideas of the late Ottoman empire.

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Again Cole appears to be intent on narrowing the range of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s terminology when in fact, the text of the tablet gives a broad
range to what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is saying.
If one looks at the tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the world millat occurs
most frequently in association with dawlat — i.e. the government and
the people. Here people does not mean the members of one
particular religious community, but rather all of the people who are
the subjects of that government.
Among the main linguistic bases of contemporary Bahá’í
theocratic thought in Persian is a misreading of the word
“siyasat” to mean “politics” in the modern sense, and shunting
aside its earlier or more technical meanings, which are the
ones usually assigned it by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. I
have admitted that it can mean leadership in the Aristotelian
sense, but not in a jurisprudential context. It is true that at some
point Arabs and Iranians did begin using the word siyasat
(al-siyasah) as a neologism for “politics.” But in the 1890s when
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s contemporaries wanted to talk about politics in the
European sense, they said “pulitik,” transliterating from French.
But the fact is that Abdu’l-Bahá and Bahá’u’lláh never use the word
“púlitík.” And when Abdu’l-Bahá wants to speak about what we would
now call politics (e.g. when He is prohibiting interference in political
affairs), He uses the term umúr siyásiyyih.
Actually, Persians and Arabs in the 1890s were already using siyása
in the sense of the government and social administration which is
what the word means when Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá use it. Thus
for example there is the following from Butrus Bustani’s Muhit
al-Muhit which was published in 1870. This is a very literal translation
of the entry for as-siyása al-madaniyya: (I am grateful to Will
McCants for this reference):
“as-siyása al-madaniyya is the management [tadbír] of the way of
living [ma`ásh] with [ma`] the public [al-`umúm] according to the
norms [`ala sunan] of justice [al-`adl] and righteousness [al-istiqáma].
It is one of the divisions of practical wisdom [al-hikma al-`amaliyya] and
is called “al-hikma as-siyásiyya,” “`ilm as-siyása,” “siyásat al-mulk,”
and “al-hikma al-madaniyya.” The Kitáb as-Siyása which Aristotle
wrote for Alexander contains the important aspects of this science.”
The entry draws on a long history of the word in Muslim political
philosophy,
starting
with
al-Farabi’s
as-Siyása
al-Madaniyya,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
translated as “On political government” (see entry on al-Farabi in
Encyclopedia of Islam, 2nd ed., EI2). Also see “Hikma” in EI2 on the
division between theoretical and practical wisdom. But the main point
is that these words siyása and madaniyya clearly had connotations of
more than just leadership — they had connotations of government,
which is exactly how Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá are using them.
Moojan has made a basic error of translation here. Words have
meanings according to their context. In this context, siyasat
simply cannot mean “government.” The entire phrase is this: “In
Islam, as well, administrative punishments (ta`zir) were the
purview of the ruling authority. There were no scriptural texts
specifying the levels of punishment. It depended on the ruler.
Such punishments ranged from verbal censure to death. This
was, for the most part, the pivot of the administration of justice
(siyasat) in the Muslim community.” The question is, what is the
referent of the pronoun “this”? We have here a copula. on one
side is siyasat in the Muslim community. What is it being
equated to? It is obvious. “The dependence of the level of
punishment on the will of the ruler.” That isn’t government in
general. It is the administration of justice in particular.
Actually I think the entry in Bustani’s dictionary is pertinent here. I
gave in my paper examples of the evolution of the term siyasa in
Islamic history and showed that it initially meant mainly looking after
people — or tadbír as Bustani has. This is the meaning that would
make most sense here: “This is what looking after the people of Islam
involved.”
The apparent contradiction between the following
two
passages —
[1] “You asked about the wisdom of putting the house of justice
in charge of important ordinances. First of all, this divine cycle
is solely spiritual, full of godly compassion, and is a matter of
conscience. It has no connection at all to physical, material, or
worldly matters. In the same way, the Christian dispensation
was purely spiritual. “
and
[2] “Nevertheless, this blessed cycle is the greatest of divine
dispensations, and for this reason, it encompasses spiritual
aspects and aspects of the spiritual body, and is perfect in its
power and authority. Therefore, the universal precepts that

Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
form the foundation of the religious law are expressly stated in
the text. “
— remains the same whether the first “physical” was jasadi or
jismani. I continue to think that my solution, which is that
“physical” has two distinct connotations in Shaykhi-Bábí-Bahá’í
thought, helps resolve the apparent problem. By the way, there
are passages in which Bahá’u’lláh refers to Shaykh Ahmad’s
distinctions among the various sorts of body, the physical body
and the spiritual body.
It would certainly strengthen Cole’s argument if he could cite some
instances of this but I have not found any. The lengthy extract from
Má’adih Asmání vol. 5, p. 109-10 I have cited above also points to a
very physical meaning of jismání — which Abdu’l-Bahá there uses as
a contrast to the spiritual.
What Cole appears to be saying then is that Abdu’l-Bahá uses this
word jismání in two diametrically opposite meanings in the same
tablet — without signalling at all that he is doing this.
Now I am sure that when Shaykh Ahmad uses the word jism to mean
something opposite to what is the usual meaning of this word, he
clearly signals that that is what he is doing. And I am sure that
Abdu’l-Bahá, if He had meant jismání in the opposite to its usual
sense would have clearly signalled this within that sentence.
Otherwise, if the same word can be ascribed meanings which are the
opposite of each other and there is no signalling of this, the result is
cognitive anarchy. Now sometimes poor writers are guilty of this but
Abdu’l-Bahá is an exceptionally clear and good writer and would
never inflict such a thing on His readers.
I fear this interpretation turns the text on its head. What
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is saying is that the houses of justice have *only*
spiritual authority (saltanatuha malakutiyyah), *not* temporal or
worldly authority, which is the purview of the civil State.
Otherwise, the modifier “malakutiyyah” or ‘other-worldly’ would
not be necessary, and he would just have spoken of their
‘sovereignty’ pure and simple. He doesn’t say the *origin* of the
authority of Bahá’í institutions is spiritual, he says its *nature* is.
I think not. The reason is the connecting word “fa” which means “and
so.” Therefore what follows is a consequence of what has gone
before. What has gone before are statements that the House of
Justice is under the wing of the protection of God and that its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
decisions are inspired by the Holy Spirit. What follows then must be a
consequence of these statements. This would only be the case if we
interpret what follows thus: And so its sovereignty is heavenly and
divine (because the House of Justice is under the wing of the
protection of God) and its laws are inspired and spiritual (because the
laws are inspired by the Holy Spirit).
He uses the same words (ruh, vujdan) here as are invoked at
the beginning of the Tablet on the Universal House of Justice
and Jurisprudence, and underlines that “the leaders of religions
must not intervene in political affairs” whereas it is praiseworthy
of individual members of religions to become involved in public
service. The common Bahá’í theocratic dodge, of saying that
houses of justice/ spiritual assemblies are not “leaders of
religion” and may therefore intervene in politics and even take
over the civil State, is illogical and is put out of bounds by these
texts of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
This is not a dodge, it is based on what Abdu’l-Bahá Himself says.
He defines in the Risálih Siyásiyyih why He does not think it
advisable for religious leaders to intervene in politics. The following is
from Cole’s own translation:
These souls [religious leaders] are the authorities in estab-
lishing the purport of divine laws, not with regard to their
implementation … what expertise do they have in political
matters, the protection of the subjects, the managing of
serious affairs, the welfare and prosperity of the country, the
implementation of the civil regulations and secular laws of a
realm, or foreign affairs and domestic policy?
In other words, Abdu’l-Bahá wants them to remove themselves from
the political sphere because their training is in other areas. This
clearly does not apply to the Bahá’í institutions whose members have
no training in religious law but who are elected from among the
generality of people and thus resemble much more democratically
elected local and national governments — people whom Abdu’l-Bahá
obviously does think are suited to the task of government.

[end of email]

The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani
Shoghi Effendi has given us a penetrating observation about
the development of Bahá’í history. More than once in his
writings he explained that the pattern of growth in the Faith is
one of crises followed by victory. Such victory leads to greater
crises resulting in a still mightier victory. He referred to this
pattern of growth as part of the process of integration. The
crises always consist of attacks against the Faith both from
within and from without. Indeed, at times the external and the
internal elements of opposition work hand in hand with each
other. He also drew our attention to a simultaneous process of
disintegration in human affairs. While this second process is
destined, alas, to lead humanity to the depths of deterioration
and misery, the integrative process will lead to the triumph and
ascendancy of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh throughout the world.
Christianity and Islam are two major religions whose
followers, based on the statements found in their scriptures,
have always aspired to conquer spiritually the population of the
entire planet. They have failed ever since the inception of their
faiths to achieve their goals. What guarantee do we Bahá’ís have
that the Bahá’í Faith will not follow the same path? Shoghi
Effendi has dealt with this question in his World Order Letters.
That which safeguards the realization of the promises of
Bahá’u’lláh is the Lesser Covenant. This is incorporated in clear
terms in the Law of Succession revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and
confirmed in the Kitáb-i-’Ahd, Bahá’u’lláh’s Will and Testament.
Such Lesser Covenants have existed in all past religions, but
were not laid out in explicit texts. It is in this Lesser Bahá’í
Covenant
that
is
the
guarantee
against
schism
and
sectarianism. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives us this assurance: “So firm
and mighty is this Covenant that from the beginning of time

The Bahá’í Covenant
until the present day no religious Dispensation hath produced
its like.” (GPB 238) He also states: “It is indubitably clear that the
pivot of the Oneness of Mankind is nothing else but the power
of the Covenant…” (GPB 238) “The power of the Covenant is as
the heat of the sun which quickeneth and promoteth the
development of all created things on earth.” (GPB 239) After
referring to the “invincible strength” (GPB 295) and “energizing
power” (GPB 295) of the Covenant, Shoghi Effendi highlights two
specific functions the Covenant is designed to discharge:
• “To direct and canalize” the forces released by two
successive Manifestations in order to “ensure their
harmonious and continuous operation.” (GPB 237)
• To safeguard the “unity and integrity” of the Faith.
(GPB 295)
Two misconceptions about the Covenant exist. These
misconceptions are fomented by non-Bahá’í scholars who wish
to weaken the loyalty of the friends towards the covenant.
These need to be clarified. I will deal briefly with each one in the
light of the texts of our Faith.
• The first is that as long as one believes in the divinity
of Bahá’u’lláh, the Covenant is of secondary
importance, and can be set aside as a non-essential
part of the Bahá’í Revelation.
• The second is that the epoch of the Covenant was the
ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and therefore after the
passing of the Center of the Covenant this chapter in
the history of the Faith is closed.
First Misconception
In God Passes By Shoghi Effendi has explained that “the
excellent and priceless heritage” (GP 314) referred to in the first
sentence of the Kitáb-i-’Ahd is a reference to the Bahá’í
Covenant. The full text of the sentence reads as follows:
“Within the treasury of trust and resignation We have
bequeathed to Our heirs an excellent and priceless heritage.” (TB
219) Shoghi Effendi assures us that this heritage is the
Covenant, and that therefore we are all in one sense
Bahá’u’lláh’s heirs. A moment’s reflection will make it clear

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
that if we accept the source legacy to be a Divine Source, we
cannot but accept the legacy itself. To do otherwise, would be
inconceivable. When one rejects a legacy, does it not indicate a
denial of one’s love towards the Bequeather?
The “Epistle to the Son of the Wolf” was the last
outstanding Tablet revealed by the Pen of Bahá’u’lláh. In this
epistle, Bahá’u’lláh states that in His Crimson Book He has
recorded a “word” which “is capable of fully disclosing that
force which is hid in men, nay, of redoubling its potency.”
(ESW 32) In a letter written on his behalf by his secretary, Shoghi
Effendi has pointed out that what Bahá’u’lláh meant by the
“word” recorded in the Crimson Book was the power of the
Covenant. The Crimson Book is a reference to the book of His
Covenant, the passage above means that the power for unity
which the “Covenant possesses and radiates.” (LG 181) The
passage in the Kitáb-i-’Ahd confirming the potency of this
power is as follows: “A mighty force, a consummate power lieth
concealed in the world of being. Fix your gaze upon it and
upon its unifying influence and not upon the differences which
appear from it.” (TB 221) In these two brief sentences Bahá’u’lláh
is in effect telling us that the power of the covenant is
“concealed.” To me it means that one has to reflect on the
importance of this theme to uncover and grasp its importance.
Bahá’u’lláh is also telling us that the Covenant is like a double-
edged sword: it leads to unity, and it causes differences. We
must focus our minds and hearts on its unifying influence. The
Covenant is our legacy from Bahá’u’lláh Himself, and, as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated, is the Pivot of the Oneness of
Mankind. How is it possible for us to regard it as a matter of
secondary importance?
Second Misconception
The second misconception has to do with the assumption
that the Covenant is outdated and obsolete. We must
remember that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, when commenting on His own
ministry, has written that this period was only the “morning of
the Covenant.” Thus if His Ministry was only the morning of
the Covenant, we still have a whole blissful day ahead of us, till
the end of the Dispensation. Two Tablets to this effect are

The Bahá’í Covenant
included in compilations of the Persian Tablets of the Master
(Muntakhabáti az Makátib-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 5, pp. 165, 213)
Thus we see that the Covenant was not only for the twenty-
nine years of the Master’s Ministry, but was bequeathed by
Bahá’u’lláh to “posterity.” (GPB 239) It is in this light that we
could understand Bahá’u’lláh’s statement when He described
His Dispensation as “a Day which shall not be followed by
night.” (GPB 245)
Who is a Covenant-Breaker?
We should now have a quick look at Covenant-breaking to
see what our texts say on this subject, to understand what are
the reasons and motives that lead people to break the Covenant,
and why we must shun them. The law of Succession is one of
the most important ordinances revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
by Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’u’lláh says that in connection with the
subject of endowments, the Supreme Authority in the Cause is
the Manifestation of God. After Him and in accordance with
His written covenant, specifically appointed “Aghsans” or
Branches of the sacred Lote Tree will be the Centres of the
Cause. After them, the focal point of the Covenant will be the
Universal House of Justice. (KA 42)
In this same Most Holy Book and in the very first sentences,
Bahá’u’lláh clearly stipulates that the acceptance of the
manifestation and adherence to the laws revealed by Him are
twin inseparable duties. One is not accepted without the other.
(KA 1) Thus any person who denies and disregards the links in
the chain of succession is regarded as a Covenant-breaker. The
decision as to who is considered a Covenant-breaker rests
always with the Authority or Central institution of the Cause
which acts as Head of the Faith, at any given time. As stated
earlier the Covenant leads to unity, as well as to differences.
Bahá’u’lláh advised us to ignore the differences and to fix our
gaze on the unifying power of the Covenant. The main body of
the Faith of God, we should be well assured, will remain united,
as has been designed by Almighty God to unify the world. The
Hand of the Cause, A.Q. Faizi, used to say that in past
Dispensations, when broken branches of the Tree of the Cause
were planted, they grew and thrived; but in this Cause, such

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
broken branches, even if planted with care, are destined not to
grow, but to wither away, leaving the Tree of the Cause, a
single, matchless, and impregnable Entity. Thus we must be
certain that Covenant-breaking cannot and will not create a
breach or schism in the Cause.
Why do we shun Covenant-breakers?
As to why we should shun Covenant-breakers ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
gives the example of contagious diseases such as leprosy and
consumption. It is as simple as a scientific fact. Shoghi
Effendi has given this matter further clarification. Shoghi
Effendi described such crises as “blessings in disguise” and says
“when viewed in their proper perspective, each of them is an
agency for the purification and revitalization of the life of the
community”
and
“is
a
compelling
evidence
of
the
indestructibility of its cohesive strength.” (GPB 61)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes Covenant-breakers as “mischief-
makers” who “seek leadership” (SWAB 214) and “promote
discord.” (WT 9) Other motives mentioned by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
include “ambition,” “envy,” and “hate.” (SWAB 163) He advises
us that such people are “sweet in words” and “appear as sheep”
yet inwardly they are “ravening wolves.” (SWAB 315) In His Will
and Testament He warns us “no doubt every vain glorious one
that purposes dissension and discord will not openly declare
his evil purposes.” (WT 12) Shoghi Effendi amplifies this subject
by adding other motives for Covenant-breaking. He describes
such persons as “self-seeking adventurers” driven by such
whims and inclinations as “unbounded presumption,” “abject
perfidy,”
“delusion,”
“malice,”
and,
ironically
enough,
“incredible folly.” (TDH 65-66) “If a man cuts a cancer out of his
body to preserve his health and very life, no one would suggest
that for the sake of unity it would be reintroduced into the
healthy organism. On the contrary, what was once a part of
him has so radically changed as to have become a poison.” (LG
184) This does not mean that Covenant-breakers cannot be
reinstated. Indeed we are told to pray for them, because such
souls are not lost forever. They should be left, however, on their
own. If they repent and the Head of the Faith is convinced that
their repentance is sincere, they are joyously reinstated.

The Bahá’í Covenant
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Shoghi Effendi’s Passing
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas (KA 42) does not seem to envisage that an
appointed Branch, that is, the Guardian of the Cause, would
co-exist with the Universal House of Justice. This would seem
to contradict with the first part of the Will and Testament of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. However, Shoghi Effendi has stated that the
Master’s Will was a “supplement” (WOB 19) to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
and therefore could not “contradict” (WOB 4) the Most Holy
Book. When we study ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament, we
see that it is in three parts. Part one provides for the
Guardian’s participation in the Universal House of Justice as
its member, and indeed, as its “sacred Head.” Part two,
however, envisages a divinely guided House of Justice without
the presence and participation of the Guardian. Part three is
relatively brief and does not deal with this issue.
The question before us is this: How can the Will of the
Master be a “supplement” to, and in fact, “confirm” (WOB 19)
the Most Holy Book, and yet in of its parts appear to
contradict the Kitáb-i-Aqdas? This is both an obscure matter
and a mystery. This may well be why Shoghi Effendi kept telling
the friends in the East and the West, in several letters, that the
Will of the Master contained mysteries which they presently
could not understand. In His Will and Testament, the Master
has added that “obscure” (WT 20) matters in the Cause will arise,
and it devolves upon the Universal House of Justice to
elucidate them. In confirmation of this clause in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Will, Shoghi Effendi wrote in 1924: “We must trust to
time and the guidance of the God’s Universal House of Justice
to obtain a clearer and fuller understanding of its [‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s will’s] provisions and implications.” (BA 62) The manner
in which the events unfolded in 1957 onwards, left certain facts
on the ground, which created a situation that was clearly in full
harmony with the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. As Shoghi Effendi
had not appointed a successor, as Guardian and Authorized
Interpreter, there was automatically no co-existence between
any Appointed Branch and the Universal House of Justice.
After its election in 1963, the Universal House of Justice
gradually lifted the veil on some of the mysteries. In three
letters available to the friends in the compilation entitled

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986
(Letters numbers 5, 23, and 35), the Supreme Institution gave
its elucidations of this “obscure question.” (WT 20)
These three letters clearly demonstrate that the provisions of
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas are supreme, and obviously will remain
inviolable and immutable, that the Universal House of Justice
is
independently
and
divinely
guided
by
the
Twin
Manifestations of this Revelation, and that the beloved
Guardian had even anticipated that the Universal House of
Justice be formed in 1963. Three secondary questions arise
which we need to address. They are:
1. Why did Shoghi Effendi refer to future Guardians?
2. Was he conscious of his imminent death and aware that
he would not live to see the formation of the Universal
House of Justice?
3. Why did the Guardian not write a Will and Testament?
Future Guardians?
Regarding the first question and the reference of Shoghi
Effendi to future Guardians, we must remember that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá had incorporated this possibility in the first part of His
Will. During Shoghi Effendi’s lifetime, there were living
Aghsans who could have been chosen by him, if, as stipulated in
the Will, he had decided that they were qualified for such a high
office. And even then, his appointment had to be ratified by
nine hands elected from the Body of the Hands of the Cause
worldwide. Only the Guardian was authorized to set this
process in motion. We could well conclude that by referring to
future Guardians, he was doing so in the context of the first
part of the Master’s Will.
Shoghi Effendi has given us a key to the resolution of this
quandary. He wrote that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was following the same
pattern adopted by Bahá’u’lláh in His own Kitáb-i-’Ahd. He
indicated that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had used an
“identity of method” in the manner of succession. (WOB 4)
Bahá’u’lláh certainly knew that Mu˙ammad-`Alí would be
disloyal to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Rúhíyyih Khánum, in her Priceless

The Bahá’í Covenant
Pearl (pp. 11-12), tells us of an experience which a German
woman doctor had one day in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Her name was Dr. Fallscheer who was serving as a medical
doctor in the Master’s household and was present when a
young teenager entered the room and approached ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
very reverently. After the Master told him something quietly,
the teenager backed out with the same degree of respect and
reverence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then told Dr. Fallscheer that this young
boy was His Elisha. He then added that Bahá’u’lláh had told
Him that in the future He [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] would have to
appoint one of His own sons or grandsons to succeed Him.
Yet Bahá’u’lláh ostensibly appointed Mu˙ammad-`Alí, in His
Will, as the one to succeed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Is this not a mystery?
Was this designed by Bahá’u’lláh to protect ‘Abdu’l-Bahá?
Could He have done this to test the believers and at the same
time to put Mu˙ammad-`Alí to test?
Shoghi Effendi has clearly stated in his “Dispensation” that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
possessed
“superhuman
knowledge
and
perfection.” (WOB 134) We must be sure, therefore, that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá must have known that the two brothers and five
male cousins of Shoghi Effendi, who were all Aghsans, would
not be faithful to Shoghi Effendi. Could He have included this
option in HIS Will possibly to keep these potential appointees
within the pale of the Faith? Did He have other purposes, as
Bahá’u’lláh might have? As we know, these seven Aghsans
disobeyed Shoghi Effendi through their own pride and folly and
disqualified themselves, by dropping out of the Faith just as
Mu˙ammad-`Alí had done before.
How the texts on succession prove to be a major test?
In
the
Kitáb-i-Iqán
Bahá’u’lláh
states:
“From
time
immemorial, even until eternity, the All-Mighty hath tried, and
will continue to try, His Servants, so that light may be
distinguished from darkness, truth from falsehood, right from
wrong, guidance from error, happiness from misery, and roses
from thorns.” (KI 8) In the same book Bahá’u’lláh says that such
tests appear in “every season” (KI 53) or stage in the evolution of
each Dispensation. It is reasonable therefore to assume that
there are undoubtedly mysteries deposited in God’s Grand
Scheme of World Order. We might also draw a conclusion as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
stated earlier that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had included the possibility of
future Guardians, in order to encourage His grandsons to
remain loyal and not break the Covenant.
Was Shoghi Effendi aware of his imminent passing?
Some light is shed on this issue in Violette’s “Tribute to
Amatu’l-Bahá.” Two incidents are recorded which help us to
understand this matter more clearly. In one case, towards the
end of his life, the Guardian asked Rúhíyyih Khánum what
would become of her, once he had gone. Of course, Rúhíyyih
Khánum was disturbed and shocked by the question. He then
proceeded to answer his own question, by saying that he
assumed that she would travel and encourage the friends. As we
all know, this is precisely what Amatu’l-Bahá did after the
election of the Universal House of Justice.
The second incident is when, during his last few days, in the
hotel in London, he told Amatu’l-Bahá that he did not want to go
back to Haifa and that she should go alone. As Shoghi Effendi had
just had a bad flu, Rúhíyyih Khánum thought that it was
because of his physical condition that he had said what he did.
Furthermore, on June 4, 1957 Shoghi Effendi wrote some five
months before his own passing that the “destiny” and
“security” of the Faith and the “spiritual health” of the Bahá’í
community have now to depend on close collaboration between
the Hands of the Cause and National Spiritual Assemblies.
(MBW 123) In his last message to the Bahá’í world, Shoghi
Effendi called for the appointment of a new Auxiliary Board
whose specific function would be the protection of the Faith.
In the same last general message he conferred upon the Hands
of the Cause the title of “Chief Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Embryonic World Commonwealth.” (MBW 126) It was on that
account that the Hands of the Cause were able to rally the
friends to complete faithfully the objectives of the Ten Year
Crusade. It is highly significant in this connection to recall
that in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh seems to have foreseen the
possibility of the termination of the line of the Appointed
Branches at a time when the Universal House of Justice was not
yet formed. During such an interregnum “the people of Bahá”
according to the Most Holy Book, who “speak not except by his
leave,” (KA 42) would temporarily conduct the affairs of the

The Bahá’í Covenant
Cause, pending the establishment of the Universal House of
Justice. It is truly significant that Bahá’u’lláh so clearly
foreshadowed the future.
Why did Shoghi Effendi not write a Will and Testament?
This very question was put to the House of Justice. Here is
its response: “That Shoghi Effendi did not leave a Will cannot
be adduced as evidence of his failure to obey Bahá’u’lláh.
Rather should we acknowledge that in his very silence there is
wisdom and a sign of his infallible guidance?”
This statement clearly implies that not leaving a will in a
traditional way was a conscious act on the part of Shoghi
Effendi. As indicated above, Shoghi Effendi gave advice to
Rúhíyyih Khánum regarding her activities after his passing. Is
it conceivable that he who was the Guardian and Protector of
the Cause of God would think about the future of his wife, but
not consider the security of the Faith after his own passing?
The Hand of the Cause Tarázu’lláh Samandari, after the
passing of the Guardian, used to say that if Shoghi Effendi was
not sure about the security of the Cause of God after his death,
he would not have passed away at that time. How very
perceptive was this Hand of the Cause? Indeed Shoghi Effendi
had written that His “Dispensation” was to be considered as a
“supplement” (LDG 65) to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament.
He had actually told several Hands of the Cause and pilgrims
that his “Dispensation” should be considered by the friends as
his Will and testament. Furthermore, in his “Dispensation” he
has written that the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was a
“link” (WOB 143-144) joining the Heroic Age to the Formative
Age and similarly the link that will connect the Formative Age
to the Golden Age. In this light we can understand why Shoghi
Effendi described the Will and Testament of the Master as the
“Charter of a future world civilization.” (GPB 328)
Our minds should be assured that the Blessed Beauty is
watching over the fortunes of His precious Faith, and that the
Supreme Body that He has ordained for us is under His loving
care and protection. We are living in a day which, because of
the power of the Covenant, is a Day “which shall not be
followed by night.” (GPB 245)

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective *
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
A Brief Historical Background
There is a general consensus that the foundations of what is
called “modern philosophy” were laid in the middle of the 17th
Century
by
Rene
Descartes,
the
famed
French
philosopher/mathematician. He emphasized the authority of
human rational power as the basic tool used to discover truth.
The much repeated motto of “I think therefore I am” sums up
his stance on the instrumentality of the human consciousness
in any ontological paradigm. Contrary to the Platonic
approach that starts from “reality as an abstract ideal trans-
human, inaccessible phenomenon whose shadows we just
resemble,” Descartes’ approach was from the bottom up. He
starts with the fundamental reality of human intellect as a
priori and logically deduces the possibility of an abstract ideal
reality beyond the human realm.
Following in Descartes’ footsteps, Newton and Leibniz
radically transformed the Platonic paradigm of a world full of
allegories and mystical meanings to a cold, logical, scientific
world, functioning solely on immutable cause-and-effect
relations. The natural laws underlying such a precise system
require the human intellect to discover the mysteries of this
world by painstaking examination of the evidences at hand.
The ensuing unrivaled successes of physical sciences and
technology proved the validity of rationalism as a dominant
school of philosophy for almost two centuries. This revolution

* When dealing with “minimalism” and “maximalism,” this article has
liberally used the main ideas expounded by William Hatcher in
Minimalism: A Bridge between Classical Philosophy and the Bahá’í
Revelation.

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
in the prevailing philosophical mind-set had enormous
consequences throughout the world within one generation.
Rationalism along with its offshoots such as Logical
Positivism,
scientific
positivism,
materialism,
and
reductionism gained a total ascendancy in many areas of
human intellectual, political, social, and academic endeavor.
There was a shift in the previously held romantic view of the
world. The entire cosmos was not circumambulating our
planet in reverential adoration anymore; the earth was reduced
to a speck of dust in the much larger, utterly predictable
scheme of things. The nightingale did not warble as a token of
its love for the beauty of the rose, but only to obey a preset
reproductive urge. The universe lost its poetry and a
mechanistic coldness settled in.
The new scientific picture of the world upheld the following,
seemingly indisputable axioms:
1. This world is based on an elegant intelligible design that
behaves according to unchangeable laws.
2. These laws can be discovered by human mind/rational
ability.
3. The chain of cause and effect is at the heart of the reality
of all phenomena
4. Scientific methodology and modern logic are the only
valid tools of discovery.
5. Reducing complex phenomena to its simpler parts and
analyzing the simpler parts will yield the knowledge of the
more complex supersets (reductionism).
6. Objectification is the only way to obtain any valid
knowledge of reality (positive objectivism).
7. The ultimate cause of anything material is necessarily
material (materialism).
8. Whatever is not rational (explained in the language of
mathematics, logic, objectivism) is necessarily irrational
(emotions,
human
creativity,
mysticism,
religion,
spirituality) and tacitly of lesser value.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
9. The proper language to describe reality is linear very
exact in nature, avoiding double or multi meanings, and
totally communicable.
10. Verification through a constant process of fine-tuning
the theory against the evidences obtained from empirical
analysis is the only way to gain a more exact knowledge
of reality.
For the first time in the history of revealed religions, the
Bahá’í sacred writings explicitly discussed the singular role of
human rationality in discovering the mysteries of the world. In
the words of Abdu’l-Bahá, “God’s greatest gift to man is that
of intellect, or understanding. The understanding is the power
by which man acquires his knowledge of the several kingdoms of
creation, and of various stages of existence, as well as much
which is invisible.”1 Or, again in another statement: “God has
endowed man with intelligence and reason whereby he is
required
to
determine
the
verity
of
questions
and
propositions.”2 In addition to such explicit praise for
humanity’s rational faculties, both Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-
Bahá also pointed out the inadequacy of human rational ability
as the only reliable means through which to discover all the
possible facets of the relationships within and amongst
phenomena. In the late 19th century they called for a
reconsideration of some of the basic axioms tacit in
rationalistic/mechanistic systems. As an alternative, they
offered other possible epistemological tools for revealing the
mysteries of this world.
For example, in Some Answered Questions Abdu’l-Bahá
expounds on at least four different modes of knowledge:
knowledge through sense perception3, reason and logic,
tradition or scriptural authority, and the medium of
inspiration. Each of these modes may be applied to a greater or
lesser degree. It is only when they act in a complementary
fashion and act in harmony that one has hopes to approach a
more reliable version of knowledge. However, as was expected,
many multitudes remained oblivious to such an invitation. It
took science itself to point out its own inadequacies.
In the beginning of the 20th century the first jolt to the
previously unchallenged authority of scientific method came

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
from Heisenberg, the most prominent German physicist of the
time. His “indeterminacy” or “uncertainty” principle wreaked
havoc not only in scientific circles but also in wider
philosophical domains. Heisenberg’s principle states that, “no
complete and exact description of physical reality is logically
possible within the framework of the Hilbert Space of quantum
mechanics.”4 In particular, this principle showed that it is
impossible to simultaneously determine the position and the
momentum of an electron.
The next and even stronger blow to conventional scientific
processes was landed by the famed logician of the early 20th
century, Kurt Gödel. In his famous Incompleteness Theorem,
he proved, without a doubt, “that any system by necessity will
contain true propositions that cannot be proven within the
system.”5 In another words, there cannot exist any complete
(meaning dealing with the totality of a system) and at the same
time exact (being able to prove all its propositions) description
of reality.
This jolt to the rationalistic view of the world caused a
whole host of new philosophical systems to gain strength
forming a united front to oppose what they called the “tyranny
of science.” Armed with the weapon provided for them by
science itself, schools such as relativism, total relativism,
subjectivism, solipsism, existentialism, post modernism,
deconstructionism, and the like announced the end of the
supremacy of human rational faculties as the dominant force
for gaining knowledge. Although covering a vast arena of
human enterprises, proponents of such schools generally agree
with the following underlying premises:6
1. There is a general sense of mistrust towards the use of
rational/logical/scientific methods to gain knowledge.
Science is just another (white man’s) cultural bias on par
with magic, shamanism, or voodooism.
2. The individual’s perception of reality is the only and the
ultimate source of authority (solipsism).
3. All cultures and cultural products should enjoy the status
of equal validity, with no inherent merit accorded to any
of them.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
4. All moral values and codes of conduct are basically
products of human culture and, therefore, equally
justifiable.
5. All epistemological approaches, including intuition,
revelation, mysticism, and the like are equally valid in
forming a perception of reality.
6. Objectivity is a myth and only trivial matters can be
objectified. Whatever is significant remains forever
subjective.
7. There is no absolute authority save the authority of the
self.
8. There is nothing meritorious about using logical and or
mathematical languages. Using a poetic/non-linear
language with multiple meanings is encouraged.
9. Inter-subjective
communication
is
not
probable.
Therefore, one’s perception of reality remains forever
inaccessible to others and inherently resistant to reliable
communication.
Throughout the past several decades, constant clashes
between the two camps were not only limited to the academic
and philosophical circles, but the impacts were reverberating in
all of human endeavor from art and music to theatre and
cinema;
from
child-rearing
practices
to
interpersonal
relationships; from policy making at the local level to the
practices of international relations. Most of the absolute
values
had
lost
their
meaning
and
the
individual’s
interpretations turned into the ultimate authority. Nothing
was a question of merit any longer, but was reduced to the
question of mere difference.
What is Minimalism?
In such chaotic circumstances, foreseen by Bahá’u’lláh and
Abdu’l-Bahá a century earlier, a newly emerging school of
philosophy is gaining ground. Minimalism is a new alternative
based on the supremacy of the human rational mind but at the
same time relying on pragmatic approaches. While it tries to

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
avoid the dogmatism of positivism/objectivism, it is mindful
of the pitfalls of subjectivism and the authority of the self. Dr.
William Hatcher terms his method “minimalism” because it
“results from consistently making the most plausible and
rational choice in the light of current knowledge”7 but goes no
farther than is necessary.
Minimalism takes the stance that the fundamental goal of
any philosophical system must be truth-seeking and not
persuasion and/or continual debates amongst competing
schools of thought. It is unproductive and unnecessary to put
much emphasis on constant arguments between and amongst
extreme points of view. Instead, the main objective must be to
find the tools and tirelessly refine them to approach the truth.
In many respects, minimalism offers an epistemological system
congruent with the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith. The following
will be an attempt to draw a parallel view comparing the basic
epistemological principles of minimalism and the Bahá’í Faith.
Metaphysics
In its metaphysical stance, facing the question of “existence”
versus “non-existence,” minimalism is based on the axiom that
“something does exist.” Therefore, existence itself is not an
illusion but a reality independent of the observer. Therefore,
the “out-there-ness” of reality is not under dispute. However,
the observer’s perception of reality may very well be illusory.
Also, it takes “being as basic and sees process as a succession
of states, a state being defined as a (time-bound) existent at a
given instant of time.”8
The stance of the Bahá’í Faith also testifies to the reality of
existence.
Epistemology
The main axiom explicitly clarified in minimalism is the law
of “cause-and-effect” as a universal umbrella encompassing the
emergence of all phenomena. Similarly, in the words of
Bahá’u’lláh: “All that is created, however, is preceded by a
cause.”9 What distinguishes it from materialism, however, is
that minimalism does not adhere to the axiom that the root
cause of all material phenomena is necessarily material. It leaves

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
the possibility for non-material causes open and subject to
investigation. In general agreement with this position Abdu’l-
Bahá confirms: “Thus such a chain of causation must of
necessity lead eventually to him who is the ever-living, the All-
powerful, who is self-dependent and the Ultimate Cause.”10
Methodologically, minimalism relies heavily both on the
traditional syllogistic system of Aristotle and, even more so,
on the modern relational logic developed over the past two
centuries. Without going much into the details of the
relational logic, it may suffice it to say that this new system is
closely connected to the mathematical set theory (dealing with
the concepts of supersets, sets, subsets, and their boundaries).
Relational logic is key to developing new techniques to expand
our ability to derive new logical conclusions (both inductive
and deductive) from a given statement. In this regard,
minimalism is closely associated with the bases underlying new
mathematics/logic and artificial intelligence experiments.
In fact Abdu’l-Bahá constructed numerous arguments using
relational logic as a tool to prove His point. A prominent
example of such an argument can be found in His Tablet to Dr.
Forel. In this Tablet Abdu’l-Bahá shows that a subset (human
being) cannot possibly possess a quality whose superset (the
nature) is bereft of.
Should any one suppose that man is but a part of the
world of nature, and he being endowed with these
perfections, these being but manifestations of the
world of nature, and thus nature is the originator of
these perfections and is not deprived therefrom, to him
we make reply and say: the part dependeth upon the
whole; the part cannot possess perfections whereof the
whole is deprived.11
He uses a similar set of arguments to also prove the reality of
divinity, spiritual realms, and other unobservable phenomena.
Scope
Minimalism considers Gödel’s Incompleteness Theorem as
its guiding light and accepts the fact that no system is possibly
able to cover the whole of reality and at the same time be exact

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
enough to verify all of its true propositions. In fact, exactness
and completeness will occur at the expense of one another. A
desire to increase exactness will necessarily yield a decrease in
the scope of our knowledge of reality. Therefore, it
acknowledges the fact that, at any given time, the system is
only involved with a part, and not the entirety of reality.
The limit of the comprehensive ability of the human mind is
at the core of the Bahá’í epistemology as well. Bahá’u’lláh, time
and again, warns humanity against “vain imaginings,” a
constant battle between reality and perception. This inherent
limitation in the scope of human knowledge is also confirmed
by Abdu’l-Bahá when He states “For whatsoever can be
conceived by man is reality that hath limitations and is not
unlimited; it is circumscribed, not all-embracing. It can be
comprehended by man, and is controlled.”12
Objectification of Reality
To avoid the reductionist nature of absolute objectivism,
“minimalism accepts the objective existence of only those non-
observable phenomena that are strictly necessary” in order to
give a satisfactory explanation for observable phenomena. One
should notice that “strict necessity” is of utmost importance
in such an explanation. It is only as a last resort if and only if
the assumptions of such non-observables conform in
accordance with, and not contrary to, the other logical
components of the argument at hand, that their objective
existence will be assumed. Therefore, whatever can be
objectified must be objectified. This objectification of a large
segment of the human quest for knowledge is both desirable and
helpful. At the same time, minimalism is mindful of the
restrictions of total objectivism and acknowledges the fact
that the totality of human knowledge cannot be objectified.
Objectification in minimalism is a very strong tool for truth-
seeking but never the only one, or worse, an end in itself.
Similarly in the world of being there exist forces unseen
of the eye, such as the force of ether previously
mentioned, that cannot be sensed, that cannot be seen.
However, from the effects it produceth, that is from
heat, electricity appear and are made evident. In like

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
manner is the power of growth, of feeling, of
understanding, of thought, of memory, of imagination
and of discernment; all these inner faculties are unseen
of the eye and cannot be sensed, yet all are evident by
the effects they produce.13
Object/Subject relationship
Minimalism pays special attention to the continual battle
between the object-based epistemology of positivism (holding
the stance that reliable knowledge can only be obtained if the
objectivity/neutrality of the observer/subject is guaranteed)
on one hand, and the subject-based paradigm of the
subjectivist school (which cries out that neutrality/objectivism
is only a myth and there is no reality but what the
subject/observer perceives) on the other hand. Abdu’l-Bahá is
also well aware of the philosophical dichotomy between the
object and subject. He clarifies His stance when He says: “… It
is certain that all human conceptions are contingent, not
absolute; that they have a mental existence, not a material
one.”14 Minimalism explicitly acknowledges the fact that total
neutrality of the observer is not an achievable goal. It is the
“viewpoint explicitness” and not the “viewpoint neutrality”
that leads to a more reliable path to approaching reality.
Therefore, what it stresses is a system in which there is a
constant and a sincere effort to explicitly spell out all the
assumptions, axioms, and viewpoints in advance, for the sake
of both the reader and potential critics.
The knowledge obtained in this way will be examined and re-
examined against newly confronted evidences. When the
current evidences at hand imply a host of possible
theories/explanations, only the most plausible ones will be
selected. As we can see, the truth-seeking methodology of
minimalism is a dynamic, pragmatic and ever fine-tuning
dialogue between the observer and reality. It allows itself to
constantly revise and modify what it has achieved. It is through
conscious and careful effort that there will emerge an ever
increasing hope of closing the gap between perception and
reality. So, whoever is on the path of a truth-seeking endeavor
must try to remain open-minded in an open-ended process.
Although an absolute level of viewpoint explicitness is not

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
possible, minimalism hopes to achieve gradual and exceedingly
refined versions of human knowledge. Therefore, although the
end result is not known (the truth is not a priori) such
refinement is similar to the concept of finding the limit of
series or sequences in mathematics. The limit (if it exists) can
be obtained by rigorously applying refining techniques.
Going one step further however, minimalism considers a
rather larger domain of applicability for rigorous and formal
methods and language not only in their traditional roles in
mathematical/computers/scientific investigations but also in
seldom
explored
spheres
of
philosophy,
religion,
and
humanities. By appropriately using the tools of modern logic
and considering the most probable alternative, it introduces an
approach within which one can search for the validity of both
material and trans-material knowledge. In like manner, on
numerous occasions in the Bahá’í writings there is a constant
invitation to apply one’s rational ability to explore various
meanings of sacred text. In fact a good portion of treatise,
tablets, and talks (including Some Answered Questions) given
by Abdu’l-Bahá are excellent examples of implementing formal
logic to prove a point.
Rationalism vs. other modes of knowledge
Minimalism greatly values the rational faculty as the key to
unraveling encountered mysteries, both material and trans-
material. In fact, its reliance on the usage of formal logic,
relational logic, and the process of verification as a means to
refine human knowledge, and consequently modifying our
views based on examining the newly emerged evidences, all
testify to how crucial a role human’s rational mind plays in
achieving a better understanding of what reality is. However, it
tries to avoid the dichotomy of the hard-line rationalistic view
between rationality and irrationality.
It opens up a window to a third alternative, namely, “trans-
rationality.” According to minimalism, some levels of
knowledge that are gained through other modes of exploration
may not necessarily be irrational but trans-rational. Of course,
one condition remains intact, that is, the knowledge gathered
in such a way ought not to contradict reason, but may

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
complement it. In this fashion, minimalism leaves room for
modes
such
as
intuition,
mystical
experience,
divine
inspiration, prayers and meditations complementing the
rational faculty where rigorous, formal, investigative methods
may remain inadequate. Abdu’l-Bahá in Some Answered
Questions, offers a thorough discussion of the validity of all
these different modes of knowledge including sense perception,
reason and logic, tradition or scriptural authority, and the
medium of inspiration. He also emphasizes that all these modes
must be in harmony and act in a complementary fashion.
Minimalism vs. Maximalism
Maximalism refers to an ensemble of schools of thought on
the opposite side of the spectrum from minimalism. In
comparing the two systems, some of the major distinctive
tenets of both will emerge even more pronouncedly:15
1. Contrary to minimalism, maximalism starts with a text
in which the Truth itself is a priori and the meaning of
the text a posteriori (i.e., the meaning of the statements
may not be immediately accessible or even unique).
2. The language of maximalism is non-linear, poetic, multi-
layered, allegorical, and ultimately contains multi-
meanings, welcoming a variety of interpretations.
3. Maximalism gives free rein to refer to trans-material,
non-observable, and imaginary phenomena.
4. The scope of maximalism is the totality of reality with
little or no attention paid to the issue of exactness. It
offers an all-encompassing paradigm (a mega-narrative)
in which “completeness” is favored at the expense of
exactness.
5. To unravel the meanings veiled in the poetry of language,
the tools of scientific verification will seldom be
sufficient, or necessary. Here all modes of knowledge
may have to band together in order to explore fresh
meaning for each statement.

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
6. Divine revelations are perfect examples of maximalism in
which there is an abundant use of metaphor, non-linear
language and unobservable phenomena.
In summary, what makes minimalism singularly useful is its
fresh look at new applications of the language of modern logic
and mathematics as a key to open so far unproven or
unexplored realities. For example, Dr. Hatcher utilizes the very
same tool to demonstrate how the existence of God/Divinity
may be proved in a totally logical way.16 It is true that to be
able to follow his lines of argument there is a need for a prior
knowledge of basic levels of modern logic, but by exerting some
mental effort it is quite possible to trace the gist of his
argument. This fine example makes us understand how modern
logic combined with the “most plausible scenario” may lead one
to more solid ground for exploration of non-observable
realities that had previously kept their distance from such
verifications. In this regard, in addition to stressing the value
of logic/rationality, minimalism welcomes the contribution of
other modes of knowledge in exploring different aspects of
reality (provided they do not contradict logic).
When comparing the two, there is a natural affinity between
the epistemological stance of the Bahá’í Faith and minimalism.
Even so, one has to bear in mind that Bahá’u’lláh reveals a
“complete” paradigm, a mega-narrative, while minimalism, by
nature, tries to take the side of “exactness,” accepting the
limitations it imposes on the system. The Faith, however, not
only does not preclude, but actively encourages a rational
investigation of the tenets of one’s belief system. There are
abundant references to “deliberation,” “reflection,” “thought,”
“contemplation,” “reasoning,” and the like, when one wrestles
with layers of meanings in a sacred passage. The “pearls of
wisdom” preserved in the “depth of the Ocean of His
Revelation” summon the seekers to “delve deep” to reach the
“hidden treasures” therein. Therefore, on the one hand, the
truth of a divine revelation is a priori, given in a top-down
fashion in language rich in allegory, poetry, layers, metaphors
and maximalist in nature. The “Creative Word” is an ever-
generating source of hidden meanings that invite the soul and
the mind to a feast of discovery by utilizing different

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
(including trans-rational) modes of knowledge, that are not
contradictory to logical/rational conclusions.
Dr. Hatcher gives a parallel view of the essential elements
underlying the two systems:
The study of science consists in confronting or
experience of the phenomena of reality, formulating
certain propositions whose meaning is a priori clear
and applying appropriate verification procedures to
determine the truth or falsity of these propositions.
We call this whole process verification. Studying the
revelation consists in confronting various portions of
the text of revelation, focusing on certain statements
whose truth is known a priori and then striving to
determine various linear meanings of these statements.
We will give the name explication to this process. Thus,
for science, clarity of meaning is given a priori but
truth is determined a posteriori. For revealed religion,
truth is given a priori, but meaning is determined a
posteriori.17
What is at the heart of his argument is that the two
paradigms need not stay in adversarial positions, but can
cooperate in a wholly complementary fashion. The process of
“verification” can be applied in exploring, clarifying, refining,
and improving our understanding of the divine revelation.
Also, the creative word of the divine revelation may set the tone
for the formulation of original perspectives, hypotheses, and
theories. Such a continuous dialogue between the two
complementary
systems
will
assure
an
ever-improving
experience when confronting the puzzling mysteries of both the
observable and the non-observable.

NOTES
1 Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks .U.K. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1972, 41
2 Bahá’í World Faith. US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976, 240
3 Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions. US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990,
297-299
4 Hatcher, William S. Minimalism. Juxta Publishing Ltd. Hong Kong, 2002,

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
5 Ibid., 11
6 Ibid., 15
7 Ibid., 12
8 Ibid., 124
9 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1990, 162
10 Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel. George Ronald Publishers, 1978, 19
11 Ibid., 12
12 Ibid., 15
13 Ibid., 20
14 Ibid., 15
15 Hatcher, William S. Minimalism. Juxta Publishing Ltd. Hong Kong, 2002
16 Ibid., 99-107
17 Ibid., 115

Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam)
Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh
A provisional translation and a Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
Revealed
“soon
after
…
(Bahá’u’lláh’s)
return
from
Sulaymániyyih” (Balyuzi 117),1 this Tablet to Maryam, a few of
whose passages are known to Western readers through their
translation by Shoghi Effendi, the Hand of the Cause of God
Hasan M. Balyuzi (1908-1980), and the British orientalist
Edward G. Browne (1862-1926), is interesting not only as a
source of historical information and of doctrinal and ethical
hints, but also as an example of Bahá’u’lláh’s refined literary
style.
Historical information
The “drop of the story” (π 32) which Bahá’u’lláh narrated in
this Epistle refers to the wrongs He suffered immediately after
the attempt on the life of the Shah, perpetrated on 15 August
1852, by two obscure Bábí youth, Íádiq-i-Tabrízí and
Fat˙u’lláh-i-Qumí, driven mad by the recent martyrdom of
their beloved Master, The Báb (cf. GPB 62). Bahá’u’lláh indirectly
assures His addressee that He had nothing to do with that
attempt, saying that He was first imprisoned and then
banished from His country only for His “love for the Beloved”
and His “willing submission to the Goal of all desire” (π 2), His
steadfastness “in the time of heavenly trials” (π 3), His
generosity “in the revelations of grace” and His determination
“in restraining the enemies of the King of Oneness” (π 4). And
thus His expulsion was an act of sheer tyranny on the part of
Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh (1835-1896), whom Bahá’u’lláh stigmatizes

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
here as the “Tyrant of Persia (Ωálim-i-’ajam)” (π 9).2 Maryam
(1826-1868), the recipient of the Tablet, certainly remembered
in what condition He was during December 1852 when He was
released from His four month imprisonment in the Síyáh-Chál of
Teheran, because she had assisted His consort, Ásíyih Kháum
(1820c.-1886) in nursing Him for a whole month in the house of
her husband, a gesture that won her His enduring gratitude.
Maryam was the daughter of Mírzá Karím Namadsáb and
Malik Nisá’ Khánum, a sister of Mírzá ‘Abbas, better known as
Mírzá Buzurg (d. 1839), Bahá’u’lláh’s father. Thus she was a
cousin of Bahá’u’lláh (cf. “Genealogy” and Malik Khusraví 138-9). She
was also His sister-in-law, both because she had married Mírzá
Ri∂á-Qulí, a half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh, and because her
younger sister Fá†imih Khánum (1828-1904) had become
Bahá’u’lláh’s second wife in 1849 (cf. Mazandarání 5:511), after she
had become the widow of the famous Shaykh Mu˙ammad-Taqí
‘Allámih Núrí (1787-1843-4; cf. Nabíl 111). Fá†imih Khánum is
better known as Mahd-i-’Ulyá, the Most Exalted Cradle, and
the mother of the treacherous Mu˙ammad-`Alí (1852 c.-1937).
Mírzá Ri∂á-Qulí was the son of the third wife of Mírzá
Buzurg, Kulthúm Khánum-i-Núrí, none of whose four surviving
children was a supporter of Bahá’u’lláh. He was a physician,
and therefore he was known as “Óakím.” When Bahá’u’lláh was
released from the Síyáh-Chál, Mírzá Ri∂á-Qulí hosted Him and
His family in his house “close to the entrance of Masjid-i-Sháh”
(ESW 170). He had moved into that house together with his
mother, who had inherited it from her father, when, in the last
years of his life Mírzá Buzurg was obliged to sell his complex of
houses where he lived with his whole family in Tehran to pay the
expenses for the divorce from his latest wife, princess Sháh
Begum, Îíyá’u’s-Sal†anih (cf. Balyuzi 16-7). At the same time
Bahá’u’lláh moved with a number of the family members to a
rented house “near the gate of Shimírán” (ESW 170). In later years
Mírzá Ri∂á-Qulí kept his distance from Bahá’u’lláh, tried to
conceal the fact of their relationship and opposed ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s marriage to his niece Shahr-Banú, 3 “because he was
afraid that Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh and his ministers would frown on
this marriage and take him to task” (Balyuzi 343-4). In the 1870s,
although he was held in high esteem in Tehran (cf. Taherzadeh 3:218)
and had never supported the new Faith, he “was arrested,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
conducted to the capital and thrown into the Síyáh-Chál, where
he remained for a month” (GPB 198). Bahá’u’lláh maintained
communication with Mírzá Ri∂á-Qulí, exhorted him to
recognize the new Revelation and wrote a beautiful message
seemingly referring to him in His “Law˙-i-Pisar-’Amm (Tablet
to the Cousin),” written around 1870 and addressed to His
faithful cousin Mírzá Óasan-i-Mázindarání.
Maryam, who had been converted by Bahá’u’lláh Himself in
the early days of the Bábí Dispensation, always remained a
staunch believer. She longed to meet her illustrious Cousin, but
her family prevented her from realizing her longing. In her
poems she sings of her love for the Blessed Beauty:
Were I to drink one or two cups of wine from Bahá’s
jar, I would continue roaring and blazing even after
my extinction and death.4 (Dhuká’í Bay∂á’í 3:334-40)
She tells of the joy of His presence:
Should I put on the robe of nearness from the hands of
the Friend, I would illumine the heaven and the earth
even as the sun. (Dhuká’í Bay∂á’í 3:334-40)
Obliged as she was to stay far from Him, she used her poetry
to give “vent to the gnawing grief she bore for her separation
from Him” (Ishráq-Khávarí, Writings 628). In this vein she wrote:
The bird of my love was entrapped in the snare of
separation, and all the birds of the air and beasts of the
field bewail my story. (Dhuká’í Bay∂á’í 3:334-40)
A whole poem is devoted to describe her sadness:
O joy for my rare, bewildered and bleeding heart!
Euphrates and Tigris stream forth from its sea.
Time was when Majnún’s tale sounded peculiar to me;
now I have two hundred Laylís and Majnúns in my heart.
The Ravisher of my heart withdrew His tent from the
town to the desert; now, even as Qays,5 I turn my face
to the desert.
The doleful Zulaykhá6 might have a moon in captivity;
what I have in bondage is two hundred shining suns.

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
Should I tell what the Wheel of Destiny has allotted to
my heart, I would burn up the nine heavens to naught.
For long years I prayerfully sat in the Ka’bih of the
Beloved; now a journey of more than a hundred years
divides me from Him.
O Thou Who dwellest beyond the oceans, see how the
vessel of my heart is filled with Thee.
I am so grieved by the pain of remoteness and
separation that I make saddened the hearts of angels
and houris.
The page is finished and the secret of my heart remains
untold; alas, what a blazing fire I hold burning in my
hearth! (Dhuká’í Bay∂á’í 3:334-40)
Maryam passed away in Teheran in 1868, at 42 years of age,
and is buried in the precincts of the Shrine of Sháh ‘Abdu’l-
’AΩím, in the outskirts of the capital (cf. Ishráq-Khávarí, Writings
628), where Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh is buried. Bahá’u’lláh revealed
several Tablets addressed to her. In a very poetical letter, that
begins with “O Maryam, The Spirit of life ascended to the
domain of placelessness (maryama, isiy-i-ján bi la makan),”7 He
consoles her grief at His remoteness: “Shed thee not tears from
thine eyes and be not of the anxious ones. Put on the robe of
submission and quaff from the wine of acquiescence; and sell
the entire world for a mere derham. Give thy heart to God’s
irrevocable decree and submit to that which He has ordained
for thee” (courtesy of Ms. Gloria Shahzadeh). The most celebrated of
these Tablets is “Óurúfát-i-’Állín (The Exalted Letters),”8 a
Tablet dedicated to the memory of Maryam’s only brother,
Mírzá Mu˙ammad-i-Vazír, “reputed to be the very first among
the family of Bahá’u’lláh to have been converted by Him to the
Bábí Faith in the province of Núr in 1844” (Taherzadeh 1:122).
Bahá’u’lláh also revealed for her a “Zíyárát-Námiy-i-Maryam
(Tablet of Visitation for Maryam),” in which He honored her
with the title “Crimson Leaf (al-Waraqatu’l-˙amrá’)” (cf. Ishráq-
Khávarí, Ganj 205; Taherzadeh 1:13).
As to the title “leaf,” in the days of the Bábí Dispensation the
sister of Mullá Óusayn-i-Bushrú’í (1813-1849), the first disciple
of the Báb, was known as the “Leaf of Paradise (varaqatu’l-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
firdaws)” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials 177, Tadhkirat 273; cf. Nabíl 383n1).
Bahá’u’lláh bestowed the title “leaf (varaqih)” to the women of
His family. Specifically the title Varaqiy-i-’Ulyá was bestowed
on both His consort, Ásíyyih Khánum, and His daughter
Bahíyyih Khánum (1846-1932). Shoghi Effendi translated
Varaqiy-i-’Ulyá as the “Most Exalted Leaf” (GPB 108) in the case
of Navváb and as the “Greatest Holy Leaf” in the case of
Bahíyyih Khánum (BA 25). “She is a leaf that hath sprung from
this preexistent Root,” Bahá’u’lláh Himself wrote in a Tablet
addressed to His daughter
(qtd.
in
Bahíyyih
Khánum
2).
Occasionally He also bestowed this title upon other persons
not related to Him. We have a few examples of Tablets
addressed to women referred to as “O My leaf” by Bahá’u’lláh.
Four such examples are in TB 251, 254 and 256 and in GWB #
LXVIII (132). He Himself explains why He has bestowed this
title on one of those pious women: “We have designated thee ‘a
leaf,’” He writes, “that thou mayest, like unto leaves, be stirred
by the gentle wind of the Will of God — exalted be His glory —
even as the leaves of the trees are stirred by onrushing winds.
Yield thou thanks unto thy Lord by virtue of this brilliant
utterance” (TB 254, Majmú’ih’i 161). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred to the
women of His household as “the holy leaves (awráq al-
muqaddasa)” (WT 18, Alvá˙ 19; TB 3:724), “the brilliant Leaves” (TB
2:291, 425, 3:652) and “the Illumined Leaves, the maid-servants of
God in this most great prison” (TB 2:300). He clarified that
“submissiveness is the good quality of the maid-servants of
God, and humility is the character of the God-fearing leaves
who have sprung forth from the Tree of Mercifulness” and
invites a correspondent to strive “to be characterized with
these, that … [she might] be an example for the maid-servants of
the Merciful and a leader of the leaves who are moved by the
winds of the love of God” (TB 1:77).
After having addressed one of His correspondents as “O leaf
upon the Tree of Life (varaqiy-i-sha˙riy-i-˙áyat),” Abdu’l-Bahá
explained that “the Tree of Life … is Bahá’u’lláh, and the
daughters of the Kingdom are the leaves upon that blessed Tree”
(SWAB 57, Muntakhabátí 54). He wrote to other correspondents: “I
beg of Him to bestow upon thee a spiritual soul, and the life of
the Kingdom, and to make thee a leaf verdant and flourishing
on
the
Tree
of
Life
(varaqat-i-rayyánat-i-na∂rat-i-’alá
shajarati’l-˙ayát), that thou mayest serve the handmaids of the

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
Merciful with spirituality and good cheer” (SWAB
164,
Muntakhabátí 161; cf. TB 1:88); and also: “Be rejoiced for God hath
made thee a believing maid-servant in His Holy Threshold and a
leaf of the leaves of the Tree of Life” (TB 1:140). He described
Fá†imih Begum, the widow of Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Óasan (d.
1879), the King of Martyrs, as “a holy leaf of the Tree of God
(varaqiy-i-muqaddasiy-i-iláhí)” (MF 173, Tadhkirat 234) and her
mother, Khurshíd Begum, known as Shams-i-Îu˙á, the
Morning Sun, as “a leaf of Thy green Tree of Heaven (varaqati
shajarati ra˙máníyatika al-kha∂rá’)” (MF 186, Tadhkirat 285). He
called several Western ladies “enlightened leaf” (TB 1:158),
“brilliant leaf” (TB 3:708), “confident leaf” (TB 3:510), “assured
leaf” (TB 1:173, 214), “blessed leaf” (TB 3:625), “spiritual leaf” (TB
1:164, 172), “spiritual leaf who art verdant and well-watered by
the outpouring from the Kingdom of God” (TB 3:671), “green leaf
of the Tree of Life”;9 “wonderful leaf of the Tree of the Love of
God” (TB 1:185), “leaf who art moved by the Breeze of God” (TB
3:685); “pure leaf of the Blessed Tree,”10 “leaf of the Tree of
Life.”11 Sometimes He addressed collectively several women as
“leaves”: “O ye leaves of the Paradise of El-Abhá” (TB 1:27); “O ye
verdant and flourishing leaves of the Blessed Tree” (TB 1:28, 29);
“O ye maid-servants of the Merciful! Leaves of the Tree of Life
[to the ladies of the Kenosha assembly]” (TB 1:143); “O ye friends
and daughters of the Kingdom and leaves of the Blessed Tree”
(TB 2:353); “O ye maid-servants of God and leaves of the Tree of
Eternal Life [to the California maid-servants]” (TB 3:661); and
He beseeched “God to strengthen the assured leaves (or women)
… under all grades, aspects and circumstances” (TB 1:228-9). And
thus it seems He used this title for referring both to especially
dedicated believers and to any lady who believed in Bahá’u’lláh.
In a Tablet whose original is in the Bahá’í National Archives
of the United States, Abdu’l-Bahá ascribes the “conditions of
unconscious obedience” to the “leaves”:
The contingent beings are the branches of the tree of
life while the Messenger of God is the root of that tree.
The branches, leaves and fruit are dependent for their
existence upon the root of the tree of life. This
condition of unconscious obedience constitutes
subjective faith. But the discerning faith that consists
of true knowledge of God and the comprehension of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
divine words, of such faith there is very little in any age.
That is why His Holiness Christ said to His followers,
“Many are called but few are chosen.” (BWF 364)
As to the adjective “crimson (˙amrá’),” in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings it is used in at least three allegorical and symbolic
ways. First, it is associated with the Manifestation of God,
sometimes depicted as the “Crimson Pillar (rukni’l-˙amrá’)”
(Gems 72, π105, “Jawáhir” 82; “Four Valleys” 58, “Chihár” 150; KI 70,
Kitáb-i-Musta†áb
54). Bahá’u’lláh describes Himself as “the
Promised One … seated upon the crimson cloud (ghamámi’l-
˙amrá’) with the hosts of revelation on His right, and the
angels of inspiration on His left” (“Súriy-i-Vafá” 182, in Majmú’ihí
113); as the “crimson Tree (sidrata’l-˙amrá’)” (“Law˙-i-Siyyid
Mihdíy-i-Dahají” 196, in Majmú’ihí 121) and as the “fruit-laden Tree,
that hath sprung out of the Crimson Hill (ar∂i kathíbi’l-
˙amrá’)” (“Súriy-i-Mulúk” 186, Súratu’l-Mulúk 2).12 He refers to His
Revelation as a “Sinai” enveloped by a “Crimson Light (núra’l-
˙amrá’)” (“Súriy-i-Bayán” 282, in Muntakhabátí 180).13 He also
mentions the “Crimson Ark (as-safínatu’l-˙amrá’)”14 to
describe His Cause;15 the “crimson Spot (al-buq’atu’l-
mubárakatu’l-˙amrá’)” (KA 57, π 100; Epistle 84) to refer to the
prison-city of ‘Akká;16 the “Crimson Book (ßa˙ífiy-i-˙amrá’)”17
to allude to the Book of His Covenant; a “fathomless crimson
sea (al-ba˙ri’l-lujjyi’l-˙amrá’)” (Gems 60, π 83; Jawáhir 69) and a
“crimson wine (khamri’l-˙amrá’” (“Súriy-i-Haykal” 13, in Áthár 1:8)
to denote His own words. Second, the word “crimson” implies
tests and sacrifice, as for example in the Hidden Words:
Write all that We have revealed unto thee with the ink
of light upon the tablet of thy spirit. Should this not be
in thy power, then make thine ink of the essence of thy
heart. If this thou canst not do, then write with that
crimson ink (al-a˙mari) that hath been shed in My path.
Sweeter indeed is this to Me than all else, that its light
may endure for ever.” (HW Arabic # 71)
He also mentions “the crimson land (ar∂i’l-˙amrá’), above the
horizon of tribulation” (“Law˙-i-Fu’ád” 177, in Áthár 1:167) and,
describing the sufferings of the Báb, He writes: “the joy of the
world was changed into sorrow in the crimson land (ar∂i’l-
˙amrá’)” (Gems 22, π 26, Jawáhir 26). Third, “crimson” is referred
also to advanced stages of spiritual development. In this sense

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
Bahá’u’lláh describes the “city of knowledge (madínatu’l-’ilm)”
as “a city whose foundations rest upon mountains of crimson-
coloured ruby (jabála’l-yáqúti’l-˙amrat)” (Gems 17, π 20; Jáváhir
20) and mentions “the shore of the crimson seas (ba˙ri’l-
˙amrá’)” as an “ethereal invisible station” attained by “the
dwellers” of “the ark of eternity” (“Tablet of the Holy Mariner” 222,
221, “Law˙-i-Mallá˙u’l-Quds” 4:335).
At the end of the aforementioned Tablet Bahá’u’lláh
mentions three other members of His family. First He refers to
Jináb-i-Bábá (π 39). This title, that means “his eminence, the
father,” was given by the Bábís to Mírzá Zaynu’l-’Ábidín, one
of Bahá’u’lláh’s four paternal uncles. He had been converted to
the Bábí Faith by Bahá’u’lláh Himself in the early days of the
Dispensation. He was very devoted to his Nephew. In December
1848 he accompanied Bahá’u’lláh, when He intended to reach
Fort ˇabarsí, tried to protect Him from the bastinado to
which He was exposed in that circumstance in Ámul, and as a
consequence was so severely beaten that he fainted (cf. Taherzadeh
3:68 and Ruhe 106). He was Bahá’u’lláh’s guest in Baghdad before
He retired to Kurdistan (cf. Balyuzi 112-3). Having seen part of
Bahá’u’lláh’s vicissitudes with his own eyes, He is called to bear
witness to His words. Second He mentions Óusní Khánum (π
39). A Óusníyyih is recorded in the “Genealogy of Bahá’u’lláh”
(204/205) as one of Bahá’u’lláh’s half-sisters and by Balyuzi as
the daughter of Mírzá Buzurg’s second concubine, a Georgian
lady, Nabát Khánum (14), also called Kúchik (Ruhe 23). Finally He
mentions Íughrá Khánum (π 39). She may be the daughter that
Mírzá Buzurg’s second wife, Khadíjih Khánum, the mother of
Bahá’u’lláh, had from a previous marriage from which she had
been widowed. Not much is known of these two half-sisters.
In this Tablet to Maryam, Bahá’u’lláh explains how “after the
fetters of … [His] foes,” He was “afflicted with the perfidy of …
[His] friends” (π 9). Elsewhere He specifies that His sufferings
came mostly from the machinations of His half-brother Mírzá
Ya˙yá (1831-1912), “surreptitiously duped” (ESW 168) by a
certain Siyyid Mu˙ammad-i-Ißfahání (d. 1872c.), described by
Shoghi Effendi as “a native of Ißfahán, notorious for his
inordinate ambition, his blind obstinacy and uncontrollable
jealousy” (GPB 112). So great was their disloyalty that at last He
decided to “go into retirement” (π 10).18 He alludes to those

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
lonely days, spent in the wilderness, when His only companions
were “the birds of the air” and “the beasts of the field” (π 11) and
refers to His retirement in the mountains of Kurdistan as “the
mightiest testimony and the most perfect and conclusive
evidence” (π 16) of His station. He mentions the circumstances
of His return to Baghdad, which He ascribes to “God’s decree”
(π 19).19 He remembers the rebirth of the grievously declined Bábí
community after His return as a “new Resurrection” (π 23);
describes the “envy of the foes” (π 24), kindled by His courage in
facing “enemies of all sects and tribe” (π 24); and refers to His
willingness to face “the people of sedition (yá’júj, literally the
people of Gog)”20 (π 32) and their constant oppression. The same
events are also narrated in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán (250-2).
Doctrinal Aspects
The mystic oneness of the Manifestations of God
The core of the narration of this epistle is Bahá’u’lláh’s
sufferings that are repeatedly described as the sufferings of
other holy personages of sacred history, comprising previous
Manifestations of God such as the Báb and Abraham. In the
very beginning of His letter He writes: “The wrongs which I
suffer have blotted out the wrongs suffered by My First Name
[the Báb] from the Tablet of creation” (π 1), a sentence that
underlines His oneness with the Báb. Later on He compares His
sufferings to those of Imám Óusayn, of Abraham and again of
the Báb: “This head at one time was raised on a spear-point, at
another was delivered into the hands of Shimr, 21 again I was
cast into fire, and again I was suspended. And this is what the
infidels have wrought against Us” (π 37). In another passage He
describes these holy personages as sharing His grief: “Óusayn
wept for the wrongs I have suffered and the Friend (Abraham)
cast himself into the fire for My grief” (π 7). He writes
moreover: “Were thou to examine carefully the matter, the eyes
of might are weeping behind the Tabernacle of sinlessness
(surádiq-i-’ißmat) and the people of glory are moaning in the
precincts of loftiness” (π 8). Since the attribute of sinlessness
(‘ißmat) is typical of the Manifestations of God, this sentence
may describe the Manifestations of God sharing Bahá’u’lláh’s
grief in the spiritual worlds. And thus all these sentences may

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
be an allusion to the concept of the mystical oneness of the
Manifestations of God.
This theme is recurrent in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings. The
historical figures with whom Bahá’u’lláh identifies Himself are
many. Shoghi Effendi lists “Abraham, Moses, Joseph, John the
Baptist, Jesus, Imám Óusayn, on whom Bahá’u’lláh has
conferred an exceptionally exalted station (and) the Báb” (on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi, qtd. in LG 475). In this vein Bahá’u’lláh
writes in a prayer from Kurdistan:
At one time Thou didst deliver Me into the hands of
Nimrod; at another Thou hast allowed Pharaoh’s rod to
persecute Me … Again I was crucified for having
unveiled to men’s eyes the hidden gems of Thy glorious
unity, for having revealed to them the wondrous signs
of Thy sovereign and everlasting power … In a later age,
I was suspended, and My breast was made a target to
the darts of the malicious cruelty of My foes. My limbs
were riddled with bullets, and My body was torn
asunder. (“Súriy-i-Damm [Tablet of the Blood],” in Gleanings
88-9, XXXIX; cf. Call 96-8)
He also writes: “O Jews! If ye be intent on crucifying once
again Jesus, the Spirit of God, put Me to death, for He hath
once more, in My person, been made manifest unto you” (GWB
100, XLVII); and again: “‘Noah’s flood is but the measure of the
tears I have shed, and Abraham’s fire an ebullition of My soul.
Jacob’s grief is but a reflection of My sorrows, and Job’s
afflictions a fraction of My calamity’” (Ibn-i-Fárid qtd. in
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems 68, π 95).
Imám Óusayn occupies a special position among the
personages with whom Bahá’u’lláh identifies Himself. He writes:
That which hath befallen Us hath been witnessed before.
Ours is not the first goblet dashed to the ground in the
lands of Islám, nor is this the first time that such
schemers have intrigued against the beloved of the
Lord. The tribulations We have sustained are like unto
the trials endured aforetime by Imám Óusayn. (“Súriy-i-
Mulúk” 204)
and also:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
And again Thou didst decree that I be beheaded by the
sword of the infidel …. How bitter the humiliations
heaped upon Me, in a subsequent age, on the plain of
Karbilá! How lonely did I feel amidst Thy people! To
what a state of helplessness I was reduced in that land!
Unsatisfied with such indignities, My persecutors
decapitated Me, and, carrying aloft My head from land
to land paraded it before the gaze of the unbelieving
multitude, and deposited it on the seats of the perverse
and faithless. (Súriy-i-Damm, “Tablet of the Blood,” 88-9)
Shoghi Effendi explains that “Imám Óusayn has, as attested
by the ˆqán, been endowed with special grace and power among
the Imams, hence the mystical reference to Bahá’u’lláh as the
return of Imám Óusayn, meaning the Revelation in Bahá’u’lláh
of those attributes with which Imám Óusayn had been
specifically endowed” (on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, qtd. in LG 496). He
adds in another letter that this fact “does not make him [Imám
Óusayn] a Prophet,” Bahá’u’lláh simply “identifies His Spirit
with these Holy Souls gone before, that does not, of course,
make Him in anyway their reincarnation. Nor does it mean all
of them were Prophets” (on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, LG 498). One of
the meanings of this mystic oneness between the Blessed Beauty
and Imám Óusayn is explained by Bahá’u’lláh Himself:
Behold then, O heedless ones, how brightly the fire of
the love of God blazed aforetime in the heart of Óusayn
… Say: That same fire now blazeth in Mine own breast,
and My wish is that this Óusayn may lay down His life
in like manner, in the hope of attaining unto so august
and sublime a station, that station wherein the servant
dieth to himself and liveth in God, the Almighty, the
Exalted, the Great. (“Súriy-i-Mulúk” 205)
One of the central aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s Manifestation is His
readiness to give His life for humankind. He writes for instance:
From the very day Thou didst reveal Thyself unto me, I
have accepted for myself every manner of tribulation.
Every moment of my life my head crieth out to Thee
and saith: “Would, O my Lord, that I could be raised
on the spear-point in Thy path!” while my blood
entreateth Thee saying: “Dye the earth with me, O my

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
God, for the sake of Thy love and Thy pleasure!” Thou
knowest that I have, at no time, sought to guard my
body against any affliction, nay rather I have
continually anticipated the things Thou didst ordain
for me in the Tablet of Thy decree. (PM 108-9, LXVI, 7)
The Sufferings of the Manifestation of God as
Atonement
The Christian idea of the sufferings of the Manifestation of
God as an atonement for the salvation of humankind is thus
seemingly confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh: “We, verily, have come for
your sakes, and have borne the misfortunes of the world for
your salvation,” He writes in His “Law˙-i-Aqdas,” a Tablet
addressed to the Christians (10). The climax of Christ’s
sufferings was His Passion, characterized by the extreme
physical pains caused by the horrible treatment He was exposed
to in those forty hours. Bahá’u’lláh was also exposed to
physical tortures, first when He was bastinadoed at Ámul in
1848 and then in the terrible months between 16 August and the
half of December 1852, the days spent in the Síyáh-Chál under
the weight of the notorious chain “Qará-Guhar” (ESW 77),
weighing about 50 kilos. In later days He was exposed to
imprisonment, isolation and deprivation, but most of all, like
all the Manifestations of God, He had to face the stubbornness
and iniquity of all the people who rejected His healing message,
in the full awareness of the consequences their refusal would
bring upon all humankind in centuries yet to come. All the
horrors
of
the
twentieth
century,
and
others
still
unaccomplished, were very clear in His all-knowing and all-
loving eyes. Is there any greater pain conceivable for a loving
Father? However, Bahá’u’lláh is certainly not teaching a new
dolorism, that is, salvation wrought by the sheer suffering of
the Manifestation of God. In this Tablet to Maryam, as in
many others, He describes His pains as an example for
humankind to follow: acceptance of whatever may come from
God’s decree in an attitude of love of God, willing submission
to
His
decree,
resignation,
steadfastness,
detachment,
fortitude, spirit of sacrifice, becoming nothing, even
physically if required, in His holy Presence. Bahá’u’lláh wants
Maryam, in this case a human prototype, to know about His
grief, to share it with Him, and to moan for Him. And this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
concept is perfectly in line with the paramount idea that
salvation also comes through His teachings, “the true remedy
which will heal man from all sickness and will give him the health
of the divine kingdom” (SWAB 152), and through the power of
the spirit of Faith that He inspires in whoever observes His
“commandments, for the love of … [His] beauty” (KA 22, π 4).
The uniqueness of His Day and His Cause
Another doctrinal aspect of this Tablet is the uniqueness of
His Day and His Cause, a Cause that “is greater than the
creation of the earth and of the heavens” (π 15), and whose
recognition Bahá’u’lláh identifies with “the Realm of eternal
reunion (bisá†-i-uns, literally carpet of reunion; cf. Kitáb-i-
Musta†áb 197, KI 255)” (π 25), the highest goal of the Sufi path,
achieved only by the greatest spiritual Masters. Therefore,
Maryam is exhorted to “appreciate the value of these days, for
soon … [she will] not see the celestial Youth in the pavilion of
the created world” and she will “behold the signs of
despondency in every thing,” and “the people biting their
fingers’ ends in their longing for this Youth, and … how all of
them will search after Him throughout the heavens and the earth
and will not attain unto His presence” (π 31). Words extolling
the greatness of His Day and of His Cause recur frequently in
His writings. For example He writes:
Had Mu˙ammad, the Apostle of God, attained this
Day, He would have exclaimed: “I have truly recognized
Thee, O Thou the Desire of the Divine Messengers!”
Had Abraham attained it, He too, falling prostrate
upon the ground, and in the utmost lowliness before
the Lord thy God, would have cried: “Mine heart is
filled with peace, O Thou Lord of all that is in heaven
and on earth! I testify that Thou hast unveiled before
mine eyes all the glory of Thy power and the full majesty
of Thy law! I bear witness, moreover, that through Thy
Revelation the hearts of the faithful are well assured
and contented.” Had Moses Himself attained it, He,
likewise, would have raised His voice saying: “All praise
be to Thee for having lifted upon me the light of Thy
countenance and enrolled me among them that have
been privileged to behold Thy face!” (“Súriy-i-Ra’ís” 148-9)

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
He describes His Day as “the Day of God.” He writes for example:
Great indeed is this Day! The allusions made to it in all
the sacred Scriptures as the Day of God attest its
greatness. The soul of every Prophet of God, of every
Divine Messenger, hath thirsted for this wondrous
Day. All the divers kindreds of the earth have, likewise,
yearned to attain it. (“Súriy-i-Qamíß” 11)
And in the “Súriy-i-Haykal” He explains that “the Day of God is
none other but His own Self, Who hath appeared with the
power of truth. This is the Day that shall not be followed by
night, nor shall it be bounded by any praise, would that ye
might understand!” (29). In Gems of Divine Mysteries He
describes His Day as “the Day of Resurrection,” when God
“promised all men that they shall attain unto His own presence”:
Know then that the paradise that appeareth in the day
of God surpasseth every other paradise and excelleth the
realities of Heaven. For when God — blessed and glorified
is He — sealed the station of prophethood in the person
of Him Who was His Friend, His Chosen One, and His
Treasure amongst His creatures, as hath been revealed
from the Kingdom of glory: “but He is the Apostle of
God and the Seal of the Prophets,” He promised all men
that they shall attain unto His own presence in the Day
of Resurrection. In this He meant to emphasize the
greatness of the Revelation to come, as it hath indeed
been manifested through the power of truth. And there
is of a certainty no paradise greater than this, nor
station higher, should ye reflect upon the verses of the
Qur’án. Blessed be he who knoweth of a certainty that
he shall attain unto the presence of God on that day
when His Beauty shall be made manifest. (42-3, π 58)
Passages such as these pose a challenge to His followers. Do they
imply that this Manifestation is greater than any previous one?
Do they justify an exclusivist interpretation?
In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh writes that “it hath been
demonstrated
and
definitely
established,
through
clear
evidences, that by ‘Resurrection’ is meant the rise of the Mani-
festation of God to proclaim His Cause, and by ‘attainment

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
unto the divine Presence’ is meant attainment unto the
presence of His Beauty in the person of His Manifestation”
(169) and explains that the Day of Resurrection is “the Day of
the rise of God Himself through His all-embracing Revelation”
(142). In the same book He suggests the idea that the term “Seal
of the Prophet,” which the Muslims interpret as the proof of
the finality of Mu˙ammad’s revelation, or any other attribute
ascribed to their Prophet, can be ascribed to any other
Manifestation of God, so that “were they all to proclaim: ‘I am
the Seal of the Prophets,’ they verily utter but the truth, beyond
the faintest shadow of doubt.” (178)
In the light of these explanations, it seems that the
emphasized greatness of this specific Day of God should be
read in the context of progressive Revelation. In its essential
reality each Day of God is the greatest, it is the day of the
“attainment unto the divine Presence.” In its phenomenal
reality each Day of God is greater than the previous ones,
because humankind has in the meantime advanced in its
unending journey towards its Creator, and thus the Sun of
Truth can reveal a fuller measure “of the potencies which the
providence of the Almighty hath bestowed upon it” (Bahá’u’lláh,
“Law˙-i-Ibráhím” 87). And since the hand of God will never be
chained up (cf. Kitáb-i-ˆqán 136), an increasingly fuller measure of
the potencies of the Sun of Truth will be revealed in future Days
of God. And, although in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words “centuries,
nay, countless ages, must pass away ere the Day-Star of Truth
shineth again in its mid-summer splendor, or appeareth once
more in the radiance of its vernal glory” (qtd. in World Order 167),
in a remote future day “the Day-Star of Truth” will shine again
“in its mid-summer splendor.”
Progressive Revelation
The concept of progressive revelation is another Bahá’í
doctrine mentioned in this Tablet. This doctrine applies to two
different contexts. On the one hand, it applies to “the chain of
successive Revelations that hath linked the Manifestation of
Adam with that of the Báb” described by Bahá’u’lláh in His
“Law˙-i-Ri∂á (Tablet of Radiant Acquiescence)” (74). On the
other, it applies “even within the ministry of each Prophet” (The
Universal House of Justice, “Introduction” 5). In line with this

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
principle Bahá’u’lláh did not disclose His station immediately
after the first Intimation of His mission which He received in
the Síyáh-Chál of Teheran in October 1852. And thus He wrote
to His cousin Maryam: “The celestial mysteries should not be
unraveled and it is not pleasing that the heavenly secrets be
divulged, that is the mysteries of the inner treasures of My
soul, this I mean, and nothing else” (π 13). In this Tablet, as in
other Writings revealed before 21 April 1863, He simply alluded
to this high Station with such words as
Therefore this evanescent Servant arose for the
protection and the exaltation of the Cause of God, in
such wise that one would say that a new Resurrection
(qiyámat mujaddadan) had come to pass, and the
greatness of the Cause was manifested in every city,
and witnessed in every land, so that all the authorities
showed courtesy and good manners. (π 23)
Only in later years, He openly described His Revelation as “a
new resurrection”: “The heaven of religions is split and the moon
cleft asunder and the peoples of the earth are brought together in
a new resurrection (˙ashri badí’)” (Bahá’u’lláh, TB 247-8, Majmú’ihi
154), He wrote in a Tablet revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.22
The importance of being aware of spiritual reality
Finally in this Tablet to Maryam Bahá’u’lláh also alludes to
the importance of being aware of spiritual reality.
Yea, a man of insight (ßá˙ib-i-baßar) is needed to
behold the Most Great Beauty (manΩar-i-akbar, cf.
“Tablet of A˙mad” π 2) and whosoever has no inner eye
(baßar) is deprived of perceiving the grace of his own
beauty, how much more of the Sacred and Divine
Beauty. (π 17)
The “inner eye (baßar)” is described by Bahá’u’lláh as both a
prerequisite for and a fruit of the recognition of His station.
He writes in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán that
when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing
desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of
rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker’s
heart … the mystic Herald, bearing the joyful tidings of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
the Spirit, [will] shine forth from the City of God
resplendent as the morn … [and will] confer such new
life upon the seeker that he will find himself endowed
with a new eye (chishm-i-jadíd), a new ear (gush-i-badí’),
a new heart (qalb), and a new mind (fu’ád tázih). (Kitáb-
i-Musta†áb 151, Kitáb-i-ˆqán 196)
These words can be easily read in their intellectual, “secular” I
would say, meaning, that is, as describing the condition of any
person who has understood the idea that Bahá’u’lláh is the
Founder of the new World Order. But that may also have a
“mystical” meaning, that is, they may describe a person who
has bent her utmost effort to achieve that communion with the
Soul of the Manifestation, that, in Shoghi Effendi’s words “the
Martyrs seemed to have” achieved “and that “brought them
such ecstasy of joy that life became nothing” (on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, in UD 406). The importance of achieving this spiritual
awareness is emphasized in the following paragraph of our
Tablet to Maryam:
Look how the sea is calm and peaceful in its bed in
majestic dignity and composure. But by reason of the
gales of the Will of the Eternal Beloved, unnumbered
forms and shapes become visible on its surface and all
these billows seem contrary and adverse. And thus all
people busy themselves with the waves and are shut out
as by a veil from the might of the Sea of Seas, from
whose movement the signs of the Unconstrained
become manifest. (π 28)
And thus His invitation to open our inner eye merges with
the central teaching of His Faith, the theme of unity and
oneness. In this case it is the highest Oneness we as human
beings are able to understand. It is neither the oneness of
humankind, nor the oneness of the Manifestations. It is
nothing less than our inner awareness of the fact that
The existence of all shadows endures or moves away by
reason of the existence of the sun. Should the sun
withhold its grace for but a moment, everything would
end in the Pavilion of nothingness. O the pity and the
regret that people should busy themselves with

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
perishing
appearances
and
be
deprived
of
the
Dayspring of eternal holiness. (π 30)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained the same concept thus: “the
phenomena of the universe find realization through the one
power animating and dominating all things, and all things are
but manifestations of its energy and bounty. The virtue of
being and existence is through no other agency” (PUP 285). Only
this awareness will assist us to understand the deeper meaning
of the paramount “oneness of the world of humanity” (PUP 285).
This is the essential difference between a Bahá’í, who should be
turned towards “the Day Star of unfading glory” (π 30) and the
best modern secular intellectuals, who are interested in
“fleeting shadows” (π 30). In other words, the latter are satisfied
with their intellectual understanding of reality and firmly
believe that this is all they can achieve. The former knows that
her intellectual understanding of the oneness of humankind is
just a stepping stone of a deeper awareness of reality. Any
intellectual understanding, as important as it is as a stepping
stone towards the new world order, is not of great use if it is
not assisted by the power created by the spiritual awareness of
this doctrine, that is, by the power of the “Spirit of Faith (al-
rú˙u’l-ímání) which is of the Kingdom (of God) (al-malakútí)”
and which in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words,
consists of the all-comprehending Grace (al-fay∂u’l-
shámil) and the perfect attainment (al-fawzu’l-kámil,
literally perfect salvation, fruition, achievement) and
the power of sanctity (al-quwwatu’l-qudsiyyat) and the
divine effulgence (al-tajallíyu’l-ra˙mání) from the Sun
of Truth (shamsu’l-˙aqíqat) on luminous light-seeking
essences (al-˙aqá’iqu’l-núrániyyatu’l-mustafí∂at) from
the presence of the divine Unity (al-fardániyyat). And
by this Spirit is the life (˙ayát) of the spirit of man (al-
rú˙u’l-insání), when it is fortified thereby, as Christ
saith: “That which is born of the Spirit is Spirit.” (TB
1:116; Makátíb 1:129)
Without the assistance of this “Spirit of Faith,” anyone will
remain “shut out as by a veil from the might of the Sea of Seas,
from whose movement the signs of the Unconstrained become
manifest” (π 26). This inner change, this “mystic, all-pervasive …
change, which we associate with the stage of maturity

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
inevitable in the life of the individual” is “indefinable” (WOB
163-4), and yet it is the practical result of straying “not the
breadth of a hair from the ‘Law,’ for this is indeed the secret of
the ‘Path’ and the fruit of the Tree of ‘Truth’” (SVFV 39), that is,
is the result of service. In ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words:
Whensoever ye behold a person whose entire attention
is directed toward the Cause of God; whose only aim is
this, to make the Word of God to take effect; who, day
and night, with pure intent, is rendering service to the
Cause; from whose behaviour not the slightest trace of
egotism or private motives is discerned — who, rather,
wandereth distracted in the wilderness of the love of
God, and drinketh only from the cup of the knowledge
of God, and is utterly engrossed in spreading the sweet
savours of God, and is enamoured of the holy verses of the
Kingdom of God — know ye for a certainty that this
individual will be supported and reinforced by heaven;
that like unto the morning star, he will forever gleam
brightly out of the skies of eternal grace. (SWAB 71-2)
Ethical Aspects
The ethical aspects of this Tablet are strictly connected with
the spiritual aspect of the importance of the inner eye. The
theomorphic character of Bahá’í ethics may draw us to
understanding spirituality as mere orthopraxis, or a way of
being and living that is consistent with the ethical teachings of
the Faith. One of the reasons why Bahá’u’lláh narrates in this
Tablet to Maryam, as in other Tablets, some of the episodes of
His life may be that He wants His behavior to become an
example for His followers. In this vein He writes:
My expulsion from My country was for no other
reason except My love for the Beloved, and my removal
from My land was for no other motive but My willing
submission to the Goal of all desire. (π 2)
And with these words He seemingly recommends to accept
whatever may come in the path of His service. He also writes:

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
In the summons of God’s decree I was even as a kindled
and shining lamp and in the time of heavenly trials I
was as steadfast as a mountain. (π 3)
And with these words He seems to recommend fortitude and
steadfastness, as important virtues in our daily lives, if we
want to comply with His words: “Observe My commandments,
for the love of My beauty” (KA 20, π 4). He writes moreover:
In the revelations of grace I was even as a raining cloud
and in restraining the enemies of the King of Oneness
as a blazing fire. (π 4)
And we may understand from these words that we should be
able to reflect in our daily lives both the divine attributes of
beauty and of majesty. This advice should warn us against the
Italian “Buon-ismo,” that is “an excessive and moralistic
benevolent attitude in social relation … an excessive, and
sometimes mawkish or pathetic sentimentalism” (Battaglia 174),
translated by Gigi Padovani, an Italian journalist of the well-
known newspaper of Turin La Stampa, as “Good-ism”23 and
reminiscent of the “terminal niceness” sometimes ascribed to
the Bahá’ís
(cf.
Martin). All these statements of ethical
importance are poignantly summarized thus:
This Youth departed in such a state that My succor
were the drops of My tears, My confidants the sighs of
My heart, and My friend My pen, and My companion
My Beauty, and my army My reliance, and my people
(hizb) My trust. (π 33)
Whatever may come, a lover of the Blessed Beauty should be
ready to do whatever is required from him so that he may
become fully aware of both “the grace of his own beauty” and
“the Sacred and Divine Beauty” (π 17).
Orthopraxis is not Tantamount to Spirituality
However, good ethical behavior does not seem to be the only
prerequisite of spirituality. Spirituality or “spiritual progress
(taraqqíy-i-raw˙ání)” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Majmú’ih 378; PUP 142) is “the
acquisition of spiritual virtues and powers” (on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, qtd. in Bahá’í News 102 [August 1936] 3). One of the “spiritual
virtues and powers” that should be acquired is the capacity “to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
perceive the Divine reality of things (˙aqáyiq-i-áshyá, literally:
the essential realities of all things) … by the power of the Holy
Spirit (az nafathát-i-rú˙u’l-qudus, literally: by the issuing forth
of the Holy Spirit)” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Majmu’ih 138; PT 83, 28.7).
Therefore, although undoubtedly there is no spirituality
without good ethical behavior, spirituality implies an
awareness that goes beyond the best ethical behavior. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá clearly explains this concept: “Although a person of good
deeds is acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty, yet it is
first ‘to know (dánistan),’ and then ‘to do (‘amal)’” (TB 3:549). In
His explanations to the leading American Bahá’í teacher and
philanthropist Laura Clifford-Barney (1879-1974) He shed a
greater light on what He means:
…if to the knowledge of God (‘irfán-i-iláhí) is joined the
love of God, and attraction, ecstasy and goodwill, a
righteous action is then perfect and complete.
Otherwise, though a good action is praiseworthy, yet if
it is not sustained by the knowledge of God, the love of
God, and a sincere intention, it is imperfect. (SAQ 302,
Mufáva∂át 211).
On the same issue He wrote:
If thou wishest the divine knowledge (‘irfán-i-iláhí) and
recognition (shinásá’í), purify thy heart from all beside
God, be wholly attracted to the ideal, beloved One;
search for and choose Him and apply thyself to
rational and authoritative arguments. For arguments
are a guide to the path and by this the heart will be
turned unto the Sun of Truth. And when the heart is
turned unto the Sun, then the eye will be opened and
will recognize the Sun through the Sun itself. Then man
will be in no need of arguments (or proofs), for the Sun
is altogether independent, and absolute independence
is in need of nothing, and proofs are one of the things
of which absolute independence has no need. Be not like
Thomas; be thou like Peter. I hope you will be healed
physically, mentally and spiritually. (TB 1:168, Makatíb 8:119)
In this vein Bahá’u’lláh writes to Maryam:

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
Be a companion of the Self of the Merciful (nafs-i-
ra˙mán)
and
from
the
association
with
and
resemblance to Satan enter beneath the shelter of the
sanctity of the Bountiful, that perchance the hand of
Divine grace may draw thee away from the paths of
passion unto the heavens of everlasting might and
glory. (π 29)
It is the path of the Four Valleys, a path that goes layer after
layer from the outer expression of the individual to her inner
core, her consciousness. First, from the outer layer of the self it
goes to the inner core of “the pleasing soul” (50). Second, from
the outer layer of a “feeble brain” it moves towards the core of
a “ready … heart” (52, 54). Third, from the outer layer of the
“loving seeker” (54) it descends to the core of a “mote of
knowledge” released from “desire and the lowly clay” (57). And
finally, from the outer layer of a “wayfarer” in “the snow-white
path” (58) it advances towards the core of “full awareness, of
utter self-effacement” (60). Only in this condition the “waves”
will stop shutting the seeker “out as by a veil from the might of
the Sea of Seas” (π 28) and the seeker will enter “the heavens of
everlasting might and glory” (π 29).
Literary aspects
Bahá’u’lláh wrote in the “Súriy-i-Haykal” that He has revealed
His writings “in nine different modes” (π 51, in Summons 27) and
the prominent Persian Bahá’í scholar, Fá∂il-i-Mázindarání
(1880c.-1957), has tried to identify them (cf. Taherzadeh, Revelation
1:42). If we adopt his classification, our Tablet to Maryam may
fall within the category of “Tablets exhorting men to
education, goodly character and divine virtues” (Taherzadeh,
Revelation 1:42). Specifically it can be considered as an example of
the letters, murásilát, written by Bahá’u’lláh to the believers
who were far from Him, such as the Tablet addressed to “May
handmaiden and My Leaf” and published in its English
translation in Tablets 251-3.
The style chosen by Bahá’u’lláh for this warm missive to His
beloved cousin, certainly worrying for Him and for His
difficulties, is saj.’ The rhymed and rhythmic prose known as
saj’ has pre-Islamic origins. It was used by the ancient Arabic

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
káhin, soothsayers and sorcerers. Mu˙ammad ennobled it into
the inimitable style of the Qur’án. The Italian orientalist
Alessandro Bausani (1921-1988) remarks that “the same
inimitability
of
the
Qur’ánic
prose,
sacred
and
unapproachable by definition, prevented this device from
being generalized as the normal prose in the early days of
Arabic literature” (in Pagliaro and Bausani 505). The saj’ flourished
only after the fourth century AH (tenth century AD). The main
characters of Persian saj,’ much loved by the greatest Persian
prose-writers, are: rhyme, comprising the use of homomorphic
words; rhythm, in the absence of any strict observance of the
consistent rhythmic patterns typical of poetry; a clever
utilization of the rhyming and rhythmic possibilities of the
Persian nominal and verbal forms; a skillful suppression of the
auxiliary verbs, which given their position at the end of the
sentences
may
create
according
to
Bausani
“cloying
repetitions” (in Pagliaro e Bausani 506); the use of double lines of
parallel words, known as hashv or redundancy; the use of
Arabic and/or scholarly words, locutions or even whole
sentences; the use of quotations from the Qur’án, the
Traditions, the Arabic and Persian poets; and the intention of
“‘borrowing some elegance from every man of letters’” (Browne,
Literary History 88). The use of rhyme and rhythm typical of
poetry and the simplicity of Persian syntax, that prefers
paratactic constructions, contribute to create an exquisite
and refined prose that has the same effects as poetry itself.
Besides, the lack of the prosodic rules of poetry enables saj’
writers to reproduce the same trenchant effects of poetry while
benefiting from the flexibility of prose. The Persian literature
is rich in wonderful examples of this literary form. However, in
later centuries saj’ has sometimes degenerated into “a certain
monotony of topic, style, and treatment” as well as a “flabby,
inflated, bombastic style” (Brown, Literary History 2:88, 89).
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian prose has been universally considered of
the highest level and greatest elegance. His style, specifically
that of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, has been eulogized by Shoghi Effendi
as “at once original, chaste and vigorous, and remarkably
lucid, both cogent in argument and matchless in its irresistible
eloquence” (GPB 138). Browne stressed its “simplicity and
directness” and “concise and strong” style and compared it to
that of “the Chahár Maqala, composed some seven centuries

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
earlier…” (Literary History 2:89). Balyuzi qualified the Hidden
Words’ prose as “lucid, captivating” (159) and that of the Seven
Valleys as “matchless in its beauty, simplicity and profundity”
(161). Bausani (1921-1988) mentioned Bahá’u’lláh’s “extremely
beautiful traditional style,” described it as “a Sa’dian style,
both simple and elegant” and complained that it has
“unfortunately” been “abandoned in favor of the more realistic
and spoken, albeit sometimes also more complicated, tone of
the contemporary prose” (in Pagliaro and Bausani 538).
The first formal element immediately perceived by any reader
of this Tablet to Maryam is its poetical musicality. This element
characterizes almost all Bahá’u’lláh’s writings of the Baghdadi
period and is a fundamental aspect, although in different
modes, of His Tablets of later years. The musicality and the
rhythmic assonance of the short successive sentences are
reminiscent of the best examples of Persian rhymed or ornate
prose, nathr-i-árástih, typical of the compositions of such
ancient authors as the Sufi ‘Abdu’lláh Anßárí (1006-1088), who
composed beautiful Munájját, Prayers, as Nidhámí-i-’Arú∂í
(the Prosodist) of Samarqand (d. 1174), the author of Chahár
Maqála (Four Discourses) to which Browne compared the prose
of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán (cf. Literary History 2:336) and as the Persian
poet and prose writer Sa’dí (1184-1291), the author of the
celebrated Gulistán and Bústán. They are also very close to the
Munsha’át, prose compositions, of the more recent Mírzá Abú’l-
Qásim, Qá’im Maqám (vicegerent) of Faráhán (1779-1835),
whose “Sa’dian style” is characterized according to Bausani by
a great attention to the harmony of the periods; the use
of short sentences; a great skill in placing the various
components of a renewed sentence in a non-
monotonous and varied correspondence; the abolition
of excessive titles, complimentary remarks and litanies;
a smaller number of continuous quotations of Arabic
and Persian verses in the prosaic text; the elimination
of undue metaphors and similitudes of bad taste;
concision (in Pagliaro e Bausani 535).
These merits may also be ascribed to this Tablet to Maryam,
that is moreover characterized by short sentences; the couplets
of musically parallel sentences; the elimination, whenever it is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
possible, of redundant auxiliary verbs; the use of scholarly
words of great poetical and musical impact; the specific
combination of scholarly words rich in mystical meanings and
metaphorical and symbolic images, used to enhance the
semantic effect of the words; and other formal constructions.
All these features contribute to create a poetical structure
characterized by an unceasing and pressing rhythmical cadence
resulting from the exact and perfect disposition of each single
word. The ensuing rhythmic harmony runs across the whole
Tablet and enables each word to express the highest possible
level of communication and incisiveness.
Some of the formal aspects of the Tablet will now be
illustrated through an analysis of the first four sentences.
1. ay maryam! maΩlúmiyyat-am maΩlúmiyyat-i-ism-i-
avval-am rá az law˙-i-imkán ma˙v nimúdih
2. va az sa˙áb-i-qa∂á am†ár-i-balá fí kulli ˙ayn bar ín
jamál-i-mubín bárídih. (π 1)
This first two sentences of the Tablet offer an example of jinás,
rhythmic assonance, in the repetition of the word maΩlúmiyyat
(wrongs), in the use of the two homomorphic words, law˙
(Tabled) and ma˙v (blotted out), and of the two rhyming
locutions sa˙áb-i-qa∂á (clouds of God’s decree) and am†ár-i-
balá (showers of affliction), that also are an example of tashbí˙,
poetical similitude. They also comprise two composed verbs
nimúdih (translated as “blotted out” together with ma˙v) and
bárídih (rained) that, beside rhyming with one another, are also
deprived of their auxiliary verbs.
3. ikhráj az va†an-am sababí juz ˙ubb-i-ma˙búb na-
búdih
4. va dúrí az dyár-am illatí juz ri∂áy-i-maqßúd. (π 2)
Sentences three and four are related to one another by the
subtle thread of their rhythmic assonance and the redundant
ornamental preciosities. They are rhymed through the rhyming
and homophonic words, va†an-am (My country) and dyár-am
(My land), sababí (reason) and illatí (motive), and locutions,
˙ubb-i-ma˙búb (love for the beloved) and ri∂áy-i-maqßúd
(willing submission to the Goal of all desire). The formal

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
symmetry of the two sentences enhances the efficacy of the
expressed concepts, which seems to be the final intention of the
Writer.
Other aspects of Arabic and Persian rhetoric, seemingly used
by Bahá’u’lláh as a stylistic instrument at the service of His
revealed Word, are such literary devices as i∂áfiy-i-isti’árí,
metaphorical genitive; isti’árih, metaphor; trope, tamthíl,
similitude, allegory, comprising the use of words describing
lofty
aspects
of
nature;
talmí˙,
allusion,
comprising
quotations from the Qur’án, the Traditions and poems; the use
of mutirádifát, synonymy. He Himself explained that He used
all these devices “out of deference to the wont of men and after
the manner of the friends” (SVFV 26), so that His addressees may
better understand His meanings.
As to i∂áfiy-i-isti’árí, metaphorical genitive, its use in
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings has been extensively commented upon by
Bausani and Christopher Buck, an expert on Islamic and
religious studies.24 In his explanation of the locution varqá’u’l-
’irfán (the nightingale of knowledge), Bausani observes that
Western readers could be misled by the genitive used in its
translation. He explains that “the preposition ‘of,’ which
translates the Persian relational particle -i, is to be divested of
the strictly and heavily possessive meaning typical of our
languages” (Saggi 149). Therefore “the nightingale of knowledge”
does not mean a nightingale whose owner knowledge is, ‘just as
the house of the father is owned by the father,’ but it means a
nightingale which is knowledge, i.e., a nightingale which
“emblematically represents on the physical level what knowledge
is on the metaphysical level” (Saggi 151-2). If we take the locution
law˙-i-imkán (Tablet of Creation) (π 1) as an example of
metaphorical genitive in this Tablet, it may be interpreted as a
Tablet which is, or stands for, the creation. Buck points out
that the metaphorical genitive used by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-
i-ˆqán is “an important exegetical device.” Bahá’u’lláh, he
writes, “interprets a verse in a certain way, explicating a
symbol by suggesting its referent. He then uses both symbol
and referent together, bound grammatically by the Persian
metaphorical genitive, to reinforce his exegesis.” According to
Buck, while Bahá’u’lláh repeatedly uses the metaphorical
genitive, He accustoms His readers to relate the symbol and the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
referent. Therefore “far from being merely ornate, his style
renders the actual task of interpretation easier, as Bahá’u’lláh
acclimates the reader to a metaphorical view of reality” (161).
As to isti’árih, metaphor, trope, Bahá’u’lláh uses the
beautiful metaphor to “take the celestial pearls out of the shell
of silence (la`Alíy-i-ra˙mání rá az ßadaf-i-ßamt bírún avarad)” (π
20). He also writes:
What does the shadow understand of the One Who
casteth it? And what does a handful of clay
comprehend of a subtle heart? (Ωill az muΩil chih idrák
namáyad? va mushtí gill az la†ífiy-i-dil chih fahm
kunad?) (π 18)
And again:
All the seas of the world and the rivers gushing
therefrom flow forth from the eyes of this Youth,
which have taken the semblance of a cloud and weep for
their oppression (jamí’-i-miyáh-i-’álam va anhári-i-
járíyiy-i-án az chashm-i-ghulám ast kih bi-hi’at-i-
ghamám Ωáhir shudih va bar maΩlúmíyyat-i-khud
girístih). (π 35)
Among the metaphors may be listed also the words and
locutions He uses to describe Himself. These words and
locutions depict Him as the perfect Image of God, such as
nafs-i-ra˙mán, “Self of the Merciful” (π 29); as the embodiment
of the divine majesty, such as sul†án-i-dín, “King of faith” (π
26); as the Source of the Divine light, such as shams-i-’izz-i-
baqíyyih, “Day Star of unfading glory” (cf. GWB 83:4, 124:3) (π 30),
ma†la’-i-quds-i-báqí, “Dayspring of eternal holiness” (π 30),
nayir-i-áfáq, “Day-Star of the world” (cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SWAB 112)
(π 22); as the Bearer of God’s message, such as qalam-i-qidam,
“the Pen of the Ancient of Days” (cf. GWB 60:3) (π 25); as the
embodiment of God’s Beauty, jamál-i-mubín, “veilless Beauty”
(cf. Persian Hidden Word # 9) (π 1), manΩar-i-akbar, “Most Great
Beauty” (cf. “Tablet of Ahmad,” in BP 210, literally the most great
countenance) (π 17), jamál-i-quds-i-ma’naví, “the Sacred and
Divine Beauty” (π 17), jamál-i-qidam, “Ancient Beauty” (π 38); as
the “Object of the adoration of all mankind” (Bahá’u’lláh, PM 48),
such as ghulám, “Youth” (π 31, 33, 35), ghulám-i-kan’ání,

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
“Canaanite Youth,” also an allusion to His mystical oneness
with the beauteous Joseph) (π 19), ghulám-i-raw˙ání, “celestial
Youth” (π 31), and also dúst, “the Friend” (π 36), Who loves each
human being for her “own sake” (“Súriy-i-Haykal 199); and finally
as the embodiment of perfect servitude to God and utter self-
effacement, such as ‘abd, “Servant” (π 24, 32), bandiy-i-fání,
“evanescent Servant” (cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SWAB 7) (π 23), bí-nishán,
“Traceless One” (cf. SVFV 7) (π 19), a servant who is therefore
mahjúr-i-miskín, “poor and forsaken” (π 20).
As to tamthíl, similitude, allegory, comprising the use of
words describing lofty aspects of nature, in this vein Bahá’u’lláh
alludes to the steadfastness of “a mountain (jibal)” (π 3), the
generosity of a “raining cloud (abr-i-barándih)” (π 4), the
fierceness of a “blazing fire (shu’liy-i-furúzandih)” (π 4) and the
swiftness of a “flash (or lightening, barq)” (π 12). He mentions
“the birds of the air (†uyúr-i-ßa˙rá)” and “the beasts of the field
(vu˙úsh-i-ghazá)” as His only companions (π 11) (cf. “Súriy-i-
Haykal 96, 133), the “oceans (al-abhár),” the “waves (al-ámwáj),”
and the “fruits (al-athmár)” as having never borne what He bore
(π 14). He also alludes to “the immensity of the heavens (fa∂áy-i-
khush, cf. GWB 327, CLII, 6) of detachment” (π 26).
As to talmí˙, allusion, comprising quotations from the
Qur’án, the Traditions and poems, He writes at least three
Qur’án-like sentences: “Verily He guideth all things into a
straight path” (cf. Qur’án 2:142, 213) (π 19); “Nor is that for God
any great matter” (cf. Qur’án 14:20) (π 20); and “soon you will bite
your fingers’ ends” (cf. Qur’án 3:115; KI 77) (π 31). The first two
sentences are reminiscent of other Qur’ánic verses often
quoted by Bahá’u’lláh, such as “all is from God” (4:80; cf.
Bahá’u’lláh, SVFV 18), “There is no power or might but in God”
(18:39; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, KI 252), “Nothing can befall us but what God
hath destined for us” (9:51; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, SVFV 35, reportedly quoted
by Mullá Óusayn in Nabíl 337), God bestows “His grace on such of
His servants as He pleaseth” (2:84; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, SVFV 41),
“Guided indeed is he whom God guideth; but for him whom He
misleadeth, thou shalt by no means find a patron” (18:16; cf.
Bahá’u’lláh, “Four Valleys” 53) and “He doeth what He willeth,
ordaineth what He pleaseth” (2:254, 5:1; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, GWB 116,
LIX, 3). All these Qur’ánic verses convey the idea of divine
power and human powerlessness which is typical of the Bahá’í

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
writings. They also denote the concept that divine grace enables
human beings to return to God, in spite of their great
weakness. As to “soon you will bite your fingers’ ends” (cf.
Qur’án 3:115; KI 77), it refers to a Qur’ánic passage describing
evil and deceitful people, who, the Qur’án writes, “when they
meet you, they say, ‘We believe;’ but when they are apart, they
bite their fingers’ ends at you, out of wrath” (3:15). Bahá’u’lláh
seemingly uses this metaphor to describe regretting people. In
the same category of talmí˙, allusion, may also fall the many
allusions to personages of sacred history, such as Abraham,
Joseph (Canaanite Youth, ghulám-kan’ání), Imám Óusayn, or
Shimr and yá’júj (the people of Gog), as well as to eschatological
events, such as the Resurrection (qiyámat).
As to the use of mutirádifát, synonymy, Bahá’u’lláh
describes Himself as “alone and friendless (fardan va vá˙idan)”
(π 10), His departure from Baghdad as “the mightiest testimony
(˙ujjatí) and the most perfect and conclusive evidence
(bur˙ání)” (π 16). Moreover He mentions His “companions
(mu’ánis)” and “associates (mujalis)” (π 11).
Law˙-i-Maryam’s poetics and inner rhythm enable the reader
to fully perceive and share the painful events narrated by Bahá’-
u’lláh and reveal the special love He gracefully nourished for a
woman who was at His service in the dawn of His Revelation.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ. Alvá˙-i-Vaßáyáy-i-Mubárakih Óa∂rat-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá. The
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Pakistan, 1960.
——— An-Núru’l-Abhá fí Mufáva∂át-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá. New Delhi: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.
——— Majmú’iyi-Kha†ábát-i-Óa∂rat-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá. Langenhain: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1984.
——— Makátíb-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 1. Tehran: Ma†ba’a Kurdistán al
‘Ilmiyya, 1328/1910.
———
Makátíb-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá.
Vol.
8.
Tehran:
Mu’assisiy-i-Millí
Ma†bu’át-i-Amrí, n.d.
———
Muntakhabátí
az
Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá.
Vol.
3.
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1992.
——— Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas. 3 vols. New York: Bahá’í Publishing
Society, 1909-1915.

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
——— Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá’ fí Tarjumat Óayát Qudamá’ al-A˙ibbá.’ Haifa:
Ma†ba’ahu’l-’Abbásíyah, 1343 AH [1924 AD].
The American Bahá’í. A monthly newspaper of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. Wilmette, Illinois:
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 1970-.
BÁB, THE. Muntakhabát-i-Áyát az Áthár-i-Óa∂rat-i-Nuq†iy-i-Úlá. Tehran:
Mu’assisiy-i-Millí Ma†bu’át-i-Amrí, 1978.
Bahá’í News. A monthly news journal published by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. Wilmette, Illinois:
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 1924-.
Bahá’í World 5 (1932-1934). New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1936.
Bahá’í World 14 (1963-1968). Haifa: The Universal House of Justice, 1974.
Bahá’í World 14 (1963-1968). Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Bahá’í World Faith: Selected Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Rev.
ed. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956.
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH. Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A’lá: Kitáb-i-Mubín. Vol. 1. 3rd ed. Dundas,
Ontario: Institute for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 1996.
——— Áthár-i-qalam-i-a’lá. Vol. 3. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 129
B.E./1972-73.
——— ‘Jawáhiru’l-Asrár,’ in Áthár-i-qalam-i-a’lá, vol. 3, pp.4-88.
——— Kitáb-i-Musta†áb-i-ˆqán. Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt,
1934. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
——— “Law˙-i-Mallá˙u’l-Quds,” in Má’idih 4:335-41.
——— Majmú’ih’i az Alváh-i-Jamál-i-Aqdas-i-Abhá Kih Ba’ad az Kitáb-i-
Aqdas Názil Shud. 2nd ed. Hofheim: Bahá’í-Verlag, 2000.
——— Muntakhabátí az Áthár-i-Óa∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahá’í-Verlag, 1984.
———
Súratu’l-Mulúk.
Az
Alváh-i-Muqaddas-i-Óa∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh.
Published by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Pakistan. Karachi: Mashhúr Offset Press, n.d.
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH, et al. Ad’iyyih-i-Óa∂rat-i-Ma˙búb. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
——— Bishárat an-Núr. 3 vols. in 1. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1983.
Bahíyyih Khánum. The Greatest Holy Leaf. Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 1982.
BALYUZI, Hassan M. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1980.
BATTAGLIA, Salvatore and Edoardo Sanguineti. Grande dizionario della
lingua italiana. Supplemento 2004. Turin: UTET, 2005.
Bausani, Alessandro. Saggi sulla Fede Bahá’í. Rome: Casa Editrice Bahá’í, 1991.
——— “Some Aspects of the Bahá’í Expressive Style,” in World Order 13.2
(Winter 1978-1979):36-43.
BLOMFIELD, Sitarih. Chosen Highway. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1967.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
BROWNE, Edward Granville (ed.). A Literary History of Persia. 4 vols.
Bethesda, Maryland: Iranbooks 1997.
——— Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion. Cambridge: University
Press, 1918.
BUCK, Christopher. Symbol and Secret: Qur’án Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Kitáb-i-ˆqán. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1995.
Call to Remembrance: Connecting the Heart to Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois, 1992.
DHUKÁ’Í BAY∂Á’Í,
Ni’matu’lláh.
Tadhkiriy-i-Shu’aráy-i-Qarn-i-Avval-i-
Bahá’í. 4 vols. Teheran: Mu’assisiy-i-Millí Ma†bu’át-i-Amrí, 1347-1350
[1968-1971].
“Genealogy of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Bahá’í World 5:204/205.
HOFMAN, David. Bahá’u’lláh: The Prince of Peace. Oxford: George Ronald 1992.
ISHRÁQ-KHÁVARÍ, ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd. Ganj-i-Sháyigán. Teheran: Mu’assisiy-i-
Millí Ma†bu’át-i-Amrí, 123 EB [1967-8].
——— , ed. Má’idiy-i-Ásmání. Tehran: Mu’assisiy-i-Millí Ma†bu’át-i-Amrí,
129 EB [1973].
——— Mu˙á∂irát. 2 vols. in one. 3rd ed. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1994.
——— Ra˙íq-i Makhtúm. 2 vols. Tehran: Mu’assisiy-i-Millí Ma†bu’át-i-
Amrí, 103 EB [1947-8].
——— , ed. Risáliy-i-Ayyám-i-Tis’ih. Tehran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
——— , ed. Risáliy-i-Tasbí˙ va Tahlíl. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
——— The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Part of a commentary by the renowned
scholar ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-Khávarí. Translated and adapted by Óabíb
ˇáhirzádih. Bahá’í World 14:620-32.
LANE, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. CD-Rom Edition
published by Thesaurus Islamicus Foundation. Cairo: Tradigital, 2003.
[Lane, Edward William (1801-1876). An Arabic-English Lexicon. London
and Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863-93.]
“The Leiden list of the works of Bahá’u’lláh,” edited by Sen McGlinn.
http://bahai-library.org/resources/ (accessed 11 June 2006).
MALIK KHUSRAVÍ, Mu˙ammad ‘Ali. Iqlím-i-Núr. (Land of Nur). Iran: n.p.,
115 BE/ 1959. PDF Edition digitally republished, East Lansing, Mi.: H-
Bahai, 2006.
MARTIN, Douglas. “Humanity’s Coming Encounter With Bahá’u’lláh. Talk
by J. Douglas Martin, member of the Universal House of Justice (then
Director-General of the Bahá’í World Center Office of Public
Information),” in The American Bahá’í, 9 April 1992, http://bahai-
library.org/talks/encounter.html.
MAZANDARÁNÍ, Asadu’lláh Fa∂il. Taríkh-i-Ωuhúru’l-Óaqq. [History of the
Manifestation of Truth] Volume 5. H-Bahai: Lansing, Michigan, 1999.

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary
NABÍL-I-A’ΩAM
(Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandi).
The
Dawn-Breakers:
Nabíl’s
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated by
Shoghi Effendi. New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1932.
PAGLIARO, Antonino e Alessandro Bausani. La Letteratura Persiana.
Florence: Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
RUHE, David S. Robe of Light: The Persian Years of Bahá’u’lláh. George
Ronald, 1994.
SHOGHI EFFENDI. Kitáb-i-Qarn-i-Badí.’ Canada: Persian Institute for Bahá’í
Studies, 1992.
Star of the West. The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world, published
from 1910 to 1924. Reprint. Oxford: George Ronald, 1978.
STEINGASS, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary
including the Arabic words and phrases to be met with in Persian
literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.
Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1973.
TAHERZADEH, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1974-1987.
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE. “Introduction,” in Synopsis 1-7.
WALBRIDGE, John. Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time (Bahá’í Studies
1). Oxford: George Ronald, 1996.

NOTES
1 The “Leiden list” describes it as “164. Law˙-i Maryam Ak1 (Tablet to
Maryam from ‘Akka), ‘Akka. Risalih Ayam Tis’ih 366-371; Rahiq-i
Makhtum vol. 2 430-435” and distinguishes it from “165. Law˙-i
Maryam B1 (Tablet to Maryam from Baghdad I). Taherzadeh, Revelation
vol. 1 gives a short extract, cited from the Chosen Highway p. 45.” The
same source specifies: “There were several tablets known as Alvah-i
Maryam. One of them in INBA [Iranian National Bahá’í Archives
(Teheran archives)] 28. Part of one apparently sent from Baghdad is
translated in Browne, ‘Materials’ p. 8. Addressee and circumstances see
Taherzadeh, ‘Revelation’ vol. 1 13. One is discussed at [Ishraq-Khavari]
Muhadirat 462-4. See also Ziyarat-Namih-i Maryam. One Law˙-i
Maryam is included in BWC Best Known [“Bahá’í Bibliography. 1.
Bahá’ulláh’s Best-Known Works,” in Bahá’í World 16:574-5].”
2 Lane gives the following meaning of ‘ajam: “Foreigners, as meaning
others than Arabs; often used as implying disparagement, like
barbarians; and often especially meaning Persians” (s.v. ‘jm). In later
years Bahá’u’lláh also stigmatized Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh “as the ‘Prince of
Oppressors (ra’ís aΩ-Ωalimín)’” (GPB 197, Kitáb-i-Qarn 397, cf. “Súratu’l-
Amín”).
3 She was a daughter of Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Óasan, son of Mírzá Buzurg
and of his first wife Khán-Nanih, and thus an older half-brother of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight

Bahá’u’lláh, to whom he remained a loyal follower (cf. Balyuzi 13 and
Taherzadeh 1:16).
4 All translations from the Persian or Italian are by the authors, unless
otherwise specified.
5 Qays Ibn al-Mulawwah is Laylí’s lover, nicknamed Majnún, that is, pos-
sessed by a demon or jínn because he was driven mad by his love for Laylí.
6 Zulaykhá is the name ascribed by Muslim tradition to Potiphar’s wife
who fell in love with Joseph.
7 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh et al., Bishárat 37-8, provisionally translated by Ms.
Gloria Shahzadeh.
8 For the text cf. Ishráq-Khávarí (ed.), Risáliy-i-Tasbí˙ 242-70; Bahá’u’lláh
et al., Ad’iyyih 217-8. For a discussion of its contents cf. Ishráq-
Khávarí, “Writings” 628-30, Taherzadeh 1:122-5, Walbridge 267-8.
9 “Recent Tablets from Abdul Bahá to American Baháis,” in Star of the
West 10:13 (4 November 1919):245; for the last part of this Tablet cf.
Selections 311-2. This Tablet is addressed to “Mother Beecher,” Ellen V.
Tuller Beecher (1840-1932).
10 “Recent Tablets from Abdul Bahá to American Baháis,” in Star of the
West 10:17 (19 January 1920):320, “Tablets received by American Baháis
in 1919,” in Star of the West 11:10 (September 1920):164. The first
Tablet is addressed to Emily Olsen and Mabel Rice-Wray.
11 “Tablets received by American Baháis in 1919,” in Star of the West 11:10
(8 September 1920):166. This Tablet was addressed to Jennie Anderson.
12 The metaphor of the “crimson tree” was also used by the Báb in His
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá,’ Chapter XXVIII: “This Tree of Holiness, dyed
crimson (al-mu˙ammarat) with the oil of servitude, hath verily sprung
forth out of your own soil in the midst of the Burning Bush” (Selections
52, Muntakhabát Áyát 34).
13 The metaphor of the “Crimson Light” as referring to Bahá’u’lláh was
used by the Báb in His Qayyúmu’l-Asmá,’ Chapter XXVIII: “And when
the appointed hour hath struck, do Thou, by the leave of God, the All-
Wise, reveal from the heights of the Most Lofty and Mystic Mount a
faint, an infinitesimal glimmer of Thy impenetrable Mystery, that they
who have recognized the radiance of the Sinaic Splendour may faint
away and die as they catch a lightning glimpse of the fierce and crimson
Light (núra’l-muhaymanu’l-˙amrá’) that envelops Thy Revelation. And
God is, in very truth, Thine unfailing Protector” (Selections 53,
Muntakhabát Áyát 35). Cf. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 97.
14 Kitáb-i-Aqdas 50, π 84; Epistle 85, 88, 91; Gleanings 170, LXXXVI, 1,
Muntakhabátí 113; “Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih” 71, Majmú’ihí 39; “Law˙-i-
Dunyá” 97, Majmú’ihí 56; “Ishráqát” 120, 134, Majmú’ihí 69, 79.
15 The metaphor of the “crimson ark” as Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause was
introduced by the Báb in His Qayyúmu’l-Asmá,’ Chapter LVII: “Indeed

Tablet to Maryam: Commentary

God hath created everywhere around this Gate oceans of divine elixir,
tinged crimson (mu˙ammaran) with the essence of existence and
vitalized through the animating power of the desired fruit; and for them
God hath provided Arks of ruby, tender, crimson-coloured (sufunan min
yáqútihi’l-ra†bati’l-˙amrá’), wherein none shall sail but the people of
Bahá, by the leave of God, the Most Exalted; and verily He is the All-
Glorious, the All-Wise” (SWB 57-58, Muntakhabát Áyát 38). Cf. Shoghi
Effendi, GPB 23. The “crimson ark” is called fulki’l-˙amrá’ in one of
Bahá’u’lláh’s prayers (PM 44, XXXIV, 3, Munáját 35).
16 In the English locution the “embellished, the luminous, the crimson City
of God (madíniy-i-muzayyaniy-i-munavvariy-i-yáqútíyiy-i-iláhí)” (TB 260,
Majmú’ihí 167) crimson translates yáqútíyih, literally ruby red.
17 Epistle 24; “Law˙-i-Dunyá,” in Tablets 89, 90, in Majmú’ihí 50, 51;
“Kitáb-i-’Ahd,” in Tablets 220, in Majmú’ihí 135; TB 242, Majmú’ihí 149.
18 Bahá’u’lláh spent almost two years (10 April 1854-19 March 1855) in the
Kurdistan mountains. First He lived in a remote place named Sar-Galú
and later in the town of Sulaymanyah.
19 The person who discovered His whereabouts and begged Him to come
back was Shaykh Sultán, the father-in-law of Bahá’u’lláh’s faithful
younger brother Mírzá Músá, Áqáy-i-Kalím (1818c.-1887).
20 Yá’júj and Má’júj of the Qur’án (18:83-98; 21:96) correspond to the
biblical Gog and Magog (Ezekiel 38:2-3; Reveletion 20:7-8). In the Qur’án
they are described as tribes of wild and destructive nature. In the Trad-
itions they are mentioned as a sign of the Day of Judgment, when they will
destroy the civilizations of the world (Bukhari 4.55.565-7, 4.56.797; Muslim
41.6881, 41.6883, 41.6885, 41.6931, 41.6932, 41.7015, 41.7016).
21 Shimr, or Shamir, ibn Dhu’l-Jawshan (d.686) was the general of the army
of the second Umayyad Caliph Yazíd I (645-683) that slew the Imám
Óusayn at Karbilá on 10 October 680, cut off his head, raised it on a
spear’s point and brought it to Damascus to the Caliph. A prototype
of cruelty and brutality, he is represented in the passion plays as
dressed in chain-armor.
22 Cf. “Hence there was a second blast on the Trumpet, whereupon the
Tongue of Grandeur uttered these blessed words: ‘We have sounded the
Trumpet for the second time.’ Thus the whole world was quickened
through the vitalizing breaths of divine revelation and inspiration”
(Bahá’u’lláh, “Ishráqát” 131).
23 Qtd. in Elisabetta Povoledo, “The politics of Nutella,” International
Herald Tribune, Friday, 10 December 2004.
24 Cf. Bausani, “Some Aspects of the Bahá’í Expressive Style” 36-43, Saggi
147-62 and Buck, Symbol and Secret.

Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam)1
Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh
A provisional translation
He is sorrowful in My sorrow
1. O Maryam! The wrongs which I suffer have blotted out
the wrongs suffered by My First Name (the Báb) from the
Tablet of creation2 and the showers of affliction rained
at all times upon this veilless Beauty from the clouds of
God’s decree.
2. My expulsion from My country was for no other reason
except My love for the Beloved, and my removal from My
land was for no other motive but My willing submission
to the Goal of all desire (ri∂áy-i-maqßúd).
3. In the summons of God’s decree I was even as a kindled
and shining lamp and in the time of heavenly trials I was
as steadfast (thábit)3 as a mountain.
4. In the revelations of grace I was even as a raining cloud
and in restraining the enemies of the King of Oneness like
a blazing fire.
5. The tokens of My might have become a cause of the envy
of My enemies and the effulgences of My wisdom have
turned into instruments of the perfidy of the malicious.
6. There was not a night during which I rested in a safe
place, not a morning in which I lifted My head from My
couch with ease.
7. I swear by the Beauty of God! Óusayn wept for the
wrongs I have suffered and the Friend (Abraham) cast
himself into the fire for My grief.
8. Were thou to examine carefully the matter, the eyes of
might are weeping behind the Tabernacle of sinlessness and

Tablet to Maryam: Translation
the people of glory are moaning in the precincts of loftiness.
Unto this beareth witness the Tongue of truth and glory.
9. O Maryam! From the land of ˇá (Teheran), after countless
afflictions, We reached ‘Iráq at the bidding of the Tyrant
of Persia, where, after the fetters of Our foes, We were
afflicted with the perfidy of Our friends. God knoweth
what befell Me thereafter!4
10. At length I gave up My home and all therein, and
renounced life and all that appertaineth unto it, and
alone and friendless, chose to go into retirement.5
11. I roamed the wilderness of resignation, travelling in such
wise that in My exile every eye wept sore over Me, and all
created things shed tears of blood because of My
anguish. The birds of the air were My companions and
the beasts of the field My associates. 6
12. I passed beyond this fleeting world even as the flash of the
spirit, and for two years or rather less I shunned all
beside God, and closed Mine eyes to all except Him, that
haply the fire of hatred may die down and the heat of
jealousy abate.7
13. O Maryam! The celestial mysteries should not be
unraveled and it is not pleasing that the heavenly secrets
be divulged, that is the mysteries of the inner treasures of
My Soul, this I mean, and nothing else.
14. By the righteousness of God! I have borne what neither
the oceans, nor the waves, nor the fruits, nor any created
thing whether of the past or of the future, hath borne or
will be capable of bearing.8
15. In that period of My exile none of My brothers or any
other inquired about this Cause, or sought to understand
it, although this Cause is greater than the creation of the
earth and of the heavens.
16. I swear by God! One moment of My journey excelleth a
service in both worlds (‘ibádati’l-thaqalayn, cf. “Tablet of
A˙mad,” in Bahá’í Prayers 212), because that retirement was

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
the mightiest testimony and the most perfect and
conclusive evidence.9
17. Yea, a man of insight (ßá˙ib-i-baßar) is needed to behold the
Most Great Beauty (manΩar-i-akbar, cf. “Tablet of A˙mad” π 2)
and whosoever has no inner eye (baßar) is deprived of
perceiving the grace of his own beauty, how much more
of the Sacred and Divine Beauty.
18. What does the shadow understand of the One Who casteth
it? And what a handful of clay comprehend of a subtle heart?
19. At length God’s decree (qa∂áy-i-iláhí) reminded some of His
spiritual servants of this Canaanite Youth, and with a
handful of writings they began to make enquiry in all
places and with all persons until they discovered a trace
of that Traceless One in a mountain cave. Verily he
guideth all things into a straight path (cf. Qur’án 2:142, 213).10
20. I swear by the Sun of Eternal Truth! This poor and
forsaken One was so astonished and amazed by the
presence of the newcomers, that this Pen is powerless to
describe it, unless another sharp Pen (qalam-i-˙adíd) steps
forth from behind the Immortal Realm, and rends
asunder the veils, and expounds its secrets with absolute
sincerity and with the truth of certitude, and with a
suitable language sets to explaining, and takes the
celestial pearls out of the shell of silence. Nor is that for
God any great matter (cf. Qur’án 14:20).
21. In brief, the seal of mystery was broken by the hand of
the Unconstrained. Otherwise, none could understand
but the men of understanding and the detached.
22. Then, the Day-Star of the World returned to ‘Iráq. We
found no more than a handful of souls, faint and
dispirited, nay utterly lost and dead. The Cause of God
had ceased to be on any one’s lips, nor was any heart
receptive to its message.11
23. Therefore
this
evanescent
Servant
arose
for
the
protection and the exaltation of the Cause of God, in
such wise that one would say that a new Resurrection
(qiyámat mujaddadan) had come to pass, and the greatness of

Tablet to Maryam: Translation
the Cause was manifested in every city, and witnessed in
every land, so that all the authorities showed courtesy
and good manners.
24. O Maryam! That this Servant has arisen to face enemies
of all sects and tribes kindled the envy of the foes, in a
manner which no one can describe or imagine. Thus hath
it been decreed by One Who is the Glorious, the Almighty.
25. O Maryam! The Pen of the Ancient of Days says that
purifying the heart from everything but God is among the
most important matters. Therefore, sanctify thy heart
from all but the Friend, so that thou mayest be worthy of
the Realm of eternal reunion (bisá†-i-uns, cf. Kitáb-i-Musta†áb
197, Kitáb-i-ˆqán 255).
26. O Maryam! Move from the constraints of imitation
towards the immensity of the heavens (fa∂áy-i-khush, cf.
GWB 327, CLII, 6) of detachment. Cleanse thine heart from
the world and all that is therein, so that thou mayest
attain unto the King of faith and mayest not be debarred
from the Sanctuary of the Merciful. Tear asunder the veil
of fancy through the power of sublime renunciation
(inqitá,’ cf. KI 77) and enter into the holy seat of certitude.
27. O Maryam! A tree has a hundred thousand leaves and
fruits, but they are all destroyed and wiped out by a
breath of the autumnal and winter winds. Therefore do
not distract thy gaze from the Root of the Divine Tree
and from the Branch of the Tree of divine glory.
28. Look how the sea is calm and peaceful in its bed in
majestic dignity and composure. But by reason of the
gales of the Will of the Eternal Beloved, unnumbered
forms and shapes become visible on its surface and all
these billows seem contrary and adverse. And thus all
people busy themselves with the waves and are shut out as
by a veil from the might of the Sea of Seas, from whose
movement the signs of the Unconstrained become manifest.
29. O Maryam! Be a companion of the Self of the Merciful
(nafs-i-ra˙mán) and from the association with and
resemblance to Satan enter beneath the shelter of the
sanctity of the Bountiful, that perchance the hand of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Divine grace may draw thee away from the paths of
passion unto the heavens of everlasting might and glory.
30. O Maryam! Return from the fleeting shadows unto the
Day Star of unfading glory. The existence of all shadows
endures or moves away by reason of the existence of the
sun. Should the sun withhold its grace for but a moment,
everything would end in the pavilion of nothingness. O
the pity and the regret that people should busy themselves
with perishing appearances and be deprived of the
Dayspring of eternal holiness.
31. O Maryam! Appreciate the value of these days, for soon
thou wilt not see the celestial Youth in the pavilion of the
created world and thou wilt behold the signs of
despondency in every thing. Soon ye will bite your
fingers’ ends (cf. Qur’án 3:115; KI 77) in your regret and will
not find the Youth, were ye to search the uttermost
corners of the heaven and the earth. This is what hath
descended from the Kingdom of supernal glory. Yea,
soon thou wilt see the people biting their fingers’ ends in
their longing for this Youth, and wilt witness see how all
of them will search after Him throughout the heavens and
the earth and will not attain unto His presence.
32. Thus, the matter came to such a pass that this Servant
decided to come forth among the people of sedition (bayn-
i-yá’júj, literally among the people of Gog), separated from all
else except a few women that had to stay with Him. And I
brought none along with Me, not even the maids of My
Consort, dependent on what God may desire.
33. This Youth departed in such a state that My succor were the
drops of My tears, My confidants the sighs of My heart,
and My friend My pen, and My companion My Beauty,
and my army My reliance, and my people (hizb) My trust.
34. This is what I set forth unto you of the secrets of the
Cause, so that thou mayest be of them who understand.
35. O Maryam! All the seas of the world and the rivers gushing
therefrom flow forth from the eyes of this Youth, which
have taken the semblance of a cloud and weep for their
oppression.

Tablet to Maryam: Translation
36. In short, We offered this head and this soul in the path of
the Friend for all eternity and whatever may happen We
are pleased and thankful.
37. This head at one time was raised on a spear-point, at
another was delivered into the hands of Shimr, again I
was cast into fire, and again I was suspended. And this is
what the infidels have wrought against Us.
38. And thus, O Maryam, We have marked this Tablet with a
wondrous lamentation and a vernal weeping, and have
dispatched it to thee, so that thou mayest moan with ease
and share the grief of the Ancient Beauty.
39. Besides, inasmuch as his eminence Jináb-i-Bábá was
present in the first year and is acquainted with certain
facts, may God grant that the Holy Spirit bestow
sincerity and certitude to his tongue and thou mayest be
informed of a drop of the story of this Youth. We
remember Óusní Khánum and Íughrá Khánum.

NOTES
1 Ishráq-Khávarí, Risáliy-i-Ayyám-i-Tis’ih 366-71; cf. Ra˙íq-i Makhtúm
2:430-435.
2 From “O Maryam…” to “…Tablet of creation,” GPB 118, VII, 31.
3 Ishráq-Khávarí, Risáliy-i-Ayyám-i-Tis ‘ih 367 gives nábit literally
“growing, germinating” (Steingass 1366). It should be a typo for thábit.
Cf. Ishráq-Khávarí (ed.), Má’idiy-i-Ásmání 4:330.
4 From “O Maryam…” to “…befell Me thereafter,” GPB 118, VII, 31.
5 From “At length…” to “…into retirement,” translated by Balyuzi, cf. King
of Glory 117.
6 From “I roamed…” to “…My associates,” GPB 120, VII, 35.
7 From “I passed beyond…” to”…flash of the spirit,” cf. Browne’s
translation in Materials 5; from “for two years …” to “…of jealousy
abate,” translated by Shoghi Effendi, cf. God Passes By 119, VII, 31.
8 Translated by Balyuzi, cf. King of Glory 117, cf. GPB 118, VII, 31.
9 “the mightiest testimony and the most perfect and conclusive evidence,”
translated by Shoghi Effendi, cf. God Passes By 124, VII, 42.
10 From “At length…” to “…straight path,” cf. Browne’s translation in
Materials 5.
11 From “We found no more than…” to “…receptive to its message,” GPB
125, VII, 44; Kitáb-i-Qarn-i-Badí’ (God Passes By) 262.

The Emergence of World Civilization
An Exposition on Excerpts from the Writings
of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Introduction
The purpose of this paper is to extract the essence of Shoghi
Effendi’s ideas presented in that chapter of his seminal work —
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh — entitled “The Unfoldment of
World Civilization.” The book deals with the far and
immediate future of global civilization that is particularly
pertinent for the twenty first century and it is the last chapter
that is so rich in possibilities. If ever a literary work were to be
identified as a monument to its author this one would
certainly suffice for the Beloved Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith,
Shoghi Effendi.
In setting the stage for the study of a future Bahá’í
civilization, the Guardian first drew out the contrast in the
rise of the Administrative Order of the Faith of God and the
disintegration of society as evidenced during the Great
Depression of the 1930s. But it was not the Depression alone
nor the events leading up to it before the crash of 1929 that
caused the disintegration noted by Shoghi Effendi. They were
rather symptomatic of much deeper cumulative breakdowns of
social institutions harking back to the first warnings by
Bahá’u’lláh in the previous century. The Guardian pointed out
the mysterious manner in which the signs were heralding the
birth of that World Order that would signalize the Golden Age
of the Cause of God. He added that all fair-minded observers
could not fail to discern them nor should one be misled by the
slowness of the unfoldment of the civilization that the
followers of Bahá’u’lláh were laboring to establish. And one

Emergence of World Civilization

should not be deluded by the apparent well being resulting
exclusively in material gain. He then referred to a well known
quote by Bahá’u’lláh: “Soon, will the present day Order be rolled
up, and a new one spread out in its stead… The world’s
equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of
this Most Great, this new World Order.” [WOB 161-162]
One of the fundamental principles of The New World Order
espoused by Bahá’u’lláh involves the unification of the entire
human race. He was quoted in reference to the Lesser Peace
(political peace) with warnings to the rulers of the world after
they refused “The Most Great Peace” as embodied in the
famous letters to the kings and religious leaders of the world:
Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need no
more armaments save in a measure to safeguard your
territories and dominions… Be united, O kings of the
earth, for thereby will the tempest of discord be stilled
amongst you, and your peoples find rest, if ye be of
them that comprehend. Should any one among you take
up arms against another, rise ye all against him, for
this is naught but manifest justice. [GWB 253]
The Most Great Peace based on the divinely appointed
ordinances that are implicit in the World Order that stands
associated with the Holy Name of Bahá’u’lláh was brought into
focus. The Guardian asserted “the spiritualization of the world
and the fusion of all its races, creeds, classes and nations — can
rest on no other basis, and can be preserved through no other
agency…” [WOB 162] And from Bahá’u’lláh: “It beseemeth all men
in this Day to take firm hold on the Most Great Name, and to
establish the unity of all mankind. There is no place to flee to,
no refuge that any one can seek, except Him.” [GWB 202]
Humanity’s Coming of Age
Shoghi Effendi inferred that the advent of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh should be regarded as signalizing the coming of age
of the human race. That its mission is the “organic and
spiritual unity of the whole body of nations.” That it should
not be viewed as just another spiritual revival, or only a further
stage in progressive Revelation. It should be viewed as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
“marking the last and highest stage in the stupendous evolution
of man’s collective life on this planet.” He took this startling
concept a step further:
The
emergence
of
a
world
community,
the
consciousness of world citizenship, the founding of a
world civilization and culture — all of which must
synchronize with the initial stages in the unfoldment of
the Golden Age of the Bahá’í Era — should, by their very
nature, be regarded, as far as this planetary life is
concerned,
as
the
furthermost
limits
in
the
organization of human society, though man, as an
individual, will, nay must indeed as a result of such a
consummation, continue indefinitely to progress and
develop. [WOB 162]
The Guardian then compared “That mystic, all-pervasive, yet
indefinable change, which we associate with the stage of
maturity inevitable in the life of the individual…” to a similar
stage that “must sooner or later be attained in the collective life
of mankind, producing an even more striking phenomenon in
world relations, and endowing the whole human race with such
potentialities of well-being as shall provide, throughout the
succeeding ages, the chief incentive required for the eventual
fulfillment of its high destiny.” [WOB 164]
The Process of Integration
This period in which we live was “likened to the culminating
stage in the political evolution of the great American Republic  
the stage which marked the emergence of a unified community
of federated states….” Reference was made to the stirring of a
new national consciousness coupled with the birth of an
infinitely richer civilization than its component parts could
separately achieve. This may be viewed as the coming of age of the
American people. Similarly, the stage at which mankind has now
arrived is ripe for the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh which “has been
endowed with such potentialities as are commensurate with the
maturity of the human race — the crowning and most momen-
tous stage in its evolution from infancy to manhood.” [WOB 166]
It was explained that the founders of past Religions have
shed the splendors of one common Revelation at various stages

Emergence of World Civilization

that marked the advance of mankind toward maturity. As
such, they may be regarded as preliminary Manifestations
paving the way for that Day when the whole world will have
born its destined fruit. However, the underlying expressions of
Bahá’u’lláh that established absolute oneness of all the Prophets
should never be obscured. The Guardian further stated:
Any variations in the splendor which each of these
Manifestations of the Light of God has shed upon the
world should be ascribed not to any inherent
superiority involved in the essential character of any
one of them, but rather to the progressive capacity, the
ever-increasing spiritual receptiveness, which mankind,
in its progress towards maturity, has invariably
manifested. [WOB 166]
The Final Consummation
The progression of mankind current in this day was
characterized, as a “stupendous evolution in the collective life
of the whole human race” and that those who associate this
with the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh are the only ones who can
grasp the significance of His words.
This Day, however, is unique, and is to be
distinguished from those that have preceded it. The
designation ‘Seal of the Prophets’ fully revealeth its high
station. The Prophetic Cycle hath verily ended. The
Eternal Truth is now come. He hath lifted up the ensign
of power, and is now shedding upon the world the
unclouded splendor of His Revelation. In this most
mighty Revelation, all the Dispensations of the past
have attained their highest, their final consummation.
That which hath been made manifest in this
preeminent, this most exalted Revelation, standeth
unparalleled in the annals of the past, nor will future
ages witness its like. [WOB 167]
The following confirmative words reiterated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
pronouncement were quoted: “Centuries,” He affirms in one of
His Tablets, “nay, countless ages, must pass away ere the Day-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Star of Truth shineth again in its mid-summer splendor, or ap-
peareth once more in the radiance of its vernal glory….” [WOB 167]
Pangs of Death and Birth
Up to this point the Guardian has set the stage for a deeper
understanding of what bodes for the future in the life of
humankind. Beginning fifteen short years after the passing of
his beloved grandfather ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi brought
to bear, the culmination of spiritually disintegrating
conditions of the world in the nineteen thirties. Concurrently
he reflected upon the startling fulfillment of prophetic
utterances of Bahá’u’lláh and His son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá with
expectations of much more to follow especially regarding the
Administrative Order of Bahá’u’lláh and the Golden Age of the
Most Great Peace. He explained that the World Order that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh fosters was yet to be born, that the
creative energies released by the Heroic Age of the Faith were
not yet crystallized into a world society that would mirror
forth the brightness of His glory. Although the framework of
His Administrative Order was erected, and the Formative Age
had begun, the promised Kingdom remained “uninaugurated.”
Reference was made to “the generation of the half-light”
destined to endure the dark forces that would spawn a flood of
agonizing afflictions before the dawn of the Golden Age of the
Faith. The ensuing seven decades since the writing of these
letters have certainly confirmed those dire warnings, and there
is yet more to come before this travailing age “can yield its
fairest fruit.” He referred to that time as an incubation period
for the World Commonwealth envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh. He
further said “We stand on the threshold of an age whose
convulsions proclaim alike the death-pangs of the old order and
the birth-pangs of the new.” [WOB 169]
Universal Fermentation
The Guardian summarized the reality of a process that the
bulk of mankind was apparently not fully aware that he called
Universal Fermentation. This was defined as a worldwide
phenomenon that continues to this day involving religious,
social, economic and political evidences in anticipation of the

Emergence of World Civilization

Day when unity of the human race will be established. He
further asserted that we were in a twofold process, each of
which would “bring to a climax the forces that were
transforming the face of our planet. The first was and is
essentially an integrating process, while the second was and is
fundamentally disruptive.” One is an unfolding System that
will serve as a pattern for a future world polity toward which a
disordered world is advancing. The other is a disintegrating
influence that tends to tear down the antiquated barriers that
seek to block humanity’s progress towards its destined goal.
A titanic, a spiritual struggle, unparalleled in its
magnitude yet unspeakably glorious in its ultimate
consequences, is being waged as a result of these
opposing tendencies, in this age of transition through
which the organized community of the followers of
Bahá’u’lláh and mankind as a whole are passing. [WOB 170]
The Guardian explained that the constructive process was
associated with the nascent Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, that it was the
harbinger of a New World Order whereas the destructive forces
were characterized by a civilization that was falling into chaos
and decline.
This Age of Transition
Our focus was then drawn to the outstanding events that
were transpiring in that formative period referred to as “this
Age of Transition” and the tendencies that characterized it. Its
tribulations were the precursors of “that Era of blissful
felicity” which would “incarnate God’s ultimate purpose for all
mankind.” It was inferred that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing in 1921
ushered in its opening phase.
Shoghi Effendi identified two momentous events that just
preceded this opening phase in which we are still living. They
were precipitated by World War I with the fall of the German
Empire
and
the
extinction
of
the
Austro-Hungarian
Monarchy. The war “signalized the opening of the Age of
Frustration destined to precede the establishment of the World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh.” At the time of this writing over seventy
years ago, the Guardian referred to these events as being “the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
earliest occurrences of that turbulent Age, into the outer
fringes of whose darkest phase we are now beginning to enter.”
[WOB 170] The twentieth century has certainly confirmed the
truth of these remarks.
Germany had previously conquered Napoleon III and reveled
in glory that would be short lived even after the warnings by
Bahá’u’lláh: “O King of Berlin!… Take heed lest pride debar thee
from recognizing the Day-Spring of Divine Revelation, lest
earthly desires shut thee out, as by a veil, from the Lord of the
Throne above and of the earth below. Thus counseleth thee the
Pen of the Most High….” [KA 51] And again: “O banks of the
Rhine! We have seen you covered with gore, inasmuch as the
swords of retribution were drawn against you; and so you shall
have another turn. And We hear the lamentations of Berlin,
though she be today in conspicuous glory.” [KA 53]
Germany was utterly vanquished only to rise again and
plunge Europe into that darkest phase of a turbulent age
spoken of by Shoghi Effendi, a phase of unparalleled horror
that reached its zenith in World War II.
Collapse of Islám
Within the context of sweeping changes in the politico-
religious life of man in the early twentieth century there was a
central theme of profound import regarding the long standing
world of Islam and its collapse. The Guardian first pointed out
how the power of the Shí’ih hierarchy crumbled in the wake of
Muslim fanaticism after centuries of impregnable power.
Secularization eroded the very foundation of Islámic
orthodoxy. And Shí’ih Islam in particular paid the price for its
intense hostility toward the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. It “had been
degraded and demoralized, and was being condemned to
hopeless obscurity and ultimate extinction.” Bahá’u’lláh
encapsulated the process:
Behold, O Mu˙ammad, how the sayings and doings of
the followers of Shí’ih Islám have dulled the joy and
fervor of its early days, and tarnished the pristine
brilliancy of its light. In its primitive days, whilst they
still adhered to the precepts associated with the name
of their Prophet, the Lord of mankind, their career was

Emergence of World Civilization

marked by an unbroken chain of victories and
triumphs. As they gradually strayed from the path of
their Ideal Leader and Master, as they turned away
from the light of God and corrupted the principle of
His Divine unity, and as they increasingly centered
their attention upon them who were only the revealers
of the potency of His Word, their power was turned
into weakness, their glory into shame, their courage
into fear. Thou dost witness to what a pass they have
come. [GWB 69]
With the downfall of the Qájár Dynasty and its unrelenting
harassment of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh there followed the
humiliation of the Shí’ih ecclesiastical leaders. The atrocious
acts perpetrated on the Bábís, the martyrdom of the Báb, the
banishment of Bahá’u’lláh to the most desolate of cities and the
numerous cruel sentences passed on to His innocent followers
“stand out as among the blackest acts for which posterity will
hold this blood-stained dynasty responsible” declared Shoghi
Effendi. “One more barrier that had sought to obstruct the
forward march of the Faith was now removed.” [WOB 173]
Bahá’u’lláh had been exiled from the land of His birth and
through it all bore the brunt of increasing calamities placed on
Him and the followers of the Báb when placed under the
jurisdiction of the Sultán of Turkey.
The orders which these foes issued, the banishments
they decreed, the indignities they inflicted, the plans
they devised, the investigations they conducted, the
threats they pronounced, the atrocities they were
prepared to commit, the intrigues and baseness to
which they, their ministers, their governors, and
military chieftains had stooped, constitute a record
which can hardly find a parallel in the history of any
revealed religion. The mere recital of the most salient
features of that sinister theme would suffice to fill a
volume. [WOB 174]
The Bábí Cause of which Bahá’u’lláh was its leading
proponent triumphed in spite of the endless persecution by the
Iranian leaders both secular and religious. Add the cruel

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
machinations of the arrogant Turkish despot ‘Abdu’l-`Azíz and
the seditious actions of Bahá’u’lláh’s own kindred and one can
only marvel that the survival of the Cause is “one of the most
intriguing and mysterious episodes of contemporary history.”
Through it all, the eroding, insidious forces of decay resulted
in catastrophic convulsions within the Ottoman Empire
culminating with the murder of the Turkish Sultán in 1876.
Precipitating the overthrow of his successor, ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd II
in 1909 were the Russo-Turkish conflict, wars of liberation and
the Young Turk movement in 1908 that liberated political and
religious prisoners. For the first time since the tender age of
eight and a half years, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá breathed freedom.
With startling swiftness these events were followed with the
calamitous Balkin wars and the liberation of Palestine
including ‘Akká and Haifa. Further dismemberment was
decreed by the Treaty of Versailles and the Sultanate was
abolished. The House of Uthman fell and the Caliphate was
extinguished. The State Religion ceased to be and the Sharí’ah
Law was annulled. About this, with respect to the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh, the Guardian stated:
The overthrow of the Sultanate and the Caliphate, the
twin pillars of Sunní Islam, can be regarded in no other
light except as the inevitable consequence of the fierce,
the sustained and deliberate persecution which the
monarchs of the tottering House of ‘Uthman, the
recognized successors of the Prophet Mu˙ammad, had
launched against it. [WOB 173]
Shoghi Effendi compared the evidence of divine visitation
that fell on the persecutors of Jesus Christ with those of
Bahá’u’lláh during the first century of their respective
dispensations. The Roman Emperor besieged Jerusalem and
destroyed the rebuilt temple. He desecrated the Holy of Holies
and removed its treasures to Rome. He further delivered the
penultimate insult by establishing a pagan colony on mount
Zion after massacring the Jews and dispersing the survivors.
Christ had warned:
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and
stonest them that are sent unto thee; how often would I
have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth

Emergence of World Civilization

gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not!…
(Luke 13:34) And when He was come near, he beheld the
city, and wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known,
even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which
belong unto thy peace! But now they are hid from thine
eyes. For the days shall come upon thee, that thine
enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass
thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay
thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee;
and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another;
because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.
(Luke 19:41-44)
In a similar context, Bahá’u’lláh was quoted regarding
Constantinople:
O Spot that art situate on the shores of the two seas!
The throne of tyranny hath, verily, been established
upon thee, and the flame of hatred hath been kindled
within thy bosom, in such wise that the Concourse on
high and they who circle around the Exalted Throne
have wailed and lamented. We behold in thee the foolish
ruling over the wise, and darkness vaunting itself
against the light. Thou art indeed filled with manifest
pride. Hath thine outward splendor made thee vain-
glorious? By Him Who is the Lord of mankind! It shall
soon perish, and thy daughters and thy widows and all
the kindreds that dwell within thee shall lament. Thus
informeth thee the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. [KA 52-53]
It was to the cruel Sultan ‘Abdu’l-`Azíz that Bahá’u’lláh
wrote one of His famous letters to the leaders of the world. In
it He admonished the brutal monarch, in clear and certain
terms that he should set before him God’s unerring balance and
to weigh his actions every day and every moment. He warned:
“Bring thyself to account ere thou art summoned to a
reckoning, on the day when no man shall have strength to stand
for fear of God, the day when the hearts of the heedless ones
shall be made to tremble.” [GWB 235] To the ministers of the
Turkish State He commanded “to keep the precepts of God, and
to forsake your own laws and regulations, and to be of them

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
who are guided aright… Ye shall, erelong, discover the
consequences of that which ye shall have done in this vain life,
and shall be repaid for them.” [GWB 122-123] Bahá’u’lláh
compared them to the many leaders of earlier ages who, while
superior in rank, had committed the same things they were
committing only to be consigned to inevitable doom. To the
inhabitants of Constantinople He warned “God assuredly
dominateth the lives of them that wronged Us, and is well aware
of their doings. He will, most certainly, lay hold on them for
their sins….” [GWB 129]
Thirteen hundred years would elapse after the passing of
Mu˙ammad before the illegitimacy of the Caliphate would be
publicly demonstrated. The Guardian quoted an astonishing
Muslim tradition that corroborated the theme of the fall of Islam:
In the latter days a grievous calamity shall befall My
people at the hands of their ruler, a calamity such as no
man ever heard to surpass it. So fierce will it be that
none can find a shelter. God will then send down One
of My descendants, One sprung from My family, Who
will fill the earth with equity and justice, even as it hath
been filled with injustice and tyranny… A day shall be
witnessed by My people whereon there will have
remained of Islam naught but a name, and of the
Qur’án naught but a mere appearance. The doctors of
that age shall be the most evil the world hath ever seen.
Mischief hath proceeded from them, and on them will
it recoil… At that hour His malediction shall descend
upon you, and your curse shall afflict you, and your
religion shall remain an empty word on your tongues.
And when these signs appear amongst you, anticipate
the day when the red-hot wind will have swept over you,
or the day when ye will have been disfigured, or when
stones will have rained upon you. [WOB 179]
Bahá’u’lláh addressed the people of the Qur’án and affirmed:
“O concourse of Muslim divines! By your deeds the exalted
station of the people hath been abased, the standard of Islam
hath been reversed, and its mighty throne hath fallen.” [WOB 179]

Emergence of World Civilization

Deterioration of Christian Institutions
Shoghi Effendi put the question: Could the deterioration
that attacked the fabric of the Religion of Mu˙ammad exert its
baneful influence on the institutions associated with the Faith
of Jesus Christ? He maintained that no unbiased observer
could fail to admit that the forces of irreligion and of a purely
materialistic philosophy were spreading and were beginning to
invade some of the most powerful Christian institutions of the
western world. He affirmed that some of these institutions
were already aware of the pervasive influence of the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh. He inferred that they would regard with deepening
dismay the rise of His New World Order, as their inherent
strength would increasingly deteriorate. He noted Bahá’u’lláh’s
comment made a half-century earlier:
The vitality of men’s belief in God is dying out in every
land; nothing short of His wholesome medicine can
ever restore it. The corrosion of ungodliness is eating
into the vitals of human society; what else but the
Elixir of His potent Revelation can cleanse and revive
it? [GWB 199]
Secularism, the menace that attacked Islam and every other
established religion had laid hold on the communities of
Christianity to such a degree that the Guardian considered the
time in which we were moving as one of the most critical in the
history
of
Christianity.
Many
Christian
missionaries
proclaimed: “A wave of materialism is sweeping round the
world.” Their reports reflected “the drive and pressure of
modern industrialism, which are penetrating even the forests of
Central Africa and the plains of Central Asia, make men
everywhere dependent on, and preoccupied with, material
things.” [WOB 181] All this was compounded by the rise of
communism characterized as ‘religious irreligion’ that had its
own passionate sense of mission. Though the Soviet Union
collapsed a half-century later, there still remains to this day one
fifth of the world under the communist yoke of atheism. It was
further stated that this form of attack was something new in
history with respect to religion in general. And equally hostile
to
Christianity
was
nationalism,
especially
militant

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
nationalism. Yet unlike communism, nationalism is often
bound up with one religion or another. On the other hand, the
policies following World War I exerted a pernicious effect on
the institutions and beliefs connected with Christianity, one
of the most widely spread and best-organized religious systems
of the world. Intolerant and militant nationalism attributed to
the philosophy of Georg Friedrich Hegel deified the state,
inculcated a war-spirit and incited racial animosity according
to Shoghi Effendi. It also marked a weakening of the Church
and diminished its spiritual influence:
It was being stabbed by an alien and militant atheism
from without, and by the preachers of a heretical
doctrine from within. Both of these forces, each
operating in its own sphere and using its own weapons
and methods, have moreover been greatly assisted and
encouraged by the prevailing spirit of modernism, with
its emphasis on a purely materialistic philosophy,
which, as it diffuses itself, tends increasingly to
divorce religion from man’s daily life. [WOB 183]
The Guardian characterized the clash between these
contending interests as disastrous and irreparably damaging.
Examples were listed including the dismemberment of the Greek
Orthodox Church in Russia and the blow sustained by the
Church of Rome after the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian
Monarchy. Also included was the separation of Church and
state in Spain and the persecution the Catholic Church in
Mexico. Listed too were the terrorization of Catholics and
Lutherans in the heart of Europe and the turmoil experienced
by the Church in Africa resulting from military campaigns. The
decline in the fortunes of Christian Missions in Persia, Turkey
and the Far East also exemplified reverses experienced by
Christian ecclesiastical institutions in almost every part of the
world. At this juncture, Shoghi Effendi posed an interesting
question with an observation:
Might not this disintegrating tendency, from which
Sunní and Shí’ih Islam have so conspicuously suffered,
unloose, as it reaches its climax, still further calamities
upon the various denominations of the Christian
Church? In what manner and how rapidly this process,

Emergence of World Civilization

which has already set in, will develop the future alone
can reveal. Nor can it, at the present time, be estimated
to what extent will the attacks which a still powerful
clergy may yet launch against the strongholds of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the West accentuate this decline
and widen the range of inescapable disasters. [WOB 184]
He then quoted a surprising prophetic statement by a
Protestant minister of the times:
If Christianity wishes and expects to serve the world in
the present crisis… it must cut back through
Christianity to Christ, back through the centuries-old
religion about Jesus to the original religion of Jesus.
Otherwise, the spirit of Christ will live in institutions
other than our own. [WOB 184]
An interesting parallel was drawn between the events in the
early Christian centuries and the first century of the Bahá’í
Era. The dominant religion of the Roman people was pagan but
it was confronted by evasive philosophies and popular cults.
They
were
surrounded
by
Neo-Platonists,
Gnostic
philosophers, Philonism, Mithraism and a myriad of sects,
which perverted the state religion. These and paganism were
swept away by the new Christian Faith. In the modern era,
beginning with the first century of the Bahá’í Faith, most
Christian Institutions were faced with conditions similar to
those facing Roman state religion in the first centuries of the
Common Era, namely conflicting beliefs and practices.
Ironically, this condition was augmented by the bankruptcy of
that same Faith that had conquered paganism in an earlier time.
To all this, Shoghi Effendi made a timely promise:
Such institutions as have strayed far from the spirit
and teachings of Jesus Christ must of necessity, as the
embryonic World Order of Bahá’u’lláh takes shape and
unfolds, recede into the background, and make way for
the progress of the divinely-ordained institutions that stand
inextricably interwoven with His teachings. [WOB 185]
He inferred that the indwelling Spirit of God which animated
the members of the early Church would be reborn in light of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
redefinition of its fundamental verities and the clarification of
its original purpose. But he made a defining statement about
the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh with respect to Christianity. He said
that there could be no variance with the animating purpose or
authority invested in the Faith of Jesus Christ and concluded
with the following unequivocal words of Bahá’u’lláh.
We testify that when He came into the world, He shed
the splendor of His glory upon all created things.
Through Him the leper recovered from the leprosy of
perversity and ignorance. Through Him the unchaste
and wayward were healed. Through His power, born of
Almighty God, the eyes of the blind were opened, and
the soul of the sinner sanctified… He it is Who purified
the world. Blessed is the man who, with a face beaming
with light, hath turned towards Him. [GWB 85-86]
Signs of Moral Downfall
Shoghi Effendi distinguished moral downfall as a thing apart
from, yet intricately connected to the decline of religious
institutions. He makes reference to the life and conduct of the
individual as a counterpart to the organic whole of religious
institutions. No matter what direction one might turn in the
mid nineteen thirties, one could not fail to be struck by
prevailing moral decadence among men and women. And it was
undoubtedly the decline of religion as a social force that was
responsible for such a degrading condition in the Christian
world. The Guardian reiterated:
No wonder, therefore, that when, as a result of human
perversity, the light of religion is quenched in men’s
hearts, and the divinely appointed Robe, designed to
adorn the human temple, is deliberately discarded, a
deplorable decline in the fortunes of humanity
immediately sets in, bringing in its wake all the evils
which a wayward soul is capable of revealing. [WOB 187]
He declared that under such conditions, the degradation of
human conduct and the dissolution of human institutions
reveal themselves in their most revolting ways and that this was
the state that individuals and institutions were approaching.
Further, when the human conscience becomes stultified and the

Emergence of World Civilization

sense of decency obscured, the feelings of joy and hope are
gradually extinguished. He quoted Bahá’u’lláh’s lamenting
questions: “How long will injustice continue? How long is
chaos and confusion to reign amongst men? How long will
discord agitate the face of society?” [GWB 215]
Breakdown of Political And Economic Structure
The manner in which the moral downfall and the
degeneration of religious institutions that took place in the
first century of the Bahá’í Era was also reflected in the politico-
economic realm but remains too complex to adequately
estimate or analyze in a brief survey. Yet the potential impact
of the world wide dilemma resulting from the increasing rivalries
and ingrained hatreds in Europe and of the Great Depression
were becoming a matter of deep concern for Shoghi Effendi.
The Great Depression, the aftermath of the severest
ordeals
humanity
had
ever
experienced,
the
disintegration
of
the
Versailles
system,
the
recrudescence of militarism in its most menacing
aspects, the failure of vast experiments and new-born
institutions to safeguard the peace and tranquility of
peoples, classes and nations, have bitterly disillusioned
humanity and prostrated its spirits. [WOB 188]
The Guardian supported his argument with reference to a
few small voices that were raised by religious scholars as well as
political pundits regarding the looming alarm of worldwide
conflagration. “If war should break out again on a major scale
in Europe, it must bring the collapse of civilization as we know
it in its wake” was the warning of a prominent Minister in
Europe. Another Christian dignitary commented:
It is likely there will have to be one more great conflict in
Europe to definitely establish once and for all an inter-
national authority. This conflict will be the most horrible
of horribles, and possibly this generation will be called on
to sacrifice hundreds of thousands of lives. [WOB 189]
The League of Nations was still in its embryonic state when
the dark shadow of impending global disaster was sweeping

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
over a hapless world. Yet, Shoghi Effendi raised a glimmer of
hope of a future triumph that this institution or “any other
body that may supersede it, is destined to achieve.”
Bahá’u’lláh’s Principle of Collective Security
There were several significant landmarks in the “checkered”
history of the League. The Guardian mentioned the Treaty of
Guarantee, the proposal for a United States of Europe,
economic unification of the continent, the Geneva Protocol
and the policy of sanctions. After much deliberation, fifty
some members pronounced “their verdict against an act of
aggression which in their judgment has been deliberately
committed by one of their fellow-members, one of the foremost
Powers of Europe.” This was “an event without parallel in
history.” [WOB 191]
For the first time in the history of humanity the system
of collective security, foreshadowed by Bahá’u’lláh and
explained
by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, has
been
seriously
envisaged, discussed and tested. For the first time in
history it has been officially recognized and publicly
stated that for this system of collective security to be
effectively established strength and elasticity are both
essential…. [WOB 191-192]
Leaders of nations pronounced a movement of public
opinion supporting the verdict. In the 1870s Bahá’u’lláh had
said, “The time must come when the imperative necessity for
the holding of a vast, an all-embracing assemblage of men will
be universally realized.” [TB 165] And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, referring to
the sovereigns of the world, reiterated: “They must conclude a
binding treaty, and establish a covenant, the provisions of
which shall be sound, inviolable and definite. They must
proclaim it to all the world, and obtain for it the sanction of
all the human race…” Then He followed with a startling
characterization: “All the forces of humanity must be
mobilized to insure the stability and permanence of this Most
Great Covenant.” [WOB 191-192]
On the other hand, Shoghi Effendi observed that The League
of Nations still lacked the universality required for “the
efficacious settlement of international disputes.” In fact, the

Emergence of World Civilization

United States held it aloof while Germany and Japan
abandoned its cause. Still, “the fact must be recognized that so
important a decision marks one of the most distinctive
milestones on the long and arduous road that must lead it to
its goal, the stage at which the oneness of the whole body of
nations will be made the ruling principle of international life.”
[WOB 193] It was however, “a faint glimmer in the darkness” that
enveloped an agitated humanity. The process of disintegration
had to continue. Much suffering would occur among nations,
creeds, classes and races before they would be forged into one
organic commonwealth. We had been warned by Bahá’u’lláh:
The civilization so often vaunted by the learned
exponents of arts and sciences will, if allowed to
overlap the bounds of moderation, bring great evil
upon men… If carried to excess, civilization will prove as
prolific a source of evil as it had been of goodness when
kept within the restraints of moderation… [SDC 64]
Community of the Most Great Name
The Guardian explained that the Bahá’í community alone was
aware of the silent growth of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
They were the ones who were continuously consolidating through
their activities a world embracing polity “amidst the welter of a
tempestuous age.” It was a slow and unobtrusive building
process to which the World Bahá’í community was consecrated
and that constituted the one hope of a stricken society.
In a world with impaired political and social institutions
and whose religious systems had become anemic, this “healing
agency” was taking shape and was mobilizing its forces for the
complete redemption of mankind. For almost a century it had
succeeded in preserving its identity in spite of the incessant
persecutions to which its leaders had been subjected. Its
enemies had actually caused the Faith to purge and purify its
life instead of retarding its growth. They had utterly failed to
create a permanent schism among its ranks. Those who
seditiously violated the trust of its cause were powerless to
cloud its radiance.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Persia had been the first to repress and oppose it. Its
monarchs had miserably fallen, their dynasty had
collapsed, their name was execrated, the hierarchy that
had been their ally and had propped their declining
state, had been utterly discredited. Turkey, which had
thrice banished its Founder and inflicted on Him cruel
and life-long imprisonment, had passed through one of
the severest ordeals and far-reaching revolutions that
its history has recorded, had shrunk from one of the
most powerful empires to a tiny Asiatic republic, its
Sultanate obliterated, its dynasty overthrown, its
Caliphate,
the
mightiest
institution
of
Islam,
abolished. [WOB 196]
Concurrently, the Bahá’í Faith forged unerringly ahead, unified
and undaunted. Its followers had become so inspired that
nothing could undermine their resolution.
A World Religion
The
Faith
of
Bahá’u’lláh
had
succeeded
in
visibly
demonstrating its claim to be regarded as a World Religion
and not simply a philosophy of life or a mere sect of Shí’ih
Islam, a movement or an eclectic code of ethics. Its destiny
would in time reach the status of a world-embracing
commonwealth and would become the instrument of the Most
Great Peace. Indeed, the Faith was characterized by one of
Europe’s royalty:
It is like a wide embrace, gathering together all those
who have long searched for words of hope. It accepts
all great Prophets gone before it, destroys no other
creeds, and leaves all doors open. The Bahá’í teaching
brings peace to the soul and hope to the heart. To those
in search of assurance the words of the Father are as a
fountain in the desert after long wandering. Their
writings are a great cry toward peace, reaching beyond
all limits of frontiers, above all dissension about rites
and dogmas…. [WOB 197]
The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh had transformed the hearts of its
followers and made them lovers of mankind regardless of race,
creed or nationality. It preserved their patriotism and safe

Emergence of World Civilization

guarded their lesser loyalties. More importantly, it reaffirmed
the Divine origins of all religions and the underlying unity with
respect to the links that bind them together.
Their Faith they conceive to be essentially non-
political, supra-national in character, rigidly non-
partisan, and entirely dissociated from nationalistic
ambitions, pursuits, and purposes.” They do not
identify with political or ecclesiastic institutions but
do uphold the laws of the Faith and do live by its
principles. These are considered to be “the warp and
woof of the institutions upon which the structure of
His World Order must ultimately rest. [WOB 199]
Shoghi Effendi listed a variety of accomplishments by the
Faith in the short span of time since its inception, a few of
which follow. It had demonstrated the force of its cohesive
strength and of its integrating power in the fashioning of the
legal instruments designed to safeguard and regulate the
corporate life of its institutions. It had accumulated adequate
resources, material as well as cultural in every inhabited
continent. It was proving its virility and capacity in laying the
foundations for the gradual formation and establishment of
its educational, cultural and humanitarian institutions. It was
demonstrating extraordinary vitality with which its valiant
defenders, its elected representatives, its itinerant teachers and
pioneer administrators were pleading its cause. It was
acknowledged by the spontaneous tributes paid by royalty,
princes, statesmen and scholars to the sublimity of its cause
and the station of its Founders. It was counteracting the
disintegrating influences to which religious systems, moral
standards, and political and social institutions were being
subjected. He summarized:
From Iceland to Tasmania, from Vancouver to the
China Sea spreads the radiance and extend the ram-
ifications of this world-enfolding System, this many-
hued and firmly-knit Fraternity, infusing into every
man and woman it has won to its cause a faith, a hope,
and a vigor that a wayward generation has long lost,
and is powerless to recover. They who preside over the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
immediate destinies of this troubled world, they who are
responsible for its chaotic state, its fears, its doubts,
its miseries will do well, in their bewilderment, to fix
their gaze and ponder in their hearts upon the evidences
of this saving grace of the Almighty that lies within
their reach — a grace that can ease their burden, resolve
their perplexities, and illuminate their path. [WOB 201]
Divine Retribution
The Guardian quoted a familiar phrase of Bahá’u’lláh’s. “O
ye peoples of the world! Know, verily, that an unforeseen
calamity followeth you, and grievous retribution awaiteth you.
Think not that which ye have committed hath been effaced in
My sight.” [HW 44] And another: “We have a fixed time for you,
O peoples. If ye fail, at the appointed hour, to turn towards
God, He, verily, will lay violent hold on you, and will cause
grievous afflictions to assail you from every direction….” [GWB
213] How forbidding, how prophetic were these words! A short
three years after this letter by Shoghi Effendi, the calamitous
WW II began with horrific consequences that we are still
dealing with sixty plus years after the armistice. He then
encapsulated Bahá’u’lláh’s description of the stages in the
evolution of human civilization:
The long ages of infancy and childhood, through which
the human race had to pass, have receded into the
background. Humanity is now experiencing the com-
motions invariably associated with the most turbulent
stage of its evolution, the stage of adolescence, when
the impetuosity of youth and its vehemence reach their
climax, and must gradually be superseded by the
calmness,
the
wisdom,
and
the
maturity
that
characterize the stage of manhood. Then will the human
race reach that stature of ripeness which will enable it
to acquire all the powers and capacities upon which its
ultimate development must depend. [WOB 201]
World Unity the Goal
The penultimate goal of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is the
spiritual unification of the planet. Following that, the ultimate

Emergence of World Civilization

goal is to establish a Universal Peace supported by a World
Federation wherein the personal freedom of all individuals
would be secure and the autonomy of its state members
safeguarded. This commonwealth, envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh in
the late 1800s must consist of a world legislature that would
control the entire resources of its component nations. Its
responsibility would be to enact laws that would satisfy the
needs and adjust the relationships of all races and peoples. As
He exclaimed:
O ye children of men, the fundamental purpose
animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to
safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the
human race… He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful,
cherisheth in His heart the desire of beholding the entire
human race as one soul and one body. [WOB 202-203]
The Guardian continued with an extraordinary description
of the Golden Age of Bahá’u’lláh’s Dispensation. He listed
numerous idealized conditions that would become reality by
virtue of the Divine outpourings of the pen of Bahá’u’lláh.
Every aspect of life from the innermost heart of the soul to the
outer world embracing unity of global society will be
empowered by the agency of the Blessed Beauty. No aspect of
life on this earth will be neglected. He reminded the reader of
the prophecies of Isaiah some twenty-five centuries earlier:
And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke
many people: and they shall beat their swords into
plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks: nation
shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they
learn war any more… (Isaiah 2:4) And there shall come
forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall
grow out of his roots… And the spirit of the Lord shall
rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and under-
standing, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of
knowledge and of the fear of the Lord. (Isaiah 11:1-2)
St. John, the author of the Apocalypse, was further quoted
regarding The New Jerusalem, a term that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
described as Devine Civilization and symbolized by Bahá’u’lláh
as His Most Holy Book, the book of laws which constitute a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
charter for the New World Order “whose provisions must
remain inviolate for no less than a thousand years.” [PUP 101-102]
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first
heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there
was no more sea… And I John saw the holy city, new
Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven,
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband… And I
heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the
tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with
them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall
be with them, and be their God… And God shall wipe
away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no
more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there
be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.
(Revelation 21:1-4)
The Guardian called to mind an affirmation by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
One of the great events which is to occur in the Day of
the manifestation of that Incomparable Branch
(Bahá’u’lláh) is the hoisting of the Standard of God
among all nations. By this is meant that all nations and
kindreds will be gathered together under the shadow of
this Divine Banner, which is no other than the Lordly
Branch itself, and will become a single nation. [SAQ 55]
And finally from Bahá’u’lláh regarding the new creation,
that World Order in the Golden Age of His Dispensation:
Great is thy blessedness, O earth, for thou hast been
made the foot-stool of thy God, and been chosen as the
seat of His mighty throne. The realm of glory
exclaimeth: “Would that my life could be sacrificed for
thee, for He Who is the Beloved of the All-Merciful hath
established His sovereignty upon thee, through the
power of His Name that hath been promised unto all
things, whether of the past or of the future. [GWB 30]
Conclusion
Shoghi Effendi has masterfully identified the negative
impacts of tumultuous events in human history of the last
century and has skillfully laid out the solutions that are readily

Emergence of World Civilization

available based on the utterances of Bahá’u’lláh. The Guardian
emphasized unity of the body of mankind as the essential
mission of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation and he said that the
tribulations of the Age of Transition that we were entering
were characterized as the precursors of the era that would
incarnate God’s ultimate purpose for mankind. Further, the
collapse of Islam and the deterioration of Christian
Institutions resulting from chronic internal corruption
allowed secularism and a wave of materialism to sweep the
world. Intricately connected with this were the signs of moral
downfall and the resultant breakdown of political and
economic structure. The Great Depression added further dis-
illusionment and with the menacing aspects of a recrudescent
militarism the spirits of humanity became prostrate.
Only a Divine Physician could heal an ailing society and this
would involve Bahá’u’lláh’s Principle of Collective Security,
which would be universally realized by the holding of a vast, all-
embracing assemblage. The first steps were achieved with the
establishment of the League of Nations. Albeit embryonic, the
League produced an event unparalleled in history by
pronouncing a verdict by fifty of its members against one of
its own due to an act of aggression. But it was the Bahá’í
community alone that was aware of the silent growth of the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Indeed, the Faith had emerged as a
World Religion and reaffirmed the Divine origins of all
religions with their underlying unity.
This treatise is but a mere sketch of Shoghi Effendi’s letter
dated March 11, 1936. In it he captured the enormous vision of
Bahá’u’lláh in brilliantly descriptive language and he brought
the impact of spiritual realities on the material world into bold
relief. His baleful predictions made over seventy years ago have
become painfully true and the end is not in sight. Still, in the
context of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh there is a resplendent
light at the end of a very long tunnel. In reflecting on human
culture from the birth of its spiritual identity through the
stages of childhood and adolescence we find ourselves
abstrusely approaching a threshold of an unparalleled golden
age in the spiritual and material life of man on this planet.

Elucidations
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the
Writings of the Báb
Part 1: Memorandum from the Research
Department
Universal House of Justice
To: The Universal House of Justice
Date: 1 December 2004
From: Research Department
Tablet of the Báb; the Appointment of Azal and His
Titles
The Research Department has considered the questions
contained in the email message of 15 January 2004 from … to
the Universal House of Justice. As a context for his queries, …
appends a number of extracts from Web sites and email
communications he has had with several individuals. … appears
to be particularly interested in “the nature of the designation
of Azal” and to this end seeks information about the
authenticity of the Law˙-i-Vaßaya, which he understands is
regarded by the Azal’s as the basis for Mírzá Ya˙yá’s titles and
position. He also enquires about the meaning of a particular
verse in the Persian Bayán. We provide the following response.
Tablet of the Báb
The Tablet of the Báb, which is described as “The Báb’s
Law˙-i-Vasaya: The Will and Testament” on the Web site
www.h-net.org/bahai/areprint/Báb/S-Z/vasaya/vasaya.htm,

Elucidations: Mírzá Yahyá
referred to by …, can be found on pages 95—102 in volume 64,
published in the Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA) series.
This volume was published in B.E. 133 and contains various
Writings of the Báb. We attach for … information a
photocopy of the Tablet from that volume. It is important to
call attention to the fact that, while in some quarters this
Tablet has become known as the Will and Testament of the Báb,
the Research Department has, to date, found no explicit
evidence to suggest that the Báb, Himself, designated the Tablet
as such. Indeed, from a perusal of the attached material, … will
see that the Tablet bears no title. He will also see that, while the
Tablet is addressed to Azal, there is nothing in its contents
pertaining to questions of successorship and authority.
Rather, the recipient is enjoined to promote and protect the
Faith and to invite people to follow what has been revealed in
the Bayán. To date, no authorized English translation of the
Tablet is available.
As to the circumstances of Mírzá Ya˙yá’s nomination, it is
interesting to note that in the Bábí Dispensation, the Lesser
Covenant, that Covenant made by the Manifestation of God
with His followers to accept His appointed successor, is,
according to the Guardian, found interspersed in the Báb’s
Book of Laws, the Persian Bayán, in many passages, some of
which were “designedly obscure,” but mostly “indubitably clear
and conclusive.”1 The Báb seems to have alerted His followers
to the promised advent of Bahá’u’lláh, instead of designating
an appointed successor. Indeed, the Guardian stated:
A successor or vicegerent the Báb never named, an
interpreter of His teachings He refrained from
appointing. So transparently clear were His references
to the Promised One, so brief was to be the duration of
His own Dispensation, that neither the one nor the
other was deemed necessary. All He did was, according
to the testimony of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in “A Traveller’s
Narrative,” to nominate, on the advice of Bahá’u’lláh
and of another disciple, Mírzá Ya˙yá, who would act
solely as a figure-head pending the manifestation of the
Promised One, thus enabling Bahá’u’lláh to promote,
in relative security, the Cause so dear to His heart.
(“God Passes By,” pp. 28—29)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The following extract from a letter dated 4 August 1980,
written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an
individual believer, deals with the position of Mírzá Ya˙yá in
the Bábí community:
Concerning the position of Mírzá Ya˙yá in the Bábí
community, the Guardian has made it quite clear in
“God Passes By” that Mírzá Ya˙yá was the Báb’s
“nominee” and was the “recognized chief of the Bábí
community” following the martyrdom of the Báb. He
has also referred to him as “titular head” and “a mere
figurehead” (see “God Passes By” page 90). The position
occupied by Mírzá Ya˙yá was far different from being
an appointed Successor of a Manifestation of God in
the sense that St. Peter, the Imám ‘Alí or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
were appointed Successors with far-reaching authority.
Obviously the Báb had no need to appoint such a
Successor, for He knew that Bahá’u’lláh was already
present and ready to be revealed at the appointed time.
He seems, therefore, merely to have nominated a titular
head for the Bábí community as a focal point of unity
until such time as He Whom God will make manifest
would decide to unveil Himself.
Additional details concerning the circumstances of Mírzá
Ya˙yá’s nomination are contained in
• ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “A Traveller’s Narrative” (Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980), pp. 37—38;
• Adib Taherzadeh, “The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,”
volume I (Oxford: George Ronald, 1974), pp. 53—54;
• Adib Taherzadeh, “The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,”
volume II (Oxford: George Ronald, 1977), pp. 241—242
and 247.
Titles of Azal
As to whether Mírzá Ya˙yá’s titles were derived from Tablets
of the Báb or fabricated by Azal and his followers, in his book,
“Mustayqi,” Mírzá Ya˙yá attributes a number of divine names
and attributes to himself, one of which is “Azal.”2

Elucidations: Mírzá Yahyá
The title “Íub˙-i-Azal” appears in an Islamic tradition which
is called Óadíth-i-Kumayl (Kumayl was a devoted student of the
first Imám, ‘Alí3), and a portion of the Óadíth is quoted by the
Báb in “Dalá’il-i-Sab’ih” (Bábíyyih Publication, p. 58). Mírzá Ya˙yá
and his followers erroneously have taken this term as a reference
to Mírzá Ya˙yá.
In the book “Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution
to Bahá’í Apologetics,”4
the following footnote provides
additional information about the origin of Mírzá Ya˙yá’s
attributing to himself the title “Íub˙-i-Azal.”
Mírzá Ya˙yá Azal was evidently known also by the
name Íub˙-i-Azal. This is, at least, the title used by
Browne, and it is probably through his works that this
title was first made public. In Azalí works (such as
“Hasht Bihisht”) and works written under Azalí
influence (such as the “Kitáb-i-Nuq†atu’l-Káf” or
Gobineau’s “Les Religions”) Mírzá Ya˙yá is referred to
by the title “Óa∂rat-i-Azal,” not “Íub˙i-Azal.” The
origin or first use of the title Íub˙-i-Azal has not yet
been identified. This title of honour was evidently not
conferred on him by the Báb, who only called him
“Thamaratu’l-Azalíyya” and “‘Ismu’l-Azal” (see Mírzá
Ya˙yá, “Mustayqi,” pp. 391f.). However, the Báb did
employ the title Íub˙-i-Azal in reference to various
other leading Báb’s (see the commentary on the Óadíth of
Kumayl, Teheran Bahá’í Archives MS 6006 C., pp. 74ff.), so that
it is quite possible that Mírzá Ya˙yá was occasionally
thus designated.
Persian Bayán, passage 2:16
… requests assistance in understanding a passage from the
Persian Bayán, 2:16, which, among other things, refers to the
Mustagháth and the timing of the advent of the Promised One.
Although … specific question is not clearly stated, it would
appear that he is unsure how the meaning of the verse in the
Bayán is to be understood in light of a statement in H. M.
Balyuzi’s “E. G. Browne and the Bahá’í Faith” concerning the
Azalí view of the coming of the Promised One.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The Research Department has not, to date, been able to
locate an authoritative interpretation of the particular passage
from the Persian Bayán in the Writings. However, we attach
for … information a discussion of the prophesy in the Writings
of the Báb concerning the advent of the Promised One that is
published in “Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution to
Bahá’í Apologetics.”5
This discussion may well assist … in
furthering his understanding of some of the themes in the
passage in question.

NOTES
1 See “God Passes By” (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995), pp. 27—28.
2 A section of this book containing the divine names and attributes
appears in Rawhani Bushru’í’s “Risálih-i-Rawhání,” compiled by Vahíd
Ra’fatí (Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 2000), pp.
108—109.
3 In “The Encyclopaedia of Islám,” New Edition, ed. H. A. R. Gibb, et. al.
(Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1960), vol. I (A—B), p. 89, reference is made to
“‘Risálat al-Kumayliyya,’ on the traditional answer by `Alí to the
question of Kumayl b. Ziyád.”
4 Udo Schaefer, Nicola Towfigh and Ulrich Gollmer, “Making the Crooked
Straight: A Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics,” translated by
Geraldine Schuckelt (Oxford: George Ronald, 2000), p. 631.
5 Ibid., pp. 601—604.

Elucidations
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the
Writings of the Báb
Part 1: Memorandum from the Research
Department
Universal House of Justice
To: The Universal House of Justice
Date: 1 December 2004
From: Research Department
Tablet of the Báb; the Appointment of Azal and His
Titles
The Research Department has considered the questions
contained in the email message of 15 January 2004 from … to
the Universal House of Justice. As a context for his queries, …
appends a number of extracts from Web sites and email
communications he has had with several individuals. … appears
to be particularly interested in “the nature of the designation
of Azal” and to this end seeks information about the
authenticity of the Law˙-i-Vaßaya, which he understands is
regarded by the Azal’s as the basis for Mírzá Ya˙yá’s titles and
position. He also enquires about the meaning of a particular
verse in the Persian Bayán. We provide the following response.
Tablet of the Báb
The Tablet of the Báb, which is described as “The Báb’s
Law˙-i-Vasaya: The Will and Testament” on the Web site
www.h-net.org/bahai/areprint/Báb/S-Z/vasaya/vasaya.htm,

Elucidations: Mírzá Yahyá
referred to by …, can be found on pages 95—102 in volume 64,
published in the Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA) series.
This volume was published in B.E. 133 and contains various
Writings of the Báb. We attach for … information a
photocopy of the Tablet from that volume. It is important to
call attention to the fact that, while in some quarters this
Tablet has become known as the Will and Testament of the Báb,
the Research Department has, to date, found no explicit
evidence to suggest that the Báb, Himself, designated the Tablet
as such. Indeed, from a perusal of the attached material, … will
see that the Tablet bears no title. He will also see that, while the
Tablet is addressed to Azal, there is nothing in its contents
pertaining to questions of successorship and authority.
Rather, the recipient is enjoined to promote and protect the
Faith and to invite people to follow what has been revealed in
the Bayán. To date, no authorized English translation of the
Tablet is available.
As to the circumstances of Mírzá Ya˙yá’s nomination, it is
interesting to note that in the Bábí Dispensation, the Lesser
Covenant, that Covenant made by the Manifestation of God
with His followers to accept His appointed successor, is,
according to the Guardian, found interspersed in the Báb’s
Book of Laws, the Persian Bayán, in many passages, some of
which were “designedly obscure,” but mostly “indubitably clear
and conclusive.”1 The Báb seems to have alerted His followers
to the promised advent of Bahá’u’lláh, instead of designating
an appointed successor. Indeed, the Guardian stated:
A successor or vicegerent the Báb never named, an
interpreter of His teachings He refrained from
appointing. So transparently clear were His references
to the Promised One, so brief was to be the duration of
His own Dispensation, that neither the one nor the
other was deemed necessary. All He did was, according
to the testimony of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in “A Traveller’s
Narrative,” to nominate, on the advice of Bahá’u’lláh
and of another disciple, Mírzá Ya˙yá, who would act
solely as a figure-head pending the manifestation of the
Promised One, thus enabling Bahá’u’lláh to promote,
in relative security, the Cause so dear to His heart.
(“God Passes By,” pp. 28—29)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The following extract from a letter dated 4 August 1980,
written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an
individual believer, deals with the position of Mírzá Ya˙yá in
the Bábí community:
Concerning the position of Mírzá Ya˙yá in the Bábí
community, the Guardian has made it quite clear in
“God Passes By” that Mírzá Ya˙yá was the Báb’s
“nominee” and was the “recognized chief of the Bábí
community” following the martyrdom of the Báb. He
has also referred to him as “titular head” and “a mere
figurehead” (see “God Passes By” page 90). The position
occupied by Mírzá Ya˙yá was far different from being
an appointed Successor of a Manifestation of God in
the sense that St. Peter, the Imám ‘Alí or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
were appointed Successors with far-reaching authority.
Obviously the Báb had no need to appoint such a
Successor, for He knew that Bahá’u’lláh was already
present and ready to be revealed at the appointed time.
He seems, therefore, merely to have nominated a titular
head for the Bábí community as a focal point of unity
until such time as He Whom God will make manifest
would decide to unveil Himself.
Additional details concerning the circumstances of Mírzá
Ya˙yá’s nomination are contained in
• ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “A Traveller’s Narrative” (Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980), pp. 37—38;
• Adib Taherzadeh, “The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,”
volume I (Oxford: George Ronald, 1974), pp. 53—54;
• Adib Taherzadeh, “The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,”
volume II (Oxford: George Ronald, 1977), pp. 241—242
and 247.
Titles of Azal
As to whether Mírzá Ya˙yá’s titles were derived from Tablets
of the Báb or fabricated by Azal and his followers, in his book,
“Mustayqi,” Mírzá Ya˙yá attributes a number of divine names
and attributes to himself, one of which is “Azal.”2

Elucidations: Mírzá Yahyá
The title “Íub˙-i-Azal” appears in an Islamic tradition which
is called Óadíth-i-Kumayl (Kumayl was a devoted student of the
first Imám, ‘Alí3), and a portion of the Óadíth is quoted by the
Báb in “Dalá’il-i-Sab’ih” (Bábíyyih Publication, p. 58). Mírzá Ya˙yá
and his followers erroneously have taken this term as a reference
to Mírzá Ya˙yá.
In the book “Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution
to Bahá’í Apologetics,”4
the following footnote provides
additional information about the origin of Mírzá Ya˙yá’s
attributing to himself the title “Íub˙-i-Azal.”
Mírzá Ya˙yá Azal was evidently known also by the
name Íub˙-i-Azal. This is, at least, the title used by
Browne, and it is probably through his works that this
title was first made public. In Azalí works (such as
“Hasht Bihisht”) and works written under Azalí
influence (such as the “Kitáb-i-Nuq†atu’l-Káf” or
Gobineau’s “Les Religions”) Mírzá Ya˙yá is referred to
by the title “Óa∂rat-i-Azal,” not “Íub˙i-Azal.” The
origin or first use of the title Íub˙-i-Azal has not yet
been identified. This title of honour was evidently not
conferred on him by the Báb, who only called him
“Thamaratu’l-Azalíyya” and “‘Ismu’l-Azal” (see Mírzá
Ya˙yá, “Mustayqi,” pp. 391f.). However, the Báb did
employ the title Íub˙-i-Azal in reference to various
other leading Báb’s (see the commentary on the Óadíth of
Kumayl, Teheran Bahá’í Archives MS 6006 C., pp. 74ff.), so that
it is quite possible that Mírzá Ya˙yá was occasionally
thus designated.
Persian Bayán, passage 2:16
… requests assistance in understanding a passage from the
Persian Bayán, 2:16, which, among other things, refers to the
Mustagháth and the timing of the advent of the Promised One.
Although … specific question is not clearly stated, it would
appear that he is unsure how the meaning of the verse in the
Bayán is to be understood in light of a statement in H. M.
Balyuzi’s “E. G. Browne and the Bahá’í Faith” concerning the
Azalí view of the coming of the Promised One.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
The Research Department has not, to date, been able to
locate an authoritative interpretation of the particular passage
from the Persian Bayán in the Writings. However, we attach
for … information a discussion of the prophesy in the Writings
of the Báb concerning the advent of the Promised One that is
published in “Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution to
Bahá’í Apologetics.”5
This discussion may well assist … in
furthering his understanding of some of the themes in the
passage in question.

NOTES
1 See “God Passes By” (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995), pp. 27—28.
2 A section of this book containing the divine names and attributes
appears in Rawhani Bushru’í’s “Risálih-i-Rawhání,” compiled by Vahíd
Ra’fatí (Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 2000), pp.
108—109.
3 In “The Encyclopaedia of Islám,” New Edition, ed. H. A. R. Gibb, et. al.
(Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1960), vol. I (A—B), p. 89, reference is made to
“‘Risálat al-Kumayliyya,’ on the traditional answer by `Alí to the
question of Kumayl b. Ziyád.”
4 Udo Schaefer, Nicola Towfigh and Ulrich Gollmer, “Making the Crooked
Straight: A Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics,” translated by
Geraldine Schuckelt (Oxford: George Ronald, 2000), p. 631.
5 Ibid., pp. 601—604.

Part 2: Will and Testament of the Báb

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Part 3: The Prophecy concerning the advent of
Man YuΩhiruhu’lláh1
The Báb evidently foresaw the imminent advent of the
Promised One whom He described in such glowing terms. This is
clear from many of the statements He made to contemporaries,
whom He exhorted to recognize both Himself and — as soon as
He appeared — the promised Man yuΩhiruhu’lláh. In a letter
written to a Muslim clergyman named Sulaymán, for instance,
He called upon the addressee to turn to Him (the Báb), since he
would otherwise be accursed. If he failed to accept the Báb, God
would forgive him only if he turned, by means of a letter, to ‘Him
whom God shall make manifest’ (SWB 1:9:7) — i.e. in the near
future, during Sulaymán’s lifetime. From another letter, written
by the Báb to the Sharif of Mecca and others, it is again evident
that the Báb expected the Promised One to appear during the
lifetime of the Sharif. The Báb admonished the Sharif of Mecca
To embrace the Cause of God and to implore that the
matter of thine allegiance be brought to the attention
of Him Whom God shall make manifest, that He may
graciously enable thee to prosper and cause thy fire to
be transformed into light. (SWB 1:7:3, p. 30)
Furthermore, it is implied in the Persian Bayán that Man
yuΩhiruhu’lláh would appear during the 19 years following the
Báb’s declaration of His mission (1844); i.e., in the period up
to the year 1863, although God alone would know the hour of
His coming. (Bayán VI:3) The early Bábís, too, clearly expected
the Promised One to arrive soon. Only this can explain the fact
that during the years immediately following the martyrdom of
the Báb so many proclaimed themselves to be the Promised One.
In contrast to this, the Azali doctrine that the Promised One
was to appear only after 1511 or 2001 years was based on
statements made by the Báb in the Persian Bayán concerning
Ghiyáth (Help) and Mustagháth (He who is called upon for help)
(Persian Bayán II:17, III:15), from which the numbers 1511 and 2001

1 From Making the Crooked Straight, by Udo Schaefer, Nicola Towfigh, Ulrich
Gollmer, trans. by Geraldine Schuckelt (Oxford: George Ronald, 2000).

Elucidations: Mírzá Yahyá
are derived by means of the Abjad system. This is interpreted as
an indication that the promised Man yuΩhiruhu’lláh will not
appear until this length of time has elapsed. This argument was
probably developed by the Azalis in order to dismiss
Bahá’u’lláh’s claim. They certainly referred to this in their
rejection of Bahá’u’lláh, as Browne confirms: “To these texts
the Ezelis specially appeal in justification of their rejection of
Behá’u’lláh’s [sic] claim to be the Promised Deliverer…” (JRAS
April 1892, p. 299) It is clear from the words of the Báb in the
Persian Bayán, however, that the Azali view does not conform
to that of the Báb when the latter expresses the hope that the
Promised One would come before the end of the Mustagháth:
None knoweth save God as to when the Manifestation
shall be. Whenever it occurs all have to follow the Point
of Truth and thank God. However, it is hoped of God’s
grace that it will arrive before the Mustagháth and the
Word of God will be exalted by it. (Persian Bayán III:15)
It is obvious from these words that the Báb regards the Mustagháth
as a period of time during which the Manifestation will appear.
Bahá’u’lláh evidently shares the Báb’s cyclical view and also sees
Ghiyáth and Mustagháth as cycles within which the Promised One
will appear. He speaks of the year 9 within the Mustagháth in which
Man yuΩhiruhu’lláh has appeared. (Ra˙íq-Makhtúm, p. 514) In
response to the Azali objection that He was already announcing
the advent of the Promised One, Bahá’u’lláh argued:
Shake off, O heedless ones, the slumber of negligence,
that ye may behold the radiance which His glory hath
spread through the world. How foolish are those who
murmur against the premature birth of His light. O ye
who are inly blind! Whether too soon or too late, the
evidences of His effulgent glory are now actually
manifest. It behoveth you to ascertain whether or not
such a light hath appeared. It is neither within your
power nor mine to set the time at which it should be
made manifest. God’s inscrutable Wisdom hath fixed
its hour beforehand. (GWB 50)
The Báb, too, was convinced that the Promised One ‘might appear
at any time,’ (TN, intro, p. xvii) as Browne correctly observed.

Letters Written on Behalf of the
Guardian
by Universal House of Justice
Contents
• Introductory letter
• Letters Written on Behalf of Shoghi Effendi
• Status of Research Department Memoranda
• Bahá’í Writings Based in Fact?

12 January 2006
Dear __
We have received an email letter of 23 July 2005 from Mr. _
…[Personal information omitted]… It would be appreciated if
you would convey the following information and the enclosed
item to Mr. _ …[Personal information omitted]… Enclosed you
will find a memorandum prepared by the Research Department
that should be of assistance to him in resolving his questions.
In addition to this information, the Universal House of
Justice has asked that we provide the following comments to be
conveyed to him.
With regard to your questions about the authority of letters
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, particularly those sent
from the Holy Land during the latter part of his ministry, there
is no justification for summarily dismissing the authoritative
guidance contained in this body of correspondence. If
concerns arise in relation to specific messages or topics
addressed, clarification can be sought from the Universal
House of Justice.

Elucidations: Letters of the Guardian
As to your question concerning when a matter is referred to
the Research Department, this is determined by the Universal
House of Justice depending on the nature of the inquiry. For
example, in reply to questions regarding interpretation of the
Text or the findings of general scholarship, the Research
Department would provide references from the authoritative
texts and offer comments that assist inquirers to draw their
own personal conclusions. Other questions that require a
decision on a specific case, consideration of general policies,
or elucidation of obscure matters would, after consultation by
the House of Justice, be referred to the Department of the
Secretariat for reply.
Finally, you ask whether Bahá’ís should accept all statements
in the Writings as based in fact, unless there is an explicit
reference to a particular statement being conditioned on other
information. It should be clear from the examples provided in
the memorandum of the Research Department that there are
some cases where passages from the Writings affirm specific
facts and other cases where passages conform to the beliefs of
particular peoples. It is, therefore, necessary for the reader to
determine the meaning of statements that are not explicit by
applying sound hermeneutical principles found in the
Teachings. While there is often room for a range of personal
interpretation on such matters, and a degree of ambiguity will
invariably
exist
in
some
cases,
usually
a
common
understanding is formed, which will change over time should
additional evidence come to light. Differences of personal
opinion about the meaning of the Text should not be allowed
to create discord or wrangling among the friends.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
MEMORANDUM
To: The Universal House of Justice
Date: 12 January 2006
From: Research Department
Letters written on Behalf of the Guardian
In an email letter of 23 July 2005 addressed to the Universal
House of Justice, Mr. _ poses a number of questions
concerning the degree of authority to be accorded to the letters
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi and to the memoranda
prepared by the Research Department, and he enquires whether
all statements in the Writings should be accepted as being
“based in fact, unless explicitly stated as being conditioned on
other information.” The Research Department has studied the
issues raised by Mr. _, and we offer the following comments.
Reference is made to statements on the Internet which
apparently infer that the Guardian discontinued the practice
of reviewing all letters written on his behalf when the amount
of correspondence increased. Mr. _ seeks confirmation of the
fact that Shoghi Effendi continued to review all letters written
on his behalf until the end of his life. The Research Department
sets out below the only information it has, to date, been able to
locate on this subject.
In a postscript appended to a letter dated 7 December 1930,
written on his behalf to an individual believer, Shoghi Effendi
described the normal procedure he followed in dealing with
correspondence written on his behalf:
I wish to add and say that whatever letters are sent in
my behalf from Haifa are all read and approved by me
before mailing. There is no exception whatever to this
rule.
Given the Guardian’s categorical assertion, it follows that
any “exception” to “this rule” would require his explicit
permission. For example, in the latter years of his ministry,
Shoghi Effendi assigned to the Hand of the Cause Leroy Ioas
the special responsibility for monitoring the progress of the

Elucidations: Letters of the Guardian
goals of the Ten Year Crusade. In implementing this specific
function, Mr. Ioas worked under the close supervision of the
Guardian; however, not all of his letters — for example, those
simply requesting information about the goals — were viewed
by Shoghi Effendi before being transmitted.
Mr. _ also enquires about the relative degree of authority
associated with letters written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi. He
indicates that he is puzzled by a statement in a letter written
on the Guardian’s behalf, which indicates that such letters are
“less authoritative,” especially since he presumes that Shoghi
Effendi would have reviewed these letters prior to their being
sent out. It seems likely that the statement referred to by Mr. _
is contained in the following extract from a letter dated 25
February 1951 written on behalf of the Guardian to a National
Spiritual Assembly. It is suggested that a careful reading of this
statement, which is cited below, will resolve the concern raised
by Mr. _. The extract states,
Although the secretaries of the Guardian convey his
thoughts and instructions and these messages are
authoritative, their words are in no sense the same as
his, their style certainly not the same, and their
authority less, for they use their own terms and not his
exact words in conveying his messages. (25 February 1951
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the British Isles)
Note that the letters written on behalf of the Guardian are also
described as being “authoritative.” No additional information
has, to date, come to light on this subject.
Status of Research Department Memoranda
Mr. _ raises a number of issues concerning the authority of
memoranda prepared by the Research Department and wishes
to know whether “believers could resubmit their questions, if
they felt it necessary to have a more ‘authoritative’ answer than
the Research Department could provide.” We cite, below, an
extract from an English translation of a letter dated 26 January
2003 in Persian, written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice to an individual believer, which contains guidance
pertaining to some of the issues raised by Mr. _:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
According to the guidance of the House of Justice,
letters received at the Bahá’í World Centre are sent to
various Departments, according to their topic. For
instance, all the letters related to the Research
Department are sent to that Department so that, with
the guidance of the House of Justice, appropriate
responses could be prepared which are then sent out
through its Department of the Secretariat.
In response to your question, it should be said that
while the answers from the Research Department are
prepared according to the instructions of the House of
Justice, they should be regarded as opinions of that
Department. These views, although quite useful and
helpful in illuminating and clarifying the issues or
questions at hand, should not be regarded as being as
authoritative as the guidance and pronouncements of
the Universal House of Justice. The House of Justice
has decided that material prepared by the Research
Department should be sent out unchanged to the
recipients, as it would like the friends to consider and
study the material with great diligence. Of course,
accepting the comments and opinions of the Research
Department does not hinder the friends from using
their own judgement in understanding and explaining
issues. The personal understandings of the Bahá’ís in
these cases are, of course, respected in their own right.
Bahá’í Writings Based in Fact?
Mr. _ expresses the view that in order to develop “a coherent
unity of thought among believers” it is necessary to resolve the
issue concerning whether “Bahá’ís should accept all statements
in the Writings as based in fact, unless explicitly stated as
being conditioned on other information.” He elaborates his
point by referring to statements in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. For example, he notes that in “The
Promulgation of Universal Peace”1 the Master indicates that
the Pentateuch prescribes “the cutting off of the hand of the
thief.” In this regard, he asks if Bahá’ís are “to confidently
accept that this was in fact … the law (and subsequently lost to
the scriptures), or that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was merely doctrinally

Elucidations: Letters of the Guardian
infallible, and that the essential point was the principle He was
trying to convey.” He, thus, seeks clarification of a statement
in a letter dated 3 June 1982 written on behalf of the Universal
House of Justice that appears on a Web site. This letter
distinguishes between the nature of the infallibility of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and of the Guardian as it relates to “subjects not
pertaining to the Faith.” The extract in question is as follows:
2. There is nothing in the Writings that would lead us
to the conclusion that what Shoghi Effendi says about
himself concerning statements on subjects not directly
related to the Faith also applies to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Instead we have assertions which indicate that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s position in the Faith is one for which we find
“no parallel” in past Dispensations. For example,
Bahá’u’lláh, in addition to His reference to the Centre
of His Covenant as the “Mystery of God,” states that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá should be regarded as God’s “exalted
Handiwork” and “a Word which God hath adorned
with the ornament of His Own Self, and made it
sovereign over the earth and all that there is therein.”
And from Shoghi Effendi we have the incontrovertible
statement that the Guardian of the Faith while
“overshadowed” by the “protection” of Bahá’u’lláh and
of the Báb, “remains essentially human,” whereas in
respect of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Shoghi Effendi categorically
states that “in the person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the
incompatible characteristics of a human nature and
superhuman knowledge and perfection have been
blended and are completely harmonized.”
By way of introduction we wish to note that the statements
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred to by Mr. _ are from the Master’s
published talks. It was the custom that, as He delivered these
talks, His words were written down in Persian, and the words
of the translator were taken down in English, bringing the
reliability
and
accuracy
of
the
translations
and
the
transcriptions into question. As a consequence, the authority
of most talks and verbal utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is not the
same as that accorded to His written Text. This principle and
the general status of such compilations as “The Promulgation
of Universal Peace” and “Paris Talks” are elaborated in the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
following extract from a letter dated 9 March 1977 written on
behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual
believer:
Among the utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, foremost is the
compilation of His immortal talks entitled “Some
Answered Questions.” The original of this important
compilation is preserved in the Holy Land; its text was
read in full and corrected by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself. The
translation, although not perfect, was considered by
the Guardian to be adequate for the time being; in due
course it will be thoroughly checked and improved, of
course. Unfortunately, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá did not read and
authenticate all transcripts of His other talks, some of
which have been translated into various languages and
published. For many of His addresses included in “The
Promulgation of Universal Peace” and “Paris Talks,”
for example, no original authenticated text has yet been
found.
However,
the
Guardian
allowed
such
compilations to continue to be used by the friends,
and the Universal House of Justice has indicated that
the same ruling applies to “Star of the West.” In the
future each talk will have to be identified, and those
which are unauthenticated will have to be clearly
distinguished from those which form a part of Bahá’í
Scripture. This does not mean that the unauthenticated
talks will have to cease to be used — merely that the
degree of authenticity of every document will have to
be known and understood.
With regard to the two references in “The Promulgation of
Universal Peace,” to the punishment in question, the first
appears in a talk dated 12 October 1912 and the second in a talk
of 8 November 1912. The World Centre does not have a Persian
transcript for the 12 October talk but the Persian transcript
for the second talk is published in “Khitábát.” Study of this
transcript reveals that the Persian version does not correspond
to the English translation, and the reference to the punishment
in question does not occur.2 In this instance, it seems to us
that the apparent association of the punishment in question
with the Torah and Jewish law may well be an artifact of the

Elucidations: Letters of the Guardian
unreliability of the English transcript of the talk in which it
occurs.
As to Mr. _’s request for further clarification concerning
the implications of the statement concerning the degree of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s infallibility contained in the letter dated 3 June
1982 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice and
which is cited earlier in this memorandum, it is suggested that
Mr. _ might find it useful to study the complete letter from
which the passage of interest is drawn, since the letter contains
additional elucidation about the nature of divinely conferred
infallibility. Another useful resource is Shoghi Effendi’s
comprehensive explanation of the uniqueness of the station of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
that
appears
in
“The
Dispensation
of
Bahá’u’lláh.”3
Additional questions are raised concerning the historical
accuracy of statements by Bahá’u’lláh and the Master. For
example, Mr. _ mentions Bahá’u’lláh’s references to the period
in which Empedocles and Pythagoras lived and asks whether
Bahá’ís believe, “as a matter of faith that modern historians are
wrong on these points, or again, that the doctrine alone is
infallible.”4 To assist Mr. _ in thinking about these issues, we
call to his attention the guidance contained in the following
extract from a letter dated 3 November 1987, written on behalf
of the Universal House of Justice to an individual believer. The
letter states,
The Universal House of Justice has received your letter
of … and has directed us to convey the following in
response to your question about Empedocles and
Pythagoras referred to in the Law˙-i-Hikmat.
In a Tablet written in response to questions raised
about
this
Tablet,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
clarifies
the
perspective toward statements made by Bahá’u’lláh in
the Law˙-i-Hikmat which differ from the current
concepts of western historians. The Master states that
histories of the times before Alexander the Great are
very confused and that when the subject came under
scholarly discipline in later times the greatest difficulty
was, and still is, experienced in giving dates with any
certainty. He further points out that the Words of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Bahá’u’lláh are the standard and that the statements
made in the Tablet of Wisdom are in accordance with
certain of the historical records of the East.
In reference to the specific passage in the Law˙-i-
Hikmat regarding Empedocles and Pythagoras being
contemporaries of David and Solomon, the following
is an excerpt from a letter written on behalf of the
Guardian to an individual believer who enquired about
this passage:
We must not take this statement too literally;
“contemporary” may have been meant in
Persian as something far more elastic than the
English word. (15 February 1947)
It is noteworthy that at both the beginning and end of this
section of the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh indicates that He is quoting
“some accounts of the sages.” These would have been the
historical accounts familiar to the person whom He is
addressing in the Tablet. The fact that Bahá’u’lláh makes such
statements for the sake of illustrating the spiritual principles
that He wishes to convey, does not necessarily mean that He is
endorsing their historical accuracy. In this connection it is
interesting to note the answer given by the beloved Guardian’s
secretary on his behalf to a question about the “fourth heaven”
mentioned in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán. The translation of the passage is
as follows:
As to the ascent of Christ to the “fourth heaven” as
revealed in the glorious Book of ˆqán, he [the Guardian]
stated that the “fourth heaven” is a term used and a
belief held by the early astronomers. The followers of
the Shí’ah sect likewise held this belief. As the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán was revealed for the guidance of that sect, this
term was used in conformity with the concepts of its
followers.

NOTES
1 See “The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912,” rev. ed.

Elucidations: Letters of the Guardian

(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982, 1995 printing), p. 365 and p.
404.
2 “Khitábát, Talks of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá” (Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag,
1984), see p. 615.
3 See, particularly, “The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters”
(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991, 2004 printing), pp. 131-139.
4 See “Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas” (Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, 2005 printing), p. 145.

Daniel’s Prophecies
M E M O R A N D U M
To: The Universal House of Justice
Date: 13 December 1990, Revised February 1996
From: Research Department
From time to time, questions are raised by the Bahá’ís about
the interpretation of the Biblical prophecies contained in the
following verses in Daniel 12:11-12:
And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken
away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there
shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days.
Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three
hundred and five and thirty days.
To assist the friends in their study of this subject, the
Research Department has prepared a summary of the
elucidations contained in the Writings of Abdu’l-Bahá and the
letters written by or on behalf of Shoghi Effendi on this theme.
Three main issues are addressed: the interpretation of 1,290
days; the interpretation of 1,335 days; and the date of the
commencement of the “hundred lunar years,” which, as
mentioned by Shoghi Effendi in “God Passes By” (Wilmette:
Bahá’í
Publishing
Trust,
1987), page 151, will precede the
consummation of the 1,335 days.
1. 1,290 Days
In “Some Answered Questions” (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1984), pages 43-44, Abdu’l-Bahá interprets the prophecy
concerning the 1,290 days in the following terms:
The beginning of this lunar reckoning is from the day
of
the
proclamation
of
the
prophethood
of
Mu˙ammad in the country of Hijaz; and that was three
years after His mission, because in the beginning the
prophethood of Mu˙ammad was kept secret, and no

Elucidations: Daniel’s Prophecies
one knew it save Khadijah and Ibn Nawfal. After three
years it was announced. And Bahá’u’lláh, in the year
1290 from the proclamation of the mission of
Mu˙ammad, caused His manifestation to be known.
Note that the Master indicates that, in this instance, time is
measured by the “lunar” calendar. Since the proclamation of
the mission of Mu˙ammad took place ten years prior to the
Hegira, i.e., His flight from Mecca to Medina, from which
date the Muslim calendar begins, the year 1290 from the
proclamation of the mission of Mu˙ammad was the year 1280
of the Hegira, or 1863-64 A.D.
There are references to 1,290 days in “God Passes By,” on
pages 110 and 151. In these passages, Shoghi Effendi confirms
that the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad, which occurred
in 1863 (1280 A.H.), represents the fulfilment of the 1,290 days.
2. 1,335 Days
Two Tablets revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá which are published in
“The Passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá” (Haifa: 1922), by Lady Blomfield
and Shoghi Effendi, provide interpretations of the 1,335 days
referred to by Daniel:
Now concerning the verse in Daniel, the interpretation
whereof thou didst ask, namely, “Blessed is he who
cometh unto the thousand three hundred and thirty
five days.” These days must be reckoned as solar and
not lunar years. For according to this calculation a
century will have elapsed from the dawn of the Sun of
Truth, then will the teachings of God be firmly
established upon the earth, and the Divine Light shall
flood the world from the East even unto the West.
Then, on this day, will the faithful rejoice! (p. 31)
O servant of God! The afore mentioned a thousand
three hundred and thirty-five years must be reckoned
from the day of the flight of His Holiness Mu˙ammad,
the Apostle of God, (Hegira) salutations and blessings
rest upon Him, at the close of which time the signs of
the rise, the glory, the exaltation, the spread of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Word of God throughout the East and the West shall
appear. (p. 31)
From these Tablets it appears that:
1. The spread of the Faith throughout the world will signal
the fulfilment of this prophecy.
2. The “days must be reckoned as solar and not lunar years.”
3. The Tablets suggest that the prophecy is fulfilled by
two different dates. The first derives from the
centenary of the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh; the second
is calculated from 622 A.D. — hence, 1963 and 1957.
Shoghi Effendi associated Daniel’s reference to the 1,335
days and Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements about this prophecy with
the centenary of the formal assumption of Bahá’u’lláh’s
prophetic office and the worldwide triumph of the Bahá’í
Cause. He stressed that the prophecy refers to occurrences
within the Bahá’í community, rather than to events in the
outside world, e.g., the establishment of peace. While the
Guardian clearly allied the triumph of the Faith with the
successful termination of the third Teaching Plan undertaken
by the believers, in his letters and those written on his behalf,
three specific dates are mentioned as marking the fulfilment of
Daniel’s prophecy.
2.1 1960 —  A lunar reckoning
Concerning the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad,
Shoghi Effendi, in “God Passes By,” page 151, wrote:
The “hundred lunar years,” destined to immediately
precede that blissful consummation (1,335 days),
announced by Daniel … had commenced.
One hundred years, by a “lunar reckoning,” after the
Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh coincides with 1960.
2.2 1963 —  A solar reckoning
When
the
world-embracing
Spiritual
Crusade
was
announced in October 1952, Shoghi Effendi linked the

Elucidations: Daniel’s Prophecies
completion of this decade-long enterprise with the fulfilment
of Daniel’s prophecy:
LET THEM AS THEY ENTER IT VOW ONE VOICE
ONE HEART ONE SOUL NEVER TURN BACK
ENTIRE COURSE FATEFUL DECADE AHEAD UNTIL
EACH EVERY ONE WILL HAVE CONTRIBUTED
SHARE LAYING ON WORLD-WIDE SCALE AN
UNASSAILABLE ADMINISTRATIVE FOUNDATION
FOR
BAHA’U’LLAH’S
CHRIST-PROMISED
KINGDOM
ON
EARTH
SWELLING
THEREBY
CHORUS
UNIVERSAL
JUBILATION
WHEREIN
EARTH HEAVEN WILL JOIN AS PROPHESIED
DANIEL ECHOED ‘ABDU’L-BAHA ON THAT DAY
WILL FAITHFUL REJOICE WITH EXCEEDING
GLADNESS. (“Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957”
(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971), p. 44)
Thereafter, the fulfilment of Daniel’s prophecy concerning the
1,335 days is associated with the end of the Ten Year Crusade.
For example, in a letter dated 9 February 1953 on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi to a group of Bahá’ís, his secretary wrote:
The purpose of the Conferences1 will be the world-wide
propagation of the Faith. They will lay the foundations
of the service of the Bahá’ís of the world for the great
Ten Year Crusade ahead — which, God willing, will be
consummated in the fulfilment of the prophecies of
Daniel, and the achievement of the initial goals set by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, whereby
the world will be flooded with the Glory of the Lord.
And, in a letter dated 11 May 1956 written on behalf of the
Guardian to an individual believer, we find the following
statement:
…when we fulfil the Ten Year Crusade, we will have
brought into fulfilment Daniel’s great prophecy of
“Blessed is he who waits and comes to the 1335 days.”

1 International Conferences scheduled to take place during 1953.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
2.3 1957
There are several references in letters written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi which give 1957 as the date of the fulfilment of
the prophecy. For example:
It is far too early to make any predictions about peace
of any sort, judging by the ebullitions of the world’s
affairs these days! ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in His Tablets,
connects the prophecy of Daniel — 1957 — with the
proclamation and spread of the Cause. (31 July 1946 to an
individual believer)
It is interesting to note that, when a National Spiritual
Assembly sought clarification from the beloved Guardian
about whether the 1,335 days culminate in 1957 or in 1963,
Shoghi Effendi in a letter dated 30 June 1952 written on his
behalf indicated:
Regarding the prophecy of Daniel … this prophecy refers
to the hundredth anniversary of the Declaration of
Bahá’u’lláh in the Garden of Ridvan, Baghdad. Reference
to this can be found in “The Passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá”
in quotations from two of His Tablets. (30 June 1952)
2.4 The Calculation of the Date
A number of believers requested guidance from Shoghi
Effendi about how to calculate the date that will coincide with
the fulfilment of the 1,335 days. We provide two responses
written on behalf of the Guardian:
The 1335 days referred to by Daniel will be fulfilled in
1963. The date of the Hijra is 622 A.D. The 1335 days is
figured according to the solar calendar, but in
adjusting the 1335 days, one must take into
consideration the time at which the prophecies were
given and change them into solar time, which would
bring the date to 1963.
There is one thing of importance for the Bahá’ís to
understand; and that is, that this prophecy refers to
happenings within the Faith, not occurrences outside
the Faith. It refers specifically to the spread of the Faith

Elucidations: Daniel’s Prophecies
over the face of the earth. This will be accomplished
when the Bahá’í Faith is firmly established in all of the
virgin areas outlined in the Ten Year Crusade, and the
other goals of the Crusade are completed. Thus it
behoves us to work day and night in order to
accomplish this glorious goal. (18 December 1953 to an
individual believer)
As regards your question concerning the date 1335: The
reckoning of this date does not bring it to the exact
date of 1963, but a few more years. Nevertheless, there
is no conflict in this, because ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that it
will be the beginning of the diffusion of the Light of
the Faith in the east and the west. This will already have
begun to come about before 1963, which is the
fulfilment of the 100 years from Bahá’u’lláh’s
Declaration. (31 January 1955 to an individual believer)
It is noteworthy that insufficient information is provided
in the first extract to permit a precise calculation, while in the
second, the Guardian’s secretary indicates that a calculation
would not give “the exact date of 1963, but a few more years.”
The Research Department has not been able to locate any
additional
authoritative
texts
which
contain
detailed
instructions concerning how to make the calculation.
3. The “Hundred Lunar Years”
In God Passes By page 151, Shoghi Effendi allies the “hundred
lunar “years after the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh with the
fulfilment of the 1,335 days of Daniel’s prophecy. The only
other reference to one hundred “lunar” years that the Research
Department has, so far, been able to find, is contained in a
letter dated 31 October 1947 written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to a National Spiritual Assembly. This letter clarifies
the mistaken assumption that the year 1335 relates to the
centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s mystic experience in the Siyah-Chal
(i.e., 1952-1953):
He wishes me to point out that this is inaccurate as on
page 151 of “God Passes By,” in the references to His
Declaration, the Guardian clearly states that with this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Declaration the “hundred lunar years” … had commenced.
The mystic experience of Bahá’u’lláh was in the Siyah-
Chal and has nothing to do with Daniel’s prophecy.
This statement of the Guardian is itself based on extracts
from two of the Master’s Tablets which are published in “The
Passing of Abdu’l-Bahá.”
In addition, a believer asked Shoghi Effendi about the
relationship between the establishment of peace and the
fulfilment of the prophecy about the 1,335 days and requested
the source of, a reference to, and the starting date of, a
prophecy concerning the “one hundred years after the
Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh” referred to in a pilgrim’s notes. The
Guardian in a letter dated 1 April 1946 written on his behalf
made the following response:
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s interpretation of the prophecy of
Daniel does not definitely connect it with either the
Lesser or the Most Great Peace, but rather with a great
step forward on the part of humanity and the Bahá’í
Faith. All we know is that the Lesser and the Most Great
Peace will come — their exact dates we do not know.
The 100 years is from 1853; the Master explains this in some
of His Tablets, and is quoted in “The Passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”
Both of the letters cited above base their conclusions on the
same two Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which are quoted in section
2 of this memorandum. Since the beloved Guardian rules out a
relationship between Daniel’s prophecy and the intimation of
the coming of revelation to Bahá’u’lláh, it is evident that some
other explanation must be found for the significance of the
one- hundred-year period that begins in 1853.
4. Concluding Remarks
While it is clear that the prophecy concerning the 1,335 days
is associated with the spread of the Bahá’í Faith throughout the
world, several different dates are given in our authoritative
texts for the actual fulfilment of this prophecy. As mentioned
earlier, the two Tablets of the Master which are cited in “The
Passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” page 31, suggest different dates for
the fulfilment of the prophecy of the 1,335 days: 1963 and 1957.

Elucidations: Daniel’s Prophecies
Further, in the letters written by or on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, the Guardian indicates that these same Tablets form
the basis for his interpretation of the date of the fulfilment of
the 1,335 days referred to in Daniel. Three different dates are
either given by the Guardian or can be inferred from these same
Tablets — 1957, 1960, and 1963.
In addition, these same Tablets are also given as the reference
for the one-hundred-year period that began in 1853.
In light of the foregoing, it is, therefore, suggested that:
4. The prophecy of Daniel about the 1,335 days is not
fulfilled by just one single date. Its fulfilment is,
rather, a process that extends over a period of time.
5. The fulfilment of the prophecy coincides with the
period of the Ten Year Crusade, 1953-1963, a span of
time that includes 1953 (the end of the hundred years
whose significance is unclear), 1957, 1960, and 1963.
It is interesting to note that Shoghi Effendi described the
Ten Year Crusade as the “ninth part” of that “majestic process,
set in motion at the dawn of the Adamic cycle” by means of
which the “light” of God’s Revelation will be diffused in both
the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, through the operation
of a decade-long world spiritual crusade whose termination
will, God willing, coincide with the Most Great Jubilee
commemorating
the
Centenary
of
the
Declaration
of
Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad. (30
April
to
the
All-America
Intercontinental Teaching Conference, published in MBW p. 155)
Furthermore, the Guardian in a letter dated 7 March 1955
written on his behalf to an individual believer states:
Thus in the Ten Year Crusade, we are actually fulfilling
the prophecy of Daniel, because with the completion of
the Ten Year Crusade in 1963 we will have established
the Faith in every part of the globe.
What a great privilege it is that individuals such as we
are, have an opportunity to not only spread the
Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, but in this period of the Ten
Year Crusade, are actually engaged in the fulfilment of
prophecy.

Appendix I
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
abbreviations used in this book*
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, Commemorative ed. London, UK:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
ADP
Abdu’l-Bahá. Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy. Comp. Elizabeth Fraser
Chamberlain. Boston, MA: Tudor Press, 1918
BA
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages 1922 — 1932,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1984
BP
compilation. Bahá’í Prayers
BW
World Centre Publications. Bahá’í World, The, volumes I (1925) through
XX (1986-92); new series 1993-2007. Haifa: World Centre Publications.
BWF
compilation. Bahá’í World Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
CUHJ
The Constitution of The Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1972
CC
Compilation of Compilations volumes I-3. World Centre Publications /
Bahá’í Publications Australia. Vol. 1-2: 1991; Vol. 3: 1993
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith. Messages to America, 1947-1957.
Wilmette: Illinois, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1965.
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1979
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Hidden Words. Numerous editions
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi and the Bahá’í World Centre. Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
KJV
King James Version, The Bible. Numerous editions
LDG
Shoghi Effendi. Lights of Divine Guidance, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Germany, 1982
LG
compilation. Lights of Guidance. India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
MBW
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World: 1950-1957, Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, Wilmette, 1971
MSEI
Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent
MUHJ63 Universal House of Justice, comp. Geoffry W. Marks. Messages from the
Universal House of Justice 1963-86: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996
OCF
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ. One Common Faith.

Appendices
Bahá’í World Centre, 2005
PB
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, Haifa: Bahá’í World
Center, 1972.
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Prayers and Meditations, 1st pocket ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. Ontario: Nine Pines Publishing
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, 2nd ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1982
Q
Qur’án. Numerous editions
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, comp. and trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Some Answered
Questions, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, trans. Marzieh Gail. Secret of Divine Civilization, 1st pocket
ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. World Centre Publications. Summons of the Lord of
Hosts. Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia,
SV
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, 4th ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SWB
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ, trans. Habib
Taherzadeh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
TDH
Shoghi Effendi. This Decisive Hour, Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the
North American Bahá’ís 1932—1946. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Traveller’s Narrative, A. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1994
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, 1st pocket ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991

* No formal list of abbreviations exists, but semi-formal lists can be derived from
abbreviations used by the Bahá’í World Centre. First, a partial list is in Messages
from the Universal House of Justice 1963-86. Second, the BWC downloads site
has
a
list
of
their
filename
abbreviations
at
http://library.bahai.or/README/README-TREE.htm. Those two have been
combined. See more at http://bahai-library.com/?file=abbreviations

Appendix II
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Seven
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith:
From Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive
Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án
and in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of
Glorious Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh:
Tablets and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The
Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az
ghayb-i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: An Introduction
and Three Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád) — A Provisional
Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses
Concerning the Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of
the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language,
Revelation and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation
of Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden
Essence of God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Tablet of Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í
Faith: Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan
Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
(Súriy-i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh
to the Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human
Nature and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the
women of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles
with the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial
Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine
Throne and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human
History
Iscander Micael Tinto

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s
System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
by Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
Elucidations
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish,
Christian, Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of
Materials on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other
Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief
Survey of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: An Exposition on Excerpts from the Persian
Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1
(1753-1863)
Ramsey Zeine

Appendices
Appendix III
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
English-Language Publications
• Scripture and Revelation, Moojan Momen (ed.),
Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1997
• The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions, Moojan
Momen (ed.), Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 2005.
• The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented
at the ‘Irfán Colloquia, Iraj Ayman (general ed.), Book
One, 2000; Book Two, 2001; Book Three, 2002; Book
Four, 2003; Book Five, 2004; Book Six, 2005; Book
Seven, 2006; Book Eight, 2007.
• Occasional Papers volume 1: “Images of Christ in the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” by Maryam Afshar.
Persian-Language Publications
Publications for sale:
• Safini-yi ‘Irfán, Books I to X (Collections of the
papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in Persian)
Publications produced for and given to the participants of the
‘Irfán Colloquia:
• Mathnavyi Abha by F. Radmehr (A Commentary of the
Mathnavi of Bahá’u’lláh)
• Ráhnamay-i Mutál’i-yi-Athár-i-Qalam-A’lá, Books I
to IV (Guidebooks for the Study of the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh)
• Ráhnamay-i Mutál’-yi-Athár-i Hazrati-’Abdu’l-Bahá,
Books I to IV (Guidebook for the Study of the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight
• Basitu’l-Haqiqat (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb
and a some explanatory articles on “Basitu’l Haqiqih”)
• Tajjaliyyih Barkhi Jilvih-háy-i Hayát-i Bahá’í dar
Zindigáni-yi Hazrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, by Flower Sámi
(Manifestations of Living a Bahá’í Life as Appears in
the Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: a Study in the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá)
All ‘Irfán publications in English and Persian may be ordered
from:
Bahá’í Distribution Service
Bosch Bahá’í School
4703 Fulton Industrial Blvd.
500 Comstock Lane
Atlanta, Georgia 30336-2017
Santa Cruz, CA 95060-9615
Tel: 404-472-9019
Tel: 831-423-3387
Fax: 404-472-0119
Fax: 831-423-7564
Email: bds@usbnc.org
Email: kcaldwell@usbnc.org
Web: www.bahaibookstore.com

German-Language Publications
• Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums 2003: ‘Irfán-Studien
zum Bahá’í-Schrifttum (Collections of the papers
presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in German).
Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í-Verlag. Book I, 2004; Book
II, 2005; Book III, 2006.
‘Irfán publications in German may be ordered from:
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Strasse 89
65719
Hofheim, Germany
Tel: +49-(0)-6192-22921
Fax: +49-(0)-6192-22936
Email: info@bahai-verlag.de
Web: www.bahai-verlag.de