THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1996-08-06

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we are greatly heartened by the news reaching us of the enthusiastic

response of the friends to the four year plan. particularly encouraging are

the efforts of National Spiritual Assemblies everywhere to establish training

institutes and to systematically address the development of human resourc-

es. The number of national and regional institutes is rapidly increasing,

and indications are that there may be more than one hundred operating in the world by the close of the first year of the plan. we cherish the hope

that from each of these centers of learning will issue forth ever-growing

contingents of believers capable of carrying out a wide array of services to

the cause, creating thus in every country the capacity to sustain the process

of entry by troops.

in some national communities, economic conditions are such that insti-

tutes can be financially self-supporting from the outset. but the majority

of communities cannot meet the expenses associated with the operation of their training institutes. These expenses include materials for courses, teach-

ing and office supplies, communications, maintenance of equipment, and

sometimes transport of students and their food and lodging.

The most crucial item in the budgets of the institutes of many countries,

however, is financial support for full- and part-time staff to coordinate train-

ing activities and to offer courses both at a central site and in the surround-

ing towns and villages. with this latter need in mind, we drew attention in

the ri¤ván message to bahá’u’lláh’s call that the believers should center their

energies on the propagation of the faith of god and to his injunction that:

“whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and promote it. whoso

is unable, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this revelation. . . .”

231-1 we then stated that deputizing a teacher serving an

institute would be one way of fulfilling this responsibility and indicated

that the friends could contribute to the continental bahá’í fund, as well as

the local, National and i nternational f unds, for this purpose.

231-1. gwb, no. 96.3.231.1

231.2

231.3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

57in order to lend impetus to this vital development, we have now made

a contribution of uS$300,000 to be divided among the five continental

funds according to the circumstances in each continent. Although this con-

tribution is but a fraction of the amount called for, it is our hope that the

friends, especially those with means, will follow suit and will give adequate attention to this area of urgent need. Since financial requirements vary from

country to country, the continental counselors will be the best source

of information on the level of deputization required for various regions

throughout the world. we are asking them to keep their Auxiliary board

members informed so that they can advise those who wish to contribute to

this pressing worldwide enterprise.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

232

Electioneering

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]