THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2007-09-09

To the Bahá'í students deprived of access

39

7

9 September 2007

To the Bahá’í students deprived of access

to higher education in Iran

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

7.1 In these difficult days laden with tribulation, we are with

you in spirit, our hearts heavy at the injustice that continues to

rain upon you. The persistent position of the Iranian authorities

in banning Bahá’í students from access to higher education is

deeply saddening. The policy was clearly confirmed in a recently

disclosed communication by the Central Security Office of the Ministry of Science, Research, and Technology, confidentially

conveyed to the officials of eighty-one universities in Iran,

which called for the expulsion of any student discovered to be a Bahá’í. It has now been reaffirmed by the action taken recent-

ly by the Education Evaluation Organization, which declared as

“incomplete”—and therefore invalid—the applications of some

800 Bahá’ís who took the national exam for university entrance

for the coming academic year (2007–2008). These official acts are disappointing and shameful.

7.2 Only a few months ago, reports carried by newspapers

about the expulsion of Bahá’í students in Iran were denied by a

spokesperson for Iran’s mission to the United Nations, who said

outright that no one in Iran is expelled from university because

of religion. That same assurance was given by the embassy of

the Islamic Republic of Iran in the United Kingdom, in a written response to the concern a British Member of Parliament had

expressed about the government’s treatment of Bahá’í students.

A similar avowal by the Iranian embassy in Ethiopia appeared in a newspaper in that country following the publication of

a story reporting Iran’s covert plan to identify Bahá’ís and

secretly monitor their activities throughout the country.

7.3 For more than two decades Bahá’í students in Iran were

unable to enter university because the only way open to them

40

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONwould have been to misrepresent their Faith. Then, consequent

to a concerted worldwide effort—involving governments,

educational institutions, nongovernmental organizations, and

individuals—that raised questions about this situation, your

government’s representatives responded by averring that the

reference to religion on the forms was not to identify university applicants by belief but only to specify the religion on which

they wished to be examined.

7.4 That you would have received such explanations with a

degree of skepticism is understandable. However, as a gesture of goodwill and to find a solution to an issue that adversely

affects the good name of Iran, the Bahá’í community accepted

this apparent clarification. At long last, you were able to feel

hopeful that the way would now be clear for you to continue your education. Thus, some of you sat for the 2006–2007

entrance examination and were able to register at university.

Your hopes were, however, short-lived, as over the course of this academic year more than half of those who had been

enrolled were expelled, and we now have the Ministry’s letter

which confirms that for no other reason than your adherence

to the Bahá’í Faith you will not be permitted to continue your

education at institutions of higher learning in your country.

7.5 Recent events call to mind heartrending episodes in the

history of the Faith, of cruel deceptions wrought against your

forebears. It is only appropriate that you strive to transcend the

opposition against you with that same constructive resilience

that characterized their response to the duplicity of their de-

tractors. Peering beyond the distress of the difficulties assailing them, those heroic souls attempted to translate the Teachings

of the new Faith into actions of spiritual and social develop-

ment. This, too, is your work. Their objective was to build, to strengthen, to refine the tissues of society wherever they might

find themselves; and thus, they set up schools, equally educating

girls and boys; introduced progressive principles; promoted

the sciences; contributed significantly to diverse fields such as

agriculture, health, and industry—all of which accrued to the benefit of the nation. You, too, seek to render service to your

homeland and to contribute to a renewal of civilization. They

responded to the inhumanity of their enemies with patience, calm, resignation, and contentment, choosing to meet deception

with truthfulness and cruelty with goodwill towards all. You,

too, demonstrate such noble qualities and, holding fast to these

41

Faith, evoking the admiration of the fair-minded.

7.6 This action of the government in obstructing youth,

Bahá’í or otherwise, from access to higher education stands in

contrast to the noble history of Iran’s past attainments. How

is it to be explained to the people of the world, especially the youth, when such doings can be perpetrated in a nation that

claims adherence to Islamic principles? What then of the value

of education as upheld in past centuries by these principles, which stimulated the establishment of  renowned centers of

learning and produced in your nation brilliant minds that, in

advancing knowledge, made enduring contributions to the arts

and sciences? What must be the repercussions for the nation

when thoughtful people and eminent institutions abroad, in utter dismay, find it inconceivable that a Ministry charged with

promoting learning would issue such directives as would deny

citizens of its own country access to education? What can poss -

ibly be said by the officials responsible as to the moral grounds

for such decisions? Can it reasonably be assumed that they

have any regard for international commitments Iran has made

to justice and fair-mindedness or, indeed, bear any awareness

of the fear of God?

7.7 The sufferings you bear, the sacrifices you ceaselessly make,

however grievous the circumstances, are only a part of the hor -

rors agonizing millions upon millions in Iran and throughout the world in these times of global ferment. Such acknowledge-

ment does not diminish in the least your adversity, but it is

essential that you grasp its context. Bahá’u’lláh remarked often on the dire state of the world. “The winds of despair are, alas,

blowing from every direction, and the strife that divides and

afflicts the human race is daily increasing,” He  wrote. “The world is in great turmoil and the minds of its people are in a

state of utter confusion.”

7.8 In response to their agonies, some feel impelled to rise

against their oppressors, some can only flee for refuge, some capitulate to their fate. But while most of the afflicted peoples

of the world are often the victims of random forces of oppress-

ion, prejudice, or injustice, you know clearly why you suffer,

and your response must be equally clear. Consider some of the exhortations of Bahá’u’lláh and of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Do not

busy yourselves in your own concerns; let your thoughts be

fixed upon that which will rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind

42

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONand sanctify the hearts and souls of men.” “Pay ye no heed to

aversion and rejection, to disdain, hostility, injustice: act ye

in the opposite way.” “If others ... poison your lives, sweeten

their souls ...” “Should any one of you enter a city, he should

become a center of attraction by reason of his sincerity, his

faithfulness and love, his honesty and fidelity, his truthfulness and loving-kindness towards all the peoples of the world….”

“Be ye the helpers of every victim of oppression, the patrons

of the disadvantaged.” “Let him do some good to every person whose path he crosseth, and be of some benefit to him.” “...

undertake in all sincerity and purity of intent and for the sake

of God alone, to counsel and exhort the masses and clarify their

vision with that collyrium which is knowledge.”

7.9 Did Bahá’u’lláh Himself not endure hardship to promulgate

His Teachings? Did He not consent “to be bound with chains that mankind may be released from its bondage”?

7.10 With an illumined conscience, with a world-embracing

vision, with no partisan political agenda, and with due regard for law and order, strive for the regeneration of your country.

By your deeds and services, attract the hearts of those around

you, even win the esteem of your avowed enemies, so that you

may vindicate the innocence of, and gain ever-increasing respect and acceptance for, your community in the land of its birth.

Think not that these are mere words meant to soothe your

disappointed hearts. Think rather of the situation which has developed as a result of the disciplined reaction to the torment

borne by Iranian Bahá’ís since 1979. Has the manner of their

response to oppression thus far not elicited the warm admir -

ation of increasing numbers of their compatriots? To defend yourselves is, of course, only fair, and every principled means is being taken to defend you against oppression. Is there not

an active defense mounted on your behalf by governments and

nongovernmental organizations, at national and international levels, and well-respected institutions of higher learning every-

where? Obviously, you are not alone. But your perseverance

must be accompanied by patience; indeed, the patience required

in the usually slow processes of social evolution is painful.

7.11 Opposition to a newly revealed truth is a common matter

of human history; it repeats itself in every age. But of equal historical consistency is the fact that nothing can prevail against

an idea whose time has come. The time has arrived for freedom

of belief, for harmony between science and religion, faith and

43

prejudice of every kind, for mutual respect between diverse

peoples and nations, indeed, for the unity of the entire human

race. The deepest yearnings of the Iranian people resonate with

implications of the world-revolutionizing principles enunciated

by Bahá’u’lláh.

7.12 Service to others is the way. Let it be your watchword,

‘Abdu’l-Bahá being your exemplar. Like Him, you can find

practical ways of serving your fellow citizens. Strive to work

hand in hand, shoulder to shoulder, with your fellow citizens in

your efforts to promote the common good.

7.13 This surely is a time for the gallantry of illumined souls.

Very dear friends, we pray that you can be counted among this noble company.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]