THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

15 May 2006

To selected National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The approach adopted by the Universal House of Justice for the assignment of international financial collaboration goals over the past ten years has proved to be highly effective. Selected National Spiritual Assemblies were asked to assess how much they could contribute toward the acquisition and improvement of property and equipment by other national communities over the period of the current Plan. On the basis of their estimates, the House of Justice called upon them to assist communities in various countries as specific needs came to its attention.

During the recently concluded Five Year Plan, 37 National Spiritual Assemblies participated as donors of a total exceeding US$2,000,000 to national Bahá’í communities in all parts of the world. These funds were used to meet a variety of needs: the acquisition of land and buildings for national and local Bahá’í Centres and for future Temple sites, renovation of Bahá’í buildings damaged through warfare, and the purchase of office equipment necessary for the efficient functioning of Bahá’í administrative institutions. Beyond that, the bonds of unity between geographically distant national communities have been strengthened, and the worldwide solidarity of the believers enhanced.

Your National Spiritual Assembly is one of 42 now being invited to participate in the international financial collaboration programme for the new Five Year Plan. You have been selected because the House of Justice believes you are in a position to assist other national communities which have not been endowed materially to the same extent. We would therefore appreciate receiving from you by 30 September 2006 an estimate of the amount you can offer as financial collaboration during this Five Year Plan. In this regard, it would be helpful if you could provide a breakdown of the total sum you can make available, indicating how much you believe you can provide each year. To assist you in making your determination of the amount you can contribute for this purpose, we have been asked to inform you that the House of Justice anticipates that at least US$2,500,000 will be required to meet the financial collaboration goals to be assigned during the current Plan.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]