(God speaks again)

New keys

to

the Book of Revelation

By

Ruth J. Moffett

“O thou who art waiting, tarry no longer, for He is come.  Behold His Tabernacle and His Glory dwelling therein.  It is the ancient Glory with a new Manifestation.”—Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’í Publishing Trust of India

Post Box 19, New Delhi 110001, India

© National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of India

1st Edition 1977

2nd Edition 1980

3rd edition ?

Printed at Skylark Printers, New Delhi—110055

This volume is dedicated to

‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Center of the Covenant and interpreter of the word of God, in grateful appreciation for the keys of truth, for the unerring guidance, the loving solace, the revivifying encouragement, the unswerving justice rendered to the millions, who, like the author, amid the vexing problems of life, find themselves irresistibly drawn by ‘Abdu'l-Bahá to the Glory of God in this New Day.

Words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about the Holy Bible

During the visit of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the City Temple in London, England, in 1911, He wrote in the large Bible, used by generations of clergymen, the following:

This book is the Holy Book of God and of celestial Inspiration.  It is the Bible of Salvation, the Noble Gospel.  It is the mystery of the Kingdom and its light.  It is the Divine Bounty, the sign of the guidance of God.

Here are just two of His further references:

Thou hast written that thou lovest the Bible.  Undoubtedly, the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful should know the value of the Bible, for they are the ones who have discovered its real significances and have become cognizant of the hidden mystery of the Holy Book.

I beg of God through the confirmations and assistance of the True One thou mayest show the utmost eloquence, fluency, ability and skill in teaching the real significances of the Bible.  Turn toward the Kingdom of Abhá and seek the bounty of the Holy Spirit.  Loosen the tongue and the confirmation of the Spirit shall reach thee.

Acknowledgements

The encouragement of many has made this book possible.  The author wishes to express great gratitude and appreciation to Shoghi Effendi, beloved Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, for his profound wisdom and his answers to many perplexing questions; to Martha Root for the inspiration she gave the author to undertake this arduous work; to Dorothy Baker for her far-sighted and continuous encouragement; to Robert Lee Moffett, F. St. George Spendlove and to many others who have assisted in this great task; also gratitude to the countless others, who in lectures and classes and seminars have shown deep interest and who have urged that this book be made available to all those interested in building a nobler humanity and a “new heaven and a new earth”.

Contents

Introduction..	.	xiii

Anticipatory preface..	.	xix

The Song Celestial..	.	xxiii

1	The voice of God—one like unto the Son of Man..	.	1

2	The vision brightens—message to the four churches..	.	8

3	The new name—the promise to Christianity..	.	14

4	The glorious throne—a shining rainbow..	.	17

5	The mighty book sealed with seven seals—the glorious throne appears..	.	22

6	The lamb—opening the seven seals..	.	26

7	Seal of the living God—sealing 144,000 of the servants..	.	37

8	Seven trumpets—the twelve Imams.	.	41

9	The seven angels—locusts like scorpions.	.	48

10	A little book opened—a new dimension of time.	.	53

11	The two witnesses—four and twenty elders.	.	59

12	The woman—the great red dragon.	.	68

13	Two strange beasts 666—the letters of the living.	.	74

14	The time of harvest—the angels and the sickles.	.	81

15	Seven golden vials—the sea of glass mingled with fire.	.	89

16	Armageddon—the great earthquake.	.	93

17	The siren—Babylon the great.	.	108

18	No more at all—the earth shall shine with his glory.	.	114

19	The light of the world—King of kings—Lord of lords.	.	119

20	A new dimension—the thousand years.	.	130

21	The city of God—twelve foundation stones.	.	138

22	Power of the Holy Spirit—new heaven and new earth.	.	152

23	Prophecies fulfilled by the advent of Jesus Christ.	.	160

24	The promised one—the second coming of the Christ Spirit.	.	162

25	A brief history of the Bahá’í Faith.	.	168

Historic commentary.	.	172

26	Connected topical references.	.	175

27	Index summary of the Book of Revelation for study.	.	182

Important dates relating directly and indirectly to the Holy Land.	.	189

Bibliography.	.	196

Maps of the travels of the Báb and the exiles of Bahá’u’lláh.	.	200

Introduction

A climactic minute, a day, a year, an age, a cycle, all have just passed into eternity!  The Book of Revelation records this rare moment in history, as revealed by Jesus Christ.  The Master Key to this awe-inspiring Revelation is given by Bahá’u’lláh, the Prophet of God for the New Age.  It is explained by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, His duly appointed and recorded Interpreter.  The author has taken this master key to open the doors of insight that the reader may thereby clearly apprehend in his soul the vital significance of this auspicious moment in the spiritual history of mankind; that he may confidently cross, with divine authority, the bridge of understanding from the vague and misty yesterday into the Golden Age of tomorrow.

“The world needs a new Isaiah or a John!” said a columnist in the New York Times.  An historian said, “Never before has there been a period in human history when it was so necessary that a Divine Plan for mankind be revealed, that the greater realities be made plain, and that the innate purpose and the next steps in the progress of humanity become known.”

The Book of Revelation is full of thrilling highlights and shadows, a symbolic picture of expanding horizons of Truth, of the fulfilment of prophecies of all ages, of the culmination of a great cycle.  It points to the future stages of man’s unfoldment.  Here is a spiritual bridge from yesterday to tomorrow built by Jesus Christ.

This is a book of sublime Revelation, which to many is an enigma.  It is one of the most profound and important books of Sacred Writings, possessing most beautiful and extraordinary literary form, a clear vision and spiritual power.

The Book of Revelation of St John, the Psalms and the Book of Ruth are considered by scholars to be the masterpieces of all literature.  Despite the greatness of the works of Shakespeare and others, these particular books have added spiritual values.  However, much of their value depends upon their interpretation, as is true of all Sacred Writings.

It is well to understand first the seven different methods that have been used to interpret Sacred Writings so that we may better comprehend the many different expositions of this remarkable book of revelation.

1.  The “Early Christian”—historical method

This approach holds that the Book of Revelation has no message except for those who first received it, and that it was written primarily for the encouragement and edification of the early Christians.  This method is therefore literal and limited to the conditions of the early Christian Church.

2.  The ‘Holy Roman Empire” method

This method relates to the events in the history of the Roman Empire, and attaches undue emphasis to the Holy Roman Empire and to the countries under its dominion.  Its only strong point is that it partially avoids literal interpretations.

3.  The Futurist method

This method accepts all of the Book as unfulfilled events, to be fulfilled in the future after the Second Coming of Christ and the “millennial rule of His saints”.  This interpretation is obviously inadequate as many of the events are already fulfilled.

4.  The Preterist method

“Preter” means past.  The Preterists’ belief is opposite to that of the Futurists.  They look backward believing that all of the events of the Book are fulfilled, thus making its message inapplicable to the events of this day.

5.  The Philosophical method

This method is completely divorced from the historical background and is expressed in terms of philosophical, symbolic, psychological and astrological symbols.  It looks upon the Book as a discussion about the forces that underlie an event, but denies the event.  It refers to all men of all ages and to the symbols as applying to any or all periods of time.  The objection is that this method removes the Book of Revelation too far from the definite times stated therein, admits of no specific prophecies of specific events, and denies the value of all prophecy.

6.  The Historical—Symbolic method

This method combines the historic and symbolic aspects, and at the same time attempts to relate them to the affairs of this Day.  Most of these attempts cannot be right as there are many conflicting interpretations.  “Truth is never contradictory, though we may see different facets of the Crystal of Truth, they do not disagree.”  This method, therefore, is not satisfactory.

7.  The Authoritative—Authentic method

This is the only remaining method left for our consideration.  It relates the Past, the Present and the Future with clarity.  This method recognizes the “Keys” as given not by the author but by One who has established all the proofs and evidences of His station as a Prophet or Voice of God speaking to mankind, and Who has recorded them with His Own Pen.  The recognition of the “Keys” as originating from a Divine Source, eliminates controversy and establishes unity, harmony and clear understanding, opens the door of inner significances and thus preserves the Truth.  This is the only method that is authoritative and authentic, clear and satisfactory.

Although the other methods of interpretation are not denied nor belittled, the reader is asked to sincerely consider the Authoritative-Authentic Method, using THE MASTER KEY, which is given by One Who is come as the Revelator, the World Educator, the Manifestation or Voice of God, speaking to mankind for this Day, for “God Speaks Again”.

The Book of Revelation is to the religious systems of today somewhat like the Old Testament prophecies were to the Jews of yesterday, clouded with challenging mystery and obscurity.  What could be more strange to the Jews than the teaching that a divine child should be born of a poor virgin, and that a person despised and numbered among the malefactors should be established on the throne of David forever?  Yet the pious Jew looked into the Holy Book with reverence and with the eye of patient expectation, awaiting the triumph of Israel.

The Book of Revelation is the stated Revelation of Jesus Christ, the Divine Revelator, and not the Revelation of St John.  No human being has been able to open the seals of the entire book.  Therefore, only a proven Prophet of God like Jesus could give the divinely authoritative Keys.  Only as He leaves

His Message written, signed and sealed by Himself can the Keys contained therein be truly authentic.  If the Keys are applied and they do not open the seals, one can well say that they are not the right Keys.  If they are sincerely applied and they do open the locks, one must admit that they are the right Keys.  The test of the validity of any key is:  “Does it open the Lock?”  Sometimes a certain key may open a certain lock, but nothing more.  It takes the Master Key to open all the doors, or seals.  The Master Key can be given only by the proven Prophet or Messenger of God.  Bahá’u’lláh, “The Glory of God” has appeared as the latest Messenger as foretold by Jesus, the Divine Author of the awe-inspiring Book of Revelation given for all Faiths.  Symbols “enable one to see the unseeable, to paint the unpaintable, and to express the inexpressible” when they are rightly understood.

Slowly the veil of the twilight cycle of the past lifts, and the Sun of Glory brings the dawn of a New Day.  Innumerable proofs will be considered later to show that the splendour of that Glory shines through Bahá’u’lláh, God’s latest Messenger.  It will be shown that Bahá’u’lláh has come to regenerate and unite mankind in very deed and truth, to gather them all to the one table of His bounty, and to lift all mankind to a loftier stage in his endless progress and unfoldment.  May we, with open mind and heart, apply this Master Key to ascertain if it opens this remarkable sealed book—the Book of Revelation.  Bahá’u’lláh has declared:

All the signs have been revealed; every prophetic allusion hath been manifested.  Whatever hath been enshrined in all the Scriptures of the past hath been made evident.  To doubt and hesitate is no more possible ….  Time is pressing.  The Divine Charger is impatient, and can tarry no longer.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, while discoursing on understanding prophecy and specifying the importance of the Book of Revelation:

Consequently, be engaged in perusing St John’s Revelation; all these signs are spoken of in that vision.  Thou shalt soon behold things still greater than this.

The reader should understand that this book is not an interpretation by the author.  It is an explanation based on Keys given by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as explained by Shoghi Effendi, the appointed interpreter, to the author.  This helps in our understanding of this very important Book of Revelation revealed by Jesus Christ.

These Keys presented unlock not only our Christian Bible but other Sacred Books as well, to a clearer understanding and deeper appreciation.  May this book enable the reader to disregard fallible human interpretation and to turn more and more steadfastly to the Revealed Word.  This Word is the indispensable guide that is critically needed in this dark period of increasing confusion and chaos, and thus gain the light of spiritual understanding, truth and illumination.

The Master Key opens the door to all Scriptures.

This is the truth and what truth can be greater than that announced by the Revelation of St John the Divine?

He [Bahá’u’lláh] is Alpha and Omega.  He is the One that will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life and bestow upon the sick the remedy of true salvation.  He who such grace aideth is verily he that receiveth the most glorious heritage from the Prophets of God and His holy ones.

The correct interpretation of the Book of Revelation is a most powerful bridge of understanding into the new cycle.

“The Book of Revelation is a very important book and very important in teaching the interpretation of Biblical passages to Christians,” wrote Shoghi Effendi Rabbání.  He stated that the Book of Revelation is the Master Bridge revealed by Jesus Christ for the followers of all religions, leading to the Kingdom of God upon the earth.  This Master Key is sincerely presented after many years of research by the author, for the benefit of those eager to perceive the prophetic beacon light of truth, which has gleamed throughout the centuries.  May this light inspire you to assist it to shine brightly in this Day.  Let us pray that souls may arise with the fire of the love of God in their hearts to become the servants of God and the quickeners of mankind, that they will usher in the day of peace and progress and unity upon the earth!  The King James version is used as that is closest in spirit to the original Aramaic language which Jesus used in His Day.  We urge prayerful approach to a rereading of this entire book—that all may obtain more of the light of understanding.

Verily, He (Jesus) said:  ‘Come ye after Me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.’  In this day, however, We say:  ‘Come ye after Me, that We may make you to become quickeners of mankind.’

Lo!  This is the Day of Grace!  Come ye that I may make you kings of the realm of My Kingdom.  If ye obey Me you will see that which We have promised you

and I will make you the friends of My Soul in the realm of My Greatness and the Companions of My Perfection in the heaven of My Might forever.

That which is pre-eminent above all other gifts, is incorruptible in nature, and pertaineth to God Himself, is the gift of Divine Revelation.  Every bounty conferred by the Creator upon man, be it material or spiritual, is subservient unto this.  It is, in its essence, and will ever so remain, the Bread which cometh down from Heaven.  It is God’s supreme testimony, the clearest evidence of His truth, the sign of His consummate bounty, the token of His all-encompassing mercy, the proof of His most loving providence, the symbol of His most perfect grace.  He hath, indeed, partaken of this highest gift of God who hath recognized His Manifestation in this Day.

Anticipatory preface

A train of seven camels moved rhythmically along the white sands of the Mediterranean Sea in the little fishing village of Haifa.  The softly lapping waves creaming over their tired feet brought relief in the hot tropical sun.  The camel driver humbly prostrated himself on the shining sands in gratitude to God for having enabled him to enter the Holy Land and to worship on the Mountain of God—Mount Carmel.

A young lad by the name of John, son of Zebedee, the well-to-do fisherman, said to the weary traveller, “Have you seen Him, Jesus the Son of Man?  O Sir!  You must see Him!  He is the great Healer!  He is the Light of the World!”

This was the same John who, with his brother James, answered the call of Jesus.  It was he who was miraculously delivered from a cauldron of boiling oil in Rome, after the crucifixion of his beloved Master, and later at an advanced age was sent to the penal island of Patmos to work in the mines.

John is generally believed to have been younger than his brother James.  His life may be divided into three periods:

1)	Before his call to discipleship he no doubt lived with his parents in or near Bethsaida, and little is known of him.  When the voice of John the Baptist was heard in the wilderness of Judea and the multitudes flocked to hear him, the sons of Zebedee were among the number and young John eagerly listened.

2)	Then a greater One than John the Baptist arose.  Jesus the Christ.  Believers turned to Him.  Peter, James and John were within the innermost circle of our Lord’s followers.  John enjoyed the worthy distinction of being called the “beloved disciple” who witnessed the crucifixion and transfiguration and was with Jesus during His agony.  John was the first of the disciples to recognize Jesus after His Resurrection, and his zeal was unwearied, as with Peter he spread the teachings of Jesus.  Fifteen years after Paul’s first visit to Jerusalem, John was there at the settlement of the great questions agitating the church, and his position and influence were

those of one who “seemed to be a pillar”.

3)	The traditions of a later age connect him with Ephesus after his departure from Jerusalem.  It is held that the Seven Asian Churches were his special charges, and that he had much to do in saving them from “soul-destroying error”.  All of the other disciples had experienced violent martyrdom, and because of his failure to conform to the command of Emperor-worship, John was banished to the island of Patmos.  There, as a prisoner, he laboured in the mines at an extremely old age, and received from Jesus the remarkable Revelation that closes the New Testament.  After seeing the mission of Jesus extended from Palestine westward to Italy and Gaul, he passed away at a great age, leaving his great heritage as a warning and a guide for all mankind.

Picture this elderly prisoner with the flowing beard, radiant countenance and purity of heart, sitting on a rock at the mouth of a cave on the lonely barren penal island of Patmos in the Aegean Sea, receiving and writing one of the greatest messages thus far revealed to man.  John, the beloved disciple, was perhaps the only soul in the entire world with the understanding mind, profundity, purity of heart, devotion of spirit and love of Jesus, who had the spiritual capacity to receive such a great and divine communication.  Rapidly and prayerfully he wrote as Jesus unfolded this great symbolic and amazing historic Revelation and commanded him to write what he saw and heard of the “things that must shortly come to pass ….”

John had already chronicled the prophecies of Jesus, that He would come in the Glory of the Father; “And I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever.”  “And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe.”

The following pages are an explanation of this great Revelation of Jesus Christ as recorded by John in the King James version, the Keys of which are given not by the author but by the Comforter the Manifestation of God for this age.  Bahá’u’lláh has appointed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Moon reflecting His Light, as the Interpreter of His word including these Keys, lifting them above human interpretation and giving them divine authority and authenticity.

It is the hope of the author to present here a clearer understanding of the integrating and disintegrating forces sweeping the world today; the assurance of continuous world progress toward unity and peace, a new spiritual vision, a new perspective on life; and, THROUGH THE MASTER KEY REVEALED BY BAHÁ’U’LLÁH, A SHINING RAY OF HOPE FOR EVERY SOUL UPON THIS PLANET!

One should earnestly seek in the Ocean of Truth for the pearls of greatest price.

My holy, My divinely ordained Revelation may be likened unto an ocean in whose depths are concealed innumerable pearls of great price, of surpassing lustre.  It is the duty of every seeker to bestir himself and strive to attain the shores of this ocean, so that he may, in proportion to the eagerness of his search and the efforts he hath exerted, partake of such benefits as have been pre-ordained in God’s irrevocable and hidden Tablets.

The Song Celestial

God Speaks:

Each Day is Judgement Day; but comes a Day
Of Days when I Myself in Power rise
Amongst the dead and open ready eyes
Unto My Glory.

In the atmosphere
Of faith in My past, Prophets those have died
To self, the world and all but Me beside.

Hast thou not heard?  “Those who in Christ are dead
Shall meet Him in the air.”

These nothing fear
For they shall know Him when He doth appear,
No matter what His Name or Birth or Nation;
No matter what may be His earthly station,
For from the sea of Names they long have fled.
They know Him by the shining of His Light,
As those whose eyes are open see the bright
And cloudless sun; for the benign bestowing
Of His great bounties, like the sunlight flowing,
Declare Him.  He hath Names unto the knowing.
Their spirits meet Him, their long-promised One:
With man’s interpretations they have done;
Their longing hearts in Certitude find rest;
They recognize My Song and seek My Nest.

—by Howard Colby Ives

1
The voice of God
—one like unto the Son of Man

“Behold I stand at the door, and knock ….”

The curtain rises on the greatest drama in all history.

This is “The Revelation of Jesus Christ”, the clarion call that has rung down through the centuries.  It is established that this Book of Revelation was given by Jesus to John:  ‘to show unto his servants the things which must shortly come to pass ….’  Most scholars state that the Book was received and recorded by John in CE 96 on the Island of Patmos.  John was commanded by Jesus to send this message to the “seven churches which are in Asia” [v. 11].  That is to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamos, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea, the first little Christian missions in what is now Western Turkey.  These “churches” in the authoritative authentic interpretation refer not only to their early missions, but to the seven great divinely revealed religious systems of the past in the Adamic Cycle, Whose Founders have shed increasing splendour on the Universal Revelation for the New Day.

It has been stated by the distinguished scholar, Shoghi Effendi Rabbání, that:

The successive Founders of all past Religions Who, from time immemorial, have shed, with ever-increasing intensity, the splendour of one common Revelation at the various stages which have marked the advance of mankind towards maturity may thus, in a sense, be regarded as preliminary Manifestations, anticipating and paving the way for the advent of that Day of Days when the whole earth will have fructified and the tree of humanity will have yielded its destined fruit.

These great divinely-revealed religious systems of the past Cycle still existing today are Sabeanism, Hinduism, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, Christianity and Islám.  The respective

Founders of these Systems were possibly Enoch; as believed by some of the Sabeans but not fully established, Krishna, Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus the Christ and Muḥammad.  In this new cycle, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh were the Founders of the Bábí Faith and the Bahá’í Faith, respectively.

It is also important to know the overall pattern including the time and place of the appearances of these Prophets, that we may better comprehend this great symbolic message of Jesus as revealed in the Book of Revelation.  According to our best scholars, Krishna appeared in India sometime between 3,000 and 2,000 BC; the birth of Jesus occurred in Palestine about 5 or 4 BC.  Muḥammad’s advent was in Arabia in CE 622.  The Báb was born in Shíráz, Persia, in 1819 and declared His Mission in 1844.  Bahá’u’lláh was born in Ṭihrán, Persia, in 1817 and made the declaration of His Station and Mission in Baghdád, ‘Iráq in 1863.  Each Founder brought the Laws and the Word of God for the Age in which He appeared, and each One was the Star, or Angel, of His Church, or System.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the son of Bahá’u’lláh, explains:

That is to say, the Manifestation of God is the real divine temple and Collective Centre of which the outer church is but a symbol.

… Recall the statement of Jesus Christ in the Gospel.  Addressing Peter, He said, ‘Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church.’  It is evident, therefore, that the church of God is the law of God and that the actual edifice is but one symbol thereof.  For the law of God is a collective centre which unites various peoples, native lands, tongues and opinions.  All find shelter in its protection and become attracted by it.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, explains in the following powerful words some of the symbolism used by Jesus.

Church—The collective centre

The purport of this is that the church is a collective centre.  Temples are symbols of the reality and divinity of God—the collective centre of mankind. …  Therefore, it is evident that the church is a collective centre for mankind.  For this reason there have been churches and temples in all the divine religions; but the real Collective Centres are the Manifestations of God, of Whom the church or temple is a symbol and expression.  That is to say, the Manifestation of God is the real divine temple and Collective

Centre of which the outer church is but a symbol.

Therefore, it is shown that the divine Manifestations, the holy Mouthpieces of God, are the Collective Centres of God.  These heavenly Messengers are the real Shepherds of humanity, for whenever They appear in the world They unite the scattered sheep.  The Collective Centre has always appeared in the Orient.  Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, Muḥammad were Collective Centres of Their day and time, and all arose in the East.  Today Bahá’u’lláh is the Collective Centre of unity for all mankind, and the splendour of His light has likewise dawned from the East.

Each Divine Revelator is the Star of Guidance and the Mirror reflecting the light by which we learn to know God.  Minds are powerless to comprehend God and souls are unable to perceive His Exalted Essence.

Thus all that the human reality knows, discovers, and understands of the names, attributes, and perfections of God refers to these holy Manifestations ….

These sanctified Mirrors, these Day-springs of ancient glory are one and all the Exponents on earth of Him Who is the central Orb of the universe, its Essence and ultimate Purpose.  From Him proceed their knowledge and power; from Him is derived their sovereignty.  The beauty of their countenance is but a reflection of His image, and their revelation a sign of His deathless glory.  They are the Treasuries of divine knowledge, and the Repositories of celestial wisdom.  Through them is transmitted a grace that is infinite, and by them is revealed the light that can never fade.

In our immaturity we have failed to appreciate Their stations.  Today we are beginning to comprehend the greatness of Their mission and that each One is the Collective Centre of His Age.

Jesus declared that He “is the faithful witness” [v. 5].  The witness of whom?  Of the One Who is to come, as each Prophet before Him has been.  In the same verse, He stated that he “is the first begotten of the dead.”  This means that He is the One Who came to raise mankind out of spiritual deadness.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that “Those souls who are not vivified and attracted by the Holy Spirit, are accounted among the dead, because their souls are deprived of the breath of the Holy Spirit, and these persons after physical death are in a certain condition,

having feeling and discernment in their environment, but in comparison with the pure souls who have been vivified by the Holy Spirit, they are as dead and deprived.”  This idea of “deadness” is emphasized many times through all Sacred Writings.  It is one of the Keys to the Book of Revelation.

“… Unto Him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in His own blood.” [v. 5]  His blood, here, symbolically, is the great spiritual Life Force with which Jesus bathed all that turned unto Him.  We have only to turn the pages of history to see the upliftment that came to all mankind as the result of His washing us in His “blood”, or spiritual Life Force.  The Revelation continues:  “and his Father; to him [be] glory and dominion for ever and ever.  Amen.  Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they [also] which pierced him:  and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him.  Even so, Amen.  I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and was, and which is to come, the Almighty.  I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle which is called Patmos, for the Word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.” [v. 6–9]

Bahá’u’lláh states:

O kings of Christendom!  Heard ye not the saying of Jesus, the Spirit of God, ‘I go away, and come again unto you?’  Wherefore, then, did ye fail, when He did come again unto you in the clouds of heaven, to draw nigh unto Him, that ye might behold His face, and be of them that attained His Presence?

This is the Christ Who is speaking:  “He was” and He Himself said that He was of the “Order of Melchizedek”, and the “is to come”, could be no other than the Divine Revelator for this new cycle.  Bahá’u’lláh declares:

The Revelation which … hath been acclaimed as the Purpose and Promise of all the Prophets of God, and the most cherished Desire of His Messengers, hath now, by virtue of the pervasive Will of the Almighty and at His irresistible bidding, been revealed unto men.  The advent of such a Revelation hath been heralded in all the sacred Scriptures.

The prophetic statement of Jesus is thus fulfilled.

I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet, saying, ‘I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last:  and what thou seest, write in a book, and

send [it] unto the seven churches ….’” [v. 10–11]  “And I turned to see the voice that spake with me.  And being turned, I saw seven golden candle-sticks; and in the midst of the seven candlesticks [one] like unto the Son of man ….  His head and (his) hairs [were] white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes [were] as a flame of fire.” [v. 12–14]

Jesus Christ is called the “Son of Man”.  Here John states:  “One like unto the Son of man” or “like unto” Jesus Christ.  Jesus is revealing this very great message in CE 96 “of things which must shortly come to pass”.  Muḥammad, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh have come since that time, and many references and authorities acclaim Bahá’u’lláh as the One “like unto” Jesus Christ!  For example, one reference states that Bahá’u’lláh is the Spirit of “Jesus Christ returned in the Glory of the Father”.  Therefore, it is Bahá’u’lláh Who is “like unto” Jesus Christ and Who stands amidst the seven golden candlesticks.  In Rev. 1:20, we read that the seven golden candlesticks are the seven churches or, as has been stated, the seven Divinely-revealed religious systems.

“His head and [his] hairs [were] white like wool, as white as snow ….” [v. 14]  Notice how the whiteness is re-emphasized.  This Key is very important.  After the horrible persecutions of the Báb and His followers, Bahá’u’lláh was, in 1852, put in chains and thrown into the Black Pit, in Ṭihrán, with one hundred and fifty criminals.  The dungeon was without fresh air or light, one of the most horrible and unspeakably foul places on earth.  Words cannot describe its loathsomeness and the suffering of the prisoners.  The author was told the following story by the sister of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa, Israel.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the little son of Bahá’u’lláh, then less than nine years old, was extremely troubled about his Father’s having been put into that awesome, horrible pit.  One day he walked right past the sentry and guards, just as they were bringing Bahá’u’lláh up, chained to two other prisoners.  The chains were so heavy that He bore their marks the rest of His life.  Little ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was horrified and heart-broken to see that his Father’s hair, in this very short time and though He was only 35 years old, had turned “white like wool, white as snow”.  Having white hair is considered a disgrace among Orientals.  Therefore, they dye their hair when it turns white or grey.  Later, when exiled from Persia, the family dyed Bahá’u’lláh’s hair to cover the disgrace so called.  This is one of the many signs or

proofs to the Christian World that Bahá’u’lláh is the One that Jesus foretold, Who is “like unto the Son of man standing among the seven golden candlesticks.”  “His head and His hairs were white like wool, as white as snow.”  Another sign given by Jesus was thus fulfilled, in addition to the supreme proof of the power and wisdom of Jesus, “By their fruits shall ye know Them.”  The words of Bahá’u’lláh, His works and their power to transform the lives and characters of men are sufficient proof.

“… and his eyes [were] as a flame of fire.” [v. 14]  There is no photograph of any Prophet of God before Bahá’u’lláh.  Photography was discovered in 1838 by Daguerre during the lifetime of Bahá’u’lláh, and only one photograph was taken of Bahá’u’lláh.  This is preserved in the sacred archives in Haifa, Israel.  Those who have been privileged to see it usually say:  “It is indescribable, but His eyes are like a flame of fire!”  Almost all of the pilgrims have described it in this way.  How could one describe that picture of the visible link between the outer and the inner, the physical and the spiritual, the human and the divine?  Even the photograph seems to express indescribable majesty, grandeur and power, interpenetrated with tender understanding love and compassion!  Here are the very lips from which poured forth the Word of God, the Laws for the new World Order, and the Plans for a new Creation!  Here is the very form through which the Spirit of God became manifest, the face of One Who had given Life to a dead world!  Here are the “eyes like a flame of fire” that pierce the very soul!  It seems as though the Almighty is looking through His eyes, and, through our eyes, into the inner heart of our being!  A mere human being is overwhelmed by it!  Slowly we become aware that another of the signs foretold by Jesus has been fulfilled.

“And his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace ….” [v. 15]  “Feet” usually symbolizes understanding and “molten brass” is one of the most blinding of metals, thus indicating the splendours of His Light.  “… and his voice as the sound of many waters.” [v. 15]  In the heavenly books, the divine counsels and commands have been compared to water.  So, in the Qur’án, it is said, “… and pure water we send down from Heaven.”  In all the sacred writings, “waters” usually refer to spiritual knowledge.  Although Jesus had all knowledge and all power, He said, “I have yet many things to say unto you,

but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when He the Spirit of Truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth.”  Few people could read or write at the time of Jesus.  Therefore, little recorded knowledge was needed.  However, much more information is needed today because people are better educated and have a greater understanding of spiritual matters.  Bahá’u’lláh’s Voice and Pen are as “The sound of many waters”, which, it is recorded, bring a fresh outpouring of knowledge in a veritable deluge for mankind.

“And he had in his right hand seven stars ….” [v. 16]  The right hand is usually known as the hand of power.  In verse 20, it is stated that, “The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches.”  “Bahá’u’lláh holds the seven Revelators in His right hand, unitedly, exalting Them and lifting the essence of Their teachings into the great New Cycle—The Kingdom of the Father upon the Earth.”

“… and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword:” [v. 16] which is the sword of Truth; “and his countenance [was] as the sun shineth in his strength” [v. 16], that is, at the time of its zenith.  “I [am] he that liveth, and was dead; and behold, I am alive for evermore … and have the keys of hell and of death.” [v. 18]  What is hell?  Is it a place of fire and brimstone with a devil and his pitchfork frying his victims over the flames?  No!  Bahá’u’lláh explains that hell is remoteness from God and heaven is nearness to God.  Therefore, the Key to the understanding of heaven and hell is the Word of God.  As we turn and apply it to our lives, or turn away and fail to live it, we have heaven or hell here and now.  Jesus foretold that the One like unto the Son of Man would come in the Glory of the Father and bring the Word of God for the New Day.  “… Heaven is the condition of spiritual life, and Hell that of spiritual death.”  Jesus, in verses 19 and 20, commands John to write the things he has seen, the things that are, and the things that are to be hereafter.  Jesus wanted to ensure that His prophetic Revelation would enable man to diffuse the great glad tidings of Christ’s Spirit, and thus hasten the advent of that blessed day when God’s Will shall be done on Earth as it is in Heaven.

2
The vision brightens
—message to the four churches

“He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the Churches.”

The churches appear.

The seven churches are usually considered to be the first mission churches in Western Turkey ministered to by John.  However, these shortly became ruins and are not sufficiently important to have addressed to them such a great Revelation as we find in the forthcoming chapters.  Therefore, it is obvious that a larger more universal significance is meant, for which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has given the Key.

It is interesting to study the messages to the seven churches that Jesus commanded John to send “… unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.”  In the Greek language the names of these churches have symbolic meanings that also help us to understand the message revealed for each.

Ephesus	—	Pure

Smyrna	—	Persecuted

Pergamos	—	Popular

Thyatira	—	Sacrifice

Sardis	—	Lack of Zeal

Philadelphia	—	Brotherly Love

Laodicea	—	Lukewarm

To avoid confusion, some people call these messages “seven little poems”, each one being divided into seven parts.  The first part is the salutation to the church and the identification of the One speaking; the second part is that for which the church is commended; the third is that for which it is condemned; the

fourth is the punishment for the evil for which it is condemned; the fifth is the reward for the good for which it is commended; the sixth is the promise; and the seventh is what we might call “the refrain”.  Sometimes the promise is the seventh place; following “He that hath an car, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the Churches.”  What churches?  The churches are the religious systems.  What Spirit?  The Spirit of the “angel” or Revelator of each “church”, to Whom the people turn in Their Day, for guidance.

“… These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks.” [v. 1]  “He that holdeth the seven stars in His right hand” is the One like unto Jesus Christ, Bahá’u’lláh, Who commends this church for its works and its patience.  “Nevertheless I have [somewhat] against thee, because thou hast left thy first love.” [v. 4]  This means, as explained in the Bahá’í Writings, that this church has forgotten or turned away from the Truth as revealed by its Prophet in the day and age in which He appeared.  The church has placed a stronger emphasis upon its own understandings than upon the Word of God, which is the Truth.

That church is, however, is commended for hating “… the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.” [v. 6]  This is strong language for a Prophet of God to use, but He does not say that He hates the people—only their deeds.  In every age, there are groups of people who rise in active opposition of the Revelator, who are symbolically like the Nicolaitans and who obstruct the progress of His Cause.

In the first message poem, the promise is of greatest importance; “… I will give thee a crown of life.” [v. 10]  This means that which is more than immortality.  It is “eternal life”, which every soul, consciously or unconsciously, is seeking.  As Jesus said, “I am come that they might have life, and that they might have [it] more abundantly.”

In the second message, to the angel of the church of Smyrna, “… These things saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive.” [v. 8]  This refers to Revelation 1:8.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:

Then know that for the dominion of the reality of Christ there is no beginning and there is no end.  Everlastingly that luminous Entity hath been sitting on the throne of might and everlastingly It will have a penetrating dominion over the

worlds of existence.  This dominion is eternal and everlasting and has no abrupt end.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá further explains that this same Luminous Reality is again shining upon the world, through the One like unto the Son of Man (Bahá’u’lláh) Who holds the seven stars in His right hand.  Bahá’u’lláh states, referring to the Christ Spirit, “I am He, Himself, and He is I, Myself.”

The promise is the important part of the second message.  “He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.” [v. 11]  The second death cannot take place until after the first death.  Therefore, the first death does not refer to the death of the body, as we have thought, but to our failure to become alive by the Spirit and teachings of Jesus.  Resurrection is the birth of the individual to spiritual life, through the gift of the Holy Spirit bestowed by the Manifestation of God.  Jesus said, “Ye must be born again.”  The first birth is the turning to, or the recognition of the Spirit of God in Jesus Christ; and the second birth means turning, in recognition of the same Spirit, to the One through Whom God is speaking in this Day—Bahá’u’lláh.  Likewise, the “second death” means failing to turn to Him.  The promise is that “he that over-cometh” his unbelief will not be hurt or suffer the “second death”, but will turn to that Great One, Who has brought Life to mankind for this Day.

… mankind is regenerated and quickened with a new birth.  This is the second birth mentioned in all the heavenly Books.  Its accomplishment is through the baptism of the Holy Spirit.

When the holy, divine Manifestations or Prophets appear in the world, a cycle of radiance, an age of mercy dawns.  Everything is renewed.

I render Thee thanks, therefore, and extol Thee, in the name of all them that are dear to Thee, for that Thou hast caused them to be born again, by reason of the living waters which have flowed down out of the mouth of Thy Will.

Every one of the important souls must arise, blowing over all parts of America the breath of life, conferring upon the people a new spirit, baptizing them with the fire of the love of God, the water of life, and the breaths of the Holy Spirit so that the second birth may become realized.  For it is written in the Gospel:  ‘That which is born of the flesh is

flesh; and that which is born of the spirit is spirit’.

Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is endowed with such potency as can instil a new life into every human frame. …  All the wondrous achievements ye now witness are the direct consequences of the Revelation of this Name.

Therefore, it is clear that the Word of God, revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in this day, releases that quickening, regenerating power which induces the “second birth”.

The third message is addressed to the “angel of the church in Pergamos …  These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges ….” [v. 12]  We find in the first chapter that this is the One like unto the Son of Man, from Whose mouth went a “sharp two-edged sword” and “the sword of Truth”.  This church is condemned “because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam ….” [v. 14]  Balaam is the symbol for idol worship.  People worship idols in this day as much as they did in ancient times when they made a graven image and cast their jewels or their young babies into the red hot arms of the idol.  Balaam today is our love of possessions, of fortune, fame, power, of anything that turns us away from our service to God.  Abraham taught the same lesson.  According to tradition, Abraham’s father was the keeper of the idols in the Temple.  He left little Abraham to care for them, to keep them dusted, to bow before them and to feed them their rice.  One day when the father returned, he was shocked to find all the smaller idols on the floor, shattered into many pieces.  He angrily asked, “Who did this?”  Abraham pointed to the big idol, in whose hands was a big mallet.  “How could he shatter the little idols when he cannot move, speak, nor eat his rice?”  Little Abraham said, “Father, why do you worship an idol that can neither move, speak nor eat his rice?”  “Worship God!”  Mankind after 4,000 years is still worshipping idols of his own vain imaginings.

The promise given to the church of Pergamos is “… To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna ….” [v. 17]  It is the reality of the things for which we are all striving—when we truly turn towards God, we “eat of the hidden manna” to gain spiritual nourishment and the knowledge of the reality of things.  “… And [I] will give him a white stone, and in the stone a

new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth [it].” [v. 17]

Throughout history we find references to the white stone and sometimes to the new Name on the stone.  Many people have seen the classical picture of the Bridge of Sighs, across the canal between the Doge’s palace and the prison in Venice.  The death cells are below the water level in dank, dark, awesome vaults with no windows—only a door through which the prisoner was thrown.  In the door of this dungeon is a small hole through which a black stone was flung, which meant death.  A white stone, the symbol of life, was cast through the hole in the door if the Doge acquitted the prisoner.  The “new name” upon the White Stone is the Greatest Name of God, revealed by the Messenger of God for the New Age.  It is not chosen by any religion of the past, but is the New Name foretold in Isaiah 62:2, “which the mouth of the Lord shall name”.  The White Stone is the symbol of life and the “Greatest Name” on the symbol of life is the name of God for the New Age.

The fourth message is directed to the church of Thyatira, that is the fourth religious system.  “… These things, saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet [are] like fine brass.”  v. 18.  This church is commended for its works, its charity, its services, but is condemned because “… thou sufferest that woman Jezebel … to teach and to seduce my servants.” [v. 20]  Kings, rulers, and peoples of all kinds, even those “before the altar” have been enticed by the siren of materialism and gold.

The religious system of Thyatira is given a wonderful promise.  “And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations.” [v. 26]  “And I will give him the morning star.” [v. 28]  This was fulfilled in the coming of the Báb as the Divine Morning Star. It was the Báb Who heralded the coming of the Sun of Truth for the New Day.  Zoroaster was the founder of the Zoroastrian religious system that flourished in Persia at the time of Jesus.  What a divine coincidence that the Báb, the Herald of Bahá’u’lláh, was born in Shíráz, in Persia, in 1819, the land of Zoroaster’s birth and near His birthplace.  Thus, the Báb fulfilled the promise:  “I will give him the Morning Star!” [v. 28]  “He [Báb] the ‘Qá’im’ (He Who ariseth) promised to the Shi‘as, the ‘Mihdí’ (One Who is guided) awaited by the Sunnis, the ‘Return of John the Baptist’ expected by the Christ-

ians, the ‘Úshídar Máh’ referred to in the Zoroastrian Scriptures ….”

Thus, we find the Promise, to those that overcome their unbelief, fulfilled through the coming of the Morning Star—the Báb!

3
The new name
—the promise to Christianity

Him that overcometh … I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, [which is] new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God:  and [I will write upon him] my new name.

The curtain rises again with the fifth message addressed to the church in Sardis.  This church is commended because it has kept the name and some have lived the name, but the church is dead.  It is admonished to “Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die:  for I have not found thy works perfect before God.” [v. 2]  This religious system, as have others, has kept the name of the Prophet but it has drifted away from His teachings.  The promise given to this church is:  “He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment ….” [v. 5]  To overcome means to overcome evil, doubts, unbelief, prejudice and fear; and to be clothed in “white raiment” signifies to being clothed in heavenly qualities.  “… I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before My Father, and before his angels.” [v. 5]  This is a very wonderful promise that means the gift of eternal life.  The little poem ends with the short refrain:  “He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.” [v. 6]

The sixth message or poem is addressed to the church of Philadelphia.  The names of all the churches are symbolic and Philadelphia in Greek means “brotherly love”.  Christianity is usually referred to as the religious system of brotherly love.  This church is commended for its works, its faith, its patience, and because it “has not denied my name.”  It is condemned, however, because “… thou hast a little strength ….” [v. 8]  Of all the religious systems in the world, Christianity has been divided into more sects and branches than any

other.  Naturally anything that is much divided becomes weak, and the more it is divided the weaker it becomes.  Jesus knew and foretold this almost two thousand years ago.  Today we see the fulfilment and the need of establishing unity, for therein is strength.  Today we see the slivers of Christianity being united by a new Spirit.

The promise given to this church is the most marvellous of all the promises.  “Him that overcometh I will make a pillar in the temple of my God ….” [v. 12]  A pillar means one of those who are chosen to uphold the New World Order.  “… He shall go no more out ….” [v. 12]  This signifies that when we have found the truth, the Teaching of the Sun of Reality, which is what we have long been seeking, we, of course, will not go out to seek it again.  We have found it!  The promise continues.  “… I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, [which is] New Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God:  and [I will write upon him] my new name.”  v. 12.  How can a new civilization come out of heaven?  Never has there been a civilization like the one rising in this day, where the basic laws, basic principles and an ocean of truth are given by God through the pen of His chosen Revelator, upon which the New Jerusalem, the new world, civilization, is already being established.

The descent of the New Jerusalem denoteth a heavenly Law, that Law which is the guarantor of human happiness and the effulgence of the world of God.

The new name could be only the name of God as revealed by His latest Revelator.  Bahá’u’lláh has stated:  “The potency infused into all created things is the direct consequence of the revelation of this most blessed Name.”  “He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.” [v. 13]

The last of the messages to the seven churches is addressed to the angel of the church of the Laodiceans.  It is condemned because “I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot:  I would that thou wert cold or hot.  So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of My mouth.” [v. 15–16]

This is quite a condemnation.  However, this church is admonished to repent, and we find courage in words that have been

beautifully expressed in poetry, song and painting.  “Behold, I stand at the door and knock:  if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.” [v. 20]  Many times have we heard these words interpreted individualistically and they are beautiful, good and true.  We have longed to open the door, when Jesus or one of the Prophets of God have knocked at the door of our hearts.  How happy we are when we have opened the door from inside!  This verse also has a larger, more universal meaning.  The very word, the very title, “the Báb”, means the door.  He is the door of the New Cycle.  He is the door to “Him whom God shall make manifest”, the World Educator, Bahá’u’lláh, Who was standing at the threshold of the door to usher in the great New World Order and the New Creation.

We have now caught a little glimpse of the loving messages and of the lessons that Jesus commanded John to send to the seven “churches”, the divinely revealed religious systems.  This message or poem also closes with the refrain:  “He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.” [v. 22]  May we, henceforth, listen to the loving message that the Spirit gives, in prophecy of this Great New Day of God.

The following lines express beautifully the changeless Law of Love:

“God Speaks:

For when My Messengers to any age
Bring My new Law, They cancel every page
Writ by the past except the page of love,
For this is writ on Tablets firm as rock
Unchanging, ageless:  and Their hands unlock
With love the door that to My Kingdom leads,
Blest is the soul who Their injunction heeds.”

4
The glorious throne
—a shining rainbow

… behold that which hath been sent down from the Throne on high, and meditate thereon with innocent and sanctified hearts.  Then will the truth of this Cause appear unto you as manifest as the sun in its noon-tide glory.

For two thousand years the searching clergy and scholars have been unable to open this closed chapter and to interpret the signs, except according to their own conceptions.  Jesus revealed the signs, and Bahá’u’lláh has given the Master Key to interpret the signs of this strange book.  In this fourth chapter we find many important locks that need important Keys.  John is lifted up in spirit “… and the first voice which I heard [was] as it were of a trumpet talking with me; which said, Come up hither, and I will show thee things which must be hereafter’.” [v. 1]  Note the emphasis on the word “must” rather than shall.  “… and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and [one] sat on the throne.” [v. 2]  The word “throne” means the station of Prophethood, and even greater, that of the Manifestation.  Jesus said:  “… the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of His glory ….”  In this Day Bahá’u’lláh, the Divine Educator, explains “throne” and “Manifestation” and “the station of Divine Concealment” still further.

Thus, viewed from the standpoint of their oneness and sublime detachment, the attributes of Godhead, Divinity, Supreme Singleness, and Inmost Essence, have been, and are applicable to those Essences of Being, inasmuch as they all abide on the throne of Divine Revelation, and are established upon the seat of Divine Concealment.  Through their appearance the Revelation of God is made manifest, and by their countenance the Beauty of God is revealed.  Thus it is that the accents of God Himself have been heard uttered by these Manifestations of the Divine Being.

The Prophets of God have given many symbolic descriptions of the Promised One sitting upon the throne of the Manifestation in the New Day.  “And He that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone ….” [v. 3]  In ancient times the jasper stone was called the bloodstone, because of its blood-like colour.  All through the Bible we find many references to it, also to “being washed in the blood of Christ.”  The jasper stone symbolizes the Spiritual Life-force that Christ gave for the quickening of the souls of men.  This is the need of all men—to be bathed in that Spiritual Life-force.  Bahá’u’lláh, sitting upon that throne, is again releasing that Spiritual Life-force today for the maturity of mankind.  He also looks like a “sardine stone” that is milk-white and means great purity, without flaw or blemish, like the Spirit of Christ.

“… and [there was] a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like unto an emerald.” [v. 3]  A rainbow results when a white beam of light shines through a prism or water droplet that refracts the white light and breaks it (disperses the light) into a band of seven prismatic colours, called the spectrum.  The spectrum consists of the following colours in order of decreasing wave-lengths:  red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet.  This is the beautiful symbol of the love of God.  The Throne is like a Divine Prism through which the white ray, the Love of God, shines through the successive Prophets to form the rainbow, each giving the ray of light whose “wave-length” is best suited to the capacity of the people in the day and age in which He appears.  This shining rainbow was round about the throne, and shone “like unto an emerald.”  Emeralds are the colour of beautiful fresh young green grass.  This symbolizes that the Love of God, which had been revealed by the seven major Revelators, was again generating a fresh Spiritual Springtime.

“And round about the throne [were] four and twenty seats:  and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.” [v. 4]  In each cycle the guardians, or holy Souls, nearest to the throne were twelve.  Jacob had twelve sons; in the time of Moses there were twelve chiefs; in the time of Jesus there were twelve disciples and in the Dispensation of Muḥammad, there were twelve Imams.  In this sacred Dispensation, the dawning of a new Cycle, the number is doubled to twenty-four “elders” on the seat of discipleship and with the crown or spiritual authority, greater even

than the disciples of old, since none of them had “crowns of gold”.

Regarding the four and twenty elders:  The Master, in a Tablet, stated that they were the Báb, the eighteen Letters of the Living, and five others who would be known in the future.  So far we do not know who these five others are.

These ‘first Letters generated from the Primal Point’, this ‘company of angels arrayed before God on the Day of His coming’, these ‘Repositories of His Mystery’, these ‘Springs that have welled out from the Source of His Revelation’, these first companions who, in the words of the Persian Báyan, ‘enjoy nearest access to God’, these ‘Luminaries that have, from everlasting, bowed down, and will everlastingly continue to bow down, before the Celestial Throne’, and lastly these ‘elders’ mentioned in the Book of Revelation as ‘sitting before God on their seats’, ‘clothed in white raiment’ and wearing on their heads ‘crowns of gold’—these were, ere their dispersal, summoned to the Báb’s presence, Who addressed to them His parting words, entrusted to each a specific task, and assigned to some of them as the proper field of their activities their native provinces.  He enjoined them to observe the utmost caution and moderation in their behaviour, unveiled the loftiness of their rank, and stressed the magnitude of their responsibilities.  He recalled the words addressed by Jesus to His disciples, and emphasized the superlative greatness of the New Day.  He warned them lest by turning back they forfeit the Kingdom of God, and assured them that if they did God’s bidding, God would make them His heirs and spiritual leaders among men.  He hinted at the secret, and announced the approach, of a still mightier Day, and bade them prepare themselves for its advent.

“And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices:  and [there were] seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.” [v. 5]  Always after a new appearance of the Word of God, as revealed by the Revelator, there are storms of opposition, violation of laws and earthquakes of doubt; and the “seven lamps burning before the throne” are the seven Revelators who are referred to in Revelation 1:16, as the seven “stars”.  The seven Spirits of God, we recall, are the seven Founders of these religious systems and their light is still burning

before the throne.  The “seven golden candlesticks” are mentioned in Revelation 1:13 and 20.  It should be remembered that these are the seven divinely revealed religious systems in the Adamic cycle.

“And before the throne [there was] a sea of glass like unto crystal ….” [v. 6]  The sea of glass is the sea of truth, clear as crystal and untainted.  All the Prophets have given the truth, but only little droplets, or rivulets of truth, according to the capacity of mankind to receive it.  Jesus gave a river of truth, Bahá’u’lláh an ocean of Truth.  Jesus, himself, said, “I have many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when he, the Spirit of Truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth ….”  Today the sea of truth, which Jesus foretold, is rapidly spreading over the world “as the waters cover the sea”.  Bahá’u’lláh quotes an Islamic tradition:

Knowledge is twenty and seven letters.  All that the Prophets have revealed are two letters thereof.  No man thus far hath known more than these two letters.  But when the Qá’im shall arise, He will cause the remaining twenty and five letters to be made manifest.

“And … round about the throne, [were] four beasts full of eyes before and behind.  And the first beast [was] like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast [was] like a flying eagle.  And the four beasts had each of them six wings about [him] ….” [v. 6–8]  There have been many strange interpretations of these symbols.  However, the four beasts, or creatures, as explained by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a tablet to a German believer, represent the first four rulers who will arise to spread the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh over the whole world.  They will act as did the good king of India, King Asoka, who organized Buddhism as the state religion in 264 BC, and promulgated it actively throughout Asia.  Another example is Emperor Constantine who spread Christianity throughout Europe.  Beginning with the reign of Constantine, Christianity was not only recognized and tolerated, but became the official religion of the Roman Empire.  What will be the results when four rulers in this day with eyes before and after (foresight, hindsight and insight) use the “six wings” of modern science to spread the Message of Bahá’u’lláh rapidly throughout the world?  Nothing in nature is presently known to have “six wings”.  Does this not indicate that modern science will supply the power and speed of “six wings” to fulfil this amazing prophecy?

The great vision of Daniel, chapter 7, disclosed about 535 BC,

with symbols similar to those in this chapter, explains the rise and fall of the four great succeeding empires.  The vision also tells of the Ancient of Days, “… whose garment [was] white as snow, and the hair of his head like the pure wool:  his throne [was like] the fiery flame, [and] his wheels as burning fire.”  It is historically established that Bahá’u’lláh appeared in the midst of the frightening conditions in the Islámic Empire, and that “His hair turned white like wool” as the snow.  “The cruelties inflicted by My oppressors have bowed Me down, and turned My hair white.”

Daniel foretold that “there was given to him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should serve him:  his dominion [is] an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom [that] which shall not be destroyed.”  This is, of course, a spiritual kingdom that will not pass away because it is based on the Word of God.  “A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him:  thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him:  the judgement was set, and the books were opened.”  This verse refers to the Promised One, Bahá’u’lláh, Who opens the Books and activates a New Creation.  Myriads of people will minister unto him.

How marvellous is the Revelation that Jesus gives us in this chapter.  It reveals the Great Divine Plan for the New Age as expressed by the symbols of the rainbow, the emerald, the four and twenty elders and the beasts with the many eyes and the six wings!

5
The mighty book sealed with seven seals
—the glorious throne appears

The essence of religion is to testify that which the Lord hath revealed, and follow that which He hath ordained in His mighty Book.

John is now lifted in spirit to where he can examine more closely the One upon the Throne.  “And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.” [v. 1]  The right hand is a symbol of the power of “him that sat upon the throne”.  The Throne of Divine Splendour is the Manifestation of God.  The “book” is declared to be the Word of God as revealed by all the Divine Messengers of God, and it has been a prophetically sealed book until the coming of the Promised One.  That which was written on the back of the book, and not sealed, is the Word of God revealed by the Báb heralding the New Age and the Glory of God, Lord of the New Age.

At the time of the great vision of Daniel, the Lord said unto him:  “But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, [even] to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.”  “And [one] said …  How long [shall it be to] the end of these wonders?  And I heard the man … swear by him that liveth forever that [it shall be] for a time, times, and a half; and when he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people, all these [things] shall be finished.”  “And I heard, but I understood not; then said I, O my Lord, what [shall be] the end of these [things]?’  And He said, Go thy way, Daniel:  for the words [are] closed up and sealed till the time of the end.  Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the wicked shall do wickedly:  and none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand’.”

John looked again, “And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?  And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon.” [v.2–3]  John wept much because no one was found worthy to open the book, to read the book, or even to look thereon.  “And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not:  behold, the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.” [v. 5]  There are many explanations about the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David.  It has often been interpreted as referring to Jesus.  He, however, was not of the Root of David, but the descendant of David, while verse five states that Juda was the Root of David.  Jesse, the father of David, of the line of Juda, is the Root of David.  Jesus was not the Lion of the tribe of Juda, but came, in the symbol of sacrifice, as a lamb ordained for slaughter from the foundation of the world.  Further research from many sources confirms this.

It must constantly be kept in mind that the Book of Revelation is the Revelation of Jesus the Christ “to show the things which must shortly come to pass” after CE 96.  The One amidst the “seven golden candlesticks”, the One that “holdeth the seven stars in His right hand”, and the One that sitteth on the throne has been identified, in previous chapters, to be Bahá’u’lláh, Who holds the book in His right hand, Who is of the line of Jesse, the Root of David.  Jesus was descended genealogically, according to Matthew 1:1–16, from Abraham, Isaac, Juda and Jesse, the father of David, through Joseph the husband of Mary the Virgin.  There His genealogical line ends as He left no physical heirs.

It is interesting to note that a second genealogical line of Bahá’u’lláh has been traced back to Abraham, through another Jesse, one of the six sons of Katurah who migrated to Central Asia.  “He derived His descent, on the one hand, from Abraham (the Father of the Faithful) through His wife Katurah, and on the other from Zoroaster, as well as from Yazdigird III, the last King of the Sásáníyún Dynasty.  He was moreover a descendant of Jesse, and belonged, through His father, Mírzá ‘Abbás, better known as Mírzá Buzurg—a nobleman closely associated with the ministerial circles of the Court of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh

—to one of the most ancient and renowned families of Mázindarán.”  He is “… the ‘Rod come forth out of the stem of Jesse’ and the ‘Branch grown out of His roots,’ Who ‘shall be established upon the throne of David,’ Who ‘will come with strong hand,’ Who ‘shall judge among the nations,’ Who ‘shall smite the earth with the rod of His mouth, and with the breath of His lips slay the wicked,’ and Who ‘shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.’”

Thus, we see that it was Bahá’u’lláh Who sat on the Throne with the book in His right hand.  He it was Who “hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.” [v. 5]  Is not Jesus revealing that Bahá’u’lláh is the Lion of the tribe of Juda Who would open the Book?  Then John saw, in the midst of the twenty-four elders and of the four beasts, “a Lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.” [v. 6]  We have always thought that the lamb referred only to Jesus Who was “ordained for slaughter from the foundation of the world”.  However, there are three reasons why this particular lamb could not refer to Jesus.

1.	Jesus is revealing the things “which must be hereafter” in CE 96, sixty–three years after being martyred in CE 33.

2.	Jesus was not the only Prophet Who had a violent martyrdom.  The Báb, the Prophet-Herald of Bahá’u’lláh, also had the station of the Lamb “ordained for slaughter from the foundation of the world”.  Jesus and the Báb were the only Ones Who were horribly and outrageously martyred.

3.	This Lamb had “seven horns and seven eyes which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.” [v. 6]  The seven horns and seven crowns refer to the seven countries under the rule of the Umayyad Dynasty, or Banú Umayyah, who dominated Islám.  The seven eyes refer to the power of the Báb to open the books of the seven Divinely Revealed Religious Systems, one of which is Christianity.

Therefore, this Lamb is the second Lamb, the Báb, Who “came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.” [v.7]  This is a very important statement.  Jesus is here declaring that, though the Báb had the station of Prophethood, yet He received His power to open

the book that “was sealed with the seven seals” from the One that sat upon the throne.  The Báb declared, about His own book:

The Bayán deriveth all its glory from ‘Him Whom God shall make manifest’  All blessings be upon him who believeth in Him and woe betide him who rejecteth His truth.

“And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and the four [and] twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of the saints.” [v. 8]  This is a beautiful symbol of uniting the prayers of the devoted ones into a spiritual fragrance as they all joyfully sang a new song, which is a new Revelation.  It is significant that they recognized the station and authority of the Báb as they sang, “… Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof ….” [v. 9]

Then John heard the voice of many angels “… round about the throne and the beasts and the elders:  and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands.” [v. 11]  Thus there were myriads of angels acclaiming the worthiness, strength, honour, wisdom and glory of the Báb.  “And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea … heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, [be] unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.” [v. 13]  What a glorious spectacle of adoration Jesus has revealed.  John was permitted to see and hear of the One on the Throne, and of the Báb the Lamb of God, ordained for sacrifice “from the foundation of the world!”

6
The lamb—opening the seven seals

And he said, Go thy way, Daniel:  for the words [are] closed up and sealed till the time of the end.

Slowly the veil lifts.

For twenty centuries scholars have been interpreting in various ways the meaning of the “seven seals”.  In the Promulgation of Universal Peace, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, speaking in America stated:  “… the Revelations of St John are not to be taken literally, but spiritually.  These are the mysteries of God.  It is not the reading of the words that profits you; it is the understanding of their meanings.  Therefore, pray God that you may be enabled to comprehend the mysteries of the divine Testaments.”  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stressed the need of studying the Book of Revelation that the inner meaning may be revealed, thus bringing spiritual comprehension of the Divine Teachings.  John saw the Lamb begin to open the seals of the Book, which is the Word of God as revealed by all the Divine Revelators. [v. 1]  The Báb, the second Lamb, opened the first seal:  “And I saw, and behold a white horse:  and he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given unto him:  and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.” [v. 2]

We should note that a horse throughout Sacred Writings usually means something riding forth.  This rider had a bow but no arrow; and a crown, but not a golden crown.  One of the meanings is that the white horse and its rider symbolize theology that rides forth in the semblance of true religion.  True religion is the Word of God as given by His Divine Messengers; Theology is man’s conception of it.  Therefore, theology is of human origin, often containing man’s idea of the nature of God, together with man-made laws and ordinances that may be good and

helpful except when man uses them in place of the Word of God.  Unfortunately, many people are confused and have lost the power to distinguish between the Word of God and that which has been added or said about it.  The white horse rides forth, conquering and to conquer; with a crown, but not a golden one, that is, without Divine Authority; with a bow without an arrow; that is, without power to reach the soul.  Theology has authority but not Divine Authority.  People must turn more and more to the soul-stirring Word of God as revealed by the Revelator for this new cycle, to the Word written by His Pen.  Then there will be less and less need for the confusing and contradictory human ideas and interpretations, and the power of the Holy Spirit in the Word of God will penetrate the minds and souls.

God, and God alone, has the power to do whatever He wills, and the greatest proof of a Manifestation of God is the creative power of His word—its effectiveness to change and transform all human affairs and to triumph over all human opposition.  Through the word of the Prophets God announces His will, and the immediate or subsequent fulfilment of that word is the clearest proof of the Prophet’s claim and of the genuineness of His inspiration.

The power of the Word of God will make theology unnecessary in the New Cycle.

The Lamb then opened the second seal.  “And there went out another horse [that was] red:  and [power] was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another:  and there was given unto him a great sword.” [v. 4]  The red horse has usually been taken as a symbol of war.  This rider had a great sword in his hand, with which he took peace from the earth.  This red horse has been riding forth for a very long time, but it will not be riding very long in the new cycle.  All Prophets of the past have foretold the day of universal peace.  In the Psalms of David, we read:  “The Lord will give strength unto His people; the Lord will bless His people with peace.”  Haggai also foretold:  “The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the Lord of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the Lord of Hosts.”  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá foretells peace in these beautiful words:

True civilization will unfurl its banner in the midmost heart of the world whenever a certain number of its distinguished

and high-minded sovereigns … shall … arise … to establish the Cause of Universal Peace.

When the Lamb opened the third seal, John saw a black horse ride forth whose rider had a pair of balances in his hand.  And were they in balance?  No, there was a measure of wheat in one side and a penny in the other; and again, three measures of barley in one side and a penny in the other.  It was all out of balance, signifying the injustice that has long been riding in our economic, educational and social systems.  Although the black horse has been riding forth for centuries, there are innumerable statements foretelling the passing of the old age of injustice and disunity and the dawn of the new Day, when the light of justice and unity will shine throughout the world.  Bahá’u’lláh has declared:

The day, however, is approaching when the faithful will behold the Day Star of justice shining in its full splendour from the Day Spring of glory.

When the Lamb, the Báb opened the fourth seal, John saw a pale horse, which some might call an anaemic looking horse, with a rider whose name was Death.  “… Hell followed with him.  And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.” [v. 8.] Death does not mean the death of the body only, as is usually taught, but the absence of spiritual life.  Hell is remoteness from God, and heaven is nearness to God.  Resurrection is the birth of the individual to spiritual life through the gift of the Holy Spirit bestowed through the Manifestations of God.  Never before in the history of mankind has there been so much godlessness and atheistic thought and “stygian darkness” as there is today, even among our youth.  This fulfils the prophetic symbol of the pale horse riding forth.  The Divine Revelator for the new cycle warns:

They that have disbelieved in God and rebelled against His sovereignty are the helpless victims of their corrupt inclinations and desires.  These shall return to their abode in the fire of hell:  wretched is the abode of the deniers!

It is encouraging to realize that this fourth horse cannot always ride forth.  For we have entered a New Day, a New Age, a New Cycle.  There is a new consciousness, a new creation.  Whenever the spirit of godlessness rides forth, there is evil,

famine and crime.  When the people turn towards God, there is progress, spiritual life and peace.  John Esslemont stated ‘Abdu’l-Bahá taught that “Heaven is the state of perfection, and Hell that of imperfection; Heaven is harmony with God’s will and with our fellows, and Hell is the want of such harmony; Heaven is the condition of spiritual life, and Hell that of spiritual death.”  Therefore, we see that the disturbing four horsemen of the Apocalypse cannot ride forth in the New Age.

“And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held:  And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?  And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellow-servants and their brethren, that should be killed as they [were], should be fulfilled.” [v. 9–11]

Those who are gathered under the altar are the martyrs of each Dispensation of the Prophets of God.  The early believers in each Religious System have met with the utmost opposition, persecution and cruelty at the hands of their fellow countrymen.  They died as did the martyrs for Jesus, Muḥammad, and all the Prophets of God.  The first believers faced these calamities with sublime heroism, steadfastness and loving kindness as they gave their lives for the Cause of God.  These martyrs were told to wait until a later time when others would be added to their number.  Twenty thousand of the most sincere and devoted people of Persia, many of the most learned, were grossly tortured and massacred before and after the time of the execution of the Báb, thus fulfilling this prophecy.  The love of God transmutes suffering into joy, martyrdom into reward and heavenly bliss.

Now we come to the opening of the sixth seal, which is full of meaning for us.  “And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sack-cloth of hair, and the moon became as blood; And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.  And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.” [v. 12–14]

In the Qur’án we read:

When the sun shall be folded up,
And when the stars shall fall,
And when the mountains shall be set in motion …
And when the leaves of the Book shall be unrolled,
And when the Heaven shall be stripped away,
And when Hell shall be made to blaze.

This is a renewed statement of the same signs that Jesus gave, as quoted in Matthew 24 and Luke 21:25–28.  Jesus had told His disciples that He was going to leave them but that He would come again unto them.  They were very much troubled, for they loved Him devotedly, and did not want Him to leave them.  Then the disciples asked, “When shall these things be?  and what shall be the sign of Thy coming, and of the end of the world?”  Jesus re-emphasized in His Revelation to John five of these great signs that would occur before His return and the end of the cycle:

1.	A great earthquake

2.	The darkening of the sun and moon called “The Dark Day”

3.	The shower, or falling, of stars

4.	The heaven departed as a scroll

5.	The moving of mountains and islands

He spoke of the tribulations of the days preceding these signs, which seem to have been fulfilled in the terrible crimes of feudalism, the dreadful Inquisition, and the shaking events in the European world leading to the French Revolution.  Toward the close of the days of tribulation, the Lisbon earthquake occurred in 1775.

So amazing were some of the historical events that have been considered as fulfilment that it would be worthwhile to consider them one by one.  Professor W. H. Hobbs, geologist, states:  “The earthquake in Lisbon, Portugal, in some respects, takes first place among all recorded earthquakes ….  In six minutes 60,000 people perished.”  The English author, James W. Parton states:  “At twenty minutes to ten on the morning of 1 November 1775, Lisbon was firm and magnificent, on one of the most picturesque and commanding sites in the world—a city of superb approach.  In six minutes the great city was in ruins … half of the world felt the convulsion ….  In Sweden, Africa and the West Indies … the perturbations were felt for more than a month afterward, even in distant parts of Europe.”  “The conflagration lasted a whole week.  There was a tidal wave and floods.  Six million people were affected by this great earthquake and the effects were distributed over nearly four million square

miles of the earth’s surface, and greatly surpassed anything of the kind ever recorded in history.”  The Lisbon Earthquake is the greatest on record between the time of Jesus Christ and the birth of Bahá’u’lláh in 1817.  Thus, the first of these signs bore its warning message to men, in the midst of an age of rationalism and unbelief, and by turning their thoughts toward the earth’s instability and human helplessness, gradually awakened them to the Love of God.  The first of these signs was, therefore, fulfilled in 1775.

The second great sign given by Jesus became known historically as “The Dark Day”.  “On May 19, 1780, the birds, animals and people rose as usual and sang their morning songs”, as one account stated.  “By 10:00 am, a thick darkness covered the land, and they again went to bed.”

A. N. Hollis, Professor of Mathematics and Philosophy in the University of Cambridge, Massachusetts, wrote a lengthy article about the remarkable darkness of this Dark Day that lasted from fifteen to twenty hours.  He stated that the darkness was not caused by any eclipse, which is proven by the relative positions of the planets of our systems at that time, for the moon was more than 150 degrees from the sun on that day.  Although it was time for a full moon, it did not shine.  There were no clouds or smoke that could cause such an extended darkness, in which even artificial light seemed to make no impression.  Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary gives an account of this unexplainable darkness and ends by stating that “the true cause of this remarkable phenomenon is unknown.”  This was confirmed from many sources and the historical cause of the darkness has yet to be explained.  John Greenleaf Whittier wrote of this event in his noted poem entitled Abraham Davenport.

The Dark Day

Meanwhile in the old State House, dim as ghosts,
Sat the lawgivers of Connecticut,

Trembling beneath their legislative robes.
“It is the Lord's Great Day!  Let us adjourn,”
Some said; and then, as if with one accord,
All eyes were turned to Abraham Davenport.
He rose, slow cleaving with his steady voice
The intolerable hush.  “This well may be
The Day of Judgment which the world awaits;
But be it so or not, I only know
My present duty, and my Lord's command
To occupy till He come.  So at the post
Where He hast set me in His providence,
I choose, for one, to meet Him face to face,
No faithless servant frightened from my task,
But ready when the Lord of the harvest calls;
And therefore, with all reverence, I would say,
Let God do His work, we will see to ours.
Bring in the candles.”  And they brought them in.

Jesus Christ, looking across the unrolled scroll of history, gave these unusual signs and said “… the end is not yet.”  We have, first, the great earthquake, unlike anything before in history; second, the dark day, unlike anything else in previous history, the moon becoming as blood; and then, the third sign, when “… the stars of heaven fell upon the earth; even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.” [v. 13]  Meteoric displays or swarms of shooting stars have been observed since the dawn of history; but this phenomenon coming in the order foretold by Jesus in Matthew 24, Mark 13, Luke 21, and Revelation 6, is momentous.

An English scientist, Thomas Milner, wrote that “The attention of astronomers in Europe and all over the world was roused by this celestial display on the night of November 12–13, 1833, when the falling stars like a tempest broke over the earth pelting North America from the Gulf of Mexico to Halifax.”  Denison Olmsted, Professor of Astronomy at Yale, wrote:  “Probably no celestial phenomenon has ever occurred which was viewed with so much admiration and delight by one class of spectators

and with so much astonishment and fear by another class.”  Another astronomer, Professor Simon Newcomb, states that this phenomenal exhibition of falling stars is the most remarkable one ever observed.”  The French astronomer, Flammarion, wrote:  “At the moment of maximum it was like half the number of snowflakes which we perceive in the air during an ordinary shower of snow, estimated at thirty four thousand stars an hour.”  Dr Humphreys of St John’s College, Annapolis, Maryland, wrote “In the words of most people, they fell like flakes of snow.”  Dr H. H. Jessup, Professor at the Presbyterian College of Beirut, describes the scene:  “On the morning of the fourteenth [November], at three o’clock, I was roused from a deep sleep by the voice of the young man calling, ‘The stars are coming down!’…  The meteors poured down like a rain of fire blown by a mighty wind.  Many of them were large and varicoloured, and left behind them a long train of fire.  One immense green meteor came down over Lebanon., seeming as large as the moon, and exploded with a loud noise, leaving a green pillar of light in its train.  It was vain to attempt to count them, and the display continued until dawn, when their light was obscured by the king of day ….  The Muslims gave the call to prayer from the minarets, and the common people were in terror.”

Thoughtful people were awed by the fulfilment of the prophetic signs of Jesus.  Professor Alexander Twining, civil engineer, late instructor at Yale University wrote of the flaming visitants from space.  “Had they held on their course unabated for three seconds longer, half a continent must, to all appearances, have been involved in unheard of calamity.  But that Almighty Being Who made the world, and knew its dangers, gave it also its armature, endowing the atmospheric medium around it with protecting no less-than-life-sustaining properties.”  “It is not meet that such occurrences as those of November 13th should leave no more solid and permanent effect upon the human mind than the impression of a splendid scene.”  Multitudes felt that the great Creator had, spoken to man with terrible magnitude and power in this notable

wonder of His heavens, foretold by Jesus.  A Missouri paper published an account that “Everything wore the aspect and hue of death, occasioned by the continued, pallid glare of these countless meteors, which in all their grandeur flamed lawless as though blown by a mighty wind, through the sky ….  There was scarcely a space in the firmament, or on the earth, which was not filled at every instant with these falling stars, or could you, in general, perceive any particular difference in appearance.”  “There was a grand, peculiar and indescribable gloom on all around, an awe inspiring sublimity on all above; while the sanguine flood rolled a broad slaughter o’er the plains of heaven.  And nature’s self did seem to totter on the brink of time!”  Newcomb and other scientists stated that there was no known explanation for this phenomenon.  Although there had been great showers of stars in 1599, 1799, 1833 and 1867, one like that of 13 November 1833, has never happened before or since in the records of mankind.  Jesus foretold that immediately after the shower of stars, which occurred on 13 November 1833, “… then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in Heaven: … and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.”  “And … then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.”  The only sign of the Son of Man in the phenomenal heavens is the sign of Aquarius in the astronomical zodiac, or clock of the heavens—the man with the watering pot pouring out a stream of water, which means spiritual knowledge or truth.  It was on 21 March 1844, that the sun crossed the vernal equinox, entered the sign of Aquarius, and a great new astronomical cycle began.  It was on 23 May 1844, that the Báb made His great declaration that the cycle had ended, that a new Day had dawned, and that “The Anticipated One”, “Whom God shall make manifest”, would appear, He, Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God!  In considering Revelation 1:13, it was clearly established that One like unto the Son of Man, was made manifest.  Jesus spoke much about the Promised One Who would usher in the great Day of Judgement, and told of the regeneration when the Son of Man shall come in the Glory of the Father.

“And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together ….” [v. 14]  This is the fourth sign that could not have a

literal fulfilment consonant with the continued existence of our universe as we know from other references.  This symbolic sign means the rolling up of the old cycle and the rapid decline of religious authority.  Today we see the staggering forces of disintegration undermining the old world order, putrid with corruption, and we see many evidences of the New World Order that will be the foundation of the Golden Age of Peace.  “Soon,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead.”

The fifth sign is that “… every mountain and island were moved out of their places.” [v. 14]  Taken literally this would be astonishing.  “Mountains” usually refer to those things that we thought would stand forever, such as our social and political systems, our economic and even our monetary system.  Every person should realize that nothing is permanent.  Today everything is undergoing very rapid changes.  The world is in a state of transition.  The “mountains” of yesterday are being rolled away to make way for a more glorious world of tomorrow.  The “islands” are usually interpreted as referring to those isolating or separating forces such as dogmas, creeds, traditions, ceremonies, and denominational differences that divide people, rather than unite them.

These things shall be moved out of their places and the rich men, the rulers, the mighty men and all men of earth shall be filled with fear when the hour of their judgement is come—that hour when every institution, every system and ideology and every human soul, shall be tested.  “The Day of Judgement”, all the Prophets of God teach, “is the Day of the new Manifestation, by acceptance or rejection of Whose Revelation the sheep are separated from the goats, for the sheep know the voice of the Good Shepherd and follow Him.”

In the Book of Certitude, Bahá’u’lláh explains that all these signs are both symbolic and historical and are not to be understood in their literal sense only.  For instance, earthquakes symbolize the great changes that take place in human affairs at the end of the old cycle, such as the social, political and ecclesiastical upheavals that shake the very foundations of established traditions.  Darkness symbolizes spiritual apathy and oppression when the pure teachings of the spiritual Suns have become obscured by misrepresentation, misunderstanding and prejudice.  The “Falling of Stars” indicates that religious leaders have become

debased and worldly-minded.

Scanning the pages of recorded history, in the light of the Word of God, we begin to glimpse the unrolling, majestic Plan of God, the fulfilment of the signs given by Jesus of the Manifestation of the Holy Spirit again upon the earth, and the awe-inspiring Divine purpose of God to awaken men to know and to worship Him.

Howard Colby Ives expresses this beautifully in these lines from:

The Song Celestial.

“God Speaks:
For, in this gloomy and disastrous age
Man may perceive, if he will scan My Page,
The secret of Creation.  There is he
Told of My Wisdom; for Humanity
Hath borne indeed its noblest fruit;
My love Disclosed in Man his Lord, that he may prove
All things and thereby with My aid may reach
The summit of the truth I fain would teach,
That all men’s probing eye and mind can see
Hath but one purpose, to discover Me.”

7
Seal of the living God
—sealing 144,000 of the servants

The Holy Spirit it is which, through the mediation of the Prophets of God, teaches spiritual virtues to man and enables him to attain Eternal Life.

Scientists have devoted an immense amount time studying life in its various expressions in the vegetable and animal kingdoms; but they have thus far failed to devote the same study effort to the life of the spiritual kingdom.  Every human being is striving consciously or unconsciously to gain more of the inner realities and the light of the spirit.  Chapter VII opens the door to one of the most profound truths, of which all souls must sooner or later become aware.  In the preceding chapters, Jesus has given many signs that have already been fulfilled.  “And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding [back] the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.” [v. 1]  Could it be that the four winds were destined to decimate everything upon the earth?  Then a mighty angel came, “having the seal of the living God:  and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, Saying, hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.” [v. 2–3]  “… in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that holy spirit of promise ….”  “And grieve not the holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption.”

The mighty angel commanded the forces of destruction to be held back until the “chosen ones” had received the seal of the living God.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that before man’s spirit becomes quickened, his days pass in mere existence; but when he

grasps the reality of things and their profound inner truths, he grows in perception, understanding and radiance.  Only when his soul becomes afire with the Holy Spirit and he arises to serve, then is he sealed in the forehead with the seal of the living God, and becomes one of the “chosen ones”.

“And I heard the number of them which were sealed ….” [v. 4]  All through the Sacred Writings, when it is stated, “I saw the number” or “I heard the number”, there is a very great significance to the number itself.  After saying this, John further stated:  “…[and there were] sealed an hundred [and] forty [and] four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.” [v. 4]  Many think that the “children of Israel” refers only to the Jews who are returning to rebuild Israel, the Israelites, but it also has another meaning.  “Children of Israel” also means the “followers of the Light of God”.  It was foretold, in Isaiah, “and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord shall name.”  Today the most universal name, which the mouth of the Lord hath named, is “Bahá’í”, meaning “Followers of the Light of God”.  The sum of the digits of “hundred and forty and four thousand” resolves to the number nine and so designates completion and unity.  Nine, which is the numerical value of “Bahá”, is the highest number and from it all other numbers are made.  In our number system, the sum of the digits of the sum (1+2+3+…+9 = 45) and the multiple (1´2´3´…´9 = 1,512) of the unit numbers resolves to nine.  Symbolically speaking, it means all those who have gained the “unified or nine-consciousness” in recognition of the unity, the divine station and light of all of God’s Revelators, and have become servants of the latest Messenger of God, Bahá’u’lláh.  The tribes of the children of Israel are symbolic, not only of the spiritual part of Jacob’s descendants, but of all who have attained the “Unified or nine-consciousness”.  “For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; … But he [is] a Jew, which is one inwardly ….”  “For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek ….  For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.”

All of the tribes of the Children of Israel, such as Juda, Reuben, etc., that were sealed, mean symbolically, all the followers of the Light of God, who today have gained the “nine-consciousness” of recognition and risen in His service.  These only are the chosen ones sealed in their foreheads.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “Undoubtedly the friends of God have been endowed with

ability and capacity to serve, on which account they become of the ‘chosen’ and not of the ‘called’.”

Another important key is “After this”, the words with which the ninth verse begins.  “After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands; And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.  And all the angels stood round about the throne, and [about] the elders and the four beasts, and (all the angels) fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God.” [v. 9–11}  “After this”, meaning after the sealing of the servants of God in their foreheads, John saw multitudes that no man could number who were given “white robes and palms” signifying the heavenly qualities with which the servants became adorned.  “Palms” denote the cause of praise and thanksgiving, as when Jesus entered a Jerusalem on “Palm Sunday” amidst the songs of praise and thanksgiving.  In the vision of the things to come the unnumbered multitudes were given palms as they stood before the throne and the Lamb.  The angels round about the throne and the four beasts, and the four and twenty elders bowed before the throne and the Lamb in recognition and in reverence.  John was asked, “… What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?  And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest.  And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.” [v. 13–14]  The ones who are given the white robe and the palms, are those who, because of their suffering in the great tribulation, were compelled to recognize the One upon the throne.  Those who come after the great tribulation that is yet to come, are also given the palms.  “Disappointment and the frustration of hopes shall surround the people from every direction until they are obliged to turn to God.”  “All the people of the world will become believers.…  Unquestionably, all will come under the shadow of the Cause of God.”

Are all the multitudes who sing praise of the One upon the throne, sealed in their foreheads?  In all the Sacred Writings there are many references to the many who are called and the few who are chosen.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains in these words:  “His Highness

the Almighty hath chosen the friends from among the concourse of men and hath especialized them with the most eminent guidance and the highest gift ….”  He also stated:  “That … there are many who are invited, but those souls who are signalized with the grace and favour of guidance are but very rare.”

Only those who rise to serve before the great tribulation are sealed in their foreheads as a special bounty and gift of God!  For example, it is impossible, much as we may desire it, to be one of the disciples or apostles of Jesus or of any, of the Prophets of God.  That is a special bounty given to the chosen ones in each dispensation.  It is the bounty of God given to the chosen ones in this Day who with loving consecration arise in the service of Bahá’u’lláh before the great tribulation comes to try all the world.

Then the promise is given that “… he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.” [v. 15]  This means that the person sitting on the throne will appear in the physical world in a human body to teach the laws of life for the new cycle.  Then the glorious day will dawn when people will neither hunger nor thirst, nor weep any more, for the Lamb, the Báb, shall lead them to the “living fountains of water”, which is the Word of God as poured forth and revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.  God is calling you and has chosen those who are worthy and ready for this great bounty and service.  Jesus Christ declared, “many are called but few are chosen”.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:  “Verily, God has chosen you for His love and knowledge; God has chosen you for the worthy service of unifying mankind; God has chosen you for the purpose of investigating reality and promulgating international peace; God has chosen you for the progress and development of humanity, for spreading and proclaiming true education, for the expression of love toward your fellow creatures and the removal of prejudice; God has chosen you to blend together human hearts and give light to the human world.  The doors of His generosity are wide, wide open to us; but we must be attentive, alert and mindful, occupied with service to all mankind, appreciating the bestowals of God and ever conforming to His will.”

8
Seven trumpets
—the twelve Imams

… we have put enmity and hatred between them that shall last until the Day of Resurrection.  Oft as they kindle a beacon fire for war shall God quench it!

The drama unfolds

Throughout the Sacred Writings, angels are usually referred to as messengers of God.  Such were the angels who came to Daniel in the lion’s den; to Jacob in his moment of fear; to Abraham as a warning of the destruction of Sodom; to Lot warning him and his family to leave that corrupt city; to Peter when he was released from prison; and also the Heavenly Hosts who proclaimed the birth of the Christ Child.

When the seventh seal was opened, John “… saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.” [v. 2]  A “trumpet” indicates the heralding of a message, or a call to prayer.  The Christians of that period used a clapper, the Jews used trumpets, and the Zoroastrians used bonfires for this purpose.  Bahá’u’lláh has stated:

‘By angels’ is meant those who, reinforced by the power of the spirit, have consumed, with the fire of the love of God, all human traits and limitations, and have clothed themselves with the attributes of the most exalted Beings and of the Cherubim.

Jesus foretold in this Revelation that, when each one of these angels would appear upon the earth and blow his trumpet, disturbing things would happen that would clear away the debris of corruption so that the Day of God might dawn.

Consider the days of Jesus, when there was only a small body of people, and then observe the great tree which grew from that seed and what an abundant fruit it produced.  This is greater than that, for as much as it is the calling of the Lord of Hosts and the Voice of

the Trumpet of the Living God; it is the summons unto the harmony and unison of the world, and it is the banner of faithfulness, trustworthiness and friendship among the difference nations and sects of the universe; it is the light of the Sun of Truth and the spirituality of the Majestic One.  Verily this great cycle (dispensation) will encompass all the horizons and ultimately all the nations will gather together under this standard.

“The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.  And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood; And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.  And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters; And the name of the star is called Wormwood:  and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.” [v. 7–11]

Could this be a symbolic warning that a third of things that had life would die spiritually because they drank of the waters that were made bitter and there would be great destruction?  Was this fulfilled during the period of the Islamic Dispensation, as shown, for instance in Mahomet and His Successors by Washington Irving?

There are a number of prophecies in both the Old and New Testaments that proclaim the advent of Muḥammad.  “… The Lord came from Sinai, and rose up from Seir unto them; he shined forth from Mount Paran, and he came with ten thousands of saints; from his right hand [went] a fiery law for them.”  Paran is a mountain in Arabia, and all Bible references to it denote Islám; Sinai refers to Moses, and Seir, a mountain in Galilee, alludes to Jesus.  Bahá’u’lláh, the Lord of Hosts, with the right hand of power, brings a fiery law to unite all in this great new cycle.  Mt Carmel refers to Bahá’u’lláh, from where the new law went forth.  Habakkuk 3.3 speaks of the “Holy One from Mount Paran.”  “And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee:  Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget and I will make him a great nation.”  Muḥammad descended from Abraham through Ishmael, and the twelve “princes” are the twelve Imams.

Many in the world still recognize Jesus Christ as only a spirit.

According to the Bible that idea or realization is the anti-Christ.  The Revelator always comes in the flesh to reveal the Law of God and the Word of God.  “Hereby know ye the Spirit of God:  Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God:  And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God:  and this is that [spirit] of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world.”  Again, the Qur’án says:  “And remember when Jesus the son of Mary said, ‘O children of Israel! of a truth I am God’s apostle to you to confirm the law which was given before me, and to announce an apostle that shall come after me whose name shall be Aḥmad!’”  Muslims state that the “Comforter” in John 16:7; 14:6; and 15:26 is the Paraclete or Illustrious, which is the meaning of “Aḥmad”.  Muḥammad, according to a ḥadíth (tradition), said:  “I have five names:  I am Muḥammad; and Aḥmad; and Effacing, by means of which God effaces infidelity; and Gatherer, Who will gather people; and Final, that is to say, the Last of the Prophets [for the Adamic Cycle].”

Bahá’u’lláh calls Muḥammad “God’s Well-beloved”.  The Báb states that had the Christian divines of a former age recognized the truth of Muḥammad’s mission, they would have been followed by the mass of their co-religionists.

Let us consider the period of history to which Jesus was referring.  In each dispensation there have been twelve holy souls or disciples, who have established and promoted the faith of the Founder.  Jacob had twelve sons; there were twelve chiefs who followed Moses, and Jesus called His twelve disciples.  Muḥammad had twelve successors known as Imams, who were of the lineal descent of the Prophet, except for ‘Alí, His first Disciple, who was both His cousin and His son-in-law.  Some knowledge about these is important to understand this Revelation by Jesus Christ.

We will now consider the twelve Imams or Disciples, the Holy Ones, of Muḥammad, each of whom was murdered through the machinations of ambitious Caliphs (Khalífa).  “… the Khalífih of the Sunnis is merely the outward and visible Defender of the Faith:  the Imám of the Shí‘ahs is the divinely ordained successor of the Prophet, one who is endowed with all perfections and

spiritual gifts, one whom all the faithful must obey, whose decision is absolute and final, whose wisdom is superhuman, and whose words are authoritative.”

Muḥammad had unmistakably appointed His successor, but nothing had been written down.  The Qur’án, so detailed in other matters, does not name the successor of Muḥammad in a definite statement.  However, the Prophet many times indicated that ‘Alí, who was called the “Hand of God”, who was His cousin, His adopted son and His son-in-law was His appointed successor.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states “… Muḥammad was the root and ‘Alí the branch, like Moses and Joshua.”

When the Prophet was returning from His Farewell Pilgrimage to Mecca, He had the caravan halt; He told the concourse of people to gather in the shade of some thorn trees, and had them build a pulpit of saddles, near the Pool of Khumm.  Then He raised ‘Alí up and said, ‘Whoever hath Me as his Master, hath ‘Alí as his Master … I have been summoned to the gate of God, and I shall soon depart … to be concealed from you.’  Then He spoke of two treasures He would leave them:  ‘The greatest treasure is the Book of God ….  Hold fast to it and do not lose it and do not change it.  The other treasure is the line of My descendants.”

Muḥammad’s wife, Khadijih was the first to believe in Him, and the first non-related person was an Ethiopian slave.

The twelve Imams, or genealogical successors of Muḥammad, :

1.	‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭalib, the cousin and first disciple of the Prophet, assassinated at al-Kúfa, (AH 40) CE 661.

2.	Ḥasan, son of ‘Alí and Fáṭima, born AH 2, poisoned (AH 50) CE 670.

3.	Ḥusayn, son of ‘Alí and Fáṭima, born AH 4, killed at Karbilá (AH 61) 10 October CE 680.

4.	Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín ‘Alí, son of Ḥusayn and Shahribánú (daughter of Yazdigird III, the last Sásáníyán king), generally called Imám Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín, poisoned AH 94 (CE 661).

5.	Muḥammad-Báqir ibn ‘Alí, son of Imám Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín and his cousin Fáṭima Umm ‘Abdu’lláh, the daughter of Imám Ḥasan, poisoned AH 113.

6.	Ja‘far-aṣ-Ṣádiq ibn Báqir, son of Imám Muḥammad-Báqir, poisoned AH 148.

7.	Músá al-Káẓim ibn Báqir, son of Imám Ja‘far-i-Ṣádiq, born AH 129, poisoned AH 183.

8.	‘Alí ibn Músá ar-Riḍá, generally called Imám Riḍá, (‘Alí III), born AH 153, poisoned AH 203 and buried at Mashhad, which derived its name and its sanctity from him.

9.	Muḥammad al-Taqí ibn Músá, son of Imám Riḍá, born AH 195, poisoned at Baghdád, AH 220.

10.	‘Alí an-Naqí (‘Alí IV), son of Imám Muḥammad-Taqí, born AH 213, poisoned at Surra-Man-Ra’á, AH 254.

11.	Ḥasan al-‘Askarí ibn Naqí, son of Imám ‘Alí-Naqí, born AH 232, poisoned AH 260.

12.	Muḥammad, son of Imám Ḥasan-i-‘Askarí, born AH 255 and succeeded his father in the Imamate, in AH 260, called by the Shi‘as Imám-Mihdí, Ḥujjatu’lláh (“the Proof of God”), Baqíyyatu’lláh (“the Remnant of God”), and al-Qá’im Ál Muḥammad (“He who shall arise of the family of Muḥammad”).

The twelfth Imám “… bore not only the same name but the same kunya [title]—Abu’l-Qásim—as the Prophet, and according to the Shi‘ahs it is not lawful for any other to bear this name and this kunya together ….

“The Shi‘ahs hold that he did not die, but disappeared [almost immediately after his father’s death] in an underground passage in Surra-Man-Ra’á, AH 329; that he still lives, surrounded by a chosen band of his followers, in one of those mysterious cities, Jábulqá and Jábulsá; and that when the fullness of time is come, when the earth is filled with injustice, and the faithful are plunged in despair, he will come forth, heralded by Jesus Christ, overthrow the infidels, establish universal peace and justice, and inaugurate a millennium of blessedness ….  After assuming the functions of Imám and presiding at the burial of his father and predecessor, the Imám Ḥasan al-‘Askarí, he disappeared from the sight of all save a chosen few, who, one after the other, continued to act as channels of communication between

him and his followers.  These persons were known as ‘Gates’.

Muḥammad, the Prophet of God, born in Arabia, is called “God’s Well-beloved”; the “Faithful”, and the “Seal of the Prophets”.  He was born about CE 570, His first revelation was about CE 610 and the first public declaration was about CE 613.  Muḥammad appeared in one of the darkest countries, in the midst of illiterate, cruel and barbarous tribes; and by the purity of His heart and the Spirit that flowed through Him, He lifted those barbarous tribes into a great civilization.  His Revelation was included in a Book, the Qur’án, which became the cause of enlightenment; He gave basic knowledge that became the foundation of new fields of science, and also gave the Divine Laws for a new Dispensation.  The twelve Imams carried on His Message and kept it pure, but the ecclesiastical rulers changed and perverted His Message and spread the twisted teachings instead of the pure teachings of the divine Truth.

The persecutions by ambitious opposers began when each Imám gave forth His message.  During the period of the first seven Imams, the illiteracy and the impurity of heart were so great that the people were unable to comprehend the difference between that which was true and that which was distorted.  Being incapable of withstanding the cruel, revolting persecutions, a third of the people drank of the “waters” (meaning spiritual knowledge) that had been made “bitter” by distortions, “and many men died (spiritually) of the waters, because they were made bitter.” [v. 11]

The entire eighth chapter tells the history, of the first four Imams, closing with the verse that foretells of “… Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabitors of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound!” [v. 13]  The western world has failed to understand Muḥammad and His Mission.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:

Muḥammad never fought against the Christians; on the contrary, He treated them with consideration and accorded them complete freedom. …  In the edicts He promulgated, it is clearly stated that the lives, property, and honour of Jews and Christians are under the protection of God ….

The English writer Bishop Ken states well a searching truth in these few words:

The older error is, it is the worse,
Continuation may provoke a curse;

If the Dark Age obscured our fathers’ sight,
Must their sons shut their eyes against the Light!

9
The seven angels
—locusts like scorpions

God says in the Qur’án:  ‘Take ye hold of the Cord of God, all of you, and become ye not disunited.’

The seven angels sound.

One of the saddest periods of all religious history is the one following the death of the Prophet Muḥammad—a period filled with deception and calamities that began with a schism forty days after His body was laid to rest and His Spirit ascended.  History records that although the line of succession clearly went through ‘Alí and Fáṭima, the daughter of Muḥammad, the ambitious Abú Bakr claimed the right to be His successor simply because Muḥammad had asked him, during His last illness, to lead the prayers one day in the Mosque.  The Sunnis are followers of Abú Bakr and his line.

‘Alí, who was the son-in-law and a cousin of the Prophet, was the first Imám, which means “spiritual leader” or “guide”.  The Shi‘ahs believe that ‘Alí and His descendants held the divine right to the Imamate or Seat of Succession.  Shí‘ah signifies “upholders of the family of the Prophet”.  There were continual strifes between the followers of both sides.  Horrible wars and massacres were bitter and revolting.  The Imams were all murdered, as were many of their followers who remained steadfast and tried to maintain the purity of Muḥammad’s message.

In the Book of Revelation, we learn that Jesus foretold some of the events that would take place at this time in the history of Islám.  Chapter IX pictures some of these events.

And the fifth angel sounded and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth:  and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit.  And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were

darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.  And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth; and unto them was given power, as the scorpions of earth have power.  And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.” [v. 1–4]

Ralph Waldo Emerson, in one of his essays, says:  “There is nothing more bottomless than the pit of ignorance.”  In many of the Sacred Writings, and in classical literature, the “bottomless pit” is called the pit of ignorance, from which the smoke of evil and the beast pour forth.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains Revelation 11:7 as follows:

“The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them." [cf. Rev. 11:7]  By this beast is meant the Umayyads, who assailed these witnesses from the pit of error.  And indeed it came to pass that the Umayyads assailed the religion of Muhammad and the truth of 'Ali, which consist in the love of God.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the Banú Umayyah, the ecclesiastical hierarchy, subverted the spiritual life spread by the Imams, destroyed the divine laws and teachings of Muḥammad, and substituted human rituals and forms.  Thus, the religious system became like an empty vessel or a beautiful lamp without a light.  Obviously, in the Islamic World also, there are many called but few who are chosen.

The locusts are symbols of hordes of armies with deadly stings, like venomous scorpions that continue the persecutions for “five months”.  “And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months:  and their torment [was] as the torment of a scorpion when it striketh a man.” [v. 5]  The key to “time” is given by Ezekiel:  “… I have appointed thee each day for a year.”  Counting thirty days to a month, five months resolves to one hundred and fifty years, which was the period of the most horrible massacres in Islamic history.  Jesus Christ even foretold the battle against Muḥammad at Uhud, near Medina, with men wearing helmets of brass, “like gold”, but not gold, and the idolatrous women going to battle with their archers, beating their timbrels (a musical percussion instrument).  When the Prophet was wounded in the mouth by an arrow of the archer of His chief enemy, Abú Sufyán, a disciple asked Him to curse the enemy.  Muḥammad replied, “I have not been sent as a curse to man-

kind, but as an inviter to good and as a mercy.”  Savage persecutions by His enemies continued throughout the entire Dispensation of Muḥammad, and even to this day.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the Banú Umayyah as the beast who attacked Muḥammad, ‘Alí and their teachings from the pit of error and destroyed their virtues of truthfulness, justice, purity, love, humility, and sanctity.  They left only prayer and fasting—the body without the spirit.  They killed many of Muḥammad’s descendants who might be rightly esteemed.  This condition lasted for 1,260 years until the Declaration of the Báb.

An examination of Islamic history will verify that the period of the power of the Banú Umayyah, lasted 150 years.  The founder of the Umayyad Dynasty was Abú-Sufyán, grandson of Umayya ibn ‘Abd Shams, for whom the dynasty was named, though Abú-Sufyán was not a Caliph.  The Umayyah were related to the Prophet’s Quraysh clan, sometimes called the Korish Tribe, in which Muḥammad’s father, ‘Abdu’lláh, was born.  For years, ever since the beginning of the Islamic Era in CE 622, according to the Moslem historians Hitti and Amir Ali, Abú-Sufyán had been the heart of the opposition of the Quraysh to Muḥammad, persecuting Him until His death in CE 632.  The Umayyad Dynasty lasted from CE 661 to 749, although ‘Uthmán, Caliph from CE 644 to 656, was also one of the Umayyads.  During the period from CE 632 to 644, and from CE 656 to 661, the Banú Umayyah were persecuting the true believers, the followers of the Imams, and scheming to usurp the Caliphate.  When the Umayyad dynasty ended in 749, the Abbasids “proceeded against the fallen dynasty with unheard of savagery.  Throughout Syria the Umayyads were hunted down and extirpated like wild beasts.”  This process lasted several years.  One of the Umayyads escaped to Spain where he became Emir of Cordova in CE 756.  Another three years of conflict ensued in Syria, before peace was attained, that makes 150 years from CE 610 to 760, inclusive, truly an accurate fulfilment of Jesus Christ’s prophecy.  During the Inquisition in Spain, two million Jews were forced to choose between joining the Church and death.  Many were martyred.  Many became “Muslims” but escaped to Jerusalem in CE 1839–1840.

“One Woe is past; [and] behold, there come two woes more

hereafter.” [v. 12]  It is strange that one should think of the coming of the Prophet of God as a woe.  However, it is indeed “the great and terrible Day of the Lord” when the Prophet brings the Law of God that people resist and denounce with such terrible consequences that to them it is a woe.  Two more woes are foretold to come after Muḥammad, and they are the Ones bringing the New Age of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:

The first woe is the appearance of the Prophet, Muḥammad, the son of ‘Abdu'lláh—peace be upon Him!  The second woe is that of the Báb—to Him be glory and praise!  The third woe is the great day of the manifestation of the Lord of Hosts and the radiance of the Beauty of the Promised One [Bahá’u’lláh].

“And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God, Saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates.  And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.  And the number of the army of the horsemen [were] two hundred thousand thousand:  and I heard the number of them.” [v. 13–16]

In Chapter VII it is stated that four angels were about to loose the four winds that were to destroy everything upon the earth.  Also a great or mighty angel said, “… Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.”  The sixth angel is now told to “… Loose the four angels … for to slay the third part of men.” [v. 14–15]  Then John describes the fire, smoke and brimstone [sulphur] that came from the mouths of the horses, and it was by these three that the third part of men was to be killed.  This signifies that the fire and smoke of error would destroy the spiritual life of the people to the extent that:

… the light of the virtues of the world of humanity, which is the result of the love and knowledge of God, is extinguished; and the darkness of tyranny, oppression, satanic passions and desires has become victorious.

“Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.” [v. 21]  Never had there been such a prolonged period of devastating darkness, evil and despair.  Jesus Christ, looking across the unrolling scroll of history, gave clear and definite warnings of this night of spiritual, mental and moral darkness that “must

come to pass” before the dawn of the New Day.  He admonished,  “But that which ye have [already] hold fast till I come.”

10
A little book opened
—a new dimension of time

Thus hath the Tongue of Revelation spoken that which God hath made the ornament of the book of creation ….

Time and space move to a new dimension.

Now the scene of the great drama changes.  Darkness, ignorance, prejudice, pretence, evil and despair had spread over most of the world.  There was scarcely any progress and so false had civilization become that even the consciousness of its falsity had vanished.

It is recounted in the preceding chapter that the Books of God had been sealed with seven seals until the day when each seal was opened by the Lamb Who stood beside the Throne.  Now Jesus Christ pictures another mighty angel in these words:  “And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud; and a rainbow [was] upon his head, and his face [was] as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire.” [v. 1]  Could it be that every Prophet of God has come in a “cloud” of man’s doubts, unbeliefs and fears?  One of the proofs of His station as a Prophet is that He shines through the clouds and causes them to melt away and vanish.  This mighty angel came in this kind of a “cloud” and a “rainbow was upon his head”.

Even as the seven prismatic colours, when blended, form a ray of pure white light, so the light of the seven great religious systems, symbolically, each having its own individual spiritual colour that, when blended, becomes the pure white light of unity and truth.  This mighty angel had the rainbow of light of all the seven Revelators upon His head, opening the way for the Promised One to blend them all and uplift them into the pure white light of truth for the New Day; and His face shone like the sun.

“And he had in his hand a little book open ….” [v. 2]  What

a mighty and portentous statement!  Never before in all human history, never before in all the Sacred Writings, never even in the consciousness of man had there been such a powerful, sweeping statement regarding the Book!  For the first time in the Bible it states that the Book is open.

The Book, already established, is the Word of God as revealed by all of His Chosen Messengers, not just that by one of Them.  One would then imagine it to be a huge book.  This, however, is a little book, since the actual words of all the Revelators put together, excluding all the history, the admonitions of man and his ideas—all of human origin—would make only a small book.  Now, at last, this wondrous Book, the Word of God, is opened!  The One upon the Throne, Bahá’u’lláh, had given the little Book sealed with the seven seals to the Lamb, the Báb, to open.  At last, praise be to God, after all the slowly unfolding centuries, the Book is open!  The Báb set His right foot on the sea (symbolic of no more separation) and His left foot upon the earth (symbolic of the world-wide establishment of His Revelation).  This was, according to Shoghi Effendi, “… a Revelation destined to blossom forth, in a later period into the flourishing institutions of a world-wide administrative System, and to ripen, in the Golden Age as yet unborn, into mighty agencies functioning in consonance with the principles of a world-unifying, world-redeeming Order.”

The Báb publicly announced His Mission during His persecutions, in 1848, when He was brought to Tabríz for trial before a solemn assembly of ecclesiastical dignitaries for His so-called heresy.  The Báb having seated Himself in the empty seat reserved for the heir to the throne, gave His historic and breath-taking answer to the question put to Him by the leaders of that assembly.  In firm and ringing tones He stated:

I am, I am, I am the Promised One!  I am the One Whose name you have for a thousand years invoked, at Whose mention you have risen, Whose advent you have longed to witness, and the hour of Whose Revelation you have prayed to God to hasten.  Verily, I say, it is incumbent upon the peoples of both the East and the West to obey My word, and to pledge allegiance to my person.

The Báb then, with great dignity and firmness disbanded the meeting by Himself rising and leaving the room.  There was great consternation, humiliation and bitter resentment, on the part of the dignitaries.

“And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven, And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer.” [v. 5–6]

Does this mean that there will be no more clocks, watches, calendars, or measurements of time?  No!  Time here means a period of time, as in an Age or a cycle.  Hence, the end of the “time” means the end of the Adamic Cycle.

Pyotr Demianovich Ouspenskii states that there is a larger meaning to these words than just the end of a cycle.  He writes:

… in the changes of the time sense, the beginning of the fourth form of consciousness is expressed, the beginning of the transition to cosmic consciousness.  And the understanding of the fact that the Mystery of Time is the first mystery to be revealed in the first step towards the development of cosmic consciousness, along the intellectual path ….  The words are full of splendour and we may accept them as a symbol of remote and inaccessible Truth.

It was in the evening of 22 May 1844, that the Báb raised His hand to Heaven and made the astounding private Declaration that the Cycle had ended, that a New Day had dawned, and that He was the Prophet-Herald of One greater than Himself, Who would be made manifest, and Who would be the Originator of a new Universal Cycle.

A Prophet of God institutes a new measurement of time, and a new calendar when He appears.  Among different peoples and at different times, many different methods for the measurement of time and the fixing of dates have been adopted.  At least 200 different calendars are in use in the world today.  Some of the more familiar ones are:  the Gregorian calendar in Western Europe and America, the Julian in many countries of Western Europe, the Hebrew among the Jews, and the Moslem calendar.  The importance of this new Revelation in this Day is signalized by the Báb presenting the world with a new calendar that abolishes the lunar and adopts the solar reckoning of time.  Bahá’u’lláh took the calendar of the Báb, modified it, established its authority and declared it as the calendar for the great new Bahá’í Cycle.

The Bahá’í year consists of nineteen months of nineteen days each, (i.e.—three hundred and sixty-one days) with the addition of a few intercalary days (four in an ordinary and five in a leap year) between the eighteenth and nineteenth months in order to adjust the calendar to the solar year.  The Báb named the months after the attributes of God.  The Bahá’í New Year, like the ancient Persian New Year, is astronomically fixed at 21 March, the Vernal Equinox, and the Bahá’í Era commences with the year of the Báb’s Declaration, 21 March 1844, or AH 1260.

Many countries of the world are now beginning to consider the growing imperative need for a world calendar, and it will soon be necessary for all to agree on a calendar that will be adequate for all and free from the objections and associations of those of the past.  There are seven major reasons why the Bahá’í world calendar is the most adequate for the entire world.

1.	It is given by two world Revelators, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

2.	It is astronomically based, beginning at the Spring equinox, 21 March.

3.	It begins a new astronomical Grand Cycle of 500,000 years.

4.	It is adapted to the larger units of time measurements needed for the New Cycle.

5.	It is best conditioned to all countries of the world, and is therefore conducive to unity.

6.	It is in rhythmic time sequence, most simple and convenient.

7.	The names of the days and months and years are a continuous expression of the attributes of God, the first day of each month being the day of Bahá (Splendour), and the last day of each month the day of ‘Alá (Loftiness).

The new larger units of time measurements needed in the New Cycle are:  the wáḥid and the kullu-shay’.  Each cycle of nineteen years is called a wáḥid.  Nineteen wahids form a period called a Kull-i-Shay’.  The word wáhid has a numerical value of nineteen, and means Unity.  The numerical value of kullu-shay’ is 361 and the word means “For the sake of God”.  What could

be more uniting and uplifting than the continual mentioning of the attributes of God by our lips and our lives?

“And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go [and] take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth!  And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little book.  And he said unto me; Take [it], and eat it up; and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.  And I took the little book out of the angel’s hand, and ate it up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey:  and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter.” [v. 8–10]

John was commanded to take the little Book that had been opened by the Báb for the first time in history, and to eat it.  Does this mean to “eat up” the Book of Revelation as many interpret it?  Does this mean to “eat up” the Christian Bible?  What does it mean?  Would it mean to take the truth as revealed by all the Revelators?  Is it not sweet to the taste but difficult and bitter to live it?  It becomes sweet within when it becomes part of our inner being, and then nobility becomes the accent of our lives.

Bahá’u’lláh explains how to attain the goal of nobility in these words:

… when a true seeker determineth to take the step of search in the path leading to the knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must, before all else, cleanse and purify his heart, which is the seat of the revelation of the inner mysteries of God, from the obscuring dust of all acquired knowledge, and the allusions of the embodiments of satanic fancy.

At the dawn of every day he should commune with God, and with all his soul persevere in the quest of his Beloved.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained the proof of nobility in these soul stirring words:

The necessity and the particularity of the assured and the believing ones is to be firm in the Cause of God and withstand the hidden and evident tests.  Thanks be to God that you are distinguished and made eminent by this blessing.  Anybody can be happy in the state of comfort, ease, health, success, pleasure and joy; but if one will be happy and contented in the time of trouble, hardship and prevailing disease, it is the proof of nobility.  Thanks be to God that that dear servant of God is extremely patient under the disastrous circumstances, and in the

place of complaining gives thanks.

The expression of the heavenly qualities at all times enables one to manifest nobility as the accent of life.

11
The two witnesses
—four and twenty elders

God Speaks:

“For never have I left
My Word without a Witness unto Me.”

Some scientists say that man is the product of his thinking.  William James, 1882–1910, said, “The greatest discovery of my generation is, that people can alter their lives and the world by their thinking.”  The Christian Bible states:  “For as he (man) thinketh in his heart, so [is] he ….”  Does one alter his thinking unaided?  No.  Agnostics seem to be unable to change their thinking to recognize the station of the Prophets of God Who reveal the laws and principles, and release the power for the next step forward in both the material and spiritual civilizations.  The power released by Moses, Zoroaster, Jesus and all the other Prophets was, in each case, the cause of the spiritual and material progress of humanity.  A typical example of the birth of a new civilization occurred in CE 622.

Suddenly in a dark and barbarous country, Arabia, a great Soul arose Who was not like the other Arabs.  Muḥammad smashed their idols of pictures and images, gave them new laws, and altered their ancient customs.  For all this He was persecuted and tortured, as is everyone who smashes idols.  Today the idols of man’s own imaginations are being smashed.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that “… idols at least have a mineral existence, while the idols of thoughts and the imaginations of man are but fancies; they have not even mineral existence.”  Many people are unaware that there are a number of chapters in the Bible that refer to the Islamic Dispensation.

In the very first verse of the first chapter of the Book of Revelation, Jesus gives the purpose of the book, “to show unto his

servants things which must shortly come to pass.”  These events have occurred since CE 96, as He foretold.

“And there was given me a reed like unto a rod:  and the angel stood saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that the worship therein.” [v. 1]  A reed is a hollow stick that was used in Biblical times as a measuring rod.  The only flawless measuring rod for judging a temple or people is the Manifestation of God, the Prophet and the law that He brings.  That is the measuring rod.  Here He is commanded to measure the temple, the altar and them that worship closest to the Word of God and to the Law of God.  These are the ones who should be measured first.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá has likened the reed to the perfect man:

This reed is a Perfect Man Who is likened to a reed, and the manner of its likeness is this:  when the interior of a reed is empty and free from all matter, it will produce beautiful melodies; and as the sound and melodies do not come from the reed, but from the flute player who blows upon it, so the sanctified heart of that blessed Being is free and emptied from all save God, pure and exempt from the attachments of all human conditions, and is the companion of the Divine Spirit.  Whatever He utters is not from Himself, but from the real flute player, and it is a divine inspiration.  That is why He is likened to a reed; and that reed is … the rod of the Divine Shepherd by which He guards His flock and leads them about the pastures of the Kingdom.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá also said:

The purport is this, that certain souls guided (people) with a rod of the plant, that is, a reed wherewith he shepherded the sheep, like unto the rod of Moses; other trained (the people) with a rod of iron and drove them, as in the time of Muḥammad (The sceptre of Muḥammad was the sword).  In this Greatest Day the rod of the plant and the rod of iron are changed into a rod which is of pure gold and is from the endless treasuries of the Kingdom of God.

“But the court which is without the temple, leave out, and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles:  and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty [and] two months.” [v.2]  The key is given in Ezekiel 4:6.  “I have appointed thee each day for a year.”  Forty and two months” then, would be 1,260 years, and refers to the complete Islamic Dispensation.  There are many references in the Bible foretelling the 1,260 years that can only be understood historically as the Dispensation of Muḥammad.

The year AH 1260 lunar time, corresponds to CE 1844 solar time, the date when the Báb made His Declaration.  The year 1844 is symbolically referred to more often than any other date in the Sacred Writings.

“And I will give [power] unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophecy a thousand two hundred [and] three score days, clothed in sackcloth.” [v.3]  A thousand two hundred and three score days is, again, 1,260 years, that is, the complete Islamic Dispensation.  The two witnesses, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, are Muḥammad, the Messenger of God, and ‘Alí, son of Abú Ṭálib.  Muḥammad was the “Sun” of His Dispensation; ‘Alí was the “Moon” reflecting His light, being the first one to herald the station of Muḥammad.

“These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before God of the earth.” [v. 4]  “These” are also referred to in Ezekiel and in Daniel, and they are the same “two witnesses” Muḥammad and ‘Alí.  All lamps, at that time, were fuelled by olive oil, and the candlestick is the abode of the light, and from it the light shines forth.  Similarly, the light of guidance would shine and radiate from these illumined souls.

“And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies:  and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed.  These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy; and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.  And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them.” [v.5–7]

That They are ‘Standing before the God of the earth” signifies that They are standing in the service of God.  Also They are educating the creatures of God, such as the wild, barbarous tribes of Arabia, who were educated in such a way that they reached the highest degree of knowledge known in those days, and their fame became known world-wide.

These Witnesses brought the Law of God.  If one failed to observe that Law, or belittled it, that very Law would become the means of his destruction.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that in this prophecy, “rain” means bounty.  The Law and Teachings of Muḥammad

and of ‘Alí are the bounties that They can either give or withhold.  “The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit” (as before stated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá) means the Banú Umayyah, the dynasty of the Umayyad, who attacked them, the two witnesses, from the pit of error, and who rose against the religion of Muḥammad and against the reality of ‘Alí—in other words, against the love of God.  This means that the beast would destroy the love of God in the spiritual life of the people, treading underfoot the true Message of Muḥammad until only a lifeless body would remain in the hands of the official ‘Ulamá.

“And their dead bodies [shall lie] in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.  And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and a half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves.  And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on earth.” [v. 8–10]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:

… The meaning of ‘Sodom and Egypt,’ the place ‘where also our Lord was crucified,’ is this region of Syria, and especially Jerusalem, where the Umayyads then had their dominions; and it was here that the Religion of God and the divine teachings first disappeared, and a body without spirit remained.  ‘Their bodies’ represents the Religion of God, which remained like a dead body without spirit.

The Holy Books symbolize the “three days and a half” as three years and a half, or forty-two months, which is equal to 1,260 days or years, the entire Dispensation of Muḥammad.  The body was not completely destroyed, as the outward form including prayer and fasting was still preserved, but the spiritual teachings of morals, conduct and knowledge of the divine mysteries had disappeared.  Tyranny, oppression and satanic passions became victorious over the Law of God, until truthfulness, justice, love, purity, detachment, sanctity and nobility disappeared, and gross darkness covered the land.  In the study of this period of darkness, corruption, pretence and immorality that marked Islamic lands, we see how a people, who had attained the summit of power, became degraded and down-trodden because they had “killed” the Law of God.  “It was like the darkest hour before the dawn, when the few lamps and candles that remain alight do little more than make the darkness visible.”

“And after three days and a half the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them.  And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither.  And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.” [v. 11–12]

After the three and one half days, twelve hundred and sixty years, Jesus here foretells that the Law of God revealed by Muḥammad and taught by ‘Alí would again have life and bounty from heaven, and would illumine the darkness.  Now the scene changes.  In fulfilment of this animating prophecy, a Morning Star named the Báb appeared in Persia, in 1844, Whose Light began to push back the blinding clouds of darkness.  The Light of Truth shone forth, the Holy Breezes were diffused, the Morn of Guidance dawned, and the Life-giving Spring gushed out, bringing joy, gladness and progress for a New Age.

What is the significance of those words “Come up hither!” [v. 12]  It was as though God was calling His Chosen Messenger, the Báb, and Quddús, the Báb’s beloved disciple.  The Báb, also like Jesus Christ, raised the Call of God, delivered His Message, revealed His Law, and would attain the sublime station of Martyrdom.  Quddús likewise was destined to be martyred.

Like the crucifixion of Jesus, the martyrdom of the Báb is one of the most soul-stirring dramas of all human history.  It was on 9 July 1850, that the Báb, Who was then in His thirty–first year, became a victim of the fanatical fury of His persecutors.  Along with a devoted young follower, Áqá Muḥammad ‘Alí, who had begged to be allowed to share His Martyrdom, the Báb was led to the execution post in the public square of Tabríz.  The high-born youth, in spite of the pleas and entreaties of his family and friends, was overjoyed on being permitted to die with his beloved Lord.  Thousands of excited spectators gathered on the roofs and in the streets and open spaces, eager to watch the public execution.  It was two hours before noon.  The two young men were suspended by ropes to the execution post.  The young disciple begged to have his body placed so as to shield his Master’s, and so they were bound and suspended, the head of the boy resting on the breast of the Prophet.

A regiment of Armenian Christian soldiers was drawn up and received the order to fire.  Seven hundred and fifty rifles discharged their

bullets at the blessed Target.  So dense was the smoke that the sky was darkened.  When the smoke cleared away, the petrified and astonished multitude of ten thousand beheld an electrifying scene they could scarcely believe.  The Báb had vanished from their sight; the youth stood alive and unharmed beside the wall where they had been suspended.  The ropes by which they had been hung alone were severed.  ‘The Siyyid-i-Báb has gone from our sight!’ exclaimed the bewildered spectators.

The Báb was soon found giving His last message to His amanuensis, inside the prison, where He had earlier said to His captors:  “Not until I have said all those things that I wish to say can any earthly power silence Me.  Though all the world be armed against Me yet shall it be powerless to deter Me from fulfilling, to the last word, My intention.”  When the Báb had finished His dictation, He turned to the chief gaoler and said:  “I have finished My conversation with Siyyid Ḥusayn.  Now you may proceed to fulfil your intention.”  The Colonel of the Armenian regiment, shaken by what had happened, ordered his men to immediately leave the barracks and swore never again to resume that task, even if it cost him his life.

A Muslim colonel volunteered to replace him and another regiment was assembled.  The Báb and the youth were again suspended on the same wall.  The Báb gazed at the bloodthirsty multitude and addressed them in these awe-inspiring words:

O wayward generation!  Had you believed in Me, every one of you would have followed the example of this youth, who stood in the rank above most of you, and would have willingly sacrificed himself in My path.  The day will come when you will have recognized Me, that day I shall have ceased to be with you.”  Seven hundred and fifty bullets riddled the two bodies that were later thrown outside the city wall into the desolate moat beyond.

The faces of the Báb and Áqá Muḥammad ‘Alí were miraculously spared.  More than this, Shoghi Effendi states, at the very moment that the shots were fired, a violent gale swept the city, obscured the light of the sun and blinded the eyes of the people.  In Shíráz, an earthquake as foretold in Revelation 11:13, occurred after the Báb’s execution in Tabríz (in the province of Fárs).  The earthquake threw the whole city of Shíráz into turmoil and wrought havoc among its people—a havoc greatly aggravated by cholera, famine and other afflictions!

This was similar to the earthquake at the time of the martyrdom of Jesus, when the veil of the temple was rent.

By this foul deed, the prison square of Tabríz became a second Calvary.  The enemies of the Báb enjoyed a guilty thrill of triumph, thinking they had severed the root of the Bábí Faith.  However, their triumph was short lived; they did not realize that the Tree of Truth can not be severed by material acts, nor can the creative organic processes set in motion by Divine Revelation be thwarted.

“And the same hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand:  and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven.” [v. 13]

When the earthquake took place in Fárs [Shíráz, the birth place of the Báb, is also the capital of Fárs province], all the remnant lamented and cried day and night, and were occupied in glorifying and praying to God.  They were so troubled and affrighted that they had no sleep nor rest at night.

“The second woe is past; [and], behold, the third woe cometh quickly.” [v. 14]  The first woe refers to the Dispensation of Muḥammad, the second woe to that of the Báb, and the third woe to the great Day of the Manifestation of the Lord of Hosts, Bahá’u’lláh.  The third woe occurred only nineteen years after that of the Báb.  Each Dispensation is a woe to the unbelievers, the doubters, and to those who are disobedient to the Laws of God.

“And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, ‘The kingdoms of this world are become [the kingdoms] of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.’  And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, Saying, We give thee thanks O Lord God Almighty, which art, and wast, and are to come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.” [v. 15–17]

The seventh angel is a human being endowed with heavenly attributes who will proclaim the Manifestation of the Lord of Hosts and the Kingdom of God upon the earth.

Such is the day of God.  For all the days which have come and gone were the days of Abraham, Moses and Christ, or of the other Prophets; but this day is the day of God, for the Sun of Reality will arise in it with the utmost warmth and splendour.

The four and twenty elders are the disciples or holy souls.

So Jacob had twelve sons; in the time of Moses there were twelve heads or chiefs of the tribes; in the time of Christ there were twelve Apostles; and in the time of Muḥammad there were twelve Imams.  But in this glorious manifestation there are twenty-four, double the number of all the others, for the greatness of this manifestation requires it.

They bowed before the One upon the Throne in gratitude and thanksgiving, and in recognition of the greatness of His Mission to establish peace and unity upon the earth.

“… and he shall reign forever and ever.” [v. 15]  Many people think that the word “forever” is synonymous with the word “eternal”.  However, it does not mean “eternal”:  it is translated from an Aramaic word meaning “for a great cycle”.  So the Light of Bahá’u’lláh will interpenetrate the world for a very long time, “for a great cycle”.

“And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldst give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldst destroy them which destroy the earth.  And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament:  and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.” [v. 18–19]

The nations were angry, for the disturbing teachings of the Prophet oppose the iniquities and corruptions of their affairs and of their lives.  “The time of the dead that they should be judged” refers to the Judgement Day, when all things are measured, tested and tried, and when the spiritually deaf, dumb and blind are deprived and the destroyers are measured and destroyed.

A beautiful statement is that the “temple of God was opened in heaven” and the “ark of His (God’s) Testament” became visible.  The “ark of His Testament” refers here to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, son of Bahá’u’lláh, and the Centre of His Covenant.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is extolled by the Revealer of the Apocalypse (Jesus Christ) as “the Ark of His (God’s) Testament;” glorified by Bahá’u’lláh in certain passages of His Writings, as the “Ark of Salvation” and as “The Cord stretched betwixt the earth and the Abhá Kingdom.”  “‘… the temple of God was opened in heaven’.  This “… means also that by the diffusion of the divine teachings, the appearance

of these heavenly mysteries, and the rising of the Sun of Reality, the doors of success and prosperity will be opened in all directions, and the signs of goodness and heavenly benedictions will be made plain.”

“And there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail,” [Rev. 11:19.] meaning that after the appearance of the Book of the Testament there will be a great storm, and the lightnings of the anger and the wrath of God will flash, the noise of the thunder of the violation of the Covenant will resound, the earthquake of doubts will take place, the hail of torments will beat upon the violators of the Covenant, and even those who profess belief will fall into trials and temptations.

How much must man quaff of the cup of suffering and be deprived, ere he turns his heart to God?  Jesus proclaimed, “Blessed [are] the pure in heart, for they shall see God.”

12
The woman
—the great red dragon

… this woman is the Law of God.

Times, Times and Half a Time Fulfilled.

The amazing scene in the world drama changes, and a great red dragon appears.  The twelfth chapter is very interesting, and has given rise to many different interpretations, some of which are so remote that they are confusing and amazing, and they do not bring any enlightenment.  However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has given us a number of Keys to this chapter that are most illuminating.

The first verse describes a great wonder:

“And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:  And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered.” [v. 1–2]

Figuratively, the woman symbolizes the Law of God in the heaven of religion.  Jesus refers to a woman as the Law of God in Revelation 21:2:  “… coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.”  The woman in this chapter is that bride, the Law of God, revealed by Muḥammad.  She was clothed with the light of the “Sun of Reality” from the Prophet in the day and age in which He appears.

Symbolically the “sun” and the “moon” refer to the two Islamic nations, Persia and Turkey, that use these symbols.  The emblem of Persia is the sun, and that of Turkey is the crescent moon, the two most powerful nations of Islám.  “Upon her head a crown of twelve stars” is the symbol, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, of the twelve Imams who were the promulgators of the Law of Muḥammad and the educators of the people, thus shining like stars in the heaven of guidance.  Thus, we see that the twelve successive Imams are “the stars in her crown” as foretold by Jesus.

“And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered.  And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.  And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth:  and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born.” [v.2–4]

History records that the Law of Muḥammad fell into great difficulties and endured great afflictions.  This will continue until a perfect offspring is produced through Fáṭima and the twelve Imams.  That means the Promised One of the Law of Muḥammad was reared in the bosom of this Law that mothered Him.  This “Child” is recognized as His Holiness the Báb, the lineal descendant of Muḥammad, the Primal Point, He Who was born of the Law of Muḥammad, was nurtured by that Law, and Who became manifest on earth 1,260 years after that Law was promulgated, thus fulfilling the prophecies of Jesus Christ and Muḥammad.

The second great wonder in heaven was “a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns upon his heads.  And his tail drew the third part of the stars in heaven, and did cast them to the earth.”  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that these signs allude to the dynasty of the Umayyads who dominated the Moslem religion.  The seven heads and seven crowns mean the seven dominions over which the Banú Umayyah had power.  These countries, controlled by the fanatical ecclesiastical power of the Banú Umayyah, were:  the Roman dominion around Damascus; the Persian, Arabian, and Egyptian dominions; the dominion of Africa (Tunis, Morocco, and Algeria); the dominion of Andalusia (now Spain); and the dominions of Turkistán and Transoxania.  These ten countries comprised Islám, but only seven of them had rulers, the others being provinces, or mandates.

The “Ten Horns” denote, without repetition the ten different names of the Umayyad rulers, as follows:

1.	Abú-Sufyán, who opposed Muḥammad, CE 610–632.  (He was not a Caliph.)

2.	Uthmán, third Caliph, CE 644–656.

3.	Mu‘áwíyah I, sixth Caliph, CE 661–680 and Mu‘áwíyah II, CE 683–4, eighth Caliph.

4.	Yazíd I, seventh Caliph, CE 680–683; Yazíd II, fourteenth Caliph, CE 720–724 and Yazíd III, seventeenth Caliph, CE 744.

5.	Marwán I, ninth Caliph, CE 683–685, Marwán II, eighteenth Caliph, CE 744–750 (the last of the Umayyad Caliphs).

6.	‘Abdu’l-Malik, tenth Caliph, CE 685–705

7.	Walíd I, eleventh Caliph, CE 705–715 and Walíd II, sixteenth Caliph, CE 743–744

8.	Sulaymán, twelfth Caliph, CE 715 to 717

9.	‘Umar II, thirteenth Caliph, CE 717 to 730

10.	Hishám, fifteenth Caliph, CE 724 to 743

The Umayyad, rulers symbolize the tail of the ecclesiastical system that destroyed the third part of the saintly and holy people of the lineage of Muḥammad who were like “the stars of heaven”.

“And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron:  and her child was caught up unto God, and [to] his throne.  And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred [and] three score days.” [v.5–6]

The dragon stood before the woman, which is the Law of God as revealed by Muḥammad and expressed through the genealogical line of Fáṭima and the twelve Imams.  The child was the promised Manifestation, the off-spring of the Law of Muḥammad and for Whom the Banú Umayyah were always looking that they might destroy Him, fearing the loss of their power.  A similar situation occurred when Herod feared the loss of his power at the time of Jesus, when he had all new-born male infants killed.  In like manner the Banú Umayyah sought to kill any of Muḥammad’s descendants who was highly esteemed and might be the Promised One.  This man child, this Son that was born of the Law of God, on 20 October 1819 in Shíráz, Persia, was the Báb.  He would rule, not with a sword, but with a “rod of iron” that is the symbol of His spiritual power and might.  It means that, with the power of the Word of God, He would spiritually protect all the nations of the earth and take them to Bahá’u’lláh Who would lead them like a shepherd into the great New Cycle of Unity and Peace.

This child appeared in the midst of the “… most decadent race in the civilized world, grossly ignorant, savage, cruel, steeped in prejudice, servile in their submission to an almost deified hierarchy, recalling in their abjectness the Israelites of Egypt in the days of Moses, in their fanaticism the Jews in the days of Jesus, and in their perversity the idolaters of Arabia in the days of Muḥammad.  Into such a world this child was born, Who became noted for His great personal beauty and charm, love of mankind, nobility of character and great spiritual wisdom and power.

It is interesting to note the many Bible references to 1,260 years, the length of the Islamic Dispensation.  In Daniel it is expressed as  “a time, times, and half a time”, which is three and a half years or forty two months, and equals twelve hundred and sixty days.  In Ezekiel 4–6, we learn that a day is a year in the sight of the Lord, and this is the Key to the prophecies.  The woman, the personification of the Law of God, fled to the wilderness, meaning the vast desert of Ḥijáz, and the Arabian Peninsula that became the abode and dwelling-place of the Law of God for 1,260 years.  At the end of this time the promised One, the fruit of that Law, appeared in the person of His Holiness the Báb.

It was on 23 May 1844, (AH 1260) unheeded by the world’s leaders, that the Báb made one of the greatest pronouncements of all time, when He stated that, “Behold the Cycle of Adam hath ended!  A New Day hath dawned!  And He Whom God hath made manifest is come!”  It was the end of the Islamic Dispensation, and the fulfilment of the twelve hundred and sixty year period, and the end of the 6,000 year Adamic cycle.

“And there was war in heaven:  Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.  And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world:  he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.  And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ:  for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night.” [v. 7–10]

The great emphasis here is that at last there is the glad

announcement that the line of salvation and the dawn of a New Day have come.  The transforming spiritual power of the Báb has closed the old Cycle, opened a new, and has brought the regenerating Spirit of the Word of God again to mankind.

“And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.  Therefore rejoice, [ye] heavens, and ye that dwell in them.  Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.  And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man [child].  And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.  And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.  And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.  And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.” [v. 11–17]

This clearly explains that the woman, that is, the Law of God, was protected throughout the Islamic Dispensation, until the coming of the Báb, in 1844.  She was nourished in her place in the wilderness of Arabia, for a time, and times, and half a time.  In those days, a “time” was recognized as the number of degrees in a circle, that is, three hundred and sixty degrees.  “Times” would be twice that or seven hundred and twenty degrees.  “Half a time” would be one hundred and eighty degrees.  Adding all these together, the whole period would be twelve hundred and sixty years, the length of the Islamic Dispensation, in lunar years.  This was from CE 622 to 1844 when translated to solar years, since AH 1260 corresponds to CE 1844.  The Bible, with unfailing persistence from beginning to end, has again given that date, 1844, as the initiation of the great new Bahá’í Cycle, signalized by the Declaration of the Báb and His momentous pronouncement, heralding One greater than Himself.  The serpent, or dragon, failed to sweep away the Law

of Muḥammad by the flood of false teachings, and His true teachings could not be destroyed since Muḥammad was the Manifestation of reality.  “Moses, Christ, Muḥammad were the manifestations of reality.  Bahá’u’lláh was the glory of reality.”

13
Two strange beasts 666
—the letters of the living

Not until man is tried doth the pure gold distinctly separate from the dross.  Torment is the fire of test wherein the pure gold shineth resplendently and the impurity is burned and blackened.

But for tribulations, how could the assured be distinguished from the doubters among Thy servants?

The amazing panorama of this chapter presents what might be called a three dimensional glimpse of history.  It is important to know more of the dramatic story of Islám to understand better the ensuing events.

When we review the conditions existing in the East prior to the rise of the Prophet of Arabia, we find that throughout the Arabian Peninsula intense spiritual darkness and utmost ignorance prevailed among the inhabitants.  Those tribal peoples were constantly engaged in war, killing, burning, pillaging, and living in conditions of the most extreme debasement and immorality.  Some were even lower and more brutal than the wild animals.  To such people God sent Muḥammad as a Prophet.  He educated those barbarous tribes, lifted them out of their ignorance and savagery, began to establish agreement and reconciliation among them, and taught them to look upon each other as brothers.  He forbade the practice of burying girl babies alive, and all other inhuman acts.  Through His education they reached such a high degree of civilization that they governed nations, continents, and peoples.  What a great civilization was established in Spain by the Muslims!  What marvellous culture radiated from Baghdád as a centre, whose new arts and sciences penetrated even to darkened Europe!

Islám gave algebra to the world; it spread the Arabic system of ten numerals, plane and spherical trigonometry, and invented the trigonometric functions—sine, cosine, tangent, cotangent, secant and cosecant.  In physics, Muslim scientists invented the

pendulum and produced works on optics.  They made great progress in the science of astronomy.  They built observatories and constructed many astronomical instruments that are still in use.  They calculated the angle of the ecliptic and the procession of the equinoxes.  At the time when the practice of medicine was forbidden in Europe by the church, the Arabs had developed a real science of medicine.  They made great advances over the Greeks, and many of their methods of treatment of disease are still in use today.  In chemistry they discovered many new substances, such as potash, nitrate of silver, sulphuric acid, alcohol, etc.  They knew how to produce new varieties of fruits and flowers.  Their fine art of paper making was one of their greatest contributions to progress.  They surpassed the rest of the world in beauty of design and workmanship.  In fine textile fabrics, they have scarcely been equalled.  Although the Islamic civilization reached a very high peak and contributed much to the progress of the world, yet because of the intrigues, political and religious corruptions, wars and fanatical atrocities, its spiritual downfall began about CE 750.  Its fame and renown, however, had spread throughout the world, proving that Muḥammad was, in truth, the Prophet and Messenger of God.

“And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as [the feet] of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.  And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.  And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast: and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who [is] like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him?  And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty [and] two months.” [v. 2–5]

Cruel and ambitious leaders failed to live according to the teachings of Muḥammad after His passing, and wars and dissensions arose through their lust for power.  From CE 661 to 760, this leadership was focused in the Umayyad dynasty of Caliphs whose seat of government was Damascus.  This dynasty, or Banú Umayyah, held sway over ten countries, and represents the

“red dragon” that gave power to the two beasts.

The first “beast” mentioned in this chapter of the Book of Revelation, is according to Shoghi Effendi, Mu‘áwíyah, sixth Caliph and first of the corrupt line of the Umayyad rulers.  Shoghi Effendi explained this to the author and to the members of the International Council in Haifa.  Mu‘áwíyah seized the Caliphate by force from Ḥasan, the son of ‘Alí, paid him 5,000,000 dirhems for abdicating, and promised that Ḥasan would be restored to the position on his death.  However, he made the Caliphate hereditary by appointing his dissolute son, Yazíd, as his successor.  Washington Irving, in Mahomet and His Successors, explains the corruption and intrigue of those days.  Muḥammad had several times designated the pure-hearted ‘Alí, his cousin and son-in-law, as His successor, to be followed by his lineal descendants, but had not put it in writing.  Mu‘áwíyah, was appointed Governor of Syria by his kinsman ‘Uthmán, the third Caliph.  When ‘Alí was selected as the fourth Caliph, Mu‘áwíyah, rose in rebellion against him, and plunged the Islamic Empire into fratricidal civil war.  After losing Egypt to ‘Amr ibn al-‘Áṣ, ‘Alí planned another assault on Syria to quell the rebellion of Mu‘áwíyah.  About this time, in CE 650, three fanatical zealots met as pilgrims in the Mosque at Mecca, and fell to lamenting over the dissensions and dismemberment of the Muslim Empire, all of which they attributed to the so-called ambitions of ‘Alí, Mu‘áwíyah and ‘Amr ibn al-‘Áṣ.  In their infuriate zeal they determined that the only way to restore peace and unity to Islám was for each of them to assassinate one of these three leaders.  Barak went to Damascus, mingled in the retinue of Mu‘áwíyah as he was officiating in the Mosque as pontiff, and gave Mu‘áwíyah what he considered a fatal blow.  The wound was desperate, but Mu‘áwíyah’s life was saved by drastic remedies.  “And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed:  and all the world wondered after the beast.” [v. 3]

The assassin who went after ‘Amr ibn al-‘Áṣ killed another man by mistake.  The only one who succeeded in his mission was ‘Abdu’l-Raḥmán, who struck ‘Alí a mortal blow as he entered the Mosque at Kúfa.  ‘Alí died three days later and was succeeded by his son Ḥasan, who was soon forced to resign in favour of Mu‘áwíyah.  Such was the bitter hatred engendered by Mu‘áwíyah against ‘Alí that his name was never mentioned in the Mosques

without curses and execrations, and this continued throughout the rule of the Umayyad Caliphs and for centuries thereafter.  The noble and generous character of ‘Alí was exemplified in the recorded circumstances of his life.  He derived his religious spirit from his association with Muḥammad Himself, and followed to the last the simplicity and nobility of His example.  His signet ring bore the inscription:  “The kingdom belongs to God”.  One of his sayings shows the little value he set upon the transitory glories of this world.  “Life is but the shadow of a cloud; the dream of a sleeper.”  ‘Alí is said to have been born at the Ka‘ba, or Holy Temple of Mecca, where his mother, while praying, was suddenly taken in labour.  ‘Alí was the only person of such distinguished birth.

Mu‘áwíyah, was crafty, treacherous like a leopard, ambitious, unjust, deceitful and scandalously greedy.  He was guilty of intrigues, duplicity, murders and atrocities in his wars against ‘Alí and his adherents.  He used money freely in buying off his opponents.

“And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.  And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.” [v. 11–12]

The second “beast” in this chapter is personified by Yazíd, eldest son of Mu‘áwíyah who was evil-minded, licentious, cruel, ambitious, crafty and treacherous.  He is accused by Arabian historians of having instigated the murder of the pure-hearted Ḥasan, who was to resume the Caliphate on the death of Mu‘áwíyah.  It was the intention of Mu‘áwíyah, to name his son, Yazíd, as his successor without the customary election.  Yazíd knew that Ḥasan was strong in the affections of the people, so he decided to remove such a dangerous rival from his path.  It is said that Yazíd prevailed upon one of Ḥasan’s wives to poison him, promising to marry her as a reward for her treason.  In Ḥasan’s last agonies, his brother Ḥusayn asked who had poisoned him, that he might avenge his death, but Ḥasan held his tongue.  “This world,” said he, “is only a long night; leave him alone until he and I shall meet in open daylight, in the presence of the

Most High.”  The Báb was a descendant of Ḥusayn and His disciple Quddús was a descendant of Ḥasan, the two sons of Fáṭima.

The Caliph Yazíd reigned only three years and a half, being cut down in the flower of his days, say the Muslim historians, because of his godless impiety in ordering the sacking of Medina, the burial place of the Prophet; for the latter had predicted, “Whoever injureth Medina, shall melt away even as salt melteth in water.”

There are many accounts of the internecine slaughter, the rapine and revolting atrocities during the Caliphates of Mu‘áwíyah and Yazíd, the two “beasts”.  The Shí‘ah sect of Islám holds their memory in abhorrence, charging Yazíd with the deaths of the Imams Ḥasan and Ḥusayn, and accompanies his name with the imprecation, “May he be accursed of God!”  The Sunni Sect, on the other hand, has throughout the centuries held the name of ‘Alí and his descendants in execration, and has eulogized Mu‘áwíyah, and Yazíd.

“Here is wisdom.  Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast:  for it is the number of a man; and his number [is] Six hundred threescore [and] six.” [v. 18]

There are many strange interpretations of the “Beast with the number 666”.  However, according to Shoghi Effendi, it was Mu‘áwíyah, who desecrated the Shrine at the birthplace of Muḥammad in Mecca and ordered the sacking of Medina, the burial place of the Prophet.  He tried to make Damascus the Ka‘ba of the Muslim world.  This dastardly event, foretold by Jesus more than 500 years before, occurred in CE 666.

“And he had power to give life to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.” [v. 15]

The “image of the beast” occurred at the time of the martyrdom of the Báb in 1850.

These tragedies and conquests that raged around Damascus, Egypt and the deserts of Arabia, foretold and given as warnings in the Book of Revelation by the Lord Jesus Christ in CE 96 had a great influence in foreshadowing the religious history of the world.  The “image of the beast” lived on in the bigoted ecclesiastical system of Islám, and its recrudescence was witnessed in the

persecutions and martyrdoms of the Báb and His followers more than eleven centuries later.

The Báb was loved most devotedly by all, as long as He was only a merchant and ordinary citizen.  In May 1844, the Báb made His first private Declaration of His great Mission to Mullá Ḥusayn, His first disciple, that He was the Báb, the Gate of God, and “the Promised One”.  However, the heartless persecutions began in December 1844 when He made a similar declaration to Mírzá Muḥíṭ in Mecca and delivered the Message of God to the Sherif of Mecca, calling him to embrace the Cause of God.  The envious hirelings and sycophants of Persia, the Church-State leaders, were incensed by activities such as the following:

•	The Báb publicly proclaimed, in the presence of the heir to the Persian throne and the assembled dignitaries of Tabríz, “… I am the Promised One!  I am the One Whose name you have for a thousand years invoked ….”

•	The Báb wrote to Muḥammad Sháh, “I am the Primal Point from which have been generated all created things.  I am the Countenance of God Whose splendour can never be obscured, the Light of God Whose radiance can never fade ….”

•	The Báb poured forth with His speeding pen epistles, commentaries and dissertations with such profusion that it amounted to the superhuman accomplishment of 500,000 verses.

•	The Báb sent forth His Disciples, the Letters of the Living, His chosen messengers, to “prepare the way of the Lord”.

•	Multitudes turned to Him and were stirred to new life by His Spirit.

Hence, the religious leaders ordered the most cruel atrocities and oppressions to extinguish the Flame lighted by the new Prophet, despite proofs of His Station of Prophethood being clearly established.

Never before in all recorded history have there been such revolting, unspeakably cruel tortures and vicious persecutions as those wreaked upon the followers of the Báb by His arch-enemies, the notoriously degraded and corrupt Shí‘ah priesthood.  “The willing tools who prostituted their high office for the accomplishment of the enemy’s designs were no less than the sovereigns of the Qájár dynasty (then ruling in Persia) ….  The arch-villains who joined hands with the prime movers of so wicked a conspiracy were the two grand vizirs, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, the idolized tutor of Muḥammad Sháh, a vulgar, false-hearted and fickle-minded schemer, and the arbitrary, bloodthirsty, reckless Amír-Niẓám, Mírzá Taqí Khán ….  Their accomplice in these and other heinous crimes

was a government bolstered up by a flock of idle, parasitical princelings and governors, corrupt, incompetent, tenaciously holding to their ill-gotten privileges ….

“… and power was given unto him to continue forty [and] two months.” [v. 5]  As we have seen before, forty and two months signifies twelve hundred and sixty years, the length of the Islamic Dispensation, that ended in 1844 with the Declaration of the Báb.  The Báb’s martyrdom and the revolting blood bath of His followers may be considered as the continuing power of the red dragon, the ecclesiastical system of Islám that gave power unto the “beasts”. [v. 14–18]  Jesus Christ, in CE 96, looking into the as yet unrevealed vistas of the future, in this remarkable Book of Revelation, has disclosed consecutive events of interrelated history and symbols, foretelling “things that would come to pass hereafter”.  Today we can look back on their fulfilment in the Christian and Islamic dispensations, and forward towards the continued unfoldment of the New Cycle of human progress inaugurated by His Holiness the Báb.

The names of the “beasts” have become symbols of ignominy and degradation, whereas thousands honour and have testified to the sincerity of their love and devotion to the Báb, by the sacrifice of their lives and their all in His service.  Kings and rulers might well envy His quickening and regenerating power over the lives and hearts of men.  His eighteen disciples, the illustrious Letters of the Living, unhesitatingly laid down their lives for Him, and one and all quaffed the cup of martyrdom.

The Báb’s followers were fired with “… a spirit exalted, unquenchable, and awe-inspiring, a knowledge surprisingly profound, an eloquence sweeping in its force, a piety unexcelled in fervour, a courage leonine in its fierceness, a self-abnegation saintly in its purity, a resolve granite-like in its firmness, a vision stupendous in its range, a veneration for the Prophet and His Imams disconcerting to their adversaries … a standard of faith and a code of conduct that challenged and revolutionized the lives of their countrymen.”

14
The time of harvest
—the angels and the sickles

“Thus the Day of Resurrection is also the Day of Judgement, in which corruptions and imitations of the truth and outworn ideas and customs are discarded … and energies long frozen and pent up are released to flood and renovate the world.”

The astonishing scene changes again.  “And I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Zion, and with him a hundred forty [and] four thousand, having his Father’s name written in their foreheads.” [v. 1]

Chapter VII gives the description of the sealing of the hundred and forty–four thousand who, as it states, are those only who are “The servants of God”, that is, those who rise to serve Him “before” the great tribulations force them to turn to God.  Those who have gained the “Universal or Nine Consciousness” in the recognition of all the prophets of God, are the “Chosen Ones” of God.  If a person denies any one of the nine Divine Revelators, how can he have gained the “Unified or Nine Consciousness?”  This is clearly explained in Chapter VII.

In the seventh chapter it was also explained that the “servants of God” were sealed with the “Seal of the living God”.  Here is a further explanation—that they are sealed with the “Father’s name in their foreheads.”

References in all the Holy Books to “The Father” have two different connotations that have not been clearly understood.  One refers to the Father as the Infinite Essence.  The other considers the Father prophetically as the Great One to come into the world at the end of the Cycle in the station of Fatherhood.  Jesus stated that the Kingdom of the Father is to he established upon the earth, as well as in heaven.  He taught us to pray:  “Our Father Who art in heaven ….  Thy Kingdom Come, Thy will be

done in earth as it is in heaven ….”  Christians have invoked God by this prayer for nearly two thousand years.  Jesus told His disciples:  “But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, [even] the Spirit of Truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me.”

The Aramaic language, which Jesus spoke, has no neuter gender.  When Jesus referred to the Infinite Essence, or Spirit or Breath of God, “Pneuma” (Greek for spirit), He used the pronoun “Shin”.  When He alluded to the One to come in the station of the Father, He used the pronoun “Wo”.  In the above verse, and in many others in the Gospels, He spoke prophetically of the Divine One to come in masculine human form, bearing witness of Jesus Christ.  In the Tablet addressed especially to the Christians, Bahá’u’lláh states:

Say, Lo!  The Father is come, and that which ye were promised in the Kingdom is fulfilled!  This is the Word which the Son [Jesus] concealed, when to those around Him He said:  ‘Ye cannot bear it now.’  And when the appointed time was fulfilled and the Hour had struck, the Word shone forth above the horizon of the Will of God.  Beware, O followers of the Son [i.e. Christians], that ye cast it not behind your backs.  Take ye fast hold of it.  Better is this for you than all that ye possess. …  The Hour which We had concealed from the knowledge of the peoples of the earth and of the favoured angels hath come to pass.  Say, verily, He hath testified of Me, and I do testify of Him.  Indeed, He hath purposed no one other than Me.

Again, in His Tablet to the Pope (Pius IX), written in 1867, Bahá’u’lláh writes:

The Word which the Son concealed is made manifest.  It hath been sent down in the form of the human temple in this day.  Blessed be the Lord Who is the Father!  He, verily, is come unto the nations in His most great majesty.…  This is the day whereon the Rock (Peter) crieth out and shouteth, and celebrateth the praise of its Lord, the All Possessing, the Most High, saying:  ‘Lo! the Father is come, and that which ye were promised in the Kingdom is fulfilled!”

The “Son” is the symbol of the age of immaturity of mankind, and the “Father” is the symbol of the age of maturity.  The Father does not take the place of the Son, but is a more mature external expression of the same Holy Spirit.  In the same way, the Father is in the Son, and the Son is in the Father.  They are one.  The Father brings further unfoldment to accelerate our

progress in the path toward God.  Jesus reveals that those who are “sealed in their foreheads with the seal of the living God” are sealed with the Father’s name. [v. 1]  Bahá’u’lláh emphatically reiterates that as it is impossible to recognize the Son without the recognition of the Father, so it is impossible to recognize the Father of this day without the recognition of the Son!  For They are One in Spirit.  Therefore, only the “servants of God” with the “nine or unified consciousness” are sealed with the Father’s name in their foreheads.

“And finally, in several passages addressed to the entire body of the followers of Jesus Christ He [Bahá’u’lláh] identifies Himself with the ‘Father’ spoken of by Isaiah, with the ‘Comforter’ Whose Covenant He Who is the Spirit (Jesus) had Himself established, and with the ‘Spirit of Truth’ Who will guide them ‘into all truth’; proclaims His Day to be the Day of God; announces the conjunction of the river Jordan with the ‘Most Great Ocean’; asserts their heedlessness as well as His own claim to have opened unto them ‘the gates of the kingdom’; affirms that the promised ‘Temple’ has been built ‘with the hands of the will’ of their Lord, the Mighty, the Bounteous; bids them ‘rend the veils asunder,’ and enter in His name His Kingdom; recalls the saying of Jesus to Peter; and assures them that, if they choose to follow Him, He will make them to become ‘quickeners of mankind’.”

“And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder:  and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps:  And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders:  and no man could learn that song but the hundred [and] forty [and] four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth.” [v. 2–3]

These verses clearly state that the “new son” is the new Revelation, which no one could learn, save those who know and live according to the teachings of the Author of the Revelation of God for this day.  These are the servants of God, “redeemed from the earth”, redeemed from earthly desires and attachments, and who are “sealed with the Father’s name in their foreheads”.  They are already serving in His Kingdom and singing His new song.

“These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are virgins.  These are they which follow the lamb whithersoever

he goeth.  These were redeemed from among men, [being] the first-fruits unto God and to the Lamb.” [v. 4]

The above verse calls to mind the parable of the Ten Virgins in Matthew 25:1–13.  “Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.  And five of them were wise, and five [were] foolish.”  When the foolish ones went away to buy oil for their lamps, the Bridegroom came and they that were ready went in with Him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut.  When the foolish virgins came later, crying, “Lord, open unto us”, He replied, “I know you not”.  This parable is not only a lesson for each soul to live a chaste, ethical, spiritual and saintly life, but it is also prophetic of the coming of the Bridegroom, the Prophet of God for the New Day.  “Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh.”  The wise virgins are those who are prepared with the oil of the love of God and the light of understanding gained in the service of God, who are perceptive enough to recognize Him, go forth to meet Him, and enter the Marriage Feast with Him.  These “… are without fault before the throne of God.” [v. 5]  These are the “Chosen ones”.

The next picture that Jesus shows to John is one of angels.

“And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgement is come:  and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.” [v. 6–7]

This angel came with the everlasting gospel, which is none other than the Word of God, which alone gives everlasting life; and no human conception, formula or philosophy, can ever do so.  This angel is warning all mankind to fear God, to turn unto Him, and to give glory unto Him, because the Judgement Day has come.

“And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.” [v. 8]

Babylon is referred to many times in Sacred Writings, and is symbolic of a wicked civilization that is destroyed because of its vices, iniquities and corruptions that cannot be reformed.  This,

too, is a warning to our present civilization.  The signs are everywhere.

“And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive [his] mark in his forehead, or in his hand, The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:  And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.  Here is the patience of the saints: here [are] they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.” [v. 9–12]

The third angel also comes with a warning to those who become selfish and greedy, are immersed in the spirit of commercialism and materialism, and in any or all of the things that tend to draw men away from the love and worship of God—he shall be tested and tormented.  “Verily, ye shall reap what ye sow and obtain the fruits of what ye plant.  This is a pre-ordained fact.”  Here is a word of encouragement to those who have kept the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus; it is also an admonition to have patience during the time of testing.

Then “… I (John) heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed [are] the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth:  Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them.” [v. 13]

Here again is a warning.  We are judged not by what we say, but by what we do, think and by how we live.  The choices that we make, the way we follow those choices, and the way we react to the tests that come to us in this period—by these are we judged.  Bahá’u’lláh has emphasized the importance of deeds rather than words.

Guidance hath ever been given by words, and now it is given by deeds.  Every one must show forth deeds that are pure and holy, for words are the property of all alike, whereas such deeds as these belong only to Our loved ones.  Strive then with heart and soul to distinguish yourselves by your deeds.

The angels mentioned in this chapter, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are spiritual and merciful powers sent to guide and warn mankind.

“One like unto the Son of man” is now pictured.  “And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud [one] sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.” [v. 14]  Jesus had also foretold this.  “For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works.”  “… so shall it be in the end of this world.  The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his Kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity; And shall cast them into a furnace of fire:  there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.  Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the Kingdom of their Father ….”

Jesus Christ spoke many times of the great Day of Judgement when the Son of man shall come in the glory of His Father.  In Matthew 13:37–40, Jesus compares this Day to the time of harvest, when the tares are burned, and the grain gathered into barns.  By the “end of the world” is meant symbolically the consummation of the Age, or end of the Cycle.  Jesus teaches that the Kingdom of the Father will be established on the earth as well as in heaven.  The “One like unto the Son of man” in verse 14 is Bahá’u’lláh, like unto Jesus Christ.

By “clouds” is meant the things that veil the people from recognizing the Chosen Messenger of God.  Clouds can be that which causes egotism, literal interpretations, and anything else that prevents us from accepting Him.  Muḥammad said, “So oft then as an apostle cometh to you with that which your souls desire not, swell ye with pride, and treat some as impostors, and slay others?”  As clouds prevent the eyes of men from seeing the phenomenal sun, so these veils hinder people from recognizing the spiritual Sun or Light-Giver of Truth.  Many will turn away from the Word of Truth and are clouded by the sayings of men.  The “crown” is a symbol of authority, and a “golden crown”, as was established before, signifies spiritual authority.  The “sharp sickle” in His hand indicates the time of harvest or reaping.

“And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle and reap:  for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe.  And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.” [v. 15–16]

“And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.  And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.” [v. 17–18]

One angel came out of the temple, another came out of the temple that is in heaven, and still another came out from the altar, all proclaiming the time had come for the earth to be reaped.

“And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast [it] into the great winepress of the wrath of God.  And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse’s bridles, by the space of a thousand [and] six hundred furlongs.” [v. 19–20]

At the time of Jesus Christ there were many vineyards in Palestine that constituted the only means of livelihood for many people.  The grapes were gathered at harvest time; the seeds, vines, twigs and tendrils were all put in a big vat and trampled down together, first by bare feet, then by stompers, and later by oxen.  The juice of the grapes filled the barrels, and the refuse was thrown out and later burned.  The analogy of the wine press gives a very vivid picture of the great day of testing, or the Day of Judgement.  “… the hosts of righteousness … led by Christ against the hosts of evil and the awfulness of bloodshed that would ensue is dramatically portrayed by pictures of wine vats flowing blood-red with the blood of the grapes.”

The coming of each Prophet of God is a Day of Judgement, and people are judged by the degree in which they turn to, or turn from, the laws and truths that He reveals.  All the Sacred Books of the Divinely-Revealed Religious Systems have foretold the great Day of Judgement, which would purge the old-world order of its impurities, and usher in the New World Cycle, or Kingdom of God on earth.

As Jesus “… sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, tell us, when shall these things be? and what [shall be] the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?”  He answered:  “When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place, (whoso readeth, let him understand).”

These prophecies of Jesus, as described in Chapter 6, of the earthquake, the dark day, and the shower of stars are fulfilled.  The sequence of events in that fulfilment, where Jesus foretold the coming of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh and of events yet to come, are vividly described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His tablets:

“Then the ‘Resurrection’ appeared, the ‘Day of Judgement’ became manifest, the ‘earth’ heaved and shook, the ‘mountains’ were levelled, the ‘seas’ boiled, the ‘sun’ was eclipsed, the ‘luminaries’ were darkened, the ‘stars’ scattered, the ‘signs’ became known, the ‘bridge’ expanded, the ‘conditions’ were fulfilled, the ‘balance’ was set up, the ‘fire’ burned fiercely and the ‘paradise’ became begemmed!—wherefore the devoted ones entered into delectable gardens with beatitude and the veiled ones were left to amuse themselves with their own imaginations; the possessors of perception beheld the lights and those whose eyes were weak vanished in gloomy darkness before the appearance of the mid-day Sun!”

Jesus Christ foretold the timeliness of these “days of tribulation” when the angels would thrust in their sickles and reap.  The Báb is the sixth angel and the seventh is the angel of the Throne, Bahá’u’lláh.  “For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.  And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved:  but for the elect’s sake those days shall be shortened.”

Bahá’u’lláh describes the divine intervention by which the Lord will terminate the tribulations of those days:

The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by day.  Its face is turned towards waywardness and unbelief.  Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now would not be meet and seemly.  Its perversity will long continue.  And when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly appear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind to quake.  Then, and only then, will the Divine Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.

Hereafter, no one can ever say he was not warned, for today is the great Day of Judgement!

15
Seven golden vials
—the sea of glass mingled with fire

For there was need, once more, of a Divine Revelation to the torpid, frivolous children of men, if they were not to sink altogether into the ape condition.

God ordains the grand designs of the universe long ages before they take shape, such as the order of the solar systems, galaxies, island universes.  This is somewhat like a dramatist who completes his play before it appears in action upon the stage.  Nearly two thousand years ago in CE 96, Jesus revealed the divine vision that is now being enacted.

We are reminded of these words of Jesus:  “For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works.”  Daniel also foretells “… and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation [even] to that same time:  and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book.”

Bahá’u’lláh in this Day has also given a very potent warning:

O ye peoples of the world!  Know, verily, that an unforeseen calamity is following you, and that grievous retribution awaiteth you.  Think not the deeds ye have committed have been blotted from My sight.  By My beauty!  All your doings hath My Pen graven with open characters upon tablets of chrysolite.

“And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the wrath of God.” v. 1]

When we speak of the “wrath of God”, many people immediately become disturbed and say:  “Well, God isn’t a God of wrath!”  No, God is not a God of wrath but a God of love.  He

is the Creator of all law.  When we ignore the law, we are punished by the law for our disobedience; then we call Him a God of wrath!  His laws are inexorable and it does not pay to break them.  The seven angels with the seven last plagues are symbolic of the punishments that come to us for having broken the laws of God.

“And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire:  and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, [and] over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God.  And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous [are] thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true [are] thy ways, thou King of saints.  Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for [thou] only [art] holy:  for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for thy judgements are made manifest.” [v.2–4]

In Revelation 4:6 we read about the “sea of glass”, and there we learned the Key to it.  The “sea of glass” is the “ocean” of truth given by the Prophet of God for this Day.  All the Prophets of God have brought truth, but in the past, because of the immaturity of mankind, the Prophets gave only little rivulets, or small streams, of truth.  Jesus Christ gave a river of truth, and He said, “I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when He, the Spirit of Truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth ….”

In this Day, Bahá’u’lláh has come and has not given us only a river of truth, but a sea or ocean of truth; as Jesus foretold.  Those who had achieved victory over the beast, his image and over other temptations, were the ones who were standing on this Sea of Truth.  This Sea of Truth, however, is mingled with fire.  We recall the first mention of the sea of glass.  It did not say it was mingled with fire; that it was without flaw or blemish, clear as crystal, pure and clear.  How the words ring out, that it is a sea of glass mingled with fire.  This means the fire of purging, the fire of burning, and the fire of cleansing and wiping out, through trials, calamities and tribulations, of all that does not belong in the New Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  This fire, in which the sea of glass is mingled, is also the fire of the Love of God that will result because of the purging.  Only those who are purified and found worthy, and who know the song of this New Day, will

overcome all obstacles to stand on the “sea of glass”.  They sing the Song of Moses, re-emphasizing the Revelation of Moses.  The “Lamb” in this case refers to Jesus Christ and His Message.  Jesus said, “For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me ….”  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “As Moses and Jesus brought their Message to the people, so Bahá’u’lláh brings the same Message.”

He who really lives in his heart and mind according to those messages, and makes that Truth a part of his inmost being is the one who sings the great song:

“… Great and marvellous [are] thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true [are] thy ways, thou King of saints.  Who shall not fear Thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for [thou] only art holy ….” [v. 3–4]

“And after I looked, and, behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened:  And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden girdles.” [v. 5–6]

It is apparent that those who brought the plagues were not devils as they have often been pictured, but were the true Messengers of God carrying out His will.  They are adorned with pure and white linen, signifying the garments of righteousness and a stainless character; and their breasts are girded with golden girdles, again indicating the superlative degree of their spiritual qualities and perfections and of their Mission.

“And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.” [v. 7]

These vials were also “golden”, indicating a spiritual destiny that these angels were to bring to fulfilment in this Day, during the harvest period.  They were to empty the vials of the Will of God, the Law of God, upon the people.  To those who have broken the Laws, it is a punishment.  To those who have learned to obey the Laws of God, it is a reward and a blessing.

“And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.” [v. 8]

The very words, “Glory of God”, in Arabic is the one word—Bahá’u’lláh.  Could it be the meaning of this verse is that no man was able to enter into the temple (the Bahá’í

World Commonwealth), until the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled, that is, until after the Judgement Day?  Dr Howard Colby Ives again expresses it beautifully in these lines:

Thy Judgement Day

Man speaks:

Anon I heard Thy heavenly accents say;
Blest are the souls who rise amidst the dead
Attaining to Thy Union:  but I’ve read
That this can happen on Thy Judgement Day.
Alone.  Enlighten my dense darkness, pray!

God speaks:

Each day is Judgement Day:  but comes a Day
of Days when I myself in Power rise
Amongst the dead and open ready eyes
Unto My Glory!

—The Song Celestial

16
Armageddon—the great earthquake

The time foreordained unto the peoples and kindreds of the earth is now come.  The promises of God, as recorded in the holy Scriptures, have all been fulfilled.

Is this the Judgement Day?

The Battle of Armageddon is an epic written by the finger of God before the scenes of today’s world drama opened.  Now we are watching its challenging unfoldment with eager searching eyes.  In the Bible there are many significant prophetic warnings concerning this climactic world drama.  Three soul-stirring warnings are given:

1.	Jesus foretold this day of reckoning.  “As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world.  The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity; And shall cast them in a furnace of fire:  there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”  “… the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the just.”

2.	Jesus also said:  “Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of My Father which is in heaven.”

3.	The Prophet Zechariah wrote:  “And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried:  they shall call on my name, and I will hear them:  I will say, It [is] my people:  and they shall say, The Lord [is] my God.”

These are very ominous statements, especially as we study their fulfilment in the succeeding chapters of the Book of Revelation.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave the Keys to this strange chapter to one of the early believers in ‘Akká, in 1909, when He said that the seven

angels mentioned refer to seven powers.  He also said that the darkness of the night of error will surround the world, and then the sun will shine in the plenitude of its glory.

John wrote:  “And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.  And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and [upon] them which worshipped his image.” [v. 1–2]

These seven plagues are similar to those visited upon the Egyptians when Moses was leading the Children of Israel out of bondage.  One of those plagues was of locusts, one of rivers running with blood, and the last plague was when “… the Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that [was] in the dungeon ….”  Only then did Pharaoh consent to the departure of Moses and the Children of Israel from the land of Egypt.  These plagues are considered by many people to have happened in the literal sense only, but their great symbolic spiritual meaning is of the greatest importance.

The first angel is a power that pours forth its vial upon the earth symbolizing corrupt and tyrannical rulers, like the early Caliphs of Sunni Islám.  The vials really mean the influence exerted by these rulers.  Through that influence, some who were apparently good, but who were inwardly bad, were deprived of the Light, or spiritually destroyed.  Their characters were like those of animals, therefore the “mark of the beast” here signifies the character of the beast.

“And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead [man]; and every living soul died in the sea.” [v. 3]  The second angel or power poured out his cup upon the sea.  This power symbolizes the corrupt religious and political leaders of the Islamic hierarchy, like the ‘Ulamas, who were much like Caiphas in the Jewish Hierarchy, at the time of Jesus.  The second angel poured upon them the cup of the wrath of God, so that they and all those under their authority were deprived of the water of life.

“And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters; and they became blood.” [v. 4.]  (See also verses 5 and 6.)  In this verse, the “rivers and fountains” signify less

influential men than the ‘Ulamas, such as the Mujtahids and the Mullas, who were deprived of the true teachings.  They corrupted the pure teachings of God, which then became as dead blood instead of the cause of life to the people.

In the fifth verse, the “angel of the waters”, which is the power of knowledge, is addressing God, and praising Him for judging the people justly.  The saints and the prophets were given to drink of the living pure water of eternal life, since they were worthy and had kept the divine teachings pure.

“And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous [are] thy judgements.” [v. 7]  This confirms the statement of the “angel of the waters” in the fifth verse, that God is just and righteous to have judged the people who had corrupted His Word.

“And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire.  And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues:  and they repented not to give him glory.” [v. 8–9]

The fourth angel poured out his vial upon the “sun”, which here refers to Sulṭán ‘Abu’l-‘Azíz of Turkey.  The Sulṭán is described as “… the self-styled vicar of the Prophet of Islám and the absolute ruler of the mighty empire.  So potent, so august a personage was the first among the sovereigns of the world to receive the Divine Summons, and the first among Oriental monarchs to sustain the impact of God’s retributive justice.”

“And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the scat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues for pain, And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.” [v. 10–11]

The “seat of the beast” alludes to the Sháh of Persia, seated upon his throne, upon whom the cup of the fifth angel was poured.  However, neither he nor his subjects were admonished by the burning fierceness of his rule nor by the calamities that befell them.

“And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.” [v. 12]

The Euphrates River, upon which the sixth angel poured his vial, symbolizes the area of Syria, Iraq and the Turkish Empire.

The drying up of the water indicates that learning and science were abolished and that ignorance prevailed over the entire region, making way for the loss of power and influence in the region.

“And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs [come] out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.  For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, [which] go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.” [v. 13–14]

The red dragon introduced in Chapter 13, herein is symbolic of the ecclesiastical hierarchy, the Umayyad dynasty of Caliphs, or Bani-Umayyad, who held away over ten Islamic countries in the seventh and eighth centuries of the Christian era.  In that same chapter it is explained that the “image” of the beast lived on in the bigoted ecclesiastical system of Islám, and its recrudescence was witnessed in the persecutions and martyrdom of the Báb and His followers more than eleven centuries later.

In this chapter, then, we may say that the red dragon symbolizes the venal, corrupt and bigoted ecclesiastical and political systems of Persia.  In God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi, gives a vivid picture of these conditions at the time of His Holiness the Báb.

The people among whom He (The Báb) appeared were the most decadent race in the civilized world, grossly ignorant, savage, cruel, steeped in prejudice, servile in their submission to an almost deified hierarchy, recalling in their abjectness the Israelites of Egypt in the days of Moses, in their fanaticism the Jews in the days of Jesus, and in their perversity the idolaters of Arabia in the days of Muḥammad.  The arch-enemy who repudiated His claim, challenged His authority, persecuted His Cause, succeeded in almost quenching His light, and who eventually became disintegrated under the impact of His Revelation was the Shí‘ih priesthood ….  The willing tools who prostituted their high office for the accomplishment of the enemy’s designs were no less than the sovereigns of the Qájár dynasty [as stated in Chapter 13], first, the bigoted, the sickly, the vacillating Muḥammad Sháh, who at the last moment cancelled the Báb’s imminent visit to the capital, and, second, the youthful and inexperienced Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh, who gave his ready assent to the sentence of his Captive’s death.  The arch villains who joined hands with the prime movers of so

wicked a conspiracy were the two grand vizirs, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, the idolized tutor of Muḥammad Sháh, a vulgar, false-hearted and fickle-minded schemer, and the arbitrary, bloodthirsty, reckless ‘Amír-Niẓám, Mírzá Taqí Khán, the first of whom exiled the Báb to the mountain fastnesses of Ádhirbáyján, and the latter decreed His death in Tabríz.”

The two rulers played their part at different times, Muḥammad Sháh as the  “mouth of the dragon”, giving power to the  “mouth of the beast”, the grand vizir Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, and Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh as the “mouth of the dragon”, giving power to the “mouth of the false prophet”, the ‘Amír-Niẓám, Mírzá Taqí Khán, one of the greatest of the ‘Ulamas.  The latter claimed to be the voice of God and to have all power, and often said, “My words are revealed from on High.”  He was the one most responsible for the execution of the Báb and thousands of His followers, among whom were some of the most erudite and learned people of that day.

The three spirits like frogs that came out of the mouths of the dragon, the beast and the false prophet, were the false, fanatical and twisted teachings used in an attempt to turn the people of Persia against the Cause of God and to stamp it out.  There was great confusion, distress, ignorance, cruelty and even violent savagery during this period of diabolical corruption that marked the reign of the red dragon.

“Behold, I come as a thief.  Blessed [is] he that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.” [v. 15]

It is the “great voice”, as He is called at the beginning of this chapter, that is speaking.  It was foretold that Jesus Christ would come as a thief in the night.  He foretold that the Lord of Hosts would also come as a thief, while the whole world is asleep and unaware.  Blessed is he that is awake, is watching, and is clothed with the garments of spiritual qualities and attributes, for he will recognize the Promised One when He comes.  This is the final impressive warning before the announcement of the Battle of Armageddon.

“And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon.” [v. 16]

Jesus prophesies:  “For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:  and there shall be famines,

and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.  All these [are] the beginning of sorrows.”

That day is also pictured vividly by the Hebrew prophet Jeremiah:  “For my people [is] foolish, they have not known me; they [are] sottish children, and they have no understanding:  they [are] wise to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.…  For thus hath the Lord said, The whole land shall be desolate; yet will I not make a full end. …  The whole city shall flee from the noise of the horsemen and bowmen; they shall go into thickets, and climb up upon the rocks:  every city [shall be] forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.”

Jesus said:

“In your patience possess ye your souls.  And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh.”

“And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring; Men’s hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth:  for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.  And then they shall see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.  And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.”

Matthew reported Jesus’ vision of the Judgement Day as follows:

“For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.  And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved:  but for the elect’s sake, those days shall be shortened.”

“So shall it be at the end of the world:  the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, And shall cast them into the furnace of fire:  there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.”

Armageddon is considered to be in Roumelia and Macedonia, where many battles were fought, and also in the Megiddo Desert in the centre of what was once called Palestine.  Some believe it to refer symbolically to the final battle between the forces of good and evil.  It is also symbolic of the last battle to eliminate all war.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated in tablets, that the Battle of Armageddon would begin in 1914, with World War I, that it will be finished and peace established during the twentieth century.  In 1912 and 1913, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá travelled over America and Europe warning

people of the imminent world conflict that would set fire to the world in 1914, and with burning fervour entreated mankind to turn to God and establish unity upon the earth.

The battle of Armageddon as stated by scholars can be divided into seven phases or struggles.

1.	The battle of nations:  Since 1914, the World Wars have been fierce, horrible and unrewarding.  The ensuing “cold war” has burdened the nations with a mad munitions race and foreign aid programmes that bid fair to cause the collapse of their national, financial and moral structures.  There can be no victory with modern weapons like nuclear bombs and intercontinental guided missiles.  There can be only mass destruction of millions, yet the insane race goes on to its destined climax.

2.	The economic battle, including the battle between capital and labour:  This battle grows ever more bitter as the struggle for food, shelter and clothing gravely affects the world industrial system by strikes and by retarding production, distribution and consumption.  Everything is affected by this struggle.

3.	The political battle, or the battle of opposing ideologies:  At the time of the American Civil War, President Lincoln said, “We can no longer live half slave and half free; we must be all slave or all free.”  President Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, during the zero hour of World War II:  “The world has now come to the time when it can no longer live half slave and half free; we must be all slave or all free, as we are all one.”  As the struggle between different ideologies becomes more intense, more people are swept into the ranks of the opposing forces.  In His Tablet to the Kings, Bahá’u’lláh warned the rulers to take measures for the maintenance of political peace, the reduction of armaments, and the removal of insecurity and injustice, as failure to do so would inevitably result in the collapse of our present civilization.

4.	The battle of disease:  The whole tree of humanity is sick and struggling for life as the result of the fierce competition, conflict, fear, oppression, injustice, uncleanliness and ungodliness that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said are the causes of mental, moral, and physical disease.  Every leaf of the tree of humanity shares in the same general sickness and is struggling for life.

5.	The battle of the forces of nature:  The unparalleled destruction by hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, avalanches, insects and earthquakes since 1914 seems to be increasing each year, and

is due both directly and indirectly to man’s disobedience of the Laws of God.  It follows that deliverance from these calamities can be obtained only by obedience to the laws of God.  There is no chance or uncertainty about it.  Turning away from God inevitably brings disaster, and turning to God inevitably brings blessings.

6.	The battle of the races:  Racial prejudices continually flare up in some part of the world, due to the denial of basic human rights to one race by another.  Some races, believing themselves to be superior to others, exploit the weaker races to maintain their own positions of dominance.  In the brewing melting pot of the many races of mankind, some of the blackest pages in the world’s history are the result of the horrible iniquity of racial prejudice.  Does not the Bible teach this unifying message?  “Have we not all one Father? hath not one God created us? ….”  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, “… God created us all of one race.”  “The lovers of mankind, these are the superior men, of whatever nation, creed or colour they may be.”

7.	The battle of religions:  Of all the battles, dreadful as they are, the most cruel, bitter, devastating, and senseless is the Battle of Religions.  There is nothing more fanatical, godless and soul-destroying than for man to kill his brother in the name of religion.  The animosity and conflict has always been due, not to true religion, but to the lack of it; it has been caused by the emphasis on human traditions, suppositions and forms, rather than on the Word of God as revealed by His latest Manifestation, or Revelator.  The results of the so-called “Holy Wars” have been ashes of destruction and desolation, oceans of turbulence and centuries of hatred.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that “If religion becomes a cause of dislike, hatred and division, it were better to be without it ….  Any religion which is not a cause of love and unity is no religion.”

Shoghi Effendi has written:  “The whole of mankind is groaning, is dying to be led to unity, and to terminate its age-long martyrdom.  And yet it stubbornly refuses to embrace the light and acknowledge the sovereign authority of the one Power that can extricate it from its entanglements, and avert the woeful calamity that threatens to engulf it.”

The Battle of Armageddon is, therefore, the gathering of all the peoples of the world into a great time of crisis, when every individual soul, every system, institution, method, form, tradition, ceremony, ideology and idea, is being measured and tested.  Everything that is corrupt and not in harmony with the Divine Laws as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh for this Day, will be swept away.

“And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.  And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, [and] so great.” [v. 17–18]

This was a vision of the great earthquake, foretold in so many of the Sacred Writings:  In the Old Testament it is foretold:

… the earth shall remove out of her place ….—Isaiah 13:13

The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard ….—Isaiah 24:20

… yea, it shall be at an instant, suddenly.—Isaiah 29:5

Thou shalt be visited of the Lord of hosts with thunder, and with earthquake, and great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame of devouring fire.—Isaiah 29:6

Behold, I will bring again the shadow of the degrees, which is gone down in the sun dial of Ahaz, ten degrees backward.  So the sun returned ten degrees, by which degrees it was gone down.—Isaiah 38:8

In the New Testament it is foretold:

… and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.—Matthew 24:7

… the sea and the waves roaring;…[and] the powers of heaven shall be shaken.—Luke 21:25–26

For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:  and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles:  these [are] the beginning of sorrows.—Mark 13:8

And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven.—Luke 21:11

The scientists, during the International Geophysical Year, learned that cracks, shifts, creases, distortions must occur in the earth’s surface to keep the balance, to build a better form, and to be the means of progress in creation.  When the waves of energy reach a crest in

the earth’s surface, a shift occurs in weaker areas and man calls it an earthquake.  Large areas are so affected as to stagger the imagination.

Another startling fact discovered is that all fault lines or belts are connected in a vast network of world-wide scope, that huge fault lines mean huge changes or shifts, and that means huge earthquakes!

There are many warnings in sacred writings of the great earthquake and change.  Isaiah warns of that day when the Lord “shall shake terribly the earth” because of man’s godlessness and disobedience to His laws.  Jesus warned that, among other terrible and destructive events, “earthquakes, [would occur] in divers places.”  Also that “… the sea and the waves roaring; … for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.”

A member of the Coast Geodetic Survey in California reports that the major and minor earthquakes are increasing in number and intensity.  They now number about a million a year.  Another member of that same survey states that any place on earth is considered as a possible earthquake zone and that the force of one major earthquake is more than that of 25,000 atomic bombs.

The divine Prophets of God, in addition to the scientists, have all warned man to turn to God and obey His Laws, and that unless man knows in advance and heeds the warnings, he will go down with the destructive force.  Some groups look for the great earthquake as a sign, after which the Lord will appear, as the Second Coming of Christ.  Some believe that He will come in the midst of the calamities to warn them, and that is their sign.

Did Noah come after the flood to warn the people?  Did Noah come in the midst of the calamities to warn the people?  What is the justice in that?

It is contrary to the teachings of every Prophet of God.  Each Prophet is the Noah for His Day.  Does He not come as the Voice of God and warn before the calamities begin, that all may have the opportunity to know and heed His warning and abide by His Law?

It is clearly established that Bahá’u’lláh since 1863, before the world-wide calamities, has given more staggering warnings, signs, admonitions and promises than had been given ever before.  We are living today in the midst of their fulfilment, when not “a

jot or tittle shall remain unfulfilled.”

“The day is approaching when ….  He shall cleanse the earth from the defilement of their corruption, and shall give it for an heritage unto such of His servants as are nigh unto Him.”  “Soon will the cry, ‘Yea, yea, here am I, here am I’ be heard from every land.  For they hath never before, nor can there ever be, any other refuge to fly to for any one.”

Beware, O people of Bahá, lest the strong ones of the earth rob you of your strength, or they who rule the world fill you with fear.  Put your trust in God, and commit your affairs to His keeping.  He, verily, will, through the power of truth, render you victorious ….  Worlds, holy and spiritually glorious, will be unveiled to your eyes.  You are destined by Him, in this world and hereafter, to partake of their benefits, to share in their joys, and to obtain a portion of their sustaining grace.  To each and every one of them you will, no doubt, attain.

But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up.

There are many predictions of the events of the latter days in all the Holy Books.  They all assert that, by the decree of God, no one will be able to unravel the meaning of these prophecies until the coming of the Lord of Hosts and even then the right interpretation will be known only by those who turn to His latest Revelation.

Then said, I, Lord, how long?  And He answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate, And the Lord have removed men far away, and [there be] a great forsaking in the midst of the land.

Bahá’u’lláh has written:  “The promised day is come, the day when tormenting trials will have surged above your heads, and beneath your feet, saying:  ‘Taste what your hands have wrought!’”  “The time for the destruction of the world and its people hath arrived.  He who is the Pre-Existent is come, that He may bestow everlasting life, and grant eternal preservation, and confer that which is conducive to true living.”  More than a century ago, Bahá’u’lláh warned

‘Earthquakes have broken loose, and the tribes have lam-

ented, for fear of God, the Lord of Strength, the All-Compelling.’  Say:  ‘The stunning trumpet-blast hath been loudly raised ….’  ‘Hath the Catastrophe come to pass?’  Say:  ‘Yea, by the Lord of Lords!’…  ‘Have the tree-stumps been uprooted?’  ‘Yea, more; the mountains have been scattered in dust; by Him the Lord of attributes!’”

“The hour is approaching when the most great convulsion will have appeared.…  (civilization’s) flame will devour the cities ….  Know, verily, that an unforeseen calamity is following you, and that grievous retribution awaiteth you.…  the revelations of My grace and bounty have permeated every atom of the universe ….”  “For there hath never been, nor can there ever be, any other refuge to fly to for any one.”  “And when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly appear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind to quake.  Then, and only then, will the Divine Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.”

Disasters overtaking Europe and America, more afflictive than any tribulations yet suffered in either continent, may yet attend still more majestic revelations ….

The champion builders of Bahá’u’lláh’s rising World Order must scale nobler heights of heroism as humanity plunges into greater depths of despair, degradation, dissension and distress.  Let them forge ahead into the future serenely confident that the hour of their mightiest exertions and the supreme opportunity for their greatest exploits must coincide with the apocalyptic upheaval marking the lowest ebb in mankind’s fast declining fortunes.

Whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and … proclaim this Revelation, whose power hath caused the foundations of the mightiest structures to quake, every mountain to be crushed into dust, and every soul to be dumb-founded.

These few brief days shall pass away, this present life shall vanish from our sight; the roses of this world shall be fresh and fair no more, the garden of this earth’s triumphs and delights shall droop and fade.  The spring season of life shall turn into the autumn of death, the bright joy of palace halls give way to moonless dark within the tomb.  And therefore is none of this worth loving at all, and to this the wise will not anchor his heart.

He shall cleanse the earth from the defilement of their corruption, and shall give it for an heritage unto such of His servants as are nigh unto Him.

This judgement of God … is both a retributory calamity and an act of holy and supreme discipline.  It is at once a visitation from God and a cleansing process for all mankind.  Its fires punish the perversity of the human race and weld its component parts into one organic, indivisible, world-embracing com-

munity.

Bestir yourselves, O people, in anticipation of the days of Divine justice, for the promised hour is now come.

We have a fixed time for you, O peoples.  If ye fail, at the appointed hour, to turn towards God, He, verily, will lay violent hold on you, and will cause grievous afflictions to assail you from every direction.

O ye peoples of the world!  Know, verily, that an unforeseen calamity is following you, and that grievous retribution awaiteth you.

“The whole earth is now in a state of pregnancy.  The day is approaching when it will have yielded its noblest fruits ….”  “The time is approaching when every created thing will have cast its burden.”

Rafaele Bendani, a noted seismologist who predicted several major earthquakes, gave as his studied opinion that earthquakes throughout the world in 1940 and on, would be but a prelude to a great event in which the core of the earth would be displaced.  The very words referenced above by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá while in Egypt in 1913.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1912 told a group of people in America, that ere long a great earthquake will change the world.  Then in the stream of time will the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh become firmly established.  There are many other references that might be quoted from the words of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, warning and exhorting people to prepare spiritually for the Great Change.

A rigid traditionalism and frozen fear has cramped the souls of men, so that they have been veiled from understanding the true meaning of scriptural prophecies.  Daniel also foretold this condition:  “But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, [even] to the time of the end:  many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased …. ‘And he said, Go thy way, Daniel:  for the words [are] closed up and sealed till the time of the end.  Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the wicked shall do wickedly:  and none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand.”

Had the Sháh of Persia and the Sulṭán of Turkey, with their ministers, recognized the clear prophetic signs and evidences given by their Prophet Muḥammad of the advent of the promised Qá’im who would be a blood-descendant of Muḥammad, had they heeded the admonitions of Muḥammad and recognized the Qá’im in

the person of the new High-Prophet, His Holiness the Báb, and had they not been guilty of a long period of heinous crimes and horrible tortures—then, many believe, the picture would not have been so dark, and the world outlook so menacing today.

“And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell:  and great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.  And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.  And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, [every stone] about the weight of a talent:  and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.” [v. 19–21]

The islands and mountains that fled away are those things that people thought would remain forever, unchanged, i.e. the kingdoms, governments, sects and denominations, institutions, etc.  The great hail symbolizes weapons of destruction of all kinds that shall rain down from the skies upon men, whether in the form of lethal gases, deadly disease germs, lethal radioactive fallout from atomic explosions, guided missiles, or bombs.  The expression “weighing about a talent” is figurative, not necessarily exact, but the weight of an Attic talent was about 26 kilograms (about 58 pounds).  “And men … blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues:  and they repented not to give him glory.” [v. 9]  “O ye of little faith!”

Must humanity, tormented as she now is, be afflicted with still severer tribulations ere their purifying influence can prepare her to enter the heavenly Kingdom destined to be established upon earth?  Must the inauguration of so vast, so unique, so illumined an era in human history be ushered in by so great a catastrophe in human affairs as to recall, nay surpass, the appalling collapse of Roman civilization in the first centuries of the Christian Era?  Must a series of profound convulsions stir and rock the human race ere Bahá’u’lláh can be enthroned in the hearts and consciences of the masses, ere His undisputed ascendancy is universally recognized, and the noble edifice of His World Order is reared and established?

‘Abdu’l-Bahá assures us that, in spite of the trials and tribulations through which humanity must still pass, this century of light will bring about the unity of mankind.

Behold how its light is now dawning upon the world’s darkened horizon.  The first candle is unity in the political realm, the

early glimmerings of which can now be discerned.  The second candle is unity of thought in world undertakings, the consummation of which will erelong be witnessed.  The third candle is unity in freedom which will surely come to pass.  The fourth candle is unity in religion which is the corner-stone of the foundation itself, and which, by the power of God, will be revealed in all its splendour.  The fifth candle is the unity of nations—a unity which in this century will be securely established, causing all the peoples of the world to regard themselves as citizens of one common fatherland.  The sixth candle is unity of races, making of all that dwell on earth peoples and kindreds of one race.  The seventh candle is unity of language, i.e., the choice of a universal tongue in which all peoples will be instructed and converse.  Each and every one of these will inevitably come to pass, inasmuch as the power of the Kingdom of God will aid and assist in their realization.

In the Psalms of David the words of this promise cheer the heart.  “Because thou hast made the Lord, [which is] my refuge, [even] the most High, thy habitation; There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.  For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.”

Bahá’u’lláh proclaims in these powerful and glorious words:

“Blessed are the people of Bahá!  God beareth Me witness!  They are the solace of the eye of creation.  Through them the universes have been adorned, and the Preserved Tablet embellished.  They are the ones who have sailed on the ark of complete independence, with their faces set towards the Dayspring of Beauty.  How great is their blessedness that they have attained unto what their Lord, the Omniscient, the All-Wise, hath willed.  Through their light the heavens have been adorned, and the faces of those that have drawn nigh unto Him made to shine”.  “How great is the Cause, how staggering the weight of its Message!”

17
The siren
—Babylon the great

So long as no external impediment interveneth between them, the body will, in its entirety, continue to reflect the light of the soul, and to be sustained by its power.  As soon as, however, a veil interposeth itself between them, the brightness of that light seemeth to lessen.

The vivid drama of the Judgement Day pictured by Isaiah now brings the Revelation of Jesus Christ into clearer focus.

Behold, the Lord maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.…  The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled:  for the Lord hath spoken this word.  The earth mourneth [and] fadeth away, the world languisheth [and] fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish.  The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.  Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate:  therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left.

Bahá’u’lláh also gives clearer warnings for this day.

“Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead.  Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth, and is the Knower of things unseen.”  “The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great, this new World Order.  Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.”  “The signs of impending convulsions and chaos can now be discerned, inasmuch as the prevailing order appeareth to be lamentably defective.”

“And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven

vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will show unto thee the judgement of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters:  With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.  So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness:  and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.  And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:  And upon her forehead [was] a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.  And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration.” [v. 1–6]

There are many interpretations of this beautiful woman, this siren bedecked with gold and precious stones, who is called:  “MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.”  Count Tolstoy, in his classic prophecy of this day, published in Germany, France, Egypt and America, impressively describes this woman as a siren, a super-Venus, whose voice clinked like gold.  She had in her hand three torches; one with which she set flame to the nations of the world; one with which she set flame to the family relations, which became disrupted and chaotic; and the third torch, with which she set flame to the churches and to those before the altars.  Tolstoy, in his prophecy, further describing this super Venus, tells how, when the world was inflamed, he looked and saw upon her forehead her name written in letters of scarlet:  “COMMERCIALISM!”  Bahá’u’lláh said, “The signs of impending convulsions and chaos can now be discerned ….”  The spirit of commercialism has entered into everything, causing these frightening conditions.  It has destroyed homes, set flame to nations, and even entered into the sacred institutions.  She was drunken with the blood of saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus.  When John looked at her, he wondered about her with great admiration.  Has not the entire world been enticed by the spirit of greed and commercialism?  The Bible refers to her also as Jezebel, the great and beautiful woman

who enticed the kings and rulers and even the poor and lowly.

Shoghi Effendi describes the world today as “… spiritually destitute, morally bankrupt, politically disrupted, socially convulsed, economically paralyzed, writhing, bleeding and breaking up beneath the avenging rod of God.”

“And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel?  I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and the ten horns.  The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition:  and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.” [v.7–8]

This indicates that the power of the beast existed, that it continued for a time, then seemed to lose its power for a time, then continued on, and is still very strong in the minds, hearts and attitudes of many of the peoples of the world.

The scarlet-coloured beast with seven heads and ten horns, which carried the WOMAN, again refers to early Islamic history.  The two beasts as explained by Shoghi Effendi, “who were and were not”, are Mu‘áwíyah and Yazíd, sixth and seventh caliphs of the Umayyad dynasty, whose capital was Damascus, in Syria.  The Banú Umayyah, and the ecclesiastical system that followed, always tried to find and destroy the Promised One, who was to be one of the descendants of Muḥammad, somewhat as did Herod at the time of Jesus.  In Revelation 13:5, it is stated that power was given unto the beasts to continue for 42 months, or 1,260 years by the Islamic lunar calendar.  This period ended in 1844, the time of the Manifestation of the Báb.  For eleven centuries this power had appeared to lie dormant, but broke out anew with the terrible persecutions and bloody martyrdoms of the Báb and many of His followers.  These heinous crimes were instigated by the two “arch-villains”, Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí and Mírzá Taqí Khán, symbolic successors in infamy of Mu‘áwíyah and Yazíd, the beasts that “were, and are not, and yet are.”

“And here [is] the mind which hath wisdom.  The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth.  And there are seven kings:  five are fallen, and one is, [and] the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space.

And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.  And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast.  These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast.” [v. 9–13]

This refers again to the ecclesiastical hierarchy of Islám that became very corrupt and powerful throughout those ten countries.  The spirit of commercialism and greed and fanaticism had spread over all those countries.  The eighth or image of the beast had not yet come, which alludes to the time of the end when that same spirit of commercialism and fanaticism under the corrupt ecclesiastical power, would spread to a still greater degree over the entire world.

“These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them:  for he is Lord of Lords, and King of kings:  and they that are with him [are] called and chosen, and faithful.” [v. 14]

This Lamb refers to the Báb, since Jesus is giving the message to John of the things that must come to pass hereafter.  The spirit of greed, commercialism and fanaticism did make war with the Lamb and His followers at the time of the martyrdom of the 20,000 Babis in Iran.  “He is Lord of Lords and King of kings.”  Christ foretold His coming and gave His Name, which in the Persian language is Bahá’u’lláh.

He [the Báb] Whom Bahá’u’lláh has acclaimed … as that promised Qá’im Who has manifested no less than twenty-five out of the twenty-seven letters which all the Prophets were destined to reveal—so great a Revealer has Himself testified to the pre-eminence of that superior Revelation that was soon to supersede His own.

There is only one previous record in all recorded history of two major Prophets (Melchizedek and Abraham) living contemporaneously upon the earth, and each establishing the station of the other.  The spirit of Bahá’u’lláh was in the Báb as the flower is in the bud.  The Báb declared concerning His own Book; “The Bayán deriveth all its glory from ‘Him Whom God shall make manifest’.”

“… and they that are with Him [are] called, and chosen, and faithful.”  Those who recognize the Manifestation, see His truth, and arise to serve Him in this day, these are the ones who are called,

who are chosen, and are faithful.

“And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.  And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire.  For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.” [v. 15–17]

Therefore, until the Word of God vitalizes the hearts of the people, the beast will continue to exercise his great power, that is, the WOMAN, or spirit of COMMERCIALISM, will continue to seduce mankind for “one hour”. [v. 12]

“And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth.” [v. 18]  “City” here signifies corrupt civilization, which however, will only last “one hour”, as stated in verse 12.  This time has a symbolic meaning.

We have a fixed time for you, O peoples.  If ye fail, at the appointed hour, to turn towards God, He, verily, will lay violent hold on you, and will cause grievous afflictions to assail you from every direction.

Count Tolstoy states in his remarkable prophecy that he wrote in 1908:

“I see, floating upon the surface of the Sea of Human Fate, a huge silhouette of a nude woman.  She is, with her beauty, poise, her smile, her jewels, a Super-Venus.  Nations rush madly after her, each eager to attract her especially.  But she, like an eternal Courtesan flirts with all.  In her crown of diamonds and rubies is engraved her name, ‘Commercialism’.  As alluring and bewitching as she seems, much destruction and agony follow in her wake.  Her breath reeking of sordid transactions, her voice of metallic character like gold, and her look of greed are so much poison to the nations who fall easy victims to her charms ….

“There will come a time when the world will have no use for armies, hypocritical religions, and degenerate art.  Life is evolution, and evolution is development from the simple to the sublimer forms of mind and body.  I see the passing show of the World-Drama in its present form, as it fades like the glow of evening upon the mountains.  One motion of the hand of Commercialism and a New History Begins!”

Shoghi Effendi wrote:

Never indeed have there been such widespread and basic upheavals, whether in the social, economic or political spheres of human activity as those now going on in different parts of the world.  Never have there been so many and varied sources of danger as those that now threaten the structure of society.  The following words of Bahá’u’lláh are indeed significant …:  ‘How long will humanity persist in its waywardness?  How long will injustice continue?  How long is chaos and confusion to reign amongst men?  How long will discord agitate the face of society?’

‘The whole earth,’ writes Bahá’u’lláh, ‘is now in a state of pregnancy.  The day is approaching when it will have yielded its noblest fruits, when from it will have sprung forth the loftiest trees, the most enchanting blossoms, the most heavenly blessings.  Immeasurably exalted is the breeze that wafteth from the garment of thy Lord, the Glorified!  For lo, it hath breathed its fragrance and made all things new!  Well is it with them that comprehend.’

18
No more at all
—the earth shall shine with his glory

For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

Thus shall the Great Babylon go down!

The curtain rises on the next scene of the shocking and unfolding world drama.

As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world.  The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity; And shall cast them into a furnace of fire:  there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.  Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father.  Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.

Bahá’u’lláh has stated that there may be terrible events and unparalleled calamities yet awhile on the earth, but He assures us that “… these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away and ‘The Most Great Peace’ shall come.”  War and strife have become so intolerable in their destructiveness that mankind must find deliverance from them or perish.  The fullness of time has come and with it the promised Deliverer.  It seems that never before the present lime, with the use of nuclear bombs, long range guided missiles, and other deadly chemical and bacteriological weapons, could such quick and horrible destruction of large cities and industrial centres take place.  Radio-active fall-out carried by air currents after nuclear explosions is now recognized by responsible scientists as a threat to all life on our planet, should enough explosions be set off.  It seems that destruction will continue until all humanity awakens to the fact that “the earth is one but country, and mankind its citizens”; that

the Father’s Kingdom is ready and waiting for His children to unite and establish it.

“And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.  And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.  For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.” [v. 1–3]

What a picture of the world as it was in the time of ancient Babylon!  Civilization was destroyed as the Old Testament had foretold because of the ungodliness, corruption and foulness of everything in that day.  Jesus recalls the same picture as he forewarns of conditions existing in the world today.  The great civilizations that man has so proudly built, are today tottering and disintegrating under the disruptive influence of godlessness, materialism, commercialism and the other chronic ills that beset them on every hand.

“And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.  For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.” [v. 4–5]

How soul-stirring are these words!  The Spirit of God, Christ, is here calling mankind to come out of this corrupt, materialistic, commercialized and godless civilizations, and to turn to God and remember Him in all the affairs of life.

“Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double according to her works:  in the cup which she hath filled, fill to her double.” [v. 6]  It seems that everything in this period of transition into the new cycle is being doubled whether it be for good or evil, and this will continue until the Day of Reckoning.  Those things that are not in harmony with the Word of God and cannot be raised to conform with the lofty standards of the New World Order, will catastrophically disappear.

“How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her:  for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.  Therefore … she shall be utterly burned with fire:  for strong [is] the Lord

God Who judgeth her.” [v.7–8]

The spirit of commercialism, or the super-Venus that has seduced almost everyone, is now being judged.

“And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her and lament for her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning, Standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgement come!” [v. 9–10]

This pictures the great judgement of the civilizations of the world as we know them today.

“And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more:  The merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine (citron) wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble,  And cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men.  And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.  The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,  And saying, Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls!  For in one hour so great riches is come to nought.  And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, And cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What [city is] like unto this great city!  And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness! for in one hour is she made desolate.  Rejoice over her, [thou] heaven, and [ye] holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.” [v. 11–20]

This pictures more vividly the Day of Judgement, the Day of Reward and punishment.  Those who have turned toward God and His Manifestation for this Day, have nothing to fear, but should rejoice when these things come to pass, for the glorious Day of

Peace is dawning.

“And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and cast [it] into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all” [v. 21].

Many people believe that the natural processes of evolution are sufficient to cause the changes that are occurring in the world.  We have observed these evolutionary changes, and they have been far-reaching.  In fact, there is little left today that existed a century ago.  However, evolution alone is not enough.  Jesus, appearing to John, foretold that the great city, Babylon, would be thrown down “with violence”, suddenly, like a great millstone, and cast into the sea.  Would the millstone, under these circumstances, roll down gently into the sea?  No!  It would be cast down suddenly, with great force and a great splash, to be “found no more at all”.  Thus the great corrupt civilization, symbolized by Babylon, disappears in the twinkling of an eye.  That is to say, the old forms, the old systems, the old methods, the old ideologies—all of those things that belong to the old order and are not worthy to be lifted up into the new order—will disappear.

“And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft [he be], shall be found any more in thee; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee.” [v. 22]

Undoubtedly you have heard these impressive words sung in Handel’s Messiah, that marvellous oratorio.  This verse is in one of the choruses where the sopranos, the tenors, the altos, the baritones and the basses take up the words one after the other, singing it over and over again in crescendo, furnishing a most vivid picture of these cataclysmic events.

“And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee:  for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived.  And in her was found the blood of the prophets, and of the saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.” [v. 23–24]

What a dramatic picture of the destruction, not only of ancient Babylon, but of the old order today, with all that has be

come outworn, obsolete, corrupt and evil!  We should not weep or wail, but rather rejoice when it occurs.  The destruction will mean the beginning of a marvellous new civilization that shall lift mankind to a higher level of scientific and spiritual attainment than has ever before been possible.  Thus shall great Babylon go down!

… my servants shall sing for joy of heart ….  For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth:  and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.

“The Call of God,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written, “when raised, breathed a new life into the body of mankind, and infused a new spirit into the whole creation.  It is for this reason that the world hath been moved to its depths, and the hearts and consciences of men [have] been quickened.  Erelong the evidences of this regeneration will be revealed, and the fast asleep will be awakened.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá also stated, “Rejoice, then, O ye beloved of the Lord and His chosen ones, and ye the children of God and His people, raise your voices to laud and magnify the Lord, the Most High; for His light hath beamed forth, His signs have appeared and the billows of His rising ocean have scattered on every shore many a precious  pearl.”

When man finds “The Pearl of Great Price”, then all other pearls become as naught, as stated in these lovely lines by Howard Colby Ives.

God Speaks:
Look how the merchant seeks year after year
For goodly pearls.  The pearl of greatest price
Once having found, all lesser pearls are naught.
For every joy, and with that joy distraught,
He hastens to the market-place and sells
All that he hath that he may buy that pearl.

19
The light of the world
—King of kings—Lord of lords

I bear witness, O friends! that the favour is complete, the argument fulfilled, the proof manifest and the evidence established.

“Blessed [are] the pure in heart; for they shall see God.”  God draws the curtain.  A gleam of light glows in the darkness.

The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light:  they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined ….  For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given:  and the government shall be upon his shoulder:  and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.  Of the increase of [his] government and peace [there shall be] no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgement and with justice from henceforth even for ever.  The zeal of the Lord of Hosts will perform this.

We know that Christ is the Light of the World and the Saviour of mankind, but for nearly 2,000 years since His previous appearance, the great majority of the people of the world have been walking in darkness, and have continued to groan under the pressure of economic slavery, crime and injustice.  In this day, God has again spoken to mankind through His Messenger, Who has revealed the basic laws, principles and patterns for world government, world justice and world peace.  The government was not upon the shoulders of Jesus.  There has never been a Christian government nor a world government.  The western world was not discovered until centuries after Jesus was upon the earth.  All that Jesus said about government was “Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar’s, and unto God the things which be

God’s.”  Muḥammad set out laws for governing a nation, but Bahá’u’lláh alone has revealed laws for world government.

“And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power, unto the Lord our God:  For true and righteous [are] his judgements:  for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.  And again they said, Alleluia.  And her smoke rose up for ever and ever.  And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.  And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.  And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia:  for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.” [v. 1–6]

The four and twenty elders (the disciples of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh for this Day) and the four beasts (the rulers) will spread the Message of Bahá’u’lláh rapidly over the world.  They all bowed down before the One that sat upon the throne.  The One that sat upon the throne is the Divine Mirror reflecting the glory of God is Bahá’u’lláh.  One translation of the word “Amen” is “Praise ye the Lord”, or “Be it so”.  The “voice of many waters” means the outpouring of great quantities of spiritual knowledge, and the “voice of mighty thunderings” signifies the greatness of the volume of the chorus of the multitudes singing “Praise ye the Lord, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.”

The picture now changes.  “Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him:  for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.  And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white:  for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.  And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed [are] they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb.  And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God.” [v. 7–9]

Many people in the Christian world have considered the “marriage supper of the Lamb” as referring to the marriage of Jesus Christ and the Church.  This is helpful in a limited way.  Jesus was one Lamb, according to the Bible, and the Báb was another Lamb, both ordained for slaughter from “the foundation of the world”.

The above verse refers to the Lamb for this Day.  “The fine linen is the righteousness of saints” indicates that this marriage is not to be taken literally, but symbolically, and spiritually.

“Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb” has a very great significance.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained how the Báb fulfilled, after 1,260 years, all the prophecies of Muḥammad regarding the One Who has to come from the lineage of Muḥammad.

The laws He [the Báb] promulgated, some very severe, were designed to shake up the lethargic people of Persia in general and to inflame His own followers with the zeal and fervour of a new and dynamic Faith in particular ….  In the Dispensation of the Báb … the energies of a mighty Revelation had to be released within a very short period of time.  Therefore, everything associated with His Faith, His laws, His teachings, His own public appearances, His Ministry, His personal life and His martyrdom were all characterized by a dynamism and forcefulness unparalleled in the annals of past religions, and which exerted a most potent and electrifying influence upon friend and foe alike.

The Báb declared that He was but the Herald of One greater than Himself, Whom God would make manifest, and that “a thousand perusals of the Bayán [Báb’s Book] cannot equal the perusal of a single verse to be revealed by Him Whom God shall make manifest.”  He also stated that “The Bayán deriveth all its glory from Him Whom God shall make manifest.”

Before His martyrdom, the Báb called His devoted followers to turn to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, which was soon to supersede His own.  Those of the Báb’s followers who truly recognized the station of the Báb did turn to Bahá’u’lláh.  They recognized Bahá’u’lláh because of their instant, exact and complete obedience and of their great spiritual capacity.  These are they who partook of the marriage supper of the Lamb!  Those who said, “The Báb is sufficient unto us”, were veiled spiritually from recognizing Bahá’u’lláh, therefore they could not enter and partake of the marriage supper of the Lamb, “and the door was shut.”

The same is true in this Day.  The followers of every Faith are looking for the coming of One called by the name of the Prophet of their Faith, or by another name, or title, which they believe was designated by Him.  Thus the Christians are looking for the return of Jesus; the Buddhists expect the Fifth Buddha, “a Buddha named Maitreye, the Buddha of universal fellowship”; the Hindus are awaiting the One foretold in the Bhagavad-Gita as the “Tenth Avatar”, the “Immaculate Manifestation of Krishna”; the Jews are looking for the coming of their “Messiah”; the Zoroastrians are looking for the advent of the World-Saviour, “Sháh-Bahrám”; Shí‘a Muslims are expecting the return of the “Imám Ḥusayn”; and the Sunní Muslims look for the descent of the “Spirit of God”.

Christ is calling the whole world to awaken to the recognition of the “Spirit of Truth” promised in John 16:13, Who would guide all people “into all truth”.  In fulfilment of this promise that “spirit of Truth” has been sent to mankind, not only to one religion, but to all religions, in the form of the Messenger of God for this day, Him Whom God hath made manifest, Bahá’u’lláh.  Those that truly believe in Jesus Christ and who love Him devotedly, will turn unto and obey that same Christ Spirit returned in Bahá’u’lláh.  These are the ones who will partake of the “marriage supper of the Lamb”.  This great truth applies likewise to the followers of the other great religious systems.  However, there are many people today who do not recognize the station of Jesus Christ nor that of the One Whom Jesus foretold would come in this Day.  These are the ones who are deprived of partaking of the “marriage supper of the Lamb”.  “… and the door was shut.”  What more could Jesus say in warning the world?

John was so impressed by what the angel had shown him that he “fell at his feet to worship him”, but the angel said unto him, “… See [thou do it] not:  I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus:  worship God:  for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.” [v. 10]  In other words this angel said:  “Do not worship me, as I am only a human being in the human orbit of evolution, as are you; turn to God and worship Him, and recognize the testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit of prophecy.”  Here Jesus is saying that He is bearing witness of the One He prophesied who would come after Him.  His Teaching, as the Saviour, the Light of the World, in His Dispensation, was limited because of man’s immaturity.  However, He foretells that a greater Light is to come in the New Cycle.  He is prophesying about something to come later, when mankind will have become more mature, and have a greater spiritual capacity.  Light needs to be added to the world from age to age.  Jesus Christ had all light, all power, all knowledge, and all truth.  There is nothing greater than all.  However, there was no ear to hear, nor heart to understand more than He gave in His Day.  So He foretold the One to come in this Day, Who would reveal truth in accordance with the greater need and maturity of mankind.

“And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him [was] called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.” [v. 11]  In the sixth chapter, we

learned about the coming of the Four Horsemen, one on a white horse, one on a red horse, one on a black horse and one on a pale horse.  Many think the white horse of this chapter is the same white horse of Chapter six, but obviously this is a different one.  The impressive symbol here is the “horse” riding forth, coming into manifestation, and the “white horse” signifies riding forth with pure and heavenly qualities and attributes.  The white horse in the sixth chapter had a rider with a bow but no arrow, and with a crown, but not a golden crown.  That white horse symbolizes theology, which rides forth in the semblance of religion “conquering and to conquer”, but in the end it does not conquer.  The white horse in this chapter is obviously a different white horse.  It has a rider whose name is called Faithful and True, “… and in righteousness He doth judge and make war.” [v. 11]  “The beautiful and glorious person riding upon the white horse is the Greatest Name and the white horse means also His glorious body.”

“His eyes [were] as a flame of fire, and on his head [were] many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.  And he [was] clothed with a vesture dipped in blood:  and his name is called The Word of God.” [v. 12–13]

The symbol, “eyes as a flame of fire” is the symbol given by Jesus of the One “Like unto the Son of man”.  Jesus was the gentle Nazarene and the other Prophets had their own attributes, while Bahá’u’lláh is symbolized as having “eyes as a flame of fire”.  The one photograph of Bahá’u’lláh in existence verifies this fact.

“On His Head were many crowns”:  it has been established that “crown” symbolizes authority, and “golden crown” denotes spiritual authority.  His many crowns were golden, since His name was called “The Word of God”, and for what greater spiritual authority could anyone have than being called “The Word of God”?  All the Prophets “brought” the Word of God, but only Jesus and Bahá’u’lláh are “called” “The Word of God”.  Therefore, to the whole Christian world, Behold!  Bahá’u’lláh is the Second Coming of “The Word of God!”

“And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood.”  Many Christian groups teach that we must be washed in the blood of Jesus and interpret this blood to be literal.  However, it has a far greater meaning.  It has a meaning of much “spiritual life force”.  The vesture of the rider of the white horse was dipped

in this spiritual life force, the power of the Holy Spirit.

“And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us ….”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá with great clarity states:

The perfections of Christ are called the Word, because all the beings are in the condition of letters, and one letter has not a complete meaning; whilst the perfections of Christ have the power of the word because a complete meaning can be inferred from a word.  As the Reality of Christ was the manifestation of the divine perfections, therefore, it was like the word.  Why? because He is the sum of perfect meanings.  This is why He is called the Word.

He Whom Jesus Christ foretold, Bahá’u’lláh, is also called “The Word of God”.  Emphatically, all the Prophets “brought” the Word, while Jesus and Bahá’u’lláh were “called” “The Word of God”.  Thus, the Second Coming of “The Word of God” is already manifest in Bahá’u’lláh.

“And the armies [which were] in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.” [v. 14]  These armies that followed Him “upon white horses” are those who have turned towards and recognized the Light and the Truth in the patterns for World Order and Spiritual progress as given by Bahá’u’lláh for this new Day.  These armies are already marching in every land throughout the world to establish the Law of God.  These armies carry no destructive weapons, but their hosts and helpers “… are such righteous deeds, such conduct and character, as are acceptable in His sight.”

“And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations:  and he shall rule them with a rod of iron:  and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.” [v. 15]  The “sharp sword”, it will be remembered, is the sword of Truth, which is none other than the Word of God.  The “rod of iron” is the Law of God, strong, firm and just, which God has revealed through Bahá’u’lláh for this new cycle.  The “winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God” symbolizes the great Day of Judgement at the end of the old cycle, when the wine of the love of God is being pressed out and preserved.

“And He hath on [his] vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.” [v.16]  The same spirit of Jesus Christ is returned in the Lord of Lords!  All the

Prophets of the past have foretold the One to come in this Day.  Many prophecies are recorded in the Sacred Writings of the world, which have been fulfilled in the coming of Bahá’u’lláh.  Some of these are clearly set forth by Shoghi Effendi.

He Who in such dramatic circumstances was made to sustain the over-powering weight of so glorious a Mission was none other than the One Whom posterity will acclaim, and Whom innumerable followers already recognize, as the Judge, the Lawgiver and Redeemer of all mankind, as the Organizer of the entire planet, as the Unifier of the children of men, as the Inaugurator of the long-awaited millennium, as the Originator of a new ‘Universal Cycle’, as the Establisher of the Most Great Peace, as the Fountain of the Most Great Justice, as the Proclaimer of the coming of age of the entire human race, as the Creator of a new World Order, and as the Inspirer and Founder of a world civilization.

In the name He bore He [Bahá’u’lláh] combined those of the Imám Ḥusayn, the most illustrious of the successors of the Apostle of God—the brightest ‘star’ shining in the ‘crown’ mentioned in the Revelation of St John—and of the Imám ‘Alí, the Commander of the Faithful, the second of the two ‘witnesses’ extolled in that same Book.  He was formally designated Bahá’u’lláh an appellation specifically recorded in the Persian Bayán, signifying at once the glory, the light and the splendour of God, and was styled the ‘Lord of Lords’, the ‘Most Great Name’, the ‘Ancient Beauty’, the ‘Pen of the Most High’, the ‘Hidden Name’, ‘the Preserved Treasure’, ‘He Whom God will make manifest’, the ‘Most Great Light’, the ‘All-Highest Horizon’, the ‘Most Great Ocean’, ‘the Supreme Heaven’, the ‘Pre-Existent Root’, the ‘Self-Subsistent’, the ‘Day-Star of the Universe’, the ‘Great Announcement’, the ‘Speaker on Sinai’, the ‘Sifter of Men’, the ‘Wronged One of the World’, the ‘Desire of the Nations’, the ‘Lord of the Covenant’, the ‘Tree beyond which there is no passing’.  He [Bahá’u’lláh] derived His descent, on the one hand, from Abraham (the Father of the Faithful) through His wife Katurah, and on the other from Zoroaster, as well as from Yazdigird, the last king of the Sasanian dynasty.  He was moreover a descendant of Jesse, and belonged, through His father, Mírzá ‘Abbás, better known as Mírzá Buzurg—a nobleman closely associated with the ministerial circles of the Court of Fatḥ-‘Alí Sháh—to one of the most

ancient and renowned families of Mázindarán.

To Him [Bahá’u’lláh] Isaiah, the greatest of the Jewish prophets, had alluded as the ‘Glory of the Lord’, the ‘Everlasting Father’, the ‘Prince of Peace’, the ‘Wonderful’, the ‘Counsellor’, the ‘Rod come forth out of the stem of Jesse’ and the ‘Branch grown out of His roots’, Who ‘shall be established upon the throne of David,’ Who ‘will come with strong hand’, Who ‘shall judge among the nations’, Who ‘shall smite the earth with the rod of His mouth, and with the breath of His lips slay the wicked’, and Who ‘shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth’.  Of Him David had sung in His Psalms, acclaiming Him as the ‘Lord of Hosts’ and the ‘King of Glory’.  To Him Haggai had referred as the ‘Desire of all nations’, and Zechariah as the ‘Branch’ Who ‘shall grow up out of His place’, and ‘shall build the Temple of the Lord’.  Ezekiel had extolled Him as the ‘Lord’ Who ‘shall be king over all the earth’, while to His day Joel and Zephaniah had both referred as the ‘day of Jehovah’, the latter describing it as ‘a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of the trumpet and alarm against the fenced cities, and against the high towers.’  His Day, Ezekiel and Daniel had, moreover, both acclaimed as the ‘day of the Lord’, and Malachi described as ‘the great and dreadful day of the Lord’ when the ‘the Sun of Righteousness’ will ‘arise, with healing in His wings’, whilst Daniel had pronounced His advent as signalizing the end of the ‘abomination that maketh desolate’.

To Him Jesus Christ had referred as the ‘Prince of this world’, as the ‘Comforter’ Who will ‘reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgement’, as the ‘Spirit of Truth’ Who ‘will guide you into all truth’, Who ‘shall not speak of Himself, but whatsoever He shall hear, that shall He speak’, as the ‘Lord of the Vineyard’, and as the ‘Son of Man’ Who ‘shall come in the glory of His Father’, ‘in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory’, with ‘all the holy angels’ about Him, and ‘all nations’ gathered before His throne.  To him the Author of the Apocalypse had alluded as the ‘Glory of God’, as ‘Alpha and Omega’, ‘the Beginning and the End’, ‘the First and the Last’.

To Him Muḥammad, the Apostle of God, had alluded in His Book as the ‘Great Announcement’, and declared His Day to be the Day whereon ‘God’ will ‘come down’ ‘overshadowed with clouds’, the Day whereon ‘thy Lord shall come and the angels rank on rank,’ and ‘The Spirit shall arise and the angels shall be ranged in order’.…  To His Day He, in the pages of that same Book, had paid a glowing tribute, glorifying it as the ‘Great Day’, the ‘Last Day’, the ‘Day of God’, the ‘Day of Judgement’, the ‘Day of Reckoning’, the ‘Day of Mutual Deceit’, … the ‘Day when mankind shall stand before the Lord of the world’, … the Day when ‘all that are in the heavens and all that are on the earth shall be terror-stricken, save him whom God pleaseth to deliver,’ ….

The Báb had no less significantly extolled Him as the ‘Essence of Being’, as the ‘Remnant’ of God’, as the ‘Omnipotent Master’, as the ‘Crimson, all-encompassing Light’, as ‘Lord of the visible and invisible’, as the ‘sole Object of all previous Revelations, including The Revelation of the Qá’im Himself’ ….  He had, moreover, declared that He was the ‘first servant to believe in Him’, that He bore Him allegiance ‘before all things were created’, … that ‘the year-old germ that holdeth within itself the potentialities of the Revelation that is to come is endowed with a potency superior to the combined forces of the whole of the Bayán’

‘He around Whom the Point of the Bayán (Báb) hath revolved is come’ is Bahá’u’lláh’s confirmatory testimony to the inconceivable greatness and pre-eminent character of His own Revelation ….  ‘This,’ He furthermore declares, ‘is the king of days’, the ‘Day of God Himself’, the ‘Day which shall never be followed by night’, the ‘Springtime which autumn will never overtake’, ‘the eye to past ages and centuries’, for which ‘the soul of every Prophet of God, of every Divine Messenger, hath thirsted’, for which ‘all the divers kindreds of the earth have yearned’, through which ‘God hath proved the hearts of the entire company of His Messengers and Prophets, and beyond them those that stand guard over His sacred and inviolable Sanctuary, the inmates of the Celestial Pavilion and dwellers of the Tabernacle of Glory’.  ‘In this most mighty Revelation’, He moreover, states, ‘all the Dispensations of the past have attained their highest, their final consummation’.

And last but not least is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s own tribute to the transcendent character of the Revelation identified with His Father: … ‘The mere contemplation of the Dispensation inaugurated by the Blessed Beauty … would have sufficed to overwhelm the saints of bygone ages—saints who longed to partake for one moment

of its great glory.’

The process whereby the effulgence of so dazzling a Revelation was unfolded to the eyes of man was of necessity slow and gradual.  The first intimation which its Bearer received did not synchronize with, nor was it followed immediately by, a disclosure of its character to either His own companions or His kindred.  A period of no less than ten years had to elapse ere its far-reaching implications could be directly divulged to even those who had been intimately associated with Him ….  All He did, in the course of this pre-ordained interval, was to hint, in veiled and allegorical language, in epistles, commentaries, prayers and treatises, which He was moved to reveal, that the Báb’s promise had already been fulfilled, and that He Himself was the One Who had been chosen to redeem it.

Jesus foretold this dramatic event, the climax towards which prophetically the whole Bible moves from beginning to end, when he said:  “And he hath on [his] vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS”. [v. 16]  All the Prophets and Seers of the past foretold the Promised One, and Bahá’u’lláh has fulfilled all these prophetic signs.  “Hear ye O My people!”  What could be more convincing than their monumental confirmations!

“And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God; That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all [men, both] free and bond, both small and great.  And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse, and against his army.  And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image.  These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone [sulphur].  And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which [sword] proceeded out of his mouth:  and all the fowls were filled with their flesh.” [v. 17–21]

The “lake of fire” is remoteness from God, and the remorse that comes as a result of straying further and further from God, is

the greatest hell—the “lake of fire burning with brimstone”.  The meaning of the last sentence is that the last vestige of the old world order will rapidly be destroyed by the sword of Truth that is the Word of God for this Day.

Then, ere long, the whole world will joyfully sing of the fulfilment of these prophetic words of the Psalmist:

Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift [them] up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of Glory shall come in.  Who is this King of Glory?  The Lord of Hosts, he [is] the King of Glory.

20
A new dimension
—the thousand years

The Promised One of all the peoples of the world hath appeared.  All peoples and communities have been expecting a Revelation, and He, Bahá’u’lláh, is the foremost teacher and educator of all mankind.

The scene opens in a new dimension.

“And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.  And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, And cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled:  and after that he must be loosed a little season.” [v. 1–3]

Bottomless pit, as previously stated, is the pit of ignorance and evil.  The angel laid hold on the dragon and bound him a thousand years.  [The terms “Satan” and “Devil” may have been introduced into the text either by poor translation or more likely deliberately.]

‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains

… the one thousand years … signifieth the beginning of this Manifestation until the end of its predominance throughout the contingent world; because this Cause is great, its powers are growing and its signs are dazzling.  It shall continue in elevation, exaltation, growth, promulgation and promotion until it shall reach the apex of its glory in one thousand years—as the day of this Manifestation is one thousand years.

In addition, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the Revelation proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh ushers in “… a cycle that must extend over a period of at least five hundred thousand years.”.  This is an astronomical cycle.  The Adamic Cycle lasted six thousand years—the Bahá’í Grand Cycle will last five hundred thousand years.

“I testify before God,” proclaims Bahá’u’lláh “to the greatness, the inconceivable greatness of this Revelation.  Again and again have We, in most of Our Tablets, borne witness to this truth, that mankind may be roused from its heedlessness.’…  ‘In this most mighty Revelation,’ He unequivocally announces, ‘all the Dispensations of the past have attained their highest, their final consummation.’  ‘That which hath been made manifest in this pre-eminent, this most exalted Revelation, stands unparalleled in the annals of the past, nor will future ages witness its like.’”

“And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgement was given unto them:  and [I saw] the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received [his] mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.” [v. 4]

John saw those who were martyred for Jesus, as well as those who were martyred for the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh in this new Day.  Those were the ones who had not received the mark of the image of the beast on their foreheads or in their hands, nor had they worshipped the beast.

“And they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years” means that the eternal Christ Spirit as revealed through Bahá’u’lláh in this Day, will predominate for the entire Bahá’í Cycle, which will last an astronomical cycle of five hundred thousand years.

“But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished.  This [is] the first resurrection ….” [v. 5]  There are many, many verses in the Bible and in the Bahá’í Sacred Writings, about the first resurrection.  Many people think that “resurrection” refers to the physical body.  However, resurrection refers to the spirit.  Each physical body must die; each body disintegrates or decomposes, because it came into existence by the laws of composition.  Everything that comes into existence by the laws of composition must by the same laws decompose, and all things that exist that did not come into existence by the law of composition, can never become decomposed.  The spirit referred to here, is the human spirit that remains in a condition of deadness, or unawareness, and consequent non-progress.  After the thousand years are finished, those who have remained in “deadness” and who refused to turn to the light, will again be

given the opportunity to awaken and to become filled with spiritual Light and Life.  All the Sacred Books of the world teach this.

“Blessed and holy [is] he that hath part in the first resurrection:  on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.” [v. 6]

According to the Bahá’í teaching the Resurrection has nothing to do with the gross physical body.  That body, once dead, is done with.  It becomes decomposed and its atoms will never be recomposed into the same body.

Resurrection is the birth of the individual to spiritual life, through the gift of the Holy Spirit bestowed through the Manifestation of God.  The grave from which he arises is the grave of ignorance and negligence of God.  The sleep from which he awakens is the dormant spiritual condition in which many await the dawn of the Day of God.  This dawn illumines all who have lived on the face of the earth, whether they are in the body or out of the body, but those who are spiritually blind cannot perceive it.  The Day of Resurrection is not a day of twenty-four hours, but an era which has now begun and will last as long as the present world cycle continues.  It will continue when all traces of the present civilization will have been wiped off the surface of the globe.

Those who have died of the first death, those who are in darkness when the second awakening comes, remain in darkness, but those who have turned toward Jesus Christ and have recognized the Light that He brought into the world, are born of the “first birth” as Jesus, Himself, has stated:  “… Except a man be born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of God.”  In other words, to be born of the “first birth” is not sufficient for this great new cycle, but “Ye must be born again”.  Those who are truly born of the “first birth” will naturally have the capacity and power to recognise the light of the “second birth” and to attain unto it.  To them is given the glorious promise in the sixth verse:  “On such the second death hath no power.”  They will live on in progressive unfoldment of spiritual light and illumination in this great new cycle of Bahá’u’lláh, and shall reign with him a thousand years.  It must be remembered that these verses are prophecies given by Jesus, referring to “Things that must come to pass here-

after”, that is, after CE 96.

“And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of His prison, And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle; the number of whom [is] as the sand of the sea.  And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and (en)compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city:  and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them.” [v. 7–9]

At the end of every cycle, there is an elimination of those things in it that do not belong in the new.  As stated before, each Prophet of God foretold the One to come after Him, and each has given the signs by which He may be recognized when He comes.  We do not recognize the signs, however, until the day of fulfilment.  Then we will recognize the signs and know them.  Jesus foretold in the Bible the coming of the “Comforter” in this day, and all the Prophet-Founders of religious systems have foretold One to come in the “Latter days” Who would unite all mankind and establish Universal Peace.  Bahá’u’lláh is the fulfilment of all the Prophet-Founders, and He in turn, after proving His Station of Prophethood and giving His Message for this Day, has foretold of Others Who will come after Him.  Shoghi Effendi has stated:

… that no one else except the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh can ever lay claim to such a station before the expiration of a full thousand years—are verities which lie embedded in the specific utterances of both the Founder of our Faith and the Interpreter of His Teachings.

“Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration of a full thousand years, such a man is assuredly a lying imposter.”  Bahá’u’lláh also foretells that after the full thousand year period is past, other Manifestations will successively come during the five hundred thousand year cycle that is under the Light of Bahá’u’lláh.  Then at the end of this major cycle, another Manifestation, of very great Universal Station and Mission will come.  Bahá’u’lláh has also declared that He has come to establish Unity in its highest degree of perfection upon the earth during this five thousand century Bahá’í Cycle.  He has also foretold that the great Universal Manifestation Who is to inaugurate the next major cycle, although His signs cannot be recognized until He appears, will be One with a far greater Universal

Message of Power and Light and Love and Truth than it would be possible to reveal today.  That One, when He comes, will establish Unity within and throughout the entire universe.  How clearly this shows that the Divine Plan, which Bahá’u’lláh has revealed to us for this day, is very great, universal and sublime!

The eighth verse seems to indicate a great confusion in the solar system that might cause the advent of the great Universal Manifestation in that far off time—the Noah of that day.  As Noah came before the Flood, so each Prophet always comes before a catastrophe to warn mankind.  There are many interpretations of the words Gog and Magog, and none of them should be belittled.  Three of the most fitting interpretations are:

1.	The historical:  This refers to those countries that have persecuted the dispersed Jewish people, and who will be defeated “by divine intervention” in the form of natural events at the final battle of Armageddon.

2.	The religious:  This alludes to the struggle between the believers in the new Manifestation and the non-believers, during which the believers will be tested and tried, and will finally emerge victorious.

3.	The symbolic:  This refers to and is symbolic of the greater struggle between believing and non-believing interplanetary forces at the end of the five thousand century cycle, when a new Universal Manifestation shall come to unite the entire universe.

“And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and (en)compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city:  and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them.” [v. 9]  This verse is again the symbol of the fire of the love of God, and the purging that always comes whenever a Prophet of God appears, especially at the dawn of a great new Universal Cycle.

“And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet [are], and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever.” [v. 10]  As has been stated before, “forever and ever” signifies  “for a great cycle”; it is derived from an Aramaic word that is not synonymous with the word “eternity”.  The devil was cast in the condition of darkness and despair, “where the beast and the false prophet are” that they no longer might deceive the nations and the people.

“And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from

whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.” [v. 11]  Again the “great white throne” symbolizes the seat of the Manifestation, and He that sat upon it is the Manifestation of God, “from Whose face the earth and the heaven fled away”.  In other words, the corruptions of the old cycle disappeared.  According to Dr Lamsa, the Oriental scholar, the word “world” in Aramaic, the language Jesus spoke, means “whirl”, so that “end of the world” means end of a complete whirl, revolution or cycle.  From now on there is no longer any place for the old cycle or old order, because all things are made new.

“And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened:  and another book was opened, which is [the book] of life:  and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.” [v. 12]

“The dead, small and great” are all those who have remained in darkness, those who have not caught a glimpse of the Glory of God in this new Day nor turned toward His Light.  The “Books” mean the Word of God as given by the Messenger of God in every age, in every religious system.  Another was also Book opened—“The Book of Life”.  Many different terms are applied in describing the Book of Life, such as the Akashic Records, the Cosmic Record, the Record, and many others.  It is well known that sound and light are considered to travel in the form of waves, and some scientists state that every sound uttered in the past is recorded somewhere.  The waves make definite records that cannot be erased.  It is claimed that some scientists are working on highly sensitive instruments by which they are trying to recall those sound and light waves that have created words and images in the so-called “ether bank”.  If successful, they hope to recall sounds and events of the past, even the words and image of Jesus Christ and other great Teachers Who have uplifted mankind.  However, the point to emphasize is not the development of such instruments, but rather the careful consideration of the effects of our words and thoughts, to mirror forth the Will of God and the Love of God today so that we may make better and nobler records in the Book of Life.  We can no longer use iron age or industrial thinking in the information age.  It must be electronic, space age, or spiritual thinking and must result in action.  Scientifically, we have entered the realm beyond matter.  Bahá’u’lláh writes:

Think not the deeds ye have committed

have been blotted from My sight.  By My Beauty!  All your doings hath My Pen graven with open characters upon tablets of chrysolite.

“And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them:  and they were judged every man according to their works.” [v. 13]

Not according to their words, not according to what they would like, but according to their works.  Bahá’u’lláh states:

The essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance of deeds; he whose words exceed his deeds, know verily his death is better than his life.

“And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire.  This is the second death.” [v. 14]  ‘Death” here connotes spiritual deadness, and “hell” is remoteness from God.

“And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.” [v. 15]  “The herald who proclaimed the written names is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Who announceth the names of those who deserve salvation and are firm in the Covenant of God ….”  Those who are far from God, and spiritually dead, will not have their names written in the Book of Life, and will be unable to enter the new Golden Age of the great new Bahá’í Cycle that has just dawned.  Jesus is emphasizing here to John, that all must turn to the Spirit of God released for this Day, with great humility, love, sincerity and understanding, and to “do the works of the Lord”, so that their names may be recorded in the Book of Life, and that their lives may shine with heavenly attributes even as radiant stars.

Resurrection is the birth of the individual to spiritual life, through the gift of the Holy Spirit bestowed through the Manifestation of God.

An intermediary is needed to link two different states of being such as the sun (plasma) and the earth (physical solid), and the Creator and His creation.  Without an intermediary power there could be no relation between these.

The spirit of man is not illumined and quickened through material sources.  It is not resuscitated by investigating phenomena of the world of matter.  “The spirit of man is in need of protection of the Holy Spirit.”

The Holy Spirit it is which, through the mediation of the

Prophets of God, teaches spiritual virtues to man and enables him to attain Eternal Life.

The transmission of the Holy Spirit through each of the Prophets of God brings life to mankind.  It is the only power that can bring resurrection to man.  If you do not plug an electric cord into the power source, you will remain in darkness.  If you do not plug into the power of the Holy Spirit, you will remain in spiritual darkness or deadness.  How do you “Plug-in?”  It is by a sincere desire for spiritual knowledge and a love of God.  The requirements are a purity of heart and steadfastness, and the performance of loving and faithful service in His Kingdom.

In these powerful words, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has given us this soul stirring promise:

I now assure thee, O servant of God, that, if thy mind become empty and pure from every mention and thought and thy heart attracted wholly to the Kingdom of God, forget all else besides God and come in communion with the Spirit of God, then the Holy Spirit will assist thee with a power which will enable thee to penetrate all things, and a Dazzling Spark which enlightens all sides, a Brilliant Flame in the zenith of the heavens, will teach thee that which thou dost not know of the facts of the universe and of the divine doctrine.  Verily, I say unto thee, every soul which ariseth today to guide others to the path of safety and infuse in them the Spirit of Life, the Holy Spirit will inspire that soul with evidences, proofs and facts and the lights will shine upon it from the Kingdom of God.  Do not forget what I have conveyed unto thee from the breath of the Spirit.  Verily, it is the shining morning and the rosy dawn which will impart unto thee the lights, reveal the mysteries and make thee competent in science, and through it the pictures of the Supreme World will be printed in thy heart and the facts of the secrets of the Kingdom of God will shine before thee.

Bahá’u’lláh in the Hidden Words, is calling to all to record their names in the Book of Life, and He reveals three ways of doing it:

O SON OF MAN!  Write all that We have revealed unto thee with the ink of light upon the tablet of thy spirit.  Should this not be in thy power, then make thine ink of the essence of thy heart.  If this thou canst not do, then write with that crimson ink that hath been shed in My path.  Sweeter indeed is this to Me than all else, that its light may endure forever.

21
The city of God
—twelve foundation stones

God Speaks:

“For when My Messengers to any age
Bring My new Laws, They cancel every page
Writ by the past except the page of Love,
For this is writ on Tablets firm as rock
Unchanging, ageless:  and Their hands unlock
With love the door that to My Kingdom leads,
Blest is the soul who Their injunction heeds.

God raises the curtain on the new heaven and the new earth.  The awe-inspiring City of Certitude is clearly explained by Bahá’u’lláh in these soul-stirring words:

When the channel of the human soul is cleansed of all worldly and impeding attachments, it will unfailingly perceive the breath of the Beloved across immeasurable distances, and will, led by its perfume, attain and enter the City of Certitude.  Therein he will discern the wonders of His ancient wisdom, and will perceive all the hidden teachings from the rustling leaves of the Tree - which flourisheth in that City.  With both his inner and his outer ear he will hear from its dust the hymns of glory and praise ascending unto the Lord of Lords, and with his inner eye will he discover the mysteries of ‘return’ and ‘revival’.

That city is none other than the Word of God revealed in every age and dispensation.  In the days of Moses it was the Pentateuch; in the days of Jesus the Gospel; in the days of Muḥammad the Messenger of God the Qur’án; in this day the Bayán; and in the dispensation of Him Whom God will make manifest His own Book—the Book unto which all the Books of former Dispensations must needs be referred, the Book which standeth amongst them all transcendent and supreme.

The above words revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, foreshadowing

His own Revelation, give the Key to the New World Order, the great City of Certitude—the Holy City, foretold by Jesus in the twenty-first chapter of the Book of Revelation.

The first seven verses of this chapter of the Revelation of St John are very hallowed.  We have heard them many times, we have sung them, many poems have been written about them, and we love the words.  Great truths should be analyzed to gain a deeper understanding of them, even though something of the spirit is often lost in the analysis.  After the analysis, the verses should be perused again for the spirit.  These words seem wrapped in an aura of majesty.

“And I saw a new heaven and a new earth:  for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.” [v. 1]  The “new heaven and a new earth” signifies the new Revelation and New World Order, the laws of which Bahá’u’lláh has given to mankind for the New Age.  “The first heaven and the first earth were passed away” means that the old religious system and the old world order had prophetically passed away.  The last clause of the verse, “arid there was no more sea”, is symbolic of anything that divides or separates.  Therefore, this denotes that there would be no more division, separation and strife, but that there would be unity, harmony and a drawing together of all the peoples of the world.

“And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.” [v. 2]  The Holy City, the new Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, is the word of God, the Law of God, as revealed by the Messenger of God for this Day.  It is the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh “Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.”  How is the bride adorned?  Is not the bride beautiful with everything new, clean, pure and white?  That is a vivid symbol of the New World Order, with its basic manifest principles, its lofty shining ideals, and its soul-stirring, enriching creative Truth.

“And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God [is] with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, [and be] their God.” [v. 3]  The Tabernacle of God here refers to that which houses the Divine Spirit of God when “He dwells with men”.  It is none other than the Manifestation of God when he

enters the human Kingdom.  He comes to mankind to reveal the Divine Laws and the Divine Plan, and to teach man again the forgotten path to God.  Each Messenger of God dwells with men for a time, just as Jesus did, just as all the Prophets of God have done.  Since God in His essence is unknowable to men, the Manifestation of God brings to mankind their only possible knowledge of God, by reflecting as a pure mirror the qualities and attributes of God.  Thus mankind is extricated from the web of confusion into which he has become entangled by his own idle fancies and vain imaginings.  Man is liberated and enlightened by the Word of God through His Manifestation, Who is the Divine Spirit of God, the Sublime Reflection of God, the Sun of Reality.

“And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain:  for the former things are passed away.” [v. 4]  Does this mean tear ducts will become atrophied, that there will be no more burying of dead bodies and no more pain?  No, it figuratively means that the causes of sorrow and pain will pass away through the love of God and there will be better spiritual understanding; that in the great new World Order that Bahá’u’lláh has revealed from God, there will be joy, peace, light, harmony, unity and illumination.  Spiritual death, the death of unbelief and materialism, will be overcome.

“And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new.  And he said unto me, Write:  for these words are true and faithful.” [v. 5]  Repeatedly we find in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh the equivalent of the statement, “Behold, I make all things new”.  Since the advent of Bahá’u’lláh, Who was born in Ṭihrán, Persia (Írán), in 1817, what things can we find in the world today as they were then?  What vast changes have taken place!  All things are being made new.  A new age of scientific progress, unprecedented in its scope and rapidity, is apparent.  More progress has been made since 1817 than in all the previous centuries of recorded human history.

“And he said unto me, It is done.  I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.  I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.” [v. 6]  The old cycle is ended, and a new “Alpha and Omega”, “the beginning and the end”, has once more appeared at the dawning of the new Cycle with the same Divine Spirit of God that appeared in Jesus Christ.  The

“fountain of the water of life” is always the Revelator, revealing the life-giving Word of God.  The Word of God is the “water of life”.  Here Jesus is giving a preview of the new Cycle, with the new Messenger of God or “fountain” gushing forth the “water of life” or Word of God, the Love of God, giving it freely unto all Who will partake of it in this Day.

“He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.” [v. 7]  “Overcometh” what?  Does it not mean the godlessness that is in his heart, the ego that still abides within him and motivates him in many ways to cause his unrighteousness?  He that “overcometh” all these susceptibilities shall inherit all goodly things.  We remember that Jesus stated

“But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.”  As we overcome these imperfections, the promise is fulfilled, “… I will be his God and he shall be my son.” [v. 7]

The eighth verse contains a very grave warning:  “But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolators, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone:  which is the second death.” [v. 8]  The people who are warned here will have a part in the “second death”, unless they turn away from these things.  Liars seem to be the worst of the evil doers, for lying is the besetting sin of mankind today and the origin of all evil.

According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Truthfulness is the foundation of all the virtues of the world of humanity.  Without truthfulness, progress and success in all of the worlds of God are impossible for a soul.  When this holy attribute is established in man, all the divine qualities will also become realized.”

Bahá’u’lláh admonishes us:

Beautify your tongues, O people, with truthfulness, and adorn your souls with the ornament of honesty.

Know thou for a certainty that whoso disbelieveth in God is neither trustworthy nor truthful.

Jesus gave this grave warning in the Book of Revelation to save mankind from the “second death”.

“And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will show thee the bride, the Lamb’s wife.  And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descend-

ing out of heaven from God, Having the glory of God:  and her light [was] like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal.” [v. 9–11]

This “great city, the holy Jerusalem”, is the great City of Certitude, the great new World Order, the laws and principles of which have been brought from God to mankind for this New Day.  This new Jerusalem has the “Glory of God”, which in Persian is one word—Bahá’u’lláh.  He it is Who has brought these laws and principles, Whose light is “like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal.”

“And had a wall great and high, [and] had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are [the names] of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel:  On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.” [v. 12–13]

In a previous chapter we learned that the “children of Israel” are those who are the servants of God, who are sealed in their foreheads with the Father’s name.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in a most thought-provoking and moving Tablet, explained the meaning of the “holy Jerusalem” and the “twelve gates” to the city.

Accordingly did Saint John the Divine tell of twelve gates in his vision, and twelve foundations.  By ‘that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God’ is meant the holy Law of God, and this is set forth in many Tablets and still to be read in the Scriptures of the Prophets of the past:  for instance, that Jerusalem was seen going out into the wilderness.

The meaning of the passage is that this heavenly Jerusalem hath twelve gates, through which the blessed enter into the City of God.  These gates are souls who are as guiding stars, as portals of knowledge and grace; and within these gates there stand twelve angels.  By ‘angel’ is meant the power of the confirmations of God - that the candle of God’s confirming power shineth out from the lamp-niche of those souls—meaning that every one of those beings will be granted the most vehement confirming support.

These twelve gates surround the entire world, that is they are a shelter for all creatures.  And further, these twelve gates are the foundation of the City of God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and on each one of these foundations is written the name of one of the Apostles of Christ.  That is to say, each one maketh manifest the perfections, the joyous message, and the excellency of that holy Being.

“And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.  And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.  And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the breadth:  and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs.  The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.” [v. 14–16]

Several faiths have founded their doctrines on this verse.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has given the greater universal meaning of this symbol as the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  He explains the “reed” as follows:

In brief, it is said that:  ‘And he that talked with me had a golden rod to measure the city and the gates thereof and the walls thereof.’  The purport is this, that certain souls guided (people) with a rod of the plant, that is, a reed wherewith he shepherded the sheep, like unto the rod of Moses; other trained (the people) with a rod of iron and drove them, as in the time of Muḥammad (The sceptre of Muḥammad was the sword).  In this Greatest Day the rod of the plant and the rod of iron are changed into a rod which is of pure gold and is from the endless treasuries of the Kingdom of God.”

“And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred [and] forty [and] four cubits, [according to] the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.” [v. 17]  The sum of the digits in 144000, or in 144, is nine, the perfect number, signifying completeness and totality.  Jesus revealed this symbol earlier in the number of those who were sealed “in their foreheads”.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has given the Key to this symbol of completeness, in that those who have gained the nine, or universal consciousness are those who recognize the light and truth as revealed by every Prophet of God.  This includes the One through Whom God is speaking to mankind in this Day, and those who arise to serve Him.  These are they who form the scope of the walls of the Great City, “according to the measure of a perfect man, that is, of the angel”.  That measure is attained in the Christ-like life and lofty station of those who have followed the laws and teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Glory of God, and have thus gained the universal consciousness.

“And the building of the wall of it was [of] jasper:  and the city [was] pure gold, like unto clear glass.” [v. 18]  This City of Certitude would have to be like unto pure gold, spiritual, clear as glass and transparent without flaw or blemish.

“And the foundations of the wall of the city [were] garnished

with all manner of precious stones.  The first foundation [was] jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald; The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.” [v.19–20]

There are many interesting interpretations of these stones.  In ancient times the priest wore a breastplate of precious stones when he entered into the inner tabernacle, or Holy of Holies.  The Key to the meaning of these stones is given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in an address in New York City, in 1912, and in a Tablet to an early believer.  They refer to the twelve principles of the new World Order as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.  It is very interesting and very significant that Jesus, in giving the Revelation of this particular chapter, should have used these symbols as the foundation of the wall of the City, and the new World Order.

We are now living in the Day of fulfilment of the Day of St John’s Book of Revelation and the Divine Laws of the New Day have been revealed to man through God’s latest Manifestation.  His new Book of Laws (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas) is the Law of God of the new Jerusalem that is being built upon the sure foundation of the Word of God.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas is “… the principal repository of that Law which the Prophet Isaiah had anticipated, and which the writer of the Apocalypse had described as the ‘new heaven’ and the ‘new earth,’ as ‘the Tabernacle of God,’ as the ‘Holy City,’ as the ‘Bride,’ the ‘New Jerusalem coming down from God,’ this ‘Most Holy Book,’ whose provisions must remain inviolate for no less than a thousand years, and whose system will embrace the entire planet, may well be regarded as the brightest emanation of the mind of Bahá’u’lláh, as the Mother Book of His Dispensation, and the Charter of His New World Order.”

The Law of God is also described as the Holy City, the New Jerusalem.  It is evident that the New Jerusalem which descends from heaven is not a city of stone, mortar, bricks, earth and wood.  It is the Law of God which descends from heaven and is called new; for it is clear that the Jerusalem which is of stone and earth does not descend from heaven, and that it is not renewed; but that which is renewed is the Law of God.

There are twelve basic principles upon which this New Jerusalem

rests, and which are most remarkably correlated to the twelve precious foundation stones of that Holy City of St John’s vision as regards their significance and their colours.  They are spiritual symbols and not material stones, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said.  “The divine Words are not to be taken according to their outer sense.  They are symbolical and contain realities of spiritual meaning.”  Let us consider them in the order given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, whose sequence the Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, wished maintained.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained the significance of these Foundation Stones in a Tablet to Shahnáz Waite.

The first Bahá’í basic principle is the “Oneness of Mankind”.  As a popular song notes, “Hands may be black, white, yellow, or brown, but the hue of the heart is one”.  “God does not behold differences of hue and complexion; He looks at the hearts.”  The first foundation stone, is the jasper; it is clear, like the hue of the heart.  “The hue of the heart is one.”  In ancient times it was called the bloodstone.

The second basic principle is “The Independent Investigation of Truth”.  Each must be free to seek out the truth in his own way.  The second foundation stone, the sapphire, is a clear blue, “true blue”, and the colour of faith, inspiration, loyalty and truth.  Man must be free to soar in this dome of heaven’s blue truth, and see it with his own eyes.

The third basic principle is “The Foundation of all Religions is One”.  Each Divine Messenger has revealed the same means of attaining the “new heaven and new earth”, but man has corrupted and misrepresented these Divine Laws.  In reality they are all one.  The third foundation stone, the chalcedony, is pure white, of which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said:  That while white is apparent, yet in it are hidden and concealed the seven colours.  In white all colours are brothers and sisters.  White is the symbol of purity, and in its origin each religion is pure, and a brother to every other religion.  Truth can never be antagonistic to itself, nor self-contradictory, for all Truth is one.

The fourth basic principle is “Religion must be the Cause of Unity”.  If it is not, its non-being would be better than its being.  The fourth foundation stone, the emerald, is green.  Green is the colour of harmony and unity.  There is no colour known with which green will not harmonize, as the green foliage blends with every

colour of flower.  Green is the colour of immortality as well as of humility.

The fifth basic principle is “Religion must be in accord with Science and Reason”.  Neither must deny the other.  They must travel this united highway and together build a better world.  The fifth foundation stone, the sardonyx, is red and brown, in layers or usually flecked with white, according to the way it is held.  So it is with science and religion; they are, in essence one, but differ in colour or manifestation.  Today they are coming closer together in building a better world for all mankind.

The sixth basic principle is “The Equality of Men and Women”.  They must be as the two wings of a bird, each equally developed.  This was not taught by the prophets of the past.  The sixth foundation stone, the sardius, is a stone usually in two layers one white and one red, symbolical of the two in one, who unitedly further the progress of mankind.

The seventh basic principle is “Removal of all Prejudice”, Religious, Racial, National, Political, etc.  The seventh foundation stone, the pure Chrysolite, is exquisitely clear, translucent, and slightly tinted green.  We find references to the Chrysolite Tablet in the ancient writings.  Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Chrysolite Tablet in which He emphasizes the abolition of all prejudice.  Chrysolite is the symbol of absolute sincerity and truthfulness, purity and selflessness.  Only when our hearts become pure and are free from every form of prejudice, can they become the chrysolite tablets whereon may be engraved our loftiest thoughts, attitudes and motives.

The eighth basic principle is “Universal Peace”.  The eighth foundation stone, the beryl, is light greenish blue, somewhat like the crest of the ocean wave, as it mounts toward its summit.  It is the blue of faith and loyalty to our brother man, the green of unity and humility, blending harmoniously into one whole, like a beautiful bouquet of delicate flowers.  This inner peace established in the hearts of man, will also establish Universal Peace.

The ninth basic principle is “Universal Education”.  The ninth foundation stone, the topaz, the glory of the sun, is symbolic of the light of knowledge and the glory of wisdom that universal education will establish in the world, when the golden topaz, the light of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, is understood and lived.  The illumination of education must become the foundation

of the New World Order.

The tenth basic principle is “The spiritual solution of the economic problem”.  The tenth foundation stone, the chrysoprasus, is like opaque chrysolite, a greenish shade which denotes truthfulness, justice, sincerity and purity of heart; these are the prerequisites necessary for establishing the means for the solution of all economic problems.  They are embodied in the Golden Rule, “Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you” and in the new Golden Rule:  “Thou shalt love thy neighbour more than thyself.”

The eleventh basic principle is “A Universal Language”.  The eleventh foundation stone, the jacinth, is somewhat like the jasper, or blood stone, and is rose red, the colour of the heart.  Thus the hue of the heart and of the lips is one.  A race can understand the heart of another race only when it can speak the same language.  An international body shall select a suitable language to be used as an auxiliary language by all the peoples of the world.

The twelfth basic principle is “An International Tribunal, a Universal House of Justice or Parliament of Man”.  The twelfth foundation stone, the amethyst, is violet.  It symbolizes spiritual light, healing, serenity, justice and reverence.  This international tribunal must be as the ultra-violet rays for the “healing of the nations”.  The parliament must seek spiritual light and guidance in all reverence from the Supreme Being, that it may fulfil its high destiny of establishing security, justice and serenity to the nations of the world and to the hearts of all mankind.  The Universal House of Justice was first established in 1963.

Its [the Universal House of Justice] rulings shall be in accordance with the commands and teachings of Baha'u'llah, and that which the Universal House of Justice ordains shall be obeyed by all mankind.  This international House of Justice shall be appointed and organized from the Houses of Justice of the whole world, and all the world shall come under its administration.

The Universal House of Justice will bring about peace, justice, and adjudicate and implement agreements among peoples of the world when its fragrance has been sufficiently diffused.

Upon this safe and sure foundation the “New Jerusalem” will be built.  There is no need of man, whether physical, mental or spiritual, that has not been met in the new laws revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.  All the nations will indeed rejoice when Bahá’u’lláh’s laws become fully established in the world.  Then will appear that Holy City, wherein “… God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain:  for the former things are passed

away.…  And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day:  for there shall be no night there.  And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.” [v. 4, 25–26]

The Holy City must first be built in each heart, individually, that in turn they may become one of the precious stones of which the Universal City of the New Heaven and the New Earth will be constructed.  The structure itself will rest upon the foundation of the above twelve basic principles.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said that the principles of Bahá’u’lláh must be studied one by one until they are understood and realized in mind and heart, until we acquire built-in-nobleness of character; only then will we become strong followers of the Light, and truly spiritual, heavenly soldiers of God acquiring true civilization and spreading it throughout the world.  This will be the Paradise that is to come on earth, wherein all mankind will gather together under the Sacred Tent in the Kingdom of Glory.

We must have the sublime faith that inspired an Australian soldier who was found dead in Flanders Field with his bloodstained manuscript in his coat pocket.

Ye who have faith to look with fearless eyes,
Beyond the tragedy of a world at strife,
And know that out of death and night shall arise,
The dawn of ampler life.
Rejoice! whatever anguish rend the heart,
That God has given you a priceless dower;
To live in these great times and have your part
In Freedom’s crowning hour;
That you may tell your sons who see the light
High in the heavens—their heritage to take—
“I saw the powers of Darkness put to flight
I saw the morning break.”

We, too, shall see the “powers of darkness” put to flight and “See the morning break”.  With the Light of the glad New Day, we shall also see the New Jerusalem that has descended from heaven as a bride adorned for her husband, that Holy City which “… had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it:  for the Glory of God (Bahá’u’lláh) did lighten it, and the Lamb (the Báb) [is] the light thereof.” [v. 23]  Upon the solid foundation of the laws of God it will stand for ages and cycles to come.  May all mankind

ere long joyously sing the song of the Holy City with heartfelt gratitude!

“And the twelve gates [were] twelve pearls; every several gate was of one pearl:  and the street of the city [was] pure gold, as it were transparent glass.  And I saw no temple therein:  for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it.” [v. 21–22]

The twelve gates as before stated, were twelve pearls, or twelve holy souls, one for each gate.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that these holy souls are the Disciples of Jesus, symbolizing their high spiritual attributes.  In another sense, the twelve gates also refer to the twelve principles of Bahá’u’lláh, which have already been explained.  Each one of them, when recognized and followed, becomes the means of entering and of establishing the New World Order.  “And the street of the City was of pure gold”.  “Pure gold” signifies the spiritual laws and values.  The whole city was built upon these spiritual laws, the pure truth, the Divine Law of Love as if it were “transparent glass”, that is to say, without flaw or blemish.  “And I saw no temple therein:  for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it”. [v. 22]  In other words the Spirit of Christ is returned in the Manifestation of God for this day, Bahá’u’lláh, and also the Lamb, His Holiness the Báb.  They revealed the Laws and Principles upon which the new civilization is being built.  “Love is the greatest law in this vast universe of God!”

“And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it:  for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb [is] the light thereof.” [v. 23]  Repeatedly throughout the Book of Revelation and in other Books of the Bible, the “Glory of God” (Bahá’u’lláh in Arabic) is emphasized in the prophecies regarding the “latter Day”.

“And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it:  and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it.  And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day:  for there shall be no night there.” [v. 24–25]

Reference is made here to the nations that shall be gathered together into the new world civilization.  The nations shall unite in one great World Commonwealth or Federation of Nations, and the kings and the rulers of the earth will bring “their honour and glory” into it.  The gates of that city will remain open for there “shall be no night there” in the New Day, the Day of God.  The gates, or

Principles of Bahá’u’lláh, cannot be closed, they will continue to be open, and all the peoples of the world will enter into the new magnificent World Civilization by means of their pervading influence.

“And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.” [v. 26]  The finest and most worthy and enlightened of all the nations shall be gathered into it.

“And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither [whatsoever] worketh abomination, or [maketh] a lie:  but they which are written in the Lamb’s Book of life.” [v. 27]  Nothing that “Worketh abomination, or maketh a lie”, in our old civilization, will be lifted up into the new.  The world is today undergoing a period of purging, a period of eliminating everything that defiles, works abomination, or is contrary to truth.  Only those souls, institutions, forms, and systems that are worthy will be lifted up into the new World Order.  The Lamb’s Book of Life contains only the names of those who are worthy, after having been purged, tested, tried and proven worthy, and they are the “called” or the “chosen”.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes the advent of the Kingdom of God upon the earth as follows:

Humanity shall come within the bounds of security, the Prophethood of all the Messengers of God shall be established, Zion shall leap and dance, Jerusalem shall rejoice, the Mosaic flame shall ignite, the Messianic light shall shine, the world will become another world and humanity shall put on another power.  This is the greatest divine bestowal; this is the effulgence of the Kingdom of God; this is the day of illumination; this is the merciful century.

The soul rejoices in this lovely song by Shahnáz Waite.

City of our King
O come, thou New Jerusalem, thou city of the blest!
Therein God’s sun shall ever shine and weary hearts find rest;
Where heaven and earth are made anew and passed away the old;
Where Love Divine rules over all, as Shepherd of one Fold.
Thy gates shall ever open be, thy temple doors thrown wide,
And every tear be wiped away, each longing satisfied:
God’s promises shall be fulfilled, His Kingdom come on earth,
’Tis thou, O fair Jerusalem, the city of New Birth!

Not in celestial realms alone, but here within each heart,
Shall be the New Jerusalem, whose joys will ne’er depart;
Where every voice shall sing God’s praise, and loud Hosannas ring;
O come, thou New Jerusalem, thou City of Our King!

22
Power of the Holy Spirit
—new heaven and new earth

Worlds, holy and spiritually glorious, will be unveiled to your eyes.

God lifts the curtain on this epic in the greatest drama in all history.

And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this [is] our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this [is] the LORD; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.

Paul in I Corinthians gives a wonderful prophecy and promise of the future:

… Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.

The prophet Joel also foretells:

And it shall come to pass afterward, [that] I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions:  And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit.

And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the veil that is spread over all nations.  He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth:  for the Lord hath spoken [it].

“And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.  In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, [was there] the tree of life, which bare twelve [manner of] fruits, [and] yielded her fruit every month:  and the leaves of the tree [were] for the healing of the nations.  And there shall be no more curse:

but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:  And they shall see his face; and his name [shall be] in their foreheads.  And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither the light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light:  and they shall reign for ever and ever.” [v. 1–5]

The above verses are a re-emphasis and summation of the preceding chapter.  The pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb, is the New Revelation with its laws and principles and the ocean of truth revealed for this New Day that pours forth from the Word of God as written and recorded by Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb.  “In the midst of it” signifies in the very heart of this great Revelation.  The “Tree of Life, which bare twelve manner of fruits” or the twelve principles that we found in the previous chapter to represent the foundations of the New World Order.  The principles are the gates by which mankind enters into the new civilization.  This analogy brings the promise of Universal Peace as one of the fruits of the Tree of Life designed for “the healing of the nations” for there shall “be no more curse” of war.  This truly is a preview of the Kingdom of God on earth.  The throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him; and they shall see his face and his name shall be on their foreheads.  This name is the Name of the Father, the name that God has revealed for man in this Day to be “in their foreheads”.  It is written in their inner consciousness with the ink of light that illumines their souls and through them gives light to the whole world.

At long last, mankind has entered the Seventh Day, the great Creational Day of God, in which “there shall be no night”, and they shall give glory unto the Lord God Who giveth them light “for ever and ever”, which means for the Bahá’í Universal Cycle of five hundred thousand years.  Bahá’u’lláh revealed that this is “… the Day that shall not be followed by night ….”

“And he said unto me, These sayings [are] faithful and true:  and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.”  v. 6.  Then Jesus proclaimed, “Behold, I come quickly:  blessed [is] he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book.” [v. 7]

And John spoke:  “And I John saw these things, and heard

[them].  And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things.  Then saith he unto me, See [thou do it] not:  for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book:  worship God.” [v. 8–9]

In other words, the angel belonged to the human orbit of evolution, having progressed spiritually and reached an angelic state.  He said to John therefore, “Do not worship me, but worship God only.”

“And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book:  for the time is at hand.” [v. 10]  Prophecy is no longer sealed because this is the day of fulfilment, “the time of the end”.  This recalls the angel’s words in the Old Testament.  “And he said, Go thy way, Daniel:  for the words [are] closed up and sealed till the time of the end.”  The “time of the end” is now at hand.

“He that is unjust, let him be unjust still:  and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still:  and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still:  and lie that is holy, let him be holy still.”  v. 11.

In other words we have come to the bottom of a great new step.  Humanity is today undergoing that period of cleansing, testing, and measuring, when each soul is given the power to choose the next step on the path of his soul:  either to remain in a condition of injustice, corruption and filthiness, or to be lifted to a higher plateau of progress and to a state of worthiness, righteousness and holiness.

It is the Great Day of Decision for Every Human Soul!

“And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward [is] with me, to give every man according as his work shall be.” [v. 12]

Here Jesus re-emphasizes that it is not what somebody else thinks about us, it is not what we believe, but it is according to our works that we are judged.  This is that day of reward and punishment when the old cycle is rolled up; let us not be rolled up with it because of our inability to make the Great Decision!

“I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.  Blessed [are] they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city.” [v. 13–14]

The tree of life is the tree of immortality but greater than immortality, it is the “tree of eternal life”.  This is eternal progress.

“For without [are] dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.” [v. 15]

A list of people is given of those who will be rolled up with the old order.  Truthfulness, trustworthiness, honesty, integrity, kindness and the love of God and of one’s fellowman are the essential qualities to become worthy to enter into the New World Order.  “Nothing that maketh an abomination or a lie can enter therein.”  What a period of cleansing there must be!  Each soul should sincerely ask himself, “Am I striving to become worthy?”

The Book of Revelation is divided into three general divisions:  prologue, revelation and epilogue.  This is the epilogue:  “I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto these things in the churches.  I am the root and the offspring of David, [and] the bright and morning star.” [v. 16]

Jesus is stating here that He has given us the Revelation that He foretold in the very first verse of the Book when He said:

This is the Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto Him, to show unto His servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified [it] by His angel unto his servant John.

Herein Jesus is saying:  I have given you this great Revelation to show you things that must come to pass and to testify unto you these things in the churches.  Let it be remembered that the “churches” referred to are not only the seven little missions of Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamos, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and Laodicea, but in a larger sense represent the seven great living religious systems of the Adamic Cycle:  Sabeanism, Hinduism, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, Christianity and Islám.  In their origin, they are all divinely ordained.

The Scriptural statement “… That Christ cometh of the seed of David …” testifies to the essential unity of all the Prophets.  Abraham was the root, or ancestor of David, while Jesus was the descendent of David, yet He claims to be both.  Jesus branched from David, through Jesse, who was the ancient forefather of Bahá’u’lláh.  This is a marvellous proof given by Jesus Christ Himself of the return of the Christ Spirit in Bahá’u’lláh, in the form of another perfect Man of God, and refutes many of the dogmas of Christian theology.  The genealogical distinction of Jesus the Christ, that of being a

descendant of Abraham, was shared by Zoroaster, Moses, Muḥammad, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

Jesus states that He is “the bright and morning star”.  He is saying that He is the harbinger of the Sun of the New Day, just as the morning star of the celestial heavens is the herald of the dawn of the New Day brought by the appearance of the physical sun of our solar system.  The song of the morning star, if you listen and watch when it appears above the horizon, is:  “Awake!  Awake!  It is the time for the Dawn of a New Day!  The Sun is about to rise!”  So Jesus is here telling us to awake, that the spiritual Sun of Truth is about to rise, to usher in the New Day—the New Kingdom of God on earth.  He is the Glory of God, Bahá’u’lláh, Who teaches that:

the Reality of Christ is the embodiment of the divine virtues and attributes of God

Christ is the focal point of the Holy Spirit

He is born of the Holy Spirit

He is raised up by the Holy Spirit

The Reality of Christ does not derive from Adam, nor any other human ancestor.  No!  It is born of the Holy Spirit, and Bahá’u’lláh identifies Jesus Christ with the “Quickening Spirit”.

“And the Spirit and the bride say, Come.  And let him that heareth say, Come.  And let him that is athirst come.  And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.” [v. 17]  The Word of God is the “water of life” that Jesus Christ brought, and the understanding of which Bahá’u’lláh has renewed and restored, bringing redemption, love, unity, peace and justice to the children of men for this new cycle.

“For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book:  And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and [from] the things which are written in this book.” [v. 18–19]

The Book of Life is the mirror that reflects every thought, word and deed.  Bahá’u’lláh declared:

The mirror of His knowledge reflecteth, with complete distinctness, precision and fidelity, the doings of all men.

Every act ye meditate is as clear to Him as that act which is already accomplished.

The Book of Revelation has survived the centuries with fewer changes, perhaps, than any other book of the Christian Bible.  It has remained, perhaps the purest, and some say, the

greatest book of the entire Bible because of these two verses, man’s fear of changing it, and because he did not have the Master Keys to interpret it.  The Gospel of John is undoubtedly the most spiritual book in the Bible, but it too has probably gone through many changes, translations and interpretations.  This total recognition by John of Jesus Christ’s prophetic words is a sublime expression of the purity of heart and a shining example for every human soul!

“He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly:  Amen.”  John instantly replied, “Even so, come, Lord Jesus.” [v. 20]

In conclusion, Jesus here is re-emphasizing that after giving this Revelation to John in CE 96, He will surely come again.  The entire Bahá’í World is proclaiming the glad tidings that the same Christ Spirit that came in Jesus, has returned again in the Tabernacle of Bahá’u’lláh for the New Day, thus fulfilling all the prophetic signs foretold by Jesus!  John ends his Revelation adding the early Christian benediction:  “The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [be] with you all.  Amen.” [v. 21]

May our hearts sing out in joyous ecstasy these creative words:

Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.  For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people:  but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee.

O thou who art waiting, tarry no longer, for He is come.  Behold His Tabernacle and His Glory dwelling therein.  It is the Ancient Glory, with a new Manifestation.

Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the ‘Most Great Peace’ shall come.

I bear witness, O friends! that the favour is complete, the argument fulfilled, the proof manifest and the evidence established.  Let it now be seen what your endeavours in the path of detachment will reveal.  In this wise hath the divine favour been fully vouchsafed unto you and unto them that are in heaven and on earth.  All praise to God, the Lords of all Worlds.

The Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh

It was April 1863 in the great sprawling city of Baghdád, once

the cultural capital of the world.  Here Bahá’u’lláh received the edict from the government of Írán that He and His family were to be sent far, far away to an unknown destination.  They camped for twelve days in the Garden of Riḍván, the Garden of Roses, just outside the city, while preparing the caravan for the journey.  They were besieged by people, who came to express their respect and love, when the news spread of their departure.  All the notables of Baghdád, even the governor himself came to honour the departing prisoner.

Roses were heaped so high in the tent of Bahá’u’lláh that the friends could not see over them, and each departing guest left with a rose as a token of Bahá’u’lláh’s Love.

One night when the moon was full, the air soft and balmy, and the nightingales singing so loudly one could scarcely hear His words, Bahá’u’lláh walked up and down the moon-flecked path.  He was a majestic figure with flowing robes and a tall felt head-piece, the sign of Prophethood.  His followers were weeping bitterly for they would see Him no more.

Suddenly He stopped, looked down upon them with indescribable majesty and compassion.  The Hour had struck.  It seemed as though the nightingales ceased their singing, as though all creation stood still, that they might hear His every word.  He announced the glad tidings that He was the One Whose coming had been foretold by the Báb, the “Promised One of all the Prophets”, the “Risen Christ”, the “Glory of God”, and the “King of Kings”!

As the power and immensity of His Words reached the souls of these sorrowing ones, their bitter weeping suddenly changed to joy, exultant joy!  They pressed their lips to His garments, His shoes, even the ground upon which He stood, and the nightingales began their rapturous singing.

A new flood of the Holy Spirit was released in the world!  A new direction came into being!  A new symphonic rhythm vibrated forth!

A new Creation was born!

May every human soul ere long fervently supplicate in these Prayers of Bahá’u’lláh.

O God, teach us Thy Oneness and give us a realization of Thy Unity, that we may see no one save Thee.  Thou art the Merciful and the Giver of bounty!

I yield Thee such thanks as can cause the Nightingale of Glory to pour forth its melody in the highest heaven: …  I yield Thee such thanks as can fill the heavens and the earth with the signs of Thy transcendent Essence, and assist all created things to enter the Tabernacle of Thy nearness and Thy Presence.  I yield Thee such thanks as can make every created thing to be a book that shall speak of Thee, and a scroll that shall unfold Thy praise.

The time fore-ordained unto the peoples and kindreds of the earth is now come.  The promises of God, as recorded in the holy Scriptures, have all been fulfilled.…  Happy is the man that pondereth in his heart that which hath been revealed in the Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  Meditate upon this, O ye beloved of God, and let your ears be attentive unto His Word, so that ye may, by His grace and mercy, drink your fill from the crystal waters of constancy ….

This is the Day which the Pen of the Most High hath glorified in all the holy Scriptures.…  It is incumbent in this Day, upon every man to place his whole trust in the manifold bounties of God, and arise to disseminate, with the utmost wisdom, the verities of His Cause.  Then, and only then, will the whole earth be enveloped with the morning light of His Revelation.

Praise be to God, the Lord of all the worlds!

23
Prophecies fulfilled by
the advent of Jesus Christ

In turning the pages of history, we find that there are many prophecies in the Old Testament that have been fulfilled.  According to the Talmud, the ancient book of Jewish Law, the site where King Solomon’s Temple was to be built was a field left by a father to his two sons whom he loved dearly.  The two boys ploughed, planted, cultivated and harvested together.  As each considered his brother’s need, each became convinced that his brother should receive more than half of the harvest.

Therefore each, one night, took all the sheaves he could carry from his storehouse and started toward his brother’s house.  They were surprised to meet each other midway in the field with arms full of sheaves.  Each sensing the thought in the mind of the other, the brothers dropped their sheaves and embraced.  The Talmud says that on that soil, consecrated by the tears and love of true brotherhood, the foretold Temple of Solomon was erected.  Thus that prophecy was fulfilled.

Is not this the same basis on which we must build the New World Order; a basis of genuine brotherhood, where, instead of asking “What do I get?” we ask “Did my brother get what he was entitled to receive?”  “What can I do for him?”

There are many prophecies of Solomon, David, Moses and others that were fulfilled during the Old Testament times.  There are many prophecies foretold in the Old Testament regarding Jesus Christ that are fulfilled by New Testament events.  It is important that we consider these now.  The following brief references may inspire further study.

Prophecies about Christ

The advent of Jesus Christ fulfilled in many ways the Old Testament prophecies regarding His coming.

All of these prophetic statements regarding the coming of Jesus Christ, and many more, have been fulfilled.  Therefore, those referring to the Promised One to come in this Day, Whom Jesus and all the other Prophets foretold, must also most certainly come to pass.

24
The promised one
—the second coming of the Christ Spirit

Does the Bible contain signs that will help us to recognize the Promised One?  Yes, many.  It tells of Christ coming in the Glory of the Father, where the two Manifestations of the latter days will appear, where the teachings will be given, and even the titles by which They shall be known in that Day.  For example:

Jesus clearly foretold, “For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he shall reward every man according to his works.”

But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God (Bahá’u’lláh), and Jesus standing on the right hand of God.

For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and [in his] Father’s, and with the holy angels.

“… he that hath seen me hath seen the Father ….”—the same Divine Spirit.

And I will set my throne in Elam ….

In the Bible, “throne” is often used as the symbol of the “Word of God”, or “The rank of the Manifestation”.  So the meaning is that the Word of God, or the promised Manifestation, will appear in Elam.  The Báb, who was the Forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh, was born in the city of Shíráz, in that part of Írán that was formerly known as Elam.  His proclamation of the coming of the Promised One of the New Day, was made on 23 May 1844 in Shíráz.  Daniel also refers to the Province of Elam as the place of vision in the latter days.

In the Gospel of John, in the words of Jesus, we read:

But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, [even] the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me.

He shall glorify me:  for he shall receive of mine, and shall show [it] unto you.

I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.  Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth is come, he will guide you into all truth: … but whatsoever he shall hear, [that] shall he speak; and he will show you things to come.

In a clear far-reaching statement, Bahá’u’lláh has given both warning and guidance to the Christian World:

Beware, O Concourse of the Son [Christians]!  Cast it not behind you, but hold thereunto.  It is better for you than all that which is before you! …  Verily, the Spirit of Truth is come, to guide you into all Truth.  Verily, He speaketh not from Himself, nay, but rather from the All-Knowing and Wise.  He is the One Whom the Son hath glorified.…  Abandon that which is before you, O people of the earth, and take that which is commanded you by Him Who is the Powerful, the Faithful.

Bahá’u’lláh translated into English means the “Glory of God” and the “King of Glory”—the title usually given in the Bible to the Manifestation of God for the New Day.  Bahá’u’lláh has in Jesus Christ’s own words “testified of me”, “and shall glorify Me”, and in His many Books, Bahá’u’lláh has praised and exalted the Divine Station of Jesus Christ and explained the essence of His teachings.

Know thou that when the Son of Man yielded up His breath to God, the whole creation wept with a great weeping.  By sacrificing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused into all created things.  Its evidences, as witnessed in all the peoples of the earth, are now manifest before thee.  The deepest wisdom which the sages have uttered, the profoundest learning which any mind hath unfolded, the arts which the ablest hands have produced, the influence exerted by the most potent of rulers, are but manifestations of the quickening power released by His transcendent, His all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit.

Jesus Christ foretold:  “But the Comforter, [which is] the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.”  And again:  “Nevertheless, I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away:  for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.”

Bahá’u’lláh declares:

“The Comforter Whose advent all the scriptures have promised is now come that He may reveal unto you all knowledge and wisdom.  Seek Him over the entire surface

of the earth, haply ye may find Him.”  “I am the One Whom the tongue of Isaiah hath extolled, the One with Whose name both the Torah and the Evangel were adorned.”  “The glory of Sinai hath hastened to circle round the Day-Spring of this Revelation, while from the heights of the Kingdom the voice of the Son of God is heard proclaiming:  ‘Bestir yourselves, ye proud ones of the earth, and hasten towards Him.’  Carmel hath in this day hastened in longing adoration to attain His court, whilst from the heart of Zion there cometh the cry:  ‘The promise of all ages is now fulfilled.  That which had been announced in the holy writ of God, the Beloved, the Most High, is made manifest!’”

The Prophets all foretold the coming of a New Day.  Isaiah wrote:

Sing unto the Lord a new song, [and] his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the isles, and the inhabitants thereof.

For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth:  and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.

And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold I make all things new.  And he said unto me, Write:  for these words are true and faithful.

Bahá’u’lláh’s words proclaim:

Soon, will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead.

The day is approaching when We will have rolled up the world and all that is therein, and spread out a new Order in its stead.

The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great, this new World Order.  Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.

Know thou of a certainty that the Day Star of Truth hath, in this Day, shed upon the world a radiance, the like of which bygone ages have never witnessed.  Let the light of His glory, O people, shine upon you, and be not of the negligent.

God has spoken through the mouths of His Holy Prophets since the world began, and each One has foretold and given the signs by which man can recognize the Promised One when He comes.  Each One successively reveals more of the light of Truth as man unfolds spiritually from infancy to childhood, to youth

and to the age of maturity.  Even as Moses gave light according to the infancy of mankind and foretold the coming of His Successor, so Jesus gave more of the light of Truth and revealed the signs of the One Who would follow Him.  The Light of Revelation shineth in this Day in meridian splendour and Bahá’u’lláh foretells the Ones to come.

When all things are made new, then obviously God speaks through a new name.

And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory:  and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord shall name.

And the Lord shall be king over all the earth:  in that day shall there be one Lord, and his name one.

Jesus said:  “… Take heed that ye be not deceived:  for many shall come in my name, saying, I am [Christ]; and the time draweth near:  go ye not therefore after them.”

Bahá’u’lláh is the name chosen, not by any one of the religions of the past, but is the New Name that the mouth of the Lord has Himself revealed, for all peoples over the earth.  This new Name unites all peoples, as Jesus foretold, into one Fold with one Shepherd.

All the peoples of the world are awaiting two Manifestations, Who must be contemporaneous; all wait for the fulfilment of this promise.

Moses Maimonides, 1135–1204, the founder of Jewish theological law that the Jews have strictly observed throughout the centuries, foretold the coming of two Messiahs, One announcing the Other, and gave the signs of Their coming.  In the Old Testament the Jews also have the promise of the coming of the Lord of Hosts and Elijah, Whom they call Messiah ben Joseph and the Messiah ben David, one heralding the other.  In the Gospel, the return of Christ and Elijah is promised.  All these are fulfilled in the coming of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

In Islám, there is the promise of the Mahdí and the Messiah, and it is the same with the Zoroastrians and the other religious systems.  Each faith expects the advent to herald the beginning of a new era of human experience, when the world will be judged according to its works, and the Kingdom of God will become established upon the earth with peace and equity for all mankind.

“And the glory of the Lord came into the house by the way

of the gate whose prospect [is] toward the east. … and, behold, the glory of the Lord filled the house.”  All of the prophecies are unanimous in declaring that the Glory of the Lord shall come to the Holy Land from the East.  The Glory of the Lord, Bahá’u’lláh, was born in Írán, was heralded by the Báb, meaning the Gate, or Door to the New Age.  Bahá’u’lláh was taken as a life prisoner to Mt Carmel in the Holy Land—thus again is prophecy fulfilled today.

Isaiah foretold the place of His coming.

The wilderness and solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.  It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing:  the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord, [and] the excellency of our God.

And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the veil that is spread over all nations.

A most interesting prophecy of the place also occurs in Micah:  “[In] that day [also] he shall come even to thee from Assyria, and [from] the fortified cities, and from the fortress even to the river, and from sea to sea, and [from] mountain to mountain.”  See the maps at the end of the book.

Bahá’u’lláh, the great New World Educator, was born in Ṭihrán, the capital city of Írán, which is located in a part of the ancient Assyrian Empire.

Not by any effort on His part to fulfil prophecy, but as a prisoner of the government, Bahá’u’lláh was taken under guard from Ṭihrán to Baghdád, to the fortified city of Constantinople, to Adrianople, and finally to the fortress of ‘Akká.  He was taken from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean Sea, and from the Sar-Galú mountain in Kurdistán to Mount Carmel.  He gave His teachings for the Day of Unity and Peace.  In this tortuous journey the ancient prophecy recorded by Micah and other Prophets was quite literally fulfilled.  “For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also [he that is] born in his kingdom becometh poor.”  He was banished to the solitary desert place of the prison of ‘Akká in Palestine.  He gave His Teachings in the valley of Sharon and upon Mount Carmel, so that those places quite literally saw the Glory of the Lord through His Manifestation, just as Isaiah had promised.  See the maps at the end of the book.

In the Book of Revelation, we read of One riding on a white horse Whose name is “called the Word of God”.  “And he hath on [his] vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, and LORD OF LORDS.”

After giving all the proofs of His station, Bahá’u’lláh, the Spirit of Truth, declared in these soul-stirring words:

He Who is the King of Kings hath appeared, arrayed in His most wondrous glory, and is summoning you unto Himself, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  Take heed lest pride deter you from recognizing the Source of Revelation, lest the things of this word shut you out as by a veil from Him Who is the Creator of heaven.  Arise, and serve Him Who is the Desire of all nations, Who hath created you through a word from Him, and ordained you to be, for all time, the emblems of His sovereignty.

The foregoing are a few of the convincing signs and evidences that are completed.  The argument is now fulfilled, the proof manifest and evidence established.  May we now, sincerely and prayerfully, study and meditate on the history of the Bahá’í Faith as related to this remarkable divine communication from Jesus Christ—The Book of Revelation with the Keys given by Bahá’u’lláh, the Promised One.

25
A brief history of the Bahá’í Faith

Civilizations rise and fall; crises come and go; a cycle begins, rises to its culmination and ends, and another cycle begins.  The great turning points in history mark the decline of one social order and the rise of the new one.  Few will doubt that we are experiencing such a crisis today.  How few are those who realize that this world-shaking crisis means not only the rolling up of an old order and the birth of a new one, but also the dawning of a new cycle with new laws, new principles, new patterns and a nobler way of life.  It is a new creation!

History shows that these great cyclic steps forward are the result of a fresh outpouring of the Holy Spirit through one of the Chosen Divine Channels or Messengers of God.  Sometimes They are called the Divine Educators or Holy Prophets Who have come as Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus Christ and Muḥammad, to lift mankind a step higher in the Path towards God.

The Bahá’í world community is proclaiming the Glad Tidings that the Holy Spirit is released in this Day through Bahá’u’lláh, “the Promised One”, Who has brought the Word of God and Whose universal principles and quickening power have already become established in human consciousness.  We begin to see the brotherhood of man in terms of social and spiritual reality.  We begin to envision the fulfilment of the glorious words of Jesus that the Golden Age of Peace and Unity will soon be established upon the earth.

Slowly the veil lifts from the future.  Along whatever road men may look out, they will see before them some guiding truth, some leading principle, some basic law that Bahá’u’lláh revealed long ago and has become part of the thinking and of the spirit of this age.

On 23 May 1844, a radiant youth of Shíráz, Persia, known as the Báb meaning “The Door of the Spirit” proclaimed His Mission

as heralding the coming of a Divine Educator Who would quicken the souls, illumine the minds, unite the consciousness, and remould the customs of mankind.  After six years of heroic effort, steadfastness and ardent teaching, the result of which rent the Muslim World in twain, this radiant Comet of Light, the Prophet, the Báb, became a victim of fanatical persecution and was publicly martyred in Tabríz on 9 July 1850.

Bahá’u’lláh, meaning the “Glory of God” or the “Splendour of God”, Whom the Báb foretold, then unveiled Himself, and gave the Glad Tidings to the entire world that the Holy Spirit had again come to revivify humanity in its hour of need, that a new and greater cycle had begun, that the Day foretold by Jesus and all the Prophets—the Age of Brotherhood, and the Knowledge of God and the Day of Peace had dawned.  He summoned all the people of the world to drink from the spiritual fountain of Everlasting Truth, and to unite to build a better world.

Desperate forces of reaction and hatred gathered at once about the Pure One, His family and His little band of faithful followers.  Always the persecutions begin when the Prophet of God states His Mission, which is ever for the physical, mental and spiritual uplift of all mankind.

In that age of frightening darkness and fanaticism in Persia, Bahá’u’lláh was imprisoned in the Black Pit of Ṭihrán.  He and many of His followers were stripped of their property and rights, and tortured.  He was exiled to Baghdád, Constantinople, Adrianople, and at last, as the supreme infliction, in 1868, to the Most Great Prison in ‘Akká.  This was historically a despicable and foul penal city, the most desolate in the world, located across the bay from Mt Carmel in the Holy Land.—See the Maps following the last page.

Voluntarily sharing these ordeals from early childhood, in order to be of service to His beloved Father, was the eldest son of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, meaning “Servant of the Glory”.  His confinement, lasting 40 years, was terminated in 1908 by the collapse of the Turkish Empire.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was set free when a more humanitarian regime was initiated by the Young Turks under Kamál Páshá.

Bahá’u’lláh, ascended in 1892 after appointing, in His Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as His authorized interpreter and Centre of His Covenant.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, through His great love, purity of heart, His unfailing wisdom and tireless effort, pro-

claimed the Word of God throughout Europe and America.  He passed on in 1921.

In ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament, He appointed Shoghi Effendi, His first grandson, to maintain the pristine purity of the Message, as the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith.  This divinely chosen young man, in collaboration with faithful Bahá’ís, spread the unity and integrity of the Faith throughout the world until his passing in 1957.  The Bahá’í Faith has, in the short time since its founding in 1844, become firmly established, among all races, in most of the countries, islands, and dependencies on the planet.

During the 40 years of cruel oppression unequalled in the annals of religious history, Bahá’u’lláh wrote the Message of God with His Own Pen as no Prophet before has ever done.  These Writings constitute as much as a library of books on all phases of life and are unprecedented in human history.

In these authoritative and authentic Writings are the New Principles necessary for unfolding the New World Order.

1.	The oneness of mankind.

2.	The independent investigation of truth.

3.	The foundation of all religions is one.

4.	Religion must be the cause of unity.

5.	Religion must be in accord with science and reason.

6.	Equality between men and women.

7.	Prejudice of all kinds must be forgotten.

8.	Universal peace.

9.	Universal education.

10.	A spiritual solution to the economic problem.

11.	One universal language.

12.	An international tribunal.

The Bahá’ís believe the Bahá’í Faith is the call to a new age of human maturity that will lead to an age of Justice, Unity, Hope and Peace as foretold by Jesus and all the Prophets before Him.  The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh are the breaths of the Holy Spirit that create men anew.  They are now building an advancing world civilization, a new creation and a nobler and loftier way of life for all mankind.

Bahá’u’lláh states it in this way:

This is the day whereon He Who is the Dayspring of Revelation hath come with clear tokens which none can number.  This is the day whereon every man endued with perception hath discovered the fragrance of

the breeze of the All-Merciful in the world of creation, and every man of insight hath hastened unto the living waters of the mercy of His Lord, the King of Kings.

Blessed are the people of Bahá!  God beareth Me witness!  They are the solace of the eye of creation.  Through them the universes have been adorned, and the Preserved Tablet embellished.  They are the ones who have sailed on the ark of complete independence, with their faces set towards the Dayspring of Beauty.…  Through their light the heavens have been adorned, and the faces of those that have drawn nigh unto Him made to shine.

Historic commentary

The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi, made this remarkable statement as to the significance of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.

The fundamental principle enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh … is that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive process, that all the great religions of the world are divine in origin, that their basic principles are in complete harmony, that their aims and purposes are one and the same, that their teachings are but facets of one truth, that their functions are complementary, that they differ only in the nonessential aspects of their doctrines, and that their missions represent successive stages in the spiritual evolution of human society.

…

… His mission is to proclaim that the ages of the infancy and of the childhood of the human race are past, that the convulsions associated with the present stage of its adolescence are slowly and painfully preparing it to attain the stage of manhood, and are heralding the approach of that Age of Ages when swords will be beaten into ploughshares, when the Kingdom promised by Jesus Christ will have been established, and the peace of the planet definitely and permanently ensured.  Nor does Bahá’u’lláh claim finality for His own Revelation, but rather stipulates that a fuller measure of the truth He has been commissioned by the Almighty to vouchsafe to humanity, at so critical a juncture in its fortunes, must needs be disclosed at future stages in the constant and limitless evolution of mankind.

The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh shows the depths of present-day darkness and predicts the new dawn to a humanity that would respond to the Divine Call.  However, above all, it forcefully reminds modern man that he is not alone in the universe, that his existence is not meaningless, that his destiny is significant, and that the way to God is once again open to him.

Connected
topical
references

26
Connected topical references

‘Abdu’l-Bahá	Beloved son of Bahá’u’lláh whose name means “Servant of the Glory”.  He was appointed the Centre of His Covenant and was “the occupant of an office without peer or equal in the entire field of religious history”.

‘Abu’l-‘Azíz	Sulṭán of Turkey, ruled from 1861–1876, and embodied the concentrated power vested in the Sultanate and Caliphate—“author of the calamities heaped upon Bahá’u’lláh”.

‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd	Successor of ‘Abu’l-‘Azíz, ruled 1876–1909, called “The Great Assassin”, responsible for the forty years of imprisonment of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and many other horrors.

Abraham	A Prophet born in Ur of Chaldea and founder of the Jewish nation.  Called “Friend of God”, “Father of a Multitude”, and an ancestor of Jesus, Moses, and Muḥammad and Bahá’u’lláh.

Adam	The Prophet of God, beginning a 6,000 year cycle that ended with the Báb.

Adamic cycle	The cycle of history beginning with Adam and of city building.

AH	Anno Hejirae, meaning the year of the Hejira, that dates the Islamic Dispensation from Muḥammad’s flight from Mecca to Medina in CE 622.

‘Akká	(Akko)  The ancient city of the Most Great Prison in Palestine in which Bahá’u’lláh was incarcerated.

‘Alí	‘Alí ibn Abí Ṭálib.  Rightful successor of Muḥammad, the first Imám, and husband of Fáṭimah, Muḥammad’s daughter.  The one Jesus referred to as the “Witness”; and called “the Lion of God”, “Guardian of God”, and the “Commander of the Faithful”.

Alláh-u-Abhá	“God is All Glorious”!  The word of greeting in the Bahá’í World.  It is one form of the Greatest Name.

Amír-Niẓám	Amír-Niẓám Mírzá Taqí Khán-Faráhání, Grand Vizier for the Sháh of Persia.  He was responsible for the martyrdom of the Báb.

Báb, The	Born in Shíráz, Írán, 20 October 1819, and was martyred on 9 July 1850, in Tabríz, Írán.  The word Báb (“Gate” or “Door”) expresses the Mission of the Báb as the “Gate of the Spirit”.  The Prophet-Herald of Bahá’u’lláh, Whom “posterity will recognize as standing at the confluence of two universal prophetic cycles, the Adamic … and the Bahá’í ….”  Spoken of as “The Primal Point”.  The Bábí Dispensation began on the 23 May CE 1844 or AH 1260, two hours and eleven minutes after sunset, and ended with the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh between the 21 April to 2 May 1863.

Baghdád	Capital of ‘Iráq, where Bahá’u’lláh declared His Mission to the world.  He called it the “City of God” and the “abode of peace”.

Bahá	“Splendour” or “Glory of God”.  The Greatest Name expressed also as Bahá’í word of reverence, greatness and blessing.  Name of the first Bahá’í month.

Bahá’í	“Light”, “glory of”, or pertaining to or follower of Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of the Bahá’í Cycle that began on the 21 March 1844 and is destined to last for 500,000 years.

Bahá’u’lláh	“The Glory of God”, “The Lord of Hosts”, “The Word of God”, “King of Kings”, spiritual titles of the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith Who was born in Ṭihrán, Írán, on 12 November 1817.  “The Supreme Manifestation of God and the Day Spring of His Most Divine Essence”.

Bahjí	“The Place of Delight” where the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh is located, the Most Great Place of Pilgrimage.

Bayán	The Book of Laws of the Báb “in which He fixes the date of the Promised Revelation”.  The Báb is called the “Primal Point”.

Black stone	al-Ḥajar al-Aswad (“the Black Stone”) of the Ka‘ba, the Holy Shrine of Muslim pilgrimage in Mecca, sacred to all Muslims.

Caliph	Khalífa.  “Self-styled Vicar of the Prophet of Islám”.  The Founders of the Caliphate “usurped the authority of the lawful successors” of Muḥammad.  The

Caliphate is merely the outward and visible Defender of the Faith while the Imám of the Shi’ites is the divinely ordained successor of the Prophet.  This constitutes the great division in Islám.

Fáṭima	The beautiful daughter of Muḥammad, wife of ‘Alí, ancestor of the twelve Imams and the Báb, considered to be one of the five perfect women of unsurpassed excellence.  At the heart of every religious system there is a perfect woman, such as, Sarah (Abraham), Ásíyih (Moses), Maryah (Buddha), The Virgin Mary (Jesus), Fáṭima (Muḥammad), Ṭáhirih (The Báb), and Bahá’íyyih Khánum (Bahá’u’lláh).

Ḥijáz	The territory of south western Arabia, also the Arabic language.

Hijra	The time of the escape of Muḥammad from Mecca to Medina, and the beginning of the Muslim era, in CE 622 (See AH), also spelled Hegira.

Imám	The “divinely ordained successor of the Prophet [Muḥammad], one endowed with all perfections and spiritual gifts, ….  Whose decision is absolute and final, Whose wisdom is superhuman, and Whose words are authoritative.”  The twelve Imams descending in line from Fáṭima, daughter of Muḥammad, provide the genealogical line from which the Báb was born.  Imám means “one who stands before, or who is followed”.

‘Iráq	The territory in south west Asia, of which Baghdád is the capital, the city on the outskirts of which Bahá’u’lláh made the Declaration of His Prophethood to the world.

‘Ishqábád	City in Russia, south-east of the Caspian Sea, where the first Bahá’í House of Worship was built, initiated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in 1902, and called the Mother Temple of the East.

Írán	Ancient and modern name for Persia, meaning excellent and the land of the Aryans.

Islám	This word identifies the religion founded by Muḥammad and the history, government, and culture of the people, means to be at perfect peace and “striving after righteousness.”  Also means Spirit of Islám.

Ishmael	Ismá‘íl.  The son of Abraham and Hagar, believed by Muslims to be the first-born offered in sacrifice—verified by Bahá’u’lláh.

Katurah	Keturah.  Third wife of Abraham, the command of God, from whom Bahá’u’lláh descended.

Kitáb-i-Aqdas	The Most Holy Book of Bahá’u’lláh, “the charter of His World Order, the chief repository of His laws”.  Revealed in 1873 in ‘Akká.

Kitáb-i-Íqán	“The Book of Certitude”, of unsurpassed pre-eminence among the Writings of the author of the Bahá’í Revelation.  Revealed in 1862, in fulfilment of the Báb’s prophecy that the Promised One would complete the unfinished Persian Bayán.

Kullu-Shay’	A period in the Bahá’í calendar comprising 19 vahids, each of 19 years.  We are living in the first Kullu-Shay’ that will end in 361 = 19 ´ 19 years.  The expression signifies “all things”.

Letters of the Living	The first 18 disciples of the Báb who recognized Him as the living result of meditation and prayer, together with the Báb (19th).

Maiden	This is the symbol of the Holy Spirit speaking, in the Bahá’í Dispensation—the Celestial Maiden; in the Zoroastrian—the symbol was the Sacred Fire; in the Mosaic—the Burning Bush; in the Christian—the Dove; in the Islamic—the angel Gabriel.

Mashriqu’l-Adhkár	“Dawning Place of the Mention of God”.  A Bahá’í House of Worship and surrounding educational and cultural institutions to be erected in many localities in the future.  “… symbol and precursor of a future civilization.”

Muḥammad	The Prophet of God to Whom God revealed the Qur’án, the Founder of Islám, the “Seal of the Prophets”.  Bahá’u’lláh states, “The designation ‘Seal of the Prophets’ fully revealeth its [this Day’s] high station.  The Prophetic Cycle hath, verily, ended.  The Eternal Truth has now come.”

Mullá	A priest, theologian or judge in Islám.

Mullá Ḥusayn	The first to proclaim his belief in the Báb, the Moon reflecting the Light of the Báb, the Bábu’l-Báb (the Gate of the Gate).

Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh	Notorious and fanatical ruler of Persia (r. 1848–1896).  Called by Bahá’u’lláh the “Prince of Oppressors”.

Navváb	The saintly wife of Bahá’u’lláh whose offspring include ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’íyyih Khánum (the Greatest Holy Leaf) and Mírzá Mihdí (the Purest Branch).  She was entitled by Bahá’u’lláh the “Most Exalted Leaf” and “His perpetual consort in all the worlds of God.”

Naw-Rúz	Bahá’í New Year’s Day on 20 or 21 March that is celebrated at the vernal equinox and closes the Nineteen-day Fast throughout the Bahá’í World.

Párán	A mountain (Jabal Párán).  Muslim and Arabic traditions hold that the wilderness of Párán is, broadly speaking, the Ḥijáz.  Bible references to Mt Párán refer to the Islamic Dispensation.

Qá’im	The promised Qá’im (“He Who Arises”) in the Qur’án refers to the Báb.

Qibla	A cube-like stone building (Ka‘ba) at Mecca, containing the Sacred Black Stone.  The point of adoration toward which the faithful turn to in prayer, such as Mecca in the Muslim World, and the Most Holy Tomb of Bahá’u’lláh, at Bahjí, in Israel, is the “Qiblih of the Bahá’í World”.  (also Kabih).

Qur’án	The Sacred Book of Muḥammad that the Muslims are often required to memorize.

Riḍván	“Paradise”, “heaven”, and “garden”.  A garden in Baghdád where Bahá’u’lláh made the Declaration of His Mission in 1863, during a

twelve day period, beginning on 21 April, and celebrated annually.  Also a garden east of ‘Akká, Israel, where Bahá’u’lláh stayed at times.

Sarah	First wife and maternal aunt of Abraham, ancestor of Isaac, Jacob, Moses, David and Jesus.

Sháh	King or ruler especially of Persia, mightiest official of Shí‘ah Islám.

Sháh-Bahrám	The Promised One of the Zoroastrians, fulfilled by the coming of Bahá’u’lláh.

Shoghi Effendi	Shawqí Afandí Rabbání.  Eldest grandson of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, divinely appointed Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, “Sign of God upon the earth”.  He was the authorized interpreter of the Bahá’í Sacred Writings.

Shí‘a or Shí‘ih	The division of Islám that recognizes the divine right of successorship of the twelve Imams through the hereditary line of ‘Alí.

Sunní or Sunnite	The division of Islám that does not recognize the Divine Right of Successorship, but believes the leaders or Caliphs must be elected from a member of the Prophet’s tribe.

Ṭáhirih	One of the eighteen Letters of the Living of the Báb, and the only woman disciple of any of the Prophets of God; martyred in 1852.

Ṭihrán	Birthplace of Bahá’u’lláh and Capital of Persia.  Scene of many horrible Bábí and Bahá’í martyrdoms.

UHJ	Universal House of Justice.  The universal governmental authority to which all the nations will eventually turn.

‘Ulamá	Singular ‘Alím.  Learned doctors of Muslim law.

Wáḥid or Váḥid	A period of 19 years, each year composed of 19 months of 19 days, in the Bábí calendar.  Wáḥid (“unity”) symbolizes the unity of God.

Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá	“O my Lord, the Most Glorious!”  Supplication to God.  Another expression of the Greatest Name.

Yazdigird III	Ancestor of Bahá’u’lláh and the last King of the Sásán or Sasanid Dynasty.

Zoroaster	Prophet of God in ancient Írán.  Founder of Zoroastrianism at a later era than that of Moses in Egypt.  Ancestor of Bahá’u’lláh.

27
Index summary of the Book of Revelation for study

‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes regarding this book; “Consequently, be engaged in perusing St John’s Revelation; all these signs are spoken of in that vision.  Thou shalt soon behold (things) still greater than this.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá also said that these signs are not to be taken literally, but with symbolic and spiritual meanings.  These are the mysteries of God and have deep outer and inner significances.  As this is the Day of Fulfilment of the signs revealed by Jesus, fulfilled in the coming of Bahá’u’lláh, it is exceedingly important to study carefully the new Keys to the Book of Revelation, and thus “… attain eternal life and that your hearts may be attracted to the Kingdom of God.”

To facilitate your study, a brief Index summary of the twenty-two chapters of the Book of Revelation follows.  Pray God that the spiritual truths and symbolic warnings enshrined in His Divine Revelation may enable the reader to “… gaze on Thy Beauty and observe whatsoever is in Thy Book.”

I:  The voice of God—one like unto the Son of Man

The Book of Revelation by Jesus Christ, through John, is divided into three general sections; the Prologue, the Revelation in Seven Visions, and the Epilogue.  It was revealed by Jesus in ad 96 “to show the things which must shortly come to pass.”—while John was a prisoner on the Isle of Patmos.

John is commanded to write what he sees and hears and send it to the seven churches that are in Asia.  In the visions, the churches symbolize the seven existing divinely revealed Religions:  Sabeanism, Hinduism, Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, Christianity and Islám.  These religions are still extant in the old cycle, and in the new cycle are the 8th and 9th:  The Bábí Faith and The Bahá’í Faith.

The Revelators of these Religions in their chronological order are:

1.	Unknown, possibly Enoch according to some Sabeans.

2.	Krishna, appeared in India between 2,000 and 3,000 BCE.

3.	Moses, advent was in Egypt about 1330 BCE.

4.	Zoroaster, appeared in Írán between 1000 and 500 BCE.

5.	Buddha, was born in India about 500 BCE.

6.	Jesus Christ, the birth of Jesus was between 4 BCE and CE 1.

7.	Muḥammad, was born in Arabia about CE 570.

8.	The Báb, born in Shíráz, Persia, 20 October 1819.

9.	Bahá’u’lláh, born in Ṭihrán, Írán, 12 November 1817.

The Declaration of the Mission of Bahá’u’lláh was in Baghdád, ‘Iráq, in April 1863.

Jesus Christ, in the first chapter, reveals that “one like unto the Son of Man” (Bahá’u’lláh) “stands amid the seven golden candlesticks” (the seven Religions).  He holds the “seven-stars in His right hand” upraising and uniting their Truth and Light into the New Cycle.

II:  The vision brightens—message to the four churches

The Messages are addressed to the first four of the seven churches and each one is divided into seven parts.

1.	The Salutation to the church stating who is speaking.

2.	Commendation of the church for the good it has done.

3.	Condemnation of the church for the evil that it has permitted.

4.	Punishment for that for which it is condemned.

5.	Reward for that for which it is commended.

6.	A Promise is given to each church.  Study the Promises as they are the most important part of the message and relate to this Day.

7.	Refrain near the end of each message or little poem, is “He that hath an ear let him hear what the spirit saith unto the churches.”

III:  The new name—message to Christianity

Philadelphia or Christianity is the church of Brotherly Love.  Though it is commended for many great and excellent achievements, it is condemned “for thou hast a little strength.”  The more a thing is divided, the less its strength.  “In union there is strength.”  The last church is condemned for being “lukewarm, neither hot nor cold.”  Study the history of each church in relation to the Commendation, the Condemnation, the One Who is speaking and the Promise when it repents.

IV:  The glorious throne—the shining rainbow

The Throne, the station of Manifestation and the One sitting upon it are described and the twenty-four elders, the disciples of the Promised One and the four creatures who proclaim Him, are pictured.  This chapter is full of important significances.

V:  The mighty book sealed with seven seals

The little Book sealed with the seven seals, is the Message of God revealed by all the seven Revelators.  It is the Word of God, not what man has said about them and built into conflicting creeds and theologies.  Jesus Christ revealed that the “Lion of Judah, the Root of David”, Who is the Promised One of this Day, had the sealed book and gave it with His right hand to the Lamb ordained for slaughter from the foundation of the world.  Jesus was the First Lamb and the Báb is the Second Lamb to Whom Bahá’u’lláh gave the book to open.  Multitudes sang “Worthy is the Lamb to take the book and open the seal thereof.”  Before this time, no one on earth nor in heaven had been able to take the book nor open the seals thereof.

VI:  The lamb—opening the seven seals

Six of the seals are opened by the second Lamb, the Báb, and historical events in the unrolling scroll of history are established.  However, the seventh seal remains unopened until after a special, soul-stirring event occurs.  This spirit-searching event relates to every soul upon this planet.

VII:  Seal of the living God—sealing 144,000 of the servants

The four angels are commanded to hold back the winds that were to destroy everything upon the earth until the servants are sealed in their foreheads.  One hundred and forty-four thousand of those who had gained the light of the “unified or nine consciousness”, in recognition of the Divine station and Mission of all the Revelators of God, were symbolically sealed.  This is a very important chapter and should be carefully studied, that a gleam of this light may brighten each soul, that he may receive the seal of the “living God”.

VIII:  The seven trumpets—the twelve Imams

The seventh seal is opened and seven angels are each given a trumpet to sound.  Four angels blow the trumpet of awesome warning.  They are the first four holy Imams.  However, the people heed them not and great persecutions follow.  The third part of the waters, the World of God that giveth life, “became wormwood, and many died of the waters because they were made bitter.”  They drank not of the pure truth but partook of the twisted teachings, and woe followed.  Jesus, unrolling the great scroll of history, pictures the distress of those days when man follows the ideas of human origin rather than the untarnished Word of God.

IX:  The seven angels—locusts like scorpions

Three other holy Imams sounded the trumpet of warning.  Hordes of people like locusts are given the power of scorpions to persecute the innocent and defenceless people by means of the “beast”.  The Banú-Umayyah, the ecclesiastical hierarchy of Islám, destroyed the divine laws of Muḥammad, and substituted human rituals and forms, during one hundred and fifty years of the most terrible martyrdoms in all Islamic history.  Jesus foretold that this would occur before the dawn of the New Day.  Study Islamic history and teachings to understand that the predictions of Jesus were fulfilled.

X.  The little book opened—a new dimension of time

The mighty angel stands with the book open in His right hand, the hand of power and proclaims “there shall be time no more”.  This is a cyclic change, with a new calendar, a new rhythm.  It was on 23 May 1844 that the Báb raised His hand to heaven and made the astounding Declaration that the cycle had ended, a New Day had dawned and that He was the Prophet-Herald of One greater than Himself, Who would be made manifest and Who would be the Originator of a New Universal Cycle with a new direction and a new rhythm.

Xl.  The two witnesses—four and twenty elders

Power is given unto the two witnesses who will prophecy for one thousand two hundred and three score years, 1260 years, clothed in sackcloth.  This is the complete period of the Islamic Dispensation.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that the two witnesses are Muḥammad, the Messenger of God and ‘Alí, son of Ṭálib.  Muḥammad was the “sun” of His Dispensation and ‘Alí was the “moon” reflecting His light, being the first to proclaim the station of Muḥammad.  These two witnesses brought the Law of God to the wild tribes of Arabia in such a way that they reached the highest degree of knowledge known in those days and their fame became world wide.  The beast was the Banú-Umayyah who destroyed the love of God in the spiritual life of the people and left only a lifeless form.  Jesus foretold the coming of the Divine Morning Star, the Báb, after 1260 years, Who would bring Light into all the darkness and deadness.  The appalling martyrdom of the Báb is pictured.

XII:  The woman—the great red dragon

A woman appeared with the sun and moon under her feet and twelve stars in her crown, and “she brought forth a man child”.  The woman is the Law of God, revealed by Muḥammad, which fell into greatest difficulties until, through Fáṭima, the daughter of Muḥammad, and the twelve Imams, the Báb appeared, born of the lineal line of Muḥammad.  He was born of the Law of Muḥammad, nurtured by that Law, and became manifest on earth 1,260 years after that law was promulgated, thus fulfilling the prophecies of both Jesus and Muḥammad, regarding the time, times and half a time.  The great red dragon is the ecclesiastical hierarchy of the Banú-Umayyah, that persecuted the Law of God as represented by the Woman and her seed.  This continued with distress, fear and horror.

XIII:  Two strange beasts—the letters of the living

The civilization of Islám rose to a great height, the envy of the known world, but the great red dragon gave his power to the beast who was like a leopard, and to the beast who looked like a lamb.  These held sway over ten countries of the world, ruling them by ecclesiastical power without the Law of God.  Mu’ávíyyah was, the sixth Caliph and first of the corrupt line of Umayyad rulers, who seized the Caliphate from Ḥasan, the son of Muḥammad, by force and deception, and appointed his dissolute, evil-minded, treacherous son, Yazíd to succeed him.  It was Mu’ávíyyah who desecrated the Shrine of the birth-place of Muḥammad in Mecca and ordered the sacking of Medina, the burial place of the Prophet in ad 666 and tried to make Damascus the Kaaba (Ka‘ba) of the Moslem world.  “The number of the beast was 666!”

XIV:  The angels and the sickles—the time of harvest

The Lamb stood on Mt Zion with the one hundred and forty–four thousand who had the Father’s name in their foreheads.  Four angels prepare their sickles to reap for the harvest is ripe.  The “new song” is the new Revelation

that no one can sing save those who know it.  The angels mentioned here, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, are the spiritual and merciful powers sent to warn and guide mankind.  Jesus paints a picture of the harvest time of the latter days, when the angles would thrust in their sickles to reap.  The sixth angel is the Báb and the seventh Angel on the Throne is Bahá’u’lláh.

XV:  The sea of glass mingled with fire—seven golden vials

The angels are given vials containing the seven last plagues.  These are the symbols of the punishments that come to us when we disobey, individually, collectively or universally the Laws of God.  Being “golden vials” they signify the spiritual nature of the “plagues to cleanse the world”.  The “Sea of glass” is the sea of Truth revealed in this Day.  Each Prophet brought Truth according to the capacity of mankind, some drops, some small streams.  Jesus is a “River”.  In this Day a “Sea” or “Ocean” of Truth upon which stand those who have been purified with the fire of tests and have the Father’s name in their foreheads.

XVI:  Armageddon—the great earthquake

The seven angels poured out their vials upon the earth, the sea, the fountains of waters, upon the sun, the seat of the beast, the Euphrates and then the Battle of Armageddon took place from which no one could escape.  Humanity and the earth were cleansed, by staggering tests, fire, floods, storms, and the great earthquake.  Then the seventh angel poured out his vial in the air, and “great Babylon came in remembrance before God”.

XVII:  The siren—Babylon the great

The woman in purple and scarlet—the beautiful siren, deceived the people, the rulers of the nations and the inhabitants thereof, even those before the altars.  On her forehead is her name written “MYSTERY BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.”  The image of the beast continues.  Bahá’u’lláh warned a century ago, “the signs of impending convulsions and chaos can now be discerned, inasmuch as the prevailing order is lamentably defective.”  “The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great, this new World Order.”

XVIII:  No more at all—the earth shall shine with his glory

This is a shocking picture of the destruction of the great Babylon and of the weeping and wailing of the merchants.  Evolution alone is not enough to bring about the great changes that must come to the world to prepare for the magnificent and glorious world ahead.  It can be brought about only by means of sudden, violent, electrifying forces.  Jesus pictures this as a mighty angel casting a great mill-stone with violence into the sea, and with a great splash, it shall be found no more at all.  Study well this lesson.

XIX:  The light of the world—king of kings—lord of lords

This chapter is a prophetic climactic peak to which the entire Bible mounts; in fact the prophecies of all the Bibles of the Religious Systems of the world find fulfilment.  The marriage supper of the Lamb is stirringly told, and blessed is he that is called to the marriage supper of the Lamb.  The most soul-thrilling picture is the heavens opening and a white horse riding forth and He that sat on him was clothed in the white garments of “spiritual life force”.  On his head are many crowns of divine authority.  His eyes are penetrating and purifying fire and His name is called The Word of God, KING OF KINGS and LORD OF LORDS!  And armies follow Him on white horses, clothed in white linen—white and clean.  Millions today are following the WORD OF GOD, KING OF KINGS, the LAW OF GOD, and are building the foundation for the NEW JERUSALEM IN THE GOLDEN AGE.

He is the Messiah the Christians are awaiting.  Moses Maimonedes, founder of the Jewish law that Jews have strictly observed throughout the centuries, foretold the coming of two Messiahs, the LORD OF HOSTS and ELIJAH, whom they call MESSIAH ben JOSEPH and MESSIAH BEN DAVID, one heralding the other.  What a Day of fulfilment in which to be living and serving His Glory!  Study it well!

XX:  A new dimension—the thousand years

Satan is bound for a thousand years and the dead lived not until the thousand years were finished.  Satan is called by several names, the dragon, the old serpent, the devil, the deceiver, and the evil spirit.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the cycle of Bahá’u’lláh would last for 500,000 years and His Dispensation for 1,000 years, that His Cause is very great, its powers are growing, its signs are dazzling, that it shall continue in elevation, exultation, growth, promulgation and promotion until it shall reach the apex of its glory in 1,000 years.  No one of major nor minor station of Prophethood will appear in less than a thousand years and Satan shall be buried in oblivion.  The Book of Life is opened and each soul is judged by the record written therein of the words, thoughts, deeds and motives of each human soul.  Bahá’u’lláh writes “Think not the deeds ye have committed have been blotted from My sight.  By My Beauty!  All your doings hath My Pen graven with open characters upon tablets of chrysolite.”  Examine carefully thy record for pointless activities.

XXI:  The city of God—the twelve foundation stones

The magnificent city with its streets of gold and the twelve stately foundation stones upon which the majestic edifice of peace, justice, security and unity shall be erected, is described.  Nothing that maketh an abomination or a lie, nor those that are not written in the Book of Life can enter the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  The Universal House of Justice will establish the Justice needed for the New World Order.  Praise and thanksgiving for the divine instrument to maintain the World Order for all peoples!

XXII:  Power of the holy spirit—new heaven and new earth

The pure water, the river of life, clear as crystal proceeding out of the Throne and the Lamb is the new Revelation with the laws, principles and ocean of Truth for the New Age, poured forth through the Pen of Bahá’u’lláh.  The Power of the Holy Spirit hath poured forth in this Day the radiating Light of Revelation in meridian splendour.  The Holy Spirit spoke through the Blessed Jesus Christ for three years of oral Teachings 2,000 years ago; and through the dictated Message of the Messenger of God, Muḥammad, from CE 622 to 632.  So, in this Day, the Spirit has spoken through the shining Báb for six years, during which He revealed 500,000 written verses; and through the Most Glorious One, Bahá’u’lláh, Who during 40 years, revealed an entire library of His recorded, creative Revelation.  After Him, the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi were ordained, in this Day, to keep the Word of God pure and untarnished in the midst of human suppositions.

All praise be to God for all the years since 1844 of unveiled Light given for the guidance of mankind in this great, new cycle!

At long last man has entered “the Seventh Day, the Creational Day of God”.  This is the Day in which Peace and Progress shall be established in the “New Heaven and the New Earth”.  Jesus said that it is the Great Day of Decision, “he that is unjust, let him be unjust still; he that is filthy, let him be filthy still; and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still; and he that is holy, let him be holy still.” [v. 11]  Jesus Christ was born of the Holy Spirit.  He was raised up by the Holy Spirit.  He was guided by the Holy Spirit.  He is the embodiment of the Holy Spirit.  He is the Quickening Spirit that brings life to human souls.  The same Quickening Holy Spirit has returned in Bahá’u’lláh to bring life, not only to an ailing humanity and a tottering civilization but to bring forth a New World Order, a new Rhythm and a new Creation!  Let us explore it carefully, transform our attitudes and reflect in our lives the GLORY OF GOD and help to bring the KINGDOM OF GOD UPON THE EARTH!

What can I do?  here am I!  O lord!
Send me!
Send me!

Important dates relating
directly and indirectly to the Holy Land

Bibliography

Abraham Davenport, poem by John Greenleaf Whittier.

Advent of Divine Justice, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1956.

American Journal of Sciences and Arts, Dr Humphreys of St Johns College.  Vol. XXV.  1834.

American Journal of Sciences and Arts, Denison Olmstead, Prof. of Astronomy at Yale.  Vol. XXV.

Astronomy for Everybody, Prof. Simon Newcomb.

Bahá’í Administration, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1928.

Bahá’í News (1940–1963), Bahá’í Publishing Comm.

Bahá’í Prayers, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1959–1963.

Bahá’í World Faith, Bahá’í Publishing Comm. 1943.

Bahá’í World (Vols I–XII), Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1926–1964.

Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, Dr J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1950.

Christ and Bahá’u’lláh, George Townshend, George Ronald, London, 1959.

The Chosen Highway, Lady Blomfield, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London, 1940.

City of the King, poem by Shahnaz Waite.  (Gift to author)

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Comm., N.Y.  1934.

The Dawn-Breakers, Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam, Bahá’í Publishing Comm., NY.  1933.

Do’a:  The Call to Prayer, Ruth J. Moffett, Carl Gorr Printing Co.  1933.

Earthquakes, Hobbs, W. H., D. Appleton and Co.  1907.

Encyclopaedia Britannica, N.Y.  1954.

English Journal of Science, Dr Thomas Milner.

Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1941.

Fifty-Three Years in Syria, by Dr H. H. Jessup.

Foundations of World Unity, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1936.

The Gallery of Nature, Dr Thomas Milner, Prof. of Astronomy at Yale University.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  NY.  1935.

God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Comm., Wilmette, 1944.

The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette.  1952.

Historical Account of Earthquakes, History and Philosophy of Earthquakes, Dr Thomas Hunter, Geologist.

History of the Arabs, Philip K. Hitti, MacMillan, 1940.

History of the Islámic Peoples, Carl Brockelmann, Putnam, 1947.

Histories of the World, Carlyle, Ridpath, Toynbee, Wells, et al.  1898–1963.

Holy Bible, King James Version.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Trust of the UK.  1993.

Letters from Shoghi Effendi to the Author, Haifa, Israel.  1921–1957.

Library of Original Sources, Editor-in-Chief, Oliver J. Thatcher.  Vols I–X (Editors edition), No. 19.

Department of History, University of Chicago, Univ. Research Extension.  (1907).  Vols 1–10.

The Life of Voltaire, Dr James W. Parton, Houghton, Miffin & Co.  1881.

Mahomet and His Successors, Washington Irving.

Main Current of Modern Thought (magazine), Julious Stulman.  1957, 1958 and 1965.

Memories of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, by Prof. A. M. Hollis.  1885.

Modern Science, Mr David Dietz, Western Reserve University.  1946.

New York Herald Tribune, Rafaele Bendandi, Seismologist.

Our Day in the Light of Prophecy, W. A. Spicer.  (London, 1917)

Paris Talks, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London, 1979.

Popular Astronomy, Dr Camille Flammarion, Astronomer Magazine, France, 1880.

The Promised Day is Come, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1961.

Prayers and Meditations of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1948.

Promulgation of Universal Peace, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1943.

The Qur’an, Sale, London, F. Warne & Co.

The Secret of Divine Civilization, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1990.

Six Lessons on Islám, by Marzieh Gail, Bahá’í Publishing Trust.

Some Answered Questions, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  2nd edn.  Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa.  2014.

Song Celestial, Dr Howard Colby Ives.  The London Press, Chicago.  1938.

Sources of Christianity, Khwaja Hakamaluddin

The Spirit of Islám, Syad Ameer Ali, Christopheres, W. H. Allen, London.  1935.

Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Vols II–III, Bahá’í Publishing Society, Chicago, USA.  1919–1930.

A Traveller’s Narrative, Prof. Edward G. Browne, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1930.

The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  1921.

The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Comm.  1944.

Maps of the travels of the Báb
and the exiles of Bahá’u’lláh

Travels of the Báb

Exiles of Bahá’u’lláh