THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-01-06

To the friends gathered at the latin American y ou

dear f riends,

As the cause of god advances resistlessly along the path traced out for it

by its divine founder, each stage of the process opens up to a new genera-

tion of bahá’í youth challenges unique to the historical moment. building

on the accomplishments of the generations before, youth must devise ways

to take advantage of the opportunities presented to them. A discourse in consonance with the requirements of the time has to be refined, and activi-

ties aimed at transforming society have to be pursued with vigor.

To accomplish such tasks during the brief span of time afforded youth

requires resolve, spiritual discipline, energy, reliance on the power of divine

assistance, and constant immersion in the word of god. These efforts, which

constitute an integral part of the growth processes of the bahá’í community

itself, nevertheless possess characteristics distinctly their own. in recent years,

and in many parts of the world, bahá’í youth have referred to their collective

endeavors as a “youth movement,” a reminder that the energy being gener-ated will not only bring new recruits from among their peers, but will move an entire generation one step closer to the world order of bahá’u’lláh.

over the next few days you will be contemplating the special opportunities

which the hand of providence has laid before you. An essential component

of any strategy you devise is training. in all your countries, this question is

being enthusiastically addressed as institutes learn to operate with increasing effectiveness. you yourselves are participating, as students and as teachers, in

building capacity in your communities to train thousands and thousands of believers, many of whom will be young people. with this vision in mind, you

should devise actions, characteristic of your youth movement, in which your

swelling numbers will engage. how will you teach the cause and advance

the process of entry by troops? how will you contribute to the establishment

of a distinctly bahá’í life? And how will you accelerate the transformation of

latin American society to achieve its high destiny? As you contemplate these questions, be assured that our prayers will surround you.

256.2

256.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

606257

Acceptance of Decisions

Made by the Local Spiritual Assembly

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]