THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1992-03-01

To an individual b ahá’í

dear b ahá’í f riend,

your letter of 22 january 1992 has been received by the universal house

of justice, and we are to provide the following response.

The house of justice was sorry to learn from your letter that your son has

recently informed you that he is a homosexual. it commends your attitude

of compassion and your efforts to both maintain harmony in your marriage

and to keep open the lines of communication to your son. in answer to

your specific question, there is little in the bahá’í writings that specifically

points to the causes of homosexuality itself, but as the house of justice

has emphasized in past letters to individuals who sought its advice on this question, there is much that concerns the nature of man, his inner life and growth, and the way to a true bahá’í life. in a letter to an individual believer,

the beloved g uardian, Shoghi e ffendi, gave the following advice:

No matter how devoted and fine the love may be between people

of the same sex, to let it find expression in sexual acts is wrong. To say

that it is ideal is no excuse. immorality of every sort is really forbidden

by bahá’u’lláh, and homosexual relationships he looks upon as such,

besides being against nature.

To be afflicted this way is a great burden to a conscientious soul. but

through the advice and help of doctors, through a strong and deter-

mined effort, and through prayer, a soul can overcome this handicap.

god judges each soul on its own merits. The guardian cannot tell

you what the attitude of god would be towards a person who lives a

good life in most ways, but not in this way. All he can tell you is that it is forbidden by bahá’u’lláh, and that one so afflicted should struggle

and struggle again to overcome it. we must be hopeful of god’s mercy

but not impose upon it.

124-1

124-1. lg, no. 1223.124.1

124.2

124.2a

124.2b

124.2c

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

258 . . . in general, the house of justice urges you to avoid dwelling on

thoughts of guilt which you, as a parent, would likely experience, and to

continue to demonstrate love and acceptance toward your son; such an

attitude, however, should imply no agreement with his attitude towards homosexuality. you will, no doubt, want to urge your son to seek appropri-

ate counseling; in this connection you are encouraged to seek the assistance

of your National Spiritual Assembly, which has often dealt with such cases,

and can most probably assist you in identifying individuals who are experi-enced in this area and whose views on homosexuality are basically compat-ible with those of the b ahá’í f aith.

regarding your husband’s refusal to permit your son to return home,

it is understandable that a parent might feel deeply confused and angry when confronted with such questions which go to the very root of what it

means to be a human being and what it means to educate and raise a child.

prayer, faith in god, loving consultation and patience will aid you to deal

with this difficulty. As for your family members who are causing you further anguish, it is perhaps also to be expected that reactions to such inherently

perplexing questions, nowadays compounded more than ever by the general

disarray in moral thinking, tend toward extremes, either of resignation or condemnation. you are obliged to hew your own course, as illuminated by

the teachings of bahá’u’lláh. whether you can persuade anyone of the cor-

rectness of your responses, which seek to preserve your relationship to your son and also to avoid alienating your husband, is secondary; the main thing is that you strive to deal with these difficulties in a manner consistent with

the spirit of the cause of god, which is neither harsh and maledictory nor

excessively liberal and forbearing.

be assured of the ardent prayers of the house of justice at the Sacred

Threshold that your marriage may be fortified and that your son may be divinely guided and assisted to overcome the problem which has beset him.

it will also offer prayers that you may have the strength and wisdom to deal

with this problem.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat124.3

124.4

124.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

259125

Commemoration of Certain Bahá’í Holy Days

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]