The Divine Art of , Living
COMPILED
by
MABEL HYDE PAINE
BAHA'i PUBLISHING COMMITTEE
WILMETTE, ILLINOIS, U,S.A,

Copyright, 1944 by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States
and Canada.
f>.pproved by the Reviewing Committee of the
National Spiritual Assembly.
PRINTED IN U. S. A.
PREFACE
Chapter
CONTENTS
1. Trust in God
2. Entrance into the Kingdom
3. Advancing in the Immortal Realm
4. Prayer and Meditation
5. The Power of the Holy Spirit
6. Faith and Certitude
7. Healing and Health
8. Practical Applications of the
Spiritual Life .
9. Detachment and Sacrifice
10. Rectitude and Purity .
11. Obedience and Humility .
12 . Tests and Afflictions
13. Learning to Know and Love God
14. Love and Unity
15. Eternal Life
REFERENCE NOTES
Page

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
A Compilation
PREFACE
"Thy Word is a light unto my path and a lamp unto my feet,"
sang the Psalmist. Jesus Christ spoke of Himself and His Teach-
ings as "The Way, the Truth, and the Life," and said: "The words
that I speak ... are spirit and life." Buddha taught His followers
the "Eightfold Path." The great preoccupation of all the Mes-
. sengers of God has been to guide mankind along the pathway to
real life and truth. For this They have lived and suffered and
given mankind words of Divine counsel and inspiration. The
Guardian of the Baha'i Faith, Shoghi Effendi, assures us that
progress along the line of spiritual development is endless.
'Abdu'l-Baha called the "Highway of the Kingdom," "a straight
and far-stretching path." It is a glorious path to follow.
Such thoughts as these led the editors of World Order, the
Baha'i Magazine, to arr~nge for a compilation on the "Djvine Art
of Living" to appear in successive numbers of that magazine from
April, 1940 through September, 1941. This book is a revision of
the compilation which appeared in the magazine. The limitations
of space in the magazine had tended to make the treatment
deficient in some ways, and it was felt that a revision would better
fulfill the original purpose.
The title is borrowed from a previous compilation having the
same aim and same general character, which was made by Mrs.
Mary M. Rabb. Mrs. Rabb's book was much loved by many
readers. She has kindly consented to the use of her title in this
compilation. This is, however, a completely new compilation.
The sources of the compilation are, mainly, the written words

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
of Baha'u'llah, the Founder of the Baha'i Faith, and the written
words and public addresses of 'Abdu'l-Baha, the Interpreter of
that Faith. In a few instances, where the source seemed reliable,
reported words of 'Abdu'l-Baha have been used. There are also
a few selections from the New Testament. As Baha'u'llah and
'Abdu'l-Baha both presented the Baha'i Teachings to the Western
world as the carrying on and fulfillment of the Message of Christ
it seemed fitting to include some passages from the New Testa-
ment, especially as this book will be read by those who have
grown up in the Christian Faith.
The chapters of the book treat of outstanding qualities which
characterize holy living, goals along the shining pathway of the
Kingdom. The words of Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha on this a11-
absorbing subject fill many volumes. It is hoped that these chap-
ters of selections will stimulate the reader to search these scrip-
tun's himself and thus drink deep of the very Water of Life.
M. H. PAINE
Urbilllil, Illinois

I
i
CHAPTER ONE
TRUST IN GOD
HE not fi ve sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of
them is forgotten before God?
But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear
not, therefore; ye are of more value than many sparrows.
o trust in God! for His bounty is everlasting, and in His
blessings for they are superb. 0 put your faith in the Almighty,
for He faileth not and His goodness endureth forever! His Sun
giveth light continually, and the clouds of His mercy are full of
the waters of compassion with which He waters the hearts of all
who trust in Him. His refreshing breeze ever carries healing in its
wings to the par~hed souls of men.
Do not look at thy weakness; nay look at the power of thy
Lord, which hath surrounded all regions.
.
Trust in the assistance of thy Master, and ask what thou
wishest of the gifts of Thy Lord, the Unconstrained.
If thou art seeking after spiritual tranquillity, turn thy face at
all times toward the Kingdom of Abba * ... Let not thy hands
tremble nor thy heart he disturbed, but rather be confident and
firm in the love of thy Lord, the Merciful, the Clement.
5,6
Trust in God, and be unmoved by either praise or false accusa-
tions ... depend entirely on God.
In all thine affairs put thy reliance in God, and commit them
unto Him.
.. Abhi, literally, The Most Glorious One, i.e. God.
,

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
The source of all good is trust in God, submission unto His
command, and contentment in His holy will and pleasure.
TRUST WHEN IN DIFFICULTIES
Today, humanity is bowed down with trouble, sorrow and
grief, no one escapes; the world is wet with tears; but, thank
God, the remedy is at our doors. Let us turn our hearts away
from the world of matter and live in the spiritual world. It alone
can give us freedom. If we are hemmed in by difficulties we have
only to call upon God, and by His great mercy we shall be helped.
If sorrow and adversity visit us, let us turn our faces to the
Kingdom and heavenly consolation will be outpoured.
If we are sick and in distress let us implore God's healing, and
He will answer our prayer.
When our thoughts are filled with the bitterness of this world,
let us turn our eyes to the sweetness of God's compassion and He
will send us heavenly calm! If we are imprisoned in the material
world, our spirit can soar into the Heavens and we shall be free
indeed!
When our days are drawing to a close let us think of the eternal
worlds, and we shaII be full of joy!
Be not in despair, but rather smile by the mercy of thy Lord;
and be not sorrowful when meeting with worldly difficulties and
depressions, for they pass away-and th~ne shall be immortality
during ages and centuries, times and cycles.
And when I am anxious ... I anticipate the manifestations
of Thy bounties from all sides!
But thou must submit to and rely upon God under all condi-
tions and He will bestow upon thee that which is conducive to
thy well-being. Verily He is merciful and compassionate! For
how many an affair was involved in difficulty and then was
straightened, and how many a problem was solved by the permis-
sion of God.
I
~.
TRUST IN GOD
As to the subject of babes and infants and weak ones who are
afflicted by the hands of oppressors: this contains great wisdom
and this subject is of paramount importance. In brief,-for those
souls there is a recompense in another world and many details
are connected with this matter. For those souls that suffering is
the greatest mercy of God. Verily that mercy of the Lord is far
better and preferable to all the comfort of this world and the
growth and developme!1t of .this place of mortality.
TRUST GOD RATHER THAN SELF
These events (such as the Titanic disaster) have deeper reasons.
Their object is to teach man certain lessons. We are living in a
day of reliance upon material conditions. Men imagine that the
great size and strength of a ship, perfection of machinery or the
skill of a navigator will insure safety, but these disasters some-
times take place that men may know that God is the real pro-
tector. If it be the will of God to protect man, a little ship may .
escape destruction whereas the greatest and most perfectly con-
structed vessel with the best and most skilful navigator may not
survive a danger such as was present on the ocean. The purpose
is that the people of the world may turn to God, the one Pro-
tector; that human souls may rely upon His preservation and
know that He is the real safety. These events happen in order
that man's faith may be increased and strengthened. Therefore,
although we feel sad and disheartened, we must supplicate God to
turn our hearts to the Kingdom, and pray for these departed souls
with faith in His infinite mercy, so that although they have been
deprived of this earthly life they may enjoy a new existence in
the supreme mansions of 'the heavenly Father.
Let no one imagine that these words imply that man should
not be thorough and careful in his undertakings. God has endowed
man with intelligence so that he may safeguard and protect him-
self. Therefore he must provide and surround himself with all
that scientific skill can produce. He must be deliberate, thought-
ful and thorough in his purposes, build the best ship and provide
the most experienced captain, yet withal let him rely upon God
and consider God as the one keeper.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
GRACE, FORGIVENESS AND MERCY OF GOD
Thou art He, 0 my God, through Whose names the sick are
healed and the ailing are restored, and the thirsty are given drink,
and the sore-vexed are tranquillized, and the wayward are guided,
and the abased are exalted, and the poor are enriched, and the
ignorant are enlightened, and the gloomy are illumined, and the
sorrowful are cheered, and the chilled are warmed, and the down-
trodden are raised up. Through Thy Name, 0 my God, all cre-
ated things were stirred up, and the heavens were spread, and the
earth was established, and the clouds were raised and made to
rain upon the earth. This, verily, is a token of Thy grace unto
all Thy creatures.
Every existence, whether seen or unseen, 0 my Lord, testifieth
that Thy mercy hath surpassed all created things, and Thy lov-
ing-kindness embraced the entire creation.
Thou are the All-Bountiful, the overflowing showers of whose
mercy have rained down upon high and low alike, and the splen-
dors of whose grace have been shed over both the obedient and
the rebellious.
Wash away, then, my sins, 0 my God, by Thy grace and
bounty, and reckon me among such as are not overtaken by fear
nor put to grief.
o Thou Who art the All-Knowing! Wayward though we be,
we still cling to Thy bounty; and though ignorant, we still set
our faces toward the ocean of Thy wisdom. Thou art that All-
Bountiful Who art not deterred by a multitude of sins from
vouchsafing Thy bounty, and the flow of Whose gifts is not
arrested by the withdrawal of the peoples of the world. From
eternity the door of Thy grace hath remained wide open. A dew-
drop out of the ocean of Thy mercy is able to adorn all things
with the ornament of sanctity, and a sprinkling of the waters of
Thy bounty can cause the entire creation to attain unto true
wealth ....
TRUST IN GOD
From eternity the tokens of Thy bounty have encompassed
the universe, and the splendors of Thy Most Great Name have
been shed over all created things. Deny not Thy servants the
wonders of Thy grace. Cause them to be made aware of Thee,
that they may bear witness to Thy unity, and enable them to rec-
ognize Thee, that they may hasten towards Thee. Thy mercy
hath embraced the whole creation, and Thy grace hath pervaded
all things. From the billows of the ocean of Thy generosity the
seas of eagerness and enthusiasm were revealed. Thou art what
Thou art. Aught except Thee is unworthy of any mention unles~
it entereth beneath Thy shadow, and gaineth admittance into
Thy court.
Whatever betide us, we beseech Thine ancient forgiveness,
and seek Thine all-pervasive grace.
TRUST IN GOD TO SEND HIS DIVINE MANIFESTATIONS'~
We cannot say that the Divine bounty has ceased, that the
glory of Divinity is exhausted or the Sun of Truth sunk into
eternal sunset, into that night that is not followed by a sunrise
and dawn, into that death which is not followed by life, into that
error which is not followed by Truth. Is it conceivable that the
Sun of Reality should sink into an eternal darkness? No! The
sun was created in order that it may shed light upon the world
and train all the kingdoms of existence. How then can the ideal
Sun of Truth, the Word of God, set forever? For this would
mean the cessation of the divine bounty, and the divine bounty
by its very nature is continuous and ceaseless. Its sun is ever shin-
ing, its cloud is ever proqucing rain, its breezes are ever blowing,
its bestowals are all-comprehending, its gifts are ever perfect.
Consequently we must always anticipate, always be hopeful and
pray to God that He will send unto us His Holy Manifestations*
in their most perfect might, with the Divine penetrative power of
His Word.
* i.e. great world prophets. "Manifestations" when spelled with a capital "M" signi-
fies in these pages a divinely perfect master who manifests the attributes of God as a
pure polished mirror reflects the lun.

CHAPTER Two
ENTRANCE INTO THE KINGDOM OF GOD
SECOND BIRTH
EXCEPT a man be born again, he cannot see the Kingdom of
God ....
Except a man be born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter
into the Kingdom of God ....
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is
born of the Spirit is spirit.
Although the life of the creature is called life, in reality, com-
pared to the life of the children (of the Kingdom) it is not life;
on the contrary it is death.
For instance a mineral substance contains life, but this life
compared to the life of the vegetable is death; in like manner, the
life of the vegetable compared to the life of an animal is death; in
like manner the life of human beings compared to the life of the
children of the Kingdom is death. As His Holiness Christ said,
"Let the dead bury their dead, because he who is born of the flesh
is flesh and he who is born of the Spirit is spirit."
Therefore it is evident that life (in its true sense) is the life of
the spirit, and that life is the love of God, divine inspiration,
spiritual joys, and glad tidings of God. Seek, 0 servant of God,
this life until day and night you remain in limitless joy.
Know thou, verily, God hath preferred the insight to the sight;
because the sight sees the ,material things, while the insight appre-
hends the spiritual. The former witnesses the earthly world, while
ii",
; . .tIlr~ .
ENTRANCE INTO THE KINGDOM OF GOD
the latter sees the world of the Kingdom. The former's judg-
ment is temporary, while the latter's vision is everlasting. . . . 3
Spiritual creation is rebirth, it is supreme guidance, eternal life,
universal qualities, the acquirement of the all-inclusive divine
perfections, and progress in all. stages of human endowments .
. . . Re-creation and re-birth are progress in the stages of Divine
perfections, the training of human capacities and the rising of
the light of God.
May you be given life! ...
Turn your faces away from the contemplation of your own
finite selves and fix your eyes upon the Everlasting Radiance;
then will your souls receive in full measure the divine power of
the Spirit and the blessings of the Infinite Bounty.
;
HAPPINESS AND POWER
I was happy in imprisonment. I was in the utmost elation, for
I was not a criminal, they had imprisoned me in the path of God.
. . . I was happy that-praise be to God-I was a prisoner in the
Cause of God, that my life was not wasted, that it was spent in
the Divine service. Nobody who saw me imagined that I was in
prison. They beheld me in the utmost joy, complete thankful-
ness and health, paying no attention to the prison.
At another time 'Abdu'l-Baha described His imprisonment in
such words as these:
The soul of man must be happy no matter where he is. One
must attain to that condition of inward beatitude and peace, then
outward circumstances will not alter his spiritual calmness and
joyousness. No one can imagine a worse place than the barracks
of 'Akka.'~ The climate was bad, the water was no better .. The
surroundings were filthy, the treatment of the officials was un-
bearable and we were looked upon as the enemies of religion and
corrupters of morals. The government had given an order that
• The prison in Palestine to which Baha'u'llah and His family and some Baha'is
were sent in 1868.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
during the stay in 'Akk:i no one must talk with us and we must
not talk with each other.
When we arrived in 'Akk:i it was found there were not enough
rooms in the barracks to imprison us separately so they put us all
in two rooms with no furniture at all. The court of the barracks
had a most gloomy aspect. There were three or four fig trees, over
the branches of which several ominous owls screeched all night.
Evervone got sick, and there were neither provisions nor medi-
cine.' At the entrance of the barracks there was an undertaker's
room. It was a horrible room, yet I lived there two years, with
the utmost happiness. Up to that period I had not had time to
read the Qu,dn from first to last, but then I had ample time and
used to read this holy book with fervor and enthusiasm. Going
over the incidents and events of the lives of former prophets and
finding how parallel they were with that of Baha'u'll:ih I was
consoled and encouraged. I would read for instance the follow-
ing verse: "How thoughtless are the people! Whenever a prophet
is sent to them they either ridicule Him or persecute Him." And
then I would read this verse, "Verily, our host is victorious over
them." I was very happy all the time because I was a free man.
Shut off in that room, my spirit traveled throughout the im-
mensity of space.
Then know, 0 thou virtuous soul, that as soon as thou be-
comest separated from aught else save God and dost cut thyself
from the worldly things, thy heart will shine with the lights of
divinity and with the effulgence of the Sun of Truth from the
horizon of the Realm of Might, and then thou wilt be filled by
the spirit of power from God and become capable of doing that
which thou desirest. This is the confirmed truth.
When a man is thirsty he drinks water. When he is hungry he
eats food. But if a man be not thirsty, water gives him no
pleasure and if his hunger be already satisfied, food is distasteful
to him.
This is not so with spiritual enjoyments. Spiritual enjoyments
bring always joy. The love of God brings endless happiness.
These are joys in themselves and not alleviations. The life of ani-
ENTRANCE INTO' THE KINGDOM OF GOD
mals is more simple than that of man. Animals have all their
needs supplied for them. All the grasses of the meadows are free
to them. The birds build their nests in the branching trees and
the palaces of kings are not so beautiful. If earthly needs are all,
then the animals are better supplied than man. But man has
another food, the heavenly manna of the knowledge of God. All
the Divine prophets and Manifestations appeared in the world
that this heavenly manila might be given to man. This is the
food which fosters spiritual growth and strength and causes pure
illumination in the souls of men. They become filled with the
breaths of the Holy Spirit. They increase in the knowledge of
God and those virtues which belong to the world of humanity.
They attain to the very image and likeness of God.
God created in us a divine holy spirit-the human spirit with
its intellectual powers which are above the powers of nature. By
this we enjoy the ecstasies of the spirit and see the world illu-
mined. The tree and the stone have not this power; they have no
mind or soul; therefore they are excused. We are not excused.
This power gives man effectual control over nature. He is enabled
to discover reality and bring invisible things into the courts of
the visible. Thus he is enabled to render effective the will of God
and give it material station. This is what is meant by Baha'u'll:ih
when He said, "Verily We have created you rich, why have ye
made yourselves poor?" And Jesus Christ when He said, "The
Father is in· Me and I in you." It was this power which through
Baha'u'llah said, "Noble have I created you, why do ye degrade
yourselves?" This power distinguishes you above all other crea-
tures, why do you devote it only to your material conditions?
This is that which should be used for the acquisition and mani-
festation of the bounties of God, that ye may establish the King-
dom of God among men and attain to happiness in both worlds,
the visible and the invisible.
Know thou that there are two kinds of happiness, spiritual and
material.
As to material happiness, it never exists; nay, it is but imagina-
tion, an image reflected in mirrors, a specter and shadow. Con-

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
sider the nature of material happiness. It is something which but
slightly removes one's afflictions; yet the people imagine it to be
joy, delight, exultation and blessing. All the material blessings,
including food, drink, etc., tend only to allay thirst, hunger and
fatigue. They bestow no delight on the mind nor pleasure on the
soul; nay they furnish only the bodily wants. So this kind of
happiness has no real existence.
.
As to spiritual happiness, this is the true basis of the hfe of
man, for life is created for happiness, not for sorrow; for pleasure,
not for grief. Happiness is life; sorrow is death. Spiritual happi-
ness is life eternal. This is a light which is not followed by dark-
ness. This is an honor which is not followed by shame. This is a
life that is not followed by death. This is an existence that is not
followed by annihilation. This great blessing and precious gift
is obtained by man only through the guidance of God.
This happiness is the fundamental basis from which ma~ is
created, worlds are originated, the contingent beings have eXIst-
ence and the world of God appears like unto the appearance of
the sun at mid-day.
This happiness is but the love of God ... ,
.
Were it not for this happiness the world of existence would not
have been created.
o Son of Man! Rejoice in the gladness of thine heart, that thou
mayest be worthy to meet Me and to mirror forth My beauty. 11
This is the day of rejoicing and the hour of ecstasy! This is the
season of the dead arising from the graves and gathering together!
And this is the promised time for the attainment of plenteous
grace.
Be calm, be strong, be grateful, and become a lamp full of
light, that the darkness of sorrows be annihilated, and that the
sun of everlasting joy arise from the dawning-place of heart and
soul, shining brightly.
NEED OF CAPACITY
In the beginning of his human life man was embryonic in the .
world of the matrix. There he received capacity and endowment
ENTRANCE INTO THE KINGDOM OF Goo
for the reality of human existence. The forces and powers nec-
essary for this world were bestowed upon him in that limited
condition. In this world he needed eyes; he received them poten-
tially in the other. He needed ears; he obtained them there in
readiness and preparation for his new existence. The powers
requisite in this world were conferred upon him in the world
of the matrix.
Therefore in this world he must prepare himself for the life
beyond. That which he needs in the world of the Kingdom must
be obtained here. Just as he prepared himself in the world of the
matrix by acquiring forces necessary in this sphere of existence,
so likewise the indispensable forces of the divine existence must be
potentially obtained in this world.
What is he in need of in the Kingdom, which transcends the
life and limitation of this mortal sphere? That world beyond is a
world of sanctity and radiance; therefore it is necessary that in
this world he should acquire these divine attributes. In that world
there is need of spirituality, faith, assurance, the knowledge and
love of God. These he must attain in this world so that after his
ascension from the earthly to the heavenly Kingdom he shall find
all that is needful in that life eternal ready for him.
That divine world is manifestly a world of lights; therefore
man has need of illumination here. That is a world of love; the
love of God is essential. It is a world of perfection; virtues or per-
fections must be acquired. That world is vivified by the breaths
of the Holy Spirit; in this world we must seek them. That is the
kingdom of life everlasting; it must be attained during this
vanishing existence.
By what means can man acquire these things? How shall he
obtain these merciful gifts and powers? First, through the
knowledge of God. Second, through the love of God. Third,
through faith. Fourth, through philanthropic deeds. Fifth,
through self-sacrifice. Sixth, through severance from this world.
Seventh, through sanctity and holiness. Unless he acquires these
forces and attains to these requirements he will surely be deprived
of the life that is eternal. But if he possesses the knowledge. of
God, becomes ignited through the fire of the love of God, be-

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
comes the cause of love among mankind, and lives in the utmost
state af sanctity and holiness, he shall surely attain to second
birth be baptized by the Holy Spirit and enjoy everlasting
exist:nce.
A PRAYER BY 'ABDU'L-BAHA
o Thou the Compassionate God! Bestow upon me a heart
which, like unto glass, may be illumined with the light .of Thy
love, and confer upon me a thought which may change this world
into a rose-garden through the spiritual bounty. Thou art the
Compassionate, the Merciful! Thou art the Great Beneficent
God!
CHAPTER THREE
ADY ANCING TOW ARD THE IMMORTAL REALM
o SON of Love! Thou art but one step away from the
glorious heights' above and from the celestial tree of love.
Take thou one pace and with the next advance into the immortal
realm and enter the pavilion of eternity. Give ear then to that
which hath been revealed by the Pen of Glory.
o Son of Spirit! The best beloved of all things in My sight
is Justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and neg-
lect it not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see
with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of others, and shalt
know of thine own knowledge and not through the knowledge
of thy neighbor. Ponder this in thy heart; how it behoveth thee
to be. Verily justice is My gift to thee and the sign of My loving-
kindness. Set it then before thine eyes.
Therefore it is our duty in this radiant century to investigate
the essentials of Divine religion, seek the realities underlying the
oneness of humanity and discover the source of fellowship and
agreement which will unite mankind in the heavenly bond of
love.'
I beg of God that the divine light which is spoken of in the
Twelfth Chapter of John may shed its rays upon thee forever so
that thou mayest always be in light. The life of man in this
world is short and will soon draw to an end. Consequently one
must appreciate (or count as gain) every breath (or moment) of
his life and endeavor in that which is conducive to eternal
~~

TrW DIVINE ART OF LIVING
o Son of Being! Bring thyself to account each day ere thou
art summoned to a reckoning; for death, unheralded, shall come
upon thee, and thou shalt be called to give account for thy
deeds.
A new life is, in this age, stirring within all the peoples of the
earth; and yet none hath discovered its cause or perceived its
motive. Consider the people of the West. Witness how, in their
pursuit of that which is vain and trivial, they have sacrificed, and
are still sacrificing, countless lives for the sake of its establish-
ment and promotion .... 0 friends! Be not careless of the
virtues with which ye have been endowed, neither be neglectful
of your high destiny. Suffer not your labors to be wasted through
th~ I';'lin im,l.gin;n:ol1s which ccrt:tin hearts have deviscd.
... Happy are the wise that have recognized the straight
path of God :tnd turned unto His Kingdom; happy are the glad
al1(j sincerc, the lamps of whose hearts burn with the knowledge
of the All-Merciful and are protected by self-abnegation from
the rough winds of tests and sorrows; happy are the brave whose
hearts the power of the oppressor cannot daunt; happy are the
clear-sighted that have learned to distinguish the transitory from
the eternal, that have turned their faces to the Imperishable and
are named ;lmong the Immortals in the realm of power and
glory. . . .
How noble and excellent is man, if he only attain to that state
for which he was designed. And how mean and contemptible,
if he close his eyes to the public weal, and spend his preciolls
capacities on personal and selfish ends. The greatest happiness
lies in the happiness of others ....
Unhappily they imagine that greatness and glory follow on
the accumulation of worldly riches and similar vanities. Now
clearly consider! If a man gives a thought he will see that the
omnipotwt God has distinguished him from amongst His crea-
tures bv the dress of honor, of virtue and intelligence ....
Man ha~ become the spring of divine wonders and the center of
the mysteries of the heavenly Kingdom.
ADVANCING TOWARD THE IMMORTAL REALM
Now why should he pollute this pure mantle with the stain of
selfish desires, and exchange this eternal honor for the lowest
depths of baseness? . . .
By the details which we have already explained we have en-
deavored to show that the glory, happiness, honor and peace of
man do not consist in personal wealth, but on the contrary in
sublimity of soul, nobility of resolution, extension of education
and in the solution of the problem of life. . . . "Verily in the
souls of men lieth their only glory."
. You ask if, through the appearance of the Kingdom of God,
every soul hath been saved. The Sun of Reality hath appeared to
all the world. This luminous appearance is salvation and life;
but only he who hath opened the eye of reality and who hath
seen these lights will be saved.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR LIVES
I bear witness, 0 my God, that Thou hast created me to know
Thee and to worship Thee. I testify, at this moment, to my
powerlessness and to Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy
wealth.
There is none other God but Thee, the Help-in-Peril, the Sel£-
Subsisting.
The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever
be, to enable him to know his Creator and to attain His Presence.
To this most excellent aim, this supreme objective, all the heav-
enly Books and the divinely-revealed and weighty Scriptures un-
equivocally bear witness:
According to the words of the Old Testament, God has said,
"Let us make man in Our image, after Our likeness." This indi-
cates that man is of the image and likeness of God; that is to say,
the perfections of God, the divine virtues are reflected or revealed
in the human reality. Just as the light and effulgence of the sun
when cast upon a polished mirror are reflected fully, gloriously,
so likewise the qualities and attributes of divinity are radiated

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
from the depths of a pure human heart. This is an evidence that
man is the most noble of God's creatures ....
Let us now discover more specifically how he is the image and
likeness of God and what is the standard or criterion by which he
can be measured and estimated. This standard can be no other
than the divine virtues which are revealed in him. Therefore
every man imbued with divine qualities, who reflects heavenly
moralities and perfections, who is the expression of ideal and
praiseworthy attributes, is verily in the image and likeness of
God.
Man is said to be the greatest representative of God, he is the
Book of Creation because all the mysteries of being exist in him.
If he comes under the shadow of the True Educator and is rightly
trained, he becomes the essence of essences, the light of lights, the
spirit of spirits; he becomes the center of the divine appearances,
the source of spiritual qualities, the rising place of heavenly lights
and the receptacle of divine inspirations. If he is deprived of this
education he becomes the manifestation of satanic qualities, the
sum of animal vices, and the source of all dark conditions.
o army of life! East and West have joined to worship stars of
faded splendor and have turned in prayer unto darkened hori-
zons. Both have utterly neglected the broad foundation of God's
sacred laws, and have grown unmindful of the merits and virtues
of His religion. They have regarded certain customs and conven-
tions as the immutable basis of the Divine Faith, and have firmly
established themselves therein. They have imagined themselves
as having attained the glorious pinnacle of achievement and pros-'
perity when in reality they have touched the innermost depths of
heedlessness and deprived themselves wholly of God's bountiful
gifts.
The corner-stone of the religion of God is the acquisition of the
Divine perfections and the sharing in His manifold bestowals.
The essential purpose of Faith and Belief is to ennoble the inner
being of man with the outpourings of grace from on high. If
this be not attained, it is indeed deprivation itself. It is the tor-
ment of infernal fire.
ADVANCING TOWARD THE IMMORTAL REALM
Wherefore it is incumbent upon all Baha'is to ponder this very
delicate and vital matter in their hearts, that, unlike other reli-
gions, they may not content themselves with the noise, the
clamor, the hollowness of religious doctrine. Nay, rather, they
should exemplify in every aspect of their lives those attributes
and virtues that are born of God and should arise to distinguish
themselves by their goodly behavior They should justify their
claim to be Baha'is by deeds and not by name. He is a true
Baha'i who strives by day and by night to progress and advance
along the path of human endeavor, whose most cherished desire
is so to live and act as to enrich and illuminate the world, whose
source of inspiration is the essence of Divine virtue, whose aim in
life is so to conduct himself as to be the cause of infinite progress.
Only when he attains unto such perfect gifts can it be said of
him t~at he is a true Baha'i. For in this holy Dispensation, the
crownmg glory of bygone ages, and cycles, true Faith is no mere
ackno~ledgm~llt of the Unity of God, but the living of a life
that wdl mal11fest all the perfections and virtues implied in such
belief. , . .
A PRAYER BY 'ABDU'L-BAHA
o Lord, I have turned my face unto Thy Kingdom of one-
ness and am drowned in the sea of Thy mercy! 0 Lord,
enlighten my sight by, beholding Thy lights in this dark night
and make me happy WIth the wine of Thy love in this wonderful
age! 0 Lord, make me hear Thy call and open before my face
the doors of Thy heaven, so that I may see the light of Thy glory
and become attracted to Thy beauty!
Verily, Thou art the Giver, the Generous the Merciful the
Forgiving!
"

CHAPTER FOUR
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
BENEFITS OF PRAYER
N TO thy question, "Why pray? What is the wisdom there~f,
for God has established everything and executes all affaIrs·
after the best order and He ordains everything according to a
becoming measure and puts things in their pla~es wit? the
greatest propriety and perfection-therefore what IS the wisdom
in beseeching and supplicating and in stating one's wants and
seeking help?" Know thou, verily, it is becoming of a weak one
to supplicate to the strong One and it behoveth a seeker o~ bounty
to beseech the glorious, bountiful One. When one s~pphcates t?
his Lord turns to Him and seeks bounty from HIS ocean this
supplica~ion is by itself a light to his .heart, a~ ill~mination to his
sight, a life to his soul and an exaltatIOn to his bemg.
. .
Therefore during thy supplications· to God an~ thy recltmg,
"Thy name is my healing," consider how thy heart IS cheered, ~hy
soul delighted by the spirit of the love of God and ~hy mm?
attracted to the kingdom of God! By these attractions one s
ability and capacity increase. When the vessel is widened the
water increaseth and when the thirst grows the bounty of the
cloud becomes agreeable to the taste of man. This is the mystery
of supplication and the wisdom of stating one's wants.
1 .
o thou spiritual friend! Thou hast asked the wis~om of
prayer. Know thou that prayer is indispensable and obhgatory
and man under no pretext whatsoever is excused therefrom unless
he be mentally unsound or an insurmountable obstacle prevent
him.
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
The wisdom of prayer is this, that it causes a connection be-
tween the servant and the True One, because in that state of
prayer man with all his heart and soul turns his face towards His
Highness the Almighty, seeking His association and desiring
His love and compassion. The greatest happiness for a lover is
to converse with his beloved, and the greatest gift for a seeker is
to become familiar with the object of his longing. That is why
the greatest hope of every soul who is attracted to the kingdom
of God is to find ,an opportunity to entreat and supplicate at the
ocean of His utterance, goodness and generosity.
Besides all this, prayer and fasting is the cause of awakening
and mindfulness and is conducive to protection and preservation
from tests.
Your faces shall be enlightened with the radiance of supplica-
tion to God (and) in vocation to Him.
Know that in every home where God is praised and prayed to,
and His kingdom proclaimed, that home is a garden of God and a
paradise of His happiness.
Iiow TO PRAY
Trust in the favors of thy Lord; supplicate unto Him and be-
seech in the middle of the night and at early morn just as a
needy and captive one beseeches. It is incumbent upon thee to
turn unto the Kingdom of God and to pray, supplicate and in-
voke during all times. This is the means by which thy soul shall
ascend upward to the apex of the gift of God.
Know that nothing will benefit thee in this life save supplica-
tion and invocation unto God, service in His vineyard, and,with
a heart full of love, to be in constant servitude unto Him.
Blessed is the man that hath, on the wings of longing, soared
towards God, the Lord of the Judgment Day.
Set all thy hope in God and cleave tenaciously to His unfailing
mu~
o Son of Light! Forget all save Me and commune with My
spirit. This is the essence of My command, therefore turn
unto it.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
Turn your faces away from the contemplation of your own
finite selves and fix your eyes upon the Everlasting Radiance;
then will your souls receive in full measure the Divine power of
the Spirit and the blessings of the Infinite Bounty.
o Son of Spirit! Ask not of Me that which We desire not for
thee, then be content with what We have ordained for thy sake,
for this is that which profiteth thee, if therewith thou dost con-
tent thyself.
Commit thyself to God; give up thy will and choose that of
God; abandon thy desire and lay hold on that of God.
The truest adorning (of the human heart) is the recognition
of the truth that "He doeth whatsoever He willeth, and ordaineth
that which He pleaseth."
Draw nigh unto God and persevere in (thy) communion with
(or prayer to) thy Lord, so that the fire of God's love may glow
more luminously in the heart, its heat grow stronger and give
warmth to that region and its sound reach the Supreme Con-
course.
o thou advancer toward the Kingdom! Endeavor thou day by
day to increase thy yearning and attraction so that the attitude
of supplication and prayer may be realized more often.
I render Thee thanks, 0 Thou Who hast lighted Thy fire
within my soul, and cast the beams of light into my heart, that
Thou hast taught Thy servants how to make mention of Thee,
,1I1d revealed unto them the ways whereby they can supplicate
Thee, through Thy most holy and exalted tongue, and Thy most
august and precious speech. But for Thy leave, who is there that
could venture to express Thy might and Thy grandeur; and were
it not for Thine instruction, who is the man that could discover
the ways of Thy pleasure in Thy creation?
A PRAYER OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA's
In the Name of the Lord!
o Lord, my God and my Haven in my distress! My Shield and
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
my Shelter in my woes! My Asylum and Refuge in time of need
and in my loneliness my Companion! In my anguish my Solace,
and in my solitude a loving Friend. The Remover of the pangs
of my sorrows and the Pardoner of my sins!
Wholly unto Thee do I turn, fervently imploring Thee with
all my heart, my mind and my tongue, to shield me from all that
runs counter to Thy will, in this, the Cycle of Thy Divine Unity,
and to cleanse me of all defilement that will hinder me from seek-
ing, stainless and unsullied, the shade of the tree of Thy grace.
Have mercy, 0 Lord, on the feeble, make whole the sick, and
quench the burning thirst.
Gladden the bosom wherein the fire of Thy love doth smolder
and set it aglow with the flame of Thy celestial love and spirit.
Robe the Tabernacles of Divine Unity with the vesture of
holiness and set upon my head the crown of Thy favor.
Illumine my face with the radiance of the Orb of Thy bounty
and graciously aid me in ministering at Thy holy threshold.
Make my heart overflow with love for Thy creatures and grant
that I may become the sign of Thy mercy, the token of Thy
grace; the promoter of concord amongst Thy loved ones, devoted
unto Thee, uttering Thy commemoration, and forgetful of self
but ever mindful of what is Thine.
o God! my God! Stay not from me the gentle gales of Thy
pardon and grace and deprive me not of the wellsprings of Thine
aid and favor.
'N eath the shade of Thy protecting wings let me nestle, and
cast upon me the glance of Thine all-protecting eye.
Loo~e my tongue. to l.aud Thy Name amidst Thy people, that
my VOIce may be raised 111 great assemblies and from my lips may
stream the flood of Thy praise.
Thou art, in all truth, the Gracious, the Glorified, the Mighty,
the Omnipotent!
Two PRAYERS OF THE BAB
Is there any remover of difficulties save God! Say, Praise be to

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
God! He is God! All are His servants and all are standing by
His cOlllll1and.
Say, God sufficeth all things above all things. and nothing in
the heavens or in the earth but God sufficeth. Verily, He is in
Himself, the Knower, the Sustainer, the Omnipotent.
~HAT TO PRAY FOR
Grid and sorrow do not come to us by chance, they are sent
to us by the Divine Mercy for our own perfecting.
~hile a man is happy he may forget his God; but when grief
comes and sorrows overwhelm him, then will he remember his
Father ~ho is in Heaven, and ~ho is able to deliver him from
his humiliations.
Endeavor and supplicate and pray God that, day unto day, thy
ii.rmness and steadfastness may grow and that thy countenance
may radiate through the light of guidance.
Pray to God that He may strengthen you in divine virtue, so
that YOll may be as angels in the world, and beacons of light to
disclosl: the mysteries of the Kingdom to those with understand-
ing hearts.
Forget all else save God, be in communion with Him, suppli-
cate and pray to Him to'make thee conqueror over the material
things, impressed by the bounties of the Kingdom, commem-
orating the name of thy Lord, pure from all else save Him, and
imbued with the spiritual attributes of those who are holy ...
then shall thy breaths have effect upon the hearts. . . .
Day and night I pray to Heaven for you that strength may be
yours, and that, one and all, you may participate in the blessings
of Baha'u'IIah, and enter into the Kingdom.
I supplicate that you may become as new beings illumined
with the Divine Light ... and that from one end of Europe to
the other the knowledge of the love of God may spread.
May this boundless love so fill your hearts and minds that sad-
ness may find no room to enter.
r I
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
May your eyes be opened to see the signs of the Kingdom of
God, and may your ears be unstopped so that you may hear with
a perfect understanding the heavenly Proclamation sounding
in your midst.
May your souls receive help and comfort, and, being so
strengthened, may they be enabled to live in accordance with the
teachings of Baha'u'IIah.
I pray for each and all that you may be as flames of love in the
world, and that the brightness of your light and the warmth of
your affection may reach the heart of every sad and sorrowing
child of God.
~aft, then, unto me, 0 my God and my Beloved, from the
right hand of Thy mercy and loving-kindness, the holy breaths
of Thy favors, that they may draw me away from myself and
from the world unto the courts of Thy nearness and Thy pres-
ence. Potent art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee.
ANSWERS TO PRAYER
You have asked concerning approval of Christian Science treat-
ment and healing. Spirit has influence; prayer has spiritual effect.
Therefore we pray "0 God! heal this sick one!" Perchance
God will answer. Does it matter who prays? God will answer the
praye~ ?f .every servant if that prayer is urgent. His mercy is
vast, IllImItable. He answers the prayers of all His servants. He
answers the prayer of this plant. The plant prays potentially "0
God! send me rain!" God answers the prayer and the plant
g.rows. God will answer anyone. He answers prayers poten-
tIally. . . .
.
... Did we not pray potentially for needed blessings before
we were created? ~hen we came into this world did we not find
our prayers answered? Did we not find mother, father food
li$ht, home and every other necessity and blessing, altho~gh w~
dId nol' actually ask for them? Therefore it is natural that God
will give to us when we ask Him. His mercy is all-encircling.
But we ask for things which the divine wisdom does not desire
for us and there is no answer to our prayer .... ~e pray, "0

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
God! make me wealthy!" If this prayer were univ{!rsally an-
swered, human affairs would be at a standstill. There would be
none left to work in the streets, none to till the soil, none to build,
none to run the trains. . . . The affairs of the world would be
interfered with, energies crippled and progress hindered. But
whatever we ask for, which is in accord with divine wisdom,
God will answer.
For instance, a very feeble patient may ask the doctor to give
him food which would be positively dangerous to his life and con-
dition. He may beg for roast meat. The doctor is kind and wise.
He knows it would be dangerous to his patient so he refuses to
allow it. The doctor is merciful; the patient ignorant. Through
the doctor's kindness the patient recovers; his life is saved. Yet
the patient may cry out that the doctor is unkind, not good,
because he refuses to answer his pleading.
God is merciful. In His mercy He answers the prayers of all
His servants when according to His supreme wisdom it is nec-
essary.
A servant is drawn unto Me through prayers until I answer
Him; and when I have answered his prayers, I become the ear
wherewith he heareth.
I give praise unto Thee, 0 my God, that Thou hast awakened
me out of my sleep, and brought me forth after my disappear-
ance and raised me up from my slumber. I have wakened this
morning with my face set toward the splendors of the Day-Star
of Thy Revelation, through which the Heavens of Thy power
and Thy majesty have been illumined, acknowledging Thy signs,
believing in Thy Book, and holding fast unto Thy cord. . . .
Do Thou ordain for me, 0 my Lord, the good of this world
and of the next. I testify that within Thy grasp are held the reins
of all things. Thou changest them as Thou pleasest. No God is
there save Thee, the Strong, the Faithful.
Thou art He Who changeth through His bidding abasement
into glory, and weakness into strength, and powerlessness into
might, and fear into calm, and doubt into certainty. No God is
there but Thee, the Mighty, the Beneficent.
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
Thou disappointest no one who hath sought Thee, nor dost
Thou keep back from Thee anyone who hath desired Thee.
Ordain Thou for me what becometh the heaven of Thy gener-
osity, and the ocean of Thy bounty. Thou art, verily, the
Almighty, the Most Powerful.
Regarding thy question about the morning prayer. Both
meanings are included in the word dawn (morning)-the
natural dawn, and the dawn of the Kingdom.
WHEN TO PRAY
When a soul rises in the morning from sleep, before every-
thing else he must commemorate the name of God in order that
he may obtain spirituality and illumination.
At the dawn of every day he (the true seeker) should commune
with God, and with all his soul persevere in the quest of his
Beloved.
Supplication to God at morn and eve is conducive to the joy
of hearts and prayer causes spirituality and fragrance. Thou
shouldst necessarily continue therein.
Trust in the favors of Thy Lord; supplicate unto Him and be-
seech in the middle of the night and at early morn just as a needy
and captive one beseeches. It is incumbent upon thee to turn
unto the Kingdom of God and to pray, supplicate and invoke
during all times. This is the means by which thy soul shall ascend
upward to the apex of the gift of God.
PRAYER FOR OTHERS
In these (warring) countries there is hardly a house free from
the sound of bitter weeping, scarcely can one ,find a home un-
touched by the cruel hand of war.
Alas! we see on all sides how cruel, prejudiced and unjust is
man, and how slow he is to believe in God and follow His com-
mandments.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
Why is man so hard of heart? It is because he does not yet
know God. If he had knowledge of God he could not act in
direct opposition to His laws. If only the laws and precepts of the
Prophets of God had been believed, understood and followed,
wars would no longer darken the face of the earth.
If man had even the rudiments of justice, such a state of things
would be impossible.
Therefore, I say unto you pray-pray and turn your faces to
God, that He, in His infinite compassion and mercy, may help
and succor these misguided ones. Pray that He will grant them
spiritual understanding and teach them tolerance and mercy, that
the eyes of their minds may be opened and that they may be
endued with the gift of the Spirit .... I beseech you all to pray
with heart and soul that this may be accomplished.
With all his heart should the seeker avoid fellowship with evil
doers, and pray for the remission of their sins.
Pray thou that the ill-natured become good-natured and the
weak become strong.
Reflect awhile and consider how they that are the loved ones
of God must conduct themselves, and to what heights they must
soar. Beseech thou, at all times, Thy Lord, the God of Mercy, to
aid them to do what He willeth. He, verily is the Most Powerful,
the All-Glorious.
o maid-servant of God! Do beseech and pray constantly for
'Abdu'l-Baha and beg the confirmation and assistance of God in
his behalf, because I am earnestly fond of the prayers of the maid-
servants of God in my behalf, and of their asking the blessing of
God for this servant.
I begged of God to ordain all good for thee for thy praying
for 'Abdu'I-Baha.
. . . Establish a spiritual meeting-place wherefrom the incense
of sanctity and purity will rise up to God, assemble there with
fragrance and spirituality and celebrate the Name of your Lord
by day and by night..
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
Supplication and prayer on behalf of others will surely be
effective. When hearts are united, when faces are turned towards
the Kingdom of Abha, surely enlightenment will be the result.
As the spirit of man after putting off this material form has
an everlasting life, certainly any existing being is capable of mak-
ing progress; therefore it is permitted to ask for advancement,
forgiveness, mercy, beneficence, and blessings for a man after his
death, because existence is capable of progression. That is why in
the prayers of Baha'u'llah, forgiveness and remission of sins are
asked for those who haye died. Moreover, as people in this world
are in need of God, they will also need Him in the other world.
The creatures are always in need, and God is absolutely inde-
pendent, whether in this world or in the world to come.
The wealth of the other world is nearness to God. Conse-
quently it is certain that those who are near the Divine Court are
allowed to intercede, and this intercession is approved by God.
But intercession in the other world is not like intercession in this
world: it is another thing, another reality, which cannot be ex-
pressed in words.
GRA TlTUDE AND PRAISE
Do you realize how much you should thank God for His bless-
ings? If you should thank Him a thousand times with· each
breath it would not be sufficient, because God has created and
trained you. He has protected you from every afiliction and pre-
pared every gift and bestowal. Consider what a kind Father He
is .... He has given us a kind father and compassionate mother,
. .. refreshing water, gentle breezes and the sun shining above
our heads. In brief, He has supplied all the necessities of life
although we did not ask for any of these great gifts. . ... He
has created us in this radiant century, a century longed for and
expected by all the sanctified souls in past periods. . . . The
philosophers of history have agreed that this century is equal to
one hundred past centuries. This is true from every standpoint.
l 1,
~~
;1
i!
II

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
This is the century of science, inventions, discoveries and uni-
versallaws. This is the century of the revelation of the mysteries
of God. . . . Therefore you must render thanks and glorifica-
tion to God that you were born in this age. Furthermore you
have listened to the call of Baha'u'llah .... You were asleep j
you are awakened. Your ears are attentive; your hearts are in-
formed. You have acquired the love of God. You have attained
to the knowledge of God. This is the most great bestowal of God.
... You must appreciate the value of this bounty and engage
your time in mentioning and thanking the True One. You must
live in the utmost happiness. If any trouble or vicissitude comes
into your lives, if your heart is d.epressed on account of health,
livelihood or vocation, let not these things affect you. They
should not cause unhappiness, for Baha'u'llah has brought you
divine happiness .... Render continual thanks unto God so
that the confirmations of God may encircle you all.
Be thou happy and well pleased and arise to offer thanks to
God, in order that thanksgiving may conduce to the increase of
bounty.
Thank thou the kind Father ... that the world of creation
and the heart of the universe found comfort in His mercy.
Reflect upon this: What a bounty and what a favor it is that
the sages of the world and the wise among mankind are incompe-
tent of comprehension, yet the little children of the Kingdom
have attained the Truth, dwell and abide under the shadow of the
Tree of Life and are assisted by the eternal and everlasting
~ft!
«
Wherefore be thankful to God, for having strengthened thee
to aid His Cause, for having made the flowers of knowledge and
understanding to spring forth in the garden of thine heart. Thus
hath His grace encompassed thee, and encompassed the whole
of creation. Beware, lest thou allow anything whatsoever to
grieve thee.
o Son of Being! Make mention of Me on My earth, that in My
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
heaven I may remember thee, thus shall Mine eyes and thine be
solaced.
I give praise to Thee, 0 my God, that the fragrance of Thy
loving-kindness hath enraptured me, and the gentle winds of
Thy mercy hav,: inclined me in the direction of Thy bountiful
favors.
Glory be to Thee, 0 my God! The power of Thy might
beareth me witness! I can have no doubt that should the holy
breaths of Thy loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful
favor cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe over
all created things, the entire creation would perish, and all that
are in heaven and earth would be reduced to utter nothingness.
Magnified, therefore, be the marvellous evidences of Thy trans-
cendent power! Magnified be the potency of Thine exalted
might! Magnified be the majesty of Thine all-encompassing
greatness, and the energizing influence of Thy will!
Exalted art Thou above my praise and the praise of anyone
beside me, above my description and the description of all who are
in heaven and all who are on earth!
Magnified be Thy name, 0 my God, for that Thou hast mani-
fested the Day which is the King of Days, the Day which Thou
didst announce unto Thy chosen ones and Thy Prophets in 111Y
most excellent Tablets, the Day whereon Thou didst shed the
splendor of the glory of all Thy names upon all created things.
Intone, 0 My servant, the verses of God that have been re-
ceived by thee, as intoned -by them that have drawn nigh unto
Him, that the sweetness of Thy melody may kindle thine own
soul, and attract the hearts of all men. Whoso reciteth, in the
privacy of his chamber, the verses revealed by God, the scattering
angels of the Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of the
words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart of every
righteous man to throb. Though he may, at first, remain unaware
of its effect, yet the virtue of the grace vouchsafed unto him must
needs sooner or later exercise its influence upon his soul.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
THE GRATITUDE OF BAHA'U'LLAH
Glorified art Thou, 0 my God! Thou knowest that my sole
aim in revealing Thy Cause hath been to reveal Thee and not my-
self, and to manifest Thy glory rather than my glory. In Thy
path and to attain Thy pleasure, I have scorned rest, joy, delight.
At all times and under all conditions my gaze 'hath been fixed
on Thy precepts, and mine eyes bent upon the things Thou hast
bidden me observe in Thy Tablets. I have wakened every morn-
ing to the light of Thy praise and Thy remembrance, and reached
every evening inhaling the fragrance of Thy mercy.
Every time I lift mine eyes unto Thy heaven, I call to mind
Thy highness and Thy loftiness, and Thine incomparable glory
and greatness; and every time I turn my gaze to Thine earth, I
am made to recognize the evidences of Thy power and the tokens
of Thy bounty. And when I behold the sea, I find that it speak-
eth to me of Thy majesty, and of the potency of Thy might, and
of Thy sovereignty and of Thy grandeur. And at whatever time I
contemplate the mountains, I am led to discover the ensigns of
Thy victory and the standards of Thine omnipotence.
5?
Every trouble that hath touched me in Thy path hath added to
my joy and increased my gladness. I swear by Thee, 0 Thou
Who art the King of Kings! None of the kings of the earth hath
power to hinder me from remembering Thee or from extolling
Thy virtues.
I yield Thee such thanks, as can direct the steps of the wayward
towards the splendors of the morning light of Thy guidance.
. . . I yield Thee such thanks as can cause the sick to draw nigh
11 n to the waters of Thy healing, and can help those who are far
trom Thee to approach the living fountain of Thy presence.
. . . I yield Thee such thanks as can stir up all things to extol
Thee . . . and can unloose the tongues of all beings to ...
magnify Thy beauty ... I yield Thee such thanks as can make
the corrupt tree to bring forth good fruit ... and revive the
bodies of all beings with the gentle winds of Thy transcendent
grace ... I yield Thee such thanks as can cause Thee to forgive
r
I
I
I
I
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
all sins and trespasses, and to fulfill the needs of the peoples of all
religions, and to waft the fragrances of pardon over the entire
creation ... I yield Thee such thanks as can satisfy the wants
of all such as seek Thee, and realize the aims of them that have
recognized Thee. I yield Thee such thanks as can blot out from
the hearts of men all suggestions of limitations ... "
MEDITATION AND THE REVEALED WORD OF GOD
One hour's reflection is preferable to seventy years of pious
worship.
Through the faculty of meditation man attains to eternal life;
Through it he receives the breath of the Holy Spirit-the be-
stowal of the Spirit is given in reflection and meditation.
This faculty of meditation frees man from the animal nature,
discerns the reality of things, puts man in touch with God.
This faculty brings forth from the invisible plane the sciences
and arts. Through the meditative faculty inventions are made
possible, colossal undertakings are carried out; through it govern-
ments can run smoothly. Through this faculty man enters into
the very Kingdom of God. . .. '
Nevertheless some thoughts are useless to man; they are like
waves moving in the sea without result. But if the faculty of
meditation is bathed in the inner light and characterized with
divine attributes, the results will be confirmed.
The meditative faculty is akin to the mirror; if you put it be-
fore earthly objects it will reflect them. Therefore if the spirit of
man is contemplating earthly subjects he will be informed of
these.
But if you turn the mirror of your spirits heavenwards ...
the rays of the Sun of Reality will be reflected in your hearts, and
the virtues of the Kingdom will be obtained.
Therefore let us keep this faculty rightly directed-turning it
to the heavenly Sun and not to earthly objects-so that we may
discover the secrets of the Kingdom, and comprehend the alle-
gories of the Bible and the mysteries of the Spirit.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
Investigate and study the Holy Scriptures word by word so
that you may attain knowledge of the mysteries hidden therein.
Be not satisfied with words, but seek to understand the spiritual
meanings hidden in the heart of the words. . . .
For instance, ... consider the symbolical meanings of the
words :lnd teachings of Christ. His Holiness said, "I am the living
bread which came down from heaven; if any man eat of this
bread he shall live forever." When the Jews heard this they took
it literally and failed to understand the significance of His mean-
ing and teaching. The spiritual truth which Christ wished to
convey to them was that the reality of Divinity within Him was
like a blessing which had come down from heaven and that he
who partook of this blessing should never die. That is to say,
"bread" was the symbol of the perfections which had descended
upon Him from God, and he who ate of this bread or endowed
himself with the perfections of Christ would undoubtedly attain
to life everlasting. The Jews did not understand Him, and taking
the words literally said, "How can this man give us his flesh to
eat?" Had they understood the real meaning of the Holy Book
they would have become believers in Christ.
All the texts and teachings of the Holy Testaments have in-
trinsic spiritual meanings.
They are not to be taken literally .
. . . These are the mysteries of God .... I therefore pray in
your behalf thn you may be given the power of understanding
these inner real meanings of the Holy Scriptures and may be-
come informed of the mysteries deposited in the words of the
Bible so that you may attain eternal life and that your hearts may
be attracted to the Kingdom of God. May your souls be illumined
by the light of the words of God and may you become reposi-
tories of the mysteries of God, for no comfort is greater and no
happiness is sweeter than spiritual comprehension of the Divine
teachings.
S 8
Chant (or recite) the words of God every morning and eve-
ning. The one who neglects this has not been faithful to the
Covenant of God and His agreement, and he who turns away
from it today is of those who have turned away from God.
PRAYER AND MEDITATION
Fear God, 0 my people! Let not too much reading (of the Sacred
Word) ... make you proud. To chant but one verse with joy
and gladness is better for you than reading all the revelations of
the omnipotent God with carelessness. Chant the Tablets of God
in such measure that ye be not overtaken with fatigue and de-
pression. Burden not the soul so as to cause exhaustion and
languor, but rather refresh it that thus it may soar on the wings
of revelation to the Dawning-place of proofs. This brings you
nearer to God, were ye of those who understand.
S9
Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may un-
ravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid
in its depths.

CHAPTER FIVE
THE POWER OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
WHAT Is THE HOLY SPIRIT?
THE Holy, Sp,irit is t?e Medi~tor between God and His crea-
tures, It IS lIke a mIrror facmg the sun. As the pure mirror
receives light from the sun and transmits this bounty to others,
so the Holy Spirit is the mediator of the Holy Light from the Sun
of Reality, which it gives to the sanctified realities. It is adorned
with all the divine perfections. Every time it appears the world is
renewed, and a new cycle is founded. The body of the world of
hu~anity puts o~ a new garment. It can be compared to the
spnng; whenever It comes the world passes from one condition to
another. Through the advent of spring the earth becomes ver-
dant and blooming, and all sorts of flowers and sweet-scented
herbs grow; the trees have new life, new fruits appear, and a new
cycle is founded. The appearance of the Holy Spirit is like this.
Whenever it appears, it renews the world of humanity and gives
a new spirit to the human realities; it arrays the world of exist-
ence in a praiseworthy garment, dispels the darkness of ignorance
an~ causes the radiation of the light of perfections. Christ with
thIS power has renewed this cycle; the heavenly spring with the
utmost freshness and sweetness spread its tent in the world of
humanity and the life-giving breeze perfumed the nostrils of the
enlightened ones.
,
In the same way, the appearance of Baha'u'ltih was like a new
springtime which appeared with holy breezes, with the hosts of
everlasting life, and with heavenly power. It established the
Throne of the Divine Kingdom in the center of the world, and by
THE POWER OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
the power of the Holy Spirit revived souls and established a
new cycle.
The Divine Reality is Unthinkable, Limitless, Eternal, Im-
mortal and Invisible.
The world of creation is bound by natural law, finite and
mortal.
The Infinite Reality cannot be said to ascend or descend. It is
beyond the understanding of man, and cannot be described in
terms which apply to the phenomenal sphere of the created
world.
Man, then, is in extreme need of the only Power by which he is
able to receive help from the Divine Reality, that Power alone
bringing him into contact with the Source of all life.
An intermediary is needed to bring two extremes ,into relation
with each other. Riches and poverty, plenty and need; without
an intermediary power the're could be no relation between these
pairs of opposites.
So we can say that there must be a Mediator between God and
man, and this is none other than the Holy Spirit, which brings
the created earth into relation with the "Unthinkable One," the
Divine Reality.
,
. The Divine Reality may be likened to the sun and the Holy
~pirit to the rays of the sun. As the rays of the sun bring the
ltght and warmth of the sun to the earth, giving life to all created
beings, so do the "Manifestations" bring the power of the Holy
Spirit from the Divine Sun of Reality to give Light and Life to
the souls of men. . . .
The Holy Spirit it is, :which, through the mediation of the
Prophets of God, teaches spiritual virtues to man and enables him
to attain Eternal life.
It is evident that the souls receive grace from the bounty of
the Holy Spirit which appears in the Manifestations of God, and
not from the personality of the Manifestation.
... The spirit of man is not illumined and quickened
through material sources. It is not resuscitated by investigating
phenomena of the world of matter. The spirit of man is in need

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
of the protection of the Holy Spirit. Just as he advances by
progressive stages from the mere physical world of being into the
intellectual realm, so must he develop upward in moral attributes
and spiritual graces. In the process of this attainment he is ever
in need of the bestowals of the Holy Spirit. Material develop-
ment may be likened to the glass of a lamp whereas divine virtues
and spiritual susceptibilities arc the light within the glass. The
lamp chimney is worthless without the light; likewise man in his
material condition requires the radiance and vivification of the
divine virtues and merciful attributes. Wilhout the presence of
the Holy Spirit he is lifeless. Although physically and mentally
alive he is spiritually dead. His Holiness Christ announced,
"That which is born of flesh is flesh and that which is born of
spirit is spirit," meaning that man must be born again. As the
babe is born into the light of this physical world so must the
physical and intellectual man be born into the light of the world
of divinity.
ITS POWER
When Christ apeared with those marvelous breaths of the
Holy Spirit, the children of Israel said, "We are quite independ-
ent of Him; we can do without Him and follow Moses; we have
a book and in it are found the teachings of God; what need
therefore have we of this man?" Christ said to them, "The book
sufficeth you not." It is possible for a man to hold to a book of
medicine and say, "I have no need of a doctor; I will act accord-
i ng to the book; in it every disease is named, all symptoms are
explained, the diagnosis of each ailment is completely written
out and a prescription for each malady is furnished; therefore
why do I need a doctor?" This is sheer ignorance. A physician is
needed to prescribe. Through his skill, the principles of the book
are correctly and effectively applied until the patient is restored
to health. Christ was a heavenly physician. He brought spiritual
health and healing into the world. Baha'u'llah is likewise a divine
physician. He has revealed prescriptions for removing disease
from the body-politic and has remedied human conditions by
spiritual power.
r
!
I
!
I
THE POWER OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
To gain control over physical bodies is an extremely easy mat-
ter, but to bring spirits within the bonds of serenity is a most
arduous undertaking. This is not the work of everybody. It
necessitates a Divine and holy potency, the potency of inspira-
tion, the power of the Holy Spirit. For example, His Holiness
Christ was capable of leading spirits into that abode of serenity.
He was capable of guiding hearts into that haven of rest. From
the day of His manifestation to the present time He has been
resuscitating hearts and quickening spirits. He has exercised that
vivifying influence in the realm of hearts and spirits; therefore
His resuscitating is everlasting. In this century of the "latter
times" Baha'u'llah has appeared and so resuscitated spirits that
they have manifested powers more than human. Thousands of
His followers have given their lives and while under sword, shed-
ding their blood, they have proclaimed "Ya-Baha'u'l-Abha!"'~
Such resuscitation is impossible except through a heavenly po-
tency, a power supernatural, the Divine power of the Holy
Spirit.
We understand that the Holy Spirit is the energizing factor
in the life of man. Whosoever receives this power is able to in-
fluence all with whom he comes in contact ....
The difference between spiritual philosophers and others is
shown by their lives. The Spiritual Teacher shows his belief in
his own teaching by himself being what he recommends to
others.
An humble man without learning, but filled with the Holy
Spirit, is more powerful than the most profound scholar, with-
out that inspiration. He :who is educated by the Divine Spirit
can, in his time, lead others to receive the same Spirit.
I pray for you that you may be informed by the life of the
Divine Spirit, so that you may be the means of educating others.
The life and morals of a spiritual man are, in themselves, an edu-
cation to those who know him.
Think not of your own limitations, dwell only on the welfare
• 0 Thou Glory of the Most Gloriousl

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
of the Kingdom of Glory. Consider the influence of Jesus Christ
on His Apostles, then think of their effect upon the world.
These simple men were enabled by the Power of the Holy
Spirit to spread the glad tidings!
So may you all receive Divine assistance! No capacity is lim-
ited when led by the Spirit of God!
How TO ATTRACT THE POWER OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
Know thou that the Messianic Spirit and the outpouring of the
Holy Spirit is always manifest, but capacity and ability (to
receive it) is more in some and less in others. After the Cruci-
fixion the Apostles had not in the beginning the capacity and
ability to witness the Messianic reality; for they were agitated.
But when they found firmness and steadfastness, their inner
sight became opened, and they saw the reality of the Messiah as
manifest.
A soul who is firm will become a son of the Kingdom of God
and will be confirmed with the power of the Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit speaketh to the pure hearts and to the good
and righteous souls in every spot of the earth .... Turn thyself
wholly to it-thus thou shalt be enabled to ascertain its influence
and power, the strength of its life and the greatness of its con-
firma tion.
Do not look at your weakness, nay, rely upon the confirma-
tion of the Holy Spirit. Verily, it maketh the weak strong, the
lowly mighty, the child grown ... and the small great.
The Holy Spirit breathes in this day unto the hearts which are
moving, beating, pure and attracted by the love of God.
I now assure thee, 0 servant of God, that, if thy mind become
empty and pure from every mention and thought and thy heart
attracted wholly to the Kingdom of God, forgetting all else be-
sides God and coming into communion with the Spirit of God,
then the Holy Spirit will assist thee with a power which will
THE POWER OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
enable thee to penetrate all things, and a Dazzling Spark which
enlightens all sides; a Brilliant Flame in the zenith of the heavens,
will teach thee that which thou dost not know of the facts of the
universe and of the divine doctrine. Verily, I say unto thee,
every soul that ariseth today to guide others to the path of safety
and infuse into them the Spirit of Life, the Holy Spirit will in-
spire that soul with evidences, proofs and facts, and the lights
will shine upon it from the Kingdom of God. Do not forget
what I have conveyed unto thee from the breath of the Spirit.
Verily it is the shining morn and the rosy dawn which will im-
part unto thee the lights, reveal the mysteries and make thee
competent in science, and through it the pictures of the Supreme
World will be printed in thy heart and the facts of the secrets
of the Kingdom of God will shine before thee.

CHAPTER SIX
FAITH AND CERTITUDE
FAITH AN AWARENESS OF THE SOVEREIGNTY OF GOD
THE Hand of Omnipotence hath established His Revelation
upon an unassailable, an enduring foundation. Storms of
human strife are powerless to undermine its basis, nor will men's
fanciful theories succeed in damaging its structure.
I,testify, 0 my God, to that whereunto Thy chosen Ones have
testIfied and acknowledge that which the inmates of the all-
highest Paradise and those who have circled round Thy mighty
Throne have acknowledged. The kingdoms of earth and heaven
are Thine, 0 Lord of the worlds!
SIGNS OF TRUE FAITH
Although a person of good deeds is acceptable at the threshold
of the Almighty, yet it is first "to know" and then "to do."
Although a blind man produceth a most wonderful and exquisite
art, yet he is deprived of seeing it. Consider how most animals
!abor for man, draw loads and facilitate travel; yet, as they are
Ignorant, they receive no reward for this toil and labor. The
clQud raineth, roses and hyacinths grow; the plain and meadow,
the gar~en and trees become green and blossom; yet they do
~ot realIze the ;esults and outcom~ of all these. The lamp is
lIghted, but as It hath not a conSCIOUS knowledge of itself, no
one hath become glad because of it. Moreover, a soul of excel-
lent deeds and good manners will undoubtedly advance, from
whatever horizon he beholdeth the lights radiating. Herein lies
the difference: By faith is meant, first, conscious knowledge,
and second, the practice of good deeds.
FAITH AND CERTITUDE
Blessed is the man that hath acknowledged his belief in God
and in His signs, and recognized that "He shall not be asked of
His doings." Such a recognition hath been made by God the
ornament of every belief, and its very foundation. Upon it must
depend the acceptance of every goodly deed. Fasten your eyes
upon it, that haply the whisperings of the rebellious may not
cause you to slip. . . . He that hath acknowledged this principle
will be endowed with the most perfect constancy. Such is the
teaching which God bestoweth upon you, a teaching which will
deliver you from all manner of doubt and perplexity, and enable
you to attain unto salvation in both this world and the next. He,
verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful.
Now faith is assurance of things hoped for, a conviction of
things not seen. . . . By faith we understand that the worlds
have been framed by the Word of God, so that what is seen hath
not been made out of things which appear ....
He that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is
a rewarder of them that seek after Him. By faith Noah, being
warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with godly fear,
prepared an :j.rk to the saving of his house. . . . By faith Abra-
ham, when he was called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he
was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing
whither he went. By faith he became a sojourner in the land of
promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac
and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked
for the city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is
God. By faith Moses forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the
king, for he endured as seeing Him who is invisible. . . .
And what more shall I ;ay? for the time will fail me if I tell of
Gideon, . . . of David and Samuel and the prophets, who
through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, ob-
tained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the power
of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made
strong. . . . Others had trials of mockings and scourgings, yea,
moreover of bonds and imprisonment; they were stoned, they
were sawn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
sword: they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins being desti-
tute, afllicted, ill-treated-of whom the world was ~ot worthy-
wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and the holes of
the earth ....
Therefore, let us also, seeing we are compassed about with so
gre~t a cloud of ~itnesses, lay aside every weight and the sin
whIch doth so easIly beset us, and let us run with patience the
race that is set before us.
~n this most resplendent Dispensation, this most mighty Sov-
ereIgnty, a number of illumined divines, of men of consummate
learning, of doctors of mature wisdom, have attained unto His
Court, drunk the cup of His divine Presence and been invested
with the honor of His most excellent fav~r. They have re-
nounced for the sake of the Beloved the world and all that is
therein. . . .
'
~II these were guided by the light of that Sun of divine Reve-
la~lOn, confessed and acknowledged His truth. Such was their
faIth that most of them renounced their substance and kindred,
and cleav:d t.o the good-pleasure of the All-Glorious. They laid
down theIr lIves for theIr Well-Beloved and surrendered their
all in His path. Their breasts were made'targets for the darts of
the enemy, and their heads adorned the spears of the infidel. No
land remained which did not drink the blood of these embodi-
ments of detachment, and no sword that did not bruise their
necks. Their deeds alone testify to the truth of their words.
The essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance of
deeds; he whose words exceed his deeds, know verily his death is
better than his life. . . .
Just as the conception of faith hath existed from the beginning
that hath no beginning, and will endure to the end that hath no
end, in l~ke ~~nn~r will the .true believer eternally live and en-
dure .. HIS spmt WIll everlastIngly circle round the Will of God.
He wIll last as long as God Himself will last .... It is evident
that .the loftiest man.sio~s in the Realm of Immortality have been
ordaIned .as t~e ?abitatlOn of them that have truly believed in
God and In HIS SIgns. Death can never invade that holy seat.
FAITH AND CERTITUDE
He that par taketh of the 'waters of My Revelation will t~ste. all
the incorruptible delights ordained by God from the begInmng
that hath no beginning to the end that hath no end.
The first sign of faith is Love.
Verily I read thy letter, which indicated that the Truth (of
God) hath revealed itself unto thee, that thy fear is quieted and
that thou hast attained unto composure, assuredly believing in this
great Cause.
Know thou, verily, there are many veils in which the Truth
is enveloped; gloomy veils; then delicate and transparent veils;
then the envelopment of Light, the sight of which dazzles the
eyes ....
Faith is the magnet which draws the confirmation of the Mer-
ciful One. Service is the magnet which attracts the heavenly
strength. I hope thou wilt attain both.
How Is FAITH GAINED?
Rely upon God, thy God and the Lord of thy fathers. For the
people are wandering in the paths of delusion, bereft of discern-
ment to see God with their own eyes, or hear His Melody with
their own ears.
... Every man hath been, and will continue to be, able of
himself to appreciate the Beauty of God, the Glorified. Had he
not been endowed with such a capacity, how could he be called
to account for his failure? If, in the day when all the peoples of
the earth will be gathered" together, any man should reply and
say: "Inasmuch as all men have erred, and none hath been found
willing to turn his face to the Truth, I, too, following their
example, have grievously failed to recognize the Beauty of the
Eternal," such a plea will, assuredly, be r~jected. For the faith
of no man can be conditioned by anyone except himself.
If thou wishest. the divine knowledge and recognition, purify
thy heart from all beside God, be wholly attracted to the ideal,

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
beloved One; search for and choose Him and apply thyself to
rational and authoritative arguments. For arguments are a guide
to the path and by this the heart will be turned unto the Sun of
Truth. And when the heart is turned unto the Sun, then the
eye will be opened and will recognize the Sun through the Sun
itself. Then (man) will be in no need of arguments (or proofs) ,
for the sun is altogether independent, and absolute independence
is in need of nothing, and proofs are one of the things (of which
absolute independence has no need). Be not like Thomas; be
thou like Peter.
Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing
desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and
ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker's heart, and the breeze of
His loving-kindness is wafted upon his soul, will the darkness
of error be dispelled, the mists of doubts and misgivings be dissi-
pated, and the lights of knowledge and certitude envelop his
being.
Verily, I beseech the Lord of Hosts to increase thy faith each
day over that of the previous day.
Be confident in the bounty of thy Lord.
Say: The first and foremost testimony establishing His truth
is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His Revelation. For
whoso faileth to recognize either the one or the other He hath
established the words He hath revealed as proof of His reality
and truth. This is, verily, an evidence of His tender mercy unto
men. He hath endowed every soul with the capacity to recog-
nize the signs of God .... He will never deal unjustly with any
one, neither will he task a soul beyond its power. He, verily, is
the Compassionate, the All-Merciful.
Faith in God, and the knowledge of Him, cannot be fully
realized except through believing in all that hath proceeded from
Him (the Manifestation), and by practicing all that He hath
commanded and all that is revealed in the Book from the
Supreme Pen.
CHAPTER SEVEN
HEALING AND HEALTH
DIFFERENT KINDS OF HEALING
T
HERE are two ways of he.aling sickness, materia.l means an.d
spiritual means. The first IS by the use of reme~les, of .medl-
cines' the second consists in praying to God and 10 turmng to
Him: Both means should be used and practiced.
.
Illness caused by physical accident shou!d. be treated ~Ith
medical remedies' those which are due to spmtual causes dIsap-
pear through spiritual means. Thus an illness caus~d by affliction,
fear, nervous impressions, will be healed by spiritua~ rather than
by physical treatment. Hence, both kinds of r~medles should be
considered. Moreover they are not contradIctory, and thou
shouldst accept the physical remedies as coming from the mercy
and favor of God, Who hath revealed and made manifest medical
science so that His servants may profit from this kind of treat-
ment also.
Thou shouldst give equal attention to spiritual
treatments, for they produce marvelous effects.
Now, if thou wish est to know the Divine remedy which will
heal man from all sickness. and will give him the health of the
Divine Kingdom, know that it is the precepts and teachings of
God. Guard them sacredly.
Should ye be attacked by illness or disease, consult skillful
physicians ....
Do not neglect medical treatment when it is necessary, but
leave it off when health has been restored. Treat disease through
diet, by preference, refraining from the use of drugs; and if you
find what is required in a single herb, do not resort to a com-
n

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
pounded medicament .... Abstain from drugs when the health
is good, but administer them when necessary.
When . . . the science of medicine . . . has reached ma-
turity cures will be performed by things which are not repulsive
to the smell and taste of man; that is to say by aliments, fruits
and vegetables which arc agreeable to the taste and have an agree-
able smell. ...
The cause of the entrance of disease into the human body is
either a physical one or is the effect of excitement of the nerves.
But the principal causes of disease are physical; for the human
body is composed of numerous elements, but in the measure of
an especial equilibrium. As long as this equilibrium is main-
tained, man is preserved from disease; but if this essential balance,
which is the pivot of the constitution is disturbed, the constitu-
tion is disordered, and disease will supervene.
... So long as the aim is the readjustment of the constituents
of the body, it can be effected either by medicine or by food.
It is therefore evident that it is possible to cure by foods, ali-
ments and fruits; but as today the science of medicine is imper-
fect, this fact is not yet fully grasped. When the science of
medicine reaches perfection, treatment will be given by foods, ali-
ments, fragrant fruits, and vegetables, and .by various waters,
hot and cold in temperature.
(Healing may result) from the entire concentration of the
mind of a strong person upon a sick person, when the latter ex-
pects with all his concentrated faith that a cure will be effected
from the spiritual power of the strong person to such an extent
that there will be a cordial connection between the strong person
and the invalid. The strong person makes every effort to cure the
sick patient, and the sick patient is then sure of receiving a cure.
From the effect of these mental impressions an excitement of the
nerves is produced, and this impression and this excitement of the
nerves will become the cause of the recovery of the sick person.
So when a sick person has a strong desire and intense hope for
something, and hears suddenly the tidings of its realization, a
HEALING AND HEALTH
nervous excitement is produced, which will make the malady en-
tirely disappear. In the same way, if a cause of terror suddenly
occurs, perhaps an excitement may be produced in the nerves of
a strong (well) person, which will immediately cause a malady.
The cause of the sickness will be no material thing, for that per-
son has not eaten anything, :lnd nothing harmful has touched
him; the excitement of the nerves is then the only cause of the
illness. In the same way the sudden realization of a chief desire
will give such joy that the nerves will be excited by it, and this
excitement may produce health.
To conclude, the complete and perfect connection between the
spiritual doctor and the sick person-that is, a connection ~f such
a kind that the spiritual doctor entirely concentrates himself,
and all the attention of the sick person is given to the spiritual
doctor from whom he expects to realize health-causes an excite-
ment of the nerves, and health is produced.
But all this has effect only to a certain extent, and that not
always. For if some one is afflicted with a very violent disease,
or is wounded, these means will not remove the d~sease nor close
and heal the wound. That is to say, these means have no power
in severe maladies, unless the constitution helps, because a strong
constitution often overcomes disease.
But (another) kind of healing is produced through the power
of the Holy Spirit. This does not depend on contact, nor on
sight, nor upon presence; it is not dependent upon any condition ..
Whether the disease be light or severe, whether there be a contact
of bodies or not, whether a personal connection be established
between the sick person and the healer or not, this healing takes
place through the power of the Holy Spirit.
Joy gives us wings!
our intellect keener. .
leaves us.
In times of joy our strength is more vital,
.. But when sadness visits us our strength
All true healing comes from God. There are two causes for
sickness, one is material, the other spiritual. If the sickness is of
the body, a material remedy is needed, if of the soul, a spiritual
remedy.
~.
'
j.
, I
"i,'
ih,
1.1:.
,
< ,
,","
!.: .I~
j"
I·"
tl

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
If the heavenly benediction be upon us while we are being
healed then only can we be made whole, for medicine is but the
outward and visible means through which we can obtain the
heavenly healing. Unless the spirit be healed, the cure of the
body is worth nothing. All is in the hands of God, and without
Him there can be no health in us.
HEALING AS AN ANSWER TO PRAYER
Without the help of God man is even as the beasts that perish,
but God has bestowed such wonderful power upon him that he
might ever look upward, and receive, among other gifts, healing
from His Divine Bounty.
o thou pure and spiritual one!
Turn thou toward God with thy heart beating with His love,
devoted to His praise, gazing toward His Kingdom and seeking
help from His Holy Spirit in a state of ecstasy, rapture, love,
yearning, joy and fragrance. God will assist thee, through a
Spirit from His Presence, to heal sickness and diseases.
You have asked concerning approval of Christian Science
treatment and healing. Spirit has influence; prayer has spiritual
effect.
Therefore we pray, "0 God! heal this sick one!" Per-
chance God will answer. Does it matter who prays? God will
answer the prayer of every servant if that prayer is urgent. His
mercy is vast, illimitable.
In God mfist be our trust. There is no God but Him, the
Healer, the Knower, the Helper .... Nothing in earth or
heaven is outside the grasp of God.
o physician! In treating the sick, first mention the name of
Thy God, the Possessor of the Day of Judgment and then use
what God hath destined for the healing of His creatures. By My
Life! The physician who has drunk from the Wine of My Love,
his visit is healing, and his breath is mercy and hope. Cling to
him for the welfare of the constitution. He is confirmed by
God in his treatment.
'lof',
,"".
HEALING AND HEALTH
This knowledge (of the healing art) is the most importan~ of
all the sciences, for it is the greatest means from God, the Ltfe-
giver to the dust, for preserving the bodies of ~ll people, and .~e
has put it in the forefront of all sciences and wls.doms. For thiS IS
the day when you must arise for My Victory.
Say: Thy name is my healing, 0 my God, and remembrance
of Thee is my remedy. Nearness to Thee is my hope, and love
for Thee is my companion. Thy mercy to me is my healing and
my succor in both this world and the world to come. Tho1,1,
verily, art the All-Bountiful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
MEANS OF PRESERVING HEALTH
Be the essence of cleanliness among mankind . . . under all
circumstances conform yourselves to refined manners . . . let
no trace of uncleanliness appear on your clothes. . . . Immerse
yourselves in pure water .... Verily We have desired to see in
you the manifestations of Paradise on earth, so that there may be
diffused from you that whereat the hearts of the favored ones
shall rejoice.
Cleanliness and sanctity in all conditions are characteristics of
pure beings and necessities of free souls. . . .
In all conditions, cleanliness and sanctity, purity and delicacy
exalt humanity and make the contingent beings progress. Even
when applied to physical things, delicacy causeth the attainment
of spirituality, as it is established in the Holy Scriptures.
External cleanliness, although it is but a physical thing, hath a
great influence upon spirituality. For example, although sound
is but the vibrations of the air, which affect the tympanum of the
ear, and vibrations of the air are but an accident among the acci-
dents which depend upon the air, consider how much marvelous
notes or a charming song influence the spirits! A wonderful song
giveth wings to the spirit and filleth the heart with exaltation.
To return to the subject, the fact of having a pure and spotless
body likewise exerciseth an influence upon the spirit of man.
. . . 0 friends of God! Experience hath shown how much the
''l'
,"
.. ~,
:~
,
.. '
,/

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
reno~ncing of tob~cco, wine and opium, giveth health, strength
and I.ntellectual enjoyments, penetration of judgment and physi-
cal vIgor ....
~he~efore strive that the greatest cleanliness and sanctity,
whIch IS the gr~~,t desire of 'Abdu'l-Baha, should be resplendent
among the Baha IS, and that the companions of God should sur-
pass the rest of mankind in all conditions and perfections' that
they may be physically and morally superior to others.' that
through ~leanlin~ss and purity, refinement and health, the~ may
be the cJ1lCf of WIse men, and that by their affranchisement their
prudence and the control of their desires, they may be the p~inces
of the pure, the free and the wise.
The drinking of wine . . . is the cause of chronic diseases,
weakeneth the nerves, and consumeth the mind.
T~e powers of the sympathetic nerve are neither entirely
phYSIcal r:or spiritual, but are between the two. The nerve is con-
?ected wIth both. Its phenomena shall be perfect when its spir-
Itual and physical relations are normal.
\'«"hen the material world and the divine world are well co-
re!~ted, when the h~a.rts become heavenly and the aspirations
become pure. and dlvme, perfect connection shall take place.
Then s~~ll thIsyower produce a perfect manifestation. Physical
and spmtual dIseases will then receive absolute healing.
I ho.pc thou. ,:iit become .as a risin.g light and obtain spiritual
health, and SplfItual health IS conducIve to physical health.
Verily the most necessary thing is contentment ~nder all cir-
cumstanc~s; by thi.s one is preserved from morbid conditions and
from lasslt.ude. YIeld not to grief and sorrow; they cause the
greatest n:1sery. J?alousy consumeth the body and anger doth
burn the lIver; aVOId these two as you would a lion.
SPIRITUAL HEALTH
I hop.e,. as you have received physical health, you will receive
your spll"Jtual health. As the body will be cured of physical dis-
HEALING AND HEALTH
eases, in the same way the spirit will be cured of all spiritual
diseases. A cure of physical disease is very easy, but the cure. of
spiritual disease is very difficult. 1£ one has fever and you give
him medicine, the fever will vanish; but if the spirit is afflicted
with the disease of ignorance, it is difficult to remove that disease.
For example, if the spiritual health is afflicted with the love of the
world, spiritual medicine must be given. These medicines are the
advices and commands of God, which will have effect upon it. 17
I beseech God to ordain prosperity unto thee in this world,
to confer favor upon thee in His supreme Kingdom, and to heal
thee from the illness which has befallen thee for some hidden
reason which no one knows save God. Verily, the will of God
engages occasionally in some matter for which mankind is un-
able to find out the reason. The causes and reasons shall appear.
Trust in God and confide in Him, and resign thyself to the will
of God. Verily, thy God is affectionate, compassionate and mer-
ciful. He will look at thee with the glances of the eye of merci-
fulness, will guard thee with the eye of bounty, and will cause
His mercy to descend upon thee.
... For these thy prevailing diseases are not on account of
sins, but they are to make thee detest this world and know that
there is no rest and composure in this temporal life.
I beg of God that thou mayest find a cheerful life
in-
crease the longing ... of the maidservants of the Merciful One
and bring joy and happiness to the handmaidens of God; so that
thou mayest diffuse the fragrances and chant the (revealed)
verses.
If the health and well-being of the body be expended in the
path of the Kingdom, this is very acceptable and praiseworthy;
and if it is expended to the benefit of the human world in gen-
eral-even though it be to their material benefit and be a means
of doing good-that also is acceptable. But if the health and wel-
fare of man be spent in sensual desires in a life on the animal plane,
. . . then disease is better than such health; nay, death itself is
preferable to such a life. If thou art desirous of health. wish thou

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
healt~ f~r serving ~he K~ngdom. I hope thou mayest attain a per-
fe~t. InsIght, an ~nflexible resolution, a complete health and
spmtual and ph~slcal strengt~ in order that thou mayest drink
from the fountam of eternal hfe and be assisted by the spirit of
Divine confirmation.
CHA PTER EIGHT
PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS OF THE
SPIRITUAL LIFE
SERVICE
THERE is no greater result than bonds of service in the Divine
kingdom and attainment to the good-pleasure of the Lord.
I l
Therefore I desire that your hearts may be directed to the king-
I I
dom of God, that your intentions may be pure and sincere,
your purposes turned toward altruistic accomplishment unmind-
ful of your own welfare; nay, rather, may all your intentions
center in the welfare of humanity, and may you seek to sacri-
fice yourselves in the pathway of devotion to mankind. Even as
His Holiness Jesus Christ forfeited his life, may you likewise offer
yourselves in the threshold of sacrifice for the betterment of the
world; and just as His Holiness Baha'u'llih suffered severe ordeals
and calamities nearly fifty years for you, may you be willing to
undergo difficulties and withstand catastrophes for humanity in
general.
There can be· no true satisfaction or contentment apart from.
the general prosperity.
o people of God! Be pot occupied with yourselves. Be intent
on the betterment of the world and the training of nations. The
betterment of the world .can be accomplished through pure and
excellent deeds and well-approved and agreeable conduct.
The fruits of the tree of man have ever been and are goodly
deeds and a praiseworthy character. Withhold not these fruits
from the heedless. If they be accepted, your end is attained, and

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
the purpose of life achieved. If not, leave them in their pastime
of vain ~ispute~. Strive, 0 people of God, that haply the hearts
of the divers kmdreds of the earth may, through the waters of
your for~earance and loving-kindness, be cleansed and sanctified
from ammosity and hatred, and be made worthy and befitting
recipients of the splendors of the Sun of Truth.
. If thou seekest eternal glory, let thyself be humble and meek
m the presence of the beloved God; make thyself the servant of
all, and serve all ~Iike. The service of the friends belongs to God,
not ~o them. Stnve to become a source of harmony, spirituality,
and Joyfulness to the hearts of the friends.
Be not idle, but active, and fear not.
. If thou seekest after a work which is brighter and more attrac-
tive, sweeter and more delightful than all the affairs it is the
th~alldom in the Threshold of the Almighty and servit~de to His
Highness the Lord of Might.
Ere long the word of God will display a wonderful influence
and ~nally that region (~merica) will become the paradise of
Abha.
~onse~uently, stnve ye bravely that this aim may be
a.ccompltshed III the near future. Striving means this: ye must
Itve and move according to the Divine commands and behests
be united in loving with joy and ecstasy; ., engage contin:
ually in the service of the Cause of God.
TRAINING OF CHILDREN
As to thy question concerning training children: it is incum-
bent upon thee to nurture them from the breast of the love of
God, to urge, them toward spiritual matters, to turn unto God
and to a~quIre good m~n.ner,s, best characteristics and prllise-
worthy ~Irtues a?d qualItIes III the world of humanity, and to
study s~I~nces wIth the utmost diligence; so that they may be·
c?me spmtual? hea~enly and attracted to the fragrances of sanc-
tIty from theIr c~I~dhood and be reared in a religious, spiritual
and ~eavenly trallllllg. Verily I beg of God to confirm them
therelll.
PRACTICAL ApPLICATIONS OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
The beloved of God and the maidservants of the Merciful must
train their children with life and heart and teach them in the
school of virtue and perfection. They must not be lax in this
matter; they must not be inefficient. Truly, if a babe did not
live at all it were better than to let it grow ignorant, for that
innocent babe, in later life, would become afilicted with innum-
erable defects, responsible to and questioned by God, reproached
and rejected by the people. What a sin this would be and what
an omission!
The first duty of the beloved of God and the maid-servants of
the Merciful is this: they must strive by all possible means to
educate both sexes, male and female; girls like boys; there is no
difference whatsoever between them. The ignorance of both is
blameworthy, and negligence in both cases is reprovable. "Are
they who know and they who do not know equal?"
The command is decisive concerning both. If it be considered
through the eye of reality the training and culture of daughters is
more necessary than that of sons, for these girls will come to the
station of motherhood and will mold the lives of the children.
The first trainer of the child is the mother. The babe, like unto a
green and tender branch, will grow according to the way it is
trained. If the training be right, it will grow right, and if
crooked, the growth likewise, and unto the end of life it will
conduct itself accordingly.
Hence, it is firmly established that an untrained and unedu-
cated daughter, on becoming a mother, will be the prime factor
in the deprivation, ignorance, negligence and the lack of training
of many children.
o ye beloved of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful!
Teaching and learning, according to the decisive texts of the
Blessed Beauty (Bahi'u'llih), is a duty. Whosoever is indifferent
therein depriveth himself of the great bounty. Beware! Beware!
that ye fail not in this matter. Endeavor with heart, with life to
train your children, especially the daughters. No excuse is 'ac-
ceptable in this matter.
Th~s may eternal glory and everlasting supremacy, like unto
the mId-day sun, shine forth in the assemblage of the people of
,
'r ,
r
,',
l i
" 1\
,I
f
if
\ ' ,
,',
l~ "
\'1 1

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
BaM, and the heart of 'Abdu'l-Baha become happy and thank-
ful.
Teach your children what hath been revealed through the
Supreme Pen. Instruct them in what hath descended from the
heaven of greatness and power. Let them memorize the Tablets
of the Merciful. .
PRA YERS FOR CHILDREN
o God! Educate these children. These children are the young
trees of Thy orchard, the flowers of Thy meadow, the roses of
Thy garden. Let Thy rain fall upon them; let the Sun of Reality
shine upon them with Thy love. Let Thy breeze refresh them in
order that they may be trained, grow and develop and appear in
the utmost beauty. Thou art the Giver! Thou art the Com-
passionate!
o unequalled Lord! For this helpless child be a protector, for
this weak and sinful one be kind and forgiving.
o Creator! Although we are but useless grass, still we are of
Thy garden; though we are but young trees, bare of leaves and
blossoms, still we are of Thy orchard; therefore nourish this grass
with the rain of Thy bounty; refresh and vivify these young,
languishing trees with the breeze of Thy spiritual springtime.
Awaken us, enlighten us, sustain us, give us eternal life and
accept us in Thy kingdom.
EDUCATION
To acquire knowledge is incumbent on all, but of those
sciences which may profit the people of the earth, and not such
sciences as begin in mere words, and end in mere words. The
possessors of sciences and arts have a great right among the peo-
ple of the world. . . . Indeed, the real treasury of man is his
knowledge. Knowledge is the means of honor, prosperity, joy,
gladness, happiness and exultation.
Now as to what thou hast asked concerning giving up the
~cientific attainment in Paris for the sake of confining thy days to
PRACTICAL ApPLICATIONS OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
the delivery of this Truth, it is indeed acceptable and beloved,
but if thou acquire both it would be better and more perfect,
because in this new century the attainment of science, arts, and
belles lettres whether divine or worldly, material or spiritual, is
a matter which is acceptable before God and a duty which is in-
cumbent upon us to accomplish. Therefore, never deny the
spiritual things to the material, rather, both are incumbent upon
thee. Nevertheless, at the time when thou art working for such
a scientific attainment thou must be controlled by the attraction
of the love of thy Glo~ious Lord and mindful of menti?ning His
splendid Name. This being the case, thou must attam the art
thou art studying to its perfection.
WORK AND WEALTH
Man should know his own self, and know those things which
lead to loftiness or to baseness, to shame or to honor, t9 affluence
or to poverty. After man has realized his own ~eing and beco~e
mature, then for him wealth (or competence) IS needed. If thIS
wealth is acquired through a craft or profession, it is approvable.
In the Baha'i Cause arts, sciences and all crafts are counted as
worship. The man who makes a piece o.f notepa~er to the best of
his ability, conscientiously, concentratmg all hIS forces on per-
fecting it, is giving praise to God. Briefly, all effort put forth by
man from the fullness of his heart is worship, if it is prompted by
the highest motives and the will to do service to humanity. This
is worship: to serve mankind and to minister tothe needs of the
people. Service is prayer .. t' •
True reliance is for the servant to pursue his profession and
calling in this world, to hold fast unto the Lor~, to seek naug~t
but His grace, inasmuch as in His hands is the destiny of all HIS
servan ts.
o My Servant! The best of men are they that earn a livel~­
hood by their calling and spend upon themselves and upon theIr
kindred for the love of God, the Lord of all worlds.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
It behoveth thee to sever thyself from all desires save thy Lord,
the Supreme, expecting no help or aid from anyone in the uni-
verse, not even from thy father or children. Resign thyself to
God! Content thyself with but little of this world's goods!
Verily, economy is a great treasure. If one of thy relations op-
press thee, complain not against him before the magistrate; rather
manifest magnificent patience during every calamity and hard-
ship. Verily thy Master is the Lord of Faithfulness! Forgive and
overlook the shortcomings which have appeared in that one, for
the sake of love and affection. Know that nothing will benefit
thee in this life save supplication and invocation unto God, serv-
ice in His vineyard, and, with a heart full of love, (to) be in
constant servitude unto Him.
o ye that pride yourselves on mortal riches! Know ye in
truth that wealth is a mighty barrier between the seeker and his
desire, the lover and his beloved. The rich, but for a few, shall in
no wise attain the court of His presence nor enter the city of con-
tent and resignation. Well is it, then, with him, who, being rich,
is not hindered by his riches from the eternal kingdom, nor de-
prived by them of imperishable dominion. By the Most Great
Name! The splendor of such a wealthy man shall illuminate the
dwellers of heaven, even as the sun enlightens the people of the
earth!
They who are possessed of riches
must have the utmost
regard for the poor, for great is the honor destined by God for
those poor who are steadfast in patience. By My life! There is no
honor, except what God may please to bestow, that can compare
to this honor. Great is the blessedness awaiting the poor that
endure patiently and conceal their sufferings, and well is it with
the rich who bestow their riches on the needy and prefer them
before themselves.
Please God, the poor may exert themselves and strive to earn
the means of livelihood. This is a duty which, in this most great
Revelation, hath been prescribed unto everyone, and is ac-
counted in the sight of God as a goodly deed. Whoso observeth
PRACTICAL ApPLICATIONS OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
this duty, the help of the invisible One shall most certainly aid
him. He can enrich, through His grace, whomsoever He pleaseth.
He, verily, hath power over all things. . . .
A PRAYER FOR THE NECESSITIES OF LIFE
Lord! Pitiful are we, grant us Thy favor; poor, bestow upon
us a share from the ocean of Thy wealth; needy, do Thou satisfy
us; abased, give us Thy glory. The birds of the air and the beasts
of the field receive their meat each day from Thee and all beings
partake of Thy care and loving-kindness.
Deprive not this feeble one of Thy wondrous grace and vouch-
safe by Thy might unto this helpless soul Thy bounty.
Give us our daily bread and grant Thy increase in the necessi-
ties of life; that we may be dependent on none other but Thee.
may commune wholly with Thee, may walk in Thy ways and de-
clare Thy mysteries. Thou art the Almighty and the Loving and
the Provider of all mankind.
GENEROSITY AND GIVING
o Ye Rich Ones on Earth! The poor in your midst are My
trust; guard ye My trust, and be not intent only on your own
ease.
A man should be a constant source of well-being and a ready
help to prosperity for multitudes of people.
He (the true seeker) should succor the dispossessed, and never
withhold his favor from the destitute. He should show kindness
to animals, how much more unto his fellow-man, to him who is
endowed with the power of utterance.
God does not ask from any soul except according to his
ability ....
Whosoever comes with one good act, God will give him ten-
fold. There is no doubt that the living Lord shall assist and con-
firm the generous soul.
I
~I

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
STRENGTH AND BEAUTY OF CHARACTER
Ask thou God that thou may est attain to the age of maturity
so that thou mayest recognize the beauty and ugliness of deeds
and actions.
His Highness Christ has addressed the world, saying, "Except
ye become as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the
Kingdom" j that is, men must become pure in heart to know God.
. . . The hearts of all children are of utmost purity. They are
mirrors upon which no dust has fallen. But this purity is on
account of weakness and innocence, not on account of any
strength and testing, for as this is the early period of their child-
hood their hearts and minds are unsullied by the world. They
cannot display any great intelligence. They have neither hy-
pocrisy nor deceit. This is on account of the child's weakness
whereas the man becomes pure through his strength. Through
the power of intelligence he becomes simple; through the great
power of· reason and understanding and not through the power
of weakness, he becomes sincere. When he attains to the state of
perfection he will receive these qualities; his heart becomes puri-
fied, his spirit enlightened, his soul is sensitized and tender; all
through his great strength. This is the difference between the
perfect man and the child. Both have the underlying qualities of
simplicity and sincerity.
The source of courage and power is the promotion of the Word
of God, and steadfastness in His Love.
o My Son! The company of the ungodly increaseth sorrow,
whilst fellowship with the righteous cleaneth the rust from off the
heart. He that seeketh to commune with God, let him betake
himself to the companionship of His loved ones; and he that de-
sireth to hearken unto the word of God, let him give ear to the
word of His chosen ones.
3 1
Courtesy is, in truth, a raiment which fitteth all men, wheth~r
young or old. Well is it with him that adorneth his temple there-
with, and woe unto him who is deprived of this great bounty.
PRAC'J'ICAL ApPLICATIONS OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
Moderation is necessary in all affairs. Man must take a lesson
from Divine actions and deeds for God suffers a tree to grow a
long time before it grows to perfection. He is able ~o make a tree
grow to fruition in an instant, but wisdom reqUIres a gradual
development.
The essence of wisdom is the fear of God, the dread of His
scourge and the apprehension of His justice and decree.
This fear (of God) is the chief commander of the army of thy
Lord. Its hosts are a praiseworthy character and goodly deeds.
Through it have the cities of men's hearts been opened through-
out the ages and centuries, and the standards of ascendency and
triumph raised above all other standards.
',1
, !
, :
i
I'
, it
I'
)~
':1
',I
,I

CHAPTER NINE
DETACHMENT AND SACRIFICE
DETACHMENT
W HEN people said to 'Abdu'l-Baha, "We are glad, oh so glad
that you are free," he replied:
"Freedom is not a matter of place, but of condition. I was
hapJ?Y in that prison, for those days were passed in the path of
servIce.
To me prison was freedom.
Troubles are a rest to me.
Dea th is life.
To be despised is honor.
Therefore was I full of happiness all through that prison time.
When one is released from the prison of self, that is indeed
freedom! For self is the greatest prison.
When this release takes place one can never be imprisoned.
Unless one accepts dire vicissitudes, not with dull resignation,
but with radiant acquiescence, one cannot attain this freedom." 1
o My Servant! Free thyself from the fetters of this world, and
lo?se thy soul from the prison of self. Seize thy chance, for it
wtll come to thee no more.
o Befriended Stranger! The candle of thine heart is lighted by
the hand of My power, quench it not with the contrary winds of
self and passion. The healer of all thine ills is remembrance of
Me, forget it not. Make My love thy treasure and cherish it even
as thy very sight and life.
.
o Son of Earth! Wouldst thou have Me, seek none other than
Me; and wouldst thou gaze upon My beauty, close thine eyes to
DETACHMENT AND SACRIFICE
the world and all that is therein; for My will and the will of
another than Me, even as fire and water, cannot dwell together in
one heart.
Detachment is as the sun; in whatsoever heart it doth shine it
quencheth the fire of covetousness and self. He whose sight is
illumined with the light of understanding will assuredly detach
himself from the world and the vanities thereof. • • • Let not
the world and its vileness grieve you. Happy is he whom riches
fill not with vain-glory, nor poverty with sorrow.
The source of all glory is acceptance of whatsoever the Lord
hath bestowed, and contentment with that which God hath
ordained.
That seeker must at all times put his trust in God, must re-
nounce the peoples of the earth, detach himself from the ,,",,:orld
of dust, and cleave unto Him Who is the Lord of Lords ....
(He) should also regard backbiting as grievous error, and keep
himself aloof from its dominion, inasmuch as backbiting quench-
eth the light of the heart, and extinguisheth the life of the soul.
He should be content with little, and be freed from all inordinate
desire. He should treasure the companionship of those that have
renounced the world, and regard avoidance of boastful and
worldly people a precious benefit. . . . He should consume
every wayward thought with the flame of His loving mention,
~
and, with the swiftness of lightning, pass by all else save Him .
. . . He should not hesitate to offer up his life for his Beloved
nor allow the censure of the people to turn him away from the
Truth. He should not wish for others that which he doth not
wish for himself, nor promise that which he doth not fulfil.,
The essence of detachment is for man to turn his face toward
the courts of the Lord, to enter His presence, behold His counte-
nance, and stand as witness before Him.
DETACHMENT NOT ASCETICISM
Disencumber yourselves of all attachment to this world and the
vanities thereof. . . . Beware that ye approach them not, inas-

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
much as they prompt you to walk after your own lusts and
cove tOllS desires, and hinder you from entering the straight and
glorious Path.
Know ye that by the world is meant your unawareness of Him
Who is your Maker, and your absorption in aught else but Him.
The "life to come," on the other hand signifieth the things that
give you a safe approach to God, the All-Glorious, the Incom-
parable. Whatsoever deterreth you, in this Day, from loving
God, is nothing but the world. Flee it that ye may be numbered
with the blest. Should a man wish to adorn himself with the
ornaments of the earth, to wear its apparels, or partake of the
benefits it can bestow, no harm can befall him, if he alloweth
nothing whatever to intervene between him and God, for God
hath ordained every good thing, whether created in the heavens
or in the earth, for such of His servants as truly believe in Him.
Eat ye, 0 people, of the good things which God hath allowed
you, and deprive not yourselves of His wondrous bounties.
Render thanks and praise unto Him, and be of them that are
truly thankful.
The pious practices of the monks and priests among the people
of His Holiness the Spirit (i.e. Christ) are remembered before
God; but in this Day they must abandon solitude for (the society
of men), and engage in that which may profit both themselves
and other men.
It is made incumbent on everyone of you to engage in some
one occupation, such as arts, trades, and the like. We have made
this-your occupation-identical with the worship of God, the
True One. Reflect 0 people, upon the mercy of God and upon
His favors, then thank Him in mornings and evenings.
As to the fact that man must entirely forget himself, by this is
meant that he should arise in the mystery of sacrifice and that is
the disappearance of mortal sentiments and extinction of blam-
able morals which constitute the temporal gloom, and not that
the physical health should be changed into weakness and de-
bilit~
DETACHMENT AND SACRIFICE
THE MYSTERY OF SACRIFICE
The mystery of sacrifice is a most great subject and is inex-
haustible.
Briefly it is as follows: The moth is a sacrific~ to the can~le.
The spring is' a sacrifice to the th~rsty. o~e. T.he S111cere lover IS a
sacrifice to the loved one. The pomt lies m thiS: He must wholly
forget himself .... He must seek the good ple~sure of the True
One' desire the face of the True One; and walk 111 the Path of the
Tru~ One .... This is the first station of sacrifice.
The second station of sacrifice is as follows: Man must become
like unto the iron thrown within the furnace of fire. The quali-
ties of iron such as blackness, coldness and solidity, which belong
to the ear~h, disappear and vanish, while the characteristics of
fire, such as redness, glowing and heat, which ~e1ong to the
Kingdom, become apparent and visible. Ther~f?re Iron ~ath sac-
rificed its qualities and grades to the fire, acqumng the virtues of
that element.
Likewise when the souls are released from the fetters of the
world the 'imperfections of mankind and the animalistic dark-
ness a~d have . . . partaken a share from the outpouring of the
placeless and have acquired Lordly perfections, they are the "ran-
somed ones" of the Sun of Truth. . . .
It is incumbent upon thee, since thou hast attained the know~­
edge of God and His love, to sacrifice ~hy spirit a~d all thy condi-
tions for the life of the world, beanng every difficulty for the
comfort of the souls, sinking to the depth of the sea of ordeals for
the sake of the love of faithfulness. . . .
The mystery of sacrifice i$ that man should sacri~ce all his co~­
ditions for the divine station of God. The station of God IS
mercy, kindness, forgiveness, sacrifice, favo~, grac~ and giving
life to the spirits and lighting the fire of HIS love 111 the hearts
and arteries.
. . . Nearness to God is possible through devotion to Him,
through entrance into the Kingdom, and service to ~uma~ity; it
is attained by unity with mankind and through lov111g-kmdness
I; • ,
i!
:j
'. I
:1
: I
I:
,·1Ii
1·1I:t:
I'
,."
1.1
: i

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
to ~1l; it is dep~ndent upon investigation of truth, acquisition of
praiseworthy virtues, service in the cause of Universal Peace, and
personal sanctification. In a word, nearness to God necessitates
sacrifice of self, severance and the giving up of all to Him. Near-
ness is likeness.
.
~ne of the requirements of faithfulness is that thou mayest
sacrIfice thyself .and, !n the divine path, close thine eye to every
pleasure and stnve With all thy soul that thou mayest disappear
and be lost, like unto a drop, in the ocean of God's love.
Know thou that when the Son of Man yielded up His breath to
~od t~e whole creation wept with a great weeping. By sacrific-
mg Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused into all cre-
ated things. Its evidences, as witnessed in all the peoples of the
earth, are now manifest before thee. The deepest wisdom which
the sages have uttered, the profoundest learning which any mind
hatl~ unfolded, the arts which the ablest hands have produced,
the mfluence exerted by the most potent of rulers, are but mani-
fe~tations of the quickening power released by His transcendent,
HIs all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit.
VICTORY THROUGH DETACHMENT
Therefore, to-day "victory" neither hath been nor will be
opposi.tion to anyone, nor strife with any person; but rather
what IS well-pleasing is that the cities of (men's) hearts, which
are under the dominion of the hosts of selfishness and lust, should
be subdued by the sword of the Word, of wisdom and of exhorta-
tion. Everyone, then, who desireth "victory" must first subdue
the city of his Own heart with the sword of spiritual truth and
o.f the Word, and must protect it from remembering aught be-
sIde God: afterwards let him turn his regards towards the cities
o,f (other's) hearts. This is what is intended by "victory": sedi-
tIon hath never been nor is pleasing to God, and that which cer-
tain ignorant persons formerly wrought was never approved. If
ye be slain for His good pleasure verily it is better for you than
that ye should slay. Today the friends of God must appear in such
DETACHMENT AND SACRIFICE
fashion amidst (God's) servants that by their actions they may
lead all unto the Lord of Glory. I swear by the Sun of the
Horizon of Holiness that the friends of God never have regarded
nor will regard the earth or its transitory riches.
o Son of Being! Thy heart is My ho~e; sanctify ~t for My
descent. Thy spirit is My place of revelatIOn; cleanse It for My
manifestation.
Be not content with the ease of a. passing day, and deprive not
thyself of everlasting rest. Barter not the garden of eternal. de-
light for the dust-heap of a mortal world. Up from thy pnson
ascend unto the glorious meads above, and from thy mortal cage
wing thy flight unto the paradise of the Placeless.
Blind thine eyes, that thou mayest behold My beauty; stop
thine ears that thou mayest hearken unto the sweet melody of My
voice; empty thyself of all learning, that thou ~ayest partake of
My knowledge; and sanctify thyself from nches, that thou
mayest obtain a lasting share from the ocean of My eternal
wealth. Blind thine eyes, that is, to all save My beau~y; stop
thine ears to all save My word; empty thyself of alliearnmg save
the knowledge of Me; that with a clear vision, a pure. heart and
an attentive ear thou mayest enter the court of My hohness.
Man must become evanescent in God, must forget his own
selfish conditions that he may thus arise to the station of sacrifice.
It should be to such a degree that if he sleep, it should not be for
pleasure, but to rest the body in order to do better, to speak
better to explain more beautifully, to serve the servants of God
and t~ prove the truths. When he remains awake, ~e shou~d seek
to be attentive, serve the Cause of God and sacrIfice hiS own
stations for those of God. When he attains to this station, the con-
firmations of the Holy Spirit will surely reach him, and man with
this power can withstand all who inhabit the earth.
Verily, I say, the world is like the v~por in a des~rt, ~hich th.e
thirsty dreameth to be water and s~rIveth after l~ With all hiS
might, until when he cometh unto It, he findeth It to be mere
illusion ....
I
r
f !' t: ,,:
\"',1
! } .
I' I
i
'l.~.
I,
H
i
"!
,
,
I •.,
I
i'·
I
~;
(
j
I i,,·
i
.)

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
o my servants! Sorrow not, if, in these days and on this
earthly plane, things contrary to your wishes have been ordained
and manifested by God, for days of blissful joy, of heavenly de-
light, are assuredly in store for you. Worlds, holy and spiritually
glorious, will be un veiled to your eyes. You are destjned by Him,
in this world and hereafter, to partake of their benefits, to share
in their joys, and to obtain a portion of their sustaining grace.
To each and everyone of them you will no doubt attain.
PRA YERS FOR DETACHMENT
o Lord, help me to be meek and lowly and strengthen me in
severing myself from all things and in holding to the hem of the
garment of Thy Glory, so that my heart may be filled with Thy
love and leave no space for the love of the world and the attach-
ment to its qualities .... Verily, Thou art! merciful and, verily,
Thou art the Generous, the Helper.
... 0 God, my God! Look not upon my hopes and my
doings, nay rather look upon Thy Will that hath encompassed
the heavens and the earth.
He is the Compassionate, the All-Bountiful!
o God, my God! Thou seest me, Thou knowest me; Thou art
my Haven and my Refuge. None have I sought nor any will I
seek save Thee, no path have I trodden nor any will I tread but
the path of Thy love. In the darksome night of despair, mine
eye turneth expectant and full of hope to the morn of Thy
boundless favor, and at the hour of dawn my drooping soul is
refreshed and strengthened in remembrance of Thy beauty and
perfection. He whom the grace of Thy mercy aideth, though he
be but a drop, shall become the boundless ocean, and the merest
atom which the outpouring of Thy loving-kindness assisteth,
shall shine even as the radiant star.
Shelter under Thy protection, 0 Thou Spirit of Purity, Thou
Who art the All-Bountiful Provider, this enthralled, enkindled
servant of Thine. Aid him in this world of being to remain stead-
fast and firm in Thy love and grant that this broken-winged
bird may attain a refuge and shelter in Thy Divine Nest, that
abideth upon the Celestial Tree.
CHAPTER TEN
RECTITUDE AND PURITY
DEEDS MORE POWERFUL THAN WORDS
T
HOU hast said aright, that verily, Abdu'l-Baha looketh to
deeds and not to words. Even as it was said by Christ, "Ye
shall know them by their fruits."
The companions of God are in this day, the lump that must
leaven the peoples of the world. They must show forth such
trustworthiness such truthfulness, and perseverance, such deeds
and character ~hat all mankind may profit by their example.
... Within the very breath of such souls as are pure and sancti-
fied far-reaching potentialities are hidden. So great are these
potentialities that they exercise their influence upon all created
things.
o army of God! Through the protection and help vouch-
safed by the Blessed Beauty, ye must conduct yourselves in such
a manner that ye may stand out distinguished and brillian~ as
the sun among other souls. ,Should anyone of you enter ~ Cl~y,
he should become a center of attraction by reason of hiS Slll-
cerity, his faithfulness and love, his honesty and fidelity, his
truthfulness :md loving-kindness towards all the people of the
world, so that the people of that city cry out and. say: "~his
man is unquestionably a ~ah;l'i, for his m~nne:s? hiS behaVIOr,
his conduct, his morals, hiS nature, and dispOSition reflect the
attributes of the Baha'is.
Beware, 0 people of Baha, lest ye walk in the ways of them
whose words differ from their deeds. Strive that ye may be
•
\
~ ,
f·
"
II!
r.
I
I
I
I
\'
I
I
" I
~
"
~.
'!
'I
~i

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
enabled to manifest to the peoples of the earth the signs of God,
and to mirror forth His commandments. Let your acts be a
guide unto all mankind, for the professions of most men, be
they high or low, differ from their conduct. It is through your
deeds that ye can distinguish yourselves from others. A good
character is, verily, the best mantle from God. With it He
adorneth the temple of His loved ones. By My life! The light
of a good character surpasseth the light of the sun and the
radiance thereof.
One righteous act is endowed with a potency that can so ele-
vate the dust as to pass beyond the heaven of heavens. It can
tear every bond asunder, and hath the power to restore the force
that hath spent itself and vanished .... Be pure, 0 people of
God, be pure; be righteous, be righteous.
HONESTY
Truthfulness is the foundation of all human virtues. Without
truthfulness progress and success, in all the worlds of God, are
impossible for any soul. When this holy attribute is established in
man, all the divine qualities will also be acquired.
You must live and act with the utmost truthfulness, righteous-
ness, chastity, uprightness, purity, sanctity, justice and equity.
But if-I seek refuge in God-anyone betray the least of trusts
or neglect and be remiss in the performance of duties which are
intrusted to him, or by oppression takes one penny of extortion
from the subjects, or seeks after his own personal, selfish aims and
ends in the attainment of his own interests, he shall undoubtedly
remain deprived of the outpourings of His Highness the Al-
mighty! Beware! Beware! lest ye fall short in that which ye are
commanded in this Tablet!
Let truthfulness and courtesy be your adorning. Suffer not
yourselves to be deprived of the robe of forbearance and justice,
that the sweet savors of holiness may be wafted from your hearts
upon all created things.
I,
RECTITUDE AND PURITY
If the whole earth were to be converted into silver and gold,
no man who can be said to have truly ascended into the heaven
of faith and certitude would deign to regard it, much less to
seize and keep it. . . . They who dwell within the tabernacle of
God, and are established upon the seats of everlasting glory, will
refuse though they be dying of hunger to stretch their hands, and
seize unlawfully the property of their neighbor, however vile and
worthless he may be.
JUSTICE AND EQUITY
Turn treachery to trust, slander to brotherly counsel, oppres-
sion to justice, heedlessness to the remembrance of God.
Be fair to yourselves and to others that the evidences of Justice
may be revealed through your deeds among our faithful servants.
Equity is the most fundamental among human virtues. The
evaluation of all things must needs depend upon it .... Ob-
serve equity in your judgment, ye men of understanding heart!
He that is unjust in his judgment is destitute of the character-
istics that distinguish man's station.
The light of men is Justice, quench it not with the contrary
winds of oppression and tyranny. The purpose of justice is the
appearance of unity among men.
Know thou, of a truth, these great oppressions that have befal-
len the world, are preparing it for the advent of the Most Great
Justice. . . .
The sun of Justice hath risen above the horizon of Baha'u'llah.
For in His Tablets the fo'undations of such a justice have been
laid as no mind hath from the beginning of creation conceived.
PURITY
Disencumber yourselves of all attachment to this world and
the vanities thereof. Beware that ye approach them not, inas-
much as they prompt you to walk after your own lusts and

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
cove.tous desires, and hinder you from entering the straight and
glorious Path .... They that follow their lusts and corrupt in-
clinations have erred and dissipated their efforts. They indeed
are of the lost.
o Friends! Prefer not your will to Mine, never desire that
which I have not desired for you, and approach Me not with life-
less hearts defiled with worldly desires and cravings.
Blessed thou art and more blessed thou shalt be if thy feet be
firm, thy heart tranquil through the fragrance of His Holy
Spirit and thy secret and hidden thoughts pure before the Lord
of Hosts.
The civilization so often vaunted by the learned exponents of
arts and sciences, will, if allowed to overleap the bounds of mod-
eration, bring great evil upon men .... If carried to excess,
civilization will prove as prolific a source of evil as it had been of
goodness when kept within the restraints of moderation ....
He hath chosen out of the whole world the hearts of His servants,
and made them each a seat for the revelation of His glory.
Wherefore sanctify them from every defilement, that the things
for which they were created may be eng raven upon them.
o Quintessence of Passion! Put away all covetousness and seek
contentment; for the covetous hath ever been deprived, and the
contented hath ever been loved and praised.
He is not to be numbered with the people of Baha who fol-
loweth his mundane desires, or fixeth his heart on the things of
the earth. He is my true follower who, if he come to a valley of
pure gold, will pass straight through it aloof as a cloud, and will
neither turn back nor pause. Such a man is assuredly of Me.
. . . And if he met the fairest and most comely of women, he
would not feel his heart seduced by the least shadow of desire
for her beauty. Such an one indeed is the creation of spotless
chastity.
They that have tarnished the fair name of the Cause of God by
following the things of the flesh-these are in palpable error!
RECTITUDE AND PURITY
Purity and chastity have been and still are, the most great orna-
ments for the handmaidens of God. . . . The brightness of the
light of chastity sheddeth its illumination upon the worlds of the
spirit.
The drinking of wine is . . . the cause of chronic diseases,
weakeneth the nerves, and consumeth the mind.
Beware lest ye barter the River that is life indeed for that
which the pure-hearted detest. Become yc intoxicated with the
wine of the love of God, and not with that which deadeneth your
minds, 0 ye that adore Him!
+
.1
I: I
;,1
,
. j
" ,.
t
),
i
"

CHAPTER ELEVEN
OBEDIENCE AND HUMILITY
OJ.\EDIENCE TO GOD
KNoW ye that the em?odiment of liberty. and it~ symbol is
the al1lmal. That whIch beseemeth man IS submissIOn unto
such res~raints ~s will protect him from his own ignorance, and
guard hIm agamst the harm of the mischief-maker. Liberty
causeth n;an. to overs:ep th~ bounds of propriety, and to infringe
on the dIgnity of hIs statIOn. It debaseth him to the level of
extreme depravity and wickedness.
Rega.rd men as a flock of sheep that need a shepherd for their
protectIOn. . . .
. The liberty that profiteth you is to be found nowhere except
m complete servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth. Whoso
hath tasted of its sweetness will refuse to barter it for all the
dominion of earth and heaven.
The essence of religion is to testify unto that which the Lord
hath revealed, and follow that which He hath ordained in His
mighty Book.
Jesus answered them and said, "My doctrine is not mine but
His that sent me.
'
If any man shall do His will, he shall know of the doctrine
whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself."
. ~he first ~uty presc~ibed by God for His servants is the recog-
llltIOn of Him Who IS the Day Spring of His Revelation and
the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both
the Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation.
OBEDIENCE AND HUMILITY
It behooveth everyone who reacheth this most sublime
station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every
ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin
duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.
Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of Divine
inspiration.
They whom God hath endued with insight will readily recog-
nize that the precepts laid down by God constitute the highest
means for the maintenance of order in the world and the secur-
ity of its peoples .... We, verily, have commanded you to
refuse the dictates of your evil passions and corrupt desires, and
not to transgress the bounds which the pen of the Most High
hath fixed, for these are the breath of life unto all created
things ....
o ye peoples of the world! Know assuredly that My com-
mandments are the lamps of My loving providence among My
servants, and the feys of My mercy for My creatures. Thus
hath it been sent down from the heaven of the Will of your
Lord, the Lord of Revelation. Were any man to taste the
sweetness of the words which the lips of the All-Merciful have
willed to utter, he would, though the treasures of the earth be
in his possession, renounce them one and all, that he might vindi-
cate the truth of even one of His commandments, shining above
the dayspring of His bountiful care and loving-kindness ....
Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code of
laws. Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice wine with the
.fingers of might and power. To this beareth witness that which
the Pen of Revelation hath revealed. Meditate upon this, 0 men
of insight!
OBEDIENCE THROUGH FEAR AND THROUGH LOVE
Schools must first train the children in the principles of reli-
gion so that the Promise- and the Threat, recorded in the Books
of God, may prevent them from the things forbidden and
adorn them with the mantle of the commandments. But this
in such a measure that it may not injure the children by resulting
in ignorant fanaticism and bigotry.
'I
"
\"
i,I
I·,
:,.J
I.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
The peopl~ of wealth and men of honor and power must have
the ~est P?sslble regard for the respect of Religion. Religion is a
ma,nt,fest lIght and a strong fortress for the protection and tran-
qUIllIty of the people of the world. For the fear of God com-
ma?ds ,peo~le to do that which is just and forbids them that
which IS eVIl. I,f the la~p of religion remain concealed agitation
and anarchy wIll prevail, and the orb of Justice and Equity and
t~e sun of Peace and Tranquillity will be withheld from giving
lIght. Every man of discernment testifies to that which is
(here) me,ntioned.
o Son of Man! Neglect not My commandments if thou
love~t My beauty, and forget not My counsels if thou wouldst
attam My good pleasure.
'
HUMILITY
Verily, through meekness, man is elevated to the heaven of
power; and again pride degrades him t\..' the lowest station of
humiliation and abasement.
,We are all poor at His door, weak before His power, lowly at
HIS threshold, and we possess the power of neither good nor
harm,
He is indeed the Con firmer, the Strengthener, the
Benevolent!
Verily I supplicate God to confirm thee in that which He
desireth, to protect thee from conceit and self-exaltation and
from selfish concerns, to make thee devoted unto Him and
resigned unto Him.
•
10'
If thou art seeking everl;lsting glory, choose humility in the
path of the True One.
o Son of Man! Transgress not thy limits, nor claim that
which beseemeth thee not. Prostrate ~hyself before the Coun-
tenance of thy God, the Lord of might and power.
.0 Son .o~ Man! Hu~ble thyself before Me that I may gra-
clO~sly VISIt thee. ArISe for the triumph of .My cause, that
whIle yet on earth thou mayest obtain the victory.
OBEDIENCE AND HV1rln.ITY
They who are the beloved of God, in whatever place they
gather and whomsoever they may meet, must evince, in their
attitude towards God, and in the manner of their celebration of
His praise and glory, such humility and submissiveness that every
atom of the dust beneath their feet may attest the depth of their
devotion .... They should conduct themselves in such manner
that the earth upon which they tread may never be allowed to
address them such words as these: "I am to be preferred above
you. For witness, how patient I am in bearing the burden which
the husbandman layeth upon me. I am the instrument that cOn-
tinually imparteth unto dl beings the blessings with' which He
Who is the Source of all grace hath entrusted me. Notwithstand-
ing the honor conferred upon me, the unnumbered evidences of
my wealth-a wealth that supplieth the needs of all creation--
behold the measure of my humility, witness with what absolute
submissiveness I allow myself to be trodden beneath the feet of
men ....
Show forbearance and love to one another. Should anyone
among you be incapable of grasping a certain truth, or' be striv-
ing to comprehend it, show forth, when conversing with him, a
spirit of extreme kindliness and good-will. Help him to see and
recognize the truth, without esteeming yourself to be, in the
least, superior to him, or to be possessed of greater endowments.
The whole duty of man in this day is to attain that share of the
flood of grace which God poureth forth for him. Let none, there-
fore, consider the largeness or smallness of the receptacle. The
portion of some might lie in the palm of a man's hand, the por-
tion of others might fill a cup, and of others even a gallon-
measure. . . .
.'
, Beseech ye the one trife God to grant that ye may taste the
savor of such deeds as are performed in His path, and partake of
the sweetness of such humility and submissiveness as are shown
for His sake.
'
If a person humbles himself for the sake of God before the
friends of God, this is humbleness shown to the True One Him-
self; for this is done by the one as consideration of the other's

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
faith in God. Hence to be humble for the sake of God befor~
another means to be humble before God Himself. In this case
if the other does not behave in like manner, or if he shows forth
haughtiness, the discerning man will attain to the loftiness of his
own action and to the reward thereof; while the detriment in the
action of the other will return to the latter himself. Likewise, if
anyone acts with haughtiness, that haughtiness will be directed ,to
the True One.
Beware that ye swell not with pride before God and disdain-
fully reject His loved ones. Defer ye humbly to the faithful,
they that have believed in God and in His signs, whose hearts
witness to His unity, whose tongues proclaim His oneness, and
who speak not except by His leave. Thus do we exhort you with
justice, an~ warn you with truth" lest perchance ye may be
awakened.
If ye meet the abased or down-trodden, turn not away dis-
dainfully from them, for the King of Glory ever watcheth over
them and surroundeth them with 'such tenderness as none can
fathom except them that have suffered their wishes and desires
to be merged in the will of your Lord, the Gracious, the All-
Wise. 0 yerich ones of the earth! Flee not from the face of the
poor that lieth in the dust, nay rather befriend him and suffer
him to recount the tale of the woes with which God's inscrutable
decree hath caused him to be afflicted. By the righteousness of God!
~hilst ye consort with him, the Concourse on high will be look-
mg upon you, will be interceding for you, will be extolling your
,names and glorifying your action. Blessed 'are the learned that
pride not themselves on their attainments; and well is it with the
righteous that mock not the sinful, but rather conceal their mis-
deeds, so that their own shortcomings may remain unveiled to
men's eyes.
o Son of Spirit! Vaunt not thyself over the poor, for I lead
him on his way and behold thee in thy evil plight and confound
thee for evermore.
OBEDIENCE AND HUMILITY
87·
o Son of Beingl How couldst thou forget thine own faults
and busy thyself with the faults of others? Whoso doeth ihis is
accursed of Me.
o Son of Dust! 'Verily I say unto thee: Of all meA the most
negligent is he that disputeth idly and seeketh to advance himself
over his brother.
20,
He (the seeker) must never seek to exalt himself above any
one, must wash away from the tablet of his heart every trace of
pride and vainglory, must cling unto patience and 'resignation,
observe silence, and refrain from idle talk. For the tongue is a
smoldering fire, and ,excess of speech'a deaaly poison. Material
fire consumeth the body, whereas the fire of the tongue de-,
voureth both heart and soul. The force of the former lasteth
but for a time whilst the effects of the latter endure a century. 21 .
The fear of God hath ever been the pr~me factor in the educa';'
tion of His creatures. Well is it with them that have attained
thereunto .... Verily I say: The fear of God hath ever been'
a sure 'defence and a safe stronghold for all the peoples of the
world. It is the chief cause of the protection of mankind, and
the supreme instrument for its preservation.
PRAYERS FOR HUMILITY AND OBEDIENCE
I beseech Thee, 0 Thou who art the Lord of all names, by' Thy
name through which Thou hast subdued all created things, to
graciously aid Thy loved ones ... to fix their gaze at all times
upon Thy'pleasure, and tofyield Thee thanks for the evlderices of
Thine irrevocable decree. For Thou art verily praiseworthy in all
that Thou hast done in the past, or wilt do in the future, and art
to be obeyed in whatsoever Thou hast ~ished or wilt wish, and to'
be loved in all that Thbu hast desired or wilt desire. Thou lookest
upon them that are dear to Thee with the eyes of Thy loving-
kindness, and sendestdown for them only that which will profit
them through Thy grace and Thy gifts.
.!
:1

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
If it be Thy pleasure, make me to grow as a tender herb in the
m~adows of Thy grace, that the gentle winds of Thy will may
stIr me. up and bend me into conformity with Thy pleasure, in
s~ch WIse that my movement and my stillness may be wholly
dIrected by Thee.
24-
Thine is the command at all times, 0 Thou who art the Lord
of all names and mine is resignation and willing submission to
Thy will, 0 Creator of the heavens!
CHAPTER TWELVE
TESTS AND AFFLICTIONS
THOU hast questioned concerning ordeals and dii6culties and
catastrophes: "Are these from God or the result of man's evil
deeds?"
.
Know thou that ordeals are of two kinds: One kind is to test
the soul, and the other is punishmerit for actions. That which is
for testing is educational and developmental and that which is
the punishment of deeds is severe retribution.
The father and the teacher sometimes humor the children and
sometimes discipline them. This discipline is for educational pur-
poses and is indeed to give them true happiness; it is absolute
kindness and true providence. Although in appearance it is
wrath, yet in reality it is kindness. Although outwardly it is an
ordeal, yet inwardly it is purifying water.
Verily, in both cases we must supplicate and implore and com-
mune to the Divine threshold in order to be patient iri ordeals. 1
Tests are benefits from God, for which we should thank Him.
Grief and sorrow do not come to us by chance, they are sent to us
by the Divine. mercy for our own perfecting.
.
While 'a man is happy he may forget his God; but when grief
comes and sorrows overwhelm him, then will he remember
his Father Who is in Heaven, and Who is able to deliver him from
his humiliations.
Men who suffer not, attain rio perfection. The plant' most
pruned by the gardeners is that one which, when the summer
comes, will have the most beautiful blossoms and the mOst
abundant fruit.
The laborer cuts up the earth with his plow, and from that
earth comes the rich and plentiful harvest. The more a man is

THE DIVINE AR.T OF LIVING
chastened, the greater is the harvest of spiritual virtues mown
forth by him. A soldier is no good general until he has been in
the front of the fiercest battle and has received the deepest
wounds.
'2
Does the soul progress more through sorrow or through joy
in this world?
The mind and spirit of man advance when he is tried by suf-
fering .... Just as the plow furrows the earth deeply, puri-
fying it of weeds and thistles, so suffering and tribulation free
man from the petty affairs of this worldly life until he arrives at
a state of complete detachment. His attitude in this world will
be that of divine happiness. Man is, so to speak, unripe; the heat
of the fire of suffering will mature him. Look back to the times
past and you will find that the greatest men have suffered
most ....
Through suffering (one) will attain to an eternal happiness
which nothing can take from him. The Apostles of Christ suf-
fered: they attained eternal happiness ....
To attain eternal happiness one must suffer. He who has
,reached the state of self-sacrifice has true joy. Temporaljoy will
vanish.
Thou hast written concerning the tests that have come upon
thee. To the sincere ones, tests are as a gift from God, the Ex-
alted, for a heroic person hasteneth, with the utmost joy and
gladness, to the tests of a violent battlefield, but the coward is
afraid and trembles and utters moaning and lamentation. Like-
wise, an expert student prepares and memorizes his .lessons and
exercises with the utmost effort, and in the day of examination
he appears with infinite joy before the master. Likewise, the pure
gold shines radiantly in the fire of test. Consequently, it is made
clear that for holy souls, trials are as the gift of God, the
Exalted; but for weak souls they are an unexpected calamity.
This test is just as thou hast written; it removes the rUst of
egotism from the mirror of the heart until the Sun of Truth
may shine therein. For no veil is greater than egotism and no
matter how thin that covering may be, yet it will finally veil
, '>"'"
,,:, ,', ""
...','"••,''''......
,
TESTS AND APPLICnONS
91 '
man entirely and prevent him from receiving a portion from
the eternal bounty.
,
-4
,0 Son of Man! If adversity befall thee not in My path, how
canst thou walk in the ways of them that are content with My
pleasure? If trials afflict thee not in thy longing to meet Me, how
wilt thou attain the light in thy love for My beauty?
.' 5
o Son of Man! My calamity is My providence, outwardly it is
fire and vengeance, but inwardly it is light and mercy. flasten
thereunto that thou mayest become an eternal light and an im-
mortal spirit. This is My command unto thee, do thou observe
it.
TESTS DISTINGUISH THE SINCER.E
As to trillis (tests in the path of God), verily they are neces-
sary. Hast thou not heard and read how there appeared trials
from God in the days of Jesus, and thereafter, and how the whirl-
wind of tests became severe? Even the glorious Peter was not
rescued from the flame of trials, and wavered. Then he repented
and mourned the mourning of a bereaved one. . . _. Is it then
possible to be saved from the trials of God? No, verily. There
is a great wisdom therein of which no one is aware save the wise
and knowing.
Were it not for tests, genuine gold could not br distinguished
from the counterfeit. Were it not for tests, the courageous could
not be known 'from the coward. Were it not for tests, the people
of faithfulness could not be knowri from the people of selfishness.
Were it not for' tests, the,.intellects and faculties of the scholars
in the great colleges would not be developed. Were it not for
tests, the sparkling gems could not be known from worthless
pebbles. Were it not for tests, the fisherman could not be dis,-
tinguished from Annas and Caiaphas, who had great' worldly
dignity.
"
Were. it not for tests the face of Mary Magdalene would not
glisten with the light of firmness and certainty unto all the .
'horizons. These are some of the mysteries of tests which We have
I'
,,-:-;'i'
,
.,".
,
• \.
~" J. ; ..... \."" ... ' .•
'-
.
..
.....
~H -",,." ~.>"I

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
un~olded to t~ee that thou mayest become cognizant of the mys-
tenes of. God 10 every cycle. Verily I pray God to -illumine the
faces as pure gold in the fire of tests.,
'
Anybody can be happy in the state of cOIIlfort, ease, health,
~uccess, pleasure and joy; but if one can be happy and contented
10 t~~ ttme of trouble, hardship and disease, ~t is the proof of
nobtltty.
-
The souls who bear the tests of God become the manifestations
of great bounties; for the divine trials cause some souls to become
entirely lifeless, while they cause the holy souls to ascend to the
highest degree of love and firmness. They cause progress and they
also cause retrogression.
But for tribulations, how could the assured be distinguished
from the doubters among Thy serv~nts?
10·
How many the leaves which the tempests of trials have caused
to fall, and how many, too, are those which, clinging tenaciously
to the tree of Thy Cause, have remained unshaken by the tests
that have assailed them, 0 Thou Who art .our Lord the Most
Merciful!
FRUITS OF TESTS AND AFFLICTIONS
Do ye not look upon the beginning of affairs; attach your
hearts to the ends and results. The present period is like unto the
sowing time. Undoubtedly it is impregnated with perils and
difficulties, but in the future many a harvest shall be g·athered,
and benefits and results will become apparent. When one con-
siders the issue and the end, inexhaustible joy and happiness will
dawn.
Everything of importance in this world demands the close
attention of its seeker. The one in pursuit of anything must un-
dergo difficulties and hardships until the object in view is attained
a~d ,the great Success is obtained. This is the case of things per-
tatntng to the world. How much higher is that which ~oncerns
the Supreme Concourse! That Cause involves every favor, glory
and eternal bliss in the world of God.
TESTS AND AFFLICTIONS
As to the subject of babes and infants and weak ones who are
afflicted by the hands of oppressors: this contains great wisdom
and this subject is of paramount importance. In bri~£, for those.
souls there is a recompense in another world and many details
are connected with this matter. For those S9uls that suffering is
the greatest mercy of God. Verily that mercy of the Lord is far
better and preferable to all the comfort of this world and the
growth and development of this place of mortality.
DIVINE ASSISTANCE
Be not grieved if affairs become difficult and troubles wax
intense on all sides! Verily, thy Lord. changeth hardship into
facility, troubles into ease and afflictions into greatest com-
posure.
If thy daily living become difficult, soon (God) thy Lord will
bestow upon thee that which will satisfy thee. Be patient in the
time of affliction and trial, endure every difficulty and hardship
with a dilated heart, attracted spirit and eloquent tongue in re-
membrance of the Merciful. Verily this is the life of satisfaction,
the spiritual existence, heavenly repose, divine benediction and the
celestial table! Soon thy Lord will extenuate thy straitened cir-
cumstances even in this world.
Be patient under all conditions, and place your whole trust and
confidence in God.
Be generous in prosperity and thankful in adversity.
Blessed are they wh~ cqnsider all in the world as non-existent
and nothing before the mention of the King of Pre-existence;
and who so adhere unto the Firm Handle of God that neither
doubts nor evil suggestions, nor swords and cannon, can withhold
or deprive them! Blessed are the steadfast; blessed are the
firm!
If anyone revile you, or trouble touch you, in the path of'God,
be patient, and. put your trust in Him Who heareth, Who
seeth.

THE' DIVINE ART OF LIVING
• Armed with the power of Thy name nothing can ever hurt
?te and .with Thy love in my heart all the world's afflictions can
In no wise alarm me.
. W~os<;>ever, 0 my Lord, is impatient in the tribulations befall-
Ing him In Thy path, hath not drunk of the cup of Thy love nor
tasted of the sweetness of Thy remembrance.
Aware as I am, 0 my God, that Thou wilt send down upon
Thy servants only what is good for them, I nevertheless beseech
Thee, ~y T~y name which overshadoweth all things, to raise up,
for their assistance and as a sign of Thy grace and as an evidence
of Thy .power, those who will keep them safe from alI their
adversarxes.
Potent art Thou to do .Thy pleasure. Thou art, verily, the
Supr~IJ?e Ruler, the Almighty, the Help in Peril, the Self-
SubsistIng.
'
I fe~r no tri~ulation in His path, nor a~y affliction in My love
for Hll~. Verxly God hath made adverSity as a morning dew
upon HIS green pasture, and a wick for His lamp which lighteth
earth and heaven.
A PRA YER FOR PROTECTION AND PRESER VA TION IN TESTS
AND AFFLICTIONS
~ my Lord! .~hou knowest that the people are encircled with
paIn and cala~ltles and are environed with hardships and trou-
bles: E~ery: trxal doth attack man and every dire adversity doth
assail him hke unto the assault of a serpent. There is no shelter
and asyl~m for him except under the wing of Thy protection,
preservatIOn, guard and custody.
o Thou the Merciful One! 0 my Lord! Make Thy protection
my armory, Thy preservation my shield, humbleness before the
door of Thy Oneness my guard, and Thy custody and defense
my fortress and IJ?Y abode. Preserve me from the suggestions
o~ myself and deSire and guard me from every sickness, trial,
difficulty and ordeal.
TESTS AND AFFLICTIONS
Verily, Thou art the Protector, the Guardian, the Preserver,
the Sufficer, and verily Thou art the Merciflll of the MOst
~~~!
~
How BAHA'U'LLAH AND 'ABDU'L-BAHA MET AFFLICTIONS
Though my bOdy be 'pained by the trials that befall me from
Thee, though it b~ afflicted by the revelations of Thy Decree, yet
my soul rejoiceth at having partaken of the wa.ters of Thy
Beauty, and at having attained the shores of the ocean of Thine
eternity. Doth it become a lover to flee from his belov~d, or. to.
desert the object of his heart's desire?' Nay; we alI'~lieve in
Thee, and eagerly hope to enter Thy presence:
Ye have expressed words of solicitude and an1lciety over the
troubles and persecutions which have befalIen this imprisoned
one. Do not be, at all sad, be ye not affected .••. Persecutions
and adversities are merciful gifts. • ~ • Through the appearan~
of tests, my heart IS consoled, and through the experiencing of
dire afflictions my soul is calmed.
26,
o th~u friend! Be not,sorrowful because of my imprisonment
and lament not over my difficulties; nay, rather, ask Godto in-.
crel!se my hardship in Hispath,.for therein lies a wisdom which
none are able to comprehend save the near angels.
.
.' 27
Thou hast manifested joy at the freedom of 'Abdu'l-Baha.
This happiness came from thy great love. There is no doubt that
the friends have become joyful on account of the liberation ~f
'Abdu'l-Baha. But I wasfhankful for this prison in the path of
God, and the lack of liberty was very pleasing to me, for those
days were passed in the path of the love of God with the utmost
difficulty and trials, bearing fruits and results. Unless one accept
suffering, undergo trials. and endure vicissitudes he will reap no .
reward nor ~ill he attain success and prosperity.
. !
.,
i , ..
i
,j
·1
I
... 1
..
" .• '~, ~;..' ~1
•. m . __ .. .oJ. • . J.
.~,., .. ,., , ........ ~ ...... ,",.., .,'~ M'_ ..... ~·.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
LEARNING TO KNOW AND LOVE GOD
T!iE NECESSITY OF KNOWING AND LOVING GOD
Q
uestion.-Those who are blessed with good actions and uni-
versal benevolence, who have praiseworthy characteristics,
who act with love and kindness towards all creatures, who care for
the poor, and who strive to est~blish unive~sal peace---:wha.t need
have they of the. Divine teachmgs? o~ whIch the~ ~hmk Indeed
that they are independent? What IS the condItIOn of these
people?
'.
.
Answer.-Know that such actIOns, such efforts, and such
words are praiseworthy and approved, and ar~ the glory of
humanity. But these actions alone are ~ot SUffi.CI~~t; they are a
body of the greatest lovelines.s, b~t wIthout SpIrIt. No? t,Pat
which is the cause of everlastIng hfe, eternal honor, unIversal
enlightenment, real salvation and prosperity, is, first of all, th.e
knowledge of God. It is known that the knowle~ge of God IS
beyond all knowledge,. a~d it is the greatest glory ~f the hUI?an
world. For in the eXIstIng knowledge of the realIty of thIngs
there is ma~erial advantage, and through it outward civilization
progresses; but the knowledge of Go~ is the cause. of spiritual
progress and attraction, a~d thr~u~h It .t~e. pe~ceptl(~n of truth,
the exaltation of humanIty, dIVIne cIvIhzatIon, rIghtness of
morals and illumination, are obtained. .
.
Secondly comes the love of God, the light of which shines in
the lamps of the hearts of th~se who know G?d; its brilli~nt rays
illuminate the horizon and gIve to man the hfe of the K.ingd~.
In truth, the fruit of human existence is the love of God, for thIS
LEARNING TO KNOW AND LOVE GOD
love is the spirit of life, and the eternal bounty. If the lov~ of
God did not exist, the hearts· of men would be dead, and dep,rlved
of the sensations of existence; if the love of God· did not exist,
spiritual union would be lost; if the love of God did not exist,
the light of unity would not illwninate huma~ty; if the love of
God did not exist, the East and West, like two lovers would not
embrace each other; if the love of God did not exist; division and
disunity would not be changed into fraternity; if the love of God
did not exist, indifference would not end in affection; if the love
of God did not exist the stranger_would not become the friend.
The love of the human world has shone forth from the love of
God, and has appeared by the bounty and grace of God.
It is clear that the reali~y of mankind is diverse, that opinions
are various and sentiments different; and this difference of
opinions, of thoughts, of intelligence, of sentiments among the
human species, arises from essential necessity; for the differences
in the degrees of existence of cr~atures is ,one of the necessities of
existence, which unfolds itself in infinite forms. Therefore we
have need of a general power which may dominate the senti-
ments, the opinions, and the thoughts of all, thanks to which
these divisions may no longer have effect, and all individuals may
be brought under the influence of the unity of the world of
humanity. It is clear and evident that this greatest power in the
human world is the love of God. It brings the different people
under the shadow of the tent of affection; it gives to the antago-
nistic and hostile nations and families the greatest love and
union.
There are four kinds,.,>f love. The first is the love that flows
from God to man; it consists of the inexhaustible graces, the
Divine effulgence and heavenly illumination. Through this love
the world of being receives·1ife. Through this love man is en:"
dowed with physical existence, until, through the breath of the
'Holy Spirit-this same love-he receives eternal life and becomes
the image of the Living God. This love is the origin of all the
love in the world of creation.
The second is the love that flows from man to God. This is
".~
.. ~

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
~aith, attr~ction to the Divine, enkindlement, progress, entrance
mto the Kmgdom of God, receiving the bounties of God illumina-
tion with the lights of the Kingdom. This love is the o;igin of all
philanthropy; this love causes the hearts of men to reflect the rays
of the Sun of Reality.
The third is the love of God towards the Self or Identity of
G~d. Th~s is the transfiguration of His Beauty, the reflection of
HImself 10 the mirror of His creation. This is the Reality of
Love, the Ancient Love, the Eternal Love. Through one ray of
this Love all other love exists.
The fourth is the love of man for man. The love which exists
between the hearts of believers is prompted by the ideal of the
unity of spirits. This love is attained through the knowledge of
God, so that men see the Divine love reflected in the heart. Each
sees in the other the beauty of God reflected in the soul, and, find-
ing this point of similarity, they are attracted to one another in
love. This love will make all men the waves of one sea. This love
will make them all the stars of one heaven and the fruits of one
tree. This love will. bring the realization of true accord, the
foundation of real unity.
But the love which sometimes exists between friends is not
(true) love, because it is subject to transmutation; this is merely
fascination. As the breeze blows, the slender trees yield. If the
wind is in the east, the tree leans to the west, and if the wind is
in the west, the tree leans to the east. This kind of love is origi-
nated by the accidental conditions of life. ' This is not love, it is
merely acquaintanceship; it is subject to change.
Today you will see two souls apparently in dose friendship;
tomorrow all this may be changed. Yesterday they were ready to
die for one another, today they shun one another's society; This
is not love; it is the yielding of the hearts to the accidents of life.
When that which has caused this "love" to exist passes, the love
passes also; this is not in reality love.
Love is only of the four kinds I have explained. (a) The love
of God towards the identity of God. Christ has said God is love.
(b) The love of God for His children (for His servants). (c)
The love of man for God and, (d) The love of man for man.
LEARNING TO KNOW AND LOVE GOD
These four kinds of love originate from God. These are rays
from the Sun of R,eality; these are the breathings of the Holy
Spirit; these are ,the signs of the Reality.
Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth
therein) He, through the direct operation of His unconstrained
and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique distinc-
tion and capacity to know Him and to love Him-a capacity
that must needs be regarded as the generating impulse and the
primary purpose underlying the whole of creation ..•. Upon
the inmost reality of each and every created thing He hath shed
the light. of one of His names, and made it a recipient of one of
His attributes. Upon the reality of man, however, He hath
focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and made
it a mirror of His own Self. Alone of all created things man hath
been singled out for so great a favor, so enduring a bounty.
Is it not astonishing that although man has been created for
the knowledge and love of God, for the virtues of the human
world, for spirituality; heavenly illumination and life eternal,
nevertheless he continues ignorant and negligent of all this? Con-
sider how he seeks knowledge of everything except knowledge of
God. For instance, his utmost desire is to penetrate the mysteries
of the lowest strata of the earth. Day by day he strives to know:
wha~ can be found ten meters below the surface, what he can
discover within the stone, what he can learn by archaeological
research in the dust. He put forth arduous labors to fathom ter·
restrial mysteries, but is not at all concerned about knowing the
mysteries of the Kingdom, traversing the illimitable fields of the
eternal world, becoming in:formed of the divine realities, discov-
ering the secrets of God, attaining the knowledge of God, wit-
nessing the splendors of the Sun of Truth and realizing the glories
of ~verlasting life. . . . How much he is attracted to the mys-
terIes of matter and how completely unaware he 'is of the
mysteries. of divi?ity .... It is as if a kind and loving father
had provIded a hbrary of wonderful books for his son in order
that he might be infoQIled of ,the mysteries of creation 'at the
same time surrounding him with every means of comf~rt and
',",1
;.l
I
,
:i
!
",' .,' ~ .. , .. , "" ........ "".">,;;~.,, ;,.;.;,: .• ..:j

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
enjoyment; but the son amuses himself with pebbles and play-
thIngs, neglectful of all his father's gifts and provision. . . .
. '. . ?ay and night you must strive that you may attain to
th.e ~I~mficanc~s of the .heavenly Kingdom, perceive the signs of
Dlvlmty, acquIre certaInty of knowledge and realize that this
world has a Creator, a Vivifier, a Provider, an Architect-know-
i~~ ~his through proofs and evidences and not through suscepti-
bllmes-nay, rather through decisive arguments and real vision;
that is to say, visualizing it as. clearly as the outer eye beholds
the sun.
o th~u son of the Kingdom! If one possesses the love of God
~ver?'thIng that he undertakes is useful, but if the undertaking
IS WIthout the love of God, then it is hurtful and the cause of
veiling oneself from the Lord of the Kingdom. But with the love
of God every ~itterness i~ changed into ~weetness and every gift
becometh precIOus. For Instance, a musIcal and melodious voice
imparteth life to an attracted heart, but lureth toward lust those
souls who are engulfed in passion and desire.
. With ~he love o~ God all sciences are accepted and beloved, but
w~thout. It ~re frUItless; nay~ rather, the cause of insanity. Every
sCIence IS lIke unto a tree; If the fruit of it is the love of God
that is a blessed tree. Otherwise it is dried wood and finally ~
food for fire.
LEARNING TO KNOW GOD
(The) energies with which the Day Star of Divine bounty and
s?urce of heaven~y ~ui~ance hath endowed the reality of man
he ... latent WIthIn hIm even as the flame is hidden within the
candle and the rays of light are potentially present in the lamp.
The radiance of these energies may be obscured by worldly de-
sires even as the light of the sun can be concealed beneath the
dust and dross which cover the mirror. Neither the candle nor
the lamp can be lighted through their Own unaided efforts nor
can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself from its dross.
It is clear and evident that until a fire is kindled the lamp will
never bu ignited, and unless the dross is blotted out from the
LEARNING TO KNOW AND LOVE GOD
face of the mirror it can never represent the image of the sun nor
reflect its light and glory::
'.'
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind
the one true God with His creation, and no resemblance whatever,
can exist between the transient and the Eternal, the contingent .
and the Absolute, He hath ordained that in every age and dis-
pensation a pure and stainless Soul be mad~ manifest in. the king-
doms of earth and heaven .... These Essences of Detachmertt,
these resplendent Realities are th~. ~annels of G~d',S,~-p.~r.vasiy<;
grace. led by the light of unfailing guidance, and invested with
supreme sovereignty, they are commissioned to use the inspiration
of their words, the effusions of their infallible 'grac;:e and the
sanctifying breeze of their Revelation for the cleansing of every
longing heart and receptive spirit from the dross and dust of
earthly cares and limitations. Then, and only then, will the Trust
of God,' latent in the reality of man, emerge, as resplendent as
the rising Orb of Divine Revelation, from behind the veil of
concealment, and implant the ensign of its revealed glory upon
the summits of men's hearts.
The knowledge of the Reality of Divinity is impossible and
unattainable, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of God
is the knowledge of God, for the bounties, splendors, and divine
attributes are apparent in them. Therefore if man attains to. the
knowledge of the Manifestations of God, he will attain to the
knowledge of God; and if he be neglectful of the knowledge of
the Holy Manifestations, he will be bereft of the knowledge of
God. It is then ascertained and proved that the Holy Manifes-
tations are the center of the bounty, signs, and perfections of
God. Blessed are those who receive the light of the divine boun-
ties from the enlightened Dawning-points.
. 7
He hath called into being His creatures, that they~y know
Him Who is the Compassionate, the All-Merciful. . Unto the
cities of all nations He hath sent His Messengers, Whom He hath
commissioned to announce unto men tidings of the Paradise of
His good pleasure, and to draw them nigh unto the Haven of
~
.
.'t',l
.''';' .
.
~~)'
.. ' .
. '.~
"'
..
" , .. 't
,
'
',.
("1
... 1';,: .... (
.: • .r •.•
,::.., .. ,
,>, .r~~i"j; ... ,j~ ... ,...-.\ I, .~.!'~ !":';'.' ~I"\." ~I' J',:~~,~~~l

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
abiding security, the Seat of e~ernal holiness and transcendent
glory.
In the past they that were the daysprings and mines of wisdom
in no wise ignored its ultimate Cause or denied its Fountain and
Source ....
Remarkable and far-reaching as the intellectual and industrial
accomplishments of the leaders of thought have been in modern
times, yet to every discerning observer it is clear and manifest
that they have derived the greatest part of their knowledge from
the.sages of the past .... These sages of 9ld in their turn acquired
theIr knowledge from the Prophets of God, for these verily were
the Manifestations of Divine Wisdom and the Revealers of
heavenly mysteries.
Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, thatye may
unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that
lie hid in its depths.
The source of all learning is the knowledge of God, exalted be
His Glory, and this cannot be attained save through the knowl-
edge of His Divine Manifestation.
II
Ponder God in your heart, reflect on His Manifestations, and
be not of them that are void of understanding.
Turn to God, supplicate humbly at His threshold, seeking
assistance and confirmation, that God may rend asunder the
veils that obscure your vision. Then will your eyes be filled with
illumination, face to face you will behold the reality of God and
your heart become completely purified from the dross of ignor-
ance, reflecting the glories and bounties of the kingdom.
Goo's LOVE FOR US
o Son of Man! Veiled in My immemorial being and in the
ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My Love for Thee; there-
fore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine image and
revealed to thee My beauty.
I
•
LEARNING TO KNOW AND LOVE GOD
What outpouring flood can compare with, the stream .of His
all-embracing grace, and what blessing can excel the, eVIdences
of so great and pervasive a mercy? There can. be no doubt wh~.t-,
ever that if for one moment the tIde of . HIS mercy and grace
were to be withheld from the world, it would completely perish.
For this reason, from the beginning that hath no beginning the
portals of Divine mercy have been flun~ op~n to ~he face of
all created things, and the clouds of Truth will contInue to ?te
end that hath no end to rain on the soil of human capaCIty,
reality and personality their favors and.bounties~ Su~ hath been
God's method continued from everlastIng to everlastIng~
Thou art, in truth, He Whose mercy hath encompassed all the
worlds, and whose grace hath embraced all that dwell on earth
and in heaven. Who is there that hath cried after Thee, and whose
prayer hath remained unanswered? Where is he to be found
who hath reached forth towards Thee, and whom Thou hast
failed to approach? Who is he that Can claim to have fixed his
gaze upon Thee, and toward whom the eye of Thy loving-kind-
ness hath not been directed? I bear witness that Thou hast turned
toward Thy servants ere they had turned toward Thee, and hadst
remembered them ere they had remembered Thee. All grace is
Thine, 0 Thou in Whose hand is the kingdom of Divine gifts
and the source of every irrevocable decree.
... The manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at .
all times through the Manifestations of His Divine Essence,
encompa;sed the earth 'and all that dwell therein. Not for a
moment hath His grace been with~eld, nor ha~e the showers of
His loving-kindness ceasea to rain upon mankInd.
Consider to what extent the love of God makes itself manifest.
Among the signs of His love which appear in the.wor!d are the
dawning-points of His Manifestations. What an Infimte de~ree
of love is reflected by the divine Manifestations t?~ard mankl!ldl
For the sake of guiding the people they have WIllIngly forfeIted
their lives to resuscitate' human hearts. They have accepted the
cross. To enable human souls to attain the supreme degree of .
' . . ,

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
advancement, they have suffered during their limited years
extreme ordeals and difficulties. . . .
Observe how rarely human souls sacrifice their pleasure or
comfort for others; how improbable that a man would offer his
eye or suffer himself to be dismembered for the benefit of an-
other. Yet all the divine Manifestations suffered, offered their
lives and blood, sacrificed their existence, comfort and all they
possessed for the sake of mankind. Therefore consider how much
they love. Were it not for their love for humanity, spiritual
love would be mere nomenclature .. Were it not for their illumi-
nation, human souls would not be radiant. How effective is their
love! This is a sign of the love of God; a ray of the Sun of
Reality.
'18
LEARNING TO LOVE GOD
. To the heaven of Thy loving-kindness lift me up, 0 my Quick-
ener, and unto the Day Star of Thy guidance lead me, 0 Thou
my Attractor!
The essence of love is for man to turn his heart to the Bel~ved
One, and sever himself from all else but God, and desire nought
save that which is the desire of his Lord.
.
Help me to guard the pearls of Thy love which by Thy decree,
Thou hast enshrined within my heart.
Let the flame of the love of God burn brightly within your
radiant hearts. Feed it with the oil of Divine guidance, and
protect it within the shelter of your constancy. Guard it within
the globe of trust and detachment from all else but God, so that
the evil whisperings of the ungodly may not extinguish its light.
o My servants! My holy, My divinely ordained Revelation may
be likened unto an ocean in whose depths are concealed innumer-
able pearls of great price, of surpassing luster. 'It is the duty of
every seeker to b.estir himself and strive to obtain the shores of
this ocean, so that he may, in proportion to the eagerness of his
search and the efforts he hath exerted, partake of such benefits
as have been preordained in God's irrevocable and hidden
Tablets.
I
'1
LEARNING ,!O KNOW AND LOVE 'GOD
10,5
Know verily nothing will benefit a person save the love of t~e
Merciful One. Nothing illuminates a man's heart save the radI-
ance which shines forth from the Kingdom,of God I Put away
every thought and doubtful mentioning 'and keep thy th(i)ug~ts
entirely on that which uplifts man to the heaven of the gift
of God. . . .
.
WHAT THE LOVE OF GOD BRINGS TO US
o Son of Man! I loved thy creation, hence I created thee.
Wherefore, do' thou' love Me that I may name thy name and fill
thy soul with the spirit of life.
2:"1-
o Son of Man! Love Me that I may love thee. If thou lovest
Me not, My love can_ in no wise reach thee. Know this, ()
servant.
o Son of Being! My love is my stronghold; he that entereth
therein shall be safe and secure, and he that turneth away shall
surely stray and perish.
o Son of Utterance! Thou art My stronghold; enter therein
that thou mayest abide in safety. My love is in thee, know it;
that thou mayest find Me nigh unto thee.
o Befriended Stranger! The healer of all thy ills is thy re-
membrance of Me, forget it not. Make My love thy all-precious
treasure and cherish. it even as thine own sight and life.
.
.
The day is approaching when the intervening clouds will have
been completely dissipated, when the light of the words, "All
honor belongeth unto God and unto them that love. Him" will
have appeared, as manifest as the sun, above the horizon of the
Will of the Almighty.
PRA YERS FOR ATTAINING THE KNOWLEDGE AND
THE LOVE OF GOD
o Thou kind God! 'To me Thou art.kinder than myself, and
Thy love is more abundant and more ancient. Whenever I am
,.1 .. '
.j>, •
. ;' ..
','
. ,'.'

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
reminded of T~y bestowals, I am made happy and hopeful. If
I ,have been agitated, I obtain ease of heart and soul. If I am
disloyal, I become loyal. If I have been hopeless, I become hope-
ful. 0 Thou Lord of the Kingdom! Cause Thou the rejoicing
of my heart; empower my weak spirit and strengthen my
exhausted ne,rves, Illumine Thou mine eyes; suffer my ears to
b~come hearIng, so that I may hearken to the music of the
Kmgdom and attain to the joy and happiness everlasting. Verily,
Thou art the Generous, the Giver, and the Kind!
. 30
,0 Thou forgiving Lord! These servants are turning to Thy
km?dom and seeking Thy grace and bounty. 0 God! Make
their hearts good ax:d pure in order that they may become worthy
of Thy love. PUrIfy and sanctify the spirits that the light of
the Sun of Reality may shine through them. Purify and sanctify
the eyes ~hat they may perceive Thy lights. Purify and sanctify
the ears, m or?er that they may hear the call of Thy kingdom.
o Lord, VerIly we are weak, but Thou art mighty. Verily we
are poor but Thou art rich. We are seekers, but Thou art the
One sought. 0 Lord! Have compassion upon us and forgive
us; bestow, upon us capacity and readiness in order that we may
b~ respon~Ive to Thy favors, attracted to Thy kingdom, en-
kmdled wIth the fire of Thy love and resuscitated through the
breaths of Thy Holy Spirit in this radiant century. Thou art
powerful; Thou art most generous.
3 I
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
LOVE AND UNITY
T
HE prophets of God one and all, Christ Himself as well as
the Blessed Beauty (Baha'u'llah), have all appeared and raised
the call with the one purpose of transforming the world of man
into the Kingdom of God. Their common aim was to turn the
earthly into heavenly, darkness into light, things that are satanic
into things Divine. They strove to establish the reign of har-
mony and love amongst the children of men, to unfold to their
eyes the fundamental unity of all mankind, to demolish the foun-
dations of differences in the world, and to confer upon it the
imperishable blessings of eternal life.
o thou honored one! Ponder in thine heart the world of
being. Association, harmony and union are the source of life,
whilst differences and division are the cause of ultimate destruc-
tion. Shouldst thou reflect on all created things, thou '!I'ilt observe
that the existence of every being dependeth upon the association
and combination of divers elements the disintegration of which
will terminate the. existence of that being .
. . . This mutual helpfulness is realized either directly or
through mediation, and if, for the twinkling of an eye, this con-
firmation and assistancecloes not descend upon the living being,
it will become non-existent, for .all the existing things are linked
together and draw help from each other. Therefore the greatest
foundation of the world of existence is this cooperation and
mutuality.
Liken the world of existence to the temple of man. All the
limbs and organs of the human body assist one another; therefore
life continues. When, in this wonderful organism, there is a·
disconnection, life is changed to death and the parts of the body
" "

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
disintegrate. Likewise, among the parts of existence there is a
wonderful con.nection and interchange of forces, which is the
cause of the lIfe of the world and the continuation of these
countless ,Phenomena. Wh~n one considers the living beings and
the grOWIng plants, he reahzes that the animals and man sustain
lif~ by inhaling t?e emanations from the vegetable world, and
thIs . . . element IS called oxygen. The vegetable kingdom also
draws life from the living creatures in the substance called
~arbo~. In brie~, the beings of sensation draw life frorp. the grow-
Ing .b~Ings and In turn the growing things receive life from the
senSItIve creatures. Therefore this interchange of forces and
intercommunication is continued and uninterrupted.
,From this illustration one can see the base of life is this mutual
aid' and helpfulness, and the cause of destruction and non-
existence would be the interruption of this mutual assistance.
The more the world aspires to civilization the more this most
important matter of cooperation becomes manifest. Therefore
in t~e world. of humanity one sees this ma'tter of he'pfulness
attaIn to a hIgh degree of efficiency; so much so that the con-
tinuance of humanity entirely depends upon this interrelation. 1
.Know ~hou of a cert~inty ~hat Love is the secret of God's holy
DIspensatIOn, the mamfestatIOn of the All-Merciful, the foun-
tain of spi.ritual outpourings. Love is heaven's kindly light, the
Holy Spint's eternal breath that vivifies the human soul. Love
is the cause of God's revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent
according to Divine creation, in the realities of things. Love i~
the one means that insures true felicity both in this world and
t~e next. L~ve is the lig?t that guideth in darkness, the living
hnk t~at u~l1teth God wIth. man, that assureth the progress of
every IllumIned soul. Love IS the most great law that ruleth this
mighty and heavenly Cycle, the unique power that bindeth
together the divers elements of this material world, the supreme
magnetic. force that directs the movements of the spheres in
the celestIal realms. Love revealeth with unfailing and limitless
~ower the mysteries latent in the universe. Love is the spirit of
hfe unto the adorned body of mankind, the establisher of true
\
,.J;
LOVE AND UNITY
civilization in this mortal world, and the shedder of imperishable
glory upon every high..;aiming race and nation.
.
.
Whatsoever people is graciously favored therewIth by God, ItS
name shall surely be magnified and extolled by the ~!;lcourse
from on high, by, the company of angels, and thede~lzens of
the Abha kingdom., And whatsoever pe~ple turneth ItS. heart
away from this Divine love-the revelatIOn of the Merclful-
shall err grievously, shall fall in despair, and be utterly destroyed.
That people shall be denied all refuge, shall become ev~n ag the
vilest creatures of the eart;h, victims of degradation and sh~me.
o ye beloved of the Lord! Strive .to bec?methe x:n~nifestatlons
of the love of God, the lamps of DiVIne gUIdance shining amongst,
the kind reds of the earth with the light of love and concord.
,2
LOVE AND UNITY MUST BE ALL-EMBRACING
Should any one con~end that true and endu~ing unity c~n in ,
nowise be realized in this world inasmuch. as Its people WIdely
differ in their manners and habits, their ta~tes,. their tempera-
'ment and character, their thoughts and th~Ir VIews, to t~IS we
make reply that differences are of twO kInd~;. the one IS ~he
cause of destruction, as exemplified by the spmt of conten~lO.n
and strife which animates mutually conflicting and antagomstlc
peoples and nations, whilst the oth~r is the sign of diversity, the.
symbol and the secret of perfectIOn, and the revealer of the
bounties of the All-glorious.'
.
.
.
. . . Consider, the flowers of the garden; though dlffenng In
kind, color, form and shape, yet, inasl1}uch as they are: refres.hed
by the waters of one spring, revived by t~e b~eat~ of, ?ne WInd,
invigorated by the rays of one. sun, thIS dlvemty. In~r~aseth
their charm and ad4eth unto theIr beauty. How ~npleasIng to
the eye if all the flo~ers and plants, the leaves,and blossoms, the
fruit, the branches, and the trees' of the garden were all of the
same shape and color I Diversity of color, .formand shape en-
richeth and adorneth the ,garden, apd helghteneththe" effect
'thereof. In like manner, when divers shades of, thought, tem~'
perament and character, are brought together under the power
"
~'i :,'
, ;r I. ~ .•
:
,~" ••
",
"1.(1
" (I
, dr'
, "

THE DIVINE ART OF LInNG
and influence of one central agency, the beauty and glory of
human perfection will be revealed and made manifest. Nought
but the celestial potency of the Word of God, which ruleth and
trans~endeth the realities of all things, is capable of harmonizing
the divergent thoughts, sentiments, ideas and convictions of the
children of men.
In the estimation of God there is no distinction of color; all
are one in the color and beauty of servitude to Him. Color is
not important; the heart is all-important. It matters not what
the exterior may be if the heart is pure and white within. God
does not behold differences of hue, and complexion; He looks
at the hearts. He whose morals and virtues are praiseworthy is
preferred in the presence of God; he who is devoted to the
Kingdom is most beloved. . . .
When the racial elements of the American nation unite in
actual fellowship and accord, the lights of the oneness of hu-
manity will shine, the day of eternal glory and bliss will dawn,
the spirit of God encompass and the Divine favors descend.
Under the leadership and training of God, the real shepherd, all
will be protected and preserved. He will lead them in green
pastures of happiness and sustenance and they will attain to the
real goal of existence. This is the blessing and benefit of unity;
this is the outcome of love:
Every human creature is the servant of God. All have been
created and reared by the power and favor of God; all'have been
blessed with the bounties ,of the same Sun of Divine truth; all
have quaffed from the fountain of the infinite mercy of God;
and all in His estimation and love are equal as servants. He is
beneficent and kind to all. Therefore no one should glorify him-
self over another; no one should manifest pride or superiority
toward another; no one should look upon another with scorn
and contempt and no one should deprive or oppress a fellow
creature. All must be considered as submerged in the ocean of
God's mercy. We must associate with all humanity with gentle-
ness and kindliness. We must love all with love of the heart.
LOVE'AND UNITY
Some are ignorant; they mu~t be trained an~ educated. One. is
sick; he must be healed. Another is as a chd~j, we m~st ~~Slst
him to attain maturity. We must not detest him who ~ ailm,g,
neither shun him, scorn, nor curse him; but care for,hIm With
the utmost kindness and tenderness. An infant must not ~e
treated with disdain simply because it is a.n i.nfant. Our re~ponsl­
bility is to train, educate and develop It In order that It ma~
advance toward maturity.
I charge you all that, each one of y01;1 concentrate all the
thoughts of your 'heart on love and unity. When a thought of
war comes oppose it by a stronger thought of peace. A thought
of hatred must be destroyed by a more powerful thought of l?ve.
Thoughts of war bring destruction to all harmony, well-~eIng,
resffulness and content. Thoughts of love are constructive of
brotherhood, peace, friendship and ha~piness: .. '.
If you desire with all yo~~ heart fnend~~lp wlt.h every ~a~e
on 'earth, your thought, spmtual and pOSitive, wIll spread, It
will become the desire of others, growing stronger and stronger,
until it reaches the minds of all men.
When you love a member of your famil,>: or a .compatriot, let
it be with a ray of the Infinite Love! Let It be In God and for
God!
MAN'S LACK OF LOVE
'Abdu'l-Baha said:-I have just been told that there has been
a terrible accident in this country. A train has fallen into the
river and at least twenty people have been killed .••. I a?l filled
with wonder and surpris~, to notice what interest and eXCItement
has been aroused throughout the whole country on account of
the death of twenty people, while t~ey remain cold and indiffer-
ent to the fact that thousands of Italians, Turks and Arabs are
killed in Tripoli!'" ... Yet these unfortunate peopl~ are human
beings, too.
,
,
Why is there so much interest and eager sympathy shown
towards these twenty individuals, while for five thousand persons
.. A reference to t~e ltalo-Turkish war, of 1lI11.
'.
'
, '.
.... "', ..... _..t.....i

THE DIVINE AR.T OF LIVING
there is none? They are all men, they all belong to the famiiy
of mankind, but they are of other lands and races. It is no con-
cern of the disinterested countries if these men are cut to pieces,
this wholesale slaughter does not affect them! How unjust, how
cruel this is, how utterly devoid of any good and true feeling!
The people of these other lands have children and wives, mothers,
daughters and little ones! In these countries today there is hardly
a house free from the sound of bitter weeping, scarcely can one
find a home untouched by the cruel hand of war.
Alas! we see on all sides how cruel, prejudiced and unjust is
man, and how slow he is to believe in God and follow His
commandments.
.
Although the body-politic is one .family, yet because of. the
lack of symmetry some members are comfortable, and some are
in the utmost misery; some members are satisfied, and some are
hungry; some are clothed with the most costly garments, while
some are in need of food and shelter. Why? Because this family
has not that reciprocity and symmetry needed. This household
is not well arranged .... Is .it possible for a member of a family
to be subjected to the utmost misery and abject poverty, and for
the rest of the family to be comfortable? It is impossible, unless
the rest of the family be without feeling, having become spirit-
ually atrophied, inhospitable, unkind.
... The disease which afflicts the body-politic is lack of love
and absence of altruism. In the hearts of men no real love is
found~ and the condition is such that unless their susceptibilities
ar~ qUIcke~ed. by some power so that unity, love and accord may
develop withm them, there can be no healing, no agreement
among mankind. Love and unity are the needs of the body-
pol~tic toda,Y. Without these there can be no progress or pros-
perIty obtamed. Therefore the friends of God must adhere to
the power which will create this love and unity in the hearts
of ~~e sons. of men. Science cannot cure the illness of the body-
polItIC.
SCI~nce cannot create amity and fellowship in human
hearts.
NeIther can patriotism or racial allegiance effect a
remedy. It must be accomplished solely through the Divine
LOVE AND UNITY,
1 U
bounties and spiritual bestowals w~~~h have ~escended from ~od­
in this day for that. purpose. This IS .an eXigency .o~ the. times
and the Divine remedy has been provided. T~e s~lt1tual. teach-
ings of the religion of God can alone create .thls love, umty and
accord in human hearts.
Goo's REMEDY
The unity which is productiye of unlimited r_~sul~,~ is. fi~st a _
unity of mankind which recognizes that a!l are sheltered benbth
the overshadowing gloryoi the All-GloriOUS; thatall~re,serv- _
ants of one God; for all breathe the·same atmosphere,hve upon'
the same earth move beneath the same heavens, receive effulgence
from the same'sun and are under the protection of one God. 11tis
is the most great unity, and its results are ~asting ~f manki~d ad-
heres to it· but mankind has hitherto vlOlated It, adhermgto
sectarian 0; other limited unities such as racial, patljotic~r unity
of self interests; therefore no great results have . been fortq.com-
ing. Nevertheless it is certain, that the radiance and ~avor~ -of
God ,are encompassing, ininds have developed, ,perceptl?nS h~ve
become acute sciences and arts are widespread and capacity eXIsts
for the procl~mation and promulgation of the real and ultimate
unity of mankind which will bring for,th marvelous ~esults. It
will reconcile all religions, make warring nations lovmg,cause
hostile kings to become friendly and bring peace and happiness
to the human world. It will cement together the Orient and the
Occident remove forever the foundations of war and upraise'
the ensig~ of the Most Great Peace. These limited unities are
therefore signs of that great unity which will make-all the human
family one by being pr6ductive of the attractions of conscience
in mankind.
-
"
The great mass of humanity does not exercise re~llove and £e,l-
lowship. The elect of humanity are those who hve together m
love and unity. They are preferable before God because the
Divine attributes are already manifest in them, The Supreme
Love and Unity is witnessed in the Divine Manifestatio~s.
, Among them unity is indissoluble, changeless, eternal and ever-
"
~ '.~ ,'f""
. ,
, ,,-,.~
·:::i;
-or

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
lasting. Each one is expressive and representative of all. If we
deny on~ of the Mani~estations of God we deny all. To inflict
persecutIon upon one IS to persecute all. In all degrees of exist-
ence each one praises and sanctifies the others. Each of them
holds to the solidarity of mankind and promotes the unity of
human hearts. Next to the Divine Manifestations come the be-
lievers whose characteristics are agreement, fellowship and
love.
Fr.om the heaven of God's Will, and for the purpose of en-
nobhng the world of being and of elevating the minds and souls
of men, hath been sent down that which is the most effective
instrument for the education of the whole human race. The
highest essence and most perfect expression of whatsoever the
peoples of .old have either said or written hath, through this most
potent Revelation, been sent down from the heaven of the Will
of the All-Possessing, the Ever-Abiding God. Of old it hath been
revealed: "Love of one's country is an element of the Faith of
God." The Tongue of Grandeur hath, however, in the day of
His manifestation proclaimed: "It is not his to boast who loveth
his country, but it is his who loveth the world." Through the
power released by these exalted words He hath lent a fresh im-
pulse, and set a new direction, to the birds of men's hearts and
hath obliterated every trace of restriction and limitation from
God's holy Book. . . .
Though the world is encompassed with misery and distress,
yet no man hath paused to reflect what the cause or. source of that
may be .... The evidences of discord and malice are apparent
everywhere, though all were made for harmony and upion. The
Great Being saith: 0 well-beloved ones! The tabernacle of unity
ha th been raised; regard ye not one another as strangers. Ye are
the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch. . . .
If any man were to meditate on that which the Scriptures,
se?t dow? from the heaven of God's holy Will have revealed, he
WIll readIly recognize that their purpose is that all men shall be
regarded as one soul. . . . If the learned and worldly wise men·
LOVE AND UNITY
,
of this age were to allow mankind to. inhale the fragrance of fel- .
Ipwship and love, every understandmg heart would apprehe1.1d
the meaning of true liberty, and discover the secret of undiS-
turbed peace and absolute composure.
ApPLYING THE REMEDY
When a man turns his face to God he finds sunshine every-
where. All men are his brothers. Let not conventioAality cause
you to seem cold and unsympathetic, when you meet strange
people from other countries. Do n?t look at them as if yo~ su~­
pected them of being evil-doers, thieves and boors. You thm~ It
necessary to be very careful, riot to expose yourselves to the risk
of making acquaintance with such, possibly, undesirable people.
I ask you not to. think only of yourselves. Be kind to the
strangers, whether they come from Turkey, Japan, Persia, Russia,
China or any other country in the world. Help to make them
feel at home; find out where they are staying, ask if you may·
render them any service; try to make their lives a little happier.
In this way, even if, sometimes, what you at first suspecte~
should be true, stilt go out of your way to be kind to them-thI~
kindness will help them to become better ....
Let those who meet you know, without your proclaiming the
fact, that you are indeed a Baha'i.
..
Put into practice the teaching of Ba.ha'u'llah~ that ?f kin~n~ss
to all nations. Do not be content with showmg friendship· m
words alone; let your heart burn with loving-kindness for all
who may cross your path.
. 17
-,
Pray to God that thou mayest become
and well-wisher of humankind.
a lover· of men
Be in perfect unity. Never become angry with one another.
... Love the creatures for the sake of God and not for them-
selves. You will never become angry or impatient if you~ove
them for the sake of God. Humanity is not pel;'fect .. There are
imperfections in every human being and you will always b~coine
unhappy if you look toward the people themselves. But If yO\~

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
look toward God you will love them and be kind to them for
the world of God is the world of perfection and complete m;rcy.
Ther~fore do not .look at the shortcomings of anybody; see with
t~e sight of forgiveness. The imperfect eye beholds imperfec-
tIOns. The eye that covers faults looks towards the Creator of
souls. J:Ie create~ them, ~rains. and provides for them, endows
them with capacity and hfe, sight and hearing· therefore they
are the signs of His grandeur.
'
The great and fundamental teachings of BaM'u'llah are the
oneness of ~~d and unity of mankind. This is the bond of union
among Baha IS. aU over the world. They become united them-
selves, then UnIte others. It is impossible to unite unless united.
. I desire to make manifest among the friends in America a new
hght that they may become a new people, that a new foundation
may be est~bhsh.ed and complete harmony be realized. . . . You
must ha,:e mfinIte love for each other, each preferring the other
before himself. . . . You must love your friend better than
yourself; yes, be willing to sacrifice yourself. . . . I desire that
you be ready t? sacrifice everything for each other, even life
Itself;. then I wdl know that the cause of Baha'u'Uah has been
estabhshed. . . .
The advent of the prophets and the revelation of the Holy
Books is intel!ded ~o create· love between souls and friendship
between the mhabltants of the earth. Real love is impossible
unless one turn his face towards God and be attracted to His
beauty.
Be most loving one to another. Burn away, wholly for the
sake of the Well-Beloved, the veil of self with the flame of the
undying Fire, and with faces, joyous and beaming with light
associate with your neighbor.
Consort with al! men, 0 people of Baha, in a spirit of friendli-
ness and. fellowshIp.. If ye be aware of a certain truth, if ye
possess a Jewel, of which others are deprived, share it with them in
LOVE AND UNITY
a language of utm~t kindliness and good-will. If it be accepted,
if it fulfill its purpose, your object is attained. If anyon~ sho~ld
refuse it leave him unto himself, and beseech God to gwde. hIm.
Beware iest ye deal unkindly with him. A kindly tongue.I~ t~e
lodestone of the hearts of men. It is the bread of the spIrI~, It
clotheth the words with meaning, it is the fountain of the lIght
of wisdom and understanding.
24-
Consort with the peoples o~ religions ~ith l' oy and fragrance;
. . . The followers of sincenty and faithfu ness must co~ort
with all the people of the world with joy and fragrance; for as~o­
ciation is always conducive to union and harmony, and UOI?n
and harmony are the cause of the order of the world and the hfe
of the nations. Blessed are' they who hold fast to ~he ~ope of
compassion and kindness and are detached from anImosity and
hatred!
. 25
When you meet those whose opinions differ from your own, do
not turn your face from them. '. '. .
.,
.
Do not allow difference of opmlon, or dIverSity of. thought to
separate you from your fellow-men, or to be the cause of dispute,
hatred and strife in your hearts.
. . . Blessed is he who is illumined w~th the light of .cou~tesy; .
and is adorned with the mantle of upnghtnessl He who IS en-
dowed with courtesy is endowed with a great station.
27.
o Son of Man! If thou lookest toward mercy, regard n,otihat
which benefits thee, and hold to that which will benefit the .serv-
ants. If thou lookest to~ard justice, choose thou for others what
thou choosest for thyself.
This is the Day whe~eon the ocean o.f God's mercy hath bee!l
manifested unto men, the Day in whIch the Day Star of~
loving-kindness hath s.hed i.ts ~adia:nce upon them, ,the Da~~
which the clouds of HIS bountIful' favor have overshadowed the
whole of mankind. Now is the time to cheer and refresh the
down-cast through the invigorating breeze of loye and fellow:.. .
ship, and the living waters of friendliness and ch~rIty.i '
.. ~~
:.~
'!
,.;:,
.... '.~
" ,
.-.:1
'j
,"i
• !
!;I
. -~
"','
~, :::.;~
.,-
,,1,
"',
....
: ""')j
n'i
... ,;
~ ... ,; '.
.\~·i'::'~.~;.:~:' v:.;:~~
,"'" .. ,'r:

THE DIVINE ART OF L~VING
o ye friends of God! Show ye an endeavo~ that all the nations
and communities of. the world even the enemies put their trust,
assurance and hope In YOU; that if a person falls into error for a
hundred thousand times he may yet turn his face to you hopeful
th~t you ~ill forgive his sins; for he must not become hopeless,
neither gneved nor despondent! This is the conduct of the
people of Baha!
.
.0 ye beloved of the Lord! In this sacred Dispensation con-
fhct .and ~ontention are in no wise permitted. Every aggressor
depnves himself of God's grace. It is incumbent upon everyone
to show th~ utI?ost love, righteousness, straightforwardpess and
heartfelt kIndlIness unto all the peoples and kindreds of the
world, ~e they friends or strangers. Nay, the spirit of affection
aI?-d 10vIng-~indness must so prevail that the stranger may find
hlms~lf a ~nend, the enemy a true companion, and every least
trac~ o.f d~fference be removed. For universality is of God and
all limitatIOns earthly. Hence man must strive to show forth
s~ch virtues and perfections as may illumine all mankind. The
light of the sun shineth upon all the world and the merciful
showers o~ Providence fall upon all people. The life-giving
breeze revlveth every soul, and all living creatures obtain their
share .and portion. at His heavenly board. In like manner the
affectIOns and lovIng-kindness of the servants of the One True
G.od must be .bountifully and universally extended to all man-
kInd. RegardIng this, restrictions and limitations are in no wise
permitted.
W~erefore, 0 my loving friends! Consort with all the peoples
and kInd reds and religions of the world with the utmost truth-
fulness, uprightness, faithfulness, kindliness
good-will and
friendliness.
'31
WARNINGS AND PROMISES
Act in such a way that your heart may be free from
hatred. L~t not your heart be offended with anyone. If some
one ~om~lts an error and wrong toward you, you must instantly
forgive him. Do not complain of others. Refrain from repri-
LOVE AND UNITY
manding them, and if you wish to give admonition or a~vice let
it be offered in such a way that it will not burden the .recelver. 32
Beware lest ye off,end any heart, lest ye speak against anyone
in his absence, lest ye estrange yourselves from the servants .of
God. You must consider all His servants as your own family
and relations. Direct your whole effort towards the happiness of
those who are despondent, bestow food upon the hungry, clothe
the needy and glorify the humble. Be a helper to e'!ery helpless
one, and manifest kindness to your fellow creatures In order that
you may attain the good pleasure of God.
Should ye attribute a mistake to a person, it will be ~ caus~ ~f
offense and grief to him-how much greater would thiS be If It
is attributed to a number of people! How often it hath occurred
that a slight difference hath caused a great dissension and hath
been made a reason for division.
Self-love is a strange trait and the means of destruction of
many important souls in the world. If man be imbued with all
good qualities but be selfish, all the other virtues will fade or pass
away and eventually he will grow worse.
It hath been decided by the Desire of God that union and har-
mony may day by day increase among the friends of God an~
the maid-servants of the Merciful One In the West. Not until
this is realized will the affairs advance by any means whatever!
And the greatest means for the union and harmony of all is spir-
itual meetings. This matter is very important and is as a magnet
(to attract) Divine confirmation.
.
When a man ariseth to expound the arguments of God and to
invite people to enter the religion of God, ... and advanceth •
consummate proofs concerning the appearance of the great King-
dom,. then intense love shall become manifest in his heart. This
love causeth the development of his spirit by the grace of the
beneficent Lord.
Souls are liable to estrangement. Such methods should be
adopted that the estrangement should be first removed, then the
Word will have effect.
.~1
r

'."
THE DIVINE ART OF LrVING
: 0 My servant I Purge thy heart from malice and, innocent of
envy, enter the divine court of holiness.
o son of being! Ascribe' not to any soul that which thou
wouldst not have ascribed to thee, and say not that which thou
doest not. This is My command to thee, do thou observe it.
o ye beloved of the Lord! Commit not that which defileth
the limpid stream of ' love or destroyeih the sweet fragrance of
friendship. By the righteousness of the Lord! ye were created to
show love 'one to another and not perversity and rancor. Take
pride not in love for yourselves but in love for your fellow
creatures.
PRAYERS FOR LOVE AND UNITY
o Thou kind Lord! Thou hast created all humanity from the
same original parents. Thou hast intended that all belong to the
same household. In Thy holy presence they are Thy servants and
all mankind are sheltered beneath Thy tabernacle. All have
gathered at Thy table of bounty and are radiant through the
light of Thy providence. 0 God! Thou art kind to all, Thou
hast provided for all, Thou dost shelter all, Thou dost confer life
I
upon all. Thou hast endowed all with talents and faculties; all
are submerged in the ocean of Thy mercy. 0 Thou kind Lord!
unite all, let the religions agree; make the nations one so that they
may be as one kind and as children of the same fatherland. May
they associate in unity and concord. 0 God! upraise the standard
of the oneness of humankind. 0 God! establish the "Most Great
P,eace." , Cement the hearts together, 0 God! 0 Thou kind
• Father, God! exhilarate the hearts through the fragrance of Thy
16ve;brighten the, eyes through the light of Thy guidance; cheer
the hearing with the,melodies of Thy Word and shelter us in the
shelter of Thy providence. Thou art the Mighty and Powerful!
LOVE AND UNITY
Thy mercy. The Sun of Thy providence is shining upon.
Thy gifts encompass all, Thy providence sustains all, Thy prot,
tion overshadows all and the glances of Thy favor illumine
o LordI grant unto. us Thine infinite bestowals and let the li~
of Thy guidance shine. Illumine the eyes, make joyous the so
and confer a new spirit upon the hearts. Give them eternal Ii
Open the doors of Thy knowledge; let the light of faith shi
Unite and bring mankind under one shelter beneath the banl
of Thy protection so that they may become as waves of one ~
as leaves and branches of one tree, and may assemble beneath I
shadow of the same tent. May they drink from the same fot
tain. May they be refreshed by the same breezes. M.ay they (
tain illumination from the same source of light and life. Tt
art the Giver, the Merciful!

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
ETERNAL LIFE
W HA T Is ETERNAL LIFE?
T!i~ immortality of the s~irit is me~ti?ned in the Holy Books';
.
It IS the fundamental basIs of the dlvme religions. Now pun-
Ishments and r~wards are said to be of two kinds. First, the re-
wards and pumshmeI1:ts of this life; secondly, those of the other
world. But the paradIse and hell of existence are found in all the
worlds of God, ~?ether in this world or in the spiritual heav-
enly ~orlds. GaI~l1ng ~he~,e rewards is the gaining of eternal life.
That IS ~hy Chnst saId, Act in such a way that you may find
eternal hfe, and that you may be born of water and the spirit so
that you may enter into the Kingdom."
.
,
. . " . The re~ards of the other world are the eternal life which
IS clearly mentIOn,ed in all the Holy Books, the divine perfections
the eternal bountIes, and everlasting felicity. The rewards of th~
ot?~r world are the perfections and the peace obtained in the
sp~nt.ual worlds after leaving this world; whilst the rewards of
thIS lIfe are the ~ealluminous perfections which are realized in this
world, and whIch a~e the cause of eternal life, for they are the
very progres~ of eXIstence. It is like the man who passes from
the ~mbry?mc world to the state of maturity, and becomes the
mam~~statIOn of these words: "Blessed be God, the best of Cre-
ators.
The re~ards ~f. the other world are peace, the spiritual
gr~c~s, the varIOUS spIrItual gifts in the Kingdom of God, the
gammg ~f the desires of the heart and the soul, and the meeting
of God, m the world of eternity. In the same way the punish-
ments of the other world, that is to say, the torments of the
,
,)' .
ETERNAL LIFE
, 123
other world, consist in being deprived of the special' divine bleSs-
ings and the absolute bounties, and falling in~o the lowest de- ,
grees of existence. He who is deprived of these divine favors,
although he continues after death, is considered as dead by the
people of truth.
'
Thou hast asked me concerning the nature of the soul. Know,
verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly gem whose
reality the most learned of men have failed to grasp, and whose
mystery no mind, however acute, can ever hope to unravel. It
is the first among all created things to declare the excellence of
its Creator, the first to recognize His glory, to cleave to His troth,
and to bow down in adoration before Him. If it be faithful to
God, it will reflect His light, and will, eventually, return unto
Him. If it fail, however, in its allegiance to its Creator, it will
become a victim to self and passion, and will, in the end, sink
in their depths.
DEA TH Is CHANGE OF CONDITION
If the body undergoes a change, the s.pirit need not be
touched. When you break a glass on which the sun shines, the
glass is broken, but the sun still shines! ... If a lamp is broken,
the flame can still burn bright!
The same thing applies to the spirit of man. Though death
destroys his body, it has no power over the spirit-this is.eternal,'
everlasting. . . .
... To consider that after the death of the body the spirit
perishes, is like imagining that a bird in a cage will be destroyed
if the cage is broken, though the bird has nothing to fear from
the destruction of the cage. Our body is like the cage and the
spirit is like the bird. We see that without the cage this bird
flies in the world of sleep; therefore if the cage becomes broken,
the bird will continue and exist; its feeling will be even more
powerful, its perceptions greater, and its happiness increased.. 4
A friend asked: "How should one look forwar'd to death?"
'Abdu'l-~aha answered: "How does one look forward to the end'
, '
' .
. .
~
I.:
.,
~.

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
of any journey? With hope and with expectation. It is even so
with the end of this earthly journey. In,the next world man will
find himself freed from many of the disabilities under which he
now suffers. Those who have passed on through death, have a
sphere of their own. I~ is not removed from ours: their work of
the Kingdom, is ours; but it is sanctified from what we call time
and place. Time with us is measured by the sun. When there is
no m<;>re sunrise, and no more sunset, that kind of time does not
exist for man. Those who have ascended have different attributes
(conditions) from those who are still on earth, yet there is no
real separation.
"In prayer there is a mingling of stations, a mingling of condi-
tion. Pray for them as they pray for you."
LIFE AFTER DEATH
(
The mysteries of which man is heedless in this earthly world,
those will he discover in the heavenly world, and there will he
be informed of the secret of truth; how much more will he rec.,.
ognize or discover persons with whom he hath been associated.
Undoubtedly, the holy souls who find a pure eye and are favored
with insight will, in the kingdom of lights, be acq\!.ainted with all
mysteries, and will seek the, bounty of. witnessing the reality of
every great soul. Even they will manifestly behold the Beauty
, of God in that world. Likewise will they find all the friends of
God, both those of the former and recent times, present in the
heavenly assemblage.
As to the difference and distinction between Lazarus and that
"rich man": the first was spiritual, while the second was material.
One was in the highest degree of knowledge and the other in the
lowest depths of ignorance. The difference and distinction will
naturally become realized between all men after their departure
from this mortal world. But this (distinction) is not in respect
to place, but it is in respect to the soul and conscience. For the
Kingdom of God is sanctified (or free) from time and place; it is
another world and another universe. But the holy souls are
. promised the gift of intercession. And know thou for acer-
'~..
.'.r'~'
"'(/ .
~ . .,'., .
tainty, that in the divine worlds, the spirit,;,albeloved.ones (~­
Hevers) will 'recognize each other, and will seek,' utuon (W:1th,
each other), but a spiritual union. Likewise, a love~at,one ~y
have entertained for anyone will not be forgottenm the. wo~ld
of the Kingdom. Likewise, thou wilt not forget (there)· the life
that thou hast had in the material world.
'.
'
6 ,
Death proffereth unto every confident believer the. cup that is
life indeed. It bestoweth joy, and is the bearer of gladness. It
conferreth the gift of everlasting life.
I
.. •
"
o Son of the Supreme!
., '
, .
.
I have made death a messenger of joy to thee. Wherefore dost .'
thou grieve? I made the light to shed on thee its splendor. \Vhy
dost thou veil thyself therefrom?
' . ::8
It is clear and evident that all men shall, after their physical'
death, estimate the worth of their deeds, and realize all that 'their '
hands have wrought .... They that are the f9110",:,er~ of the o~,e
true God, shall, the moment they depart out of thls,hfe, exp~tl:'<,
ence such joy and gladness as would be impossible to desctl~e"
while they that live in error shall)e seized With. such fear ,~n,~,
trembling, and shall be filled with such consternatlpn,as~o~~g
can exceed. Well is it with him that hath quaffed the choice and
incorruptible wine of faith through the gracious ~avor and.the
Q1anifold bounties of Him Who is the Lord of all Faiths. . •• 9
How often hath a sinner attained, at the hour of death, to the
essence of faith, and, quaffing the immortal draught, hath taken.
his flight unto the Concourse on high!
It is evide~t that the loftiest mansions in the Realm On~?~J" .. ,.,~~i •. ,
tality have been ordained as the habitation of them tha~; ~~ve .'~., .
truly believed in God and in His signs. Death can,neV'er, 1J1~~ge; ";',::' "
h h I
t
,
, ...
H.,':,
t at 0 y sea.
'., ,',:, :",5.
•
Know thou of a truth, that if the soul of man hath.walked .
in the ways ;f God, it will, assuredly, retur? andb~;ga~ered"
'to the glory of the Beloved .... It.shall attam a statl0n~slich:~S'
no pen can depict, or tongue desctlbe. The soul that. hath;.;r~-
~
'"
"

'.,
theCa~se of God, Il!ld stood un'w:t'l/'erlno'lv:~
":~':j#~.,,w,,~M'\!!""~'u~ shall, after ,his ,ascension, ,be 'posse~sed of
,
. ,worlds which the Almighty hath created can
,. ,,'
him. Such a soul provideth, at the bidding of
. ,the
.....
and Divine Educator, the pure leaven that leav-
,:ene;h the'-world of being, and furnisheth the power through
. whIch the. arts and wonders of the world are made manifest.
. Consider. h0'Y mealneedeth leaven to 9C leavened with. Those -.':
'souls that are .the symbols of detachment are the leaven of the'
world. Meditate on this, and be of the thankful.
'12
It is ,possible that the condition of those who have died in
sin and unbelief may become changed; that is to say, they may
become the object of pardon through the bounty of God, not
through His justice; for bounty is giving without desert, and
just~ce isgi-ving what is deserved. As we have power to pray for
. these souls here, so likewise we shalI possess the same power in the
other world, which is the Kingdom of God.· Are not alI the
, 'people in the world the creatures of God? In that world also they
carimake progress. :As here they can receive'light by their sup-
plications, there also they can plead for forgiveness, and receive
light through entreaties and supplications. Thus as souls in this
world; through the help of the supplications, the entreaties, and
the prayers of the holy ones, can acquire development, so is it
the same ·after death. Through their own prayers they can also
progress; more especialIy when they are the object of the inter-
cession of the floly Manifestations.
CONSOLA TION FOR THE BEREAVED
(
From the death of that beloved youth, due to his separation
from you the utmost sorrow and grief has been occasioned, for
he flew away in the flower of his age and the bloom of his youth,
to. the heavenly nest.
,11i111."~"~" t~ the .sanc#fiedrealm of Light, the~ein lies. the con-
·.~nl .. ,..nn of our hearts.
'
d'
The inscrutable- divine wisdom underlies such heart-ren mg
occurrences. It is as if a kind gardener trans~ers a fr,esh and
" tender shrub from a narrow place to a vast regIOn. ~hIs tranh-
, ference is not the cause of the witherin.g, the w~nmg or t e
destruction of that shrub, nay, rather, It mak~s It gd'0W an~
thrive acquire freshness and delicacy, and attam ver ure an
f
·t'~n This hidden secret is well-known to the gardener,
wh:l; those souls who are unaware of this bounty supposeh thi,t
the ardener in his anger and wrath has upro~ted t~e s ru .
But ~o those who are aware this concealed fact IS mamfes~ and
this predestined decree considered a favor. Do not ,feel gne~ed
and disconsolate therefore at the ascension of that bIrd of falthh
fulness, nay under all ~ircumsta~ces pray and beg for that yout
forgiveness and elevatIOn of statIOn.
.
I hope that you will attain to the utmost patIence, composuri
and resignation and I supplicate rod entreat at the threshold h
Oneness and b~g pardon and forgiveness. My h~pe from t e
infinite bounties of God is that He may cause thIS dove of the
garden of faith to abide on the branch of the S~preme Chncourie
that it may sing in th~ best of tun~s the praIses and t e exc~4
lences of the Lord of names and-attrIbutes.
PRAYERS FOR THE DEPAR :rED
,0 my God! 0 Thou Forgiver of sins! Bestower of Gifts!
Dispeller of afflictions!
h
h
b
Veril' I beseech Thee to forgive the sins of sue
~s. ave a an,
doned the physical garment and hastened to t~e splt1t~al world
o
Lord! Purify them from trespasses, dIspel theIr sorrow
and ~~nge. their darkness into light. Cause them to enter tli<
Garden of Happiness, cleanse them with the most pure wate
em to behold Th s lendors on the LoftIest Mount

THE DIVINE ART OF LIVING
of Thy forgiveness is, verily, able to redeem and make free the
sinners by one of its waves. Thou redeemest whomsoever Thou
wiliest and deprivest whomsoever Thou wilIest not! Shouldst
Thou treat justly, we all are sinners and deserve to be deprived;
and shouldst Thou observe mercy, every sinner shall be made
pure and every stranger shall become a friend. Therefore forgive
and pardon and grant Thy mercy unto all. Thou art the For-
giver, the Light-Giver, and the Compassionate!
ADJ
AHW
AL
BNE
BP
BS
BW
BWF
EB
ESW
Gl.
Iq.
MFC
P&M
PHW
PUP
SAQ
SV
SW
TAB
TB
WAB
WF
WOB
WOM
REFERENCE NOTES
ABBREVIATIONS USED
Advent of Divine Justice
Arabic Hidden Words
'Abdu'l-Baha in London
Baha'u'IIah and the New Era
Baha'i Prayers
Baha'i Scriptures
Baha'i World
Baha'i World Faith
Episode of the Bab
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'IIah
The Kirab-i-Iqan (The Book of Certitude)
Mysterious Forces of Civilization
Prayers and Meditations by Baha'u'llih
Persian Hidden Words
Promulgation of Universal Peace
Some Answered Questions
Seven Valleys
Star of the West
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Baha
Tablets of Baha'u'llah
Wisdom of 'Abdu'l-Baha
The World Faith
World Order of Baha'u'llih
World Order Magazine
,.
l'
REFERENCE NOTES
(.'b"I,ler Olle-TRUST IN GOD
I. Luke 12:6,7. 2. WAB p. 99.
3. TAli p. 190.
4. TAB p. 200.
5. TAB p. 517.
6. TAB p. 170.
7. TAB p. 1S8.
8. ESW p. 76. 9. BWF p. 140.
10. WAB p. 101.
11. TAB p. 177.
12. TAB p. 381.
13. TAB p. 415.
14. TAB pp. 337, 338.
15. PUP pp. 45, 46.
16. P&M p. 236.
17. P&M pp. 113, 114.
18. P&M p. 250.
19. P&M p. 212.
20. P&M pp. 245-246.
21. PUP p. 463.
Chlll,ler Two-ENTRANCE INTO THE KINGDOM OF GOD
I. John 3:.3, 5,6. 2. SW vol. 7, p. 150.
~. TAB vol. 3, Pp. 604-605.
4. WF pp. 22, 23.
5. WAB p. 155.
6. PUP p. 220.
7. SW vol. 7, p. 172.
8. TAB vol. 3, p. 709.
9. SW vol. 7, p. 155.
10. SW vol. 7, p. 163.
11. AHW No. 36.
12. TAB p. 405.
1.\. PUP pp. 220,.221.
14. TAB p. 641.
Chllilier T}Jree-ADVANCING TOWARD THE IMMORTAL REALM
I. PHW No.7.
2. AHW No.2.
3. BWF p. 229.
4. TAB p. 206.
5. AHW No.3 I.
6. Gl. p. 196.
7. BW vol. 1, p 43.
8. MFC PI'. 8,26, 30. 9. BWF pp. 389, 390.
10. P&M p. 314.
11. Gl. p. 70.
12. PUP PI'. 66, 67.
13. SAQ pp. 273-274.
14. BW vol. I, p. 12.
15. TAB p. 67(,.
Cb"I,ler I'our-PRA YER AND MEDITATION
1. SW vol. 8, pp. 44, 45.
2. TAB p. 683.
3. TAB p. 3.
4. TAB p. 69.
5. TAB p. 694.
6. TAB p. 98.
7. ESW p. 94.
8. Gl. p. 323. 9. AHW No. 16.
10. WAB p. 155.
11. AHW No. 18.
12. TAB p. 89.
13. Gl. p. 291.
14. TAB p. 639.
15. TAB p. 122.
16. WO vol. 9, p. 271.
17. BP cd. 41, p. 60.
18. BP cd. 41, p. 49.
19. WAB p. 45.
20. TAB p. 168
21. WAB p. 51.
22. TAB p. 247. 23. WAB pp. 86, 87. 24. P&M p. 312.
25. PUP pp. 241,242. 26. SV p. 21.
27. P&M p. 249.
28. SW vol. 8, p. 48. 29. Idem.
30. Gl. p. 265.
31. TAB p. 186.
32. TAB PI'. 694-5.
33. WAB p. 105.
34. Gl. p. 266.
35. TAB p. 277. 36. Gl. p. 243.
37. TAB p. 113.
38. TAB p. 661.
39. SW vol. 8, p. 47.
40. SAQ p. 268.
41. PUP pp. 182, 183. 42. TAB p'. 483.
43. TAB p. 426. 44. TAB p. 427. 45. GI. p. 303.
46. AHW No. 43. 47. P&M p. 240. 48. P&M p. 90.
49. P&M p. 315.
50. P&M p. 117.
51. Gl. p. 295.
52. P&M p. 103.
53. P&M p. 272.
54. P&M p. 105.
55. P&M p. 329.
56. Iq. p. 238.
57. WAB pp. 163-164.
58. PUP pp. 454-456.
59. BNE pp. 114-115.
60. Gl. p. 136.