THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

23 May 2021

To the Friends Gathered in Matunda Soy, Kenya, for the Dedication of the House of Worship

Dearly loved Friends,

We greet you on this day of immense historic significance when the first Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in Kenya, a “dawning-place of lights”, “wherein the spirits are gladdened”, now opens its doors. The dedication of this lofty edifice, the first local House of Worship on the continent of Africa, at the beginning of a new epoch in the Divine Plan is a momentous step in the spiritual journey of your people. From the seeds of love and unity that were sown in the early days of the Cause in your country by a small band of steadfast believers, we see a tree bearing abundant fruit, as reflected in the coming together of diverse peoples for the praise and remembrance of the Ancient Beauty. We give thanks that, by the grace of the Almighty and at a time when the world is caught in the midst of uncertainty, the efforts of the friends throughout Matunda Soy and beyond have culminated in the raising of this beacon of hope, a cause for jubilation and great joy.

The participation of numerous friends in collective worship has led to the strengthening of the devotional life of your community and now to the establishment of its first local Mashriqu’l-Adhkár. This structure of elegant simplicity will surely become a focal point for the life of so many individuals and families as they strive to serve their communities. That the House of Worship has been constructed in just three years and under extremely challenging circumstances is a testament to the vitality, resourcefulness, and determination of the Kenyan people. Throughout this time, drawing on the power of the Word of God, the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the area, particularly the youth, have been making a marked contribution to the material and spiritual advancement of their society. No doubt, they will be inspired and spurred on in their endeavours by the emergence of the Temple which promises a bright future for that land.

May the inhabitants of Matunda Soy be the recipients of divine favour and confirmations as they gather to praise and glorify the Lord in this Mashriqu’l-Adhkár. May the light emanating from this prayer-filled place cast out the shadows, uplift the hearts, and draw the souls closer to the Beloved. On this day, as you gather at the House of Worship, we call to mind these words of the beloved Master: “O ye beloved of God! Behold how abundant shall be the freshness, tenderness, spirituality, and radiance that are attained when ye assemble in that gathering place of the spirit, occupy yourselves at dawn with the remembrance of God, and, after reciting prayers, make mention together of the Most Bountiful Lord in sweet melodies. These melodies shall reach unto the Kingdom of Glory, and these songs shall cheer and gladden the Concourse on high.”

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]