Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Nineteen

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquium
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Cover design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
and the Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarship Grant
175 B.E. 2018 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-34-3
Copyright © 2018, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

O My brother! Sanctify thy heart, illumine thy soul,
and sharpen thy sight, that thou mayest perceive the
sweet accents of the Birds of Heaven and the melodies
of the Doves of Holiness warbling in the Kingdom of
eternity, and perchance apprehend the inner meaning
of these utterances and their hidden mysteries. For
otherwise, wert thou to interpret these words
according to their outward meaning, thou couldst
never prove the truth of the Cause of Him Who came
after Jesus, nor silence the opponents, nor prevail
over the contending disbelievers.
— Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries, π23

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................ 3
Some Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
Hooshmand Badee .................................................................... 5
Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission: “This is the One Who Hath Glorified the
Son”
JoAnn Borovicka .................................................................... 23
Laozi: A Lost Prophet?
Roland Faber  ......................................................................... 41
Freedom and the Baha’i Writings
Ian Kluge ............................................................................. 111
The Kitáb-i-ˆqán (The Book of Certitude): Revolutionizing the Concepts
of Religion, Eschatology and Theology
Sohrab Kourosh .................................................................... 183
Power and the Bahá’í community
Moojan Momen .................................................................... 209
A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
provisional translation by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani ......... 233
Ancient Poems as Means of Revelation, in an Early Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani ............................................... 237
The Mathnaví of Rú˙u’lláh, the Martyr
translated by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani ........................... 269
The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, the Martyr: A Few Notes on Its
Historical Context and Poetical Content
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani  ............................................... 273
The Countenance of the Blessed Beauty in the Mirror of Mawlúd Tablets
Foad Seddigh ........................................................................ 285
End of Days
Moshe Sharon ....................................................................... 313

Elucidations
Bahá’í Fast: a compilation ......................................................... 327
Persian translation of Arabic verses
Universal House of Justice .................................................... 337
In Memoriam
Dr. Muhammad Afnan (1903 – 2017) ......................................... 339
Dr. Heshmat Shariary (1934 – 2018) .......................................... 342
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations ...... 345
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-18 .................................... 347
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ....................................... 361
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications ............................................ 361
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ................................. 362

Preface
The year 2017 was the start of three years designated for the
bicentennial celebration of the twin birthdays of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. `Irfán Colloquium is participating in this celebratory
affairs by inviting scholarly research and presentations on topics
related to the appearance, mission and revealed words of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. This volume of the Lights of Irfan contains some of
those studies such as “The Countenance of Bahá’u’lláh in the Mirror
of Mawlúd Tablets”, “Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission: This is the One
Who Hath Glorified the Son,” and “A new Jewish Document on the
Mission of Baha’u’llah.”
The concept of freedom, as presented and defined in the Bahá’í
Writings, is extensively explored in the article on “Freedom and the
Bahá’í Writings” and some of the aspects of freedom are dealt with in
the article on “Power and the Bahá’í community.”
“Power and the Bahá’í community” is an attempt at exploring the
dynamic nature of the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh in recreating
society. It examines two inter-related problems facing society: first
the fact that a large proportion of people are practically excluded
from, or are unable to fully participate in, society, and second, the
balance between individual freedom and central authority has not
been satisfactorily resolved.
Study of Kitáb-i-ˆqán (The Book of Certitude), is emphatically
recommended by Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. Some
important concepts elucidated in that blessed text are dealt with in
the article on “The Kitáb-i-ˆqán Revolutionizing the Concepts of
Religion, Eschatology and Theology.”
The unity of humankind is the pivotal mission of the Bahá’í Faith.
The economic consequences of unity are discussed in the article “An
Analytical Perspective of Economic Consequences of Unity.”
"Laozi, a Lost Prophet? The Challenge of the Dao De Jing for the
Bahá’í Universe of Discourse” opens a new field in the Bahá’í studies,
i.e. comparative studies of Bahá’í teachings and belief systems and
various religious traditions prevalent in the eastern Asian countries,
particularly Daoism. Articles on such studies will be welcome for
publication in the Lights of `Irfán.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
“The End of Days” presents a brief review of the question of
expectation in religions prior to the advent of Bahá’u’lláh, namely the
end of current history and the start of messianic times, when a
divinely inspired, and guided holy leader will come to the world to
initiate an eternal era of bliss, has occupied humanity to this very
day. It finally deals with the content of an antique manuscript in
Hebrew, Judeo Arabic and Aramaic written by a Jewish Bahá’í
dedicated to proving the divinity of Bahá’u’lláh.
The section on translation contains a provisional translation of a
Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh that includes some ancient Persian
poems. It examines the importance of poetry in the history of Bahá’í
Faith and in the Bahá’í Writings.
This section also includes provisional translation of some of the
poems composed by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, a very young Bahá’í poet who
was martyred together with his father, a well-known Bahá’í poet and
Hand of the Cause of God, ‘Alí Mu˙ammad Varqá, as well as a very
brief biographical sketch of Rú˙u’lláh Varqá.
The section on Elucidations includes a compilation of the
Writings related to the law of fasting in the form of classified topical
summaries. It facilitates having a complete view of various aspects of
fasting. This section also contains the recent guidance of the
Universal House of Justice on the translation of Arabic verses.
During the recent months, ‘Irfán Colloquium and ‘Irfán
publications lost two valuable colleagues, Dr. Muhammad Afnan and
Dr. Heshmat Shariary, whose research and studies greatly enriched the
quality of ‘Irfán publications. Their short biographies are published
in the section on In Memoriam.
Provisional translations of the Bahá’í Writings in English by the
authors are for the documentation of the contents of the articles and
should not be separately published and distributed as authorized
translations. Articles are published in this volume according to the
alphabetical order of the authors’ surnames.
‘Irfán publications are sponsored by the generous support of Haj
Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund and voluntary contributions of the
friends of the ‘Irfán Colloquium. It is hoped that such supports and
also the collaboration of scholars would make it possible to continue
‘Irfán project and services.
Iraj Ayman
May 2018

Some Reflections on the Principle of
Unity/Oneness
Hooshmand Badee
Introduction
The year 2017 is an exciting time for Bahá’ís because the Bahá’í
world community is celebrating the global commemoration of the
Bicentennial Birth of Bahá’u’lláh. There are two main reasons for
celebration. Bahá’u’lláh is the latest representative of God for
reconnecting the humanity to an unknowable God, and this need to
be celebrated. Also, the message of Bahá’u’lláh is to unite the entire
humanity, a vision prophesied by preceding dispensations, and this is
worthy of celebration. Bahá’u’lláh’s mission is to create a global
society that is based on unity and love rather than factors such as
economic and political gains. Bahá’u’lláh is the prophet of unity and
a gift of God to the humanity, which should be welcomed. Humanity,
according to the Universal House of Justice should, ‘...seize this
opportunity to find out who He was and what He represents.’1 This
paper, briefly, reflects on the message of Bahá’u’lláh, creating the
oneness of humanity.
Creating Unity/Oneness is the Main Reason for
the Coming of Bahá’u’lláh
Oneness is such an important principle that we can call the Bahá’í
Faith a religion of oneness. Oneness, according to the Universal
House of Justice is ‘...at once the operating principle and the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
ultimate goal of His [Bahá’u’lláh] Revelation...’2 According to
Bahá’u’lláh’s admonitions:
We have created you all from one same substance it is
incumbent on you to be even as one soul, to walk with the
same feet, eat with the same mouth and dwell in the same
land, that from your inmost being, by your deeds and actions,
the signs of oneness and the essence of detachment may be
made manifest. [HW Ar. #68]
The principle of oneness according to Shoghi Effendi is ‘...the pivot
round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve.’ [WOB 42] He
further states:
The principle of the oneness of mankind ... is no mere
outburst of ignorant emotionalism or an expression of vague
and pious hope... The principle of the oneness of mankind, as
proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh, carries with it no more and no less
than a solemn assertion that attainment to this final stage in
this stupendous evolution is not only necessary but
inevitable, that its realization is fast approaching, and that
nothing short of a power that is born of God can succeed in
establishing it. [WOB 42]
The Universal House of Justice in The Promise of World Peace
confirms that:
World order can be founded only on an unshakable
consciousness of the oneness of mankind, a spiritual truth
which all the human sciences confirm... Acceptance of the
oneness of mankind is the first fundamental prerequisite for
reorganization and administration of the world as one
country, the home of humankind.3
These and numerous other writings about the consciousness of the
oneness indicates that its promotion is the object of life for every
Bahá’í. Likewise, as the Universal House of Justice puts, humanity
should seize the opportunity and find out who is Bahá’u’lláh and
what is His message.

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
Although the term oneness is used frequently in the Bahá’í writings
and we are familiar with the term, it is not easy to define, because in
order to define it we have to consider several parts of it, and once we
break it into several parts, according to Bahá’í scholar Alimorad
Davoodi, it is no more oneness. Therefore, the only definition about
oneness according to him is that it is ONE4, and this is the definition
written in most popular dictionaries.5 Maintaining this view,
Davoodi states, ‘Although the word oneness cannot be defined we
can sense it.’6 As Bahá’ís we are used to the concept of oneness, we
are associated with the spirit of it and we can have a sense of it. If we
ask any Bahá’í, anywhere in the world about the main goal of the
Bahá’í Faith, the answer in most cases and perhaps all the time would
be just one word: unity/ oneness.
To Bahá’ís, the principle of unity is the distinguishing
characteristic of an approach to an ideal global society. Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement that ‘The earth is but one country, and mankind its
citizens’ [GWB 248], or ‘The tabernacle of unity hath been raised;
regard ye not one another as strangers’ [GWB 218], are clearly in line
with the recognition of the entire world as one community. This goal
is possible because, at this time, the means to attain unity are to
hand. For example, the revolutionary and world-embracing means of
global interrelatedness such as communication, transportation,
information technology and global financial interdependency are
available as methods of unifying the nations. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains
that ‘In cycles gone by, though harmony was established, yet, owing
to the absence of means, the unity of mankind could not have been
achieved’ []SWAB 31]. This is because means of coming into contact,
which is currently available, were not within reach during the past
dispensation, thus, ‘... association and interchange of thought were
well-nigh impossible’ [SWAB 31]. With reference to these passages, we
can list three features of an ideal global society: oneness, association,
and interchange of thoughts, which could be understood, appreciated
and promoted through advanced information and technology.
On a more encouraging and promising condition, humanity has
realised the need for having unity of people and nations. In other
words, the concept has been recognized. The fact that we are having
so many international conferences organized by the United Nations
and governments, to discuss issues related to the humanity, is because

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
we have understood that it is not possible to live in isolation. We are
dependent on each other. It is realized that we are living in an age
that oneness of mankind is not an option, it is a necessary condition
for survival. A significant subject pertinent to unity/oneness that has
been discussed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is the interdependence of people and
nations. Frequently He emphasises that ‘all the members of the human
family, whether peoples or governments, cities or villages, have
become increasingly interdependent’ [SWAB 31-32]. And in a stronger
statement He said, ‘For none is self-sufficiency any longer possible,
inasmuch as political ties unite all peoples and nations, and the bonds
of trade and industry, of agriculture and education, are being
strengthened every day’ [SWAB 32]. Although, the need for having
unity is recognized, humanity is struggling to form an ideal and
meaningful society on the foundation of love and unity.
The two words of unity and oneness, although are used
interchangeably in many cases, they are not the same. For example, in
the following passage ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states the means for achieving the
world of oneness:
Now is the time for the lovers of God to raise high the
banners of unity, to intone, in the assemblages of the world,
the verses of friendship and love and to demonstrate to all
that the grace of God is one. Thus, will the tabernacles of
holiness be upraised on the summits of the earth, gathering all
peoples into the protective shadow of the World of Oneness.
[SWAB 20]
Shoghi Effendi stated:
World unity is the goal towards which a harassed humanity is
striving. Nation-building has come to an end. The anarchy
inherent in state sovereignty is moving towards a climax. A
world, growing to maturity, must abandon this fetish,
recognize the oneness and wholeness of human relationships,
and establish once for all the machinery that can best
incarnate this fundamental principle of its life. [WOB 163-164]
In the following section a contrast is made between unity and
oneness.

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
Unity can be achieved through various processes, for example,
decision making through a process of a democratic and consultative
method. Oneness, on the other hand, is the product or the outcome
of such unity. Also, in unity, people gather together for a common
interest such as discussing environmental issues, or issues related to
refugee’s crisis, or elimination of poverty. These events and activities
are processes of integration that if done properly and sincerely leads
to unity of thoughts and strengthening oneness of humanity.
One might see unity as a temporary connection based on a
common interest in a group; oneness is an actual integration of the
whole. In other words, the term unity suggests the idea of a group of
individuals coming together for a common goal. A group may think
alike, however, they are each different in personality and character.
Oneness is created when the group integrated with a spirit of love,
fellowship and unity. It is in that moment that there is no other
identity other than a condition that they are all ONE in spirit.
Unity should be the vision at the start of any activity, with the aim
to finish it with oneness. This is a big challenge as many activities
with good intention result in failure. The absence of clear planning,
lack of resources including human, physical and financial are some of
the challenges that may exist in strengthening oneness.
Unity is the catalyst, or a bridge to strengthen oneness. Numerous
examples are stated in the Bahá’í writings that are the catalyst to
achieve oneness. These include an independent investigation of truth;
equality of women and men; an auxiliary universal language, universal
and compulsory education; Bahá’í marriage, a universal single
currency.
Unity is the means that leads to transformation of human
relationship and ends with the oneness. Oneness of humankind
according to the Universal House of Justice ‘...holds far-reaching
implications for the life of the individual and for the betterment of
the world.’7 Bahá’u’lláh clearly raise a genuine question, ‘...is not the
object of every Revelation to effect a transformation in the whole
character of mankind, a transformation that shall manifest itself,
both outwardly and inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and
external conditions? For if the character of mankind be not changed,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the futility of God’s universal Manifestation would be apparent’ [KI
240-241].
All events and activities should have sufficient follow-up that
gives an opportunity for oneness to develop. For an effective
relationship between all participants in a community, morality
becomes a key principle for its operation. Interrelationship should
allow individual core values to reach and affect the wider society.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The more this interrelationship is strengthened and expanded,
the more will human society advance in progress and
prosperity. Indeed, without these vital ties it would be wholly
impossible for the world of humanity to attain true felicity
and success.8
Some Examples of Bahá’í Teachings as Catalysts
for Strengthening Oneness
Independent Investigation of Truth
The Religious priesthood is one of the reasons for serious
conflicts and disunity among peoples and nations of the world and
among different religious denominations. The Founder of the Bahá’í
Faith has removed the religious priesthood from the Bahá’í
community forever, and the responsibility of the affairs of the Bahá’í
community is invested in the Bahá’í administrative order. The absence
of religious priesthood suggests that each Bahá’í has the responsibility
and attitude of independent investigation of truth. This is a principle
that when practised by the followers of all Faiths leads to the
realisation that the true spirit of all Faiths is one. The Bahá’í Writings
confirm this view, Bahá’u’lláh said:
...as these Birds of the Celestial Throne [Manifestations of
God] are all sent down from the heaven of the Will of God,
and as they all arise to proclaim His Irresistible Faith, they,
therefore, are regarded as one soul and the same person. For
they all drink from the one Cup of the love of God, and all
partake of the fruit of the same Tree of Oneness. [KI 37]

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
Elsewhere He said, ‘Purge thy sight, therefore, from all earthly
limitations, that thou mayest behold them all as the bearers of one
Name, the exponents of one Cause, the manifestations of one Self,
and the revellers of one Truth...’ [KI 39]. And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
‘...the oneness of the kingdom of humanity, which is the essence of
the teachings of all the Manifestations of God...’ [PUP 11-12].
The vision and central objective of every revelation have been the
consciousness of the spirit of oneness and it came in stages of unity
as a goal. Confirming this Bahá’u’lláh states, ‘The fundamental
purpose animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to safeguard
the interests and promote the unity of the human race...’ [GWB 215].
He also said, ‘The prophets of God should be regarded as physicians
whose task is to foster the well-being of the world and its peoples,
that, through the spirit of oneness, they may heal the sickness of a
divided humanity’ [GWB 79]. According to historian Joseph Kitagawa
(1990) in the Quest for Human Unity, ‘...ideas of the oneness of a
globally united humanity have a rich and varied history, reaching back
to antiquity.’9 The Holy Scriptures are in agreement about the
fundamental principle of oneness. The diversity of religions,
however, is due to external condition and the timing of each
Revelation. There can be unity in each Faith or within each
denomination. But oneness is created when all become one under the
banner of one God and one Faith. The messengers of God are
different individuals; however, they are one in spirit. Bahá’u’lláh said:
These Manifestations of God have each a twofold station.
One is the station of pure abstraction and essential unity. In
this respect, if thou callest them all by one name, and dost
ascribe to them the same attribute, thou hast not erred from
the truth. Even as He hath revealed: “No distinction do We
make between any of His Messengers!” [Qur’án 2:285] For
they, one and all summon the people of the earth to
acknowledge the Unity of God, and herald unto them the
Kawthar of an infinite grace and bounty. They are all
invested with the robe of Prophethood, and honored with the
mantle of glory. Thus, hath Muhammad, the Point of the
Qur’án, revealed: “I am all the Prophets.” Likewise, He saith:
“I am the first Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus.” Similar
statements have been made by ‘Alí. Sayings such as this,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
which indicate the essential unity of those Exponents of
Oneness, have also emanated from the Channels of God’s
immortal utterance, and the Treasuries of the gems of divine
knowledge, and have been recorded in the scriptures. These
Countenances are the recipients of the Divine Command, and
the daysprings of His Revelation. This Revelation is exalted
above the veils of plurality and the exigencies of number.
Thus, He saith: “Our Cause is but one” [Qur´án 54:50].
Inasmuch as the Cause is one and the same, the Exponents
thereof also must needs be one and the same. [KI 37]
Thus, an outstanding team-work is recorded in the Holy Scriptures
with the messengers of God to create and strengthen the oneness of
religions and the creation of oneness of the entire humanity in stages
with the unity of tribes, of cities, of a nation, and now of the entire
human race.
Non-involvement in Partisan Politics
The Bahá’í writings clearly define religion and politics as two
separate spheres of human activity, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: ‘Religion is
concerned with things of the spirit, politics with things of the world.
Religion has to work with the world of thought, whilst the field of
politics lies with the world of external conditions’ [PT 132]. Bahá’ís
get distance from any activities that cause disunity. One such activity
is involved in party politics and this is perhaps another main reason
for serious conflicts and disunity in a society. Disunity weakens the
degree of oneness. Bahá’ís are, therefore, instructed to apply the non-
involvement in partisan politics. The Universal House of Justice
states:
When Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed His Message to the world in the
nineteenth century He made it abundantly clear that the first
step essential for the peace and progress of mankind was its
unification.10
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the rationale of non-involvement in political
activities:

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
If a Bahá’í were to insist on his right to support a certain
political party he could not deny the same degree of freedom
to other believers. This would mean that within the ranks of
the Faith, whose primary mission is to unite all men as one
great family under God, there would be Bahá’ís opposed to
each other. Where, then, would be the example of unity and
harmony which the world is seeking?11
The Universal House of Justice in the Ridvan message 2017 states:
Shoghi Effendi warned too against having any share in
political controversies, entanglements, and bickerings. “Let
them rise above all particularism and partisanship,” he urged
on another occasion, “above the vain disputes, the petty
calculations, the transient passions that agitate the face, and
engage the attention, of a changing world.” These are the
inevitable foam and spray cast up as wave after wave
convulses a turbulent and divided society.12
Therefore, Bahá’í understanding is that partisanship can never
build unity among all people, and choosing one side or another in the
partisan political divisions will only lead to separation, disintegration
and disunity, and weaken the oneness. However, if politics, not
defining as partisan politics, but defining by its universal way of
thinking which is to have programs for the wellbeing and prosperity
and happiness of an entire population, then without any
exaggeration, Bahá’u’lláh created a universal political enterprise. He
created the greatest social-political and spiritual revolution of all
times. Bahá’u’lláh is a spiritual revolutionary.
The Bahá’í Covenant
The covenant is a guarantee for sustainability of unity in the
Bahá’í community and a vital means to achieve the end result of
oneness. Bahá’ís believe that the distinctive unity of the Bahá’í Faith
stems from a promise from God to humanity that assures His
continuing guidance after the passing of Bahá’u’lláh. The promise is
referred to as the covenant (Ahd va Míthág). Bahá’u’lláh, in His
‘Will’, the “Book of Covenant” (Kitáb-i-Ahd), appointed His son,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as his successor and the interpreter of his writings, and

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the centre of His covenant. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, also in his “Will and
Testament” (Alváh-i-Vasáyá) appointed his grandson, Shoghi Effendi,
as his successor, the interpreter of the scriptures, and the guardian of
the Faith. Thus, there is a clear authoritative interpretation of Bahá’í
Holy Scriptures. According to this covenant, the Universal House of
Justice is the supreme governing body of the Bahá’í Faith (the
Guardian and the House of Justice were the twin successors of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá). When the Universal House of Justice sends a message,
the entire Bahá’í community unitedly receives their loving,
affectionate and caring guidance and put it into practice full
heartedly. Bahá’ís are, therefore, united because they follow the same
scriptures and authority.
The organization of the Bahá’í Faith and its administrative
institutions are such that do not allow the creation of sects, branches
or denominations. This requires the establishment of a strong
relationship between the central figures of the Bahá’í Faith and the
believers. The House of Justice describes the Covenant as ‘...an
institution which protects the Cause from individuals who, through
the assertion of their own wills, would try to force God’s Cause into
the paths of their own preference and thus divide the Faithful and
subvert the world-wide establishment of divine justice.’13
It is through the Bahá’í covenant that a network of local, national
and international institutions operates in harmony throughout the
world. Considering that the Bahá’ís live in more than one hundred
thousand localities worldwide, embracing the culture of unity affects
the Bahá’í community directly, and indirectly affects the flow of
strengthening oneness.
The Institution of Bahá’í Marriage
Bahá’í marriage is a principle that helps maintain unity between
two people with an effect of creating and strengthening the spirit of
oneness. Separation of people weakens the oneness and unity adds to
the strength of oneness. The Bahá’í writings consider the family as the
basic unit of society. Unless this all-important building block is
healthy and cohesive, society cannot be healthy and unified. The
foundation of a successful and healthy family is the preparation for a
union as an essential element of a happy marriage. Bahá’u’lláh said

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
marriage is ‘...a fortress for well-being and salvation’ [KA note 88].
He, not only permits but also keenly encourages Bahá’ís to marry
with people of any belief or cultural, ethnic and racial background,
and with no consideration of social class or wealth. Marriage is to
ensure not only unity between the couple but also between the two
families, and even different communities and cultures, such as in
mixed marriages. These are the means and processes of unity that add
to end result of oneness. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: ‘...the foundation of
the Kingdom of God is based upon harmony and love, oneness,
relationship and union, not upon differences, especially between
husband and wife.’14
Mixed marriages between different cultures, although challenging
in some ways, enable individuals and families to learn and respect
each other’s cultures, a phenomenon that would have an effect on the
strength of oneness. Other positive effects of mixed marriages are
the potential to remove national, cultural and religious barriers in the
long run and improve communication between the parties. Children
raised in such families develop a broader view of the world, with a
positive attitude of respect and effective communication with
different cultures. Once again, these are the means and the process of
achieving oneness.
Within the Bahá’í community, much importance is placed on
consolidating the concept of family and its relationship with those
outside of the family unit. Moral education and a better
understanding of the significance of marriage and family life helps
pave the way. Morality is an essential part of the Bahá’í culture,
which defines the relationship between an individual and the whole
society, and Bahá’í parents and the Bahá’í community endeavour to
teach moral values to children. As a result, those values become an
intrinsic part of the individual and the life of the society. In a
number of places, the Bahá’í Writings use the analogy of family to
confirm that human beings are members of a big family. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá states: ‘...we are all inhabiting one globe of the earth. In reality,
we are one family and each one of us is a member of this family. We
must all be in the greatest happiness and comfort’ [FWU 41]. As a
result of practising the features of a family in the wider society, it
becomes a natural and normal way of life to respect and care for

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
fellow human beings and the creation of a new generation to work
towards creating oneness.
The Institution of the Bahá’í House of Worship
A significant aspect of Bahá’í House of worship is that it is the
practical demonstration of the oneness of religions. ‘The Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár, described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as:
...one of the most vital institutions of the world’, weds two
essential, inseparable aspects of Bahá’í life: worship and
service. The union of these two is also reflected in the
coherence that exists among the community-building features
of the particularly the burgeoning of a devotional spirit that
finds expression in gatherings for prayer and an educational
process that builds capacity for service to humanity.15
These Houses of worship are unique places which welcome members
of all Faiths ‘to reunite’ them. A letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi states, ‘The oneness of mankind implies the achievement of a
dynamic coherence between the spiritual and practical requirements
of life on earth. The indispensability of this coherence is
unmistakably illustrated in his ordination of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár,
the spiritual center of every Bahá’í community’ [MA 23-24]. Hence,
Bahá’í House of Worship is an ideal place to gather people of all
faiths. Apart from the view that Bahá’í House of Worship is a means
to celebrate the oneness of religion, these buildings offer
humanitarian services to deal with the ills of society. Shoghi Effendi
states:
Nothing short of direct and constant interaction between the
spiritual forces emanating from this House of Worship
centering in the heart of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, and the
energies consciously displayed by those who administer its
affairs in their service to humanity can possibly provide the
necessary agency capable of removing the ills that have so
long and so grievously afflicted humanity. [BA 184]
And the Universal House of Justice states:

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
It was as if the House of Worship, yet unbuilt, was fulfilling
the wishes of the Master, expressed on the eve of the
ceremony, for every such edifice: ‘that humanity might find a
place of meeting’ and ‘that the proclamation of the oneness
of mankind shall go forth from its open courts of holiness.16
Therefore, the reality, structure and function of Houses of Worship
are effective means of adding to the strength of the spirit of all
Faiths as one reality.
The Institution of the Nineteen-Day Feast
The Nineteen Day Feast is a unique event ordained in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas by Bahá’u’lláh. He counselled His followers to meet once
every Bahá’í month with a vision of the fundamental principle of
unity that will diffuse the oneness of mankind, although the methods
and approaches adopted in each community may vary. Nineteen Day
Feast is demonstrating another means for strengthening the principle
of oneness. The holding of these gatherings is to bind hearts together.
In appreciation of the purpose of this most important Institution of
the Cause ‘Abdu’l-Bahá described the Feast in these terms: ‘This Feast
is a bringer of joy. It is the groundwork of agreement and unity. It is
the key to affection and fellowship. It diffuseth the oneness of
mankind.’17
Bahá’ís’ work towards community building starts at the local level,
as unity starts at the grassroots through individual efforts, concerted
community efforts and the institutions of the Faith. At the core of
Bahá’í community life is the Nineteen-Day Feast. The Local Spiritual
Assembly has the responsibility of organising these gatherings in their
own specific area of jurisdiction. The Nineteen-Day Feast is a good
example of the close relationship of the individual, the community
and the institutions, where all Bahá’ís in the area, regardless of their
socio-economic status and educational achievements gather together
to worship, discuss the community’s progress, and consult about
possible ways to build the community. The hope of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is
that:
... the Nineteen Day Feast become the cause of great spiritual
solidarity between the friends, that it may bring believers

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
into the bond of unity, and we will then be so united together
that love and wisdom will spread from this centre to all parts.
This Feast is a divine Feast. It is a Lord's supper. It attracts
confirmation of God like a magnet. It is the cause of the
enlightenment of hearts.18
The holding of thousands of such Feasts around the world with
objectives of ‘unity in diversity’, is a practical way of learning,
practising and creating oneness of humanity.
Pioneering and Travel Teaching
According to Moojan Momen, the term pioneer is ‘used in Bahá’í
literature to designate those who leave their homes to settle in
another locality with the intention of spreading the Bahá’í Faith or
supporting existing Bahá’í communities.’19 The purpose of spreading
the Bahá’í Faith is to unite communities with a vision of establishing
oneness of mankind, and pioneering is another means for achieving
it. Many communities are suffering from internal crisis and variety
of ethnic and cultural and religious difficulties and crying out for
unity. Pioneers can perform an important role to reconnect people
together in an atmosphere of love and fellowship. Bahá’í Pioneers, by
moving away from their homes and live with people of other
cultures, eagerly promoting unity and practising ‘unity in diversity’.
These are the two important requirements of strengthening oneness.
The program of pioneering in the last few decades has not only
resulted in promoting the Bahá’í Faith in all corners of the globe but
has also been working towards removing prejudices, which may
otherwise form obstacles towards promoting oneness. Referring to
the important role of pioneers, the Universal House of Justice states,
‘There is no doubt that the movement of pioneers remains an
indispensable feature of the spiritual enterprise in which the
community of the Most Great Name is engaged.’20 Pioneers and travel
teachers show in a very practical sense that it is possible to be united
while being different. It is important to note that by moving to
different countries, Bahá’í pioneers and travel teachers do not intend
to change people’s traditions and way of life but learn and respect
the culture of the community they live.

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
Further Reflections on the Principle of
Unity/Oneness
One may argue that unity is only possible within the Bahá’í
community because all its adherents believe in the same principles and
values. An outsider may wonder whether the principle of unity is
actualised globally. The Bahá’í believe is that the Bahá’í teachings
assert global unity and not only that of the Bahá’í community. This
unity, however, starts from within the Bahá’í community (and from
the actions of many like-minded people). The Universal House of
Justice, in the Promise of World Peace, encourage the people of the
world to examine the Bahá’í communities around the world as an
example of what a united world would look like in the future.21 It is,
of course, naive to think that unity, whether within the Bahá’í
community or in the wider society, will be established without any
difficulties or complications. Indeed, the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
provide the outline and the driving force for unity, but painstaking
efforts are needed at both individual and community levels to achieve
it. The Bahá’í institutions at the local, national and international
levels help establish and preserve the unity within the Bahá’í
community,
and
work
with
individuals,
organizations
and
governments, as appropriate, to promote unity outside of the Bahá’í
community as well. At the local level, these are achieved through
various community and core activities such as observing Bahá’í Holy
Days, children’s classes, junior youth and youth activities, devotional
gatherings and study circles, encouraging women’s participation in
social and other activities, and Bahá’í summer and winter schools. As
a community-building exercise, the general public is actively invited
to participate in these activities and to work together with the
Bahá’ís to bring about unity. A sense of belonging to the community
generates a willingness in people to accept responsibility to help each
other and to commit to the development of the whole community.
These collective actions can help diminish difficulties within and
outside the Bahá’í community.
On the practical level, Bahá’ís associate with people of all
backgrounds in their effort to follow Bahá’u’lláh’s exhortations,
striving to create a society that is based on unity and love of
humanity. The concept of ‘unity in diversity’ is what the Bahá’í
writings advocates as a practical demonstration of unity that will

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
protect oneness from uniformity. Elaborating on this, William
Hatcher and Douglas Martin wrote:
We will arrive at unity, but rather by an increased awareness
of and respect for the intrinsic value of each separate culture,
and indeed, of each individual. It is not diversity itself, which
is deemed the cause of conflict, but rather our immature
attitude towards it, our intolerance and prejudice.22
To attain unity in diversity, consideration is given by the Bahá’í
community to teaching the concept of world citizenship as part of
the education of every child.
The core principle of unity can be challenged because currently
there are many obstacles for the transformation of consciousness,
such as doubts, misconceptions, prejudices, suspicions and narrow
self-interest. Such challenges require the society to ‘... change its
attitudes before a solution to social problems can be found.’23
Although there are challenges, the Bahá’í community is in a dynamic
state of transformation with a culture of learning and with confident
facing
challenges.
This
approach
promotes
the
positive
transformation of individuals and families into a new generation.
However, it depends on how the Bahá’í community adjusts itself with
the challenges of the larger society they are living in it. The Bahá’í
writings provide a number of principles that, taken together with a
basic spiritual transformation in society, show the pathway for
sustainable living and guide communities towards a more sustainable
future. One such belief is an understanding of human nature, which
encourages us to re-examine who we are and what our purpose in life
is? Universal and compulsory education, elimination of all kinds of
prejudices, the harmony of science and religion, and independent
investigation of truth, Bahá’í method of decision making through the
democratic approach of consultation are some of the spiritual
principles strongly suggested in the Bahá’í writings as catalyst and
processes of strengthening oneness.
Today the effects of the gradual application of the spirit of unity,
such as the rejection of racial prejudices, the greater awareness of the
need to protect the environment, the recognition of a need for
political unity, migration and refugee crisis has led to recognize
positive aspects of human potential, recognizing principles of

Reflections on the Principle of Unity/Oneness
spirituality to reduce absolute poverty, the acceptance of gender
equality in many societies, and the greater awareness of human rights,
are apparent in the wider society. The recognition and application of
these measures would gradually strengthen the principle of oneness.



NOTES
1 Universal House of Justice. Message of 17 October 2017, to all who
celebrate the Glory of God.
2 Ibid. Message dated 20 October 1983.
3 Universal House of Justice, The Promise of World Peace, pp. 13-14.
4 The word ‘oneness’ translated into English word for ‘one’ is the Greek
word, ‘heis’, which means, ‘one.’ It implies being whole or complete. The
Merriam-Webster dictionary defines the term ‘one’ as follows: Having the
value of one — used to refer to a single person or thing.
5 The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines unity as follows: “The state of
being in full agreement; a way of combining the parts in a work of art or
literature so that they seem to belong together.”
6 Alimorad Davoodi.
7 Universal House of Justice, letter dated 29 January 2014 to the Bahá’í
youth in Iran.
8 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, p. 22.
9 Joseph Kitagawa. Quoted in Stephen Lambden, Bahá’í and Globalization,
ed., p. 17.
10 Universal House of Justice. Wellspring of Guidance, pp. 131-136.
11 Ibid. Messages of the Universal House of Justice 1968 — 1973, pp. 44-50.
12 Ibid. Ridván 2017.
13 Ibid. Quoted in Power of the Covenant, Part Two, Toronto: Bahá’í
Canada Publications 1976, p. 17.
14 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. A selection of extracts from the Bahá’í writings on family
life and marriage, p. 5.
15 Universal House of Justice, Ridván 2012.
16 Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012.
17 Ibid. Letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of Argentina, 25 July 1984.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


18 From a talk by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá given at a Nineteen Day Feast in London,
England, 29 December 1912, quoted in Bahá’í News Letter, 33 (July 1929),
pp. 1-2.
19 Moojan Momen. Encyclopaedia Iranica, New York: Columbia University,
2013.
20 Universal House of Justice. Message of 23 May 2011.
21 Cf. The Promise of World Peace, part IV: ‘If the Bahá’í experience can
contribute in whatever measure to reinforcing hope in the unity of the
human race, we are happy to offer it as a model for study.’
22 William Hatcher and Douglas Martin. The Bahá’í Faith, p. 78.
23 Universal House of Justice. Statement dated 27 April 1988.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
“This is the One Who Hath Glorified the Son”
JoAnn Borovicka
Introduction
In the tablet entitled the Lawh-i-Aqdas (Most Holy Tablet), also
known as the Tablet to the Christians, Bahá’u’lláh refers to multiple
biblical verses regarding the Return of Christ and unequivocally
states that He is the fulfillment of these prophecies. One such
prophecy comes from the Gospel of John:
I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear
them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you
into all the truth; for he will not speak on his own, but will
speak whatever he hears, and he will declare to you the things
that are to come. He will glorify me, because he will take
what is mine and declare it to you. [John 16:12-14]
In reference to the above verses and in declaration of His Own
Mission Bahá’u’lláh states,
This is the Word which the Son concealed, when to those
around Him He said: “Ye cannot bear it now.” ... Say, verily,
He hath testified of Me, and I do testify of Him. Indeed, He
hath purposed no on other than Me....Verily, He Who is the
Spirit of Truth is come to guide you unto all truth. He

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
speaketh not as prompted by His own self, but as bidden by
Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. [Lawh-i-Aqdas π7,
10]
With clear and straightforward language, Bahá’u’lláh claims to be
the Word spoken of by Jesus Christ, to bring that which Christ
necessarily concealed in the Christian Revelation, and to be
“purposed” by Christ. Furthermore, in a statement that expresses His
solidarity with Christ, Bahá’u’lláh states, “Say, this is the One Who
hath glorified the Son and hath exalted His Cause” [Lawh-i-Aqdas π11].
Questions arise, such as: How does Bahá’u’lláh glorify Christ and
exalt His Cause? And in what manner should followers of Bahá’u’lláh
do the same?
For the purpose of understanding more about this aspect of
Bahá’u’lláh’s life and mission, this paper will examine three ways in
which Bahá’u’lláh glorifies the Son and exalts His Cause, these being
that Bahá’u’lláh quotes, explains, and defends Christian scripture;
supplements Christ’s teachings according to the needs of a fast-
evolving society; and speaks of Jesus Christ as an existing eternal
spiritual Reality. The duty of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh to teach
these aspects of Christ’s life and mission will be examined.
Quoting, Explaining, and Defending Christian
Scripture
Bahá’u’lláh glorifies Christ and exalts His Cause by inextricably
linking His Revelation with that of Christ and by confirming New
Testament passages and explaining their meanings. For example, in
Gems of Divine Mysteries Bahá’u’lláh quotes prophecies about a
mighty personage represented in fantastic imagery in the Book of
Revelation: “His eyes were as a flame of fire”, and “brass-like were
His feet”, and “out of His mouth goeth a two-edged sword”
[Revelation 1:14-16; 2:18; 19:15]. Bahá’u’lláh states that these verses are
obviously not to be interpreted literally, then challenges the reader to
reflect on the scripture’s inner meanings. Those verses are, He states,
“of such surpassing eloquence and clarity as to mark the loftiest
heights of utterance and the epitome of wisdom” [GDM π72].
Bahá’u’lláh then proceeds to explain, in a seven-paragraph
commentary, the truths hidden within those verses. Through His

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
explanation we learn that the imagery refers to the qualities, powers,
and circumstances of the Promised One.
Additional examples in which Bahá’u’lláh as well as the Báb and
'Abdu’l-Bahá embrace biblical Scripture and explain its meanings, can
be found throughout the Bahá’í Writings.1 Although in today’s world
there is much cynicism about biblical scripture,2 the Bahá’í Writings
show absolute respect for both the Hebrew and Christian
Testaments. Referring to the Book of the Revelation, widely
acknowledged to be one of the most challenging books of the
Christian Testament in terms of its seemingly “baffling and
impenetrable” imagery,3 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphatically states, “This is the
truth and what truth can be greater than that announced by the
Revelation of St. John the Divine?” [SWAB no. 3.2]
In addition to glorifying Christ and exalting His Cause by
explaining verses from the Christian Testament, the Central Figures
of the Bahá’í Faith often quote Christian scriptures solely to draw on
the spiritual truths that they contain. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá includes
references to the Christian scriptures in most of His Tablets of the
Divine Plan (one of three charters of the Bahá’í Faith), thereby
demonstrating that understanding of the Bible is essential to the
teaching effort. For example, in His April 8, 1916 Tablet to the
United States and Canada, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “In short, O ye
believers of God! Exalt your effort and magnify your aims. His
Holiness Christ says: Blessed are the poor, for theirs shall be the
Kingdom of Heaven” [TDP no. 6.12]. We can speculate that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá used that quotation because those to whom He was talking were
familiar with that biblical verse — He was speaking to His audience in
the language of their religious tradition. In doing so, He also honors
the Christian scripture.
Bahá’u’lláh not only quotes and explains Christian scriptures, but
also defends the spiritual integrity of these texts against claims that
their teachings have been corrupted. He states,
We have also heard a number of the foolish of the earth
assert that the genuine text of the heavenly Gospel doth not
exist amongst the Christians .... How grievously they have
erred! How oblivious of the fact that such a statement
imputeth the gravest injustice and tyranny to a gracious and

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
loving Providence! How could God, when once the Day-star
of the beauty of Jesus had disappeared from the sight of His
people ... cause His holy Book, His most great testimony
amongst His creatures, to disappear also? .... What law could
be their stay and guide? [KI 89]
In addition to quoting, explaining, and defending the Christian
scriptures, Bahá’u’lláh glorifies Christ and exalts His Cause as He
adopts the literary style of the Christian Beatitudes and continues
them in the Lawh-i-Aqdas.4 The Beatitudes (or Blessings) are found in
the gospel verses commonly referred to as the Sermon on the Plain (in
Luke 6) and the Sermon on the Mount (in Matthew 5). These
“sermons” summarize many of Christ’s teachings such as the
importance of justice, woe to the oppressor, the law of forgiveness,
the call for unconditional love, the need for sacrificial service, and
the necessity of building one’s life on sound spiritual principles. The
delivery is in a distinctive style. The following is an excerpt:
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of
heaven.
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. [Matthew
5:3-5]
Bahá’u’lláh reveals twenty-one verses in the style of the Beatitudes
in His closing passages of the Lawh-i-Aqdas. The following is an
excerpt:
Say: Blessed the slumberer who is awakened by My Breeze.
Blessed the lifeless one who is quickened through My reviving
breaths.
Blessed the eye that is solaced by gazing at My beauty.
Blessed the wayfarer who directeth his steps towards the
Tabernacle of My glory and majesty. [Lawh-i-Aqdas]
Bahá’u’lláh’s stylistic embrace and continuation of the Beatitudes
honors the Christian Beatitudes and is a literary reminder that

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
Bahá’u’lláh and Jesus Christ “are the same Luminaries and the self-
same Mysteries” [GDM π44].
Because Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá show reverence for and use
biblical scripture in Their teaching, it follows that Bahá’ís should do
the same; that is, to reverently quote and explain its verses in light of
the Bahá’í Writings, particularly when teaching the Faith to those
from a biblical tradition. A question that sometimes arises about this
topic revolves around the value of studying or quoting biblical verses
when the biblical text lacks the word-for-word authenticity of the
Bahá’í Writings. Indeed, it is widely acknowledged by biblical
scholars that the New Testament texts were composed by many
writers and editors after the Ascension of Christ and that the
scriptures may not represent Christ’s exact words.5 In this regard, the
biblical text does not have the word-for-word authenticity of the
Bahá’í Writings as the revealed Word of God.6 This knowledge is, of
course, essential in placing the biblical scriptures in the context of
progressive revelation and in understanding the unique authority of
the Bahá’í Writings. It would be important to share this knowledge
with wisdom when teaching the Faith. However, it should also be
noted that in the hundreds of examples of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá quoting or explaining biblical references, there is not one
incident (found by this author) in which a biblical verse was
referenced along with a disclaimer that the biblical text may not
represent the exact words of the Christ, or that a book of the
Christian scriptures just quoted may not be completely authentic. On
the contrary, the Christian text is referenced in a straightforward
manner that honors that text as scripture.
When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was in London, He was invited to write an
inscription in a church Bible. He wrote: “THIS book is the Holy
Book of God, of celestial Inspiration. It is the Bible of Salvation, the
Noble Gospel. It is the mystery of the Kingdom and its light. It is the
Divine Bounty, the sign of the guidance of God” [ABL 17]. Of course,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá knew the historical circumstances surrounding the
biblical texts and the degree to which they could or could not be
considered authentic. Yet He wrote of these scriptures and referenced
them in such terms as “the Divine Bounty” and “the sign of the
guidance of God.” This is the spirit in which Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá quote and explain Christian scriptures and it would be

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
altogether appropriate and, indeed, incumbent upon the followers of
Bahá’u’lláh to do the same.
Christ’s Teachings Supplemented
A second way in which Bahá’u’lláh glorifies Christ and exalts His
Cause is that He supplements Christ’s teachings according to the
needs of a fast-evolving society. The use of the word “supplements”
may come as a surprise to some; however, this word was specifically
chosen for this context by Shoghi Effendi. In the following excerpt
from God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi states that Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation “supplements” the teachings of previous Revelations:
The
Revelation
identified
with
Bahá’u’lláh
abrogates
unconditionally all the Dispensations gone before it ... [and]
supplements their teachings with such laws and ordinances as
conform to the imperative needs, and are dictated by the
growing receptivity, of a fast evolving and constantly
changing society. [GPB 100]
Because the Bahá’í Faith claims to abrogate the social laws and
organizational structures that were revealed or that evolved in the
previous Dispensations, the “teachings” referred to in the above
quotation; that is, those teachings that are supplemented, must be the
foundational spiritual teachings of earlier religions. While these
spiritual teachings are changeless and eternal, with each succeeding
Revelation they are supplemented with teachings for greater
understandings and wider applications commensurate with new
human capacity. The Cause of Bahá’u’lláh glorifies Christ and exalts
His Cause by supplementing Christ’s teachings according to the needs
of this age.
The inevitable need for the teachings of the Christian Revelation
to be supplemented is stated in the Gospel of John. The following
verses attributed to Christ indicate that Christ had more to say to His
followers but was restricted due to the human capacity of the time:
I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear
them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you
into all the truth; for he will not speak on his own, but will

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
speak whatever he hears, and he will declare to you the things
that are to come. [John 16:12-13]
In reference to these verses, Bahá’u’lláh states that His Revelation
contains that which Christ had necessarily concealed: This is the
Word which the Son concealed, when to those around Him He said:
“Ye cannot bear it now” [Lawh-i-Aqdas π4]. To examine this
supplementation dynamic, this section will look at three Christian
topics: oneness, salvation, and the Kingdom of God on earth.
In the Epistle to the Galatians (attributed to St. Paul) there is a
radical statement concerning the oneness of the followers of Christ:
“There is no longer Jew or Greek, there is no longer slave or free,
there is no longer male and female; for all of you are one in Christ
Jesus” [Galatians 3:28]. This verse harmonizes with other teachings in
the Christian scriptures, including the entire 17th chapter of John
which is a prayer in which Christ states His oneness with His
followers and with God. An excerpt reads: “And the glory which Thou
gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as We are
one” [John 17:22].
In the Bahá’í Revelation, Bahá’u’lláh supplements Christ’s
teachings on oneness by clarifying that the oneness of humanity is a
truth that holds irrespective of gender, ethnicity, class, or
nationality. These points have not always been clear in Christian
history, as evidenced by the use of certain Christian scriptures to
preach ethnic exclusivity, promote the subjugation of women, and
defend slavery.7 In repeatedly proclaiming the oneness of mankind,
Bahá’u’lláh clearly teaches that all “men and women are equal in the
sight of God” [PUP 174] and deserving of equal resources, education,
and opportunity. Bahá’u’lláh is the first Manifestation of God in this
Cycle to abolish slavery in writing. He states: “It is forbidden you to
trade in slaves, be they men or women. It is not for him who is
himself a servant to buy another of God’s servants, and this hath
been prohibited in His Holy Tablet” [KA π72]. Addressing another
aspect of the oneness of humanity, Bahá’u’lláh teaches that mankind
is one regardless of religious orientation: “There is perfect
brotherhood underlying humanity, for all are servants of one God
and belong to one family under the protection of divine providence”
[PUP 129]. He also specifies that humanity’s oneness transcends

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
geographical and political boundaries: “The earth is but one country,
and mankind its citizens” [GWB CXVII]. Thus, in a multitude of clear
and straightforward teachings and laws, Bahá’u’lláh supplements
Christ’s teachings regarding the oneness of humanity.
A second way that Bahá’u’lláh supplements Christ’s teachings has
to do with the topic of salvation, expanding it from focus on the
individual to mankind as a whole. Shoghi Effendi explains:
The Revelation associated with the Faith of Jesus Christ
focused attention primarily on the redemption of the
individual and the molding of his conduct, and stressed, as its
central theme, the necessity of inculcating a high standard of
morality and discipline into man, as the fundamental unit in
human society. Nowhere in the Gospels do we find any
reference to the unity of nations or the unification of
mankind as a whole. When Jesus spoke to those around Him,
He addressed them primarily as individuals rather than as
component parts of one universal, indivisible entity. The
whole surface of the earth was as yet unexplored, and the
organization of all its peoples and nations as one unit could,
consequently, not be envisaged, how much less proclaimed or
established. [PDC 119]
Bahá’u’lláh has supplemented Christian teachings by enlarging the
concept of salvation to include humanity collectively. He states,
“Verily, He [Jesus] said: ‘Come ye after Me, and I will make you to
become fishers of men.’ In this day, however, We say: ‘Come ye after
Me, that We may make you to become the quickeners of mankind’”
[PDC 119-20]. The Bahá’í Writings teach principles and practices
required for the unification, advancement, and salvation of all of the
peoples of the world, including the necessity of universal compulsory
education, the need for a universal auxiliary language, and the
requirement for all of the kings and rulers of the earth to form a
tribunal of nations to consult on the best interest of the people of
the world [see PB 111-122].
A third example of how Bahá’u’lláh supplements Christ’s teachings
has to do with expectations of the Kingdom of God on earth. In the
Christian scriptures, the Lord’s Prayer states the assurance that: “Thy
Kingdom come, Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven” [Matthew

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
6:10]. Understandings of this verse have varied widely.8 The
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh supplements this teaching through the
principles and practices already mentioned and by introducing the
Bahá’í Administrative Order, a unique design for human organization
shaped by principles of social justice — an administrative framework
upon which spiritual principles and practices can find full human
expression and which is inherently protected from the corruption of
power. Bahá’u’lláh’s Administrative Order provides for the practical
and spiritual realization of Christ’s teachings concerning the
Kingdom of God on earth. When Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings are
understood as described by Shoghi Effendi — as supplemental to (not
unseating, usurping, or supplanting) the foundational teachings of
Christ — the way is eased for productive Bahá’í/Christian dialogue.
Inherent in the recognition that the Bahá’í Faith supplements
Christ’s teachings is the acknowledgement that the Christian
Revelation played an essential part in preparing the way for the
Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh. In the Persian Bayan, the Báb explicitly
states that while recognition of the Dayspring of Revelation in each
Dispensation is essential to true knowledge, one should praise and
show gratitude to former Revelations:
True knowledge, therefore, is the knowledge of God, and this
is none other than the recognition of His Manifestation in
each Dispensation. Nor is there any wealth save in poverty in
all save God and sanctity from aught else but Him—a state
that can be realized only when demonstrated towards Him
Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation. This doth not mean,
however, that one ought not to yield praise unto former
Revelations. On no account is this acceptable, inasmuch as it
behooveth man, upon reaching the age of nineteen, to render
thanksgiving for the day of his conception as an embryo. For
had the embryo not existed, how could he have reached his
present state? Likewise had the religion taught by Adam not
existed, this Faith would not have attained its present stage.
Thus consider thou the development of God's Faith until the
end that hath no end. [PB V, 4; SWB p. 89]
However one may express the importance of recognizing the
Manifestation of God for today, this expression must harmonize with

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the Bahá’í mandate to show praise and gratitude for the teachings of
Christ (as well as other Manifestations) and to recognize that the
Bahá’í teachings are supplemental to Christ’s religion.
Christ as an existing eternal spiritual Reality
Bahá’u’lláh states, “This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in
the past, eternal in the future” [KA π182]. To what is He referring? In
light of the Bahá’í principle of progressive revelation, this passage
can be understood as referring to the Voice of God expressed
through all of the divine Messengers and the spiritual foundation that
unites all religions. It follows, then, that from a Bahá’í perspective, it
would be correct to say that the foundational teachings of Christ, as
well as the spiritual reality of Christ, are eternal and changeless.
At this point, one might wonder how the mission of Bahá’u’lláh
glorifies Christ and exalts His Cause while at the same time
abrogating
unconditionally
the
Dispensation
associated
with
Christianity. Indeed, Shoghi Effendi states, “The Revelation
identified with Bahá’u’lláh abrogates unconditionally all the
Dispensations gone before it” [GPB 100]. However, further study
reveals a qualifying distinction in this regard. Shoghi Effendi explains
that while abrogating earlier Dispensations, “the Revelation, of which
Bahá’u’lláh is the source and center, abrogates none of the religions
that have preceded it” [WOB 57-58]. Dispensations are abrogated,
religions are not. In this context “Dispensations” indicate systems of
governance
and
social
regulations
identified
with
various
Manifestations
of
God,
whereas
“religions”
indicate
the
“fundamentals of Their doctrines” [PDC 108]. Shoghi Effendi
explains:
The Revelation, of which Bahá’u’lláh is the source and center,
abrogates none of the religions that have preceded it, nor
does it attempt, in the slightest degree, to distort their
features or to belittle their value. It disclaims any intention
of dwarfing any of the Prophets of the past, or of whittling
down the eternal verity of their teachings. It can, in no wise,
conflict with the spirit that animates their claims, nor does it
seek to undermine the basis of any man's allegiance to their
cause. Its declared, its primary purpose is to enable every

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
adherent of these Faiths to obtain a fuller understanding of
the religion with which he stands identified, and to acquire a
clearer apprehension of its purpose. [WOB 57-58]
Bahá’u’lláh
uncompromisingly
upholds
the
eternal
verities
enshrined in the Christian Revelation. Indeed, according to the above
passage, one purpose of the Bahá’í Faith is to enable those who
identify with the Christian religion to obtain a fuller understanding
of the eternal verities taught by Christ and to better grasp His
purpose. While the Bahá’í Writings state that the laws and
organizational structures associated with Christianity (the Christian
Dispensation) have been abrogated, the Writings never speak of the
Spirit of Christ as abrogated. The Bahá’í Writings confirm the power
and relevance of Christ. For example, in reference to the crucifixion
of Jesus Christ, Bahá’u’lláh states the blessings of turning toward
Christ: “He it is Who purified the world. Blessed is the man who,
with a face beaming with light, hath turned towards Him” [GWB
XXXVI]. The eternal and changeless dimension of Christ is expressed
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in this passage from Some Answered Questions:
“Prophethood is the station of the heart of Christ, and the Holy
Spirit is the station of His spirit” [SAQ 27:8]. From these and many
other like passages, it is evident that Christ and Bahá’u’lláh are
continuous in their purpose.
Unequivocally and without the least reservation it [the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh] proclaims all established religions
to be divine in origin, identical in their aims, complementary
in their functions, continuous in their purpose, and
indispensable in their value to mankind. [WOB 58]
In His talks to audiences in the West (as recorded in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
in London, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, and Paris Talks)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s consistently expresses Bahá’í belief in the existing
eternal Reality of the Spirit of Christ. Notice how in the following
excerpts ‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of the spiritual bounty of Christ not as
a power abrogated, but as an existing eternal spiritual Reality:
Christ is ever in the world of existence. He has never
disappeared out of it.... Rest assured that Christ is present.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The Spiritual beauty we see around us today is from the
breathings of Christ. [ABL 41]
Although the people possess external eyes, yet the insight of
the soul is blind ... and the bounties of His Holiness Christ
save souls from these conditions. [PUP 626]
We must follow His example. We must emulate the Prophets
of God. We must follow Jesus Christ. [PUP 42]
... the reality of Christ is an unlimited essence. The infinite
and unlimited Reality cannot be bounded by any limitation.
[PUP 443]
Jesus Christ lived two thousand years ago. Today we behold
His manifest signs; His light is shining; His sovereignty is
established; His traces are apparent; His bounties are
effulgent. [PUP 308]
The reality of Christ was always in heaven and will always be.
[PUP 245]
Jesus Christ established the religion of God through love. His
sovereignty is everlasting. [PUP 211]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Perfect Example, demonstrates that it is correct
for Bahá’ís to think and speak of Jesus Christ as “an unlimited
essence” Whose bounties can “save souls.” Indeed, the station of
Jesus Christ as an existing eternal spiritual Reality is conveyed in
Bahá’u’lláh’s identity as “Christ returned in the Glory of the Father”
[GPB 230]. Bahá’u’lláh states, “If ye be intent on crucifying once again
Jesus, the Spirit of God, put Me to death, for He hath once more, in
My person, been made manifest unto you” [GWB XLVII]. From this
perspective, the entirety of the Bahá’í Revelation is, in a sense, the
manifestation of Jesus Christ, the Spirit of God, the existing eternal
spiritual Reality.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Life and Mission
Conclusion
In the above study I have attempted to demonstrate three ways
that Bahá’u’lláh glorifies Christ and exalts His Cause, those being
that Bahá’u’lláh quotes, explains, and defends Christian scripture;
supplements the spiritual teachings of Christ; and refers to Jesus
Christ as an existing eternal spiritual Reality. This is not a definitive
list, but it is a practical one in that these actions can and, I would
propose, should find expression in the followers of Bahá’u’lláh. In
the manner of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’ís can quote,
explain, and defend Christian scripture; teach how Bahá’u’lláh
supplements the spiritual teachings of Christ; and speak of Jesus
Christ as an existing eternal spiritual Reality. These are three
substantial ways in which Bahá’ís can honor and accurately convey
Bahá’u’lláh’s Self-proclaimed mission as “This is the One Who hath
glorified the Son and hath exalted His Cause” [Lawh-i-Aqdas].
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Allison Jr., Dale C. “Matthew” in The New Oxford Annotated Bible. Ed.
Michael D. Coogan. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010, pp. 844-
886.
Bauckham, Richard. “Revelation” in The New Oxford Annotated Bible. Ed.
Michael D. Coogan. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010, pp. 1287-
1306.
Borg, Marcus J. and John Dominic Crossan. The First Paul: Reclaiming the
Radical Visionary Behind the Church’s Conservative Icon. New York:
HarperCollins, 2009.
Bristow, John T. What Paul Really Said About Women: The Apostle's
Liberating Views on Equality in Marriage, Leadership, and Love. New
York: HarperCollins, 1991.
Borovicka, JoAnn. Light of the Kingdom: Biblical Topics in the Bahá’í
Writings. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2016.
Byers, Andrew. “Is Christian Cynicism a Spiritual Sickness?” From
www.christianitytoday.com/biblestudies/articles
/spiritualformation/faithwithoutillusions.html
Carter, Jimmy. A Call to Action: Women, Religion, Violence, and Power.
New York: Simon & Schuster, 2014.
Elliott, Neil. Liberating Paul — The Justice of God and the Politics of the
Apostle. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1994.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Gager, John G. Reinventing Paul. Oxford: University Press, 2000.
“Resurrection of Christ” Memorandum from the Research Department of
the Universal House of Justice, Sept. 14, 1987


NOTES
1 See Borovicka, Light of the Kingdom for a compilation of Bahá’í teachings
on biblical topics.
2 Byers
3 Bauckham, p. 1287
4 See the Lawh-i-Aqdas π23
5 See Borovicka, pp. 191-193.
6 “The Bahá’ís believe that God’s Revelation is under His care and protection
and that the essence, or essential elements, of what His Manifestations
intended to convey has been recorded and preserved in Their Holy Books.
However, as the sayings of the ancient Prophets were written down some
time later, we cannot categorically state, as we do in the case of the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, that the words and phrases attributed to Them
are Their exact words.” (From a letter of the Universal House of Justice,
dated August 9, 1984, to an individual believer, cited in “Resurrection of
Christ” Memorandum from the Research Department of the Universal
House of Justice, September 14, 1987)
7 For studies and commentary on the use of Christian scripture to teach
ethnic exclusivity, preach gender superiority, and defend slavery, see
Borg, Bristow, Carter, Elliott, Gager.
8 See Allison, p. 856

Laozi, A Lost Prophet?
The Challenge of the Dao De Jing for the
Bahá’í Universe of Discourse
Roland Faber
1. Why Daoism, Laozi and the Dao De Jing?
Daoism is one of the oldest religions.1 Its roots are lost in pre-
history. We find it arise amidst the fog of human awakening to
historical consciousness when it begins to manifest itself in old
mythological and symbolic archetypes of existence and impresses on
us patterns of human wisdom and insight into the nature of existence
that immediately strike a cord on various levels of human thought
and modes of feeling. It grew from a primordial and pre-confessional
mode of religion in the form of incarnations of a worldwide religious
consciousness of earlier times (although it has never disappeared
completely to this day),2 housed in shamanistic rhythms of living.3 As
a spiritual philosophy it arose and developed (at lest in their effect)
preeminently from the genius of one person and the medium of one
book4 to become a well-established worldview and way of life,
religion and cultural self-definition, expressive of the Chinese mind
and spirit: Meet the legendary sage Laozi and his incomparable book
of ancient, yet in its context novel and unexpected wisdom, the Laozi
or Dao De Jing!5
As the Bahá’í Faith recognizes all religions and wisdom traditions
to be the expression of one divine origin,6 the acknowledgement of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Daoism, Laozi and the Dao De Jing must be of preeminent
importance. They demand attention not only for the reconstruction
of one of the most influential streams of religious history of
humanity7 — as all religious streams are considered to be flowing into
the universal openness of the Bahá’í revelation, which receives them
as moments of one history of religious awakening and as past
expressions of it own pre-history.8 What is more, they command to
be heard in their own contributions to the future of humanity, as all
religions contribute their specific uniqueness to the unity of
religions,9 a unity which in the image of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá must be
understood as a unification by differentiation, where the manifold
highlights the beauty of this confluence.10
The coming considerations set out to frame this task in three
related facets: First, they want to demonstrate the uniqueness of the
contributions of Daoism especially as mediated through Laozi and
the Dao De Jing to a future universal religious consciousness that the
Bahá’í revelation is said to have instigated, although we might not yet
be able to see its future contours clearly or at all.11 Second, they want
to explicate resonances with and differences from the Bahá’í
universe, less in principles, as both traditions are overwhelmingly
compatible,12 but rather taking the(philosophical and religious)
emphases into account that renders Daoism enlightening beyond its
historical situatedness because of the genius of Laozi and the Laozi
and their reception throughout history.13 Third, such considerations
cannot avoid the question whether or not, if such a religion is one of
the major expressions of the one source that has also animated
Bahá’u’lláh, Daoism should be considered a genuine dispensation of a
divine Manifestation; whether or not, then, the Laozi must be read as
scripture, expressing the one revelation in a unique (historical) body;
and whether or not the figure of Laozi and the book of the Dao De
Jing should be considered a temple (haykal) of revelation14 in the
sense that we would accept for the so-called “Big Five” (Judaism,
Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism)15 with the addition of
Zoroastrianism, all of which Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi
Effendi recognized as genuine dispensations under the influence of a
Manifestation.16 In other words, are we with Laozi and the Dao De
Jing encountering a (lost) prophet and his book?17

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
Why should this be challenging to the Bahá’í universe of
discourse?18 Because compared with the “Big Five” (Hinduism,
Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity and Islam) and Zoroastrianism, the
Bahá’í writings entertain only scant references to other religions,19
such as “Chinese religions,” and in particular virtually none to
Daoism nor Laozi, nor the Dao De Jing.20 This in light of the fact
that we do find at least several references of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi
Effendi to China, Chinese religion(s)21 and especially Confucius,
although the exact status of these in the Bahá’í universe is far from
definite beyond any doubt either.22 Yet, since the absence of evidence
should not be taken as a sign for the evidence of absence,23 the fact
that the Bahá’í writings know of Confucianism, but emphasizes it as
an ethics with Confucius as an ethical reformer (as contrasted with
the Buddha as Manifestation and Buddhism as religion)24 — although
there are indications to the contrary25 — should make us even more
inclined to investigate the status of one of the “other” original
sources of religion and philosophy, wisdom and life in China, namely,
the tacit “presence” of Daoism in the legacy of Laozi and one of its
“constitutional” texts,26 the Dao De Jing.27 After approaching
Daoism, Laozi and the Dao De Jing historically and philosophically as
well as religiously and referencing resonances with the Bahá’í universe
of discourse, its principles and worldview, I will reflect on the
fascinating and rewarding question regarding the (potential) status of
Laozi in the Bahá’í universe of discourse. By connecting the insights
gathered, and in light of only scant evidence (but with some
arguments from the Bahá’í writings), I will not answer this question
definitively, but rather consider several alternatives of how to
potentially understand Laozi from a Bahá’í perspective, altogether
developing eight alternative views for future consideration.28
2. Defining “Daoism”
We can assume that some of the Daoist texts are very old,
predating the organization of a Daoist movement or religion. While
we may find estimations that some of these texts in their original
form (not the received texts) go back to the Zhou dynasty (1000
B.C.E. – 300 B.C.E.), in any “organized” form “Daoism” appears
around the beginning of the second century B.C.E. as an established
and distinct philosophy,29 but as religious identity, Daoism was

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
probably not organized before the movement of the Celestial Masters
in the second century C.E.30
In the west, serious attempts of understanding Daoist texts and
Daoism as a phenomenon can be dated only to the beginning of the
20th century C.E. The Dao De Jing, the book traditionally assigned to
the ancient sage Laozi, was only translated in the 1860s and the
preceding reception of Daoism in the west was littered with
prejudices: that it is a primitive wisdom tradition, closer to
primordial forms of shamanism than any western concept of religion
and even further removed from what could possibly count as
philosophy; that it represents an irrational, chaotic, even anarchic
approach to reality far removed from the understanding of
Confucianism as a “rational” wisdom then prevalent among
intellectuals and philosophers in the west receptive to Chinese
thought; that it is really a non-philosophy falling under the ban of
Plato on poets31 since they seek imagination instead of truth; and that
it seemed to have been too much involved in esoteric Chinese folk
practices like alchemy as to be taken seriously.32
However, as soon as the philosophical side of Daoism was
discovered to be actually of considerable interest in its contrasts to
western thought patterns, unfortunately, a new division was
introduced. Insofar as we can differentiate between the religion of
Daoism (Dao Jiao) and its philosophical texts, like the Dao De Jing
(Dao Jia),33 interests shifted to the excavation of the noble ideas
from the crude folk elements salvaging the philosophy from the
primitive religion, which to the dismay of the philosophical purist
exhibits the belief in ghosts and ancestral ceremonies or alchemical
endeavors in the search for physical immortality.34 Newer research
(conscious of such biases) has, however, shown that this is a short-
sided approach as both Daoist religion and philosophy are intimately
intertwined in the life of the people that followed and still follow
their teachings.35
Then again, as this integrated gestalt becomes more and more
visible today, we are forced to step outside of the western prejudices
regarding that which it grants the title of a religion.36 This is, of
course, a reminder that the phenomenon of religion and its wisdom as
well as its relationship to philosophical thought and insight are much
more complex, intricate and fascinating than the fairly recent western

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
definitions of religion would seem to suggest and (based on the Greek
antagonisms) its presumed opposition to philosophy would allow to
be discovered.37 Since one of the most profound claims of the Bahá’í
Faith is the unity of all religions and their divine origin,38 it is a good
exercise in this encounter to probe the Bahá’í universe of discourse as
it ventures outside of these pervasive western limitations whereby it
may discover a truly different way how religion can be lived and how
thought can “strangely” understand the world and its existential
grounds, how human beings can practice spiritual existence and for
what reason human beings express spiritual and religious aims socially
and intellectually.39
3. Revelation or Wisdom?
Yet another difference becomes quickly visible as long as one tries
grasping Daoism from the perspective of Abrahamic experiences and
thought patterns: there seems in early Chinese history not to have
been any claim (or concept) of revelation of a divinity or of a divine
messenger such as that which has structured the mutually related
Abrahamic traditions at least from the Hebrew’s experience of the
exodus from Egypt on.40 Hence, in her book on The Chinese
Religions and the Bahá’í Faith, Phyllis Chew leaves us with this
profound statement: “Thus, while the Baha'i Faith is established as a
revealed religion brought by a prophet-messenger, the Chinese
religion is not. The Chinese religion is a unique instance of a religion
without revelation, a religion with the sage as a central figure rather
than a prophet.”41 The sage is a holy figure or (like the early Greek
seeker of wisdom Pythagoras) a philosopher who teaches a method of
life and lives what he teaches,42 one who is versed in the mysteries of
the cosmos and how its rules influence human existence.43
Nevertheless, we must also not overlook that Daoism at certain
points in its development constructed notions that Bahá’ís
understand to be essential to their own identity — in the case of
Daoism virtually before any other religion, philosophy or cultural
pool of ideas: that the aim of society is the establishment of the Most
Great Peace, understood to include the whole of humanity, not just a
tribe or specific culture;44 that the notion of religion is not
necessarily a western invention as Daoism viewed itself self-
consciously as a religion (although just not in the western sense);45

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
that Daoism developed into a “state religion” — something Shoghi
Effendi expected to happen with countries of majority Bahá’í
populations;46 and most interestingly, that Daoism indeed developed
into a revealed religion revering scriptures and worshipping holy
figures such as Laozi as divine.47 Again, given such evidence we might
learn that wisdom and revelation are not necessarily opposing
categories48 even if the order of their appearance and their spiritual
relevance for the concrete life of the respective societies is not the
same as in the Abrahamic context.49
4. What is the Dao?
One important point must be mentioned before all else: all
Chinese religions (and philosophical schools) relate in one or another
way to the Dao, not only Daoism.50 Confucianism and other Chinese
schools (such as Legalism or Mohism) as well as Chinese Buddhism
also speak of and identify with the concept of the Dao even if they
perceive and conceive it differently.51 Nevertheless, in all Chinese
wisdom schools and religions (or intersecting religious streams)the
Dao presents what we could call ultimate reality. Accordingly, Alan
Watts, one of the most well known popularizers of the “strange”
imaginations and thoughts of Daoism and Buddhism in the west in
the second half of the 20th century, defines the Dao as “the mystery
that we can never understand — the unity that underlies the
opposites.”52 This “definition” gives us a first hint at the profound
nature of the concept and its importance, namely, besides any
particularities and pedantries to connect us with the world as a whole
in such a way that the most hidden secret of the inner workings of the
world is revealed: that there are no fixed oppositions or opposites;53
that all is always involved in the movement of one into the other; that
not divisive strive has the last word, but the harmony of oppositional
movements.54
Dao means the Way and the Method that the world movement is
exhibiting in everything.55 In this sense, all things are daos, actions
and activities engaged in such movements of overcoming oppositions
and creating ever-new harmonies. This world activity is what is
understood as the “natural” process of things.56 Nature (ziran) means
that which operates on it own; everything exists and proceeds by
itself, is “self-so.”57 The best one can do when one has gained this

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
insight is to let the Dao work through all actions one performs, that
is, if one does not try to act against the flow of the movements of
harmonization, but acts with it. In doing so, one reaches the height
of activity in accordance with the Dao as long as one does not
(coercively) act against its all-wise movements (wu wei).58 And if one
learns to live this way, one becomes a perfect human being
(zhenren).59
The Dao is the ultimate of ultimates, the unnamable, but it is
manifest in all phenomena (without being identical with them).60
“How deep and mysterious this unity is/How profound, how
great!/It is the truth beyond the truth, /the hidden within the
hidden/It is the path to all wonder/the gate to the essence of
everything.”61 We are reminded of similar Bahá’í expressions of
ultimate reality as can be found in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings indicating
the unknowable,62 but all-pervasive divine reality beyond any name
(al-haqq)63 and the mutuality of even these “opposites”64: “O Thou
Who art the most manifest of the manifest and the most hidden of
the hidden!” [PM #155]65
5. Who is Laozi?
Laozi figures as the “founder” of (philosophical) Daoism.66 Yet,
this description is already tainted by western misperceptions. Laozi
was for all intents and purposes a sage who lived in the 6th century
B.C.E., presumably before the Buddha. He was — trusting tradition —
a scribe and scholar at the exceptional library of the court of Zhou
(an extraordinary achievement in itself). In these traditions, he
appears as the teacher of Confucius, although this is less clear as he
may instead represent a culmination or personification of the
confluence
of
several
ancient
and
honored
traditions
and
personalities.67 Maybe he is just a literary figure identified with an
“Old Master” (Lao-Zi)68 who represents and functions as a
convergence of the old wisdom sayings of the Zhou time collected
into the Laozi or Dao De Jing. First mention of his identity as a
person is made long after he is supposed to have lived, namely, in the
Book of History (Shih Ji) around 150 B.C.E., which also makes
mention of “Daoism” as an already established philosophical school
at that time.69

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Laozi is often depicted as an old man with long white beard
(westerners may immediately identify someone else with this
description), riding a bull, riding to leave his country because no one
wants to hear his wisdom, or, much later, as a divinity in ornate attire
enthroned in heaven.70 The story is passed down that Confucius asked
Laozi for advice on rituals (li) related to ghosts and ancestors still
roaming the world and haunting, in the opinion of the people, their
families and villages. Laozi is presented here as a soul-guide who
knows how to perform rituals for the save passage of the departed or
to accompany the shamanic journey of the soul into spiritual
realms.71 In any case, the importance of this development of the
figure of Laozi with his growing myth and divinization over the next
millennium in the east is only underscored by his elation to the status
of one of the rare “axial” philosophical, religious and spiritual figures
in the west by which the German philosopher Karl Jasper’s famously
identified the revolutionary and decisive axial age of human
awakening to a new universal spiritual consciousness in a timeframe
of several centuries around the mid first millennium B.C.E., a status
only rivaled by figures such as Socrates, Zoroaster, the Buddha,
Confucius and Isaiah.72
These old stories already show influences of the two other
important religions of Chinese culture, Confucianism and Buddhism,
which will, in this triangulation, drive the dynamic of Chinese
religions and culture for the centuries to come.73 In Daoist lore,
Laozi is introduced as the sage by whom Daoism or certain Daoist
schools assert its superiority over Confucianism and Buddhism and
their related schools. He is the superior wise man. He was supposedly
born from a virgin after having been sixty (!) or so years in her body,
emerging an “old baby” when he finally came into this world (one
meaning of “Laozi” is “old boy”).74 That he is imagined to be the
superior sage can also be witnessed by the belief that when he left his
country he is said to have gone to India and to have taught the
Buddha or even to have been reborn as the Buddha.75
Here, as Bahá’ís will notice, a transformation takes place that
resonates with the Bahá’í teachings of recurrent Manifestations of
the divine. And in the case of Laozi, it is even a movement across
religions.76 In other instantiations of such a cyclical recurrence, the
divine figures like that of Hindu Avatars and the infinite Buddhas of

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
Mahayana generally remain within their own religious sphere to
express the uniqueness and identity of these traditions.77 An
interesting exception occurs with the Vaishnavite belief that the
Buddha is integral to the series of Avatars of Vishnu or Krishna.78 Yet
in this case, for similar reasons that Daoism taught that Laozi was
instructing or even becoming the Buddha, this crossing of religious
boundaries and integration of foreign or even hostile figures was
meant to demonstrate the superiority of the “parent” religion79 —
something Bahá’u’lláh has categorically rejected.80
6. What is the Laozi (or the Dao De Jing)?
The story of Laozi in the Book of History culminates in the
significant event of the creation of the Dao De Jing.81 In protest to
the unwise government of the Zhou, Laozi decides to from China.82
One may understand this move as spiritual retreat from political
machinations, or, by giving it a different twist, one could also view
this act as a more radical protest since it was assumed that to life in
China meant to be in the sphere of civilization while outside China
basically barbarism had the rule.83 Not only does such a political
protest in Laozi’s act of emigration, if it may be assumed, uncover
this so-called “civilization,” so held high by its powers-to-be, as itself
corrupt and barbarian.84 This highly symbolic statement also could
have implied that Laozi was forgoing the folk belief, or was
accepting the consequences of abandoning this belief, that one part
of the multilayered human soul must be buried in Chinese earth in
order for the departed person to have immortal life.85
Now, at the border, the guard, who is the silent hero of this story,
discovers that the approaching rider is Laozi (what a feat considering
the vast land that was and is China!), the famous sage, and after
hearing his story asks him, at least, before he leaves to write down his
wisdom so that future generations would not forever be bereft of his
insights and all knowledge of ultimate reality, and a life according to
its eternal laws would be lost. In one hour, so the story continues,
Laozi writes the whole wisdom of existence down in only five
thousand characters — the time dilation and brevity being the signs of
his extreme wisdom. Thus was created the Dao De Jing.86

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The received text of the Laozi is a collection87 of short, poetic,
mystical, ethical and political sayings, interspersed with longer
comments of explanation.88 It is structured into eighty-one chapters.
Note that this reflects nine to the second power, nine being the
Chinese number of the Emperor, heavenly order and long
lastingness89 — somewhat in resonance with the Bahá’í understanding
of the number nine, besides being the Abjad number of the word
bahá’.90 Further, the Laozi has two parts: the Dao Jing, which
explores the nature of ultimate reality (dao), and the De Jing, which
meditates on the cultivation of the virtues (de) of the Dao necessary
to become a sage and a perfect human being, or to rule justly and to
order society according to cosmic harmony.91
Research has shone that this is a very old structure, maybe finding
together as a collection as early as 500 B.C.E.,92 which we can already
find settled in the oldest extant versions of the text from around 300
B.C.E., excavated in the 1970s and 1990s.93 The characters of the
Laozi are painted on bamboo strips, which are attached to one
another and can be rolled up so as to not lose their integrity as a
whole. While over the centuries the order of the two parts may have
been reversed in some collections, the general structure and order of
the sayings are preserved.94 The characters are of ancient complexity,
and no translation can hope to fathom the depth of the field of
reference they invoke or to establish a final correct relationship
between them.95 This fact, and the perceived depth of insight that the
Laozi conveys, has led to one of the vastest libraries of commentaries
and translations of any Chinese classic, maybe only rivaled by that of
the Bible.96
7. Understanding Philosophical Daoism (Dao Jia)
Given all of these uncertainties, but also the astonishing integrity
of the text of the Dao De Jing, we can expect a great variety of
interpretations97 as the context changes over the course of time and
the transformations of Chinese culture, that is, as the text moves
through its use by different schools of thought98 and also begins to
serve a variety of political interests99 as well as the mutual discussions
and strives for supremacy with and between other Chinese religions,
especially Confucianism and Buddhism.100 If we try to situate the text
of the Laozi in its own process of becoming, we will, however, gain

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
some valuable insight in its meaning or, at least, some layers of its
perceived importance.
Here is one such attempt. The Laozi as well as Daoism as
philosophy in general should be understood as a reaction against
Confucianism (not as its origin).101 It explores an alternative to
Confucian imperialism that in comparison exhibits the characteristics
and implementation of a highly hierarchically stratified society, a
petrified system of education (canalizing mostly the control over of
the court scribes, religious representatives and other political
officials) and the worship of the court as means of political
unification of the diverse lands and regional powers. Daoism,
instead, appeals to the equality of all people and diverse peoples of
the realm, favors small integrated communities instead of large
political entities of military and economic power that shift wealth to
the political and religious elites, and, hence, intends to function as a
model of life in which power is distributed among a vast multiplicity
of communities.102
This counter-imagination of living together is in itself obviously a
dangerous idea to entertain in a society that is based on idealized and
divinized political and religious powers, and its reservoir of
alternative ideas and ways of living has, in fact, led to occasional
political
tumult
and
insurrections
against
the
sanctioned
establishment.103 The concurrent Daoist ethics that grounds this
(some would say) anarchic understanding of society has left us with
one of the earliest instantiations of cultural, political and spiritual
relativism, which was based on the insistence on individual
responsibility (instead of obedience to authority), mutual dependence
of all people and institutions (instead of divinization of higher
institutions and personalities), and a life that is oriented toward
living in harmony with nature (ziran) and its cycles (instead of the
excesses if poisoning social constructions).104
The inner working of this universe of discourse is based on the
precise understanding of the Dao as the way and method of living —
or skill at living.105 The Dao, here, is not a description of reality or
ultimate reality, for that matter, but prescribes a way of acting with
the flow of nature (and the nature of things).106 The Dao does not tell
us what is or why it is, but how acts can be performed in accordance
to the rules of the natural, all-pervading movement of the Dao. If

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
one “follows” the Dao, one knows how to perform something the
right way.107 The Dao cannot be known (theoretically); it must be
done. One must train in the Dao’s way by learning to see the signs of
the natural movement of all things and by acting accordingly. To
follow the Dao is akin to the know-how of cutting wood the right
way, that is, not counter to its nature, its appearance, its structures
and patterns. One cuts wood without effort if one knows how to
follow these natural forms given in the pattern of a piece of wood;108
one traces the Dao if one knows how a situation has arisen and will
develop and without effort follows its development.109
Daoism’s relativistic claim is based on a divergent interpretation
from Confucianism and other (political) schools.110 For Confucian
philosophy, the Dao is a universal law that dictates the social
relationships as a norm-system one must follow in order not to lose
ones face or honor.111 Mohism embraced this approach and
understood the Dao to represent a norm of existence we must
pursue.112 Yet, Daoism critiqued this approach and instead
understood at least the universal Dao not as normative rule, because
any norm is itself a dao that needs a justification in a higher norm
(dao). This leads to an infinite regress without finding a highest norm
from which the hierarchical claim of Confucianism could be
justified.113Yet the consequence Daoism draws from this insight is not
that this regress is absurd, as western logic might have concluded, but
that the universal Dao is beyond any norm, that the ultimate is
relativistic, depriving us of any ability for the deduction of norms.114
Hence, social order is uncovered here as relative, that is, as a social
construction, not as a natural necessity; and, hence, political power
must be considered as relative, too.115
The Daoist Dao is, therefore, set against and highly critical of any
fixed norm system and in some radical sense anarchic (or based on
spontaneity).116 It proposes that there cannot be only one norm
system of society one must follow as a divine order, but suggests
many equally valid ways of living together. The natural norm is, now,
that of a nature that moves in cycles of harmonization, universally
and in the mutual relationship of all things, persons, forms and
structures.117 As nature does not force any natural norm or law, many
societies can co-exist and coinhere without force and with different

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
rules according to their situatedness and internal and external
relationships in any given moment of their mutual interference.118
This Daoist interpretation of reality reveals two related
perspectives: On the one hand, the Dao is mystical as it is inaccessible
and beyond any articulation (as a norm); it is mirrored only in the
experience of the experienced master, sage and perfect human
being.119 On the other hand, the Dao is relativistic, but in the sense of
the mutual relationship of all beings in their coinherent movement of
living together; and the daos (acts, norms) do not “exist” out there,
but must be created in the flow of things and acts.120
8. Understanding the Dao De Jing
The inherent paradox that the Laozi displays in such a mystical and
relativistic understanding of the Dao is staggering, because it conveys
the counter-movement of two in themselves coherent, but mutually
seemingly excluding expressions of existence. On the one hand, the
mystical insight of someone following the Dao would indicate that
one can know how to act in accordance with the Dao; but, on the
other hand, because of the relativistic side there is no fixed anchor in
any ultimate expression of the Dao that justifies any particular
direction of acting as normative or “in the right way.” In other
words, to follow the Dao means that there is no “right” Dao to
pursue. Only if one gains the insight that there is not one “right” Dao
to follow, one actually follows the Dao.121
The ethical implications are of utmost relevance here: one should
not cling to tradition, rigid rightness and correct language if one
wants to follow the Dao. The wisdom of achieving perfection does
not appear by following preconceived virtues, but by learning to
performing “virtuosity” in living (de), the ethical impulse of the
Dao.122 The Laozi explains that it is not nature that is ambivalent, but
society; society’s constructed norms are forceful misconstructions of
the flow of the Dao in the interconnectedness of all things.123 It is
not nature, but society that with its social norms and tainted
language creates the very desires that deprives us of deeper insight
into the Dao. It is not nature, but society that is at the root of evils
as it forces us into unnatural desires and conflicts laying life’s course

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
out as a matter of competition and war.124 Peace comes only though
harmony with nature and the Dao that is its nature.125
The interesting insight that follows from this paradox is that only
without fixed norms and preconceived patterns of existence do we
become able to withhold from a life of conflict and war. By
becoming mutually coinherent, we lose the ability to “other” the
stranger, the other culture or religion. In not acting forcefully, we
harmonize with Harmony itself. War and strive are, in this
understanding, not an implication of nature, but of society,
tradition,
blind
obedience,
socially
awakened
desires,
fads,
compromises of self-interest, competition, mutual exclusion, and the
clash of force and counter-force. It is not law and order that
guaranty peace, but, on the contrary, the anarchy of moving
harmony. It is not determination of rightness, but the relativity of
living together in concrete circumstances in which the Dao becomes
the event of peace. Peace arises “self-so” (ziran) not by acting, but be
letting be (wu wei) of any presupposed concept and the division that
it would induce.126 This is the meta-theme of the Laozi; this is the way
of the Dao: “The Dao/Way that can be dao-ed/walked is not the
constant Dao/Way. The name/language that can be named/
spoken/expressed is not the constant name/language.”127
If we were to penetrate deeper into the spirit of the Chinese
relationship
between
the
three
great
traditions,
Daoism,
Confucianism, and Buddhism, it would be at this point that we could
find a hint enlightening the very fact that there were never religious
wars between them. While quarrels always arose were respective
representatives of these traditions were self-involved with political
interests and powers over the centuries of their coexistence and
interaction, these conflicts never amounted to the religious wars
raging between the Abrahamic religions and the various factions
within them, leaving trails and rivers of blood in the western
chronicles of history to this very day.128 It is the interconnectedness
of this relativity of the Dao in all things that resonated with the
Mahayana notion of co-origination or dependent co-arising (pratitya-
samutpada); and it is the relativism of withholding the attachment to
fixed norms that mirrors Buddhist detachment in the same way that
the Daoist insight of the constructedness and impermanence of any
social structure as well as any desire created by social interaction

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
resonates deeply with the attitude of overcoming impermanence by
such detachment.129 Since this attitude is one of peace, it can only be
found in the heightening and refinement of the perception of the
harmonies in the flowing multiplicity of happenings that constitute
any situation and world, much like the coincidence of detachment
and compassion in Buddhism.130
Another Daoist insight strengthens this impression. The eternal or
constant Dao, since it follows no rule besides interconnectedness and
harmonization of opposites, is itself bare of interest or self-
existence.131 The Dao is empty (wu), like the ultimate reality in
Buddhism, nirvana, the state beyond being and non-being, or
dharmakaya, the Dharma-body of the Buddha, the transcendent
Wisdom of emptiness of all phenomena (sunyata).132 The Dao is not a
being, but nothingness (wuji), and as such it is the mother of all
things (taiji).133 “The Dao is both Named and Nameless / As Nameless,
it is the origin of all things / As Named, it is the mother of all
things.”134 In fact, all happenings (daos) are empty (wu), that is, again
correlative to Buddhism, impermanent, changing, related to all other
daos, and spontaneous (creative).135 There are infinitely many daos
and the world is their infinite movement without beginning and end.
The relativistic ethic of Daoism, then, imprints on its adherents
values of tolerance, cooperation, mutual understanding and peace. It
instills on us136 the importance of non-violence: that it is better to be
like water that collects itself at the lowest point and, in its patient
letting be, is stronger in weakness than the force of a rock, which is
formed by water.137 Furthermore, we are asked to always differentiate
into more than two daos, that is, always to escape the dualism of
opposition and strife.138 Finally, we are lured into becoming creative,
that is, self-responsible, not to (blindly) follow traditional norms, but
to always create new ways that escape oppositional thinking and
acting.139 In this sense, we are reminded of many Bahá’í principles of
non-oppositional unity and difference, mutuality and creative
responsibility140 and may marvel in the fact that these insights
appeared not late in any assumed spiritual maturation of humanity,
but were already always there to be perceived and to be activated.141

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
9. Resonances with the Bahá’í Faith
Of the many resonances with the Bahá’í Faith, I will only name a
few, the ones that immediately demonstrate the congruence of their
intentions even while coming from vastly different cultures and
times.142 First, the Dao, ultimate Reality, is a mystery, utterly
unapproachable, beyond any category and expression of itself while
all else is its expression — like the unknowable essence of the “(God)
Beyond” (the utter divine transcendence as understood in the Bahá’í
context) and the infinity of divine attributes that constitute the
essence of all things (divine immanence) — all together faint
expressions of the apophatic unmanifest Ultimate and the
plurisingularity of the manifest God (Primal Manifestation, Mind,
Will, Spirit, Word, Light).143 Both the Dao’s apophatic and manifest
“oneness” is like unto that of the Bahá’í understanding, while on the
vastly different background of Islamic thought, namely, not a
number, a one, and not any “form” of identity such as an self-
identical being or of any “character” of sameness.144 In this sense, the
Reality (al-haqq) of the Dao is “empty” (wu) of secondary
differentiations, abstractions and projections.145 Like the central
Islamic term for the unity of God, tawhid, the Dao is inexpressible,
beyond (any limiting notion of) oneness and multiplicity alike,146 but
— other than purely iconoclastic readings of this unity — out of its
generosity their “friend.”147 The Dao is like unto the Godhead beyond
any attributes (or indifferent from them in their infinity)148 and,
hence, beyond any “kinds” of opposites, divisions, and divides.149 Yet,
it also seeks to overcome such opposites — which is the secret of the
first message of Bahá’u’lláh at the first Ridvan: that there is only
unity if it realizes itself (or we let it realize itself) beyond strive and
war.150 And the Dao is spontaneous, without reason creating and
letting everything create their reality from the infinity of “divine”
immanence in everything.151 The Dao/ Reality is always manifesting
as and in renewal. “For if God speaks a word today that comes to be
on the lips of all the people, before and after, that word will be new,
if you only think about it.”152
Second, the Daoism of Laozi engenders in us153 the ancient
knowledge of the relativity of religious truth that the Bahá’í Faith
made its central conviction.154 “Our” dao is relative to the exigencies
of the time;155 it expresses itself differently in different minds;156 and

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
it reflects the unique mixture of attributes one realizes from its
infinity in one’s “character” (of persons, times, cultures, religions)157
— much like the contextual relativity of revelations and their finite
reception by any peoples as related by Bahá’u’lláh.158 “The
conceptions of the devoutest of mystics, the attainments of the most
accomplished amongst men, the highest praise which human tongue
or pen can render are all the product of man — finite mind — and are
conditioned by its limitations” [GWB #26].
Third, in relation to the so-called principles of the Bahá’í Faith,159
we find the Laozi to inculcate similar or resonant spiritual and
ethical, social and political impulses.160 To follow the universally
harmonizing Dao, one must become empty of Self (wu) and in letting
go become a universal person receptive to the flow of things,
perceptive of the whole world at any moment.161 One must learn to
relate harmoniously one to the other and everything, and try to
engage any situation from a non-oppositional and creative
perspective that avoids, overcomes, or mitigates oppositions. In this
context, opinions only become relevant if they are mutually
justifying their differences, that is, if they employ the movement of
unity (of differences) into a peaceful future.162 Further, one should
not imitate any social norm just because of its constancy within
certain traditions or because it is held up by any social, cultural,
political, or religious authority. Rather, one should begin to think,
see, perceive and act from one’s own insight into one’s
interconnectedness with everything and everyone in every situation.
One should also avoid prejudices, as they are nothing but stabilized
oppositions locking us into our thoughts, language and habits that
again force destruction, superiority and supersession to arise.163 The
most basic impulse of the Laozi is the “ecological” unification of the
whole world, not just of humanity,164 into one movement of a
multiplicity, that is, the manifold of interrelated daos/ways in which
religions, cultures, and humanity in their diversity are related as one
movement of peace.165 One is immediately reminded of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s allegory of the diverse beauty of a garden as an ecological
image of unity and interconnection. Here mutual relatedness and
peaceful differentiation, complexity and beauty become measures of
unity and peace.166 To follow the Dao means to live without any fixed
way, always anew, always engaged in an evolving mindscape of peace
that is already the ultimate reality of the movement toward itself.167

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Fourth, from the aforementioned points it may have become clear
that unity is valued higher that the particular claim of truth of/for
oneself over (and against) others or the particular importance of ones
actions and thought over (and against) others. As perceiving truth is
related to different situations, limitations, and the manifold of
realizations of the attributes of reality, so is practicing truth also
always already a matter of situatedness and receptiveness.168 To seek
unity through communication or consultation is the “natural” way to
go, that is, a way that overcomes the poisonous creations of desires
in societies, as is the fact that such processes of harmonization will
emphasize
the
minorities
among
themselves
since
such
harmonizations can never be suppressive of differences, but must
highlight them in a manifold of togetherness by which unity is
enriched.169
Therefore,
difference
is
essential
to
any
deep
understanding of unity170 and has priority over “being right” — much
like Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá teach.171
Nevertheless, Daoism provides its challenges for a Bahá’í
understanding of religious unity and equality. The question is, for
instance, how (or even whether) we can find a space “within” the
coordinate system of a universe of discourse that has (not necessarily
originated, but) mostly developed in the western or at least
Abrahamic context, or better: how to expand and transform this
coordinate system so as to allow for unity on the basis of a more
universal equality?172 In fact, Daoism challenges us to constantly
remain aware of the limitations of such traditional molds of
understanding the depth of its intention and message.173 We note that
the vast Daoist universe of discourse in its internal diversity and
complexity, and its multiplicity of sources and dimensions, is not
bound by categories of revelation or prophetic establishment, any
necessarily personal notion of God or an ultimate Reality conceived
as God at all.174
Although Daoist explications of existence can occasionally
approximate some of the Abrahamic categories with the implied
worldview of a history of divine interaction with the world and
humanity and a soteriology that wants to liberate humanity from its
predicament (Heilsgeschichte),175 note also that it is not primarily
interested in such a framework, but rather rests on wisdom of self-
cultivation, critical of habitual sedimentations, and living with

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
“nature” (ziran, self-so) more than with any Godhead.176 And we note
also that there is the radical social criticism and (epistemological and
ontological) relativism regarding constructions of power and an
equally anarchic perspective on the movement of the world from
spontaneity, rather than any fixed order; there is no eternal law to
follow, except the apophatic movement of harmonization.177 The
Daoist watchword is creativity (or spontaneity) in which everything
else is enfolded.178 Hence, we, from a receptive Bahá’í context of
listening, will only make progress in appreciating even this seeming
“strangeness” (of non-theism, non-controlling and –controlled order
of creativity, of spontaneous happenings, of radical immanence of
ultimate reality in the cosmic movements) as expression of
philosophical communication and religious oneness179 when we learn
to understand all of these terms in a different way, namely, on their
own background: that of the eternal becoming of harmonies.180 In
this context, historical progress is nothing compared with the insights
of the cyclical workings of the universe.181 And this approach shows
itself even in the fact that ancient sages could develop notions of a
universal civilization of peace that defies any simple understanding
of progression.182
The implications for a fruitful (interreligious) conversation will be
far-reaching, beyond any specific engagement with a specific wisdom
tradition, but we may learn a great deal from the unique feature of
the Daoist universe of discourse and spirituality. If we, for instance,
recognize and acknowledge that the Dao De Jing indicates a major
milestone in (and for) the development of a world civilization,183 the
fact that it has (yet) to become a consciously perceived, even if
unconsciously already permeating, part of the universal unity of
religions projected in the Bahá’í universe of discourse will lead to the
question, how this (compared with other religious traditions) relative
absence of sustained reflections and dialogues, acknowledging,
engaging, and even integrating its contributions, maybe transformed
into the structuring of a future, developed Bahá’í self-consciousness
of having fulfilled and sublimated (or even subsumed) all such earlier
endeavors as their culmination?184 Hopefully, future realizations of
unity and difference in the spirit of receptivity and mutuality,
especially from the Bahá’í perspective, will show.185 The profound
challenge that the contrasted differences and resonances, especially in
the reception of the Dao De Jing, provide if they are engaged in a

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
spirit of unity may be that we will want to accept, or even love,186 the
insight that the unity of religions can never be understood, or merely
achieved, as a fixed state, but must always (anew) be performed in
processes of profound mutual contrasting.187 We shall (and will want
to)
seek
mutuality
with
the
“other”
and
one
another,
contemporaneously and diachronically, allowing for surprising
supplementations of the known by the unknown; and we must (and
will always want to) be ready to be enriched by future and past
contributions,188 from wherever they arise.189 Mutual respect and
learning are not just practical virtues, then, but divine characteristics
of a “unity in multiplicity”190 that the Bahá’í reading of its own
tradition and of the signs of the world, its predicaments, pressing
issues, and diagnoses of illness needs to unfold as it unfolds itself.
Maybe the contributions of the Dao De Jing (among other classics of
Chinese philosophical, and wisdom, and religious traditions), as it
speaks surprisingly with a fresh and current voice today, may not
only contribute to the colors of the garden of truth and a future
civilization of peace, but also, with its holistic, yet processual view
of all spheres of human life, from individual and social virtues to
ecological and cosmic integrity, uniquely color their realization.
10. Is Laozi a “Lost Prophet”?
After these short approximations to and glimpses in to the nature
and relevance of Daoism, Laozi and the Dao De Jing in their
contributions for the foundation of Chinese civilization,191 if not
human civilization, their importance for the Bahá’í universe of
discourse, and from a current global consciousness of interreligious
conversations for a future civilization of peace, I can now address a
question that has lingered beneath these considerations all along.
Given everything mentioned above, of resonance between one of the
oldest living religions and wisdoms on this earth and the Bahá’í Faith,
one of the youngest religions: what should we think of Laozi and the
Laozi in a Bahá’í universe? How can this sage and this book be related
to the scheme of cyclical revelation throughout the history and
becoming of humanity as embraced and expounded by the Bahá’í
universe?192 Could we think of Laozi in terms of, or at least similar
to, a Manifestation, such as (or much like) the Buddha and Jesus? And
if not, how do we understand the fascinating congruencies between

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
these profound religious traditions, bridging several thousands of
years, if one of them were not to be considered to be authorized by
“divine inspiration” or “revelation,” but derives from “nature” the
common essential ingredients of a divine, human, religious and
universal unity and a peace for which the Bahá’í Faith stands?193 The
Bahá’í writings give us very few hints as to the station of Laozi and
his namesake book. Of course, as already mentioned, the general rule
of Bahá’u’lláh that all religions reflect one apophatic divine source,
would imply that Daoism is (and has itself proven to be) a true
religion so that we would be justified to spiritually understand and
revere its scriptures,194 especially the Laozi, and consider them in
some meaningful sense as a “revelation” of the mystery beyond
names.195 But even if so, we are in a more precarious situation as the
Bahá’í writings seem, at the same time, to deny Laozi the status of a
Manifestation or Prophet, minor or major. “Regarding Lao-Tse,”
Shoghi Effendi writes, “The Bahá’ís do not consider him a prophet, or
even a secondary prophet or messenger, unlike Buddha or Zoroaster,
both of whom were divinely-appointed and fully independent
Manifestations of God.”196 Conversely, it is interesting to note that
both the Muslim Ahmediyyah community and the Vietnamese Cao
Dai religion (originating in the same general timeframe) accept Laozi
as divine Manifestation, much like the Buddha.197
However, despite Shoghi Effendi’s statement that Bahá’ís don’t
know of Laozi as a Manifestation, we cannot (on its own and by its
singular status) be sure what this statement actually includes or
excludes. Considering the stunning synergies between Daoism and the
Bahá’í Faith — not forgetting that Daoism is a valuable and important
dialogue partner in the interreligious dialogues worldwide today, but
also that such a dialogue is what Bahá’u’lláh has asked us to pursue198
— we seem at least to owe ourselves, and for the purpose of the
imperative to pursue universal religious dialogue, the effort to
understand as much as possible the coordinates that would allow us
to explore the relationship the Bahá’í writings can invite us to
establish with Laozi and his book, the Dao De Jing. I understand this
situation as an appeal to create a tentative and open framework in
which it becomes possible and fitting actually to pursue such
relationships, practically, in spiritual community, but also in
reflection on the potentials of mutual consciousness and insight
inherent in such a universal religious community.199 Such an approach

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
could maybe begin with ‘Abdu'l-Bahá’s wise instruction to engage
with the Chinese religious, spiritual and philosophical mind and heart,
and its sages and scriptures: “imbued with their spirit; know their
sacred literature; …and speak to them from their own standpoint, and
their own terminologies.”200 So, here are, from my understanding of
the potentials such an approach could have for the Bahá’í universe of
discourse, eight theses for an open framework of mutual
interreligious communication, pondering on why maybe, or maybe
why not, and in what sense the sage Laozi (and his book) might be
considered a mirror of the Sun of Truth. Yet, as such a space of
potential differentiations is not meant to define a specific outcome,
a definitive answer, it rather wants to envision and tentatively walk
through a field of perceptivity in which the concept of
Manifestations (and its relation to religious communities and their
truth claims) can shine in its fascinating complexity for further
interreligious investigations in general.
Thesis 1:  Laozi was a holy soul, influenced by the
Buddha
According to this thesis, which is occasionally ventilated in Bahá’í
reflections on the matter, Laozi is not a Manifestation or Prophet in
the Bahá’í sense, but a holy and pure soul who, like Confucius,201 was
under the influence of another (acceptable) Manifestation, namely
the historical Shakyamuni Buddha. This view is partly based on the
understanding of the reflectivity of the Logos/Will/Mind of God,
the primordial Manifestation of Divinity, in creation and through the
pure and stainless souls of the Prophets, the Manifestations proper,202
who again reflect their reality in holy souls that would always rise in
the wake of the revelation of a new Manifestation, either
contemporarily or in the span of their dispensational force field.203
Like the apostles of Christ, Laozi would be a reflection of the Sun of
Truth that appeared “in” the (wake of the) Manifestation of the
Buddha, who again is the primordial reflection of the Self of God
(which again is the primordial Manifestation of the apophatic
ultimate “Reality Beyond”).204
While such a solution allows us to recognize connections between
the accepted (known) Manifestations in the Bahá’í context and many
holy figures or sages during the centuries, appearing in relation or in

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
parallel to these prophetic figures,205 much like the prophetic figures
of the Mosaic dispensation (after and under the umbrella of Moses),
it is also fraught with several serious problems. First of all, Daoism is
older than Buddhism. It cannot without grave limitations be
understood to have arisen in the wake of Buddhism.206 At least
traditionally, Laozi lived before the Buddha — a problem that this
solution shares with the question whether or not Confucius was a
Manifestation, who also lived before the Buddha and who
traditionally was thought to have visited Laozi and accepted him as
his teacher.207 Even if the traditional chronology may not hold up to
historical scrutiny, as we may assume that the legendary sage Erh
(Laozi) might have lived in the 5th century B.C.E. while the Laozi was
created or compiled between the 4th and the 2nd century B.C.E., the
main counter argument still remains, namely, that Daoism is older
than Buddhism. However, even if this was not the case, we must not
forget that Buddhism entered China only at the time of the Han
dynasty between the late 3rd and the 1st century B.C.E., long after
both the alleged lifetime of Laozi and the creation of the Dao De
Jing.208 We must also take into consideration that it was the Daoist
substrate that facilitated the survival of Buddhism in China while it
was disappearing in India over the next centuries either by being
reappropriated into Hinduism or by being eradicated by Islamic
occupation.209 Moreover, it was mediated through Daoism and
especially through Laozi and the Laozi that Buddhism developed into
new and important branches, which became influential and are still
with us today, not only in East Asia, but also in America and Europe
(for instance, Chan, Hua Yen, Tian Tai, and other forms of Mahayana
Buddhism); and so was Zen enfolding a synthesis with Daoist streams,
perpetuating its inherent influence worldwide to this day.210 Hence,
the assumption of a movement of influence opposite to the proposed
thesis is not only more probable regarding origins and historical
development, but also on the symbolic level as Laozi in later Daoism
was understood to have been the teacher of the Buddha, and the
Buddha was even proclaimed the return of Laozi.211

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Thesis 2: Laozi was a sage, transmitting an older
Chinese “revelation”
There are, in fact, in Chinese cultural memory indications of
mythical figures who have been considered the founders of Chinese
culture or even humanity such as the divine Yellow Emperor and the
figure of Fu Xi, a legendary emperor and mythological author of the
ancient Yi Jing who is considered somewhat similar to the
mythological Adam of biblical heritage (which to mythological
consciousness also appeared to be historical).212 The reason to think
in this way in a Bahá’í perspective would be that, if we rule out thesis
1, namely, that the Buddha is the “origin” and overarching force field
for the emergence of Laozi, we might think of Laozi as the mirror or
companion of an older Chinese Manifestation of which we have lost
record.213 The Bahá’í writings expect that every culture would have
had their Manifestations even before the ones known today. In fact,
Shoghi Effendi partly justifies his reluctance to widen speculation to
other than the recorded figures named in the scriptural Bahá’í
writings on this basis: that we have lost knowledge of older
dispensations distributed throughout humanity and human pre-
history.214 They could, as Bahá’u’lláh says, have been the instigators
of humanity’s cultural development in these older times, but were
living, for instance, before writing could have preserved their
memory.215 Hence, it would make sense to postulate such a prophetic
figure, which then would be the force field of revelation “in” which
Laozi represents another mirror of rejuvenation or exploration.
What may count against this thesis, however, is the overwhelming
evidence that it was not such an ancient figure of the unremembered
past, but Laozi himself who was seen as the initiator of
(philosophical) Daoism (Dao Jia), and who, in the further
development of Daoism as a religion (Dao Jiao) in the first
millennium C.E., began prominently to feature as divinity, even as
one aspect of the highest Manifestations of ultimate reality in the
Daoist understanding.216 This development should give us pause: It is
in the figure of Laozi and his book that it is at least questionable that
China had not developed any idea of Manifestations of divine
“revelation” and produced scriptures of such revelations, because it
was precisely with Laozi and the Laozi that, over the coming
centuries, the idea of apophatic divinity, divine Manifestations of

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
ultimate reality and scriptural revelation, have developed.217 In fact,
Laozi became the “face,” that is, literally the Manifestation of the
highest mystery of ultimate reality expressed in the conception of the
“Three Pure Ones.” Of them, he is the “face” of mystery, himself
often represented as holding “the book” (the Laozi) — uncannily
mirroring the Bahá’í understanding of the High Prophets or
Manifestations as being the “face” of the unknowable Godhead and
the ones bringing “the book,” that is, not only a new scripture, but
the “Law” of the dispensation that decides its pattern of living.218
Not only can the origin of the “Three Pure Ones” be traced back to
the Dao De Jing, as it understands the origin of all things to proceed
from the apophatic One that becomes Two (Yin, Yang) and then
Three (The Three Pure Ones) from which, consequently, all things
flow.219 Moreover, within this logic of the Three-One, together with
the apophatic One (Yuanshi Tianzun) and the Divine Treasure
(Lingbao Tienzun), Laozi appears as “its” third aspect, the
quintessence of the Way and Virtue (Daode Tienzun). The “face” of
ultimate reality is none other than the divine Spirit of Laozi who,
then, is nothing else but the human Manifestation of the Way (the
universal Dao, ultimate reality) and all of “its” divine attributes or
virtues.220
At this juncture, we may ask: What more and what other
(additional) characteristics can we expect a Manifestation to exhibit
to be called a Manifestation in a Bahá’í sense than being the very
expression of ultimate Reality “in person” and bringing (revealing)
“the book,” and being considered to have a human and a divine
station
and
nature
(rather
similar
to
the
development
in
Christianity,221 maybe even under influence of its Chinese expansion)?
But then, contrarily, we can also ask whether there is any evidence
that Laozi, or Confucius, for that matter, considered himself, or
claimed to be, a Manifestation?222 As a final similarity we may also
remember that this divine figure of Laozi, Lord Lao, was considered
to undergo a rhythm of human appearances in a progression of
revelations and Manifestations. Like the Reality of Bahá’u’lláh,
Krishna and the Buddha, Laozi’s Reality (in Daoist scriptures) is
understood to have come time and again into the world of humanity,
even as the figure of the Buddha (but not confined to it) whom
Bahá’ís consider as a genuine Manifestation.223 But then, again, as this
cyclical scheme of the divine reality of Lord Lao, appearing in a

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
figure of another religions, was created under the pressure resisting
Buddhist expansionism, it might not create a reliable argument for
the cyclicity and return of Manifestations in a Bahá’í understanding
either.224 What is more, despite the high station of Lord Lao, later
developments in religious Daoism have not confirmed, or rather,
shaded, the seeming importance of the divine figure.225
Thesis 3: Laozi was a “possible, but unknowable”
Manifestation
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that Laozi is “not considered” a
Manifestation in the Bahá’í context leaves space for an interpretation
that takes into account the seeming conviction of the Guardian to
not expand his interpretations of Bahá’í revelation beyond the
boundaries of that which the texts actually say or give evidence for in
his considerations when answering questions (thesis 2). It is quite
often the case that we find in the corpus of Shoghi Effendi’s letters
(or letters written on his behalf) that he cautions the questioner about
that which on any specific issue can actually be known if one takes
the Bahá’í scriptural texts as a basis: sometimes nothing can be
known, because nothing can be found or inferred regarding a specific
question or matter; sometimes the evidence is scarce and caution is
necessary not to overstep the boundaries of interpretation into
fantasy.226
If we can understand Shoghi Effendi’s statement regarding Laozi
in this way, it would not mean a denial in principle, but it would
rather indicate a factual impossibility to know whether Laozi was or
was not a Manifestation since the Bahá’í scriptural sources do not
indicate anything in either direction. On this view, all we can say is
that the Bahá’í writings do not (as far as we know) mention Laozi
either way. But given all the other criteria for discerning a
Manifestation, as they eerily apply to Laozi and the Laozi (thesis 2),
even if neither is mentioned in the canonical accounts, but since there
is virtually no limitation to divine theophanies in the Bahá’í
writings,227 Laozi may possibly be a Manifestation or be a “possible”
Manifestation. Yet this estimation must remain an open question in
the current context, not only because of the silence of Bahá’í
scriptures, but rather since we cannot exclude that later

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
Manifestations could clarify this matter and possibly refer to Laozi
as such a Manifestation (thesis 6).
There is not much to say against such a thesis, except that we
could ask the question what sense it would make to ponder the
existence of a “possible” Manifestation of whom we cannot know
factually whether s/he is one or not. I will come back to this question
in thesis 5.
Thesis 4: Laozi was no Manifestation, because Laozi
did not exist
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that Laozi should not be considered a
Manifestation could also be understood as one in principle, that is, if
it indicates a definitive knowledge that he was not a Manifestation.
This would make sense if Laozi did never exist. In fact, more recent
research has raised doubts regarding the historical existence of a
singular figure named Laozi and, hence, of him being the author of
the Dao De Jing. It is rather assumed that he was a “composite
figure,” crystallizing a whole group of learned scholars of classical
Chinese wisdom.228 We know that the Zhou dynasty under which
Laozi is assumed to have lived was cultured enough to entertain an
imperial library and to employ scholars and scribes, collectors of
literature, philosophy, art and law, and who were advisors and
guardians of traditional wisdom.229 Like many other anonymous texts,
for instance of the Jewish wisdom literature (even the scriptural texts
accepted in either the Hebrew Bible or diverse canonical versions of
the Christian Old Testament), which are expected to be either
collective endeavors of a group or received redactions over time,230
we can reasonably assume a group of scribes, scholars and sages to
have collected the ancient Chinese wisdom sayings in a book(or what,
over time, became a condensed book) and by attaching it to one of
the mythological or faintly historical figures, or still revered
notables, remembered in Chinese history and named Laozi (as there
are, in fact, more than one such figures related to our composite
person Laozi).231 And we know of at least one such school to have
been entertained for some time during the fourth century B.C.E. that
was capable to either collect the Dao De Jing (or one of its early
versions) or hold high its memory without knowing its origins, but
accepting some traditional ascription to a mythical sage named Laozi

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
who in the old sources was assumed to have been the one that
Confucius had encountered in the search for some answers regarding
the correct performance of ancestral rituals. In this case, we must
still accept the acute relevance of the Laozi as a scriptural text of
religious Daoism (in which the text unfolded) that Bahá’í should
admire or revere, but without any knowable figure as its author. This
would not be without precedence in the Bahá’í universe as it also
accepts a Sabean/Sabian “revelation” of which we cannot even say
exactly what group it represents (as different groups are indicated in
different scriptural contexts), but of which we can definitely say that
we have no idea of any founder, mythological or historical.232
Thesis 5: Laozi was an “incognito” Manifestation
Although it is a somewhat strange assumption, at first, that a
Manifestation, which should be considered an educator of humanity,
could be unknown to his or her contemporaries, there are indications
in the Bábi-Bahá’í literatures that such a possibility is not a priori
excluded or under all conditions meaningless. A Manifestation might
decide not to be known by anyone. This assumption can be traced
back to an intriguing Shi‘i theological speculation that there are not
only known, but more often even unknown perfectly holy
representatives of the Twelfth Imam or the Qa’im in the world233 —
almost like the “hidden” (prachanna) Buddhas in Theravada
Buddhism.234 In any case, the Báb did assume that it is a
Manifestation’s decision if, when, and how to reveal him- or herself
to the world, depending on the situation.235 What would happen if
such a Manifestation decided not to reveal him- or herself? Would it
not imply that this human figure was nevertheless a “hidden”
Manifestation236 — because Bahá’í scriptures would not accept any
mere assumption scheme such as could also be witnessed in a group
of Christian (Ebonite) views that holds that Jesus “became” the Son
of God by adoption and exultation?237 And wasn’t any Manifestation
before his or her declaration a hidden Manifestation?238
But what could be the meaning of such hiddenness, as it seems to
contradict the very reason why a messenger of divine enlightenment,
revelation, and education of humanity is sent to appear?239 One
reason may be found deeply embedded in the Báb’s and Bahá’u’lláh’s
understanding of the nature of a Manifestation. In the words of the

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
sixth Imam, both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh repeat in their writings that
the essence of divinity consists in (the substance that is) servitude.240
Bahá’u’lláh also describes the divine “station” of the Manifestation in
terms of such servitude, not only “in the court” (the presence) of God
in which the Manifestation shows no self (ego) except the Self of
God, but even more so in the world in which s/he appears.241 In other
words, a Manifestation is a Manifestation regardless of whether s/he
appears in the face of witnesses and can be experienced as a divine
figure, a messenger or a prophet, or just as a mere human being, in
his or her servitude as “merely” human being expressing his or her
divinity as perfectly as would appear in any other (super-natural)
impressions s/he might leave in the perception and understanding of
humanity.242 Laozi might have been such a Manifestation, then, one
of absolute servitude, being anonymous, even incognito.243 However,
what counts against such a thesis in the case of Laozi is the fact that
his anonymity could not have been absolute since Laozi, in fact, was
known not only as a holy figure and sage, but even as a divinity,
similar to the Christian development following the experience of
Jesus’s exultation, explicating itself in the apotheosis of Christ (thesis
2).244
Thesis 6: Laozi was a “Manifestation” of Wisdom
The content of that which Bahá’ís may or may not consider a
Manifestation is not as clear-cut as one might think at first glance.
The first impression is that Manifestations are identical with the
founders of religions, but limited to certain known figures of
specific religions, such as the “nine” religions, which Bahá’í writers
sometimes assume as “canonical” for the Bahá’í universe,245 namely,
that of Sabianism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism,
Christianity, Islam, Bábism and the Bahá’í Faith.246 While it is true
that Shoghi Effendi mentions those “nine” religions as the “only ones
still existing,” he also avoids three possible reductionisms: first, that
the number “nine” has a literal significance; second, that these are the
only
(true)
religions
associated
with
Manifestations,
these
Manifestations being the only ones; and, third, that this list is
exhaustive of “true” religions.247 In particular, first, the “nine”
represents the symbolic number of fullness for the Bahá’í Faith, the
Abjad number of the name of Bahá’u’lláh (BHA’), reflecting the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
essence of all Manifestations as mirrors of the one Splendor or Glory
of God (thesis 7).248 Second, the often  (in some combination)
together and in association with some of the “nine” religions
mentioned Manifestations, such as Krishna, Abraham, Moses,
Zoroaster, the Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad, the Báb, and Bahá’u’lláh249
do in no way exhaust the Manifestations mentioned and assumed in
the Bahá’í writings.250 Rather, as Shoghi Effendi immediately adds,
there have always been Prophets and Messengers.251 In fact, the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu'l-Bahá consistently assume an indefinite
number of Manifestations.252 Third, as Shoghi Effendi emphasizes,
the mentioned religions do not represent the only true religions,253
but — maybe similar to the methodological restraints mentioned
thesis 3 — could be understood as the ones existing as mentioned in
the Bahá’í writings.254 This also derives from the fact that Bahá’u’lláh
understands all religions to be divine in origin and nature.255
Yet, if one was tempted to assume any of these reductionisms — if
the “nine” religions were to be taken literally — the “list” itself would
demonstrates several grave flaws. To name just a few anomalies
visible even from this reductionist outset: it would fail by suggesting
that these different religious historical organisms were one (linear)
chain of progressive revelations. These “nine” don’t form a simple
timeline of progression, but imply parallel developments and
crossings. Further, some of these religions are not named after a
founder, actually have a founder, or attach to a figure that is the
founder of the respective religion; they are religions in very different
senses of the word.256 Finally, such a literalism would also miss the
symbolic and spiritual character of the named religions as “the only
ones existing” and begin to resemble an exclusivist determination of
“true” religions. Shoghi Effendi avoids this danger, first, by
clarifying that the “nine” should not be used to create the impression
“of being all tied up with peculiar religious theories” and, second, by
advising Bahá’ís “not … to be rigid in these matters,”257 but rather to
take into account the historical and scholarly discussion on the
number and identity of (what should be called) “existing” religions.
These are all also important insights in the conversation with Daoism.
Another complication arises if we take a closer look at other
figures related to Manifestations, such as the Hebrew prophets, or
holy figures in other religions, such as the apostles in Christianity or

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
the Imams in Shi‘i Islam, as reflected in the Bábi-Bahá’í writings.258 As
not all accepted (known) Manifestations are founders of religions,259
so do not all holy figures appear automatically in a lesser rank than
that of Manifestations. It is well known that the Báb began his
revelatory writings connected to his declaration as the Gate of the
Qa’im, eternalized in his mighty book, the Qayyum al-Asma, by
identifying himself symbolically with the figure of the Hebrew
patriarch Joseph who according to the Qur’an was considered a High
Prophet and one of the most important figures of the Jewish
dispensation in Islamic understanding.260 It is also well know that
Bahá’u’lláh has, on occasion, identified the Báb with John the
Baptizer who as Yahya was also a Qur’anic High Prophet with a
book, that is, given Bahá’í criteria, a Manifestation.261 Bahá’u’lláh
also identifies the Joseph of the Báb with himself and with the third
Shi‘i Imam Husayn ibn ‘Ali, both offering their lives in the wake of
divine demonstration of unconditional love (at least in Bahá’u’lláh
understanding).262 On occasion, both Joseph and Imam Husayn
appear in the same lineup with accepted Manifestations as if they
were participating in this elevated station, but maybe only were
anonymously manifest as such (Thesis 5).263 In other words, the Bábi-
Bahá’í writings know of a host of other (maybe in some sense
anonymous) “Manifestations” of the divine besides Manifestations in
a technical sense, often named the “holy ones,” appearing in the series
of Imams or the holy family, or in series of Manifestations, or with
all their attributes in place of them, or even as identified with a
named (known) Manifestation,264 or occasionally name them as
Manifestations.265
In this context, it is also remarkable that the Báb in his Tafsir
Hadith al-Haqiqat (and other tablets) names Fatimah, the daughter of
the Prophet Muhammad and the wife of the first Shi‘i Imam ‘Ali ibn
Abu Talib, the generative principle of all prophets — a function that
seems to indicate a “station” that is in some sense even higher than
that of the prophets.266 If we take also into account, as Henry Corbin
has demonstrated, that the Shaykhi movement, which preceded the
Báb and from which he recruited almost all of his early followers and
“apostles,” the Letters of the Living, has considered Fatimah as the
representation of divine Wisdom, we are in a whole new world of
religious and philosophical as well as spiritual connotations.267
Wisdom, hokmah in biblical understanding, indicates not just one

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
divine attribute among infinitely many others, but is singled out as
one of the divine modes of immanence of the transcendent God in
the world of creation. In the Hebrew Bible she appears in an elevated
position in her function to indicate the presence of God’s Self in the
world in the company of similarly elevated terms such as the Name
(haShem), the Word (dabar), the Spirit (ruah), the Angel (malek), and
Glory (kabod)268 — many of them, individually and collectively, also
being used to indicate divine Manifestations in the Bahá’í writings.269
In the biblical context, Wisdom represents, among other things, the
aspect of the presence of the unfathomable God as the plan of
creation, the wise order and reasonability of creation in the mind of
God; God’s luring power, instead of coercive force, in the education
of humanity in divine virtues; and the glory of God as she contracts
herself in the tent of the covenant and wanders with the people as
shekinah.270 It is this Wisdom that the Gospel of John refers to in its
famous prologue as the Word (logos) that was in the beginning of all
creation, is in all creation, and is God.271 It is the same Wisdom
(hikmat) in which Bahá’u’lláh understands the world to be created;
that in many of his tablets appears to indicate the nature of the
Manifestations; and that allows us to understand creation as divine
order and to penetrate its secrets with our mind (as its mirror).272
Nor does divine Wisdom figure only as the inspiration of
prophets, but also of the sages and lovers of wisdom, that is,
philosophers.273 It is not without merit to point to the fact that in
light of Wisdom both of these categories — that of the prophet and
of the sage — appear at times fused in past scriptures and the Bahá’í
writings. A strong witness to this fusion presents itself in the biblical
and intertestamentary Wisdom literature, which is itself not only
viewed as inspired scripture, but highlights Wisdom as divine Spirit
and plays the role of inspiration of prophets274 as well as that of the
divine dimension, as identified in the figure of Christ.275 Moreover,
as part of the Wisdom section of Hebrew Scriptures, the Book of
Daniel features one of the most influential Jewish prophets as a
sage.276 And Bahá’u’lláh identifies the symbolic figure of Hermes
Trismegistus as the primordial exponent of philosophy, who was
already traditionally thought to be the Jewish patriarch Enoch, the
one exalted to God while alive,277 while also being identified with the
Islamic prophet Idris.278 This will be further explored in thesis 7.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
So, while one could hold that eastern religions tend to not
entertain the concept of revelation and prophethood, but rather view
their holy figures as sages and their insights as wisdom, one could also
make a case that such sages live from the same Wisdom that generates
the prophets as divine representatives. In this sense, Laozi could be
understood as personification of this same Wisdom that flows
through all prophets and holy figures regardless of their station as
primal mirrors (thesis 3 and 5) or as mirrors of these mirrors (thesis 1
and 2).279 In this perspective, it would be secondary to what the exact
station of Laozi amounts if we accept that the Laozi is such a
scripture of wisdom, shining with divine Wisdom (thesis 4); and even
more so if we take into account the later Daoist interpretation of
both the person and the book as Manifestations of ultimate reality
(thesis 2). Yet, perhaps one may counter (and limit this thesis) by the
fact that, in the Chinese context, if one does not follow the
divinization of Lord Lao, Laozi is more naturally considered as a
wisdom teacher than an “incarnation” of Wisdom.
Thesis 7: Laozi is a “symbolic” Manifestation
This thesis is based on the observation, already hinted at, that not
all of the Manifestations, named  in the Bahá’í writings, are either
founders of religions (thesis 6) or, for that matter, even historical
figures (thesis 4). This is especially true for Krishna, who is accepted
as a genuine Manifestation in the Bahá’í context,280 but is neither a
founder of Hinduism nor a historical figure, but probably similar to
Laozi (thesis 4) a composite personality.281 There are as many
“Krishnas” in the Indian records of old as there are “Laozis” in the
Chinese records. Similarly, we find series of Manifestations in Bábi-
Bahá’í literatures that include figures such as the biblical Adam and
Noah besides the already mentioned ones, and they were already
included in the Qur’anic series of prophets leading up to
Muhammad.282 Similar to Fu Xi in the Chinese context (thesis 2), it is
not difficult to agree that both Adam and Noah are not historical
figures, but symbolic representations of the archetypical human
condition in relation to (ultimate) reality at earlier stages of human
development and consciousness.283 Nevertheless, if such figures are
included in valid lists of Manifestations, we must either conclude
that Manifestations do not necessarily have to be historical figures or

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
that they will always at least have to indicate a great existential
symbolism of divine revolution in the history of evolution and
civilization.284 In either case, history becomes not obsolete — such as
in docetic renderings of the Christ event (recognizing only the
archetype, but denying the scandal of particularity, embodiment and
historicity)285 — but remains the very intention of this symbolic
reality as it emanates from the spiritual realms into their
materializations, and repeatedly so.286 In fact, with the return of one
Manifestation “in” another one, the whole cyclical and progressive
understanding of the symbolic “identity” of all Manifestations as
expressions of the one Word, Wisdom, Glory, Mind, Will and Spirit
of God becomes only intelligible if we assume such a symbolic reality
as a profoundly spiritual Reality, as the very basis for any singular or
cyclical or progressive materialization in history.287
Considering the symbolic character of the Manifestation as basis
for any historization is not the same as making a mythological
statement or transforming the concept of the Manifestation into a
mythopoeic statement extracted from past religions. A mythological
statement was meant to be (or was factually often misunderstood as)
a literal rendering of an event of sacred history within the bounds of
the causal connections of this material universe — something we
would today consider literalism (thesis 6)288 — even if it looks from a
current perspective like a paradigmatic rendering of deep realities.
The symbolic character of Reality, however, is related to the fact that
the spiritual nature of its meaning cannot be exhausted by material,
causal, space-time relations without, in this collapse, in its very
meaning becoming irrelevant to them (that is, the literal facts created
in such a way have already lost the spiritual meaning). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
with the Sufi tradition, speaks of the higher spiritual realm of the
Kingdom (malakut) sometimes in terms of the realm of similitudes
(alam al-mithal), the realm of symbols, meanings, similarities, images,
and significances, which are aspects of a higher reality than the
fleeing causal realm of impermanence, but which are mutually
immanent with and must be materialized and historicized at the plane
of the physical, historical, temporal, spatial and bodily world.289 He
also relates many doctrines of past religions to have been
misunderstood as “mythological” truths, that is, as literal renderings
of spiritual realities by confounding them with happenings of this
causal realm of the physical universe. Instead, these stories of sacred

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
history were, so ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, always meant to convey symbolic
patterns of spiritual realities in the midst, but not of the stuff, of
physical realities.290 It is their symbolism, not their mythopoetic
confusion, which transports religious truths through symbols, myths,
tales, which, in their spiritual nature, have the power to connect us
with the divine revelation of Reality, or rather are the emanations of
this Reality into the world of creation.
A good example of this difference between mythic illusion and
symbolic meaning, or spiritual reality, in the Bahá’í writings is the
appearance of Hermes Trismegistus and “his” writings, the Corpus
Hermeticum, in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom (Lawh-i-Hikmat).
Hermes is, according to contemporary historical readings, (like Laozi)
considered a composite figure, not a historical person (thesis 4) —
although sometimes (mythopoetic, literalist) historicity was assumed,
as in the Renaissance. Like Krishna and Laozi, he “manifests” at
different times in history, collecting himself to, and collectively
emanating, characteristics of an archetypical figure of (philosophic)
wisdom and of divine revelation. He represents the Egyptian God
Thoth, the originator of scripture and language, and the Greek
Hermes, the messenger of the revelations of the Greece pantheon, but
also the Hebrew and Jewish figure of Enoch, who was supposed to
have been assumed into the divine realm while alive. Hermes/Thoth/
Enoch later also lent “their” name to this culminating Corpus, of
scriptural and para-scriptural texts of apocalyptic nature,291 carrying
“his” name, and advanced par excellence to the figure through whose
mystical ascent into the presence of God its secrets were
authorized.292 And, finally, in Islamic lore “he” became identified
with the mysterious Qur’anic prophet Idris who was also already
equated with the biblical Enoch (thesis 6).293 The Corpus Hermeticum
is, of course, not an ancient text of those pre-historical figures, but
was probably accumulated not earlier than the 1st century C.E.,
although the ascription to Hermes and Enoch lets it appear to have
been created at the beginning of human civilization. Its enormous
impact was not only due to its assumed old age and the authorship of
this presumably exceptional holy figure of divine origin or touch, but
can also be explained by the variability with which the presumed
authorship (and authority) could be identified with figures from
different cultures, embracing a divinity, a prophet, a philosopher,
and a revealer of divine truth in its sphere.294

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Comparing Laozi with Hermes, at this point, we can decide to
dissolve Laozi like Hermes/Enoch/Idris into irrelevant clouds of
mythological confusion or view them as actual philosophers, or
actual prophets of old, or, conversely, in the contemporary climate
of “demythologization,” as imaginations based on a fraud of a later
generation ascribing an old name with authority to a respective
corpus of writings that, nevertheless, stun us even today because of
their beauty and depth of insight. Over against all of these potential
solutions, we could also decide to follow Bahá’u’lláh’s view of
Hermes and understand Laozi, like Hermes/Enoch/Idris, as such a
symbolic “Manifestation” of an ideal prophet-philosopher, educator,
and revealer of Wisdom — conveying spiritual archetypical Reality
regardless of the folds that formed the cooperate identity of the
figure through which this reality shines as Sun of Truth (thesis 3 and
6).
Furthermore, the fused figure of a prophet-philosopher (thesis 6),
whether symbolic or historical (or at least as perceived in sacred
history), is not an unusual category of human societies to understand
their extraordinary figures to be relevant across diverse cultures.
Historical figures like Pythagoras were considered not only
philosophers (and scientists), but spiritual giants, gathering religious
communities among themselves, being quintessential human beings,
incarnations of Wisdom and knowledge, and even divine figures. So
could the Roman poet Ovid divinize Pythagoras as all-knowing sage
of universal, super-mundane wisdom.295 Insofar as other philosophers
are understood — traditionally in Islam and also by Bahá’u’lláh —
spiritually to have gained their wisdom from the prophets, such as
Pythagoras from disciples of Salomon, for instance,296 and vive versa,
and insofar as such philosophers can be understood as being inspired,
as Bahá’u’lláh suggests for Socrates,297 we can discern the same
pattern: Wisdom flows from divine Wisdom that/who in all prophets
constitutes their “person,” who, therefore, are her highest
incarnations, but of a Wisdom that/who also distributes herself
among (or is being mirrored in) other extraordinary figures of
holiness, mystical insight (irfan), philosophical reason and spiritual
wisdom. Laozi, considered as divine personification of Wisdom, is no
exception — whether he was a composite personality, a (symbolic or
historical) divine mirror, a holy sage or Wisdom’s “Manifestation.”

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
Thesis 8: Laozi’s station is (now) irrelevant
As with every Manifestation in the context of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation we can, on this view, assume that they all have been
integrated in their greatness into the greatness of Bahá’u’lláh who is
called a “universal Manifestation,” unprecedented in human history
on earth until now (and maybe never seen before even in unrecorded
human pre-history).298 Consequently, whatever the exact station of
anyone of any dispensation — even if such a station seem to lower
from one dispensation to another, as in the case of John the Baptizer,
or changes into divinity over time, as in the case of Krishna, the
Buddha, Jesus, and Laozi (thesis 6)299 — has become irrelevant in light
of the newest Manifestation; the past has been made new.300 It is in
line with this pattern of thought that the Báb, the more he gradually
revealed his claim to that of a Manifestation, also granted
outrageously grades of divinity to his disciples,301 while Bahá’u’lláh,
conversely, by his declaration to be the coming of the One God Shell
Make Manifest (man yaziruhu’llah) — whom the Báb expected being
even greater as the Bab himself,302 the Manifestation in which all
religions flow together (again) — resumed all distributed divinity back
into the singular universal event of his appearance. It is in this event
that the whole world was created anew by a divine infusion with all
the divine attributes, with grace, mercy, forgiveness, and renewal.303
Symbolically, that is, considered as spiritual reality (thesis 7), with the
coming of a new Manifestation all creatures expire, are inhaled, as it
were, and are, out of this moment of divine inhalation of the Spirit
and into silence, exhaled again, recreated. Through this event, all
reality is being born again into a new process that erases all ancient
stations and recreates them anew in unexpected ways into
unprecedented forms.304 If in the new revelation on the spiritual level
only the “face” of God remains, that is, the primordial Manifestation
resuming all reality, then its symbolic re-presentation is always such
that it does not matter what anyone’s station was before its new
appearance, except it is newly defined by its relation to this novel
event by which all is recreated.305 All stations, even of all past
Manifestations, are, therefore, in a sense redefined by the new event
of a universal Manifestation. On this view, it does not really matter
what station Laozi has had.306 It is in the connection that one finds to
Bahá’u’lláh in which one may also find Laozi’s relevance today,
reverberating through his Dao De Jing in new splendor. “Now is the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
time,” says ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “when we restrict our discussion to the
Most Great Luminary of Peace and Salvation in the Age, to talk of
the Blessed Perfection and to voice His exhortations, behests and
teachings. … [The] sovereignty [of former Manifestation] in this
world is ended and their cycle is completed” [SWAB 469].
11. The Dao of Bahá
In conclusion, what is the challenge of Laozi and the Dao De Jing
for the Bahá’í universe of discourse? Sure, we might have enough to
work through with the host of diverse correspondences and
differences in detail as developed up to this point — such as the
resonances in the understanding of the unmanifest and hidden as well
as the manifest and creative ultimate divine reality; the relativity of
(religious) truths; the striving for education and perfection of human
potential in light of this ultimate reality and its exemplars; the effort
to liberate us from empty repetition of traditions and manipulations
of social and psychological dependences; the mutual resonances of
the respective Manifestations of Reality/ Dao in wise and prophetic
figures; and the effort to reform human society in light of the whole
of humanity and with universal peace as aim, among others. Yet, a
maybe even deeper dimension of fruitful cross-pollination may come
to light only if we reformulate the assumption regarding the unity of
religions, which was underlying the whole conversation all along,
namely: in form of a reflection on the one universal Dao of all
religions as the Dao of bahá, of the latest Manifestation of the Dao,
of ultimate Reality in “person.”
If the many books and reflections beginning with “the Dao of…”307
have brought something to light, then it is the insistence on a certain
shift of our perception of reality as a whole, a shift of the worldview,
the cosmology that is more often than not tacitly presupposed in our
day by day evaluation of our lives and in some sense or another
underlies any philosophical and religious discourse, and so also the
ones reflected on here. The mathematician and philosopher Alfred
North Whitehead has made this insight the basis of his philosophical
investigations308 so that by knitting together the major spheres of
thought
(science,
religion
and
philosophy)309
he
could
programmatically proclaim: “Science suggested a cosmology; and
whatever suggests a cosmology, suggest a religion.”310 The emphasis in

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?
such a correlation and mutual induction of these spheres on the level
of a cosmology, whether implicit or as a reflected worldview of any
scientific and religious discourse and their mutual integrations, is to
recognize not only the unity of humanity and religions (with its/their
Manifestations) in the unity of God. The true nature of unity as
envisioned by the Dao of Laozi and the Dao De Jing is of
encompassing cosmological breadth that intends nothing less than the
unity of the whole “body of the world”311 as pervaded by the one
divine Spirit that vivifies the universe in a process of the emergence
of mind and the various evolutionary harmonizations of its members
throughout all of its spheres and layers of existence.312 The Dao, then,
translated in Bahá’í terms, is this all-embracing and all-pervading
Reality of the Spirit, the working of its essence in all of nature,
including elementary particles, living beings and humanity.313 This
one Spirit pervades the All of cosmic reality.314 To see in the diversity
of cosmic existence this unity of beauty and the evolving force of
unification315 is to feel or see or experience or perceive or inherit the
unseen and unnamed Dao/Reality, and is to become a mirror of its
all-pervasive working.316 Human perfection, then, lies not in the
flight from the world of nature, but in the realization of all divine
attributes, which are seeking realization in all of existence,317 not
only among humanity and society, but also in all of nature, our
precious Earth and the cosmos as a whole. The Dao is this inner
nature (ziran) that unites all of existence, physical and mental,
subjective and objective, individual and collective, personal and
social, visible and invisible, sacred and profane, material and
spiritual, and is always already present and at work in the process of
becoming, the becoming of new worlds and new spiritual beings,
even beyond humanity.318 Yet, of course, as practitioners of Daoism
can and will claim their own understanding of these matter,
historically, philosophically, and religiously — and especially in the
context of Chinese self-identity, which does not so much discern
between the “Three Traditions” than identify with them — these
references for a contemporary Bahá’í perception, reception and
dialogue will remain in flux.319
It is, then, in this wide view of cosmic unity in which the Dao of
Laozi reclaims a “face” in the “Dao” of Bahá’u’lláh. In this universal,
evolutionary,
ecological
Dao,
universal
Reality
(the
primal
Manifestation of the apophatic Reality/God/Truth) becomes, indeed,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
relative in all of its happenings and truths/daos far beyond particular
religions, even particular spiritual beings, such as humanity; it
becomes relative to all sentient beings beyond humanity (as in
Buddhism); and it becomes implicitly always already related to the
whole of existence as one process of divine Reality or Realization.320
In this universal ecological model of unity, the Dao speaks for all
beings and in all beings with one voice, a univocity of infinitely many
voices.321 In a pluralism of all beings on their respective levels of
intensity of the flow of the one Most Great Spirit,322 “its”
Manifestations give voice to this univocity “in person.”323



NOTES
1 Cf. Ninian Smart, The World’s Religions. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1998, chs. 1, 3.
2 Cf. Arvind Sharma, A Primal Perspective on the Philosophy of Religion.
Dordrecht, NL: Springer 2006, 1-32.
3 Cf. Eva Wong, Taoism: An Essential Guide. Boston: Shambala, 1997, ch. 1.
4 As we will see later, in section 10, this claim must be relativized in relation
to its historical accuracy, as it the circumstances for the identity the
person and the becoming of the book are quote complicated.
5 Cf. Alan Watts, What is Dao? Novato, CA: New World Library, 2000, 36.
6 Cf. Dann May, “The Bahá’í Principle of Religious Unity,” in Jack McLean,
ed., Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Los
Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997, 1-36.
7 Although a wider shamanic religiosity may have been pervasive throughout
the different pre-historic cultural areas, the emergence of Chinese
religions or Daoic religiosity is not in any direct way dependent on the
Indian and South Asian or Dharmic traditions and in its origins and
further developments always demonstrates its own unique characteristics.
Nevertheless, in the later confluence of these streams of religious
universes diverse daoic schools and religious expressions, Daoism among
them, with Indian Buddhism has led to transferences of categories and
mutual synergies such as have contributed to the appearance of Chan and
Zen Buddhism and other confluences of the Dao with philosophical and
religious connotations in these encounters. Cf. Ray Grigg, The Tao of
Zen. Edison, NJ: Alva Press, 1994. More will be said in sections 8 and 10.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


8 Cf. Moojan Momen, “A Bahá’í Approach to Other Religions: The Example
of Buddhism,” in Moojan Momen, ed., The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s
Religions. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003, 167-188.
9 Cf. Seena Fazel, “Interreligious Dialogue and the Bahá’í Faith: Some
Preliminary Observations,” in Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives on a Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997,
137-152. This integration must, as all other unifications in the context of
the understanding of “unity” in the Bahá’í writings, be seen in the tension
between indelible uniqueness (‘ahad) and inclusiveness (wahid); cf. Rhett
Diessner, Psyche and Eros: Bahá’í Studies in a Spiritual Psychology.
Oxford: George Ronald, 2007, ch. 1. This oscillation between uniqueness
and embracing unification is also enshrined in Shoghi Effendi’s two
formulations: first, “unity in diversity,” which must not ever be mis-
understood as uniformity, and second, the “complementarity” of religions
in their contribution to the one history of religions; but even more so in
the fact that the one religion, of which the Bahá’í Faith understands itself
as a part, is an ongoing, always self-transcending process beyond any
religion, even the Bahá’í Faith. Cf. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: IL, Bahá’í Publishing, 1993, sections “Unity in
Diversity” and “Fundamental Principle of Religious Truth.” For the
philosophical and transreligious implications, cf. Roland Faber, The
Divine Manifold. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2014, passim.
10 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1911.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2011, #14.
11 This will have a great deal to do with the mystical consciousness that
unites us with the unknowable mystery beyond; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven
Valleys and the Four Valleys. Translated by Marzieh Gail. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing, 1991, 91. In the Fourth Valley (of the Four Valleys) we
read: “If the mystic knowers be of those who have reached to the beauty
of the Beloved One (Maḥbúb), this station is the apex
of consciousness and the secret of divine guidance.” This consciousness
will also lead us into the heart of the Dao De Jing.
12 Cf. Phyllis Chew, The Chinese Religion and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1993.
13 Cf. Wing-Tsit Chan, A Source Book in Chinese Philosophy. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1963. While this influence of the Dao de Jing
has created worldwide presence, this article will, of course, not claim to
understand the historical situation of its becoming and transmission,
especially in China and throughout Chinese culture and the “Chinese
religions,” but will especially take into account the scholarly engagement
with it, its history and becoming, as well as its contemporary
interpretations in light of interreligious and cross-cultural philosophical
discourses, which have taken place after its western academic reception,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


but also the contemporary interreligious interest accompanying the
interest in its content and meaning.
14 Bahá’u’lláh uses the term haykal as embodiment of divine presence, which
can assume the form of a literal or symbolic temple, the human body; or it
indicates the heart, which is the place of divine revelation and presence in
creatures. Revelation can, therefore, take the form of an embodied person
or/and a “book,” that is, the prophet and his or her book. Cf. Bahá’u’lláh,
Days of Remembrance: Selections from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh for
the Bahá’í Holy Days. Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 2016, #40:6: “O night
of the All-Bountiful! In thee do We verily behold the Mother Book. Is it
a Book, in truth, or rather a child begotten?”
15 Regarding such a transreligious notion of “revelation,” cf. Keith Ward,
Religion and Revelation. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1994, parts 2 and 3.
The term “Big Five” has come into use as many introductions of religion
or investigations into specific religious matters related to “world
religions” have often reduced their view, or concentrated on, these five
religions, often to the exception of other traditions. While the Bahá’í
writings firmly add Zoroastrianism and the mysterious Sabian/Sabaean
religion(s), some introductions widen their horizon to Jainism and
Sikhism or, in rare cases, even to the Bahá’í Faith. Cf. George Chryssides
and Ron Geaves, The Study of Religion: An Introduction to Key Ideas
and Methods. London: Bloomsbury, 2007, ch. 3.
16 Cf. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing, 1970, 94-
96; Christopher Buck, “A Unique Eschatological Interface: Bahá’u’lláh and
Cross-Cultural Messianism,” in Peter Smith, ed., In Iran: Studies in Bábí
and Bahá’í History. Vol. 3. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1986, 157-180.
17 While section 10 of this article will wrestle with this questions, it should
be clear from the outset that answering this question either in the
affirmative or negative would not have any influence on the value of
Daoism, Laozi, and the Dao De Jing as philosophical and religious
entities, or better, a living organism and its importance for the future of
religions in their philosophical and religious expressions. However, as will
be seen later, I will not even intend to “answer” this question in any
simple way, but rather take the uniqueness of their contributions to
world-philosophies and –religions as a mirror for differentiating the
question and harvesting the insights gained by doing so for the Bahá’í
universe of discourse. Hence, my title-question, whether Laozi is a “lost
prophet” must not be misunderstood as presupposing that he necessarily
is a prophet (in anyone’s eyes), but as a question that addresses the
interest of the Bahá’í concept of the Manifestation of God in the context
of another religion. While it may be true that such a claim—to
prophethood—is not an inherent necessity or even a real possibility in the
context of eastern religions, it should, therefore, not be summed that the

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


Abrahamic institution and notion of “prophethood” is merely applied by
asking this question. Rather, if we substitute, as the reverse is sometimes
the case in Bahá’í parlor, the word “prophet” with Manifestation (mazhar-
i ilahi), we immediately have left this limitation.
18 Of course, in the first place, the engagement with Daoism, as with any
other religion, in the Bahá’í context is a fascinating and rewarding quest
and an imperative, given the presupposition of the Bahá’í axiom of the
unity of all religions. Yet, as imperative, it is always also a challenge as the
details of such a “unity” will be of revealing and enriching nature, even if
we might not immediately “see” how differences and unison are to be
understood or (in an intellectually satisfying and spiritually gratifying
way) achieved. It is in this sense, that the Bahá’í imperative of  unity is an
even stronger impulse to reflection than the usual interreligious
engagements of comparative religion, comparative theology, or
interreligious dialogues; cf. Perry Schmidt-Leukel, Religious Pluralism and
Interreligious Theology: The Gifford Lectures—An Extended Version.
New York: Orbis Books, 2016.
19 In general, the different magnitudes of the presence of diverse religions in
the Bahá’í writings must be understood from the historical fact and
hermeneutical principle of the (historical and geographical) “location” of
any event, such as a new religion, like the Bábi-Bahá’í religions, as it will
harbor inherent limitations of access and understanding of hearers and
listeners to its new revelation in any given context. As Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu'l-Bahá explain, their references to divers religions were not only
related to the ability of their audience to understand, but also by the
religious adherence and context of questions and questioners present and
inquiring, which/whom they often answered with their books, tablets and
letters. This is also a liberating insight, as it is not the limitations of the
Manifestations that define the language and references they use to explain
their revelations, but the limitations of the time and place in which they
appear; hence, the meaning of their teachings and the categories they use
must not be reduced to these contexts either, but can and must be
translated into new contexts; cf. Momen, “Bahá’í Approach,” in Momen,
Bahá’í Faith, 167-188.
20 The one specific reference of Shoghi Effendi to Laozi and how to
understand him in the Bahá’í context will become the driving impulse of
section 10 where it is quoted, and the analysis of which will take up all of
the latter third of this article.
21 It should be mentioned at this point that the references of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá to
Chinese religion or religions (such as Buddhism and Confucianism) can
and should also be understood as signifying and, hence, implying Daoism
so that they are relevant to its discussion. This is even more so of
importance as in the Chinese context, as we will see later, the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


differentiation between the religious traditions, especially Daoism,
Confucianism, Chinese forms of Buddhism, and the so called “folk
religion,” are less of importance than the Chinese identity that they
together express in their relation to China as unified, or confluent,
spiritual heritage.
22 With the sparse sources in this regard, we are in a similar situation as with
considerations regarding the possibility of Native American “prophets” or
Manifestations; cf. Christopher Buck, “Native Messengers of God in
Canada? A test case for Bahá’í universalism,” in The Bahá’í Studies Review
6 (1996): 97-133; C. Buck, “Bahá’í Universalism and Native Prophets,” in
Seena Fazel and John Danesh, eds., Reason and Revelation: New
Directions in Bahá’í Thought. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2002, 173-201.
23 This caveat holds all the more in light of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that all
religions are not just creatures of human imagination, but of divine
revelation; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 1976, #111. One might also think of the
religion of the Sabians/Sabeans, of which we do not only not know any
founder, but of which we also cannot even be sure what group it
identifies (many are suggested in historical research). What is even more,
in Islamic interreligious discourses, their name functions often as means
to integrate other religions, such as Buddhism, into the sphere of divine
guidance. Cf. Christopher Buck, “The Identity of the Sabi’un: An
Historical Quest,” in The Muslim World 74:3-4 (1984): 172-186.
24 Cf. SAQ #43.
25 Shoghi Effendi has clarified that Confucius is not signified a
Manifestation by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; cf. Helen Bassett Hornby, Lights of
Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. New Deli: Bahá’í Publishing, 2010,
#1685. Yet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #43, in the same section, states
Confucius together with the Buddha as claimed by “worshipers,” which
would suggest a religion, not an ethics. And in another context, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá mentions Confucius in one series of names together with only other
founders of religions such that Confucius would be the only one captured
by the term “blessed souls,” which binds all of them together, to be
(grammatically oddly) excluded from the series. Besides, although not
authoritative, pilgrim notes exist in which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá answers the
question whether Confucius was a Manifestation affirmatively. But the
point, here, is not to decide whether there are conflictual statements or to
establish a hermeneutics that would resolve such questions on a chain of
authority, but to hint at the fact that these questions need not necessarily
be answered with the most simple explanations; rather, they are worth to
be thought through in their ambivalences, complexities, and hidden folds,
as section 10 will attempt.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


26 The other equally important person and text being (the) Zhuhangzi (the
person and the book) to which I will not refer here further, but
who/which would be important to add to complete the picture or, at
least, to see the development of (philosophical) Daoism more clearly and
fully. Cf. Burton Watson, The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu. New
York: Columbia University Press, 1968; Victor Mair, Wandering on the
Way: Early Taoist Tales and Parables of Chuang Tzu. Honolulu:
University of Hawai’i Press, 1994. Resent research also indicates that
there may be even older texts on which both the Dao De Jing on which
might depend; cf. Harold Roth, Inward Training (Nei-yeh) and the
Foundations of Taoist Mysticism. NY: Columbia University Press, 2004.
27 The textual history of Daoism is more complicated, as it comprises a
whole universe of texts that, later, were understood as scriptural basis of
religious Daoist identity. And it cannot be claimed that any of the early
texts has already settled into a fixed identity by which it would be
possible anachronistically to differentiate diverse religions as mutually
stable identities. They are rather differentiating “schools” of thought,
spirituality, and ceremonials, more than (independent or mutually
exclusive) religions; cf. Livia Kohn, The God of Dao: Lord Lao in History
and Myth. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan, 2000, chs. 1-2.
28 This approach, one of possibilities, or a multiplicity of potential answers,
is not only meant to address the question directed toward Laozi alone, but
rather to open a space in which complex considerations regarding the
Bahá’í concept of the Manifestations of God in relation to all religions
can be raised and pondered, but, here, as triggered by the unique profile
of Daoism, especially in the mirror of the Dao De Jing and the figure of
Laozi, that otherwise might not easily come to the surface or could go
unreflected. For a similar, but much wider field of considerations
regarding the concept of Manifestation in light of a multiplicity of
religions, cf. R. Faber, The Garden of Reality: Transreligious Relativity in
a World of Becoming. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2018, ch. 7-8.
29 Cf. Wong, Taoism, chs. 1-3. For early forms and groups, cf. Gil Raz, The
Emergence of Daoism: Creation of Tradition, New York: Routledge,
2011.
30 Cf. Terry Kleeman, Celestial Masters: History and Ritual in Early Daoist
Communities, Cambridge: Harvard University Asia Center, 2016.
31 Cf. Pierre Destrée and Fritz-Georg Herrmann, eds., Plato and the Poets.
Leiden: Brill, 2011.
32 Cf. J. J. Clarke, The Tao of the West: Western Transformation of Taoist
Thought. New York: Routledge, 2000, ch. 3.
33 Cf. Ingrid Fischer-Schreiber, The Shambala Dictionary of Taoism.
Translated by Werner Wünsche. Boston, MA: Shambala, 1996, 176.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


34 Cf. John Blofeld, Taoism: The Road to Immortality. Boston, MA:
Shambala, 2000, chs. 5-7.
35 Cf. Isabelle Robinet, Taoism: Growth of a Religion. Stanford: Stanford
University Press, 1997, 1-24. As we will se later, the same is true for the
entanglement of Daoist schools and strains with that of Confucian and
Buddhist provenience, philosophically as well as religiously, which created
a fascinating rhizome of interactions and mutual coinherences.
36 Cf. Wilfred C. Smith, The Meaning and End of Religion. Minneapolis:
Fortress, 1991, chs. 2-3. Smith has demonstrated that for the study of
religion the term religion is a fairly new and late term, used to categorize
mostly western sensitivities on the basis of the Enlightenment and modern
secular differentiations of spheres of living such as culture, society,
economy, and so on. It was also used to imperialistically capture other
spiritual paths either for missionary reasons or subordination under a
specific tradition, preeminently Christianity, as the peak and essence of
religion. Many scholars have, therefore, tried to avoid this term as
description of spiritual ways in order to withhold its prejudicial
prescriptive implications as well as the unspoken presupposition that
there is an already defined essence of religion(s) that needs only to be
applied while, in fact, it was gathered from a specific tradition and
projected onto others. Cf. John Cobb, “Some Whiteheadian Assumptions
about Religion and Pluralism,” in David Griffin, ed., Deep Religious
Pluralism. Louisville, Westminster John Knox, 2005, ch. 12. Exceptions,
however, arise historically with Manichaeism and Islam, as both of them
use the term religion (din) self-reflectively; cf. Smith, Meaning, ch. 4. For
Bahá’u’lláh’s reconceptualization of “religion” in light of this Islamic and
pre-Islamic stream from its much more spiritual origin in Zoroastrian
texts, cf. Kamran Ekbal, “Daéna-Dén-Dín: The Zoroastrian Heritage of
the ‘Maid of Heaven’ in the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan Momen,
ed.,Scripture and Revelation: Papers presented at the First Irfan
Colloquium, Oxford: George Ronald, 1997.
37 The relation between religion and philosophy is an ancient problem and
widely discussed where “revelation” becomes the discerning mark of
religions. But if we change our perspective and seek the transformative
character of a teaching, as ancient Greek philosophy did (versus a purely
intellectual endeavor), we will find the difference harder to establish.
Ancient philosophers were sages, as sages were often religious figures, as
for instance evidenced by Pythagoras. Hence Laozi was not considered
merely an intellectual figure, but a transformative force of living a
spiritual life. Cf. Yu-Lan Fung, A Short History of Chinese Philosophy: A
Systematic Account of Chinese Thought from its Origins to the Present
Day. NY: Free Press, 1948, chs. 1-2. For further discussion, cf. section 10.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


38 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #132; Seena Fazel, “Religious Pluralism and the
Bahá’í Faith,” in Interreligious Insight 1:3 (2003): 42- 49.
39 It would seem that this approach is a natural implication and extension of
Shoghi Effendi’s insight that the oneness of religions does not hinder their
differences in the sense of a relational complementarity; Cf. Shoghi
Effendi, The Promised Day is Come. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing,
1996, #I. For such a complementarity to be actually of some value, it can
only evoke insights if the content brought into complimentary
conversation is not already a priori known and included in one’s own
horizon, such that even the assumed “completeness” of one’s own
scriptures and wisdom path does not reveal such insights if they are not
accepted as a gift of that particular tradition—as an aspect of truth that in
fact adds to insight; cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #15. This is a major
problem in interreligious discourses, related to the differentiation
between certain forms of inclusivism (that my truth supersedes and fulfills
all others) and pluralism (that there is mutual enrichment); cf. Raimon
Panikkar, The Intra-Religious Dialogue. New York: Paulist Press, 1999.
40 The later development of Daoism, however, will in some sense open up to
the idea of “revelation,” for instance, in the movement of Zhang Daoling
of the second century C.E., who claimed to have received revelations
from Laozi, and on which revelations the important sect of the Celestial
Masters is based; cf. Clarke, Tao, 33; Fischer-Schreiber, Dictionary, 9-10;
Robinet, Taoism, ch. 3.
41 Chew, Religions, 196.
42 Yet, it is in no way clear that these categories, that of the philosopher, the
sage, the holy figure, and the prophet, cannot also intersect in a west-
Asian (Abrahamic) context. Pythagoras, for instance, was, in his time,
rather a religious leader than a philosopher in the modern sense. Note that
Bahá’u’lláh in his Tablet of Wisdom considers Apollonius of Tyana, who
seem to have been received as a holy figure in his time, even as a counter-
example to Jesus, as a Greek messiah of sort, rather than a philosopher;
cf. Keven Brown, “Hermes Trismegistos and Apollonius of Tyana in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.” In Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Studies in the Bábi and Bahá’í
Religions. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997, 153-188. And Bahá’u’lláh
even mentions Hermes Trismegistos, who in Islamic lore was already
identified with the Qur’anic prophet Idris, and the Hebrew patriarch
Enoch, as the originator of philosophy; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i Hikmat
(Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitab-i
Aqdas. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 1994, 148n3. And then there is
Socrates, whom Bahá’u’lláh not only mentions as an exceptional
philosopher, but as a divinely inspired holy man of Truth; ibid, 147—as

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


there is also a long tradition that seems to imply the worthiness of
Socrates to compared with Jesus. More is said in section 10.
43 Yet, in this sense, the sage is the representation of perfect humanity; cf.
Wing-Tsit Chan, Source Book, 761. Hence, the sage seems to embody
ideals of the “revelation” of ultimate rightness in the cosmos as a whole,
not unlike certain prophetic figures in the west-Asian religions of
Abrahamic flavor as well as the “Perfect Man” tradition in diverse Jewish,
Gnostic, Christian, and Islamic philosophical speculations; cf. Frederick
Borsch, The Son of Man in Myth and History. Philadelphia: The
Westminster Press, 1967, chs. 2-6; Henry Corbin, Alone with the Alone:
Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn ‘Arabi. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 1997, 131-133. Here again seems to appear a
transreligious connection to the Bahá’í notion of Manifestation (mazhar-i
Ilahi); cf. Juan Ricardo Cole, “The Concept of Manifestation in the
Bahá’í Writings,” in Bahá’í Studies 9 (1982) @ http://bahai-
library.com/cole_concept_manifestation.
44Cf. Chew, Religions, 82-83.
45 Cf. Wong, Taoism, 31-37.
46 Cf. Wong, Taoism, 37-41; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, ch. 24.
47Cf. Kohn, God, passim. With the divinization of Laozi in the late Han
dynasty—Robinet, Taoism, xviv fixes the date at 166 C.E.—Laozi is
depicted as creator of the universe, and he is elevated to the highest
depiction of ultimate reality by being admitted into it in the form of the
Three Pure Ones; cf.; Clarke, Tao, 67-68; Blofeld, Taoism, 95; Taoism,
Isabelle Robinet, Taoist Meditation: The Mao-Shan Tradition of Great
Purity. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1993, ch. 6. See
further discussion in section 10.
48 Cf. Faber, Garden, Prologue, chs. 3, 8; John Walbridge, The Wisdom of
the Mystic East: Suhrawardi and Platonic Orientalism. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press, 2001.
49 If we compare the Dao less with the particulars of the Greek, Jewish, and
Christian Logos tradition, which leans itself more to controlled order,
even if it is related to reason, as in Stoicism and Philo of Alexandria, but
with the Wisdom tradition as represented with the biblical and
intertestamentary books of Proverbs(ch. 8) or Wisdom of Salomon(ch. 7),
we may begin to understand better the existing subliminal transreligious
relations between east and west, that is, the prophetic and wisdom
oriented religions, as Wisdom operates by attraction, not by force, not
even that of logic, and as Wisdom embodies itself in the sages as well as in
the prophets; cf. Larry W. Hurtado, One God, One Lord: Early Christian
Devotion and Ancient Jewish Monotheism. London: Bloomsbury, 2015,
ch. 2; James D. G. Dunn, Christology in the Making: A New Testament

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


Inquiry into the Origins of the doctrine of the Incarnation. Grand Rapids:
Eerdmans Publishing, 1996, chs. 6-7. See further discussions in section 10.
50 Cf. Thomas Cleary, The Essential Tao: An Introduction into the Heart of
Taoism through the Authentic Tao De Ching and the Inner Teachings of
Chuang Tzu. New York: Harper Collins Publishers, 1991, ch. 1. This is
also in line with the fact that early Chinese religion(s) were differentiated
more in terms of schools than denominations, and important texts were
often shared between all of them, although their value in those schools
might have been different.
51 Cf. Wong, Taoism, ch. 6.
52Alan Watts, What is Tao? Novato, CA: New World Library, 2000, 37-38.
53 Cf. Joseph Needham, Science and Civilization in China. Vol. 2.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996, 68-71.
54 Cf. Chan, Source Book, chs. 6-7. That this is not just a western
interpretation of the Dao can be witnessed by the considerations of the
Chinese scholar Meijun Wang, “Conviviality with Dao: A Chinese
Perspective,” in Roland Faber and Santiago Slabodsky, eds., Living
Traditions and Universal Conviviality: Prospects and Challenges for Peace
in Multireligious Communities. Edited by. Lanham, MD: Lexington
Books, 2016, 67-78.
55 Cf. Fung, History, 97; Robinet, Taoism, 26.
56 Cf. Chad Hansen, A Daoist Theory of Chinese Thought: A Philosophical
Interpretation. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992, ch. 6.
57 Cf. Blofeld, Taoism, 1-19; Watts, Tao, 41-41.
58 Cf. Chan, Source Book, 136-137.
59 Cf. Robinet, Meditation, 42-48.
60 Cf. Fung, Source Book, 94-97; Cf. Phyllis Chew, “The Great Tao,” in The
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 4:2 (1991): 11-39.
61 Jonathan Star, Tao Te Ching: The Definite Edition. New York: Jeremy P.
Tarcher/Putnam, 2001, #1.
62 Cf. Rob Stockman, The Bahá’í Faith: A Guide for the Perplexed. New
York: Bloomsbury Academic, 2013, ch. 3.
63 Cf. Stephen Lambden, Introduction to The Lawh-i haqq/Lawh al-Haqq
(Tablet of Truth/True One/Ultimately Real...) @
http://hurqalya.ucmerced.edu/node/378/.
64 Instead of setting up the world in opposites (in permanent conceptual
strive for superiority), the Dao categorizes everything fluently as
contrasts in mutual immanence and of a flow into one another; cf. Clarke,
Tao, ch. 8. The unknowability and essential hiddenness of the Dao, even
to the extent to call it “nothing” (wu) or “true nothingness” (zhen wu)—cf.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


Robinet, Taoism, 194-195—is a great example of non-dual thinking, which
also characterizes Bahá’u’lláh’s understanding of Reality (al-haqq) beyond
differentiations of theism and monism, but also beyond even the simple
opposition between being and nothingness; cf. Roland Faber, “Baha'u'llah
and the Luminous Mind: Baha'i Gloss on a Buddhist Puzzle,” in Lights of
Irfan 18 (2017): 53-106.
65 For more conversation between the mystical dimension of the Dao, its
activation in the multiplicity of the world(s) and our Selves, and the
Bahá’í writings; cf. Faber, Garden, ch. 3.
66 In the reflection of Chinese history of thought and culture, one might
even say that without the Dao De Jing, the authorship of which is credited
to the legendary Laozi, Chinese civilization would not have been the same
or dramatically different; cf. Chan, Source Book, 136.
67 Cf. Olivia Kohn and Michael LaFargue, eds., Lao-Tzu and the Tao-Te-
Ching. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999, chs. 1-3.
68 Laozi is a title rather than a name, meaning Old Master. It may refer to a
wise man with the name (Li) Erh and also, in Daoist and Confucian
literature, Lao Tan; cf. Chen, Tao Te Ching, 6-10.
69 Cf. Ellen Chen, The Tao De Ching: A New Translation with Commentary.
St. Paul, MN: Paragon House, 1989, 6-18.
70 Cf. Fischer-Schreiber, Dictionary, 88-90; Robinet, Taoism, 19, 26.
71 Cf. Chen, Tao De Ching, 16-17; Chew, Religions, 24-25; Fischer-Schreiber,
Dictionary, 89.
72 Cf. Jaspers, Karl, The Great Philosophers, Vol. 2: The Original Thinkers:
Anaximander, Heraclitus, Parmenides, Plotinus, Lao-tzu, Nagarjuna.
Edited by Hannah Arendt. New York: Harcourt, Brace and World, Inc.,
1966. Jaspers adds also Zhuangzi, Liezi, Elijah, Jeremiah, Deutero-Isaiah,
Homer, Parmenides, Heraclitus, Plato, among others, to the axial list,
indicating this awakening to be one especially of consciousness, not of
narrow religious (revelatory) or even only western emergences; cf. Karl
Jaspers, The Origin and Goal of History. New York: Routledge, 2010, 8,
278-279 n5 (of p. 53), ch. 5.
73 This mutual interference and development of Daoism, Confucianism, and
Buddhism is known as the “3 Traditions” approach; cf. Clarke, Tao, 22-28.
74 Cf. Diane Morgan, The Best Guide to Eastern Philosophy and Religion.
New York: renaissance Books, 2001, 223; C. Alexander and Annellen
Simpkins, Simple Taoism: A Guide to Living in Balance. North Clarendon,
VT: Tuttle Publishing, 1999, 11.
75 Cf. Fischer-Schreiber, Dictionary, 56-57, 90; Morgan, Guide, 225.
76 This extraordinary crossing of lines by Bahá’u’lláh was not totally
unknown in other religious contexts. One may think of the integration of

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


the Zoroastrian king Cyrus as Jewish Messiah in Isaiah 45 into Jewish
salvation history; or the “Old Testament,” integrating the Jewish Hebrew
Bible into Christian scripture; or the critical confluence of Islam and
Hinduism in Sikhism. But the maybe closest predecessor of the idea of
multi-religious prophethood was the figure of Mani whose movement
became a “world religion” stretching from the Levant to China and Japan
for over a thousand years before Bahá’u’lláh claimed the integration of all
religions and to be the “return” of all Manifestations of the past in his
prophethood; cf. Buck, “Interface,” 157-160. I  fact, Mani claimed to be
the return not only of Jesus, but also that of Zoroaster and the Buddha;
cf. Smith, Meaning, 93.
77 Cf. Geoffrey Parrinder, Avatar and Incarnation: The Divine in Human
Form in the World’s Religions. Oxford: Oneworld, 1997, chs. 2, 11.
78 Cf. Moojan Momen, Hinduism and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1990, 5-11.
79 Cf. Arvind Sharma, “Buddhism met Hinduism: Interaction and Influence
in India,” in Arvind Sharma, ed., The World's Religions: A Contemporary
Reader. Minneapolis: Fortress Press, 2011, 234-40; Roland Faber, ““Must
‘religion’ always remain as a synonym for ‘hatred?’”: Whiteheadian
Meditations on the Future of Togetherness,” in Faber and Slabodsky,
Living Traditions, 167-82.
80 Michael Sours, The Station and Claims of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing, 1997, ch. 5.
81 Cf. Chen, Tao Te Ching, 10.
82 Cf. Chew, Religions, 24.
83 Cf. Chan, Source Book, 36-41, 430-431.
84 The Dao De Jing is situated in the time of warring local states against one
another and should be read as a profound criticism of the political
barbarism this situation implied. Hence, it lays out a political philosophy
of harmony that, if realized, would indicate the ideal of civilization that
the myth from the deliberate choice of Laozi for exile emphasizes as being
impossible to be established; cf. Wong, Taoism, ch. 2.
85 Joseph Needham, Science and Civilization in China. Vol 6/2. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1984, 85-93.
86 Cf. Chen, Tao Te Ching, 10-12; Chew, Religions, 24; Fischer-Schreiber,
Dictionary, 88.
87 It is an “anthology”: cf. Alan Chan, “Laozi,” in Stanford Encyclopedia of
Philosophy (5/2/2013), ch. 4 @
https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/laozi/#TexTra; Chan, Source Book,
137-138. This collection also indicates that it was prepared by a group of
authors, rather than by one person.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


88 Cf. Star, Tao Te Ching, 7-9.
89 Cf. Annemarie Schimmel, The Mystery of Numbers. NY: Oxford
University Press, 1993, 164-180. Schimmel may indicate a relationship of
the (number of) 81 (chapters) of the Dao De Jing to the birth myth of
Laozi, who, in one version, was born 9x9 years after his conception (170).
90 Cf. Peter Smith, A Concise Encyclopedia of the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford:
Oneworld, 2008, 261; Stephen Lambden “The Word Bahá: Quintessence
of the Greatest Name,” in Bahá’í Studies Review 3:1 (1993): 19-42.
91 Cf. Fischer-Schreiber, Dictionary, 175.
92 Cf. Cleary, Tao, 2. This early estimate is of course challenged by the fact
that the Dao De Jing was already a reaction to Confucianism, imagining a
different kind of society, and, hence, must be later in origin or, as a
collection, fitting more into the time of the warring states of the third
century B.C.E.; cf. Chen, Tao Te Ching, 5, 21.
93 Cf. Chan, “Laozi,” ch. 3; Chen, Tao Te Ching, ch. 3
94 Cf. Alan Chan, “The Daode Jing and Its Tradition,” in Olivia Kohn, ed.,
Daoism Handbook, Leiden: Brill, 2000, 1-29.
95 Cf. Clarke, Tao, 61.
96 Cf. Chan, Source Book, 137.
97 Cf. Robinet, Taoism, 29. On the diverse traditional commentaries, cf.
Chan, “Laozi,” ch. 4.
98 Cf. Chad Hansen, “Daoism,” in The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy
(Fall 2014 Edition), ch. 2 @
http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2014/entries/daoism/. Dao Jia,
although it cannot ever be separated from origins in alchemical and
shamanic surroundings and the development of its central figures into
religious heroes, like Laozi, of Dao Jiao, can of course not be reduced to
Laozi and the Dao De Jing, but, nevertheless, he and his book remain the
“foundational” text together with the Zhuangzi and several other ancient
works in a tradition that from the beginning has gathered itself among
many traditions—the “thousand schools”—and among several streams of
reception and interpretation, one of which might have been a Laozi-
school. Cf. Blofeld, Taoism, chs. 1-2; Fung, History, chs. 2-3; Robinet,
Taoism, ch. 1; Chan, Source Book, chs. 2-16; Chen, Tao Te Ching, 8-9.
99 Cf. Wong, Taoism, ch. 2.
100 Cf. Grigg, Tao, 29-57; Clarke, Tao, ch. 2; Chan, Source Book, 136; Chen,
Tao Te Ching, 15-18, ch. 2; Fung, History, chs. 18-26.
101 Cf. Chen, Tao, 15-18; Watts, Tao, 27-31.
102 Cf. Needham, Science. Vol. 2, 86-100; Chad Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 3.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


103 Cf. Jacques Gernet, A History of Chinese Civilization. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1999, 102; Clarke, Tao, 105.
104 Cf. Chad Hansen, A Daoist Theory of Chinese Thought: A Philosophical
Interpretation. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992, ch. 6; Clarke,
Tao, ch. 5. Yet, as many ideas, they may have been ideals, never to be
realized in pure form, as, in fact, under the influence of Daoist political
reign feudalism prevailed; cf. Kristofer Schipper, The Daoist Body. Trans.
by Karen Duval. Berkeley: University of California, 1993, ch. 1.
105Cf. Watts, Tao, 46-50.
106 Cf. Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 9.1.1. The differentiation between why and
how does not exclude the Dao to be understood in metaphysical terms of
ultimate reality—as it is mostly perceived to be: cf. Blofeld, Taoism, ch. 1;
Chew, Religion, 25-28—but it warns us to attempt understanding ultimate
reality beyond our ability to act, or to divide between mysticism and
metaphysical insight, on the one hand, and ethics, world-engagement and
social action, on the other. This might indicate a resonance of intention
between the Dao Dee Jing and Bahá’u’lláh’s explication of mystical-
ethical insights in his “prophetic” collection of the Hidden Words. Cf.
Todd Lawson, “Globalization and the Hidden Words,” in Margit
Warburg, Annika Hvithamar and Morten Warmind, eds., Baha’i and
Globalization. Aarhus: Aarhus University Press, 2005, ch. 2.
107 Cf. Dao De Jing, #37; Fung, History, 97-102.
108 Cf. Blofeld, Taoism, ch. 3.
109 Cf. Hansen, “Daoism,” chs 4, 9.1.1.
110 Cf. Needham, Science. Vol. 2, 74-83.
111 Cf. Hansen, Theory, ch. 3.
112 Cf. Hansen, Theory, ch. 4.
113 Cf. Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 2; Clarke, Tao, 175-184.
114 This relativism is not to be confounded with an “anything goes”
approach, as westerners might feel to appropriate its insights, but as a
new kind of normativity, namely, that of spontaneity in the flow of
things; cf. Clarke, Tao, 98.
115 Cf. Fung, History, 102-103.
116 Cf. Hansen, Theory, 225; “Daoism,” ch. 3.
117 Cf. Livia Kohn, Taoist Mystical Philosophy: The Scripture of Western
Ascension. Albany: State of New York University Press, 1991, ch. 1;
Hanson, “Daoism,” ch. 3.
118 Cf. Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 6: Clarke, Tao, 80-91.
119 Cf. Livia Kohn, Early Chinese Mysticism: Philosophy and Soteriology in
the Taoist Tradition, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1992, chs. 1-

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


2; Clark, Tao, ch. 7. This implies that we can, in fact, live according to
“nature” if we follow the unknowable Dao, that is, as this mystical Way
implies some kind of experiential metaphysical or even religious
descriptive probabilities; cf. Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 2. In the exemplarity
of the “perfect human being” lies also a certain connection to the notion
that the Manifestation is the mirror of the of apophatic Reality such that
Reality, which is unknowable per se, becomes accessible in this mirror at
least as the way of life implied in this knowledge, but not besides their
revelation; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #30; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #5;
Questions, #27. We might even find a resonance here to the fact that to
reach this point of perfection is a rare possibility so far so that later
elevations and divinizations of certain masters, but at least of Laozi, seem
to demonstrate that such a possibility is by no means just a bottom up
achievement, but might rather be the expression of grace from above, of
divine embodiment.
120 Cf. Clark, Tao, ch. 8. In a more radical interpretation, this relativism
equates with a pluralism that is (metaphysically) presupposing skepticism
as to the ability to gain any insight into the nature of things; cf. Hansen,
“Daoism,” ch. 2.
121 Cf. Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 9.1.1; Clarke, Tao, 101.
122 Cf. Chan, “Laozi,” ch. 6; Hansen, “Daoism,” 9.1.2; Clarke, Tao, 90-103.
This “virtuosity” is like learning to carve wood along its grain, rather than
against it, learning the natural way; cf. Watts, Tao, xvii.
123 While the ideal of the Daoist sage is, therefore, the withdrawal from
society into nature, this does not mean that Daoism was apolitical; rather
it furthered resistance against the feudal society, and the creation of
counter-societies of equality, based on agriculture, and generally with a
pacifist orientation; cf. Clarke, Tao, 103-111; Robinet, Taoism, 27;
Needham, Science. Vol. 2, 86-132.
124 Cf. Hansen, Theory, 212-213; Hansen, “Daoism,” chs. 3.3, 4, 8, 9.4, 9.5.
125 Cf. Hans-Georg Moeller. The Philosophy of the Daodejing, New York:
Columbia University Press, 2006, ch. 5. Situating the Dao De Jing
primarily as a political philosophy in the context of the warring state
period, Moeller speaks of the establishment of peace by the method of
“dehumanization” (76).
126 Cf. Chan, “Laozi,” ch. 7.
127Dao De Jing, #1; transl. by Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 4.
128 This does, however, not exclude political quarrels for supremacy of
respective groups and religious “inclusion” of the other parties; cf.
Clarke, Tao, 22-28. While exclusivism is especially haunting Abrahamic
traditions, the possibility of one person in relation to different aspects of
their life to embrace all three traditions, respectively, shows the

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


fundamental different approach to religious identity in the Chinese
context.
129 Cf. Grigg, Tao, passim; Joseph Bracken, The Divine Matrix: Creativity as
a Link between East and West. New York: Orbis Books, 1995, 133-135.
130 Compassion (sanbao) is one of the three root virtues in Daoist living, one
of the “Three Treasures,” first appearing in the Dao De Jing, #67; cf. Lin
Yutang, The Wisdom of Laotse, Random House, 1948, 292; Masao Abe,
“Kenotic God and Dynamic Sunyata,” in John B. Cobb and Christopher
Ives, eds.,  The Emptying God: A Buddhist- Jewish-Christian
Conversation. Edited by, 3-68. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1990, 3-67.
Cf. Kohn, Mysticism, ch. 6; Hansen, “Daoism,” ch. 8.
131 Cf., Antonio Cua, “Opposites as complements: reflections on the
significance of Tao,” in Philosophy East and West, 31:2 (1981): 123–40;
Hansen, “Daoism,” chs. 4, 9.2.
132 Cf. Ellen Marie Chen, “Nothingness and the mother principle in early Chinese
Taoism,” in International Philosophical Quarterly 9 (1969): 391–405.
133 The identification of ultimate reality with “nothingness” is based on the
term wuji, which is itself a term of ultimate reality. It appears for the
first time in the Dao De Jing, #28 and also means the limitless infinite in
the Zhuangzi, ##1, 6, 11, 15; cf. Zhang Dainian and Edmund Ryden, Key
Concepts in Chinese Philosophy. Yale: Yale University Press, 2002, 72. For
the resonances with the “two truths” and Madhyamika cf. Friederike
Assandri, Beyond the Daode Jing: Twofold Mystery in Tang Daoism,
Dunedin, FL: Three Pines Press, 2009; Mark Csikszentmihalyi, “Mysticism
and Apophatic Discourse in the Laozi,” in Mark Csikszentmihalyi and
Philip J. Ivanhoe, eds., Religious and Philosophical Aspects of the Laozi.
Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999, ch. 1.
134 Dao De Jing, #1.
135 For the thesis that Daoism and Buddhism in China were not two
contrasting religions, cf. Henri Maspero, Taoism and Chinese Religions.
Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1981, 412. For the deep
resonances with Zen, cf. Masao Abe, Zen and Western Thought.
Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1985, chs. 2-3.
136 If we think of Daoism as philosophy (dao jia), being internally touched by
the truth of its proposition (correlating it with experience) is to be
expected; cf. Bahá’u’lláh’s praise of philosophers, especially Socrates, in
his Lawh-i Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), 146-147. However, if we view
Daoism as religion (dao jiao) it could be said that it is the Bahá’í
conviction that all religions receive their life from the same apophatic
source of Reality/God (al-haqq) and, hence, are not a dead body of the
past, but alive in the unity of Manifestations with their eternal (time-
relative, but –invariant) effect in the world of becoming and perishing,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


that is, are beyond the boundaries of the religious identities with which
they are identified universally “present.” In this sense, the Bahá’í view of
unity is not the expression of a simple supersessionism, in which all
religions of the past are “overcome,” but one in which they communicate
in an “analogy of faiths” in mutual coinherence and coinhabitation; cf.
Faber, Garden, ch. 8: section 6. Therefore, it is not a mere intellectual
interest that feeds any serious investigation into the diverse relations
from a Bahá’í perspective, but the amazing potential to be able to
spiritually understand and share (irfan) from the inside in the spiritual and
divine power or grace (fayd) in their confluence in the Bahá’í view—“with
the eye of God, ” rather than as an objective dissector. In some
meaningful sense, a Bahá’í could claim to be a believer in these religions,
sharing in their riches, as s/he does not make any difference between them
(in their origin, in their Manifestations); cf. Stephen Lambden,
“Dimensions of Abrahamic and Babi-Bahā’ī  Soteriology: Some Notes on
the Bahā’ī theology of the Salvific and Redemptive role of Bahā'-Allāh,”
2017 @ https://hurqalya.ucmerced.edu/node/3451. This view is, on a
much more tentative basis, current standard understanding of
methodological access to multiple religions in comparative studies; cf.
Keith Ward, Religion and Revelation. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1994,
chs. 1-2; Raymond Panikkar, “What is Comparative Philosophy
Comparing?” in Gerald Larson and Eliot Deutsch, eds., Interpreting
Across Boundaries: New Essays in Comparative Philosophy. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1988, 116-36.
137 Cf. Dao De Jing, #8.
138 D.C. Lau, “The treatment of opposites in Lao-tzu,” in Bulletin of the
Society for Oriental and African Studies 21 (1958): 344–60.
139 Cf. David Hall, “Process and anarchy: a Taoist vision of creativity,” in
Philosophy East and West, 28:3 (1978): 271–85. This is, of course, a
modern perception, taking into account the radical potentials of the ideas
inherent in the ideas even if they have not, at the time of their inception,
been realized in such a radical way.
140 Cf. Chew, Religions, chs. 5-9. For the Bahá’í context, philosophically, all
of these characteristics can be traced back to the Báb and his metaphysical
and spiritual understanding of this cosmos to be released from the Divine
Point (Will, Mind), which is in its own complex way both unity and
diversity, non-opposition and differentiation, creativeness and
receptiveness; cf. Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart: Understanding the
Writings of the Báb. Waterloo, ON: Wilfrid Laurier University Press,
2010, part 2.
141 This is, from a Bahá’í perspective, rather a “natural” assumption, as all
Manifestations and, in extension, all religions in their true core teach the
same truths; cf. Dann May, “The Bahá’í Principle of Religious Unity,” in

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í
Theology. Studies in the Bábi and Bahá’í Religions. LA: Kalimat Press,
1997, 1-36. “Confluence” is also always the recognition of the mutual
coinherence and coinhabitation, the translucency of religions in the new
event of gathering—for Bahá’ís, the new revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. This is
the heart of the Bahá’í conviction of the relativity of religious truth; cf.
Faber, Garden, chs. 1, 9; Juan Cole, “‘I am all the Prophets’: The Poetics
of Pluralism in Bahá’í Texts.” In Poetics Today 14:3 (Fall 1993): 447-76.
142 The most comprehensive comparison between Chinese Religions and the
Bahá’í Faith, that is, mostly of Daoism and Confucianism, which for many
Baha’is may feel more familiar, is still Chew, Religions. And the most
excellent comparison of Bahá’í sensitivities with the Dao De Jing can be
found in Chew, “The Great Tao,” 11-39. For the Islamic philosophical
background of the Bahá’í Faith in relation to Daoism, cf. Toshihiko
Izutsu, Sufism and Taoism: A Comparative Study of Key Philosophical
Concepts. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1984.
143 Cf. Chew, “The Great Tao,” 17-19; Stockman, Bahá’í Faith, 31-35. As to
the apophatic nature of the Godhead and its implications as well as the
breathtaking interference with “its” manifestation as and in the world, cf.
Stephen Lambden, “The Background and Centrality of Apophatic
Theology in Bábi and Bahá’í Scripture,” in Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning
the Sacred: New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles: Kalimat
Press, 1997, 37-78; Moojan Momen, “The God of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Moojan
Momen, ed., The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions: Papers presented
at the Irfan Colloquia. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003, 1-38.
144 Cf. Isuzu, Sufism, part 1/II and part 2/VII. It would be limiting if we
were tempted to reserve this intended “apophatic” Oneness to the
unknowable Godhead (as “formless”) by exclusion of the manifest “God”
(Primal Will) as “formed” or “determined.” Rather, the unity of
unnamable and manifest Dao is a hint to the “divine sphere” of both these
highest realms of divinity, crossing the highest realms of divine
“existence,” symbolically sometimes addressed in Bahá’u’lláh’s and
‘Abdu'l-Bahá’s writings as hahut and lahut; cf. Momen, “God of
Bahá’u’lláh,” 25. And the Primal Will in the writings of the Báb is not
“form” either, but infinite potential to be determined by form, united in
the Primal Point; cf. Saiedi, Gate, 183, 202 (and the whole of chs. 7-8).
145 This “emptiness” is directed against all projections on “it” of categories,
which remain always only our abstractions, not “its” reality. This, among
other things, is also addressed in the Islamic and Bahá’í universe of
discourse by the expression that God alone “exists.” For the implications,
explicated in Bahá’u’lláh’s tablet of Uncompounded Reality, cf.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law –i Basít al-
Haqíqa). Introduction and translation by Moojan Momen: “Bahá’u’lláh’s

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law –i Basít al-Haqíqa) in: Lights of
Irfan 11 (2010): 203-21; Faber, “Bahá’u’lláh,” 53-106.
146 Bahá’í writings follow the maxim that absolute unity excludes all
attributes; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Valleys, 24 (Seven Valleys: Valley of
Knowledge). This “exclusion” also applies to any emphasis on unity over
and against multiplicity. We must learn to “perceive, with an eye purged
from all conflicting elements, the worlds of unity and diversity, of
variation and oneness, of limitation and detachment”; Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan,
160. For the philosophical and theological importance of this insight
against such a simplified emphasis and its unfortunate implications, cf.
Faber, Divine Manifold, part 1.
147Cf. Chew, “The Great Dao,” 19-21. For the differentiation between
exclusive and inclusive unity (ahadiyyah and wahadiyyah, respectively) and
their mutual interference on all levels of existence in the Bahá’í context,
cf. Rhett Diessner, Psyche, ch. 1.
148 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #37.
149 Cf. Chew, “Great Dao,” 21-22. For the motive of creation out of love
and beauty, cf. Abdu’l Bahá, Commentary on the Islamic Tradition “I
Was a Hidden Treasure.” Translation by by Moojan Momen, in Bahá’í
Studies Bulletin, 3:4 (1995): 4-35.
150 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Days, #9; Gleanings, #131.
151 Spontaneity (bada‘) is the essence of creativity, be it of God or of any
creature; cf. Saiedi, Gate, chs.7-8; Idris Samawi Hamid, The Metaphysics
and Cosmology of Process According to Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa’i: Critical
Edition, Translation and Analysis of Observations in Wisdom. Ann
Arbor, MI: UMI, 1998.
152 Cf. Baha'u'llah, Gleanings, #14; Tablet of the Son (Jesus) §9 in Juan R. I.
Cole, “Baha'u'llah's ‘Tablet of the Son [Jesus]’: Translation and
Commentary. Translations of Shaykhi, Babi and Baha'i Texts, 5(2), May
2001 @ http://www.h-net.org/ bahai/trans/vol5/son/bhson.htm; ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing, 2012, #93.
153 Again, the continuity of such religious insights is more than a distancing
statement about some “other” religion, but rather the translucency of
their internal communication in the unity of all religions and their
Manifestations; cf. Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing, 1996, 108.
154 Cf. Phyllis Chew, “Religious Pluralism in Chinese Religion and the Bahá’í
Faith,” in World Order 34:1 (2002): 27-44; Moojan Momen, “Relativism:
A Theological and Cognitive Basis For Bahá’í Ideas,” in Lights of Irfan 12
(2010): 367-97.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


155 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 13.
156 Cf. Momen, “God,” 14.
157 Cf. Momen, “God,” 15-17; Moojan Momen, “Relativism: A Basis For
Bahá’í Metaphysics,” in Moojan Momen, ed., Studies in Honor of the
Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1988, 185-218.
158 Cf. May, “Principle,” 25-27.
159 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #40; Christopher Buck, “Fifty Bahá’í
Principles of Unity: A Paradigm of Social Salvation,” in Bahá’í Studies
Review 18 (2012): 3-44.
160 Cf. Chew, “Great Dao,” 24-33; Chew, Religions, chs. 8-24. Many
resonances cannot be discussed here, but can to a good extent be found in
Chew’s work, such as strategies for peace, education, priority of
agriculture (maybe ecology?), overcoming of prejudices, principles of
living as a sage, striving for perfection (as to be realized at any given
moment and in any given situation), growth of character and insight,
political strategies of non-violence and non-interference (wu wei),
organicity of living and acting, multiplicity of communities, interreligious
relationships, and so on. For mystical insight (irfan) as one of widening
perceptivity, cf. Roland Faber, God as Poet of the World: Exploring
Process Theologies. Louisville: WJK, 2008, §48.
161 Cf. Chew, “Great Dao,” 22-24; Julio Savi, “The Sufi Stages of the Soul in
Bahá’u’lláh’s The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys,” in Moojan Momen,
ed., The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions: Papers presented at the
Irfan Colloquia. Oxford: George Ronald, 2003, 89-106.
162 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet to Jamal-i-Burujirdi (Lawh-i-Jamál-i-Burujirdí).
Translation by Khazeh Fananapazir, in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, 5:1-2
(1991) 4-8 @ http://bahai- library.com/bahaullah_lawh_jamal_burujirdi.
163 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #41; Promulgation, ##71, 105.
164 Cf. Zhihe Wang, Process and Pluralism: Chinese Thought on the Harmony
of Diversity. Frankfurt, GER: ontosverlag, 2013.
165 Cf. Chew, Religions, chs. 5, 7; Faber, “Religion,” 167-182; Roland Faber,
“Process, Progress, Excess: Whitehead and the Peace of Society,” in Łukasz
Lamża and Jakub Dziadkowiec, eds, Recent Advances in the Creation of a
Process-Based Worldview: Human Life in Process. Newcastle upon Tyne:
Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2016, 6-20; Roland Faber, “Becoming
Intermezzo: Eco-Theopoetics After the Anthropic Principle,” in Roland
Faber and Jeremy Fackenthal, eds., Theopoetic Folds: Philosophizing
Multifariousness. New York: Fordham Press, 2013, 212-238.
166 Cf. SWAB #225. This image is the basis for the reflections on the
relativity of religious truth for a future civilization of peace in my
Garden, ch. 2.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


167 While this might sound somehow too anarchic for a Bahá’í understanding
for which the novelty of the current Manifestation is also related to a new
matrix of commandments, one should also not forget that the Kitab-i
Aqdas is not constructed and presented as a casuistic law book, but as a
“choice wine”; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 1993, π4-5. This character challenges
humanity to implement its meanings and ordinances in highly creative
ways by sensing the necessities and predicaments of, and choices we have
in, an interrelated, ecological world—never without the originative
impulse of the individual insight and understanding in any given situation,
but always oriented toward the greater insight and understanding; cf.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitab-i Aqdas.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 1994, 200: “Blessed are those who
meditate upon it [Aqdas]. Blessed are those who ponder its meaning.”
While Confucianism might feel as the more “natural” choice in this
context, as it relates clear social structures, the overturning of traditional
orders is a pressing motive of the novelty of this, and every, new
Manifestation; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #143. This is an area where
more research and imagination will be fruitful. Cf. Roland Faber, God as
Poet, ππ44, 46; Roland Faber, The Becoming of God: Process Theology,
Philosophy and Multireligious Engagement. Portland, OR: Wipf & Stock,
2017, Sphere V.
168 Cf. Faber, God as Poet, §§41-42; Divine Manifold, Intermezzo 1;
Garden, Epilogue (sec. 4).
169 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, ##8, 11; ADJ 35-36.
170 Cf. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, Selections, #225.
171 CF. John Kolstoe, Consultation: A Universal Lamp of Guidance. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1988.
172 This would seem to be part of the serious application of Bahá’u’lláh’s
imperative of the equality of, and non-difference between,
Manifestations; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #24.
173 Cf. Momen, “Bahá’í Approach,” 167-188; “Learning from History,” in
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 2:2 (1989) @ https://bahai-
library.com/momen_learning_from_history.
174 Such complex relationships (between theism and monism) are by no means
external to the philosophical and religious becoming of the Bábi-Bahá’í
religions, as they are fluent in a vast Sufi universe of discourse and their
relationship to eastern traditions of thought and wisdoms, especially
regarding non-dual thinking; cf. Izutsu, Sufism, chs. 2, 4-5; Momen,
“God,” 1-8; Faber, “Bahá’u’lláh,” 53-106.
175 Cf. Kohn, God, part 2.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


176 This “nature” is not controlled by reason or the Logos in an Abrahamic
sense, which again has God as the ultimate point of reference, but also not
in the Stoic sense, which does avoid reference to a transcendent Godhead;
cf. Watts, Tao, 41-42; Longxi Zhang, The Tao and the Logos: Literary
Hermeneutics, East and West. Duke University Press, 1992, 22-34.
177 Here, questions of the status of any law of prophets, their “books,” come
into sharp relieve with the change of any such law from dispensation to
dispensation and even within any dispensation according to the changing
exigencies of the time. In light of the Daoist antinomian ultimate (the
apophatic), we may also recognize more starkly the contrast between two
imperatives: to follow the temporal recognition of a Manifestation and
its commandments, but also to always follow the indefinite
presupposition of non-imitation and independent insight into Truth/Dao.
178 Cf. Chung-yuan Chang and Zhao Xian Batt, Creativity and Taoism: A
Study of Chinese Philosophy, Art and Poetry. London: Julian Press, 1965.
179 This is the reason that process thought can be a means of mediation, not
only as it is acknowledged to present this Chinese “processual” universe in
western language—and as it is also used by Chinese scholars to translate
their thought—but even more so as the very basis of the Bábi-Bahá’í
universe of discourse lies in the process philosophy of Shaykh Ahmad al-
Ahsa’i that directly connects the process thought of the philosophical
Bahá’í background to Chinese categories of feeling and thought; cf.
Alfred North Whitehead, Process and Reality: An Essay in Cosmology. ed.
by D. R. Griffin and D. W. Sherburne. New York: Free Press, 1978, 7, 21;
Hamid, Metaphysics, ch. 4; Faber, Garden, ch. 3.
180 Hence, mutual translation is possible, as especially the work (and the
reception of the work) of Alfred N. Whitehead has demonstrated; cf.
Needham, Science. Vol. 2, passim; David Hall and Roger Ames, Thinking
Through Confucianism. Albany, State University of New York, 1987;
Faber, Divine Manifold, chs. 7-8, 15; God as Poet, §§19, 39; Alfred North
Whitehead, Adventures of Ideas. New York: Free Press, 1967, ch. 20.
181 Cf. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, Promulgation, #79.
182 This linear simplicity is also broken by the metaphoric of the Bahá’í
writings of cyclic becoming (of renewal and phases of revelations and
dispensations), which is not necessarily such that all that the last cycle has
produced—such as trees—are, in the new season, dead and exchanged; this
is also corroborated by the fact that a garden of many flowers is beautiful
not because all of them have become the same flower in a certain time or
area (or dispensation), but because multiplicity itself contributes to the
beauty, and only as long as it is appreciated and respected; cf. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, Questions, #4; Tablets of the Divine Plan. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing, 1991, #14.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


183 Cf. Chew, Religions, 44, 47. Lee Sun Chen, Laozi’s Daodejing.
Bloomington: iUniverse, 2011, xvii-xviii; Albert Cheung, “The Common
Teachings from Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From Material
Civilization to Spiritual Civilization,” in Lights of Irfan 1 (2000): 38.
While emphasis is given to Laozi, here, a full understanding would have to
explicate the role of other sages, such as Zhuangzi and, especially,
Confucius. This is also highlights by the fact that when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
mentions Confucius as an “ethical reformer,” he seems not to suggest that
he was “only” such a reformer, but rather a reformer of profound impact
on the development of human civilization (which would meet the
historical facts), as he is still mentioned among a series in which all other
personages are considered Manifestations; cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Promulgation, #109.
184 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, 155. In other words, it is not enough only to
take recourse to the fact that any revelation comes to a closure (in some
profound sense, even if there may remain mechanisms of renewal) and,
hence, over the time of its further unfolding in the respective religious
community with its own history will have to live from its references
backwards, which inevitably and eventually implies that it will become out
of sync with the new times it might even have helped to instigate; cf.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #41; Questions, #43. We must, instead, try to
seek a framework that allows these “blind spots” of every contingent
limitation of revelation in time and space as created by its recipients—that
is, this fact does not necessarily include the view of the imperfection of
the revelation in itself; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #22—to be
constructively addressed. One of these frameworks is religious pluralism,
as already mentioned in other sections; another one appears in the
foundational principle of the relativity of religious truth, which must be
made to bear on this matter here, as a form of relationality or mutuality,
which, theoretically, allows for the discovery of the other not as alien, but
already as moment of one’s self and vice versa and, practically,
emphasizes the ability to listen and learn; cf. Faber, Becoming of God,
Sphere V.
185 This is part of a wider task, namely, to fulfill ‘Abdu'l-Bahá’s request to
study all religions—Promulgation, #121; Paris Talks, #41—in fairness and
in seeking the garden of truth in them as a means to establish the
rationality of the oneness of religions and by valuing their contributions
to it; an endeavor that has only begun to take hold becoming part of a
sustained effort in Bahá’í consciousness, but has become a general
presupposition of interreligious dialogue today. Compare only to the
works of one of the foremost thinkers of such an intellectual dialogue
over the last decades: Paul Knitter, One Earth, Many Religions: Multifaith
Dialogue and Global Responsibility. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1995;

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


Introducing Theologies of Religions. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 2007;
Without Buddha I Could Not Be a Christian. Oxford: Oneworld, 2009;
and as editor of: The Myth of Religious Superiority: Multifaith
Explorations of Religious Pluralism. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 2015.
186 ‘Abdu'l-Bahá admonishes Bahá’í to grow into this new consciousness that
means nothing less than to love all religions; cf. Selections, #34.
187 Cf. the concept of polyphilic (religious) pluralism: Faber, God as Poet,
Postscript; Divine Manifold, Intermezzo 2; Becoming of God,
Explorations 14-15;  Roland Faber and Catherine Keller, “Polyphilic
Pluralism: Becoming Religious Multiplicities,” in Chris Boesel and Wesley
Ariarajah, eds.,  In Divine Multiplicity: Trinities, Diversities, and the
Nature of Relation. New York: Fordham University Press, 2014, 58-81.
188This is also implied by Shoghi Effendi’s statements on the receptivity of
the Bahá’í universe of other religions, such as this: “The Faith standing
identified with the name of Bahá’u’lláh disclaims any intention to belittle
any of the Prophets gone before Him, to whittle down any of their
teachings, to obscure, however slightly, the radiance of their Revelations,
to oust them from the hearts of their followers, to abrogate the
fundamentals of their doctrines, to discard any of their revealed Books, or
to suppress the legitimate aspirations of their adherents,” in Shoghi
Effendi, Promised Day, 108.
189 Cf. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #40: “In short, it behooves us all to be
lovers of truth. Let us seek her in every season and in every country, being
careful never to attach ourselves to personalities. Let us see the
light wherever it shines, and may we be enabled to recognize the light
of truth no matter where it may arise.”
190 Cf.’Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #126; Selections, #225; Shoghi Effendi,
World Order, sections “Unity in Diversity.”
191 Many more aspects of the whole phenomenon of the religion of Daoism,
of which Laozi and the Dao De Jing are inextricable part, cannot be
brought into conversation here: the practical life of a cultivation of
“becoming human,” the mystical, sexual and alchemical practices, the urge
to realize (physical) immortality, the vast complexity of Daoist scriptures
and history must, of course, also be part of a thorough discussion; cf.
Kohn, Taoism, chs. 2-8; Wong, Taoism, parts 2-3.
192 Cf. Bowers, God, ch. 13.
193 Cf. Chew, Religions, 49. Of course, we can always refer to the universal
revelation in all of nature as foundational basis for such an occurrence
being more than a coincidence; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #125. But this
would miss the point because of the cyclicity of Manifestations revealing
themselves in human history as an inevitable additional (although in its
depth not different) movement for the advance and education of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


humanity; cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, #34; Questions, #39;
Promulgation, #106.
194 Cf. Michael Sours, Without Syllable and Sound: The Worlds Sacred
Scriptures in the Bahá’í Faith. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2000, chs. 1, 9.
195 Cf. Lambden, “Background,” 1; John Hick, An Interpretation of
Religion: Human Responses to the Transcendent. New Haven: Yale
University Press, 2005, chs. 14-16.
196Hornby, Lights, #1694. From a letter written on behalf of the Guardian to
an individual believer, November 10, 1939.
197 Cf. Mirza Tahir Ahmad, Revelation, Rationality and Truth. Tilford: Islam
International Publishing, 1998, 165-170; Linda Davidson and Gitlitz,
Pilgrimage: From the Ganges to Graceland. An Encyclopedia. Santa
Barbara: ABC-CLIO, 2002, 83.
198 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, 22 (Second Bisharat); Fazel, “Dialogue,” 137-152.
199 For preliminary considerations of what, in general, such a framework
could include, cf. Seena Fazel, “Dialogue,” 137-152.
200 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Star of the West 21 (1930): 261.
201 Cf. Peter Smith, An Introduction to the Bahá’í Faith. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2008, 129-131.
202Cf. Momen, “God,” 23-28.
203 Cf. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, Questions, #24; Sours, Syllable, 17-18.
204 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #25.
205 Tentatively, such a view is implied in certain guidance of Shoghi Effendi
when relating to Joseph Smith and Emanuel Swedenborg as religious
teachers sensitive to the revelations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh; cf.
Hornby, Lights, ##1719-1722, 1728.
206 However, as with Swedenborg and Smith, the force field of revelation
could be understood as stretching beyond chronological time and
embracing not only the future, but also the past as mode of its arising.
207 Cf. Wong, Taoism, chs. 1-2.
208 Cf. Smart, Religions, 124; Arthur Write, Buddhism in Chinese History.
Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1959, ch. 1.
209 Cf. Britannica Encyclopedia of World Religions. Chicago: Encyclopedia
Britannica, 2006, 155.
210 Cf. Smart, Religions, 124-128, 13-151; Grigg, Tao, part 1.
211 Cf. Christian von Dehsen, ed., Philosophers and Religious Leaders: An
Encyclopedia of People Who Changed the World. New York: Onyx Press,
1999, 113.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


212 Cf. Rudolf Ritsema and Stephen Karcher, I Ching: The Classical Chinese
Oracle of Change. Shaftesbury: Element, 1994, 12-13.
213 Cf. Chew, Religions, 49-50.
214 Cf. Hornby, Light, #1696.
215 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #87.
216 Cf. Kohn, God, ch. 1.
217 Cf. Kohn, God, 291-293; Bede Bidlack, In Good Company: The Body and
Divinization in Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, SJ and Daoist XiaoYingsou.
Leiden: Brill, 2015, 58-60.
218 Cf. Kohn, God, 78; Bahá’u’lláh, GL, #13. The “book” is the Qur’anic sign
of a High Prophet and is, as such, a divine sign upheld be the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh; cf. Sours, Syllable, ch. 2.
219 Cf. Starr, Dao De Jing, #1.
220 Cf. Kohn, God, 121-129; GWB #28; SAQ #30.
221 One cannot simply counter that Christ was conceived as divine from the
outset. Current exegetical knowledge has confirmed that a divine self-
designation of Jesus, that is, a divine self-consciousness, is not a priori
impossible, but that the becoming-divine of Jesus in the full sense of the
Councils of the fourth and fifth century C.E. has taken that time to be
fully established and settled. That the process regarding Lord Lao took
“longer,” namely, about a five hundred year span to develop a full
understanding of his divinity, hence, cannot simply be viewed as deep a
counter-argument; cf. Bart Ehrman, How Jesus Became God: The
Exaltation of a Jewish Preacher from Galilee. New York: HarperOne,
2014. Nevertheless, the consciousness to be the “Son of Man,” the most
reliable self-identification of Jesus in an exegetical context, speaks for
the extraordinary consciousness of Jesus, yet widely misunderstood even
by his closest followers, only becoming alive by their experience of his
exultation; cf. Hurtado, God, ch. 5; Chrys Caragounis, The Son of Man:
Vision and Interpretation, Eugene, OR: Wipf & Stock, 1986, ch. 4;
Andrew Loke, in The Origins of Divine Christology. Cambridge,
Cambridge University Press, 2017.
222 Much later deification speaks against this assumption; cf. Kohn, God,
passim.
223 Cf. Tan Chung, Himalaya Calling: The Origins of China and India.
Hackensack, NJ: Word Century Publishing, 2015, 71-74.
224 Cf. Livia Kohn, Laughing at the Dao: Debates among Buddhists and
Daoists in Medieval China, Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2009.
In fact, this argument of “immunization” may rather contribute to the
impossibility to accept a new event, such as the Manifestation of
Bahá’u’lláh, in light of the “old” master; cf. Faber, Garden, ch. 9.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


225 Cf. Kohn, God, chs. 1, 5-6.
226 Cf. Horny, Lights, ##1683, 1692-1693, 1696, et alia.
227 In the Persian Bayan, for instance, the Báb writes of “a thousand
thousand Manifestations”; cf. The Báb, Persian Bayan, III:15, in Moojan
Momen, ed., Selections of the Writings of E. G. Browne on the Bábi and
Bahá’í Religions. Oxford: George Ronald, 1987, 348. Cf. also thesis 6.
228 Cf. Louis Komjathy, The Taoist Tradition: An Introduction. London:
Bloomsbury, 2013, ch. 2.
229 Cf. Chan, “Laozi,” ch. 2.
230 Cf. Craig Bartholomew, “Old Testament Wisdom Today,” in David Firth
and Lindsay Wilson, eds., Interpreting Old Testament Wisdom Literature.
Downers Grove, IL: IVP Academic Publishing, 2017, ch. 1; Edward Curtis,
Interpreting the Wisdom Books: An Exegetical Handbook. Grand Rapids,
MI: Kregel Publications, 2017, ch. 1. The collective character of the
Wisdom literature is also significant in our context as it represents
scriptural texts, sometimes accumulated around personages like Job, but
also exhibiting anonymous, but prominently assigned authorship, such as
David and Solomon, while still being considered part of scripture, or, on
other cases, such as the Book of Wisdom, closely connected to it, while
not necessarily being about or transporting revelation by a prophet.
231 Cf. Chen, Tao De Ching, ch. 1.
232 Cf. Hornby, Lights, #1694; Buck, “Identity,” 172-186; Seena Fazel,
“Bahá’í Approaches to Christianity and Islam: Further Thoughts on
Developing an Inter-Religious Dialogue,” in Bahá’í Studies Review 14
(2008): 46-47.
233 The “perfect Shi‘a,” modeled on the “Perfect Man” of Sufism, is present
in the background of the Bábi-Bahá’í religions through the Shaykhi school
for which this belief formed the so-called “Fourth Support”; cf. Moojan
Momen, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam. New Haven: Yale University
Press, 1985, 228.
234 Cf. Guang Xing, The Concept of the Buddha: Its evolution from early Buddhism
to the trikāya theory. New York: Routledge, 2010, ch. 1.
235 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i Iqan: The Book of Certitude. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing, 1974, 107. Additionally, even if the Báb would have
known that Bahá’u’lláh is the awaited Manifestation (man yazhiruhu’lla)—
and there are indications of such a knowledge in the Bábi-Bahá’í writings
as well as some speculations around a physical or spiritual meeting of
both Manifestations—he did not, besides subtle references to words and
phrases related to augmentations of the word bahá, divulge this
knowledge. In a deeper sense, this fact is related to this freedom of a
Manifestation to choose its becoming revealed to the world.

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


236 In a certain sense, any Manifestation is a “hidden” Manifestation, as no
Manifestation just openly appears in divine attire, but always in a
“cloud”; cf. Michael Sours, The Prophesies of Jesus. Oxford: Oneworld,
1993, 114-131. Bahá’u’lláh mentions that the reason for this “hiddenness”
is the freedom of humanity to develop the sense to apprehend and believe
in the Manifestation out of spiritual effort and freedom, instead of
coercion; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #29.
237 Cf. Romans 1:1-4. As in Christian texts, adoption-, exaltation-, divine
mission- (and incarnation-) views appear together from early biblical texts
on, but were harmonized in the later centuries by the two-nature-in-one-
person doctrine, so is the Bahá’í understanding of the eternity and
temporality of a Manifestation harmonized in the teaching of the two
stations and natures or twofold station and nature such that the
appearance of a Manifestation on the cosmic plane exhibits always
essentially both aspects, that is, is never only human, but was always
already divine, pre-eternal, pre-existent, as it were, as s/he is the Self of
God in the Primal Will of which s/he is an appearance, meta-historically
and historically; Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #29; Sours, Station, ch. 4. For
refection of the Ebionite adoption view within a Bahá’í context, cf.
Christopher Buck, “Illuminator vs. Redeemer: Was Ebionite Adam/Christ
Prophetology “Original,” Anti-Pauline, or “Gnostic”? @ https://bahai-
library.com/pdf/b/buck_illuminator_redeemer.pdf.
238 The so-called “messianic secret” in the New Testament is, in fact, a major
player in the gradual revelation of the nature and status of the person and
identity of Jesus, documented throughout the gospels; cf. William Wrede,
The Messianic Secret. trans. by J. C. G. Creig. Cambridge: James Clarke &
Co, 1971. And there are similarities with the gradual unveiling of the
mission of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh; cf. Christopher Buck, Symbol and
Secret: Qur’an Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i Íqán. Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press, 2004, ch. 5. But this would be besides the point in our
context since the “hiddenness” indicated, here, would relate to the
lifetime of a Manifestation before the declaration, for instance, the “lost
years” of Jesus before his baptism.
239 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #27.
240 Cf. Saiedi, Gate, 164; Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle, 111.
241 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #22.
242 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #49. One might think of the transfiguration-
scene in the Gospels (Matthew 17:1-8; Mark 9:2-8; Luke 9:28-36) and the
universal appearance of Krishna in the Bhagavat Gita (ch. 11) compared to
which the humanity of the Manifestation normally and effectively shields
the divine impression in most encounters—resonant with Bahá’u’lláh’s
interpretation of the apocalyptic biblical and primordial Qur’anic image

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


of the “cloud” as veil hindering the recognition of a Manifestation; cf.
Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan, part 1. In fact, most of the efforts of Manifestations
seem to consist in providing ways to lead their surroundings the
perception of their divine inspiration or even origin.
243 This might be related to the biblical kenosis-scheme, found prominently
in the Deutero-Isaiah figure of the Suffering Servant, cf. Isaiah 53, and its
adoption in the Pauline Hymn of Philippians 2:9-11. It should also be
noted that Christian theology has, at times, taken this kenotic appearance
of God in this world in the human figure of Christ as an “incognito”
movement, as witnessed in Søren Kierkegaard, Karl Barth and Emil
Brunner; cf. Bernard Ramm, An Evangelical Christology: Ecumenic and
Historic. Vancouver: Regent College Publishing, 1985, 58-59.
244 Cf. Ehrman, Jesus, chs. 6-7.
245 Cf. May, “Bahá’í Principle,” xx.
246 Cf. Smith, Encyclopedia, 291. Although these religions, or selections
thereof, are sometimes mentioned as affirmed by the Bahá’í writings—cf.
Kenneth Bowers, God Speaks Again: An Introduction to the Bahá’í Faith.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2004, 96—and also to indicate the
“progressiveness” of religions, the writings themselves don’t claim any
exclusivity to them as an exhaustive list.
247 Cf. Hornby, Lights, #1373.
248 Cf. Hornby, Lights, ##1373-1375; Ezekiel 1:26; Lambden, “Word Bahá,”
19-42.
249 In identifying religions, it is not the “religions” that the Bahá’í writings
emphasize, but the Manifestations that engendered religious movements,
who are also not necessarily identical with, or limited to, the later
established and settled forms of self-identifications of these religions with
their founders; cf. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, Questions, #43. Conversely, because of
the complex non-identity of religions with Manifestations (as their
founders) a whole interreligious space of conversations about both
religions and Manifestations become available.
250 In fact, even this list of named Manifestations in the Bahá’í writings is
incomplete Cf. Stockman, Bahá’í Faith, 25-38.
251 Cf. Hornby, Lights, #1373.
252 Cf. The Báb, SWB 105; GWB #87; SAQ #50.
253 Cf. Hornby, Lights, #1373.
254 When Shoghi Effendi states that these are the great religions “of which we
have any definite historical knowledge,” and as we can assume that this is
not meant to limit historical research into what can be known at any
point in the future (from this statement), as Shoghi Effendi explicitly
denies, we could maybe understand this “knowledge” in relation to

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


(limited to the appearance in) the Bahá’í writings, as Shoghi Effendi
encourages historical research, but (in our context) demonstrates restraint
regarding religious statements that would not have a foundation in the
writings themselves; cf. Hornby, Lights, #1374. This seems also to be
indicated with Shoghi Effendi’s references to Sabeanism and Hinduism,
that is, that we cannot know from the writings more about them as we
actually find in them; cf. ibid, ##1692-1694. This same hermeneutical
approach can also be assumed from the statement of Shoghi Effendi, that
“the only reason there is not more mention of the Asiatic Prophets is
because Their names seem to be lost in the mists of ancient history.
Buddha is mentioned, and Zoroaster, in our Scriptures -- both non- Jewish
Prophets or non-Semitic Prophets”; cf. Compilation of Compilations.
Vol. 1. Compiled by Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice. Mona Vale: Baha'i Publications Australia, 1991, 21 (#22).
255 For a differentiated reflection on “progressive revelation” without such
symbolic inaugurations, cf. Stockman, Bahá’í Faith, 35-37, 42-43. The
statement of Bahá’u’lláh that all religions are of divine origin, with some
exceptions, which he thinks to be of human invention, seems also to imply
that not only the mentioned (named) religions are intended, as do similar
statements of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá regarding the love of, and finding truth in, all
religions; cf. GWB #111; PT #41; SWAB #43.
256 Cf. Winfred C. Smith, What is Scripture? Minneapolis, MN: Fortress
Press, 2005.
257 Hornby, Lights, #1375.
258 In his high imamology, the Báb considered the Imams—and by extensions
the Apostles of Christ—as part of a divine pleroma, which always appears
with the Point, the Prophet or the Manifestation, and emanates from this
one Soul; cf. The Báb, Persian Bayan, Exordium and Wahid I, in: Momen,
Selections, 322-325; http://www.h-
net.org/ bahai/trans/bayan/bayan.htm.
259 While Krishna is named a Manifestation in the “canonical” Bahá’í
catalogue, this figure cannot be considered the “founder” of Hinduism.
Also, like Laozi, Krishna is probably a composite figure (thesis 7).
260 Cf. Qur’an 12; cf. Todd Lawson, “Typological Figuration and the
Meaning of ‘Spiritual’: The Qurʾanic Story of Joseph,” in Journal of the
American Oriental Society 132:2 (2012): 221-244; Lawson, “The Bahá’í
Tradition: The Return of Josef and the Peaceable Imagination,” in John
Renard, ed., Fighting Words: Religion, Violence, and the Interpretation
of Sacred Texts. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2011, 135-57.
261 Cf. Qur’an 19:12-15; Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan, 64-65; Epistle, 171.
262 Cf. Juan Cole, “Behold the Man: Baha'u'llah on the Life of Jesus,” in
Journal of the American Academy of Religion, 65:1 (1997): 62; The Báb,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette: IL, Bahá’í Pub.,
2014, 49; Bahá’u’lláh, Days, #44; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 23.
263 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan, 167-168, 212, 254.
264 Bahá’u’lláh considers the hidden twelfth Imam, the personification of
which is understood to be the Báb, as even more than all preceding
prophets; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Iqan, 243-244.
265 Stephen Lambden has pointed to passages—passages in which holy figures,
such as the patriarch/prophet Josef, Son of Jacob (Israel), are named
Manifestations (mazhar-i ilahi)—in the Bahá’í writings; cf. Lambden, Some
Aspects of Isrā'īliyyāt and the Emergence of the Bābī-Bahā'ī
Interpretation of the Bible. Dissertation: Newcastle University, 2002, 51
266 Cf. Saiedi, Gate, 168.
267 Cf. Henry Corbin, Spiritual Body and Celestial Faith: From Mazdean Iran
to Shi‘ite Iran. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1977, 51-73.
Already with the Persian poet Jalal ad-Din Rumi and several Shi‘ite
“extremists,” like Ismaelis and Nusayris, Fatimah appears as divine
creatrix; cf. Corbin, Alone, 160.
268 Cf. Dunn, Christology, chs. 5-7.
269 Cf. Sours, Syllable, ch. 2; Station, ch. 7; Stephen Lambden, “The Sinaitic
Mysteries: Notes on Moses/Sinai Motifs in Bábi and Bahá’í Scripture,” in
Moojan Momen, ed., Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Los
Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1988, 65-184; “Word Bahá,” 19-42.
270 Cf. Hurtado, God, ch. 2.
271 Cf. Ben Witherington, Jesus the Sage: The Pilgrimage of Wisdom.
Minneapolis, MN: Fortress Press, 1994, ch. 8.
272 Cf. GWB #34; TB #11; SDC 97, #147;
273 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Law-i Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets, ch. 9;
Prayers, ##86, 93;
274 Cf. Witherington, Jesus, ch. 2; cf. Curtis, Wisdom Literature, ch. 4.
275 Cf. John 1:1-18; Witherington, Jesus, 368-380.
276 Cf. Daniel 1:20; 2:13; Jacques Doukhan, Secrets of Daniel: Wisdom and
Dreams of a Jewish Prince in Exile. Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 2000, 6-12.
The influence of the Book of Daniel on the Bahá’í Writings is not only
attested by their application of its apocalyptic mathematics regarding the
coming of the Son of Man/Messianic King from Jewish and Christian
writings in ‘Abdu'l-Bahá’s exegesis of it — cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions,
##10, 13 — but by figuring as the basis for Bahá’u’lláh’s exegesis of the
Olivet Discourse of Mathew 24, which underlies the whole first part of
the important Kitab-i Iqan; cf. Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization:
Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bethesda, MD:

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


University Press of Maryland, 2000, chs. 4-5; Sours, Prophesies, passim. In
fact, the Kitab-i Iqan is wedded to the Book of Daniel insofar as, in
Shoghi Effendi’s interpretation, the Iqan is nothing less than the
revelation in which the apocalyptic seals of the Book of Daniel (Daniel
12:8) was broken; cf. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 139.
277Cf. Gen 5:22; Charles Gieschen, Angelomorphic Christology: Antecedents
and Early Evidence. Leiden, NL: Brill, 1998, 156-158.
278 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets, 148n1;
Keven Brown, “Hermes Trismegistos and Apollonius of Tyana in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,” in Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives in Bahá’í Theology. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997,
153-188.
279 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, ##112, 121.
280 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #9; Hornby, Lights, #1696.
281Cf. Guy Beck, ed., Alternative Krishnas: Regional and Vernacular
Variations on a Hindu Deity. Albany: State of New York University Press,
2005, ch. 1.
282 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, #22; Lambden, Aspects, 42-45.
283 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #79.
284 Cf. Lambden, Aspects, 40: for instance, the term “the Adam of Reality.”
285 While it may have been the case that Docetism, which wanted to rescue
the divine from the evil creation and Christ from the defilement of bodily
existence, lived on in the Qur’anic mentioning, or at least, post-Qur’anic
interpretation, of the cross, seemingly denying the historicity of the death
of Jesus on the cross (Qur’an 4:147), Bahá’u’lláh always accepted this
historicity and, hence, was opposed to such a dualistic rendering of the
divinity of Manifestations in relation to their historical human existence,
but without taking away from their universal spiritual nature representing
the Primal Will or Mind; cf. Todd Lawson, The Crucifixion and the
Qur’an: A Study in the History of Muslim Thought. Oxford: Oneworld,
2009; Cole, “Behold the Man,” 60-64.
286 The question, here, is not about the exact form of such an emanation—
differentiating between incarnation or appearance, manifestation or
revelation, theophany or epiphany—but that the intention of the
emanation of the Primal Reality from the unmanifest Godhead Beyond is
to manifest its Self and realize the infinity of divine attributes that links
the transcendent and immanent divine in such way that they are one and,
hence, that the world of creation with its impermanence and physicality is
not an evil or unnecessary or irrelevant side effect of eternity, but the
explication of the whole process of revelation and emanation—something

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


‘Abdu’l-Bahá has fathomed with the cycle or arc of decent and ascent; cf.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, ##53-54; Saied, Logos, ch. 2.
287 Cf. Juan Cole, “‘I am all the Prophets’: The Poetics of Pluralism in Bahá’í
Texts,” in Poetics Today 14:3 (1993): 447-76. Hence, ‘Abdu'l-Bahá’s often
repeated emphasis of the spiritual reality of manifestations and all
prophetic figures; cf. SAQ #23. The same could be said in this context of
other religious founders and spiritual figures throughout history—one
might think of Guru Nanak and Sikhism, Mahavira and Jainism—namely
that they are inspired by the Holy Spirit, who/that makes them what they
are in their spiritual station; cf. Stockman, Bahá’í Faith, 38.
288 Cf. Sours, Syllable, chs. 1-2; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #87. The
symbolic meaning is the true meaning, the spiritual reality, not an
“allegorical spiritualization” of reality that is understood to be material in
nature; cf. Corbin, Alone, 105-135.
289 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #4; Julio Savi, Towards the Summit of
Reality: An Introduction to the Study of Baha'u'llah's Seven Valleys and
Four Valley. Oxford: George Ronald, 2008, 37-38.
290 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #79.
291 The “Sabians” of Harran seem to have used this corpus as scriptural
evidence for being “people of the book” under Islamic rule.
“Apocalyptic” as a qualification does not necessarily indicate
precognition of a divinely determined future, but also includes literatures
that claim to be able to “see” the higher spiritual realms or even travel in
them to reveal its secrets.
292 Cf. the 1st Book of Enoch; Chrys Caragounis, The Son of Man: Vision and
Interpretation. Eugene, OR: Wipf & Stock, 83-119.
293 Cf. Brown, “Hermes Trismegistos,” 153-188.
294 Cf. Gilles Quispel, Gnostica, Judaica, Catholica: Colleced Esseys of Gilles
Quispel. ed. by Johannes van Oort. Leiden, NL: Brill, 2008; 19-21, 33,
155, 593, et alia.
295 Cf. Kitty Ferguson, Pythagoras: His Lives and the Legacy of a Rational
Universe. London: Icon Books, 2010, 186.
296 Cf. Juan Cole, “Problems of Chronology in Baha'u'llah's Tablet of
Wisdom,” in World Order 13:3 (1979):24-39.
297 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i Hikmat, in Tablets, 146.
298 Cf. ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, Promulgation, #3; Sours, Station, ch. 6. In order not to
misunderstand this in a triumphalist way, which easily can happen and, in
fact, has happen with the emphasis on the exclusivity of “lastness” in
other dispensations, Shoghi Effendi attributes the greatness of Bahá’u’lláh
not to the inherent difference in station between him and other

Laozi:  A Lost Prophet?


Manifestations, but to the time in which a Manifestation happens and its
potentials to be harvested; cf. Fazel, “Pluralism,” 42- 43.
299 As a prophet who brought a book, the Qur’anic John the Baptizer would
have to be considered as a major prophet; in the Bahá’í writings however,
he appears as a minor prophet preparing the way for a mayor prophet,
Jesus; cf. Cole, “Behold the Man,” 52; yet compare with Lambden,
Aspects, 55, 58-60.
300 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Uncompounded Reality, in Momen, 203-21.
301 Cf. Peter Smith, The Babi and Baha’i Religions: From Messianic Shi`ism to
a World Religion. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008, 24-26.
302 Cf. The Báb, Persian Bayan, Wahid III:3, in Momen, Selections, 339-340.
303 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Days, #42 (207), #44 (216-217).
304 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Days, #6 (27); Gleanings, #14. In most ancient religions,
the inhaling and exhaling process and symbolism appears in one way or
another as that of the Spirit-breath that binds the creation and
annihilation process of the cosmos together into one movement of
cyclical renewal. It stands behind the eastern (Hindu) and western (Stoic)
expressions of the world conflagration, but, reduced to one linear
process, is also behind the biblical creation Spirit (ruah), universally
appearing in the pre-creation verse of the Book of Genesis (Genesis 1:2)
and specifically as breath of life blown from the nostrils of God into the
bodies of living beings (Genesis 2:7, 7:22; Job 27:3), and its eschatological
resumption into God, specifically by taking back the spirit of life of
individual beings (Psalm 104:9; Ecclesiastes 12:7) and universally in the
conflagration of the world in the Psalms (Psalm 18:8) and at or after the
universal judgment in the Book of Revelation (20:4). In some meditation
technics, the movement of breathing reappears as the most basic bodily
expression of the harmonization of individual and cosmic existence. Yet,
it can also become the expression of the ultimate metaphysical movement
of unification and differentiation, addressing the ancient problem of the
one and the many; cf. Faber, God as Poet, §40.
305 Cf. The Báb, Persian Bayan, Wahid II, in Momen, Selections, 325-338.
306 It is a standard argument of Bahá’u’lláh, appearing in diverse tablets,
that, after answering questions regarding other religions and
Manifestations, the reference to them remains only relevant if the seeker
embraces the new Manifestation by the appearance of which they become
irrelevant if they cannot be related to this novelty in which they are also
embraced; cf. Juan Cole, “Bahá’u’lláh on Hinduism and Zoroastrianism:
The Tablet to Mirza Abu’l-Fadl Concerning the Questions of Manakji
Limji Hataria,” @ http://bahaistudies.net/hindu_zoro.html.
307 This was a trend probably set in motion by Fritjof Capra, The Tao of
Physics. Boston: Shambala, 1975.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


308 Cf. Whitehead, Process, 3-18; Faber, Becoming of God, Sphere 2; God as
Poet, part 1.
309 Cf. Bonnie J. Taylor, One Reality: The Harmony of Science and Religion.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2013, ch. 1. This is also a major concern
of Bahá’í thought as reflected in many scriptural passages, elevating this
resonance to a foundational Bahá’í principle; cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i
Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets, #9; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks,
#44. The independent investigation of truth, although hitherto not as
defined in the Bahá’í universe of discourse as a condition of the
cooperation between science and religion, is, in fact, the effort of
philosophy; cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, PT, #41.
310 Alfred North Whitehead, Religion in the Making. New York: Fordham
University Press, 1996, 141.
311 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #72; Questions, #20.
312 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, ##5, 69.
313 Cf. Taylor, One Reality, ch. 4.
314 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, ##36, 55.
315 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, #15.
316 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing, 2002,
Persian, #29; Gleanings, ##5, 90, 153; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, #21;
Promulgation, #4.
317 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation, #58.
318 Cf. SAQ #47; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Taylor, One Reality, 88-91; PUP #79.
319 Cf. David Palmer and Xun Liu, eds., Daoism in the Twentieth Century:
Between Eternity and Modernity, Berkeley: University of California Press,
2011; and David Palmer and Elijah Siegler, Dream Trippers: Global
Daoism and the Predicament of Modern Spirituality. Chicago: University
Press of Chicago, 2017.
320 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, ##1, 47, 69.
321 Cf. Faber, “Becoming Intermezzo,” 212-238; Divine Manifold, ch. 14.
322 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Days, #10; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Questions, #91.
323 Cf. Faber, Garden, chs. 7-9.

Freedom and the Baha’i Writings
Ian Kluge
Part 1: Introduction
Few subjects in the post-Enlightenment world are as vociferously
— and even violently — contested as freedom. Appeals to freedom
permeate modern societies in everything from banal advertisements
for personal care products, automobiles and financial services to far-
reaching and passionate public debates about the scope of free speech
and personal autonomy; freedom of religion; freedom and the
community; economic freedom and the existence of human free will.
Indeed the enormous importance of freedom can be seen in the
history of the twentieth century insofar as freedom and antagonistic
concepts of freedom were one of the underlying issues in four major
conflicts. World War II (1939–1945), and the subsequent Cold War
(1945–1989) were concerned with rival theories of freedom as
espoused by Fascism, Communism and democratic capitalism. In the
Korean War (June, 1950–July 1953) the Communist and democratic
capitalist visions of freedom clashed again, this time without a clear
victory for either side and with the establishment of two rival states
representing the competing theories of freedom.1 Among other
things, that these conflicts show is that differing concepts of
freedom are able to incite conflicts that involve countless millions of
humans. Following WWII, various visions of national, political and
social freedom inspired various — often violent — struggles of
national decolonization in former African and Asian territories.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Depending on what one counts as a national war of liberation, these
wars lasted into the 1960s and even 1970s early 1990s.2
However, struggles for freedom have not just taken place between
different countries but also between them. The American Civil Rights
Movement and the Anti-Apartheid movement in South Africa are
prominent examples of internal struggles for freedom that have led
to widespread change within countries. By contrast, the Tiananmen
Uprising in China in 1989 is an internal liberation struggle that — at
least in the short term — failed. The defense of individual agency and
autonomy against encroachments by established authorities were
central issues. Starting in the 1960s and continuing until the present,
the counter-culture movement made enormous changes in American
and European culture. It sought greater freedom for alternative
individual lifestyles and approaches to social problems. Later, the
feminist movement demanded — and still demands — more freedom
for women, and the LGBTQ movement actively agitates for the
freedom to express alternative sexualities. In the academic world,
postmodern philosophy struggles for freedom against the alleged
tyranny and “terrorism”3 of objectivity4 and objective truth, even in
the sciences as well as against the concept of universal and naturally
pre-determined human nature. It rejects the ‘prison’ of the
established meaning of any text, be it literary or scientific. Finally,
amidst this turmoil, we have the ever-present offers of spiritual
freedom from religions and the Manifestations of God Who seek to
“awaken [mankind’s] spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] and encourage
the actualization of our divinely given potentials.
While appeals to freedom permeate contemporary societies, there
are considerable differences and irresolvable conflicts about what
‘freedom’ means. These differences are clearly evident in the work of
philosophers such as Rousseau who taught that society by its very
nature oppressed the individuals; on Kant’s theory of the categorical
imperative which alone guarantees freedom; Marx who, in effect,
denied free will because the individual is completely a product of the
economic forces in society and Sartre, according to whom humans are
absolutely free — and responsible — for creating themselves. Despite
these (and many other) theories of freedom, very little has been done
to bring intellectual order to this wealth of viewpoints. The notable
exception is Mortimer Adler’s exhaustive two volume study The Idea

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
of Freedom, published in 1958, which remains the only in-depth
systematic analysis and comparative study of concepts of freedom in
the Western philosophical tradition.5 Adler’s work is especially useful
to studying freedom because he is not intent on proving the
superiority of any particular theory but rather to classify, compare,
contrast and clarify the views of freedom held by philosophers from
Aristotle to Bertrand Russell. This makes Adler’s work an essential
resource in assessing the concepts of freedom as presented in the
Writings.
Rather than engage in conflicts about the meaning of freedom, we
shall outline the requisite conditions required for a truly free act. We
shall begin with an example. Driving home one dark and rainy night,
we suffer a sudden spasm in the left arm. The spasm spins the wheel
to the right and in so doing, we avoid a man who has just tripped and
fallen in front of our car. In our view, this was not an act of free will
because it fails to meet the six conditions of personal freedom.
First, consciousness. Freedom excludes automatic responses over
which we have no conscious control. In addition, freedom requires
conscious choice among alternatives.
Second, a free act requires intent, i.e. we must intend to do
something and make a conscious choice. In other words, free will
requires a conscious purpose. There is no intent in an arm spasm or
any other automatic human process.
Third, conscious choice requires an agent who makes the choice
and whose decision is not pre-determined by the law of cause and
effect, or any other physical law. Without such an agent whatever is
done will be result of causality, and, therefore, is not free.
Fourth, free will requires knowledge and judgment. A choice of
two unknown alternatives is not a choice but a guess since there is no
place or evaluation and no place for judgment. Without knowledge
and judgment, action is reduced to stimulus-response events.
Fifth, is will or volition. Without at least the capacity and
willingness to act, free will is reduced to stasis. Nothing gets done.
This condition requires both a capacity to act and the opportunity to
do so.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Sixth, the ability to transcend the law of cause and effect as well
as other natural laws and to act according to moral, intellectual and
spiritual criteria instead of being swept along by physical processes.
This ability may also the ability to abstract from concrete natural
entities. For example, we abstract universal concepts such as
“duckness” from observing dozens of ducks. This make mankind an
exceptional case in nature.
We must hasten to point out that the transcendence of nature has
two aspects: (1) the psychological and spiritual activities of
abstraction and understanding and (2) the application of abstraction
and understanding to overcome nature of make use of it to our
advantage. The transcendence of nature does not mean that we can
physically overcome all of nature. Because “Man is, in reality, a
spiritual being “whose [attributes] belong to all men alike” [PT 73]
they have the psychological capacity to transcend nature by virtue of
their special gifts that allow them to “guide, control and overcome
nature” [PT 127].
As we shall see below, neither materialism nor compatibilism allow
for free will and freedom. If all things — including humans — are
material and ruled by universal causal law, then they cannot meet the
foregoing criteria and, consequently, there is no place for free will.
No natural phenomena we encounter can meet any of the foregoing
seven conditions of free will and freedom.
This study of the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom reaches three
general conclusions.
First, the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom is rational, coherent and
comprehensive. It is rational because its teachings are developed
according to the principles of reasoning, specifically, the law of non-
contradiction.6 It is coherent because the principles and teachings are
interdependent and mutually supportive. Every teaching builds on its
predecessor and sets the stage for its successor. We might also say
that that each subsequent deduction is potentially present in its
predecessor. Furthermore, the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom is also
coherent because its teachings are all based on certain metaphysical
principles that ensure the underlying unity of its philosophy of
freedom. This unity will become more apparent throughout our
study. Finally, the Bahá’í Writings cover the broad spectrum of issues

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
about freedom such as the metaphysical basis of free will; the body
and free will; consciousness, intentionality and freedom; freedom and
responsibility; personal freedoms vis-à-vis community rights;
legitimate limitations on personal freedom; positive and negative
liberty 7; circumstantial, natural and acquired freedom8; and free will
and the after-life. This comprehensiveness should encourage Bahá’ís
to promulgate the divine teachings about freedom by engaging in
constructive dialogue with other viewpoints.
Second, the Bahá’í Writings understand freedom as spiritual,
teleological and instrumental in nature. Freedom is one of mankind’s
divinely given spiritual capacities and achieves its highest expression
in advancing our spiritual development. It is also teleological, i.e. it
exists for a purpose, namely, the actualization of mankind’s physical,
intellectual and spiritual potentials. Such progress is, after all, the
purpose of all the Manifestations of God. Furthermore, in contrast
to many other philosophies of freedom, the Bahá’í Writings teach
that while freedom is a necessary instrument for the achievement of
greater spiritual ends, it is necessary but not sufficient for human
progress. Freedom is not an absolute end in itself and by itself does
not lead to progress that is appropriate to human nature. The
Manifestations are must provide the needed spiritual guidance.
Finally, the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom includes — and possibly
originates — at least two original arguments about the basis of free
will. These arguments, while somewhat technical, are important
because they not only solve two long-standing scientific and
philosophical problems but, more important, they further show the
untenability of materialist and determinist positions on free will. The
first of these provides a new solution to the mind-body problem
whereas the second demonstrates the impossibility of mind-brain
identity theory there by showing the necessity of invoking non-
physical entities to explain certain brain functions.
Part 2: The Theoretical Foundations
In order to understand, evaluate and appreciate the philosophy of
freedom it is necessary to ensure at least some familiarity with the
complexity of the subject as well as with the three basic foundational
choices all theories of freedom must make either implicitly or

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
explicitly. These foundations determine the answers to many of the
essential questions about freedom. We can adopt the world-view of
materialism or its sub-type compatibilism or we can accept
transcendentalism. Materialism or physicalism asserts that reality is
entirely physical and that non-physical entities or processes do not
and cannot exist. It also claims that all natural processes can be
explained by the law of cause and effect. Compatibilism accepts
materialism but contends that free will and causality does not deny
freedom. Transcendentalism9 claims that reality is not entirely
physical — or in some cases is not physical at all — and that the law of
cause and effect does apply to non-material things. The Bahá’í
Writings represent a form of transcendentalism.
One of the best ways to comprehend the complexity of free will
and freedom is to examine one of the simplest and most commonly
assumed beliefs about freedom as stated by Bertrand Russell:
“freedom in general may be defined as the absence of obstacles to the
realization of desires.”10 In short, freedom is getting our way or self-
determination without external or internal interference. Straight
forward appearances notwithstanding, careful analysis reveals the
highly problematical of this definition. Does this apply to all desires?
Are obstacles necessarily always denials of freedom? Contrary to
Russell, the Bahá’í Writings point out that some obstacles and the
tests needed to overcome them are not denials of freedom but rather
gateways to a new and higher freedom. How does Russell’s definition
allow us to distinguish worthwhile from worthless freedoms? If so,
what are we to make of conscience or the frustration of the desire to
beat up an extremely noisy neighbor? Or, what counts as an
‘obstacle’? Is an internal attack of conscience about an intended act
an ‘obstacle’? Are all freedoms appropriate for humans? Few people
would assert that the 4th century BCE Greek Cynic philosophers
Hipparchia and her husband Crates extend human freedom by living
publically like dogs even in their intimacies. John Stuart Mill made
the point of appropriate freedoms by stating, “It is better to be a
human being dissatisfied than a pig satisfied; better to be Socrates
dissatisfied than a fool satisfied.”11 Already at this point it is clear
that Russell’s definition is not as straight-forward as it appears and
reveals hidden depths.

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
Russell’s views on freedom implicitly assume that the scientific
materialist world-view is true. Thus, answers to questions of freedom
do not have to consider factors such as the existence of the soul or an
afterlife in which we must take responsibility for our free acts.
Neither does it require a choice between material and spiritual
advantage nor balancing positive and negative liberty12 nor freedom
for the community.
The foregoing issues show that these and other questions about
freedom can only be answered in the context of a theory of human
nature. However, the philosophy of human nature is embedded in
metaphysics which is the study of the nature and structure of reality
as a whole. As we shall observe in what follows, a significant number
of answers about freedom have their roots in metaphysical
viewpoints. In other words, all philosophies of human nature and
freedom are implicitly or explicitly based on a fundamental
metaphysical choice about the nature of reality. Either we adhere to
some form of materialism or to some form of non-materialism.
Materialism or physicalism as it is now called “is the thesis that
everything is physical, or as contemporary philosophers sometimes
put it, that everything supervenes on the physical. The thesis is
usually intended as a metaphysical thesis.”13 It can assume a variety of
forms but the common denominator is that reality is exclusively
physical and has no non-physical aspects. All real things can be sensed
directly or indirectly by the physical senses or their technological
extensions of our senses. All physical things or processes are subject
to
measuring,
quantifying
(results)
experimenting,
objective
verification and prediction. Any seeming exceptions such as
thoughts,
feelings,
consciousness,
subjective
experiences
and
intentions can be reduced to and explained by purely physical
explanations. Therefore, souls, spirits, Platonic forms, selves, minds,
purposes, intrinsic values, consciousness or deities do not and cannot
exist. Matter and material processes cannot give rise to non-material
entities such as mind, soul and self, i.e. matter has no potential for
the emergence of non-material entities. Claims that matter has such
potentials are, in effect, no longer consistently materialist because
they accept the existence of at least some non-material entities or
processes. For materialism, any entity or process that appears ‘ideal’

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
is either an “illusion”14 or reducible to a physical process by the
scientific method.15
According to materialism there is no free will; it is an illusion.16
This is because everything in the universe is strictly subject to the law
of cause and effect.17 In other words, every action — whether external
or internal to us — has a necessary pre-determined and pre-
determining cause that can be traced (at least in theory) back to the
Big Bang. Hence this view is known as “determinism.” There are no
uncaused events or events that somehow cause themselves, i.e. no
spontaneous events. All events and their attributes can be traced to
pre-existing causes18 which means that no cause can spontaneously,
i.e. without a pre-existing cause arise by itself and start a new causal
chain. Each event necessarily has an antecedent cause determines its
nature which in turn, determines its successor. Consequently, there is
no place for free will because every decision and action is the result
of an indeterminably long chain of cause and effect that pre-
determines what will happen. Philosopher Richard Taylor points out
that
it is a consequence of determinism that these [my inner
mental, emotional or volitional state] whatever they are at
any time, can never be other than what they are. Every chain
of causes and effects . . . is infinite.19
In other words, regardless of how far back we go, there is no
starting point that is free from the pre-determining law of cause and
effect. This means that nature — including human nature — has no
agency, i.e. no independent power to initiate or terminate action.
Everything, including human thought, decisions and acts, is what it is
because the laws of causality extend infinitely — or to the Big Bang —
and cannot be suspended or eliminated. If either happened, we would
be faced with a miracle.20Without a belief in miracles, i.e. a
suspension or elimination of causality human beings cannot act
differently than they do. In a sense, we are organic robots or zombies
who are simply particular expressions of the laws of physics.
The foregoing outline of materialism makes it clear that it cannot
even meet the most basic requirements of free will and freedom. As
shown above, free will requires consciousness, an agent to make a
choice; intention; knowledge of the alternatives; volition or the desire

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
to carry out an action; and judgment to know the potential
consequences; the ability to transcend causality i.e. spirituality. None
of these attributes are connected with matter or physical processes in
any way or can be deduced from them. We shall see more about this
below.
The practical consequences of the materialist and scientific
metaphysics are startling. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
“sharing is a personally chosen righteous act: that is, the rich should
extend assistance to the poor . . . but of their own free will, and not
because the poor have gained this end by force” [SWAB 115, emphasis
added]. In effect, the materialist view asserts that my decision to buy
a homeless man a meal has already been pre-determined at a nano-
second after the Big Bang. It is only a matter of the causal chain from
then to the moment of my offer to play itself out. All the events
leading from the initial explosion to my paying for his meal made
‘my’ action inevitable. There is no such thing as free will, my act
really has no intrinsic and objective value since I am no more than a
robot, a zombie or a puppet. In short, with materialism, ethics
evaporates.
To salvage free will (and value and virtue) from scientific
materialism and determinism, some thinkers adopt a position known
as ‘compatibilism’ or “soft determinism”21 which claims that
materialism and causal determinism are compatible with freewill.
Compatibilism agrees with the scientific view that causality operates
everywhere — including our brains. Our “inner causation” based on
our “beliefs and desires give us the in-put — and thereby, at least a
share — in decision making. According to compatibilists, mankind
still has freedom because
human actions can be caused but still free. Free actions are
not uncaused actions but are actions that are closely linked
with an agent’s inner causation through one’s own beliefs and
desires . . . For freedom is in contrast with coercion or
constraint rather than with having a cause. That my action is
causally constrained does not entail that I am constrained to
do it [and] that I am not causally free.22
Compatibilism argues that causes, unlike coercion and constraint, are
not intrinsically opposed to freedom. From this it follows that in

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
some way, causality can lead to free actions because the causal
process based on our beliefs and ideas can actively intervene and
‘make our personal mark’ on the causal process unfolding within us.
There are at least three major problems with this attempt to save
free will in the scientific world-view. First, an idea or belief is either
a part of a pre-existing causal chain or it is a spontaneous, i.e.
uncaused event. Scientific materialism denies the spontaneous causes
since every event comes from a pre-existing cause; there are no
uncaused events. In other words, beliefs are part of an ‘infinite’
causal chain like all other things and processes, and, consequently,
there is no reason to believe that our ideas are any different. The fact
that they pass through our brains does not endow them with the six
conditions for free will: consciousness; intent; an agent; knowledge
and judgment; will or volition; and the ability to transcend cause and
effect. In other words, the causal chain associated with beliefs and
ideas is not really ‘ours.’
Second, if humans are really to have free will there must be a
suspension of the necessary causal laws so that a free act that is not
pre-determined by a previous cause can come into existence and
influence or direct the whole process. This extremely anomalous
concept of causality, is impossible to harmonize with scientific
theory and practice — and for good reason. The implications can be
startling. For example, if we accept this non-necessary concept of
causality, it will be difficult to deny the possibility of miracles which
are precisely such momentary suspensions of causal laws. Such
violations of natural law were the core of Hume’s argument against
miracles.23
The third problem was already noted by Kant, who wrote that
compatibilism “wretched subterfuge” and “petty word-jugglery”24 His
point is that replacing ‘causality’ with ‘coercion’ or constraint’
achieves nothing because, in effect, they all mean the same —
compulsion. Saying that causality allows freedom but that coercion
does not explain why and how causality is able to ‘leave room’ for
spontaneous. i.e. undetermined events.
Over the last three decades, a new form of compatibilism —
‘quantum compatibilism’ — has developed25 to solve the problem of
spontaneous cause events. Its basic argument is that the strict laws of

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
cause and effect apply to individuals and groups at the macroscopic,
i.e. the daily levels of reality and, thereby, forbid freedom of the will.
However, at the sub-atomic, i.e. quantum realm this is not the case.
At the sub-atomic level, scientists can only describe the probability
of a particle behaving ion a certain way at a particular time but they
cannot make a exact prediction of any specific particle. They can
only calculate the probability of a particle doing one thing or
another. In other words, this ‘quantum behavior’ is non-deterministic
or ‘random.’ Some scientists and philosophers this randomness
provides ‘wiggle room’ for consciousness and free will.26 However,
this idea creates at least serious problems with understanding free
will.
The first problem with quantum compatibilism is that free will is
not in itself randomness. Free will, as shown above, requires
consciousness, an agent to make a choice, an agent to make a choice;
knowledge of the alternatives; intention or teleology; a capacity to
transcend causal laws; volition or the desire to carry out an action;
and judgment to know the potential consequences. The randomness
of some sub-atomic particles cannot even meet the most basic
requirements for free will and freedom nor can we derive the
attributes of free will from randomness. None of the qualities of
consciousness can be conjured out of the mere absence of causal laws
and there is nothing about the nature of sub-atomic particles that
suggests they could be. Neither can these qualities be derived from
unpredictability. Indeed, if these qualities were present, we would no
longer be dealing with the scientific concept of matter.
The second problem of the quantum free will proposal is raised by
quantum compatibilist Ching-Hung Woo:
In quantum physics the so-called probability amplitude
evolves
according
to
deterministic
laws
but
the
transformation from many possible outcomes to one actual
outcome takes place purely by chance. The statistical
distribution for such chance events follows strict rules, but
the outcome of an individual chance event is unpredictable
and cannot be controlled by will. Thus any decision is either
the predictable result of earlier causes (which may include
quantum chance events) and is not free from determinism, or

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
is itself a quantum chance event and is not willed. Either way,
the free will we commonly take for granted is absent. What
then is the freedom to choose that we so cherish and which
politicians like to invoke at every opportunity?27
This
passage
identifies
another
difficulty
with
quantum
compatibilism: random events happen only by chance and chance
“cannot be controlled by will.” This means there is, in effect, no free
will28since the whole point of free will is to achieve control and
achieve certain desired goals. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out that humans
are different from — and above — nature precisely because they have
free will, i.e. control over nature. He points out,
according to natural law these mysteries [of nature] should
remain latent, hidden; but man has proceeded to break this
law, free himself from this rule . . . Therefore, he is the ruler
and commander of nature. [PUP 17]
The third problem raised by quantum compatibilism is that there is
no reason to identify impersonal random processes with a person or
agent or self who can make free decisions. Quantum randomness has
no attributes that allow identification with a self or “rational soul”
[SAQ 66:2] and its personal freedom. Without the active capacity of
an agent or self, there are only bare events and no intended personal
actions. Consequently, without a necessary connection to personal
free will, the quantum concept of free will cannot refer to us as
individuals.
Finally, it bears repeating that random quantum processes are no
less material than the macrocosmic variety. From the perspective of
contemporary science, no matter how they are described, physical
processes do not have the potentials for the emergence of non-
physical entities or processes such agents and consciousness. As noted
above, if it is claimed that matter has such non-physical aspect it is
clear that the kind of matter we are referring to is not the matter of
modern physics.
The remaining world-view related to the free will issue is what we
shall refer to as ‘transcendentalism’ which can exist in a variety of
forms.29 Whatever their other differences, they all share certain
fundamental principles. The first is the existence of non-material

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
entities or processes are part of or all of or originators of reality.
This leads to the second fundamental principle that scientific
materialism cannot provide adequate explanations of the phenomenal
world. To understand the phenomenal world we will inevitably need
to refer to non-material entities such as God or a ground of being,
Platonic Ideas, Aristotelian Forms, potentials [SAQ 51:4-5], teleology
or mind. Some forms of transcendentalism, like Plato’s, assert that
the physical world has a lesser degree of reality and is only a shadow
of an ideal supersensible world which is the origin of reality. Aristotle
— and the Writings — maintains that all things are composed of
matter and form which gives the matter its particular attributes.30
Form transcends matter. This form of transcendentalism is found in
the Bahá’í Writings.31 Plotinus taught that the entire phenomenal
world was the result of the overflow of God’s goodness.32 Other
forms of transcendentalism such as Berkeley’s subjective idealism
assert that reality is entirely mental33 since all our experiences and
knowledge are mental. Kicking a rock does not prove the existence of
the rock but only our personal sensation or ‘idea’ of the rock.
From a transcendental view point, non-physical entities as souls,
minds, spirit, mind, forms and values are real whereas in scientific
materialism they are not and can be reduced to physical processes.
Transcendentalism is obviously compatible with belief in a superior
being and with teleology both in mankind and nature. It also forms
the basis for belief in values and morals as real, independent entities
and not merely personal or collective opinion. Most important
perhaps, is its compatibility with the concept of a non-material ‘self’
which by its very nature is not totally enmeshed in the causal law of
nature. This also establishes the basis for belief in immortality and
spiritual progress after death.
Part 3: The Ontology and Psychology of Freedom
The Bahá’í philosophy of freedom is grounded in the metaphysical
and psychological teachings found in the Writings. Human free will is
based on the teaching that the “rational soul” which is the essence of
mankind [SAQ 55:5] is a substance in the Aristotelian sense.34 In other
words, it is not an attribute, property or quality of anything else and
that it ontologically separate and distinct from other things and in
that sense is independent from them Moreover it can take action, i.e.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
it has agency.35 For example, we do not see qualities like ‘fluffy,’
‘white’ and ‘hopping’ just by themselves; they do not exist
independently. However, we do see them as attributes or qualities in
my pet rabbit, Hopper. In short, Hopper is a substance that possesses
several attributes that identify it; he is separate and distinct from
other things and can take action. Hopper himself is not a quality but
a substance. He is ontologically independent, i.e. separate and
distinct. Neither can he be changed or reduced into an attribute or
quality.
Because the Writings embody transcendental metaphysics, they
also recognize the existence of non-material or spiritual substances.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts that mankind
even understands things that have no outward existence, that
is, intelligible, imperceptible, and unseen realities such as the
mind, the spirit, human attributes and qualities, love and
sorrow — all of which are intelligible realities. [SAQ 48:4]
They are also called “intellectual realities” [TAB1 208; cf. SAQ].
Materialist
metaphysics,
of
course,
cannot
recognize
these
“intelligible realities” as non-material substances or processes because
the materialist paradigm requires all things to be reducible to physical
things or events. In contrast, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá shows that the rational
soul is a substance, and more: it is a spiritual substance that survives
the death of the body. He says,
Some hold that the body is the substance and that it subsists
by itself, and that the spirit is an accident which subsists
through the substance of the body. The truth, however, is
that the rational soul is the substance through which the body
subsists. If the accident — the body — is destroyed, the
substance — the spirit — remains.
There are several important steps in this argument. First, there is the
fact that the rational soul is a substance that “subsists by itself” or is
ontologically independent, which is to say, it is separate and distinct.
Not only is each rational soul substance separate and distinct from
every other but it is also a spiritual substance which in itself is free
from the vicissitudes of nature. That is why it is not dependent on

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
the body to exist but rather has the body as an attribute while living
in the material realm. Indeed, the body is an ‘accidental’ attribute,
which means that it is not necessary for the rational soul to exist in
itself though it is necessary for rational soul’s life in the material
world. Precisely because the rational soul has the body as an
accidental attribute or quality, the soul is able to continue existing —
and evolving — despite the body’s demise.
Shoghi Effendi also support the soul’s existence as a substance. He
says that the human spirit or rational soul “continues after death in
another form [and that] the human spirit is capable of infinite
development.”36 In other words, the rational soul does not depend on
its natural and social environment to exist. Its identity and existence
are constant features in any settings. Shoghi Effendi re-enforces this
point by adding “Man's identity or rather his individuality is never
lost. His reality as a person remains intact throughout the various
states of his development.”37 The embryo itself is a substance insofar
as it is separate and distinct from other beings because (among other
things) it has a unique genetic make-up, a different blood type from
the mother and its own neural system.
Because the rational soul is a spiritual substance or “intellectual
reality” it is inherently endowed with free will which cannot be lost
or destroyed in the physical world. This means that humankind is, at
least in principle, intrinsically free and is able to make choices. Only
mankind is able by his spiritual power, has been able to free himself,
“to soar above the world of matter and to make it his servant” [PT
21]. In other words, mankind’s ability to ‘transcend’ or “soar above
the world of matter” is one of the foundations of free will and
freedom.
At this point we shall take a brief detour to answer an objection
to Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching on this subject. It may be argued that the
rational soul which is man’s substance is, contrary to the foregoing
explanation, not necessarily free from material limitations. Among
other things it is subject to death, sleep and various ailments [SAQ
70:3]. However, Bahá’u’lláh assures us that
the soul of man is exalted above, and is independent of all
infirmities of body or mind. That a sick person showeth signs
of weakness is due to the hindrances that interpose

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
themselves between his soul and his body, for the soul itself
remaineth unaffected by any bodily ailments. Consider the
light of the lamp. Though an external object may interfere
with its radiance, the light itself continueth to shine with
undiminished power. [GWB 153, emphasis added]
Bahá’u’lláh makes it clear that soul “remaineth unaffected by any
bodily ailments” which is to say that in itself, the soul is transcends
the physical world. In itself, the soul is not subject to the laws of
cause and effect or any other laws of nature. However, manifesting
its spiritual and intellectual powers in the physical world requires a
body — and the imperfections of the body may diminish or even
prevent the soul from manifesting its capacities. Thus, in itself, the
soul is not affected by the physical body but in relationship to the
material world its expressions may be affected. This leads to a
significant question: can the body’s restrict the soul’s expressions in
the physical world? What happens to free will then? Insofar as the
Bahá’í Writings recognize the effects of illness and inherent physical
inadequacies, there is, in our view, little question that under certain
circumstances some persons may not be able to manifest their best
intentions. A brain tumor may suppress our free will. In one case, a
long time teacher with an exemplary record suddenly began showing
signs of pedophilia. Once his brain tumor was removed, his behavior
returned to normal.38 In other words, the brain tumor (which was
removed) prevented his soul from manifesting its natural care for
children in the material world.
3.1: Ontological Basis of Freedom
According to the Bahá’í Writings “Man alone has freedom” [PT 42]
and, therefore, is an exceptional and unique being in the natural
world; humans have a unique place in the order of the phenomenal
world. There are foundation stones for mankind’s freedom — one is
ontological and the other is epistemological. Although it is
advantageous to distinguish the two intellectually, in reality the two
are inter-related.
In the Writings, we observe that free will is based on a substance-
attribute ontology39 which analyzes all things as being either a
substance or an attribute (quality). Attributes or qualities are either

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
essential attributes which a thing must have to be the kind of thing it
is, or accidental attributes which a thing may or may not have. For
example, wheels are an essential attribute of a car but the color is
accidental; my truck ‘Hercules’ is still a truck whether it is orange or
green.
Before we examine how ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explicitly uses this
substance-attribute ontology too prove the immortality of the soul,
we must look at it in more detail. As shown in previous papers,40 this
passages uses the Aristotelian terminology and concepts of
‘substance,’ ‘accident’ and ‘attribute.’ In the Writings, substance —
as in Aristotle — does not always refer to physical matter. It is a
philosophical term used in the Bahá’í Writings for things that (1) are
not a quality or attribute of anything else; (2) possess attributes; (3)
are independent and can “subsist” [SAQ 276] by themselves; (4) have
potentials to actualize. Each substance possess certain attributes or
qualities that identify it as a certain kind of thing and as a particular
example of a certain kind of thing. ‘Substance’ is such an important
concept in the Writings that even God is a substance: according to
the Writings, the spiritual aspect of the Manifestations “is born of
the substance of God Himself” [GWB 66]. Of course, this cannot
mean that God is material but rather that He is absolutely separate
and independent from everything [GWB 65], that He has certain
attributes, that He is not an attribute of anything else, i.e. no one
comprehends Him. Unlike other substances, God has no potentials,
i.e. He is complete as He is and does not change.41 Here is a natural
example of ‘substance.’ My pet ducks Jack and Jill each have wings
and a bill that identify them as ducks but each also has certain
mottling patterns on the bill that identify them as unique and
particular ducks. The unique mottling patterns are “accident[s] that
could be changed without Jack and Jill ceasing to be ducks. Both of
them exist as a separate and independent beings; one could die
without the other one dying too. Furthermore, both have potentials
that can be actualized; Jill can lay eggs and hatch a new brood of
ducklings and Jack can father a new brood and protect it from
predatory crows and the occasional rat.
Speaking of the “rational soul” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, says (see full quote
above) that “… the rational soul is the substance through which the
body subsists. If … the body is destroyed, … the spirit remains” [SAQ

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
276]. In other words, the human essence, i.e. rational soul, is a
spiritual and not physical entity and the body is a temporary
accidental attribute in the material realm. Accidental attributes can
be changed without negating the substance itself which is why the
human substance, the rational soul is immortal and the body is not.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also refers to the rational soul; human spirit and
mind are what He calls “intelligible realities which have no outward
form or place and which are not sensible. He states,
the power of the mind is not sensible, nor are any of the
human attributes. These are intelligible realities. Love,
likewise, is an intelligible and not a sensible reality. For the
ear does not hear these realities, the eye does not see them,
the smell does not sense them, the taste does not detect them,
the touch does not perceive them . . . Likewise, nature itself
is an intelligible and not a sensible reality; the human spirit is
an intelligible and not a sensible reality. [SAQ 93, emphasis
added]
“The power of the soul is free” [TAF 8]. Unlike animals it is not
necessarily subject to nature — unless of course, mankind uses its
freedom to enslave itself to nature.
The animal creation is captive to matter, God has given
freedom to man. The animal cannot escape the law of nature,
whereas man may control it, for he, containing nature, can
rise above it. [PT 38]
Therefore, the “rational soul” is not subject to natural cause-and-
effect and, therefore, is not part of the physical natural world and
not subject to its laws. In other words, the Writings reject both the
determinist and compatibilist claim that humans — and their brains —
are simply stimulus-response machines doing whatever the laws of
nature require. Since the self is the brain and the brain is physical and
obeys the laws of physics and bio-chemistry, there can be no
deviation from these laws and therefore, free will is a delusion.42

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
3.2: The Epistemology of Freedom
The Writings say,
Among the teachings of His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh is man's
freedom: that through the Ideal Power he should be
emancipated and free from the captivity of the world of
nature; for as long as man is captive to nature he is a
ferocious animal.43
This statement asserts that if humans cannot free themselves from the
trammels of nature, they will not be able to actualize their uniquely
human features [PUP 309] and behave like animals according to their
unrestrained instincts. However, God has endowed humans with a
special power that enables their rational souls to free themselves
from captivity to nature. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes that
In man, however, there is a discovering power that
transcendeth the world of nature and controlleth and
interfereth with the laws thereof. For instance, all minerals,
plants and animals are captives of nature . . . Man, however,
though in body the captive of nature is yet free in his mind
and soul, and hath the mastery over nature. [TAF 9, emphasis
added]
He adds,
The animal is the captive of nature and cannot transgress the
rules and laws thereof. Inman, however, there is a discovering
power that transcendeth the world of nature and controlleth
and interfereth with the laws thereof.
[TAF 10]
In other words, mankind’s essentially spiritual nature transcends or
surpasses physical creation and, therefore, has “mastery over
creation.”44 This means that physical nature does not intrinsically rule
over mankind’s spiritual aspects including the “rational soul” —
unless, of course, mankind chooses to let our physical, animal nature
do so. To help humans avoid making this mistake,
The Manifestations of God have come into the world to free
man from these bonds and chains of the world of nature. . . .

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The purpose of Their coming, Their teaching and suffering
was the freedom of man from himself. [PUP 186]
3.3: The Power of Abstraction
To help explain mankind’s exceptional nature and the “Ideal” or
“discovering Power” that provides humanity with freedom, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá informs us that “the animal . . . only knows that which is
perceived by his animal senses, he cannot imagine anything in the
abstract” [PT 42], and that animals “have no power of abstract
reasoning and intellectual ideals” [PUP 309]. This means that animal
intelligence is enclosed or imprisoned in what is available to their
senses, either immediately in the present or through memories of the
past. They cannot transcend their completely sensible life-world or
Lebenswelt just as humans cannot transcend the Lebenswelt imposed
by our God-given human nature.45 Unlike animals, mankind is
“distinguished above them [animals] by his conscious power of
penetrating abstract realities” [PUP 260].
The ability to abstract enables mankind to “transcend” nature and
discover the essence of things (as revealed by their attributes [SAQ
59:4]) because abstraction allows us to go beyond the individual,
concrete examples — such as a flock of ducks — and abstract their
common attributes to arrive at the class or concept or essence of
‘duckhood’ by which we can identify ducks wherever we encounter
them. Everything in nature is an individual — cars, stars daffodils,
chairs and lobsters — and animal perception is limited to these
individual things. However, each thing is also a member of a class or
kind of things and abstraction enables us to identify the kind or class
and understand it as far as human capacities permit. The power of
abstraction allows mankind to “penetrate the mysteries of existence”
so that “matters of the intellect may be deduced from and conveyed
through the sensible” [SAQ 3:10]. In short, “the animal perceives
sensible things but cannot perceive conceptual realities” [SAQ 48:6]
such as ideas or essences.46 Furthermore, Abdu’l-Bahá states that
mankind “discovereth the inherent properties of things that are the
secrets of nature . . . and transfereth these hidden secrets from the
invisible to the visible plane” [TAF 11]. In other words, with
abstraction humans are able to draw general conclusions about
natural phenomena that are not directly available to the senses, such

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
as the spherical shape of the earth [PUP 357]. The animal lacks “the
reasonable perception . . . [and] cannot apprehend the ideal realities.
The animal cannot conceive of the earth as a sphere” [PUP 357]. By
“reasonable perception” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá means that human perception
can apply the laws of reason to what they observe to make inferences,
anticipate events and plan responses.47 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá summarizes this
teaching:
Although man shares the same outward powers and senses in
common with the animal, there exists in him an extraordinary
power of which the animal is deprived. All sciences, arts,
inventions, crafts, and discoveries of realities proceed from
this singular power. This is a power that encompasses all
created things, comprehends their realities, unravels their
hidden mysteries, and brings them under its control. It even
understands things that have no outward existence, that is,
intelligible, imperceptible, and unseen realities such as the
mind, the spirit, human attributes and qualities, love and
sorrow — all of which are intelligible realities. [SAQ 49:5]
Because humanity is not necessarily subject to nature, it has the
freedom to evolve intellectually, socially and spiritually and to “to
carry forward an ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214] as
commanded by Bahá’u’lláh. In other words, the entire project of
progressive revelation depends on mankind’s free will, as do
individual and collective ethics, creativity in the arts and objectivity
in the sciences and humanities.48 Without free will we cannot exist as
humans.
The second reason mankind has free will is the rational soul or
human spirit which no other species possesses and, therefore, is the
identifying feature or essence of the human race. “The human spirit,
which distinguishes man from the animal, is the rational soul, and
these two terms — the human spirit and the rational soul — designate
one and the same thing” [SAQ 55:5]. This spirit or soul identify
humanity’s essential exceptionality in the phenomenal world. In the
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Although man is part of the animal creation,
he possesses a power of thought superior to all other created beings”
[PT 22]. He elaborates this theme by adding that “The human spirit
consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning faculty, which

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
apprehends general ideas and things intelligible and perceptible”
[TAB1 115, emphasis added]. “General ideas” are abstractions from
numerous particulars such as the concept of ‘chairs’ or ‘dogs’ or
‘empiricism.’ It should be recalled that “apprehend[ing] general ideas”
is part of the process of abstraction which frees mankind from
entrapment in nature. Furthermore,
This spirit . . . discovers their realities and becomes aware of
the properties and effects, the characteristics and conditions
of earthly things. But the human spirit, unless it be assisted
by the spirit of faith, cannot become acquainted with the
divine mysteries and the heavenly realities. [SAQ 55:5, emphasis
added]
The foregoing observations show the close connection between free
will, the human spirit or rational soul, the power of abstraction and
our spiritual capacities. Without the human spirit and its ability to
abstract, humankind would remain a prisoner of nature and, like
other beings, lack freedom. Of course, the rational soul requires
assistance from “the spirit of faith” to comprehend spiritual truths
that are not available from a study of nature alone. These truths are
trans-rational, i.e. they require ways of knowing other than
inferential reason along with the “awakening [of our] spiritual
susceptibilities” [PUP 9].
The inherent freedom of the rational soul has several important
consequences for the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom. First, it means
that without freedom, humans cannot truly be themselves and are,
therefore, condemned to live inauthentically. This situation distorts
their natural God-given character insofar as humans develop an image
of themselves as weak, unfree victims ‘fated’ or compelled by their
nature and living as mere instruments of superior forces. This
encourages a passive or victim mind-set and denial of personal
responsibility. These negative attributes directly hinder “carry[ing]
forward an ever-advancing civilization” [GWB 214] because they
create more obstacles to overcome. However such hindrance is
exactly the logical consequence of a materialist meta-physics which
see mankind as totally embedded in and controlled by natural forces
and laws like a puppet or a (philosophical) zombie.49 This, in turn,
obstructs the intellectual and spiritual progress of the individual and

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
his/her society. Furthermore, without freedom and especially
freedom from nature, people are not living as God intended them to,
or, conversely, they are living against God’s will for humankind and,
therefore, inauthentically. Without authenticity or at least the
struggle for authenticity spiritual development is impossible.
Part 4: Free Will and Moral Agency

The capacity for free will and exercising agency is essential to the
Bahá’í philosophy of human nature and freedom. Because the
“rational soul” is a substance with free will, it requires no antecedent
physical stimulus to act, which is to say, it can cause its own action.
Causing its own action is precisely what materialist philosophies deny
insofar as in their view, no events have free will or agency. All events
are the results of pre-determined external causes and lead to pre-
determined consequences. There can be no alternatives to what
actually happens. The law of cause and effect is supreme.
In the following statement, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out some of the
ways humans may choose to initiate action (agency) without a
foregoing physical stimulus.
It is evident therefore that man is ruler over nature's sphere
and province. Nature is inert, man is progressive. Nature has
no consciousness, man is endowed with it. Nature is without
volition and acts perforce whereas man possesses a mighty
will. Nature is incapable of discovering mysteries or realities
whereas man is especially fitted to do so. Nature is not in
touch with the realm of God, man is attuned to its evidences.
Nature is uninformed of God, man is conscious of Him. Man
acquires divine virtues, nature is denied them. Man can
voluntarily discontinue vices, nature has no power to modify
the influence of its instincts. Altogether it is evident that
man is more noble and superior; that in him there is an ideal
power surpassing nature. He has consciousness, volition,
memory, intelligent power, divine attributes and virtues of
which nature is completely deprived, bereft and minus;
therefore man is higher and nobler by reason of the ideal and
heavenly force latent and manifest in him. [PUP 178, emphasis
added]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Mankind cannot possess these attributes passively; instead, they are
potentials until we choose to actualize or activate them. For example,
ruling nature does not just happen — it is the result of choices and
actions. Being progressive does not just happen to us — it is
something we must actively choose. Mysteries are uncovered by the
choice to explore and divine virtues do not attach themselves to us
like limpets but must be actively sought after. In other words, each
one of the attributes listed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is a human potential
which must be actualized by free will. The six conditions of free will
can only be activated by choice and cannot be compelled to activate
by others.50
The Bahá’í Writings are primarily concerned with ethical free will
since human morality and spirituality are the foundations of
progress. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
[c]ertain matters are subject to the free will of man, such as
acting with justice and fairness, or injustice and iniquity—in
other words, the choice of good or evil actions. It is clear and
evident that the will of man figures greatly in these actions.
But there are certain matters where man is forced and
compelled, such as sleep, death, sickness, failing powers,
misfortune, and material loss. [SAQ 70:3]
Mankind is not omnipotent in the material world and vis-à-vis events
like death, illness or bad luck, mankind is practically powerless.
However, in regards to ethical issues, the capacity to act ethically is
always there — though doing so is not always easy. In a similar vein
Bahá’u’lláh decrees that “the faith of no man can be conditioned by
anyone except himself” [GWB 143] which is say the rational soul has
agency in regards to belief in God. Even in countries like Soviet
Russia with an ideologically enforced atheism it is still possible to
have a silent but heart-felt faith in God. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá adds that “all
the doings of man are sustained by the power of divine assistance,
but the choice of good or evil belongs to him alone” [SAQ 70:7]. He
adds that “the choice of good and evil belongs to man, but that under
all circumstances he is dependent upon the life-sustaining assistance
of Divine Providence” [SAQ 70:3]. Furthermore, he says, “he [man] is
free in the choice of good and evil actions, and it is of his own

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
accord that he performs them” [SAQ 70:3]. In other words, we ‘make
ourselves’ by our choices.
By their guidance, the Manifestations remind us that spiritual
choices are necessary for progress.
No matter how much man may acquire material virtues, he
will not be able to realize and express the highest possibilities
of life without spiritual graces. God has created all earthly
things under a law of progression in material degrees, but He
has created man and endowed him with powers of
advancement toward spiritual and transcendental kingdoms.
He has not created material phenomena after His own image
and likeness, but He has created man after that image and
with potential power to attain that likeness. He has
distinguished man above all other created things. [PUP 302]
Making non-spiritual choices our development as individuals and
collectives is retarded and distorted. The challenge is to activate the
“potential power” to re-make ourselves in the spiritual image of God.
To help us meet this challenge Bahá’u’lláh exhorts us “Release
yourselves, O nightingales of God, from the thorns and brambles of
wretchedness and misery, and wing your flight to the rose-garden of
unfading splendor” [GWB 319, emphasis added]. The call to “Release
yourselves” emphasizes our capacity to use our free will and take
action.
In other words, we must remember that freedom and the exercise
of free will are, by themselves, not sufficient for an advancing
civilization. Without spirituality, progress would remain on the
material level and, thereby, be incomplete and incapable of raising
mankind above the animal level. This is because both the Bahá’í
philosophy of human nature and the embedded philosophy of
freedom are based on mankind’s essential spiritual nature. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá asserts that “Man is, in reality, a spiritual being, and only when
he lives in the spirit is he truly happy. This spiritual longing and
perception belongs to all men alike” [PT 73]. If nothing else, that
“spiritual longing[s]” are an integral part of human nature and must
be satisfied in one way or another if we are to live authentically or
devise a genuinely workable philosophy of freedom. Without the
genuine freedom to fulfill our God-given “spiritual longing[s],”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
mankind’s existence would be irrational and, as Sartre says, “a useless
passion.”51 The Writings also teach that human nature, i.e. our
inherent capacities and potentialities is bestowed by God on all
human beings regardless time, place or historical circumstances.52
Moreover, human nature is teleological, i.e. is part of a personal and
collective evolutionary and progressive process. This provides
mankind with intrinsic goals to attain.
Part 5: Freedom and the Manifestations,
Progressive Revelation, and Ethics
The Bahá’í Writings require free will in order to support at least
five of its foundational teachings. First, free will is necessary for
human beings to be human. As shown above, it is an intrinsic aspect
of the rational soul which is capable of transcending nature. On this
issue at least the Writings agree with of Jean-Paul Sartre who writes,
“there is no determinism — man is free, man is freedom . . . man is
condemned to be free.”53 If humans try to escape from their freedom,
i.e. the lack of free will would reduce them to the status of animals.
They would become bio-chemical robots54 totally subjected to the
laws of nature. Without free will, cleverly programmed robots might
be able to imitate what looks like free action but true willingness to
do anything including self-transformative change is beyond them.
This is because willingness requires purpose and intention, i.e. two
attributes that, according to science, matter does not have.55 In short,
the denial of free will undermines a crucial feature of the Bahá’í
revelation, namely, the capacity to make spiritual and moral progress.
Second: without human free will, there is no need for
Manifestations of God since Their guidance would not be able to
initiate any voluntary changes in thinking and behavior. Why exhort
people to change and improve themselves when they lack the ability
to do so? Manifestations would be no more than puppet masters and
the whole point of awakening “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] and
advancing mankind’s spiritual development would be lost. The same
holds true for the Manifestations’ teachings about societies, nations
and empires. Why prophesy and warn that the Rhine will twice run
red with blood if the Kaiser and Germans cannot act otherwise than
they did?

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
The third doctrine that requires human free will is the command to
teach the Faith to assist mankind. Bahá’u’lláh proclaims,
The whole of mankind is in the grip of manifold ills. Strive,
therefore, to save its life through the wholesome medicine
which the almighty hand of the unerring Physician hath
prepared. [GWB 80]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá adds, “Teaching the Cause is of utmost importance for
it is the head corner-stone of the foundation itself” [WT 10]. The
problem is that without free will it is pointless to engage in teaching
efforts to inspire seekers with Bahá’u’lláh’s message. If they cannot
change, how can people develop a willingness to convert to new ways
of thinking, acting and interpreting the world? Furthermore, public
proclamations, firesides and Holy Day celebrations serve no purpose.
Moreover, it also suggests that those who have seemingly chosen to
become Bahá’í have only been pre-determined or caused to make this
‘choice’ — which makes the ‘choice’ morally worthless. An enforced
virtue is not really a virtue at all. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, only free choices
are ethically significant: “Man reacheth perfection through good
deeds, voluntarily performed, not through good deeds the doing of
which was forced upon him” [115]. Coerced changes cannot not meet
any of the six criteria of free will: consciousness; intent; an agent;
knowledge and judgment; will or volition; and the ability to
transcend cause and effect. Moreover, in coerced actions, the
motivating force is external to the supposedly ‘free’ subject. This, in
turn, negates the whole concept of progressive revelation as
individual and societal spiritual growth in the historical process.
Progressive revelation56 — one of the signature teachings of the
Bahá’í Faith — is the fourth major doctrine to be negated by the
denial of free will. According to this doctrine, human history is
teleological, i.e. evolving towards the future goal of “commonwealth
of all the nations of the world” [WOB 40] as part of a “world federal
system” [WOB 204]. Humanity’s spiritual and historical development
is guided by the Manifestations of God Who provide guidance that is
appropriate to the needs of a particular stage of human evolution.
There is, of course, no end in the succession of Manifestations
because human potentials are infinite. By freely accepting the
teachings of the Manifestations, we evolve as individuals and as

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
individuals evolve, so do their societies as well as the human race.57 In
short, progressive revelation includes both individual and collective
moral advancement towards a unified “world commonwealth” [PB].
Free will is essential to progressive revelation — and to its
correlate, the historical process leading to world unity. The reasons
are given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Man reacheth perfection through good deeds, voluntarily
performed, not through good deeds the doing of which was
forced upon him . . . sharing is a personally chosen righteous
act. [SWAB 115, emphasis added]
This statement leads to two conclusions. First, if an act is to have any
moral value it must be the result of free will. We might also say that
the freedom with which an act is done is the basis of its moral value.
“[G]ood deeds voluntarily performed” are morally positive and bad
deeds “voluntarily reformed” are morally wicked. In both cases, the
acts have moral value whereas the pistons propelling an ambulance to
save a life are amoral. The second conclusion is that moral acts must
be “personally chosen,” must be the result of a free choice by an
agent or self, i.e. by a rational soul that can generate motivation and
action on its own without any external stimulus. The third conclusion
is that genuine moral acts are “personally chosen” and, thereby
connected to the agent or rational soul. Dependent acts, however, are
not personal insofar as the impulsion to act comes something that is
external to them. It is difficult if not impossible to explain why the
rational soul should take responsibility — credit or blame — for acts
that are forced upon it.
Fifth, without free will there can be no ethics58 because ethics
consists of making moral decisions and explaining why they are good,
bad or indifferent. If these decisions are not freely made, i.e. coerced
by natural laws or by other external forces, there is no decision being
made and consequently, there are no ethics. There is nothing to
evaluate — except a mechanical event performed by a human robot or
zombie. In addition, there is no agent, self or rational soul to point
out as the originator of an act; nor is there consciousness; an agent to
make a choice; intention; knowledge of the alternatives; volition or
the desire to carry out an action; and judgment to know the potential

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
consequences; the ability to transcend causality i.e. spirituality. None
of these qualities are attributable to the material world.
Ethics requires an intrinsic connection between an agent or
rational soul and a certain action done by the agent — an external
force. The concept of ethics has no meaning without an explicit or
implicit foundation in free will — which is why we do not charge
machines with evil intentions and crimes. This is exactly where ethics
based on materialism crumble because they only recognize causality
and pre-determination which in turn deny free will which depends on
an intrinsic connection between the agent and the act. Showing such
an intrinsic connection between agent and act is the basis of
assigning responsibility and of moral judgment. Without the ability
to assign responsibility, i.e. without the ability to show why a
particular agent is necessary and sufficient to start an event, mankind
would be unable to establish ethical codes that allow or forbid certain
things.
The existence of free will leads to an emphasis on individual
responsibility without which ethics and societal life are impossible
because no social organization is viable without (1) knowing why we
did something; (2) acknowledge the act as our own; and (3) accepting
the positive or negative consequences of the act. Bahá’u’lláh refers to
these
positive
or
negative
consequences
as
“reward”
and
“punishment.” He declares that the “structure of world stability and
order hath been reared upon, and will continue to be sustained by,
the twin pillars of reward and punishment” [GWB 218]. Elsewhere He
says that
Justice hath a mighty force at its command. It is none other
than reward and punishment for the deeds of men. By the
power of this force the tabernacle of order is established
throughout the world, causing the wicked to restrain their
natures for fear of punishment. [TB 164]
The principle of responsibility is illustrated at the spiritual level, by
God’s rejection of the atheist’s attempt to blame others and the
zeitgeist for his disbelief in God [GWB 143]. Bahá’u’lláh decrees that
“the faith of no man can be conditioned by anyone except himself”
[GWB 143] which is say we are personally responsible for our belief or
disbelief in God. All societal and legal arrangements require

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
responsibility for our actions in our personal lives, in our work and
in the practice of citizenship. Attempts to evade free will and
responsibility are in effect, attempts to abandon and/or betray the
human nature has given us.
The emphasis on individual responsibility also requires us to
embrace an “ethics of authenticity” i.e. we must seek to be what we’
actually are, i.e. humans with a spiritual nature and not animals. We
cannot be authentic human beings if we do not accept the
responsibilities entailed by our nature. In the words of Bahá’u’lláh,
To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of man. Those
virtues that befit his dignity are forbearance, mercy,
compassion and loving-kindness towards all the peoples and
kindreds of the earth. [GWB 214]
Because we are obligated to live in a way that is appropriate to our
human nature there is no real freedom — only its simulacrum — in
trying to be something we are not and cannot be no matter how hard
we try. Self-betrayal is not self-actualization. That is why arguments
seeking to justify human behaviors such as a multiplicity of mates or
homosexuality are logically invalid; they assume humans and animals
are the same kinds of creatures which is not the case. In logic, this is
known as a ‘category mistake.’
Because free will, responsibility, intention and authenticity are
individual in nature, it follows logically that the Bahá’í teachings
reject the concept of collective guilt, i.e. the notion that an
individual member of an entire group can be made responsible for the
misdeeds of a few or even his/her ancestors. Such blanket
condemnations violate the basic principle of justice of which
Bahá’u’lláh says,
Justice, which consisteth in rendering each his due, dependeth
upon and is conditioned by two words: reward and
punishment. From the standpoint of justice, every soul
should receive the reward of his actions, inasmuch as the
peace and prosperity of the world depend thereon. [TU]
They key to justice is giving each individual “the reward of his
actions” not the reward or punishment for someone else. Collective

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
guilt is also an invalid concept because it renders free will useless: if
we can be made responsible for things others did, then what is the
purpose of using free will to make good choices? Moreover, as
Bahá’u’lláh points out, this ‘principle of individual responsibility’
helps keep society in “peace and prosperity” because it does not
undermine social unity. The proof of His wisdom is readily seen in
the burgeoning of identity politics which often pit various groups
against one another.
In addition, responsibility for the appropriate use of free will does
not end at the personal level. We also have collective responsibilities.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us that
Each human creature has individual endowment, power and
responsibility in the creative plan of God. Therefore, depend
upon your own reason and judgment and adhere to the
outcome of your own investigation. [PUP 292, emphasis added]
Having “responsibility in the creative plan of God,” which is to say,
responsibility for the good of society and the advancement of
humankind, requires all persons to make the correct ethical choices in
their own lives. In other words, we must be aware that we not only
create our own second nature with our choices but also bear some
responsibility for the spiritual progress of mankind: “All men have
been created to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization” [GWB
214]. In short, our responsibilities in using free will stretch beyond
ourselves.
5.1: A Note on Free Will and Evil
There is so much to be said on the subject of free will and evil —
and related subjects inevitably brought into the discussion — that we
can only draw attention to some of the salient points. What is
obvious that if free will is to have any meaning is that without the
ability to choose evil, free will is meaningless. If mankind can only
choose and do good things, then there is no moral choice and free will
would not exist since there is no need for it. Furthermore, there
would be no mankind since, as we have seen, free will is one of its
essential attributes. However, mankind is necessary for another
reason:

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
If man did not exist, the universe would be without result,
for the purpose of existence is the revelation of the divine
perfections. We cannot say, then, that there was a time when
man was not. At most we can say that there was a time when
this earth did not exist, and that at the beginning man was
not present upon it. [SAQ 50:4]
Thus, humankind and its intrinsic free will are necessary to the
cosmic order. Of course, justice also requires free will because
without choices, there is no basis for assigning reward and
punishment. Nor, as we have noted, can there be progressive
revelation and personal spiritual progress be possible without free
will.
One question about free will concerns its compatibility with
progressive revelation i.e. God’s plan for humanity’s historical
development to a federal global commonwealth. If humans are free to
do evil, how can this goal be achieved? How can free will be
compatible with the Bab’s prayer, “All are His servants and all abide
by His bidding” [SWB 214]? If all are God’s servants, how can they
carry out God’s will? In our understanding, part of the answer lies in
progressive revelation itself through which Manifestations — and
humans if properly guided — will produce new good from previous
evil. In this way, free choice is preserved for the individuals but
progress is still made. That is also what we accomplish when we
return good for meanness or evil. A bad act becomes the basis of a
new good act.
There is much more to be said on this subject but that requires a
new study dedicated to this subject alone.
Part 6: Free Will, Justice, and Society
Without individual free will, there is no rational basis for justice,
i.e. applying the appropriate consequences to actions. Bahá’u’lláh
states that “Justice . . . consisteth in rendering each his due,
dependeth upon and is conditioned by two words: reward and
punishment” [TU, emphasis added]. Without free will, i.e. conscious and
intentional actions there is no point to applying rewards and
punishments. No one punishes machines ‘misbehaving’ — we repair

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
them instead. They cannot meet any of the six criteria for free will:
consciousness; intent; an agent; knowledge and judgment; will or
volition; and the ability to transcend cause and effect. To say we are
‘rewarding’ a car with an oil change is to speak metaphorically and
not factually. Bahá’u’lláh adds, “The structure of world stability and
order hath been reared upon, and will continue to be sustained by,
the twin pillars of reward and punishment” [TU].
No society, nation or international union can function without
the ability to encourage or reward positive actions and sanction or
punish destructive ones. One of the major reasons for this is that
humankind is constituted by a struggle between our higher, spiritual
nature and our lower animal nature. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature
and his material or lower nature. In one he approaches God,
in the other he lives for the world alone . . . In his material
aspect he expresses untruth, cruelty and injustice; all these are
the outcome of his lower nature. [PT 60]
The threat of punishment is necessary to restrain our lower, animal
natures and keep actions and words within limits that safeguard the
well-being of society and to encourage actions that benefit all.
Moreover, without individual free will, there is no point to reward
and punishment and, therefore, no justice. “[R]endering each his due”
is based on the principle that individuals are able to make real and
meaningful choices and, therefore, must take personal responsibility
for their actions. As we have already seen above, such concepts do
not apply to machines.
Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s foregoing statements makes it
clear that in the Bahá’í Writings, free will and freedom are not ends-
in-themselves, i.e. final values by which other, subsidiary values are
justified. The exercise of free will should not be pursued for its own
sake and become its own justification. When the exercise of free will
becomes its own goal and its own justification, humans find it easier
to indulge irrationality and then rationalize it as the pursuit of free
will even though the actions are unworthy of human nature.
Celebrations of freedom for its own sake is what we find in
anarchists such as Mikhail Bakunin, Max Stirner and ‘Red’ Emma
Goldman. Contemporary groups like “Free Men on the Land” are

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
attempts to put such absolute unnuanced libertarian concepts into
practice.
In the Bahá’í Writings, the exercise of free will is an instrumental
value that is justified and judged by its contribution to mankind’s
spiritual and material evolution. We evaluate the use of free will by
its support for the actualization of our spiritual, intellectual, social
and creative potentials and not simply for its exercise for its own
sake. In other words, free will is subsidiary to the good — and most
people understand this at least in their daily lives. ‘The good’ in the
Writings is based on the recognition of God (see the Noonday Prayer)
and the subsequent positive values of actualizing individual and
societal potentials. Freedom is an important aspect of the Bahá’í
outlook but it is not the ultimate value. For example, most people
will voluntarily restrain their freedom of speech instead of hurting a
child’s feelings with a frank critique of its art work.
One of the most important — and challenging — questions about
freedom is — ‘What is mankind free for?’ It seems clear that the most
fundamental choice we have is between authenticity as “spiritual
beings” [PT 73] and non-authenticity as slaves to our animal
proclivities; between “becoming what [we] are” to paraphrase
Nietzsche59 and living a self-deceptive life of “bad faith”60 between
living up to our true potentials and living a life ruled by our animal
nature. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
when man does not open his mind and heart to the blessing of
the spirit, but turns his soul towards the material side,
towards the bodily part of his nature, then is he fallen from
his high place and he becomes inferior to the inhabitants of
the lower animal kingdom . . . if the spiritual qualities of the
soul, open to the breath of the Divine Spirit, are never used,
they become atrophied, enfeebled, and at last incapable;
whilst the soul's material qualities alone being exercised, they
become terribly powerful — and the unhappy, misguided man,
becomes more savage, more unjust, more vile, more cruel,
more malevolent than the lower animals. [PT 95]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear that we must not only choose but choose
correctly if we wish to actualize the specifically human potentials
that are in the essence that is given to us a priori by God. This is the

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
only way to be authentic both as a member of the human species and
as an individual. In other words, the Bahá’í Writings agree with the
principle that “authenticity should be taken seriously as a moral
ideal”61 and that they embody an “ethics of authenticity.”62 Our task
is to make the choices and take the actions that enable us to “become
what we are,”63 i.e. spiritual beings: “Man is, in reality, a spiritual
being, and only when he lives in the spirit is he truly happy” [PT 73].
His statement also reminds us not to fall into the relativistic trap
of thinking that all free choices are equal in nature, consequence and
validity. It seems clear that the Writings advocate the ‘spiritual
choice,’ the choice to actualize our higher potentials, is the only
correct one because it alone is appropriate for our divinely given
spiritual nature and rational soul. This concept is the basis of the
statement by the Universal House of Justice that
The Bahá’í concept of human nature is teleological; that is,
there are certain qualities intended by God for “human
nature,” and qualities which do not accord with these are
described as “unnatural” This does not mean that such
aberrations may not be caused by the operations of
“nature.”64
Although the denial of relativism may be rejected as ‘triumphalism,’
it must be remembered that Bahá’u’lláh recognizes that not all
religions — and by extension man-made systems of thought — are
worthy of recognition. He says, “All of them religions], except a few
which are the outcome of human perversity, were ordained of God,
and are a reflection of His Will and Purpose” [GWB 217]. In other
words, Bahá’u’lláh knows there are bad choices for us and to guide us
away from them is one of the reasons Manifestations appear.
Part 7: Some Challenges to the Bahá’í Philosophy
of Freedom
The concept of personal free will has been challenged as untenable
from
four
perspectives:
theological,
ethical,
scientific
and
philosophical. Each of these critiques can also be applied to the
Bahá’í Writings and have doubtlessly been encountered by Bahá’í
teachers especially in universities and colleges. Well known new

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
atheist authors such as Richard Dawkins,65 Sam Harris66 and
Christopher Hitchens67 make use of them, albeit often in a mangled
form.
One of the major theological and philosophical challenges to the
Bahá’í advocacy of free will is that God’s foreknowledge of our
actions prevents us from choosing freely because God’s omniscience
and omnipotence guarantees that His foreknowledge is correct. Our
choices cannot prove God wrong because then He would be neither
omniscient nor omnipotent. His infallible foreknowledge and power
destroy free will. There are at least four serious difficulties which
invalidate this challenge. First, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
The knowledge of a thing is not the cause of its occurrence;
for the essential knowledge of God encompasses the realities
of all things both before and after they come to exist, but it
is not the cause of their existence. This is an expression of
the perfection of God. [SAQ 156]
There are two things to note here. Most obviously, the
foreknowledge critique confuses and conflates two different orders
or aspects of reality — the order of knowledge and the order of
action.
Knowing something is not a cause, i.e. is not a necessary
determinant because knowledge is receptive, it is received from an
object and is about it. The object determines what we know about it,
as, for example, a logging truck coming at us down the highway.
Clearly, this knowledge does not cause the truck to crash into us —
even if we have scientific instruments taking measurements that
clearly predict a crash must happen according to the laws of physics.
In short, knowledge itself is not causal. On the other hand, a cause is
active, not receptive, it extends beyond itself to make events — like
truck crashes — happen. In other words, knowledge travels from the
object to the perceiver while action travels from the cause to the
object.
Second, knowledge and action are essentially distinct in another
way. To use ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s example, all other things being equal, our
knowledge that the sun will appear to rise in the east in the morning
does not cause the sun to rise. A surgeon’s detailed knowledge of a

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
procedure does not actually perform the procedure — nor can it even
make her want to perform the operation. An accountant may know
exactly how to ‘cook the books’ to cheat the government, but
without intention, no crime takes place. What is missing, in each of
these cases is intention which knowledge alone does not and cannot
provide. Intention is that which bridges knowledge and action and
without it, the development of action from knowledge is impossible
unless, of course, humans are robots or (philosophical) zombies. The
same distinction between knowledge and action applies to thinking
and doing which are also ontologically distinct.
A common sense way to illustrate how foreknowledge does not
cause an action is to imagine a man on a nigh hilltop observing a
hiker in the valley below. From his elevation, the spectator knows
what kind of terrain the hiker will be crossing a few hours from now
— regardless of which direction the hiker chooses to take. If the
hiker, is travelling along a path, the observer can even know a lot of
details about what s/he is going to go through. Of course, this
example has variations but they all illustrate that foreknowledge is
not necessarily causation.
Third, in the foregoing quotation ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts that “God
encompasses the realities of all things both before and after they
come to exist.” In other words, because He knows the essences or
“realities of all things,” He knows their potentials and capabilities,
their proclivities, their weaknesses and so on, but this does not create
and mobilize the actual intention to perform good or bad deeds. God
leaves that to our free will.
One of the unintended philosophical consequences of conflating
knowledge and thinking with cause and action is the collapse of ethics
because it ignores the essential role of intention. If we have an
involuntary arm spasm and spill a cup of coffee in someone’s lap, we
may be responsible in an accidental sense but are not guilty of wrong-
doing. Without this distinction, every accident whether major or
minor would be a misdeed — as was very often the case in Stalin’s
Russia where an unlucky trucker could be shot as a saboteur. In such
situations, ethics vanishes and is replaced by luck.
The fourth problem with the argument that God’s foreknowledge
(and omnipotence) destroys free will is that the concept of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
‘foreknowledge’ is relevant only to human beings who live in time
and not to God Who is beyond time. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “For God
the beginning and the end are one and the same” [SAQ 172]. He adds,
God’s knowledge in the contingent world does not produce
the forms of things. Rather, that knowledge is freed from the
distinctions of past, present, and future, and is identical with
the realization of all things without being the cause of that
realization. [SAQ 157]
As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out, God’s knowledge is out of time and,
therefore, exempt from foreknowledge. His knowledge is “identical
with the realization of all things” which is to say, that God’s
knowledge occurs as a human action is “realized” or carried out. This
suggests that God ‘is’ in an eternal present and therefore His
knowledge is contemporary with the act. In that case, God’s
knowledge is also not causal, i.e. He does not coerce our free will.
The subject of God’s foreknowledge brings up the issue of
predestination and fate. The Bahá’í Writings explicitly reject the
concept that God predestines our spiritual lives. In “I Was a Hidden
Treasure,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
by means of rational and traditional proofs it is established
and proven that [the concept of] Predestination is erroneous
and would require that the Absolute cause oppression and
compulsion in Its Creation whereas the complete justice of
God is firmly established.68
He rejects predestination because it implies that God is an oppressor
who overrides our free will and, thereby, turns us into puppets,
robots or (philosophical) zombies. This would be unjust because it
fails to treat human beings appropriately vis-à-vis their nature as free
beings. More explicitly, it contradicts God’s own action of endowing
mankind with free will. In addition, it also undermines God’s order in
creation by eliminating one of the features distinguishing mankind
from animals and with it His purpose in establishing humankind as
the acme of cosmic development [SAQ 50:4].
While the Writings deny that any of our freely made moral
decisions are pre-destined or fated, they do recognize that some

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
aspects of our lives and of nature will inevitably happen, i.e. are
fated. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that Fate is of two kinds: one is decreed,
and the other is conditional or impending [SAQ 283]. “Decreed fate”
refers to the processes of the natural world such as a lamp in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s example, being extinguished when the oil is finished.
Elsewhere, he cites the example of the sun and its effects on the earth
[SWAB 198]. But there are countless other examples decreed fate — the
inevitability of aging, the motions of the planets, the moon’s
gravitational effects on the sea and the water’s unique trait of
expanding when frozen. This kind of fate or decrees or laws of nature
cannot be changed. Of course, as the creator of the laws of nature,
God is ultimately in control of these natural processes which is why
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “will is the active force” [SWAB 198]  that
commands them. By way of contrast, “conditional fate” is changeable
by appropriate; it refers to the vicissitudes that we can foresee and
prepare for such as covering the lamp before a high wind. By means
of free will we can guard against conditional events, i.e. those that
may or may not happen.
From these examples, it appears that predestination and fate apply
to the natural and physical world but not to the spiritual world, i.e.
to the “rational soul” and mind. Our body is fated to die but our but
our souls and can even decide on actions that turn nature’s laws
against itself to do the seemingly impossible — such as fly, travel
underwater, replace hearts, and invent new elements [PT 127]. (This
should remind us that actions impossible from the view point of one
level of reality and not necessarily impossible when viewed from a
higher perspective.)
Bahá’u’lláh, of course, says the same as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá but adds an
absolutely essential codicil. He says that
decrees as related to fate and predestination, are of two
kinds. Both are to be obeyed and accepted. The one is
irrevocable, the other is, as termed by men, impending. To
the former all must unreservedly submit, inasmuch as it is
fixed and settled. God, however, is able to alter or repeal it.
As the harm that must result from such a change will be
greater than if the decree had remained unaltered, all,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
therefore, should willingly acquiesce in what God hath willed
and confidently abide by the same. [GWB 132, emphasis added]
“Impending” fate is what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls “conditional” (and
“impending”) fate” which may be avoided if appropriate action is
taken but “irrevocable” decrees cannot be changed. Indeed, according
to Bahá’u’lláh, they should not be changed and humans must accept
them. He appears to be offering comfort for the death of a loved
one. Removing death per se — or the death of the loved one — from
the natural order would indeed, as He says, create an enormous and
unjustifiable upheaval in nature. The reason is clear: changing them
would cause harmful disorder in creation. For example, few people if
any are happy about the death of a parent but if God uses his power
to reverse the “decreed” fate of death, the “harm” on the cosmic
order will be greater than any good resulting from reversing the law(s)
of nature. Most obviously, countless other beings would be denied
the opportunity for existence. The entire inter-connected cosmic
order would fall apart and replace order with chaos.
For all beings are linked together like a chain; and mutual aid,
assistance, and interaction are among their intrinsic
properties and are the cause of their formation, development,
and growth. It is established through numerous proofs and
arguments that every single thing has an effect and influence
upon every other, either independently or through a causal
chain. [SAQ 205]
Because of this interconnection of all things, humans should not ask
that God should exempt them from “alter[ing] or repeal[ing]” His
“decrees.” In other words, we must evaluate whether or not the
negation of natural law by God’s intervention is justifiable given the
other — potentially harmful — results such interventions will cause.
A major critique of the Bahá’í philosophy of free will — which
applies to religions such as Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and
Buddhism as well — concerns divine sabotage of the exercise of free
will. In effect, humans are obligated to make the right ‘choice’ or
face negative consequences after death. It is argued that there is no
real choice, i.e. coercion when one choice has positive consequences
while the other has negative consequences. We are, in effect, coerced

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
into one choice and so there is only the appearance of freedom.
Plainly put, the promise of freedom is fraudulent.
There are at least three problems with this argument. First, there is
the assumption that genuine free should require the same outcomes
for whatever choices we make. This assumption is odd because
nowhere else in life is there such an expectation because it violates
the principle of cause and effect. The choice to own a store is not the
same as the choice to rob it. Why would we expect different causes
to lead to the same effects? Why should the life-choices made by
Josef Mengele lead to the same outcome as the choices made by
Mother Teresa? The notion of equivalent outcomes implicitly
involves injustice to those who have followed the path laid out by the
Manifestations.
Second, this critique is based on a misunderstanding of the nature
of the Abhá Kingdom in which there is no punishment but rather a
continued growth on the basis of one’s choices in life. Thus, the
Bahá’í Writings ensure that all people get the afterlife they have
chosen for themselves. After they have died, “all men shall, after their
physical death, estimate the worth of their deeds, and realize all that
their hands have wrought” [GWB 169]. They will judge themselves and
make spiritual progress in keeping with their self-estimation of their
choices. Those who choose to ignore or deny God and His
Manifestations will have an after-life that reflects the choices they
have made for themselves. However, all will make progress in the
kind
of
existence
they
have
chosen
for
themselves.
The
Manifestations and Prophets exist to educate humanity, that “this
lump of coal may become a diamond” [SAQ 273]. This means that
there is spiritual progress in each case in the afterlife on the basis of
one’s character. It will not be the same for everyone.
In other words, according to the Writings, there is no punishment
in the sense of a wilful infliction of retributive pain but rather
spiritual progress from whatever low or high level of character
development we have attained by our choices. In short, everyone
attains the level which they have worked for, i.e. in effect, desired.
Consequently, there is no coercion since those who freely chose to
live without awareness of God get their wish. From their perspective,
there is nothing deficient or unworthy about their condition,
although there may be times of awareness of the absence of the divine

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
since such an awareness and longing is an innate part of human nature
[PT 73]. However, as they ignored these pangs during life, they will
ignore them in the future.
The last critique of free will we shall consider here is the argument
that humankind’s free will is incompatible with God’s omnipotence.
It is argued that if God has all power, then, ultimately, the creatures
can have none — and this includes the power of free will. This
argument ignores the fact that while nothing external to God can
limit God’s power, God Himself can limit the expression of His
power. Indeed, He very clearly does so by bestowing free will on
mankind while withholding it from all other beings. By making free
will an inherent part of universal human nature, God chooses to
restrain His own power and allows humans to act for themselves not
vis-à-vis our bodies but in ethical choices, in the arts and the
sciences, in intellectual and creative pursuits and above all in spiritual
affairs.
Part 8: Applying Free Will in Society
In addition to individuals, free will and freedom are also vitally
important for Bahá’í social philosophy. After all, since all people
have free will, it is necessary to have basic principles and guidelines
to manage free will among millions of individuals. Without such
guidelines, life in cities and even small towns will easily become
impossible. The first principle of these guidelines is moderation.
The principle of moderation requires that free will, agency and
social freedom are not appraised strictly for their own sake but rather
in the context of other values and for their contribution to
mankind’s spiritual and material progress. The Universal House of
Justice writes,
In his summary of significant Bahá’í teachings, Shoghi
Effendi wrote that Bahá’u’lláh “inculcates the principle of
'moderation in all things'; declares that whatsoever, be it
'liberty, civilization and the like', 'passeth beyond the limits
of moderation' must 'exercise a pernicious influence upon
men'.”69

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
Furthermore, it asks,
Should liberty be as free as is supposed in contemporary
Western thought? Where does freedom limit our possibilities
for progress, and where do limits free us to thrive? What are
the limits to the expansion of freedom? For so fluid and
elastic are its qualities of application and expression that the
concept of freedom in any given situation is likely to assume
a different latitude from one mind to another; these qualities
are, alas, susceptible to the employment alike of good and
evil. Is it any wonder, then, that Bahá’u’lláh exhorts us to
submission to the will of God?70
With these provocative questions, the Universal House of Justice
asks us to adopt a reflective, analytical and critical attitude towards
the theory and practice of freedom. Too often, these questions and
others like them, are not even asked and the result is inadequate
analysis, confusion and contradiction.
From a Bahá’í perspective, incomplete and inadequate analysis is a
fault of every theory of freedom that does not take account of
mankind’s spiritual nature as well as the short and long term
consequences of any proposed freedom. For example, we observe
increasing social pressure to legalize certain mind-altering drugs for
recreational use even though their long-term effects are not known.
Such ‘freedom’ “limits our possibilities for progress” and that
prohibitions in fact provide more freedom to actualize our spiritual,
intellectual and creative potentials. In other words, all freedoms are
not necessarily beneficial for individuals and societies and, not all
restrictions are necessarily harmful.
Critical analyses of freedom are also necessary because concepts
of freedom evolve:
The models [of freedom] of the old world order blur vision
of that which must be perceived; for these models were, in
many instances, conceived in rebellion and retain the
characteristics of the revolutions peculiar to an adolescent,
albeit necessary, period in the evolution of human society.
The very philosophies which have provided the intellectual
content of such revolutions — Hobbes, Locke, Jefferson,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Mill, come readily to mind — were inspired by protest against
the oppressive conditions which revolutions were intended to
remedy.71
In this message, the Universal House of Justice presents the idea that
because of former historical circumstances, former philosophies of
freedom may no longer be fully appropriate in the new Bahá’í world
order. Above all, global inter-connectedness has changed the world
and this requires newly re-formulated concepts of freedom, especially
in regards to balancing freedom with other societal values. In
recognizing the significance of this change in the world situation the
Writings take an evolutionary approach to individual free will and
societal freedom.
The Bahá’í approach to free will and societal freedom is echoed
Isaiah Berlin, one of the foremost political thinkers of the 20th
Century. He makes it clear that “Liberty is not the only goal of
men.”72 He also recognizes that sometimes “the freedom of some
must at times be curtailed to secure the freedom of others.”73 He
adds,
The extent of a man’s, or a people’s, liberty to choose to live
as he or they desire must be weighed against the claims of
other values, of which equality, or justice, or happiness, or
security, or public order are perhaps the most obvious
examples.74
Like the Bahá’í Writings, Berlin recognizes that freedom cannot be an
end-in-itself that consistently overrides all other values but rather
must play its role among other necessary values. In this regard, we
might think of society as a juggler keeping various values in motion
to create the whole ‘performance.’ Maximum freedom for everyone is
beyond human capabilities.
From the foregoing discussion it is clear that the Writings
advocate what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls “moderate freedom,” saying,
Similarly, with regard to the peoples who clamour for
freedom: the moderate freedom which guarantees the welfare
of the world of mankind and maintains and preserves the

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
universal relationships, is found in its fullest power and
extension in the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. [SWAB 305, PUP 52]
Nowhere is this teaching of “moderate freedom” — including freedom
of speech — more clear than in Bahá’u’lláh’s admonitions about the
limits of freedom or, as He calls it, “liberty.” His essential message is
that individual free will and social liberty have must have limits
placed on them; they cannot be allowed to be their own standard and
justification of action. He states,
Consider the pettiness of men's minds. They ask for that
which injureth them, and cast away the thing that profiteth
them. They are, indeed, of those that are far astray. We find
some men desiring liberty, and priding themselves therein.
Such men are in the depths of ignorance. [GWB 335, emphasis
added]
Bahá’u’lláh makes it clear that individual freedom or liberty is not an
unalloyed good in itself. Those who think it is an unqualified good
under any circumstances are “far astray” i.e. they misunderstand their
own nature and what benefits it, and they misunderstand the nature
and good of society. In our view, Bahá’u’lláh calls such demands for
liberty “pettiness” because it represents short-term thinking with
immediate pleasure or convenience blinding us to its long-term
destructive effects. For example, since the 1960s drug use has grown
from immediate personal pleasure into a massive multi-dimensional
societal problem for which there are no easy solutions.75
Bahá’u’lláh adds,
Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the
animal. That which beseemeth man is submission unto such
restraints as will protect him from his own ignorance . . .
Liberty causeth man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and
to infringe on the dignity of his station. It debaseth him to
the level of extreme depravity and wickedness . . . Regard
men as a flock of sheep that need a shepherd for their
protection. [GWB 335]
This teaching about liberty shows two aspects of the Bahá’í
philosophy of freedom. The first is that an excess of liberty often

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
allows mankind’s lowest animal features to manifest themselves and
thereby allows mankind to degrade its noble station in the created
world. We become unworthy of ourselves. Such freedom not only
threatens individual well-being but also the well-being of society
which can easily be undermined by all kinds of conflicting causes
demanding ever more ‘freedom.’ Social life becomes increasingly
anarchical and is in danger of becoming — in Hobbes’ memorable
phrase — a war of all against all. Indeed, just as the Bahá’í Writings
teach that the Manifestations are necessary to lift mankind out of its
animal condition, so Thomas Hobbes states that
it is manifest that during the time men live without a
common Power to keep them all in awe, they are in the
condition of awe; and such a warre as is of every man against
every man . . . the nature of War, consisteth not [only] in
actual fighting; but in the known disposition thereto, during
all this time there is no assurance to the contrary.76
The Bahá’í Writings have a similar view, about too much freedom for
mankind’s animal nature, about the war of all against all and about
war being not only battle but the continuous disposition to being
willing for battle. One of the ultimate goals of Bahá’u’lláh’s
dispensation is evolve mankind away from this willingness.
Bahá’u’lláh then goes on to declare that “Liberty must, in the end,
lead to sedition, whose flames none can quench” [GWB 335]. Liberty,
by which He seems to mean unrestrained liberty is seditious insofar as
absolutely unrestrained speech or conduct undermines legitimately
established systems of government, law and social order. He does not
approve of sedition because undermining government and social
order often unleashes as much misery as it was intended to cure. In
part, this is because of mankind’s animal nature which seeks to satisfy
its desires at the expense of everyone else. Without order, life soon
becomes a struggle of all against all and society begins to fragment.
This, in turn, weakens the quality of life for every individual.
In contrast to these excesses of liberty, Bahá’u’lláh states that
True liberty consisteth in man's submission unto My
commandments, little as ye know it. Were men to observe
that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
of Revelation, they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect
liberty. Happy is the man that hath apprehended the Purpose
of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His
Will, that pervadeth all created things. Say: The liberty that
profiteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete
servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth. Whoso hath tasted of
its sweetness will refuse to barter it for all the dominion of
earth and heaven. [GWB 335]
This passage shows that “true freedom” is not so much based on the
possession of individual free will but is also acquired by personal
effort to “awaken spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] and to recognize
the need for submission to God. In other words, free will is a divine
gift given along with the rational soul but its full development
depends on our struggles to free ourselves from enslavement to our
lower animal nature and the resulting individual and collective
“intellectual maladies” [PUP 205] that distort our thinking and
behavior. The capacity for free will and freedom is given, but
keeping it alive and pure depends on us. It can be lost.
The second lesson we learn about liberty is that humans need
protection from not just from enemies but all too frequently, from
“[their] own ignorance” i.e. from themselves. Therefore, they need
the guidance of the Manifestations of God. While some, such as most
humanists, may regard this as an example of divine paternalism,
others will point to history as illustrating the need for such guidance.
While ‘paternalism’ has negative connotations for many, we must
recognize not all paternalisms are the same. While in most cases
paternalistic rule is practiced for the interests and advantages of the
rulers, this is not so in the case of God Who has no interests and
personal advantages to pursue. In His essence, God lacks nothing,
and, therefore has nothing to gain. His rule over mankind is
motivated by His love and the communicative nature of His love
which desires the creation and well-being of man [HW Arabic #3].
Unlike Thomas Hobbes, the Bahá’í Writings reject tyranny as a
way to restore and/or maintain social unity and order they agree that
an excess of freedom can lead to social disharmony, fragmentation
and disorder in the struggle of all against all. Bahá’u’lláh
demonstrates His opposition to dictatorship in His declaration “It ill

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
beseemeth the station of man to commit tyranny; rather it behoveth
him to observe equity and be attired with the raiment of justice
under all conditions” [TB 170]. For both the tyrant and the oppressed,
tyranny violates mankind’s lofty station as the acme of the created
world [SAQ 50:4]. It also suppresses the progressive development of
humanity’s divinely bestowed capacity for justice, reason, good will,
honesty and trustworthiness. This damages and distorts the
actualization of human nature in both the rulers and the ruled. This
offends against God’s law which wants us to actualize our inherent
capacities.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá reinforces the rejection of tyranny in his statement
that if a person
direct his anger and wrath against the bloodthirsty tyrants
who are like ferocious beasts, this too would be most
praiseworthy. But should he display these qualities under
other conditions, this would be deserving of blame. [SAQ
57:10 p. 249]
In other words, he approves of opposition to tyranny and, by
implication, rejects a passive attitude towards “bloodthirsty tyrants.”
His word choice displays the strength of his feelings on this point:
“anger,” “wrath,” “ferocious beasts” and “most praiseworthy.”
However, this statement does not touch on the means of such
opposition which must conform to certain guidelines.
Expressions of free will must also be moderated by considerations
of mankind’s spiritual nature which requires us to act in accordance
with equity, good will, rationality, humility and kindness among other
virtues. Action or speech that does not harmonize with these or other
spiritual virtues should be avoided. When humans forget their
essentially spiritual nature and speak and act against it, individuals
and societies suffer. For example, there are those like John Stuart
Mill, who view free will as unassailable under virtually any
circumstances and who would defend the right to choose drug
addiction and prostitution as a way of life. He does not approve of
them, but, in his lack of spiritual understanding, finds such choices
are a legitimate use of free will. Another immoderate use of free will
can be seen in destructive and violent public demonstrations that
prevent others from going about their lawful business, and go from

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
protesting which is a right of free speech to disrupting which is not.
In regards to excesses of free will in speech, “Human utterance is an
essence which aspireth to exert its influence and needeth moderation”
[TB 143]. In our understanding, this admonition should not be
interpreted as support for essentially untruthful, mealy-mouthed and
euphemistic speech which hinders and distorts communication and
understanding but rather that speech should avoid bombast, ad
hominems, and excessive rhetoric.
As we have shown, there are two distinct but logically related
aspects of freedom, one focusing on the sources of individual free
will which is the foundation of societal freedom and the other
focussing on how the teachings on individual free will can be applied
in society and correlated with other values and the practical
necessities of ensuring the common good. Society is where the issue
of freedom gets complicated or ‘messy’ because other values and
necessities besides freedom have to be taken into consideration. Most
notable among these is the concept of the ‘common good’ which
limits the scope of individual action.
Perhaps the most basic feature of the Bahá’í philosophy of
freedom is that it sees “man’s freedom in his conformity to an order
of being incomparably greater than himself.”77 In other words, in
thinking about freedom it is necessary to recall that mankind exists in
a universe that is both spiritual and physical, is teleological and
evolutionary and is a divine creation in which mankind is the highest
form of life. We must also remember that mankind itself is a
teleological being whose goal is to actualize not only its physical but
above all its spiritual potentials during earthly existence in
preparation for continued evolution after death. This has numerous
implications. First, it means that individual free will and freedom
exist to fulfill the goal of actualization of mankind’s highest
capacities; they have an inherent purpose and are not intended to
uncritically enable the pursuit of any goal whatever. Second, this
means there exists an objective standard i.e. human nature, by which
we can evaluate our actions vis-à-vis self-actualization. Our
teleological nature ‘expects’ us to achieve certain things and if we do
not. We cannot help but distort our nature. Third, vis-à-vis personal
free will and societal freedom, this means that only looking at the
physical consequences of freedom is insufficient to form a complete

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
and accurate assessment. For example, anti-addiction strategies must
not only include the physical but also the psychological and spiritual
well-being of the addict. This includes the welfare of his/her soul
through the adoption of world-views more aligned with the nature of
the soul.
The existence of human nature with specific capacities suggest
that a ‘common good’ can be defined for human societies which,
after all, are made up of individuals. In other words, on the basis of
our understanding of what humans are, what they can be and were
intended to be, it is possible to identify — in broad terms — the
attributes required for a society and its members to thrive, to “be all
[we] can be.” The Bahá’í concept of the common good is based on
the Bahá’í philosophy of human nature which is based on two
principles. The first is that “Man is, in reality, a spiritual being, and
only when he lives in the spirit is he truly happy. This spiritual
longing and perception belongs to all men alike” [PT 73, emphasis
added]. The second is that the “rational soul” [SAQ 241] is what
“distinguishes man from the animal” [SAQ 241]. Virtually everything
we can say about personal free will and societal freedom must be in
harmony with the Bahá’í philosophy of human nature. Human nature
and, therefore, the common good are universal to i.e. true of all
human beings in the past, present and future.78 These principles
provide a set of specific criteria by which to determine what is a valid
concept of free will and societal freedom. For example, it can never
be for the common good to suppress individual or collective
spirituality — as was programmatically done in virtually all
Communist countries — because this violates and necessarily distorts
human nature and inevitably hurts everyone.
Part 9: Freedom of Expression
The Bahá’í Writings view freedom as an instrumental value and
not as an end-in-itself; nor is it the only value we need to take into
consideration. However, it is instrumental as well as essential insofar
as individual free will and societal freedom are necessary for human
advancement. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes this clear when he asserts that
When freedom of conscience, liberty of thought and right of
speech prevail — that is to say, when every man according to

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
his own idealization may give expression to his beliefs —
development and growth are inevitable. [PUP 197]
Since “development and growth” of mankind are a task assigned to all
people by Bahá’u’lláh, the means to that development cannot help
but be essential for mankind. Without freedom of thought and
speech we would be unable to obey Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration that “All
men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization” [GWB 214]. Freedom may be instrumental value but it is,
nonetheless, essential insofar as it is necessary to achieve the
advancement of both individuals and civilizations.
Further emphasizing the importance of freedom of expression,
Shoghi Effendi adds,
Let us also remember that at the very root of the Cause lies
the principle of the undoubted right of the individual to self-
expression, his freedom to declare his conscience and set
forth his views. [BA 63-64]
Without consultation and debates, without free exploration of ideas,
the independent investigation of truth is obstructed and with it,
human progress. The “freedom to declare his conscience and set forth
his views,” is necessary to make the process of consultation effective
as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement makes clear:
The members thereof must take counsel together in such wise
that no occasion for ill-feeling or discord may arise. This can
be attained when every member expresseth with absolute
freedom his own opinion and setteth forth his argument.
Should anyone oppose, he must on no account feel hurt for
not until matters are fully discussed can the right way be
revealed. The shining spark of truth cometh forth only after
the clash of differing opinions. [SWAB 87, emphasis added]
Especially noteworthy in this pronouncement is the recognition that
clashes of opinion are a normal and healthy part of the consultation
process. Indeed, he makes “the clash of differing opinions” a pre-
condition for discovery of the truth. That is inevitable when people
present their true, sincerely held opinions on serious issues —
although this does not excuse such rudeness as ad hominem attacks,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
sarcasm and monopolizing discussions. Furthermore, this declaration
implies that holding back one’s opinion for the sake of ‘peace’ is not
necessarily a virtue because it deprives the consultation process of a
necessary opinion. Equally significant is that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá forbids
hurt feelings over differences of opinion. In consultation, there are
no ‘safe spaces’ from having one’s viewpoints challenged or hearing
diverse opinions. We are expected to at least listen to a variety of
opinions and are implicitly forbidden to use hurt feelings as leverage
to limit the discussion. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s encouragement of freedom of
speech in consultation becomes especially significant when we realize
that consultation is not only for LSAs but also for all Bahá’ís, and
eventually for the entire world. The clear implication is that freedom
of speech is a universal value meant for all nations and cultures.
One of the key features of the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom
concerns the means by which the teachings about freedom are
applied. The manner in which rules are implemented are as essential as
the rules themselves.79 On the issue of freedom, Shoghi Effendi makes
clear that the Bahá’í methods are essentially spiritual, that they rely
on consultation and are aimed at the growth of insight and
understanding:
The unfettered freedom of the individual should be tempered
with mutual consultation and sacrifice, and the spirit of
initiative and enterprise should be reinforced by a deeper
realization of the supreme necessity for concerted action and
a fuller devotion to the common weal.80
Shoghi Effendi adds,
at the very root of the Cause lies the principle of the
undoubted right of the individual to self-expression, his
freedom to declare his conscience and set forth his views . . .
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause of God
is not dictatorial authority but humble fellowship, not
arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank and loving
consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of a true Bahá’í can
hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and justice, of
freedom and submission, of the sanctity of the right of the
individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion and

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
prudence on the one hand, and fellowship, candor, and
courage on the other. [BA 63-64]
The first part of this declaration vigorously re-asserts the
fundamental importance of freedom of thought and expression and
firmly rejects “dictatorial authority” and “arbitrary power” as
counter-balances or moderators of free speech. That goal must be
achieved by consultation.
The second part of Shoghi Effendi’s guidance points out the need
to “reconcile” or balance freedom and “submission,” or restraint for
the personal and common good. An important characteristic of the
Bahá’í revelation is that such reconciliation is to be achieved by
consultation not by diktat, and by growth in understanding the
mission of the Bahá’í Faith. These methods are completely
incompatible with any kind of repressive rule. While these guidelines
must be taken into consideration, it is also important to recall the
decision of when and how to apply these principles rest with the
individual.
The third part of Shoghi Effendi’s statement refers to the
“undoubted right of the individual to self-expression.” In other
words, free expression is a right, i.e. an entitlement that does not
have to be earned but is given by virtue of being human. While it is
clear that the principle of moderation also applies here, it is equally
evident that by making “self-expression” an “undoubted right” gives
self-expression priority, i.e. this right is the basis to which
moderation is applied as a modifier is applied to a subject. In the
philosophical language of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “self-expression” is the
substance and “moderation’ is the accident. Our purpose in pointing
this out is to illustrate once again, as we have with consultation, that
the Writings are strongly inclined towards individual freedom and
that fears for individual rights in the new world order are groundless.
This also applies to the review provision which is sometimes
misrepresented as an abrogation of free speech. In reality, it is
nothing more than an insistence on accuracy of information about
the Bahá’í Faith which is to say, nothing that a responsible editor or
publisher’s fact checker would not do.
The Writings provide various guidelines for deciding when and
when not to limit freedom of expression. The principle of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
moderation seen in Bahá’u’lláh’s Lawh-i-Ittihad which points out a
specific limitation to free speech:
For example, consider that if two of the chosen ones of God
should come to a town and should speak about the same
matter and disagree, this would be the cause of disunity. It
would cause them and those around them to be deprived and
debarred from the bounties of unity.81
In a teaching situation, giving precedence to unity is a matter of
common sense; this is not a situation where it is appropriate to
advocate for one’s own viewpoints and confuse the seekers about the
teachings. However, it is important not to over-generalize this
specific example and remember that this example does not forbid
having differing opinions or even expressing them — in other
situations. In our understanding, there is no warrant for applying
what is true of free speech in teaching situations to all other kinds of
situations such as debates, the independent investigation of truth and
consultation. Doing so would lose the moderation the Writings
require. Furthermore, in our understanding, the rights of free speech
and the requirements for unity are balanced insofar as individuals are
entitled to speak their minds freely — as guaranteed by Shoghi
Effendi [BA 63-64] — but not in a manner that disunifies the
community, e.g. by persistent harassing, encouraging factions and
igniting inter-personal friction. Such behaviors are, in effect, a kind
of campaigning within the community and a sort of intellectual
politicking which may even distract from the goals of the Faith.
By now it is clear that in the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom, and
especially freedom of speech, there is no basis for imposing
“dictatorial authority” over its adherents let alone non-Bahá’ís. Since
“the keynote of the Cause of God” [BA 63-64] is consultation, any
arbitrary silencing of free speech is simply incompatible with the
principles of the Bahá’í Faith. That is why the Universal House of
Justice says, “Thus there is a balance of freedom between the
institution, whether national or local, and the individuals who sustain
its existence.”82
Requiring moderation of speech helps build the capacity for self-
critique and the ability to evaluate whether or not our ideas vis-à-vis
worthiness of utterance. The Universal House of Justice states,

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
Bahá’u’lláh's assertions clearly call for an examination of
current assumptions. Should liberty be as free as is supposed
in contemporary Western thought? Where does freedom limit
our possibilities for progress, and where do limits free us to
thrive? What are the limits to the expansion of freedom? For
so fluid and elastic are its qualities of application and
expression that the concept of freedom in any given situation
is likely to assume a different latitude from one mind to
another; these qualities are, alas, susceptible to the
employment alike of good and evil. Is it any wonder, then,
that Bahá’u’lláh exhorts us to submission to the will of
God?83
Without a practiced capacity for self-critique, i.e. investigating
the truth for oneself, human thought can easily go awry as we become
intellectually lazy — and careless — enough to “believe everything we
think.”84 That is a certain way to mislead ourselves. Furthermore,
Bahá’u’lláh points out that we must be self-aware, i.e. self-critical in
regards to occasions on which to speak:
Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed, nor can
everything that he can disclose be regarded as timely, nor can
every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity
of those who hear it. [GWB 175]
However, it is important to note that this is a guideline for us to
consider and not a blunt instrument for suppressing speech we
disagree with. It is the individual who must assess the appropriateness
of the content, the time and the audience. It cannot be otherwise
since it is individuals who usually find themselves in the situations in
which these guidelines must be applied.
Part 10: Three Types of Freedom

At this point, we shall pause to draw some general conclusions
about the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom. Mortimer Adler points out,
there are basically three types of freedom.85 The first is
“circumstantial freedom” which is free will without external coercion
either by individuals, society, legal or economic factors or accidental

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
external circumstances such as blizzards or car accidents. The
Universal House of Justice points out that
A true reading of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh leaves no
doubt as to the high importance of these freedoms to
constructive social processes. Consider, for instance,
Bahá’u’lláh's proclamation to the kings and rulers. Can it not
be deduced from this alone that attainment of freedom is a
significant purpose of His Revelation? His denunciations of
tyranny and His urgent appeals on behalf of the oppressed
provide unmistakable proof. But does not the freedom
foreshadowed by His Revelation imply nobler, ampler
manifestations of human achievement? Does it not indicate
an organic relationship between the internal and external
realities of man such as has not yet been attained?86
This passage makes clear that external freedom from tyrannical
governments or tyrannical economic practices and systems closely
connected. It is, for example, impossible to pursue the independent
investigation of truth under a tyranny like Stalin’s where all aspects
of private and public life were under surveillance and liable for harsh
punishment. Similarly, it is impossible for a society to make progress
if a good education is limited to the wealthy and resistance is
punished by economic deprivation. “[C]onstructive social processes,”
i.e. societies intent on making progress must recognize the “high
importance” of providing freedoms that are conducive to external as
well as internal or spiritual freedoms for mankind.
However, while external circumstantial freedom is necessary for
progress at the social level, we must not forget that individuals have
“rational souls” that are not entirely subservient to external
circumstances. As already noted, Bahá’u’lláh says that we cannot
blame others i.e. external circumstances, for our disbelief in God
[GWB 143] and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says were are always free to make a
moral decision, meaning, thereby, that moral decisions are always
possible [SAQ 287] — though not easy. Humanity’s spiritual nature
provides
some
freedom
from
external
circumstances.
A
contemporary example of such moral independence is the positive
behavior of Bahá’ís in Iranian captivity. A historical example are
those who risked their lives to save Jews from the Nazis or even those

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
who simply kept silent about the presence of a Jew. Thus, while
positive external circumstances are necessary for societal freedom,
they are not necessary in all cases.
The second type of freedom is “natural freedom,” i.e. freedom
“with which all men are innately or inherently endowed.”87 As
previously shown, this kind of freedom is an aspect of the “rational
soul” which enables mankind to free itself — at least partially — from
domination by the natural world. “Natural freedom” is potential and,
therefore, humans must consciously and willfully actualize it by their
choices. The belief that “natural freedom” is universal is foundational
to at least four Bahá’í teachings: (1) the essential unity of humankind
vis-à-vis capacities and potentials; (2) the core ethics or “eternal
verities” [PDC 13] passed on by successive Manifestations; (3)
progressive revelation and the individual and societal choices it
requires; (4) the eventual unification of mankind in a federal
commonwealth in which
All men will adhere to one religion, will have one common
faith, will be blended into one race and become a single
people. All will dwell in one common fatherland, which is the
planet itself. [SAQ 75]
From this it is clear that a significant number of signature beliefs of
the Bahá’í Faith are closely associated with the concept of “natural
freedom.” It is an aspect of the “rational soul” which is common to
all mankind at all times and under all conditions.
The third type of freedom is “acquired freedom”88 which according
to Adler,
depends upon a change or development in human beings
whereby they have a state of mind or character or personality
which differentiate them from other men . . . these
differences represent . . . a superior condition.89
The Bahá’í Writings agree that “acquired freedom” comes through
our own freely willed efforts and represents a state of being superior
to immersion in our animal nature. . The transcendental spiritual
freedoms must be earned not by choosing to will as we desire90 but by
choosing to will as we ought91, i.e. to choose the challenges of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
actualizing our spiritual and intellectual potentials as innately given
in our human nature by God. We follow the divine law, not our
preferences. This transcendence of nature — especially, our animal
nature — opens up new possibilities or freedoms for our evolution as
human beings. In acquired freedom we realize our specifically human
potentials. In contrast, we have very limited and often no control
over “circumstantial freedom,” i.e. the external circumstances that
contextualize our use of free will. Moreover, we have no control
whatever over “natural freedom” or free will with which all humans
are endowed by God. This “natural freedom” is not only a divine gift
but is also an obligation to use and use wisely.
“Acquired freedom” has two important implications. The first is
the necessity of accepting the fact that while all humans have the
capacity to acquire freedoms, not all of them choose to do so.
Instead, to their own detriment in this world and the next, and to the
detriment of society, some choose to remain captives of the material
world and of their animal natures and to reject the challenges of
actualizing their full range of potentials. They are self-enslaved. For
this reason acquired freedom is beyond the grasp of those who lack
morality and good will. To obtain it, they must advance to a higher
moral state. However — and this is essential — the tragic refusal to
actualize cannot be met with coercion of any kind; true freedom is
not just the opportunity to succeed but also the opportunity to fail.
This tragedy requires a special spiritual discipline from us, namely,
accepting this choice and realizing that nothing in the Writings
justifies coercing individuals on these matters. Even in this we must
accept their right to do as they will.
Part 11: Freedom and Coercion
Prohibiting coercion even when people are damaging their own
well-being is the Bahá’í answer to the long-debated question of
whether humans can be forced to be free. Rousseau, for example,
maintains that obedience to the “general will” for the common good
is what makes us free; consequently, by being coerced to think and
act according to the “general will” we can be forced to be free.
Communists make the same claim. Freedom means accepting material
and historical necessity which is represented by the will of the
Communist Party. For this reason when coercion is used it is being

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
used to help us be free. The secret police are agents of freedom! The
Bahá’í Writings reject such “intellectual maladies” [PUP 204] as
essentially dishonest. On this point, the Writings agree with John
Stuart Mill who also rejects coercing people to pursue their own
advantage. Paternalistic pressure may compel outward compliance
but it cannot create genuine willingness and commitment. Indeed,
doing so is nothing less than an attempt to reduce a human into a
will-less robot, and, thereby, is an attack on God’s given human
nature.
Broadly speaking the Bahá’í view opposes paternalistic impositions
on free will: the Universal House of Justice states that because
“Every human being is ultimately responsible to God . . . conscience
is never to be coerced, whether by other individuals or
institutions.”92 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá — and the Universal House of Justice —
prefer to lead by pointing out the way and letting personal spiritual
understanding and growth actualize the necessary changes. This
applies even to large scale issues of needed economic reform:
The fundamentals of the whole economic condition are
divine in nature and are associated with the world of the
heart and spirit . . . The Bahá’ís will bring about this
improvement and betterment but not through sedition and
appeal to physical force — not through warfare, but welfare.
Hearts must be so cemented together, love must become so
dominant that the rich shall most willingly extend assistance
to the poor and take steps to establish these economic
adjustments permanently. If it is accomplished in this way, it
will be most praiseworthy because then it will be for the sake
of God and in the pathway of His service. [PUP 238]
Two points stand out here. First, there is no ‘techno-fix’ to
mankind’s economic problems, no set of rules that we can manipulate
to make plans to diminish extreme income inequality or remedy
poverty. The reason why is clear (although largely ignored): people,
their values, decisions, ambitions, goals and good will are the basis of
economics. No fundamental economic improvement can be expected
as long as individuals, societies and researchers operate in a purely
materialistic framework which leave out the ‘human factors.’ Real
economic change requires real change in people. Second, paternalism,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
i.e. external compulsion will not create deep psycho-spiritual changes
needed for future material and spiritual evolution. Economic changes
must come willingly. He re-emphasizes this, saying,
among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is voluntary sharing of
one's property with others among mankind. This voluntary
sharing is greater than equality, and consists in this, that man
should not prefer himself to others, but rather should
sacrifice his life and property for others. But this should not
be introduced by coercion so that it becomes a law and man
is compelled to follow it. Nay, rather, man should voluntarily
and of his own choice sacrifice his property and life for
others, and spend willingly for the poor, just as is done in
Persia among the Bahá’ís. [SWAB 302]
In other words, diminishing the gap between extreme wealth and
poverty will work better by the insight and good will gained from
“acquired freedoms” of spiritual development than by paternalistic
compulsion. Obviously, if economic reforms come from willing inner
commitment, there will be fewer people trying manipulate laws and
systems to their own advantage. Soviet Russia is a telling example.
Legally, all people were economically equal but in truth it sis not take
long for the nobility and wealthy classes to be replaced by countless
party member commissars, bureaucrats and managers93 who
accumulated enormous personal wealth. This is why the Writings
recommend freely willed conviction over compulsion.
11.1: Two Concepts of Liberty
One of the most influential theories in the last seventy years is
Isaiah Berlin’s “Two Concepts of Liberty” (1958). Berlin’s wide-
ranging essay is famous for clearly identifying and naming “negative
freedom94 which is freedom from deliberate external interference by
individuals and/or governments and “positive freedom” which the
capacity to actualize our free will. The first is freedom from and the
latter is freedom for; the first refers to external coercion and the
second to the capacity and opportunity to attain our goals.
As we have just demonstrated, generally, the Bahá’í Writings
balance negative and positive liberties. As shown above, the Writings

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
display strong preferences towards negative liberty, i.e. non-
interference in others’ lives to the greatest degree feasible. Their
condemnation of tyranny; the preference for spiritual growth over
compulsion both in this world and the next; especially their rejection
of compulsion in religion; the emphasis on balancing unity and
diversity; the independent investigation of truth; the equality of men
and women; and the prohibition of compulsion in fund raising
illustrate this basic preference for abolishing and/or not imposing
restrictions and interfering in people’s lives.
Positive freedom concerns what we are free for. Nigel Warburton
points out that just because no one is preventing you from doing
something, it does not follow that you
are genuinely free. Positive freedom is a matter of achieving
your potential, not just having potential.95
For example, we may be free to paint without any external
interference but we are not really free to do so if we lack the money
to buy paint.96 Practical freedom requires not just capacity but also
genuine opportunity. However, these opportunities do not only
come from the outside — they also come from within. As Isaiah Berlin
points out, we are not free if we are slaves to our physical nature, to
extreme gullibility or outbursts of temper. “The positive conception
of freedom as self-mastery with its suggestion of man divided against
himself”97 and a higher self often identified with reason or a higher
self98 leads into dangerous waters. This, according to Berlin, is the
latent dictatorial potential in positive freedom, i.e. the temptation to
compel others to be free by forcing them to develop their ‘higher’
natures. He approvingly quotes Kant’s statement, “Paternalism is the
greatest despotism imaginable.”99
Paternalism is despotic not because it is more oppressive than
naked, brutal, unenlightened tyranny . . . but because it is an
insult to my conception of myself as a human being
determined to make my own life.100
This is precisely is what the Bahá’í Writings seek to avoid because
paternalism holds back individual and societal evolution in spiritual

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
growth and, thereby, our arrival at the unification of mankind.
Infantalization does not foster maturity.
Notwithstanding the inclination towards negative freedom, the
Writings also recognize that people cannot be free if oppressed by
body-and-mind grinding poverty, lack of education or injustice — all
of which are required for freedom to be meaningful. For this reason,
the Writings prescribe a major re-thinking of mankind’s economic
principles, such as the elimination of the extremes of wealth and
poverty.
Part 12: Conclusion
This overview of the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom provides the
basis for three major conclusions.
First, the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom is rational, coherent and
comprehensive. It is rational because its teachings are developed
according to the principles of reasoning, specifically, the law of non-
contradiction.101 It is coherent because the principles and teachings
are interdependent and mutually supportive. Every teaching builds on
its predecessor and sets the stage for its successor. We might also say
that that each subsequent deduction is potentially present in its
predecessor. Furthermore, the Bahá’í philosophy of freedom is also
coherent because its teachings are all based on certain metaphysical
principles that ensure the underlying unity of its philosophy of
freedom. This unity will become more apparent throughout our
study.
The Bahá’í Writings cover the broad spectrum of issues about
freedom such as the metaphysical basis of free will; the body and free
will; consciousness, intentionality and freedom; freedom and
responsibility; personal freedoms vis-à-vis community rights;
legitimate limitations on personal freedom; positive and negative
liberty102; circumstantial, natural and acquired freedom103. There, of
course many other issues to be explored but that is beyond the scope
of this paper.
Second, the Bahá’í Writings understand freedom as spiritual,
teleological and instrumental in nature. Free will is one of mankind’s
divinely given spiritual capacities and achieves its highest expression

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
in advancing our spiritual development. It is also teleological, i.e. it
exists for a purpose, namely, the actualization of mankind’s physical,
intellectual and spiritual potentials. Such progress is, after all, the
purpose of all the Manifestations of God. Furthermore, in contrast
to many other philosophies of freedom, the Bahá’í Writings teach
that while freedom is a necessary instrument for the achievement of
greater spiritual ends, it is necessary but not sufficient for human
progress. Freedom is not an absolute end in itself and by itself does
not lead to progress that is appropriate to human nature. The
Manifestations are must provide the needed spiritual guidance.
Finally, the philosophy of freedom includes — and possibly
originates — at least two original arguments strengthening the basis
of free will by showing the untenability of materialist views of
human nature. By showing the untenability of materialist determinism
in its various forms, the Bahá’í Writings further undermine the
materialist understanding of human nature and problematic
conclusions that follow for the value of individuals; the basis and
application of ethics; the nature and purpose of social interactions;
and the purpose and meaning of human existence including suffering.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
arguments,
while
somewhat
technical,
are
important because they not only solve two long-standing scientific
and philosophical problems but, more important, they further show
the untenability of materialist and determinist positions on free will.
The first of these provides a new solution to the mind-body problem
whereas the second demonstrates the impossibility of mind-brain
identity theory there by showing the necessity of invoking non-
physical entities to explain certain brain functions. Because of their
somewhat technical nature, these are in the appendix to this paper
and not in the main text.
Appendix: Brain and Mind
The Bahá’í Writings provide at least two decisive insights to the
problem of the relationship between brain and mind. Descartes
formulated the classical dualist position by claiming that mind (or
non-extended substance) and brain (material, extended substance) are
essentially different and, therefore, cannot communicate. Which of
these two is the basis of free will?

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
In our view, the Bahá’í Writings present a simple and elegant
solution to the dualism problem: the problem is chimerical, an
illusion caused by Descartes’ faulty analysis in identifying both the
non-extended spirit and the extended body as distinct, separate and
wholly incompatible substances. The dualism problem is an artefact
of this confused analysis. How can completely distinct, separable and
incompatible substances be connected let alone compose a third
substance, i.e. an individual human nature?
One of the major arguments against any spiritual understanding of
free will is that soul or mind and body cannot interact. This argument
is famously formulated by Descartes — although it exists with other
philosophers as well. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out Descartes’ error while
presenting his argument for the immortality of the soul.
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by itself,
and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon the
substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the rational
soul is the substance, and the body depends upon it. If the
accident — that is to
say, the body — be destroyed, the
substance, the spirit, remains. [SAQ 239]
The
solution
to
the
Cartesian
dilemma
is
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
identification of the spirit or soul as the “substance” and the body as
“accidental.” Being “accidental” makes the body into an attribute of
the spirit substance; indeed, it is an “accidental” attribute, i.e. one
that is not even essential to the existence of the substance. Thus
spirit and body are not necessarily eternally connected and spirit will
eventually leave the body behind.
As we recall from foregoing discussion, accidental attributes
depend on the substance to exist. When the accidental quality
disappears, the substance still remains. Indeed, the substance i.e. the
rational soul, is the basis for the mental and spiritual processes. There
is no incompatibility between a substance and its attribute. An action
is not incompatible with the person who acts; the red color is not
incompatible with the tomato itself.104 In other words, Descartes —
and those who use his argument — make the mistake of identifying
both rational soul and body as independent substances even though
the body is an accidental attribute. This error has misdirected
thinking on this subject, and with it the interpretation of research

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings
results. A good example of this is Sam Harris’s misinterpretation of
the Libet experiments in physical confusing reflex reactions with
deliberative thought.105
The determinist rejection of free will requires that brain and mind
or soul be identic. This is untenable as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá shows when he
says,
reflect that the vibration of the air, which is an accident of
no importance, attracts and exhilarates the spirit of man and
has great effect upon him: it makes him weep or laugh;
perhaps it will influence him to such a degree that he will
throw himself into danger. [SAQ 246]
Qualia refer to the subjective qualitative experiences of our own
conscious states of mind. These states of mind include each person’s
unique experiences of sensations such as ‘blue’ or real and/or
imaginative experiences; and events. Qualia refer to the ‘what it is
like’106 to be particular individual in a specific situation. In other
words, qualia make up the whole of our subjectively experienced
‘life-world’ which is why they are so incredibly important to humans.
Much of human life is driven by the quest for certain qualia or
subjective experiences as seen in the pursuit of beauty, friendship,
love, poetry, stories, pleasure, music, ritual, humor, justice, truth,
God and meaning among other things.
Qualia and subjective experience pose difficulties for brain-mind
identity theory because qualia are not physical things — there is no
way to ‘scoop up’ or measure someone’s subjective experience. None
of the criteria of scientific evidence — physicality, measurability,
objective and external observability, and falsifiability among others
— can be applied to qualia and subjective experience. How can there
be brain functions which cannot be measured? According to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, physical measuring devices only provide “knowledge of things
perceptible to the senses” [SAQ 83] — which excludes qualia and
subjective experiences. Consequently, they are not appropriate
targets of scientific study. Furthermore, because qualia and
subjective experiences are not physical, their actions and interactions
cannot be explained in terms of physical cause and effect. The non-
physical nature of qualia creates a conundrum for the brain-mind
identity theory: how can a physical organ like the brain accommodate

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
a class of non-physical qualia and subjective experiences? This is self-
contradictory. How, for example, can there be aspects of brain
function that cannot be measured? It is difficult to avoid the
conclusion that the existence of qualia and subjective experience is
incompatible with brain-mind identity theory and, therefore, is
incompatible with any form of hard determinism.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
`‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a Hidden
Treasure’.” http://bahai-library.com/abdulbaha_kuntu_
kanzan_makhfiyyan . Translated and Introduced by Moojan Momen.
Adler, Mortimer. The Idea of Freedom Vols. 1-2. New York: Doubleday and
Company, 1958.
Berlin, Irving. “Two Concepts of Liberty,” in The Proper Study of Mankind.
New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 1997.
Harris, Sam. Free Will. New York: Free Press, 2012.
Kluge, Ian. “The Bahá’í Philosophy of Human Nature” in The Journal of
Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 27, Spring-Summer 2017.
Mill, John Stuart. On Liberty. Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1947.
Warburton, Nigel. Arguments for Freedom. Milton Keynes: The Open
University, 2007.



NOTES
1 North Korea, China and Russia were engaged for Communism and the
United Nations, led by the U.S. fought for a democratic capitalism.
2 Portugal gave independence to Angola and Mozambique in 1975. Some
would count the American Viet Nam War as a war of national liberation
(ended 1975) as well the Soviet war in Afghanistan (ended 1989).
3 Francois Lyotard, The Post-Modern Condition, 1979.
4 Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Baha’i Writings” in Lights of Irfan,
Vol. 9. 2008 http://bahai-library.com/series/irfan or at
https://www.bahaiphilosophy.com
5 Mortimer Adler, The Idea of Freedom, Volumes I and II first published in
1958.

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings


6 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Baha’i Writings,” Lights of Irfan, 14, 2013
http://bahai-library.com/series/irfan or at my philosophy website,
https://www.bahaiphilosophy.com
7 Isaiah Berlin, “Two Concepts of Liberty” in Isaiah Berlin, The Proper Study
of Mankind, p. 194 – 203.
8 Mortimer Adler, The Idea of Freedom, I. 137–148.
9 This is not to be confused with American Transcendentalism as formulated
by Emerson among others.
10 Bertrand Russell, Sceptical Essays, p. 118. (Amita Singh)
11 John Stuart Mill, Utilitarianism, Chapter Two, “What Utilitarianism Is,”
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/11224/pg11224.txt
12 Isaiah Berlin, “Two Concepts of Liberty” in Isaiah Berlin, The Proper
Study of Mankind, p. 194 – 203.
13 Daniel Stoljar, “Physicalism” in The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy”
https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/physicalism/
14 Sam Harris, Free Will, p. 5.
15 Patricia Churchland, Touching a Nerve: The Self as Brain.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kPc9qs7YK1w
16 Sam Harris, Free Will
17 Shaun Nichols, “Free Will Versus the Programmed Brain,” Scientific
American, August 2008, www.scientificamerican.com/article/free-will-vs-
programmed-brain/
18 This is true even in emergence theories. The new phenomena – such as
water expanding as it freezes – are unpredictable but that does not mean
they are uncaused.
19 Richard Taylor, “Freedom and Determinism” in Philosophy: Con
temporary Perspectives on Perennial Issues, p. 132.
20 David Hume, An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Section X,
“Miracles.” Hume defines a miracle as a violation of the laws of nature.
21 Bunin and Yu, Blackwell’s Dictionary of Western Philosophy, p. 123.
22 ibid., p. 123.
23 David Hume
24 Immanuel Kant, Critique of Practical Reason, Chp. 3, “Of the Motives of
Pure Practical Reason.”
25 George Musser, “The Quantum Physics of Free Will,” in Scientific
American, February, 2012,
https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/quantum-physics-free-will/
26 E.H. Walker, The Physics of Consciousness. He tries to join quantum
theory and neuroscience by explaining how quantum effects can affect the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


macroscopic world especially the brain. The problem is that these effects
are still material and cannot explain the attributes of free will as explained
below.
27 Ching-Hung Woo, “Free Will is an Illusion, But Freedom Isn’t,”
Philosophy Now, Aug-Sept. 2017, Issue 121. philosophynow.org/issues/
112/Free_Will_Is_An_Illusion_But_Freedom_Isnt
28 As a compatibilist, Ching-Hung Woo does not see the denial of free will
as a denial of freedom.
29 For example, subjective idealism (Berkeley), objective idealism (Hegel),
Platonism. Neoplatonism (both of which have many affinities with the
Baha’i Writings. See “Neoplatonism and the Baha’i Writings” Parts I
(Lights of Irfan 11, 2010) and Part II, Lights of Irfan 12, 2011 II
http://bahai-library.com/series/Irfan
30 See Bahá’u’lláh, “I Was a Hidden Treasure” (provisional translation) for a
discussion of substance and form in the Bahá’í Writings. See also Some
Answered Questions, 18:2.
31 Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Baha’i Writings,” in Lights
of Irfan, Vol. 4, 2003.
32 Ian Kluge, “Neoplatonism and the Baha’i Writings,” Parts I and II in
Lights of Irfan, Vol 11 2010, Vol. 12 2011
33 Bishop Berkeley, “A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human
Knowledge,” 1710. Since we only know our internal personal impressions
of things, there no evidence for the external existence of matter.
34 Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Baha’i Writings” in Lights
of Irfan, 4, 2003 or at my website https://www.bahaiphilosophy.com/
35 There are degrees of agency or ability to act – but all things do so [PT 89-
90]. The mineral or elements power of action is limited to simple
existence [PUP 88].
36 Shoghi Effendi, “To an individual believer,” Nov, 26, 1939 in LG 536.
36 Shoghi Effendi, “To an individual believer,” Nov, 26, 1939 in LG 536.
37 Shoghi Effendi, “To an individual believer,” Nov, 26, 1939 in LG 536.
38 Charles Choi, “Brain Tumour Causes Uncontrollable Paedophilia,” in New
Scientist, 21 October, 2002, https://www.newscientist.com/article/
dn2943-brain-tumour-causes-uncontrollable-paedophilia/
39 Ian Kluge, “Baha’i Ontology,” Parts I and II in Lights of Irfan, Vol. 6,
2005 and Vol. 7, 2006.
40 Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Baha’i Writings,” in Lights
of Irfan 4, 2003.
41 God has no unactualized potentials because that would mean God is
incomplete and subject to change which He is not. However, some

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings


process theologians, most famously Charles Hartshorne, hold the view
that God changes.
42 Patricia Churchland, Touching a Nerve: The Self as Brain.
43 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Tablet to the Hague, p. 7, emphasis added.
44 This is not, of course, a license to abuse the natural world in which
humans are embedded for their earthly tenure since the phenomenal world
is also one of God’s creations. Humanity’s “mastery” is the basis for
responsibility for the well-being of the phenomenal world and is not an
excuse for predatory environmental attitudes and practices.
45 Lebenswelt refers to the way in which each kind of being – and even every
individual of that kind – experiences the world in which they live. A
flower does not experience a lion as predator but the lamb does.
46 Animals do not need to conceptualize classes of things; they only need to
recognize certain physical attributes.
47 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Baha’i Writings” in Lights of Irfan, 14, 2013
or at https://www.bahaiphilosophy.com/
48 The Writings are in foundational disagreement with the extreme
subjectivism of Post-modernism See “Post-modernism and the Baha’i
Writings” in Lights of Irfan, 9, 2008 or at www.bahaiphilosophy.com
49 A philosophical zombie is a model of mankind in which people lack
consciousness, a self or ego, and all acts are automatic and dictated by
natural laws or a program. There is no individual initiative.
50 The six conditions of free will: consciousness; intent; an agent; knowledge
and judgment; will or volition; and the ability to transcend physical cause
and effect.
51 Jean-Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, Part 4, Chap. 2, III.
52 Ian Kluge, “The Baha’i Philosophy of Human Nature” in The Journal of
Baha’i Studies, Spring-Summer 2017.
53 Jean-Paul Sartre, “Existentialism is a Humanism,” in Walter Kaufmann,
ed., Existentialism from Dostoyevsky to Sartre, p. 295; emphasis added.
54 Sam Harris, Free Will; Patricia Churchland, Touching a Nerve: The Self as
Brain. Both are well-known neuro-scientists.
55 Purpose, or teleology and intention are completely rejected by the
scientific concept of matter.
56 The term “progressive revelation” is used in various places by Shoghi
Effendi, e.g. WOB pp. 102, 143; Bahá’u’lláh in GWB p. 75; Bahá’u’lláh,
KI p. 4. The context in each of these examples makes it clear that
‘progressive’ is meant in the sense of ‘advancement’ and ‘improvement’.
This is a vision of history which does not see all stages of human
development as equal at all times.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


57 Foreign aid programs are a good example of mankind’s moral and spiritual
progress. A century ago, such policies were inconceivable but now they
are part of foreign policy of all advanced nations in which both
individuals and national governments make sacrifices to assist strangers in
desperate circumstances.
58 Ian Kluge, “Baha’i Ethics: A Meta-Ethical Excursion,” in Lights of Irfan,
15, 2017, http://bahai-library.com/ or at www.bahaiphilosophy.com
59 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra (Hollingdale), Part 4, “The Honey
Offering”, p. 252.
60 Maurice Cranston, The Quintessence of Sartrism, p. 31.
61 Charles Taylor, The Ethics of Authenticity, p. 22.
62 Charles Taylor, The Ethics of Authenticity, 6
63 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra (Hollingdale), Part 4, “The Honey
Offering”, p. 252.
64 The Universal House of Justice, 1993, June 05, Homosexuality, p. 2;
emphasis added.
65 Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion.
66 Sam Harris, The End of Faith.
67 Christopher Hitchens, God Is Not Great.
68 `Abdu'l-Bahá, “I Was a Hidden Treasure,” (provisional translation) in
Ocean; emphasis added.
69 The Universal House of Justice, 1988 Dec 29, Individual Rights and
Freedoms, p. 4.
70 The Universal House of Justice, 1988 Dec 29, Individual Rights and
Freedoms, p. 4; emphasis added.
71 The Universal House of Justice, 1988 Dec 29, Individual Rights and
Freedoms, p. 5.
72 Isaiah Berlin, “Two Concepts of Liberty” in Isaiah Berlin, The Proper
Study of Mankind, p. 197.
73 Ibid., p. 198.
74 Ibid., p. 240.
75 Even `Abdu'l-Bahá seems to suggest an extreme solution: death.
In this, the cycle of Almighty God, violence and force, constraint and
oppression, are one and all condemned. It is, however, mandatory that
the use of opium be prevented by any means whatsoever, that
perchance the human race may be delivered from this most powerful of
plagues. And otherwise, woe and misery to whoso falleth short of his
duty to his Lord. [SWAB 148]

Freedom and the Bahá’í Writings


76 Thomas Hobbes, Leviathan, Part 1, “Of Man”, ch. 13, p. 185-186.
77 Mortimer Adler, The Idea of Freedom, Vol. I, p. 137.
78 Ian Kluge, “The Baha’i Philosophy of Human Nature,” in Journal of Baha’i
Studies, Vol. 27, Spring-Summer, 2017.
79 Stalin’s 1936 constitution was the most liberal on earth – and launched
during the Great Terror which killed millions.
80 Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated 3 June 1925 written to the delegates
and visitors at the Convention of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
United States and Canada, published in "Bahá’í Administration: Selected
Messages 1922-1932" pp. 87-88); emphasis added.
81 Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-I-Ittihad, provisional translation and commentary by
Moojan Momen, “Issues Raised,” #1.
82 The Universal House of Justice, 1988 Dec 29, Individual Rights and
Freedoms, p. 4.
83 Ibid., emphasis added.
84 One of my favorite philosophy professors used to say, “Don’t believe
everything you think!”
85 Mortimer Adler, The Idea of Freedom, Vol. I, p. 107.
86 The Universal House of Justice, 1988, Dec. 29, Individual Rights and
Freedoms, p. 4; emphasis added.
87 Mortimer Adler, The Idea of Freedom, Vol. I, p. 157.
88 Ibid., p. 134.
89 Ibid., p. 135.
90 Ibid., p. 87.
91 Ibid., p. 143.
92 The Universal House of Justice, 1992 Dec 10, Issues Related to Study
Compilation.
93 Richard Lourie, Russia Speaks: An Oral History From the Revolution to
the Present.
94 Isaiah Berlin, “Two Concepts of Liberty” in Berlin, The Proper Study of
Mankind, p. 194.
95 Nigel Warburton, Arguments for Freedom, p. 18.
96 Whether or not it is appropriate for government to remedy this situation
is a matter of political philosophy.
97 Isaiah Berlin, “Two Concepts of Liberty”, p. 206.
98 Ibid., p. 206.
99 Ibid., p. 208.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


100 Isaiah Berlin, A Value Pluralist and Humanist View of Human Nature, p.
67.
101 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Baha’i Writings,” Lights of Irfan, 14, 2013
http://bahai-library.com/series/Irfan or at my philosophy website,
https://www.bahaiphilosophy.com/
102 Isaiah Berlin, “Two Concepts of Liberty”, pp. 194 – 203.
103 Mortimer Adler, The Idea of Freedom, I. 137 – 148.
104 For a detailed explanation, see “The Baha’i Philosophy of Human Nature”
in The Journal of Baha’i Studies, Vol. 27, Spring-Summer 23017.
105 Sam Harris, Free Will, p. 7 – 14.
106 Thomas Nagel, “What Is It Like to Be a Bat?” in The Philosophical
Review. October, 1974.

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán (The Book of
Certitude)
Revolutionizing the Concepts of Religion,
Eschatology and Theology
Sohrab Kourosh
Abstract
The Kitáb-i-ˆqán (The Book of Certitude), which was designated
by Bahá’u’lláh as the Lord of Books that had been revealed by the
Most Exalted Pen and called by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the fountainhead of the
water of eternal life,1 is unique in the history of religions and holy
scriptures. This book is not only the key for opening the mysteries of
the past Holy Scriptures, but it revolutionizes the concepts of
Religion, Eschatology and Theology, by resolving and removing
Eschatological barriers and establishing the fundamentals of a
Universal Religion and a Universal Theology, that integrates and
harmonizes the contending religious ideologies.
Study of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán was recommended by Bahá’u’lláh, He
said, blessed is the one who had reviewed it and witnessed to its
testimony and had studied and pondered its contents2, and by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who stated “O thou who art seeking after the
knowledge of God! Immerse thyself in the ocean of the explanation
of the Beauty of the Merciful, so that thou mayest gather from its
depths the pearls of the wisdom of God.”3 And by Shoghi Effendi,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
who stated “The ˆqán is the most important book written on the
spiritual significance of the Cause. I do not believe any person can
consider himself well versed in the teachings unless he has studied it
thoroughly” [LDG1 37].
The Scriptural Significance of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Bahá’u’lláh in His last major Writing, the Epistle to the Son of the
Wolf, states:
Briefly, there hath been revealed in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán (Book of
Certitude) concerning the Presence and Revelation of God
that which will suffice the fair-minded. [ESW 118]
In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, He states:
All the Scriptures and the mysteries thereof are condensed
into this brief account. So much so that were a person to
ponder it a while in his heart, he would discover from all that
hath been said the mysteries of the Words of God, and would
apprehend the meaning of whatever hath been manifested by
that ideal King. [KI 237]
In the introduction to the first English translation of the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán in 1904, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote:
O Thou who are athirst for the water of life this manifest
book is the fountainhead of the water of eternal life. Drink
so much as thou art able from the fountain of the living
water. O thou who art seeking after the knowledge of God!
Immerse thyself in the ocean of the explanation of the Beauty
of the Merciful, so that thou mayest gather from its depths
the pearls of the wisdom of God. [The Book of Assurance, Front
page]

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
The place of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán in the Bahá’í
Literature
Shoghi Effendi in describing the place, the significance, the style
and a summary of the themes of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán in God Passes By
states:
Foremost among the priceless treasures cast forth from the
billowing ocean of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation ranks the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán (Book of Certitude), revealed in the space of two days
and two nights . . . it was written in fulfillment of the
prophecy of the Báb, Who had specifically stated that the
Promised One would complete the text of the unfinished
Persian Bayán4. . . [T]his Book, setting forth the Grand
Redemptive scheme of God, occupies a position unequaled by
any work in the entire range of Bahá’í literature, except the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Holy Book. . . Revealed on
the eve of the declaration of His Mission, it proffered to
mankind the ‘Choice Sealed Wine whose seal is of musk,’5 and
broke the ‘seals’ of the ‘Book’ referred to by Daniel.6 [GPB
138]
The Style of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Bahá’u’lláh’s writings are characterized by different forms and
styles, each suitable for the content and purpose of its revelation. If
a Tablet or treatise was addressed to a particular person or a special
cultural group, cultural particularities and language of that person or
group were taken in consideration.
In this respect Bahá’u’lláh states:
At one time We spoke in the language of the lawgiver; at
another in that of the truth-seeker and the mystic, and yet
Our supreme purpose and highest wish hath always been to
disclose the glory and sublimity of this station. [ESW 15]
We know that:
o The Kitáb-i-Aqdas is Revealed in the language of the lawgiver,

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
o The Kitáb-i-ˆqán is Revealed in the language of the truth-
seeker,
o The Seven Valleys is Revealed in the language of the mystic.
Regarding the style of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Shoghi Effendi States:
A model of Persian prose, of a style at once original, chaste
and vigorous, and remarkably lucid, both cogent in argument
and matchless in irresistible eloquence.
Historical Background of its Revelation
The Kitáb-i-ˆqán was revealed in Baghdád, the capital of Iraq,
which was a part of the Ottoman Empire in late 1861 or early 1862,
approximately one year before Bahá’u’lláh’s public declaration in the
Garden of Ri∂ván. It is assumed that the Kitáb-i-ˆqán fulfilled the
dual purpose of proving the truth of the Báb’s claim and also of
preparing the ground for Bahá’u’lláh's own public declaration. The
book was revealed in response to questions asked by one of the Báb’s
uncles when he visited Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdád.
His Holiness the Báb had three maternal uncles. His second uncle,
Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí, also known as Khál-i-A‘ẓam (the Greatest Uncle),
who was the uncle who raised him after the passing of his father, was
the only one of His uncles to have embraced His Cause at the time of
His Martyrdom. Aware of the special qualities that the Báb possessed
since earliest childhood, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí was the first to
embrace the Cause of the Báb in Shíráz after the Letters of the Living
and was himself martyred shortly before the Blessed Báb as one of the
Seven Martyrs of Ṭihrán.7
The Báb’s eldest uncle, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad, had great
respect for his Nephew’s integrity and spirituality. He wrote a letter
to the Báb’s mother after the Báb visited him upon returning from
pilgrimage, and attested to the following:
His eminence Jináb-i-Hájí8 has safely arrived and I am
pleased to spend my time in His presence. . . . Truly, His
bountiful soul is the source of felicity for the people of this
world, and the next. He brings honor to us all . . .9

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Yet, despite His admiration for the Báb, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid
Mu˙ammad did not recognize the station of the Báb for many years.
He was heartbroken when his brother was martyred and did not
understand the reason why he did not accept the intercession of the
influential merchants who were trying so hard to save his life.
Although he was a devoted and practicing Muslim, and their
family was known for their piety and charity, after they were
identified with the Cause of the Báb and his brother was killed for
following and supporting the Báb, the whole family experienced
hardship and he and his youngest brother were subject to
discriminatory treatment by their business associates and other
merchants. For several years he did not want to discuss this subject
with anyone. However, once when engaged in a series of discussions
with Áqá Mírzá Núru’d-Dín,10 a close relative of the Báb, Óájí Mírzá
Siyyid Mu˙ammad was forced to reconsider his position. During the
discussion, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad intimated that he could
simply not believe that His own Nephew was the promised one of
Islam. In reply, Áqá Mírzá Núru’d-Dín compared Óájí Mírzá Siyyid
Mu˙ammad to Abú’l-La’hab,11 the uncle of Mu˙ammad. Óájí Mírzá
Siyyid Mu˙ammad was understandably shaken by the comparison and
asked Áqá Mírzá Núru’d-Dín what he should do to convince himself
of the validity of the Báb’s claim. Áqá Mírzá Núru’d-Dín suggested
that he go on pilgrimage to Iraq and while there, visit his sister, the
mother of the Báb, who had been living there since the martyrdom of
her Son, and then go to Baghdád in order to attain the presence of
Bahá’u’lláh and ask his questions of Him.
Inspired by this encounter, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad, who
lived in Shíráz, wrote to his youngest brother, Óájí Mírzá Óasan-‘Alí,
who lived in Yazd, and asked him to accompany him on pilgrimage.
He agreed to join him. It was not until they reached Baghdád that
Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad revealed to his brother the real
purpose of the visit. The younger brother became angry, and
although younger in age, he spoke harshly to him and said he did not
want to hear about the Faith and left.
Mírzá Áqá Ján12 described the events that followed in a Tablet
addressed to Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Majíd-i-Shírází.13 According to the
Tablet, Óájí Siyyid Javá'd-i-Karbilá’í14 went to Bahá’u’lláh and
informed Him that the Báb’s two uncles were in Baghdád. Bahá’u’lláh

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
instructed him to bring them to His presence. The next day, Óájí
Siyyid Javá’d, arrived with Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad.
While in Bahá’u’lláh’s presence, the Báb’s eldest uncle was
overwhelmed by His utterances and in the end beseeched Bahá’u’lláh
to help him to see the truth of the Báb’s Message, bearing in mind
that certain Islamic traditions15 were not, in his view, fulfilled by his
Nephew.16 Bahá’u’lláh readily consented to help him and bade him to
return with a list of the questions which puzzled him. The Báb’s uncle
then returned with four categories of questions all dealing with the
coming of the Qá’im.17 The questions have been preserved in the
papers of the Afnán family.18
The questions he asked were the following:19
o The Day of Resurrection:20 Is there to be a corporeal
resurrection? The world is utterly filled with injustice.21 How
are the just to be requited and the unjust punished?”
o The Twelfth Imám was born at a certain time and lives on.22
There are traditions all supporting this belief. How can this be
explained?”
o Interpretation of the Holy Texts.23 This Cause does not seem
to conform to the beliefs held throughout the years. One
cannot ignore the literal meaning of the Holy Texts and
Scriptures. How can this be explained?
o Certain events, according to the traditions that have come
down from the Imáms, must occur before the advent of the
Qá’im.24 Some of these are mentioned. But none of these has
happened. How can this be explained?”
In answer to these questions, Bahá’u’lláh, within the span of two days
and two nights, revealed what is known today as the Kitáb-i-ˆqán25
but was in the early days referred to as Risálíy-i-Khál (“Epistle to the
Uncle”). The original copy/manuscript of the Book was written in the
hand of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who was eighteen years of age at that time. A
few corrections and the following paragraph near the end of the book
were written by Bahá’u’lláh Himself:
Amidst them all, We stand, life in hand, wholly resigned to
His will; That perchance through God's loving kindness and

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
His grace, this revealed and manifest Letter may lay down His
life as a sacrifice in the path of the Primal Point,26 the most
exalted Word. By Him at Whose bidding the Spirit hath
spoken, but for this yearning of Our soul, We would not, for
one moment have tarried any longer in this city. “Sufficient
Witness is God unto Us.” [KI π279]
In this book, Bahá’u’lláh addresses the issues and expectations
common among the believers of all religions that become obstacles
and veils that prevent them from recognizing the promised one of
their religion (the new Manifestation of God), whom they await and
for whose advent they pray. Bahá’u’lláh does not validate the Shí‘ah
stories regarding the birth of the Twelfth Imám and the occultation
stories about him by discussing the particulars of those tales.
The Kitáb-i-ˆqán dispelled every doubt that Óájí Mírzá Siyyid
Mu˙ammad had harbored. He became a devout believer, and at the
end of his life he acknowledged his belief in the twin Manifestations
of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh in his will and testament. The remainder of
the Báb’s family, as was prophesied by the Báb Himself, including his
youngest uncle, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Óasan-‘Alí, eventually embraced
the Faith.27
The original manuscript of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán was presented to
Shoghi Effendi in 1948 by Fátimih-Khánum-i-Afnán, the great-
granddaughter of Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad. It was placed in the
International Archives Building28 at Bahá’í World Center on Mount
Carmel in Haifa, Israel.
Publication and Translation of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
The Kitáb-i-ˆqán was revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in Persian (Fársi). It
was first published in Persian in Bombay, India in the early 1880s and
was again published among a group of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh in
1890.29 It was first translated into English by ‘Alí-Kuli Khán,
Nabilu’d-Dawlih, assisted by Howard MacNutt, and published under
the title The Book of Assurance in New York by George V.
Blackburn, Co., in 1904. It was later retranslated into English by
Shoghi Effendi as The Kitáb-i-ˆqán: The Book of Certitude and first

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
published in 1931 by The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of the United States of America.
The following letter, written by Shoghi Effendi to the National
Assembly through his secretary, refers to this translation:
As the ˆqán is the most important book wherein Bahá’u’lláh
explains the basic beliefs of the faith, he thought a proper
rendering of it would infinitely enhance the teaching work in
the West. He hopes that this new rendering will be an
improvement on the previous one, but he fully admits that it
is far from perfect, far from the original itself. Shoghi
Effendi has given the proper transliteration of the Eastern
terms and wants you to abide by them, keeping every dash,
point, accent or inverted comma. To help you in this, he has
also on a separate sheet written these in their proper form.
He wishes you further not to include the introduction that
exists in the last edition, for he does not think it worthwhile
and enlightening. Drop also the glossary that exists at the end
of the last edition and form a glossary using the definitions
that he has sent to be put in the forthcoming Bahá’í World.
As Shoghi Effendi has been emphasizing the need of
submitting all publications to the Reviewing Committee, he
wants to be the first to abide by that rule, though he hopes
that they will not make unnecessary delay. In Germany they
have translated the 'ˆqán from the last translation and they
are waiting for Shoghi Effendi's rendering to make the
necessary alterations and publish their own. The proceeds of
the sale of the book Shoghi Effendi wishes to go to the
American National Assembly in an unlabeled form. This is a
gift of his own personal labors that he wishes to present that
body and he wishes it to be considered as a token of
appreciation for the help they have rendered him in carrying
on his arduous task.
(Signed) RUHI AFNAN.
Unable to find a good typist, I have had to do the work
myself, and I trust that the proofreaders will find it easy to
go over and will not mind the type errors which I have tried

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
to correct. I would especially urge you to adhere to the
transliteration which I have adopted. The correct title is, I
feel, ‘The Kitáb-i-ˆqán,’ the sub-title ‘The Book of
Certitude.’ May it help the friends to approach a step
further, and obtain a clearer idea of the fundamental
teachings set forth by Bahá’u’lláh.
(Signed) SHOGHI.
(Shoghi Effendi, Extracts from the USBN)
The English translation is divided into two parts:
o Part 1 contains explanations of the symbolic and figurative
language of the sacred books and proof of all previous
Manifestations
o Part 2 contains proofs of the Báb’s mission and foundation of
the Bahá’í theology.
A second edition of “The Kitáb-i-ˆqán: The Book of Certitude” with
an introduction and index was published in 1950. The book has been
subsequently printed more than fifteen times.
The Major Themes of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By listed the major themes of the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
o Proclaims unequivocally the existence of a personal God,
unknowable, inaccessible, the source of all Revelation,
eternal, omniscient, omnipresent and almighty;
o Asserts the relativity of religious truth and the continuity of
Divine Revelation;
o Affirms the unity of the Prophets, the universality of their
Message, the identity of their fundamental teachings, the
sanctity of their scriptures, and the twofold character of their
stations;
o Denounces the blindness and the perversity of the divines and
the doctors of religions in every age;

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
o Cites and elucidates the allegorical passages of the New-
Testament, the abstruse verses of the Qur’án, and the cryptic
Mu˙ammadan traditions which have bred those age-long
misunderstandings, doubts and animosities that have sundered
and kept apart the followers of the world's leading religious
systems;”
o Enumerates the essential prerequisites for the attainment by
every true seeker of the object of his quest;”
o Demonstrates the validity, sublimity and significance of the
Báb’s Revelation;
o  Acclaims the heroism and detachment of His disciples;”
o  Foreshadows, and prophesies the world-wide triumph of the
Revelation promised to the people of the Bayán.”
The Unprecedented Concepts in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Many of the concepts presented in The Kitáb-i-ˆqán are
unprecedented in the sacred scriptures of past religions. Some of the
concepts that have been mentioned in the religious literature, have
been given new definitions and meanings by Bahá’u’lláh.
Bahá’u’lláh states:
Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at the
bidding of the omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new life into
every human frame, and instilled into every word a fresh
potency. [GWB 92]
The following are some of the unprecedented concepts in The
Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
o Revelation of the universal religion
o Presentation of the universal Manifestation of God
o Redefining the eschatology and the eschaton.
o Foundation of the Bahá’í theology
o Redefining the concept of Divine Unity

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
o Revealing and expounding the mysteries of all Scriptures
o Attainment unto the Divine Presence
o The Essential infallibility of the Manifestations of God
o Confirming the ability of the Manifestations of God to
perform miracles and allowing people to ask for one.
Revolutionizing the Concept of Religion
Although the Bahá’í writings indicate that the divine religions are
universal, this fact is not explicitly and clearly stated in the Holy
Scriptures and understood by the followers of the past religions.
Some statements in the past scriptures are indicative of the limited
mission of the past Manifestations and the limited scope of their
religion:
Some of the statements in the Old Testament indicate that the
main mission of Moses was to bring the children of Israel out of
Egypt and lead them to the land of milk and honey and establishing
the laws was incidental to this process.
[God said to Moses] Now therefore, behold, the cry of the
children of Israel is come unto me: and I have also seen the
oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them. Come
now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou
mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of
Egypt. [Exodus 3:9-10]
Some of Jesus’ statements in the Gospels indicate that He
considered Himself as the promised Messiah of Israel and the
inclusion of the Gentiles in His Faith was a post Jesus development.
These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying,
Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the
Samaritans enter ye not: But go rather to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel. [Matthew 10:5]
He [Jesus] answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost
sheep of the house of Israel. [Matthew 15: 24]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Although there are many verses in the Qur’án that address all
humanity, there was an argument in the early Islamic era that Islam
had come primarily for Arabs and for Mecca and its surroundings,
which was based on verses such as this, God said to Mu˙ammad:
It is thus moreover that we have revealed to thee an Arabic
Koran, that thou mayest warn the mother city [Mecca] and all
around it, and that thou mayest warn them of that day of the
Gathering, of which there is no doubt — when part shall be in
Paradise and part in the flame. [Qur’an (Rodwell tr.), Sura
Counsel, 42:5]
Revelation of the universal Religion
In The Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh clearly explained the concepts of
universal religion and universality of religion. Revelation of God is
for all humanity. There is only one religion, the universal religion of
God, eternal in the past and eternal in the future, It integrates and
harmonizes all the contending religions of the past as the successive
stages of a progressive Revelation.
The purpose of the universal Religion is:
o To establish unity,
o To Spiritualize,
o To educate and
o Transform the individual and society
In these cities [the Revelation and the holy Books of
religions] spiritual sustenance is bountifully provided, and
incorruptible delights have been ordained. The food they
bestow is the bread of heaven, and the Spirit they impart is
God's imperishable blessing. Upon detached souls they bestow
the gift of Unity, enrich the destitute, and offer the cup of
knowledge unto them who wander in the wilderness of
ignorance. [KI π219]
Is not the object of every Revelation to effect a
transformation in the whole character of mankind, a

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
transformation that shall manifest itself both outwardly and
inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external
conditions? For if the character of mankind be not changed,
the futility of God's universal Manifestations would be
apparent. (KI π270)
Revolutionizing the concept of eschatology
Redefining the Eschaton and the Eschatology: Eschaton is
historically defined as: The End of the Time or Age. Eschatology is
historically defined as: Doctrines or set of beliefs related to the end
of the time, end of the world, Resurrection, Life and death and
judgment.
The concept of Eschaton (the end of the time, the age or the
world) is presented in all the past religions. However, in the Judeo-
Christo-Islamic Eschatological traditions the Eschaton is also
connected to the appearance of their promised ones. The signs and
prophecies related to the return or coming of the promised one in
symbolic and allegorical language were considered as literal events
that should precede or accompany his appearance.
The Old Testament contains the signs and prophecies related to
the manifestation of their promised Messiah: (1) descent of Elijah in
his corporal body from heaven prior to the appearance of Messiah,
and (2) the signs and prophecies in the Books of Joel and Malachi,
such as:
And I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth,
blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke. The sun shall be turned
into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and
terrible day of the LORD come. [Joel 2:28–32]
For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven.
[Malachi 4:1]
Christian Eschatology is more complicated. In addition to all signs
and occurrences mentioned in Jewish Eschatology, there are
uncertainties regarding the chronological aspects of the Second
Advent and the commencement of the millennium. The eschatological
statements in the Gospels predicated four types of Eschatology

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
(realized, near, far and indefinite) and two types of millennialism (pre
and post).
In the Islamic eschatology, although similar to the Judeo-Christian
eschatology, the imagery is more expanded and the sequence of events
is related with more detail. According to Islamic traditions, at the
time of the end, the heavens will be cleft asunder, the sun shall be
folded up, the stars shall fall, and the mountains shall be set in
motion.
After the appearance of Mahdi (promised one of Islam) and Jesus,
Isráfíl, one of the four exalted archangels, sounds the trumpet on the
Day of Judgment. In so doing he resurrects the dead to be judged. All
will pass a bridge called Ṣerá† that spans the expanse of Hell and
connects the plane of judgment to the Heavens (Paradise). The
virtuous will pass over the bridge and enter the Paradise, while the
sinners fall into the Hell.
In The Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh explains the mysteries of the
eschatological statements of the sacred scriptures of the past
religions:
o When is the Eschaton, the end of the time.
o What is the heaven that is cleft asunder.
o What are the Sun and the Moon that will not give light.
o What are the stars that will fall from heaven
In The Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh explains:
o What is the resurrection and the sound of trumpet.
o Who are the dead that will come to life.
o What is the Rapture
o What is the Judgment and the Ṣerá†.
o What is the Heaven and what is the Hell.
Revolutionizing the concept of Theology
In The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh:

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
o Establishes the foundation of the Universal (Bahá’í) Theology
o Presented the concept of the Universal Manifestation of God
o Redefined the Concepts of Divine Unity and
o Attainment unto the Divine Presence
o Presented the absolute transcendence of God, inaccessible to
and exalted above the comprehension of all created things,
even the Manifestations of God.
o Demonstrated that Recognition of the Manifestation of God
is the ultimate goal of knowledge and spiritual quest, and
that,
o The Manifestation of God is the Godhead in the human world
and the world of creation.
o The Manifestation of God must be recognized by His own
self.
o The unity of the essence of all Manifestations of God, which
are the appearances of the Primal Will in the world at
different times and under different names.
o The relativity of the stations of firstness and lastness of all
Manifestations of God.
Other unprecedented concepts in The Kitáb-i-
ˆqán
o The continuity and progressive process of Divine revelation
and the relativity of the religious truth.
o Revealing and expounding the mysteries of all Scriptures.
o Essential Infallibility of the Manifestations of God
o The ability of the Manifestations of God to perform miracles
and allowing only one.
o The proper method and attitude of a seeker in the spiritual
quest for truth.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
o Bahá’u’lláh’s allusions to His own divine station.
It seems that the essential objective of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán is to
provide guidance and initiate the process of cleansing, purifying, and
preparing the soul of man to be able to receive and recognize the
Word of God and enter to the presence of the Universal
Manifestation of God in the City of His Revelation (The Universal
Religion of God), thus achieving the object of the Bahá’í Revelation,
i.e. to effect a fundamental transformation in the individual and
social character of mankind.
Study of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Study of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán was recommended by Bahá’u’lláh, He
said, blessed is the one who had reviewed it and witnessed to its
testimony and had studied and pondered its contents, and by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, who stated “O thou who art seeking after the knowledge of
God! Immerse thyself in the ocean of the explanation of the Beauty
of the Merciful, so that thou mayest gather from its depths the pearls
of the wisdom of God.”30
The study of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán can take place on several levels. On
one level a person can read the Book and benefit greatly without
referring to any other books or materials. However, regarding the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh in the same Book states:
All the Scriptures and the mysteries thereof are condensed
into this brief account. So much so that were a person to
ponder it a while in his heart, he would discover from all that
hath been said the mysteries of the Words of God, and would
apprehend the meaning of whatever hath been manifested by
that ideal King. [KI π266]
This servant will now share with thee a dewdrop out of the
fathomless ocean of the truths treasured in these holy words,
that haply discerning hearts may comprehend all the allusions
and the implications of the utterances of the Manifestations
of Holiness, so that the overpowering majesty of the Word
of God may not prevent them from attaining unto the ocean
of His names and attributes, nor deprive them of recognizing

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán
the Lamp of God which is the seat of the revelation of His
glorified Essence. [KI π27]
Considering the fact that in the course of exposition and
interpretation of the theological and religious concepts, Bahá’u’lláh
employs many theological, philosophical, and religious terms, and
makes reference to other sacred scriptures as well as historical events,
and in light of Shoghi Effendi’s statements regarding the importance
of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, “The ˆqán is the most important book written
on the spiritual significance of the Cause. I do not believe any person
can consider himself well versed in the teachings unless he has studied
it thoroughly,”31 and “The book is so important that the most minute
detail is worthy of consideration,”32 study of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán at
deeper levels becomes imperative.



NOTES
1 Paraphrase of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement in Persian, in “Má’ídih-yi-Asmani,”
Vol. 7, p. 157.
2 Paraphrase of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement in Persian, in “Má’ídih-yi-Asmani,”
Vol. 7, p. 157.
3 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement on the face page of the first English translation
of The Kitáb-i-ˆqán in 1904, under the title: “The Book of Assurance.”
4 The mother Book of the Báb’s dispensation was called the Bayán. There are
two Bayáns: one in Persian and the other in Arabic. The Persian Bayán was
to have nineteen vá˙ids (parts or units), each having nineteen chapters.
However, it was only completed to the tenth chapter of the ninth vá˙id
by the Báb. Regarding this Book Shoghi Effendi states:
Within the walls of that same fortress [Máh-Kú] the Bayán (Exposition)
— that monumental repository of the laws and precepts of the new
Dispensation and the treasury enshrining most of the Báb’s references
and tributes to, as well as His warning regarding, “Him Whom God will
make manifest“ — was revealed. Peerless among the doctrinal works of
the Founder of the Bábí Dispensation; consisting of nine vá˙ids
(Unities) of nineteen chapters each, except the last vá˙id comprising
only ten chapters; not to be confounded with the smaller and less
weighty Arabic Bayán, revealed during the same period. [GPB 24]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


The Báb prophesized that the Bayán would be completed by the Promised
One. The Kitáb-i-ˆqán serves as fulfillment of this prophecy and is
considered to be the completion of the vá˙ids of the Persian Bayán:
It was written in fulfillment of the prophecy of the Báb, Who had
specifically stated that the Promised One [The one whom God will
make manifest] would complete the text of the unfinished Persian
Bayán. . . [GPB 138]
5 This is a reference to Qur’án’s description of the Day of Judgment in which
the righteous will be given the Choice Sealed Wine whose seal is of musk.
Verily, the righteous shall be in pleasure; upon couches shall they gaze;
thou mayest recognise in their faces the brightness of pleasure; they
shall be given to drink wine that is sealed, whose seal is musk; for that
then let the aspirants aspire! (The Qur'án (E.H. Palmer tr), Sura 83 — Those
Who Give Short Weight)
Surely, among delights shall the righteous dwell! Seated on bridal
couches they will gaze around; Thou shalt mark in their faces the
brightness of delight; Choice sealed wine shall be given them to quaff.
(Qur’án , Rodwell tr. 83:29)
6 Daniel was one of the leaders of the Jewish group in the Babylonian
diaspora. Although he is not considered a Prophet such as Isaiah or Elijah
by Jewish priesthood, his book is a part of the Old Testament. The book
of Daniel contains many prophecies regarding the advents of the future
Manifestations of God. Most of the prophecies in Chapters 8 and 12 of
his book were subject of extensive analysis by the Biblical scholars. Some
of the prophecies were considered to have been fulfilled at the instance of
the First Advent (Manifestation of Jesus Christ). Other prophecies of the
book of Daniel formed the basis for the William Miller’s predictions
regarding the time of the Second Advent (return of the Jesus Christ) and
as stated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (in SAQ) those prophecies were fulfilled by
Manifestations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. The sealing of the Books is
referring to the statements in Chapter 12 (the last chapter of Daniel's
prophetic dream of the future):
12:4 But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to
the time of the end.
12:8 And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my Lord, what
shall be the end of these things? And he said, ‘Go thy way, Daniel: for
the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end’. (King James
Bible, Book of Daniel)
Some Bahá’í scholars assert, as stated by Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By,
that the revelation of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán serves as fulfillment of this

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán


prophecy. As the followers of the past religions did not understand the
symbolic and figurative language of their sacred books, these books were
sealed and closed to them, by explaining the meanings of the symbolic and
figurative language and revealing the secrets and mysteries enshrined in
these books in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, which was revealed at the dawn of His
revelation (time of the end), Bahá’u’lláh removed the seals from the books
and opened the meaning of their words.
7 Óájí Mírzá Siyyid 'Alí, surnamed Khál-i-A'ẓam (Literally, “The Greatest
Uncle”), the Báb’s maternal uncle, and one of the leading merchants of
Shíráz. It was this same uncle into whose custody the Báb, after the death
of His father, was entrusted, and who, on his Nephew's return from His
pilgrimage to Hijáz and His arrest by Husayn Khán, assumed undivided
responsibility for Him by pledging his word in writing. It was he who
surrounded Him, while under his care, with unfailing solicitude, who
served Him with such devotion, and who acted as intermediary between
Him and the hosts of His followers who flocked to Shíráz to see Him. His
only child, a Siyyid Javád, died in infancy. Towards the middle of the year
1265 A.H. (1848–9 A.D.), this same Óájí Mírzá Siyyid 'Alí left Shíráz and
visited the Báb in the castle of Chihríq. From thence he went to Ṭihrán
and, though having no special occupation, remained in that city until the
outbreak of the sedition which brought about eventually his martyrdom.
Though his friends appealed to him to escape the turmoil that was fast
approaching, he refused to heed their counsel and faced, until his last
hour, with complete resignation, the persecution to which he was
subjected. A considerable number among the more affluent merchants of
his acquaintance offered to pay his ransom, an offer which he rejected.
Finally he was brought before the Amír-Niẓám. “The Chief Magistrate of
this realm,” the Grand Vazír informed him, “is loth to inflict the slightest
injury upon the Prophet's descendants. Eminent merchants of Shíráz and
Ṭihrán are willing, nay eager, to pay your ransom. The Maliku't-Tujjár has
even interceded in your behalf. A word of recantation from you is
sufficient to set you free and ensure your return, with honours, to your
native city. I pledge my word that, should you be willing to acquiesce, the
remaining days of your life will be spent with honour and dignity under
the sheltering shadow of your sovereign.” “Your Excellency,” boldly
replied Óájí Mírzá Siyyid 'Alí, “if others before me, who quaffed joyously
the cup of martyrdom, have chosen to reject an appeal such as the one
you now make to me, know of a certainty that I am no less eager to
decline such a request. My repudiation of the truths enshrined in this
Revelation would be tantamount to a rejection of all the Revelations that
have preceded it. To refuse to acknowledge the Mission of the Siyyid-i-
Báb would be to apostatise from the Faith of my forefathers and to deny
the Divine character of the Message which Mu˙ammad, Jesus, Moses, and

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


all the Prophets of the past have revealed. God knows that whatever I
have heard and read concerning the sayings and doings of those
Messengers, I have been privileged to witness the same from this Youth,
this beloved Kinsman of mine, from His earliest boyhood to this, the
thirtieth year of His life. Everything in Him reminds me of His illustrious
Ancestor and of the imáms of His Faith whose lives our recorded
traditions have portrayed. I only request of you that you allow me to be
the first to lay down my life in the path of my beloved Kinsman.”
The Amír was stupefied by such an answer. In a frenzy of despair, and
without uttering a word, he motioned that he be taken out and beheaded.
As the victim was being conducted to his death, he was heard, several
times, to repeat these words of Óáfiẓ: “Great is my gratitude to Thee, O
my God, for having granted so bountifully all I have asked of Thee.”
“Hear me, O people,” he cried to the multitude that pressed around him;
“I have offered myself up as a willing sacrifice in the path of the Cause of
God. The entire province of Fárs, as well as ‘Iráq, beyond the confines of
Persia, will readily testify to my uprightness of conduct, to my sincere
piety and noble lineage. For over a thousand years, you have prayed and
prayed again that the promised Qá'im be made manifest. At the mention
of His name, how often have you cried, from the depths of your hearts:
'Hasten, O God, His coming; remove every barrier that stands in the way
of His appearance!' And now that He is come, you have driven Him to a
hopeless exile in a remote and sequestered corner of Ádhirbáyján and have
risen to exterminate His companions. Were I to invoke the malediction of
God upon you, I am certain that His avenging wrath would grievously
afflict you. Such is not, however, my prayer. With my last breath, I pray
that the Almighty may wipe away the stain of your guilt and enable you to
awaken from the sleep of heedlessness.”*
*“He took off his turban, and, raising his face towards heaven,
exclaimed, ‘O God, Thou art witness of how they are slaying the son of
Thy most honourable Prophet without fault on his part.' Then he
turned to the executioner and recited this verse: 'How long shall grief
of separation from Him slay me? Cut off my head that Love may
bestow on me a head.’” (Mathnaví, Book 6, p. 649, 1, 2; ed. ‘Alá'u'd-
Dawlih.) (TN Note B, p. 174.)
These words stirred his executioner to his very depths. Pretending that the
sword he had been holding in readiness in his hands required to be
resharpened, he hastily went away, determined never to return again.
“When I was appointed to this service,” he was heard to complain,
weeping bitterly the while, “they undertook to deliver into my hands only
those who had been convicted of murder and highway robbery. I am now
ordered by them to shed the blood of one no less holy than the Imám
Músáy-i-Káẓim himself!” (The Seventh Imám). Shortly after, he departed

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán


for Khurásán and there sought to earn his livelihood as a porter and crier.
To the believers of that province, he recounted the tale of that tragedy,
and expressed his repentance of the act which he had been compelled to
perpetrate. Every time he recalled that incident, every time the name of
Óájí Mírzá Siyyid 'Alí was mentioned to him, tears which he could not
repress flowed from his eyes, tears that were a witness to the affection
which that holy man had instilled into his heart.” [DB ch. 21, p. 446]
8 Óájí is the title of a person who has completed the rite of pilgrimage to
Mecca (called Óáj). This pilgrimage is enjoined on all Muslims who are
able to undertake it. Jináb is a courtesy title (His Honor).
9 Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I, p. 153.
10 Áqá Mírzá Áqá-i-Afnán (Núru'd-Dín), “His mother was a sister of
Khadíjih Bigum, the wife of the Báb, Áqá Mírzá Áqá was born two years
before the Báb’s Declaration. In a Tablet to His wife revealed in the
prison of Máh-Kú, the Báb assures her that when Áqá Mírzá Áqá reaches
the age of maturity, he will be her helper and protector. These prophetic
words of the Báb were fulfilled, for Áqá Mírzá Áqá dedicated his life to
the service of his beloved aunt whom he revered and served with
unbounded devotion. Khadíjih Bigum lovingly taught him the Faith and at
the age of thirteen Áqá Mírzá Áqá recognized the truth of the Mission of
the Báb. . . .From the early days Áqá Mírzá Áqá became the recipient of
many favours and bounties from Bahá’u’lláh. . . .Soon after His
Declaration near Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh sent Nabíl-i-A'ẓam to Persia to
announce the momentous news to the Bábís. Nabíl went to the home of
Áqá Mírzá Áqá and announced the joyful tidings to the believers in
Shíráz. Áqá Mírzá Áqá immediately gave his allegiance to Bahá’u’lláh and
considered himself a humble servant at His threshold. (Adib Taherzadeh, The
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 4, p. 328)
11 Abú'-La'hab, (the name means the “father of flame”) was one of the uncles
of Mu˙ammad who refused to acknowledge the prophethood of
Mu˙ammad and was one of his staunchest opponents. The Súrah of Al-
La'hab, the Súrah (Chapter) 111 of the Qur’án is in reference to him.
12 Mírzá Áqá Ján, the amanuensis of Bahá’u’lláh for forty years. [GPB 115]
13 Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Majíd-i-Shírází was one of the early believers (see The
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I, p. 154).
14 Óájí Siyyid Javád-i-Karbilá’í was one of the prominent believers at the
time of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad (see Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh vol. 1 p.
155).
15 Islamic Traditions: The religion of Islam is supported by two pillars, one is
the Qur’án and the other is Sunnah, the words and deeds (living example)
of the Prophet Mu˙ammad, which were heard or observed by His close
followers and were recorded for posterity. Customarily, the word

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


Tradition (Óadíth) is used in reference to the words or sayings of the
Prophet (the verbal part of Sunnah). The followers of the Shí‘ah sect of
Islam hold that the words and deeds of the Imáms (the descendants of the
Prophet Mu˙ammad through His daughter Fátimih) form a corpus that is
complementary to the Prophetic Sunnah and Traditions. There are a
number of Traditions attributed to some of the Imáms that contain
prophecies regarding the person and appearance of the Qá’im which were
interpreted literarily by the Shí‘ah clergy.
16 The followers of many religions are expecting some special events to take
place that signify the time of the end, coinciding with the coming or
return of their promised one. The most common events and signs are:
First: The rolling up of the heavens.
Second: The sun will be darkened.
Third: The moon shall not give her light.
Fourth: The stars shall fall from heaven.

Fifth: The dead shall arise from their tombs.
Sixth: Ferocious animals will make peace with grazing animals.
Seventh: They will share the same pasture and food.

(from The Brilliant Proof, pp. 31–32)
17 Qá’im (one of the stations claimed by the Báb), the word means “He who
ariseth” or “the one that is standing.” It is the title of the promised one of
Islam whose advent coincides with the Day of Resurrection. Bahá’u’lláh
states “When the Qá’im ariseth, that day is the Day of resurrection.” [KI
π152]
18 Afnán (Literally means “twigs”) are the family of the Báb (cousins, uncles
etc.) who became believers. They chose Afnán as their family name (an
allusion to the Báb being the main trunk of the tree, and they being the
twigs).
19 Quoted from H. M. Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh, The King of Glory. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1980. pp. 164–65.
20 The Islamic concept of the Day of Resurrection is very similar to this
concept in Judaism, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism. In general they
believe that the advent of the promised one of Islam, the Mahdí (literally
meaning the Guided One for Sunnis) or Qá’im (literally meaning the
Standing One or the Rising One for the Shí‘ahs) is coincidental with the
Day of Resurrection. In that day all the dead will rise from their graves in
their physical bodies and will be present in the plane of resurrection. They
will all be judged by the weight of their good deeds. All have to pass over
a bridge (called Ṣerat) that spans Hell and connects the plane of judgment
to Heaven (Paradise). This bridge is narrower than a hair, sharper than a

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán


blade, and longer than any conceivable measure. The people of the right
(those whose good deeds overweigh their bad deeds), will have no trouble
passing over the bridge. The more righteous a person the faster he/she
passes over the bridge. Those whose bad deeds are heavier will fall from
the bridge into Hell. The majority of Muslims believe in corporeal
resurrection and physical Heaven and Hell.
21 The Muslims believe that their promised one (Mahdí or Qá’im) will come
with worldly power and authority, will establish justice and punish the
unjust (Justice and equity will fill the world, in the same manner that
injustice and inequity has filled it up). They believe that he will establish
the ascendancy of Islam and Muslims over all other religions and people
and will kill the nonbelievers (in Shí‘ah belief, even the non-Shí‘ah
Muslims).
22 The followers of the Shí‘ah sect of Islam believe that an authentic and
reliable Tradition from the Prophet Mu˙ammad states: “I leave two things
of value amidst you in trust which if you hold on to, you will never go
astray: the Qur’án and the members of my household. These will never be
separated until the Day of Judgment.” They believe that the “members of
my household” means Imám ‘Alí Ibn-i-Abí†áleb (the cousin and son-in-law
of the Prophet) and ‘Alí’s male descendants (those who were accepted by
the Shí‘ahs as Imáms, the inspired religious leaders, (their number differs,
i.e., four or six or eleven according to different sects)). The main sect of
Shí‘ah Islam (who accept twelve Imáms, ‘Alí and eleven of his
descendants) accept the authority of those whom they call the “Fourteen
Sinless or Inerrant,” — the Prophet Mu˙ammad, Imám ‘Alí, his wife
Fátimih, the daughter of the Prophet, and their accepted male descendants
or Imáms. The “Twelfth Imám” is believed to be the promised one of
Islam, also called Qá’im (the one that is standing) and Mahdí (the guided
one). The Shí‘ah believe that he is the son of the Eleventh Imám, Óasan al-
‘Askarí, who was known not to have a son. There are several stories about
the identity of his mother and his miraculous birth. Some stories hold that
his mother was a slave girl named Ray˙áneh or Ṣaqíl or a Byzantine slave-
girl who was bought by the Tenth Imám, ‘Alí al-Hádí, for his son the
Eleventh Imám, Óasan al-‘Askarí. In some versions of story, the girl was a
princess, the daughter of a Byzantine Emperor, who was informed in a
vision that she would be the mother of the Mahdí. The Twelfth Imám is
believed to have been born in 255 AH/868 AD ( or in some stories five
years later, close to the date of the death of the Eleventh Imám on 260
AH/ 873 AD) in Sámarrá, in Iraq. He was given the same name as the
Prophet, Abu’l-Qásim Mu˙ammad. The miraculous and extraordinary
story of his birth originated from an unknown woman who was a relative
of the Eleventh Imám. She said that she visited the Eleventh Imám’s house
one day and did not see any signs of pregnancy in the Imám’s wife, but

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


when she was leaving in the afternoon, the Imám asked her to stay because
his wife was going to give birth to his son. That night the Imám’s wife
gave birth to a boy, who at the moment of birth prostrated and prayed by
reciting a few Qur’ánic verses. This lady related that when she went back
to the Imám’s house for another visit a few weeks later, she saw a five- or
six-year-old boy playing in the yard. She asked the boy who he was and the
boy told her that he was the child that was born few weeks ago and when
she expressed surprise, the boy said that we (Imáms) grow at an
extraordinary rate. (For more details see Moojan Momen, An Introduction to
Shi‘i Islam, pp. 160–61)
“The usual miraculous accounts of his talking from the womb, etc . . .
may be passed over to the only occasion on which he is said to have
made a public appearance. This was in 260/874 when the Eleventh
Imam died, it appears that none of the Shi‘ih notables knew of the
birth of Mu˙ammad [the “Twelfth Imam”] and so they went to the
Eleventh Imam’s brother, Ja‘far, assuming that he was now the Imam,
Ja‘far seemed prepared to take on this mantel and entered the house of
the deceased Imam in order to lead the funeral prayers. At this juncture
a young boy came forward and said: ‘Uncle, stand back! For it is more
fitting for me to lead the prayers for my father than for you.’ After the
funeral, Ja‘far was asked about the boy and said that he did not know
who the boy was. For this reason, Ja‘far has been vilified by
generations of Shi‘is as Kadhdháb, the liar. The boy was seen no more
and Shi’is tradition states that from that year he went into occultation.
At Sámarrá, beside the gold-domed Shrine of the Imáms ‘Alí al-Hádí
and Óasan al-‘Askarí is a mosque under which there is a cave. The end
of one of the rooms of the cave is partitioned off by a gate which is
called Báb al-Ghayba (Gate of the Occultation) and was built on the
instructions of the Caliph an-Náßir in 606/1209. The area behind the
gate is called Óujrat al-Ghayba (Chamber of the Occultation) and in the
corner of this is a well, the Bi’r al-Ghayba (Well of the Occultation)
down which the Imam Mahdí is said to have disappeared. Shi’is gather
in the rooms of the cave and pray for his return.” (Moojan Momen, An
Introduction to Shi‘i Islam, p. 161)
Shí‘ahs believe that the Twelfth Imám, who was born in 255 AH/868 AD,
is still alive and continues to be in occultation. He is believed to be
residing in two invisible cities called Jábulsá and Jábulqáá, and will
appear at the end of the time prior to the day of resurrection, in which
time he will kill all the nonbelievers and establish the rule of Shí‘ah Islam
over the world. In the mind of a Shí‘ah, the Báb Who was born in Shíráz
in 1819 could not be the Qá’im who was born almost one thousand years
earlier and was to come out of occultation.

The Kitáb-i-ˆqán


23 There are many references in the Shí‘ah holy traditions regarding signs and
events that appear before or at the time of the advent of the Qá’im.
Among them are the rising of the sun from the west and the appearance of
a star the size of the moon from the east. Several of the enemies of the
Shí‘ahs who died many centuries ago will return to fight against him,
among them is Dajjál (the one-eyed disciple of Satan), and many other
signs and event. The Qá’im will kill so many of his enemies with his sword
that their blood will flow like a river that reaches the knees of his horse.
He is expected to promote Islam and establish the rule of the Qur’án.
Contrary to these expectations, the Báb established a new religion and
revealed a new Holy Book.
24 The Shí‘ahs believed that the “Twelfth Imám, did not die but has been
concealed by God from the eyes of men. His life has been miraculously
prolonged until the day when he will manifest himself again by God’s
permission. . . . he is still in control of the affairs of men and is the Lord
of The Age (Ṣá˙ibaz-Zamán). . . . The Hidden Imám was popularly
believed to be resident in the far-off cities of Jábulsá and Jábulqá and in
former times books were written about persons who had succeeded in
traveling to these places. Less has been made of this particular tradition in
recent times when modern geographical knowledge permeated the Shí‘ah
masses and it became generally realized that no such places existed.”
The Hidden Imam, the Imam Mahdí, is in occultation awaiting the time
that God has decreed for his return. This return is envisaged as occur-
ing shortly before the final Day of Judgment. The Hidden Imam will
then return as the Mahdí with a company of his chosen ones and there
will also return his enemies led by one-eyed Dajjál and the Sufyání. The
Imam Mahdí will lead the forces of righteousness against the forces of
evil in one final apocalyptic battle in which the enemies of the Imam
will be defeated. (Momen, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam, pp. 165–66)
25 Some scholars think that for a book of this size (almost 200 pages in
Persian) to be revealed and transcribed within the span of two days and
two nights, the same procedure used in the later instances of revelation, in
which Bahá’u’lláh chanted or spoke the revealed words and His
amanuensis copied the revelation in the form of the “revelation writings”
(kha††-i-tanzíl ﺧﻂ ﺗﻨﺰﯾﻞ), might have been adopted. The text was
subsequently transcribed from the revelation writings. For additional
information see (Symbol & Secret, Qur’an Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 8) and for a sample of the “revelation writings” see
(Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 1, p. 110.)
26 The “Primal Point”, from which have been generated all created things, is
one of the titles of the Báb. He is also called His Holiness the Exalted One.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


27 The above description of the circumstances surrounding the revelation of
the Kitáb-i-ˆqán is partially based on the historical accounts presented by
Adib Taherzadeh in The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I, pp. 152–163.
28 An account of this presentation can be found in Shoghi Effendi:
Recollections by Ugo Giachery on p. 149.
29 H. M. Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory, p. 165, and Shoghi Effendi,
letter dated February 9, 1930, Unfolding Destiny, p. 424.
30 See above Footnotes 1, 2 and 3.
31 See Footnote No. 3 above.
32 Quoted in the book George Townshend, p. 73.

Power and the Bahá’í community
Moojan Momen
Bahá’ís frequently claim that the Bahá’í teachings have the ability
to create a new social order, a new way of organising human society
such that individuals could develop themselves physically, mentally
and spiritually to the utmost of their capability. When trying to
explain what this new social order is, they present the list of social
teachings that was enunciated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during his journeys to
the West a hundred years ago: the oneness of humanity, the equality
of women and men, the need for harmony and balance between
religion and science, the importance of education and so on. While
these social teachings may have sounded new and exciting a century
ago, that is no longer the case today. Even in the middle of the last
century, in 1949, Shoghi Effendi was making this point:
The world has — at least the thinking world — caught up by
now with all the great and universal principles enunciated by
Bahá’u’lláh over 70 years ago, and so of course it does not
sound “new” to them.1
Many other groups are now promoting these social teachings that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke about a century ago. The majority of thinking
people accept them. The problem for humanity now is not accepting
these teachings, but how to implement them. Most people have
accepted the need for the eradication of poverty, for the equality of
women and men, for the removal of racial and other prejudices, and
so on, but despite the fact that this has been well accepted for many
decades, there has been little success in implementing these aims: the
gap between the rich and poor is not closing, women are still unable

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
to progress in society as easily as men, racism still exists in all areas
of social life.
So the problem the world faces is not in the principles that would
lead to a better society but in the application. In its 1985 statement,
The Promise of World Peace, the Universal House of Justice offered
up the Bahá’í community as a model for the world to examine:
The experience of the Bahá’í community may be seen as an
example of this enlarging unity. It is a community of some
three to four million people drawn from many nations,
cultures, classes and creeds, engaged in a wide range of
activities serving the spiritual, social and economic needs of
the peoples of many lands. It is a single social organism,
representative of the diversity of the human family,
conducting its affairs through a system of commonly
accepted consultative principles, and cherishing equally all
the great outpourings of divine guidance in human history.
Its existence is yet another convincing proof of the
practicality of its Founder's vision of a united world, another
evidence that humanity can live as one global society, equal
to whatever challenges its coming of age may entail. If the
Bahá’í experience can contribute in whatever measure to
reinforcing hope in the unity of the human race, we are
happy to offer it as a model for study.
In this passage, the Universal House of Justice is holding up the
Bahá’í community as a model of a new society for study. So the
question arises: in what way is the functioning of the Bahá’í
community as a solution to the problems that society now faces?
What aspects of Bahá’í community life are answers to these
problems? What we need to do is to look at our present society and
try to determine what are the root causes of the problems that it
faces and then to see in what practical ways the functioning of the
Bahá’í community tackles these problems. I am going to deal mainly
with Western societies since these are the only ones about which I
feel I can speak, but what I say may well be also true of other
societies since the conditions I will be describing are by no means
confined to the West and, in any case, the problems the West faces
are gradually seeping out to other parts of the world.
There are of course many problems that the world is facing but I
am going to focus on two partly inter-related problems: first the fact

Power and the Bahá’í Community
that a large proportion of people in our societies feel that they are
excluded because they have no power within society or that they are
unable to participate fully in society because barriers exist that
prevent this. They feel unable to develop fully on account of this and
feel a sense of injustice and consequent resentment. The second
problem is that the balance between individual freedom and central
authority in society has not been satisfactorily resolved. While
authoritarian regimes have been overthrown and democracy
established in many parts of the world, many are now saying that the
balance has shifted too far towards individualism and a lack of
central authority, that the rampant freedom of the capitalist market
has led to a danger of falling into a situation of the 'rule of the
jungle', where the wealthiest and most powerful have free reign to do
what they like. The same situation prevails within religions where
fundamentalists and liberals are locked in conflict over the question
of whether society should be subservient to the authority of
traditional religious forms or whether religion should change and
adapt to accommodate social realities.
Hierarchical, Hegemonic, Patriarchal Society
Returning to the first of these two problems that society faces,
the fact that a large number of people feel excluded from society to
some extent, so pervasive is this that in fact, in most societies, the
majority of people find that they face barriers of one sort or another.
These may be barriers of gender, race, social class or even such things
as the accent with which one speaks. But in all, it means that the
majority of every society faces barriers to some degree, which mean
that they are not treated equally, cannot advance in their occupation,
cannot obtain the same services, cannot live in the same areas and
cannot join in some activities in society. The barriers that are put up
can be minor, such as just having to wait longer than others for the
same service or they can be major such as finding that one’s chosen
occupation is barred to one.
Although there is lip service to equality in many Western societies,
the reality that most people experience is one of constantly coming
up against these barriers. Thus for example, in most Western nations,
the principle of the equality between men and women has been
acknowledged for almost a century and yet women say that they

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
experience what has been called a “glass ceiling” as they develop
professionally and try to advance in their careers. They reach a point
at which further progress seems to be denied them despite their
having the qualifications for it. They see male colleagues with less
experience and perhaps even fewer qualifications being promoted
ahead of them.
This same experience of facing barriers to progress is also
experienced by people from racial and ethnic minorities, from the
lower social classes and by many other groups. In fact the only people
who do not experience this and who therefore obtain the full benefits
of society are, in Western societies, educated white males from the
upper strata of society. It is usually these people who are in positions
where they are analysing their society in an authoritative manner and
initiating change. Thus the social structure is hierarchical and highly
competitive. That which is given the highest value in such societies
are power, authority, control, victory, ownership, courage, strength.
The main interactions are power struggles and competition. The ends
justify the means. Results are expressed in terms of victory or defeat.
There are only rewards for the winners in such a society, none for the
runners-ups. It is epitomised by tradition, institutions, civilisation,
law, and control over the natural world. Those who have power and
wealth are valued, considered important, are consulted about major
decisions and are listened to when they protest. Those who have no
power or wealth are not valued, not considered important, are not
consulted on major decisions and not listened to when they protest.
As a result of having their ideas disparaged and discounted as they
grow up, they often cease to have ideas of their own and merely
repeat what the newspapers and political demagogues tell them is
true. Decisions in such societies are made by just one man or a small
group of men and are then handed down to be carried out. The social
structures in these societies are pyramidal with one or a few people at
the top and increasing numbers as one goes down. This is what is
meant by a hierarchical society.
The fundamental problem underlying this situation is the fact that
we live in societies that are patriarchal or hegemonic. The word
patriarchy means ‘rule by men’ and implies a domination of society
by men. The majority of positions of power and authority whether
this be in government, business, professional or even in recreational
and informal groups and societies are held by men. The concept of a
patriarchal society goes, however, beyond just the fact of the gender

Power and the Bahá’í Community
of those in authority. For example Britain went through a period of
almost two decades when there was a female sovereign and female
Prime Minister, but this did not change the fact that Britain was a
patriarchal society. If a woman wants to reach the higher echelons of
society, she must masculinize herself, become competitive and
aggressive, become more male than the men. There is considerable
evidence that girls are inherently less competitive and more co-
operative than boys. Therefore in any society where power is the
highest value and there are no other constraints, girls/women will
usually be dominated by boys/men. In modern Western societies
where almost all positions of power are awarded on the basis of
competitiveness (either in the form of outright competition for the
post or through interviews where competitiveness is given the highest
value), the inevitable result is that men dominate most positions of
power in the society. This is the patriarchal society.2
One might think that the sorts of totalitarian regimes that existed
in Europe in the inter-war years of the twentieth century or which
exist today in many parts of the world are the only remaining
hierarchical societies and that democratic Western societies are not
hierarchical but there is just as much of a hidden hierarchy in
Western societies as in any totalitarian state. The relatively small
number of people at the top of the hierarchy in Western states
control the political process, the newspapers and other media, the
education system, the justice system and all other important areas of
life. Through this control, they also control the discourse of society.
It is their opinions that are heard on the television, read in the
newspapers and put into the textbooks studied at schools and
universities; theirs is the only discourse that gets publicity and is thus
regarded as the norm for the society; they have a hegemony over the
norms, values and discourses of society. The voices of those lower
down the hierarchy are ignored, considered unimportant and
marginal; their experiences of social barriers and prejudice are
regarded as the “rumblings of social malcontents”. This is the
hegemonic society.
Thus our modern societies, no matter where we live in the world,
are hierarchical, patriarchal hegemonic societies. In the West, there
may not be tanks in the streets enforcing the hierarchy, but all such
societies depend upon force to maintain the pyramid of power. In the
West, this compulsion is maintained through the law and the police
force. This situation is not one that is easy to change. Those with

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
authority and power control the communications media and
education. They therefore are in a position to impose their worldview
on others. Women and other groups low down the hierarchy have one
of two alternatives in this situation. They can accept the system and
continue to hold a lower place in society. If they wish to try to beat
the system can only do so by competing with those already in power.
Power is thus corrosive and subversive. Even in a democratic
process, the attempt to gain power is itself corrosive. If a group
wants to bring about social justice and a more egalitarian society, it
has to gain power in order to bring this about. It thinks that if it
gains power, it will control the state and then it can use the state to
achieve its goals of social justice and a more egalitarian society. It
forms a political party and starts to campaign to gain votes. But in
this process, it is being diverted from its goal of achieving social
justice and a more egalitarian society and its goal is now achieving
power. Everything becomes subordinated to this goal. Achieving
power now becomes the main goal of the group and other goals such
as social justice become secondary. What happens in practice is that
once the party is successful and has achieved power, the hierarchy
remains the same B remaining in power has the highest priority. To
this priority the lower goals such as social justice and a more
egalitarian society are readily sacrificed. The people who voted for
the party feel betrayed as they see the party chasing after those who
wield influence and have social power and failing to implement
anything that benefits them.3
Thus the values of the patriarchal, hierarchical hegemonic society
are subversive; they subvert those that try to defeat them. This has
been what successive revolutions from the 18th century onwards have
found. The French Revolution and the various Communist
Revolutions that have occurred have all been in the name of creating
a more egalitarian society, where power is no longer the highest value.
Those that led these revolutions were however forced to seize power
and in doing so found their initial values subverted. The result was a
society that was just as hierarchical as before, but with merely a
different set of people in power.4
All groups that are low in the social hierarchy, whether women,
racial and ethnic minorities or people of lower social class or status
face much the same sorts of barriers and problems. Indeed if one
considers that half of society is women and then adds in the various

Power and the Bahá’í Community
ethnic and class groups who are also dominated by the white upper
and middle class males who are at the top of the social hierarchy, one
can see that in Western societies where we are all supposed to be equal,
it is only a small percentage who have full access to the benefits and
opportunities and the majority are a good deal less “equal” than them.
A further fact that makes it difficult to achieve any change is that
in patriarchal societies, it is very difficult to even gain an
acknowledgement of the fact that a problem exists. It is men from
the dominant group who control the communications media and the
education system; it they who are the journalists, the newspaper
editors, the social analysts, the professors of social sciences and these
men experience no barriers and therefore see no problem. The
rhetoric coming from these leaders of society is that their societies
are fair and democratic with equal opportunities for all. These
individuals at the top of the hierarchy have not experienced life in the
lower levels of the hierarchy, they have not come across any social
barriers or obstacles in their careers or faced prejudice and injustice.
They therefore can truthfully say that “ours is an open society; people
get to the top through merit alone” — and therefore there is no need
for any change.
The Bahá’í Answer to the Hierarchical,
Hegemonic, Patriarchal Society
It can be seen that because of its unseen barriers and subversive
nature, it is not a very easy matter to contemplate changing such a
society. The question then arises as to whether the Bahá’í Faith has
any answers to this difficult situation. Since the Bahá’í Faith aims for
equality between men and women and to bring into being a more
egalitarian society, how does the Bahá’í Faith seek to resolve this
problem? It can be seen from the above that a very radical change is
needed and furthermore it must be a change that does not inherently
find itself subverted.
Firstly of course, a set of values is needed that does not place
power and wealth at the highest level; but this is perhaps the easiest
part of the process. Most religions offer a set of values that
emphasise the importance of values such as love, service, humility
etc. and indeed most religions teach that wealth can be a barrier to
spiritual progress. The Bahá’í Faith has similar teachings. There are a

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
large number of quotations from the Bahá’í scriptures asserting the
equality of all human beings, for example, and others that assert the
equality of men and women.
Even in the earliest stages of its history, the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths
have been engaged in overturning the power structures that formed
the foundations of society. When the Báb praised a simple sifter of
wheat for having discerned the truth and recognized him before all of
the learned class of Isfahan, when the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh asserted
that understanding religious truth did not depend on the years of
book learning that the Islamic learned classes engaged upon at their
religious colleges but rather on purity and spiritual discernment that
could be cultivated by anyone, they were in effect laying an axe to
the foundations of the hegemonic social structure that prized the
book learning of the religious class and gave them authority and
privileges on account of that.
In a letter written on 14 March 1927 to the Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of Istanbul, the Guardian's Secretary explained, on his
behalf, the principle in the Cause of action by majority vote. He
pointed out how, in the past, it was certain individuals who
“accounted themselves as superior in knowledge and elevated in
position” who caused division, and that it was those “who pretended
to be the most distinguished of all” who “always proved themselves to
be the source of contention.” “But praise be to God,” he continued,
“that the Pen of Glory has done away with the unyielding and
dictatorial views of the learned and the wise, dismissed the assertions
of individuals as an authoritative criterion, even though they were
recognized as the most accomplished and learned among men and
ordained that all matters be referred to authorized centres and specified
Assemblies. Even so, no Assembly has been invested with the absolute
authority to deal with such general matters as affect the interests of
nations. Nay rather, He has brought all the assemblies together under
the shadow of one House of Justice, one divinely appointed Centre,
so that there would be only one Centre and all the rest integrated into
a single body, revolving around one expressly designated Pivot, thus
making them all proof against schism and division.”5
‘Abdu’l-Bahá carried this process forward defining some of the
words associated with the hegemonic push towards competitiveness
in such a way as to subvert their meanings. Thus for example,

Power and the Bahá’í Community
regarding the word “victory”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes that for the Bahá’í
Cause: “its victory is to submit and yield” [SWAB 256] and he quotes
Bahá’u’lláh as stating: “Therefore, today, `victory' neither hath been,
nor will be opposition to anyone, nor strife with any person; but
rather what is well-pleasing—this is, that the cities of men's hearts,
which are under the dominion of the hosts of selfishness and lust,
should be subdued by the sword of the Word of Wisdom, and of
Exhortation.”6 Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá subverts the concept of
competition from its usual role in a masculine society, that of gaining
power, and instead promotes it as an approach in the arena of
service: “Vie ye with each other in the service of God and of His
Cause. This is indeed what profiteth you in this world, and in that
which is to come” [qtd in ADJ 83]. The goal of personal ambition and
the source of greatest glory do not belong, in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
estimation, to the person who seizes power but to the person who
excels in service to “human uplift and betterment” [PUP 353] and to
“the cause of the Most Great Peace” [PUP 123].
It is all very well to have egalitarian values and to subvert the
foundations of the hegemonic society, but the question remains of
what you put in its place. Many individuals and groups have had these
principles but have not been able to transform them into practice
because of the subversive nature of power. What is needed is to have
some way to get these values prevalent in society without having
them subverted. How does one set up a community that is more
egalitarian? The Bahá’í community in fact provides a model for just
such a social system.
First, the Bahá’í community does not contend for power. Those
who have wanted to change society have always thought that the way
to do this is to seize control of the state and that it would then be
possible to use the power of the state to change society. They have
therefore either taken the revolutionary road to power (as in the
French Revolution and the various communist revolutions) or they
have tried the democratic route, as with various democratic socialist
parties. Apart from the pitfall of the subversion of their egalitarian
values which has been discussed above and which they all suffered,
what they have failed to appreciate is that the power of the state is
largely illusionary. The state is but one element in a nexus of actors and
by itself, it has only a limited ability to make changes. It cannot by itself

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
change the social structure, for example, since it is the social structure
that is supporting the state and to try to change it risks destabilizing
the state itself. The Bahá’í community eschews the route to power as
a means of effecting a change in society. It refrains from all
involvement in partisan politics, recognising that any such involvement
risks subverting its values and ultimately frustrating its goals.
Second, in the Bahá’í community power does not rest with
individuals. There are no priests or any other religious professionals
with any special power or authority by virtue of their position.
Authority rests with institutions acting as institutions. It is true of
course that individuals are elected onto these institutions but these
individuals hold no power or authority in their own right. Even the
chairman of a National Spiritual Assembly, the national governing
body of the Bahá’ís in an area, has no individual authority. A member
of the National Spiritual Assembly is still subject to the authority of
the local governing board, the Local Spiritual Assembly, in the area
where he or she lives. All authority rests with the institutions making
decisions as a body. There are individual appointments made to
positions such as the Boards of Counsellors and the Auxiliary Board,
but these appointees play only an exhortatory and advisory role. They
hold no authority or power.
Third, decisions are made in the Bahá’í community through
consultation. The Bahá’í process of consultation is one which
encourages all those taking part to participate. This helps to draw out
members of minority groups and races as well as lower social classes
who do not feel confident enough to speak in group settings. The
Bahá’í ideal of consultation provides a safe and encouraging
environment for such people to express their views. Indeed, just as
men are better at competition, women are inherently better in the co-
operative environment produced by the consultation process. In such
an environment, they therefore feel comfortable in putting forward
their views (which is not the case in a highly competitive
environment) and they are able to play a major role in Bahá’í
community life.
There are also other provisions in Bahá’í community life which are
aimed at encouraging minorities. The Bahá’í Faith has been spread
through planned action. In these plans, a deliberate effort has been
made to bring into the community every type of minority living in a

Power and the Bahá’í Community
particular area. This has been assisted by having, as part of these same
plans, Bahá’í literature translated into as many languages as possible.
Another example is the fact that, in Bahá’í elections, if there is a tied
vote, then if one of those tied is from a minority, that person is
automatically declared the winner of the tie.
A Practical Path to a Different Society
It is however, in the last two decades that the Bahá’í community
has produced a practical path forward that all, whether Bahá’í or not,
can follow in creating a more egalitarian society. Since about 1996,
the Bahá’í community has been engaged in a programme of action
that works to mitigate and counter many of the worst features of the
hierarchical society. The central feature of this programme is a course
of participatory learning designed to develop the human resources
within a community. The course encourages people, especially those
at the base of the power pyramid who have been used to having their
ideas disparaged and discounted and have ceased to think for
themselves, to start to think, to develop ideas, and, in the protected
consultative environment of the course, to start to have the
confidence to express those ideas. Furthermore, the course focuses
on the spiritual aspects of the human being, encouraging the growth
of a spirit of selflessness and service. As a result, people are
encouraged to engage in acts of service. They are initially trained to
do such service as organising children’s moral education classes,
junior youth empowerment programmes, devotional meetings, home
visits and accompanying others in their path of service. These acts of
service then enable participants to have ideas about the needs of the
community and how to address these. Thus participants in the courses
are trained not only to develop their own ideas and have the
confidence to express them but also, through acts of service, they
begin to see the reality around them and to have thoughts about how
to address the problems of their community.
All of this is then brought to the cluster reflection meetings where
those attending reflect on what has occurred previously and with
input from Bahá’í administrative bodies and from ideas arising from
their own study groups and service projects, they consult upon the
needs of the area and how these can be addressed realistically with the
resources available. These study courses and reflection meetings are

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
not confined to Bahá’ís. Anyone interested can engage with this
process, can take part in the study courses, can carry out the acts of
service and can participate in the reflection meetings. In this way, the
power to change their own community is devolved down in a
meaningful way to the members of that community.
If we were to create in this way more egalitarian societies, this
would not just solve the problem that large numbers of people feel
alienated and unjustly treated by the structures of the hierarchical
society, it would help towards resolving other social problems as well.
To reduce the competitiveness and aggressiveness associated with the
patriarchal, hegemonic society would also be a major step towards
world peace since this competitiveness and aggressiveness also feeds
across from a society's internal affairs into its external foreign
affairs and results in undue aggressiveness and lack of co-operation
at the international level. A higher value being placed on co-
operation within our societies would result in a higher level of co-
operation in global affairs and in resolving global problems. The
greater involvement of women in social affairs would in itself also be
conducive to world peace according to the Bahá’í teachings.
The competitiveness of the business world is a major contributor
to pollution and environmental degradation. The competitiveness
that the patriarchal society demands results in an inexorable pressure
to reduce costs often with the result of increased pollution. If local
environmental regulations prevent this pollution then modern
business instead of accepting this as a price worth paying moves its
factories to elsewhere in the world where the environmental
regulations
are
not
so
strict.
Unfortunately
although
the
environmental regulations are local in their effects, the pollution
caused by these companies respects no borders and is world-wide in
its effects. A society that is not so driven by the urge to be
competitive would also be inherently less polluting.
Thus to produce more egalitarian less hierarchical societies would
help in the resolution of many of the problems that the world faces
from the alienation and sense of injustice that breeds civil unrest,
vandalism and violence to global problems such as war and
environmental pollution.

Power and the Bahá’í Community
Individualism and Authority
A second area that is causing a deal of turmoil for many because it
is a problem that has not been successfully resolved in any society is
the balance between individuality and authority in society and the
associated problem of how to maintain a balance between centralised
national or international authority and local initiative and
independence. The balance between these has not been successfully
achieved in any society. In those societies that have swung too far
towards individuality, the cult of the individual threatens the
cohesion and moral order of society. Using the pretext of personal
freedom, some individuals are subjecting others to virtual slavery
(driving the poor into financial debt that makes them virtual slaves of
the owners of their debts), sexual abuse, and the physical and sexual
abuse of children. The opposite extreme is that of the sort of
collectivism seen in communist societies, where the individual is
suppressed completely, supposedly for the benefit of the community.
Neither extreme allows either full human development or human
prosperity. Of course, all human beings are individuals and must be
given the freedom to develop their talents and potential, but to allow
that freedom to go to excess, where human beings are given the
freedom to sink to the level of animal behaviour and to oppress
others stunts human development and causes society to fall apart in
corruption and moral decadence. Similarly excessive centralized
control stifles human initiative and leads to loss of morale and
enthusiasm for projects because people do not feel involved in the
decisions that affect their lives.
These two extremes of excessive individualism and excessive
control can be seen operating in many situations in the world.
Broadly speaking, the United States of America leans towards the
extreme of individualism and rights to liberty in all areas. In practice,
this means that those with money and power use this liberty to
control the communications media and the political process to their
advantage and in order to impose their aims on society. Thus
paradoxically, in precisely those societies where the most freedom is
given to the individual, the result is that the individual is most
manipulated by commercial and other interests. Western Europe has,
on the other hand, moved towards centralized control and many
aspects of daily life are regulated by the centralized authority of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
European Union. The result is that people feel remote from the
decision-making process and therefore feel increasingly justified in
rebelling against it or ignoring it. There are of course many areas of
the world where centralized authoritarian political regimes go much
further than Europe and these regimes suppress individual initiative
even more and result in a loss of morale and initiative in their populations.
These extremes are not confined to political structures however.
Matters such as international aid have swung across the pendulum
from a strict centralised control of methods and means of deploying
international aid — often leading to inappropriate aid being given
because the people at the centre do not know what is appropriate —
to a much more relaxed system with decisions being made locally —
often resulting in corruption and dissipation of effort. In religions in
particular this tension can be seen as one of the most prominent
features of religious life in the past century. In almost every religious
group there is some degree of conflict between those who hold to a
strict central doctrinal and organisational authority in the religion
(often associated with religious fundamentalism) and those who want
to free the individual believers to think freely about religious ideas
and to experience the religion in ways that suit each individual (often
described as religious liberalism).
In the Bahá’í Faith there are several aspects to achieving the right
balance between individual liberty and centralized authority. While
Bahá’u’lláh on the one hand applauds democracy and commends
Queen Victoria for having “entrusted the reins of counsel into the
hands of the representatives of the people” [PB 34],7 he also, on the
other hand, condemns the excess of liberty that leads to
libertarianism and states that it will “exercise a pernicious influence
upon men” [GWB 216]. Shoghi Effendi summarises this by stating that
“The Bahá’í conception of social life... neither suppresses the
individual nor does it exalt him to the point of making him an
anti-social creature, a menace to society. As in everything, it follows
the ‘golden mean’” [UD 435-436].
As in the case of achieving a more egalitarian society, there are
many groups and movements other than the Bahá’ís who agree with
Shoghi Effendi's view that the ideal is to achieve this ‘golden mean’.
However in practice, we find that societies and groups either
gravitate towards one extreme or the other or else they swing like a

Power and the Bahá’í Community
pendulum between the two extremes. It appears that no society or
large group has succeeded in finding a way of remaining at the
‘golden mean’. It is in the practicalities of how to achieve this state
that they have failed.
Once again, the Bahá’í community provides a model of how to
achieve this balance. This is achieved in the Bahá’í community
through an innovative separation between power and authority. In
most societies, organisation and groups, it is taken for granted that
those in authority should also be given the power to enforce their
authority. Thus mechanisms of enforcement are enacted to compel
those who are members of that society or group to follow the
directives of those that are in authority. These may be laws for a
society or codes of discipline in organisations or rules in the case of
groups. Those who are in authority are given the power to sanction
whoever fails to follow their directives.
In the Bahá’í community, however, there is an attempt to separate
authority and power to some extent. We have noted above that
individuals have neither authority nor power in the Bahá’í
community. The elected institutions of the Bahá’í community have
the authority to direct the affairs of the community, but their
obligation is to try to achieve their objectives through winning the
support of the individual Bahá’ís. Shoghi Effendi addressing primarily
the members of the elected Bahá’í institutions states:
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause of God
is not dictatorial authority but humble fellowship, not
arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank and loving
consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of a true Bahá’í can
hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and justice, of
freedom and submission, of the sanctity of the right of the
individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion and
prudence on the one hand, and fellowship, candor, and
courage on the other. [BA 63-64]
The elected Bahá’í institutions have, in effect, very little power to
enforce their authority in many areas when compared with the central
authorities of other religions. They have no doctrinal authority; no
authority to determine correct doctrine or to create new doctrine or
theological teachings, nor to interpret the texts of the scripture. Thus
they hold no power in many areas over which religious leadership has

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
traditionally held both power and authority. They have the authority
to direct the Bahá’í community by laying out plans of action for the
Bahá’ís, but they have no sanctions or other means of compelling the
Bahá’ís to carry out these plans. If any Bahá’í, for example, wants to
completely ignore the present Five Year Plan of the Universal House
of Justice, they are free to do so without any fear of sanctions
against them. The general situation is summed up in the words of the
Universal House of Justice thus:
Authority and direction flow from the Assemblies, whereas
the power to accomplish the tasks resides primarily in the
entire body of the believers.8
The power that the elected institutions have over the believers can
only be exercised in extreme situations and is thus rarely encountered
by the average Bahá’í. This power involves Bahá’ís who actions go
outside certain limits. These include for example administrative
sanctions against Bahá’ís who bring the Bahá’í Faith into disrepute,
perhaps by their disregard for the moral code of society (however
what Bahá’ís do privately is not usually a cause of action by the
Bahá’í institutions). More severe sanctions are taken towards those
who seek to create division and sectarianism in the Bahá’í community
(however holding differing opinions is not sanctionable, it is only
when an individual attempts to create a sect or grouping around such
an opinion that sanctions may be applied). The overwhelming
majority of Bahá’ís will not however experience this.
If Bahá’ís have such freedom of thought and freedom to disregard
the exhortations of their institutions, what is it then that preserves
the unity of the Bahá’í community (for if the Bahá’í Faith is to
achieve its stated goal of uniting humanity, it is obvious that it itself
must remain united). The principal mechanism whereby the individual
is granted freedom of thought in the Bahá’í Faith and yet unity is
maintained is that of the Covenant. In the Bahá’í Faith, there is no
doctrine or creed about the nature of God or the nature of
Bahá’u’lláh to which the individual is obliged to assent. Bahá’ís are
free to read the scriptures for themselves and to come to their
understanding of theological matters. The only limit on Bahá’ís is
that they cannot claim that their understanding of theological matters
is authoritative or binding on any other Bahá’í (and thereby attempt
to set up a cabal or sectarian grouping). Only the interpretations of

Power and the Bahá’í Community
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi are authoritative. Since both
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi are deceased, their writings have
effectively become part of the scripture or authoritative text. There
is no longer any living authoritative interpretation in the Bahá’í
Faith. What preserves the unity of the Bahá’í community in the face
of this ideological individualism is the concept of the Covenant —
that all Bahá’ís pledge themselves to obeying the instructions of the
Focal Centre of the Covenant, which since 1963 has been the
Universal House of Justice. Since the Universal House of Justice is
not a body that creates doctrine or dogma but rather a body that
directs the affairs of the Bahá’í community, obedience to the
instructions of the Focal Centre of the Covenant does not limit the
individual's freedom to think whatever they wish about theological
matters, but only their freedom to act in ways that would set up sects
and cliques around such individual interpretation.
Another aspect of the balance between centralized authority and
local democracy in the Bahá’í community is the fact that the
authority and powers of the local governing councils of the Bahá’í
community have been laid down in authoritative Bahá’í texts. The
local governing councils have inherent rights over matters that are
purely confined to their locality, an authority that cannot be
removed by the decision of the national body. Thus one cannot have
the situation that has occurred in many countries where the local
governing authorities have had their rights stripped away by the
desire of the national government to centralize and control all
aspects of the nation's life.
In all aspects of Bahá’í community life, the emphasis is on
decentralization — handing down to the local level everything that
can appropriately be administered at the local level. “It [the
world-wide Law of Bahá’u’lláh) repudiates excessive centralization on
one hand, and disclaims all attempts at uniformity on the other. Its
watchword is unity in diversity” [WOB 42]. But to offset problems
that may arise from such decentralization — where local prejudices may
discriminate against some individuals or groups, individual Bahá’ís
are given substantial powers to appeal the decisions of their local
body to the national and even, if necessary, to the international level.
In the pre-modern period, individuals, except for the elite in
society were given a script at birth which they were expected to

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
follow and which severely limited their choices in all aspects of their
lives. This script however, as long as they followed, gave them a
socially-recognised identity, a guaranteed place in society and made
them feel included in the workings of their community. The
individualism of contemporary society means that people are free to
tear up the script that they are given at birth and write their own
script in terms of their individual choices. This individualism,
however, leaves most individuals with no assigned or recognized
social interactions that can make them feel part of a community, an
anomie resulting in no social structure to which a person can relate.
Throughout most of human history it has been religion that formed
the glue binding individuals to their communities. Having cast
religion aside, most individuals in the twentieth century experimented
with various social and political ideologies, such as communism,
nationalism and racism, which tried to take the place of religion in
linking the individual into a community. All of ideologies failed with
disastrous consequences for the societies that tried to adopt them.
What the Bahá’í Faith offers is a modern religion, free of the
superstition and irrationality that marks much of traditional religion,
and offering a pathway for the individual to link into a community
united in constructive action and service; giving that individual
interpersonal links that can give that person a feeling of belonging
and interconnectedness.
The Maturity of Humanity
I would like to suggest that these two aspects of the social
dynamics of the Bahá’í community which we have discussed, the
removal of hierarchies of power and the achievement of a balance
between society and the individual, can be thought of as related to
the statement that has been made by Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi
Effendi: that humanity is just entering its collective stage of maturity.
No sooner had mankind attained the stage of maturity, than the
Word revealed to men's eyes the latent energies with which it
had been endowed — energies which manifested themselves in
the plenitude of their glory when the Ancient Beauty
appeared, in the year sixty, in the person of `Alí-Muhammad,
the Báb. [Bahá’u’lláh: GWB 77-78]

Power and the Bahá’í Community
Similarly, there are periods and stages in the life of the
aggregate world of humanity, which at one time was passing
through its degree of childhood, at another its time of youth
but now has entered its long presaged period of maturity, the
evidences of which are everywhere visible and apparent.
Therefore, the requirements and conditions of former
periods have changed and merged into exigencies which
distinctly characterize the present age of the world of
mankind ... The gifts and graces of the period of youth,
although timely and sufficient during the adolescence of the
world of mankind, are now incapable of meeting the
requirements of its maturity. The playthings of childhood and
infancy no longer satisfy or interest the adult mind. [‘Abdu’l-
Bahá: PUP 438-439]
Such is the stage to which an evolving humanity is
collectively approaching. The Revelation entrusted by the
Almighty Ordainer to Bahá’u’lláh, His followers firmly
believe, has been endowed with such potentialities as are
commensurate with the maturity of the human race — the
crowning and most momentous stage in its evolution from
infancy to manhood. [Shoghi Effendi: WOB 165]
If one considers this metaphor, then it can be seen that what we
have been discussing in this paper fits this metaphor well. When one
is dealing with children, one imposes a hierarchy of power over them
and instructs them as what they should do and not do. One has both
power and authority over them. In the same way, in accordance with
the Bahá’í model of progressive revelation, the religions that came
during the collective infancy of humanity encouraged and resulted in
hierarchical forms of society where people who had power and
learning dominated those who did not. As a child grows into
adolescence and eventually to maturity, the wise parents will
gradually reduce the orders and instructions given to the child and
increasingly allow the child to take responsibility for itself. They
hand the power that they exerted over the individual as a child over
to that individual once he or she reaches adolescence and maturity.
This flattening of hierarchies and handing over power to mature
responsible individuals can be seen as the appropriate response as
humanity reaches its collective maturity. The Bahá’í teachings
maintain that this is now the stage in the evolution of humanity's

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
social life where this collective maturity is occurring and a new social
order is needed to accommodate this change.
Conclusion
One objection that can be raised is that while these considerations
may be true of the Bahá’í community, can they be applied to society
as a whole. Can one, for example, really run a society in which the
local or national administrative authorities do not have power? Of
course, one has to say immediately that where extremes of human
behaviour are concerned — criminal activity, for example — then the
authorities must also have the power to arrest, try and punish such
individuals. But the Bahá’í administrative institutions have those
powers to deal with such extreme individuals also, as mentioned
above. However, in the lives of ordinary people going about their
everyday activities, the Bahá’í teachings would point towards a
greater reliance on the maturity and sense of responsibility of
individuals to be given the power to regulate their own affairs. This
would involve the handing over by national government to local
authorities of a greater degree of the responsibility for the conduct
of all local matters such as education, health and policing. But it
would in turn mean a far greater involvement, through genuine
consultative processes, of the individual citizens in the running of
their local communities. Individual citizens would in turn have to
take the responsibility of educating themselves in local issues so that
they are not manipulated by single-issue pressure groups or vested
commercial and financial interests.
This approach has wide-ranging implications in many aspects of
social life beyond just that of the political system. In relationship to
employment practices, this approach would also mean the rolling
back of the present trend towards ever greater management control
of workers in both the public and private sector, allowing people to
do their jobs without incessantly seeking to control the way they do
their jobs and setting targets and requiring paper-work which both
consumes time and distorts activity.
Of course such rolling back of the power of both individuals and
institutions cannot occur without a corresponding advance in the
sense of responsibility and the maturity of individuals so that the

Power and the Bahá’í Community
vacuum created is adequately filled. This requires individuals who are
mature enough to participate in social activity in a constructive and
balanced manner. It requires an uprightness of conduct and a
commitment to social involvement by all of the individuals in a
society well in excess of what is the current norm. This in turn
requires spiritual resources in the individual which is, of course, a
subject that is too large to go into in this paper.
The whole process can envisaged as a disempowerment of the
hierarchy of power and an empowerment of individuals to take over
many of the essential social functions at present being carried out, in
an unsatisfactory and unjust manner, by the power hierarchy. There
will undoubtedly be a continuing need for an authority structure to
coordinate more complex social functions at the local level and also
those activities that are better managed at a regional and national
level. Such institutions, which will of course be elected bodies, will
also need to have powers of last resort in matters of criminality and
social deviance. But the principle of de-centralization means that
these wider social functions and powers will be kept to a minimum.
At present, most activities that affect the lives of ordinary Bahá’ís
are consulted upon and decided at the local level at reflection
meetings by the people involved themselves. It seems likely then that
in government also most activities that affect the lives of ordinary
people will be consulted upon, agreed and carried out by the people
involved themselves. The present Bahá’í administrative order
provides a model for the functioning of such a social structure.
It is, however, worth pointing out that the Bahá’í community as a
whole, after several decades of concentrating upon the geographical
expansion of the Bahá’í Faith is now engaged, in the latest Five-Year
Plans upon activities which are designed to create precisely the sort
of human resources that would be needed for the successful
application of such a model of community and society: training
programmes to help individuals to take part in consultative decision-
making. This is moreover, not just a training programme for Bahá’ís;
rather it is thrown open to all to both participate in the training and
participate in the programmes of social action that emerge from the
training. The stated aim of the present plans in the Bahá’í community
is to move from the type of community characterised by the passivity

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
of the congregation to one where the brunt of the activity and
responsibilities are borne by the membership as a whole.
Of course the Bahá’í community is only at the very beginning of
this process. At present, the Bahá’í community still largely reflects
the wider society. Most Bahá’í communities are still run by a handful
of individuals. But during the twentieth century, great strides were
taken in transferring power and authority from individuals to
institutions, followed by a process of devolving power and authority
from central institutions to local institutions. The final part of this
process — developing the capabilities of the generality of the community
so that power can be handed on to them and they will take up this
responsibility — is the aims of the current series of Five-Year Plans.
Lastly, I think all of this also has great implications for the way in
which Bahá’ís present themselves. Bahá’ís have been used to
presenting the Bahá’í Faith as having the answers to all of society's
ills. This can seem arrogant to some and naive to others. It would
seem preferable and closer to reality to present the Bahá’í community
as one that has a mechanism through which all, whether Bahá’ís or
merely interested individuals, can gather, consult and create together
plans of social action designed to solve problems of society.
In the West, the Bahá’ís are facing a situation where there is a new
religious scene that is affecting them very negatively. The main
feature of this scene is the fact that, while an interest in spiritual
matters is undoubtedly increasing, the type of religiosity that is on
the increase is not assisting the Bahá’í Faith. There are two main areas
in which religion is on the rise:
1. Ultra-traditionalist religion — in almost all parts of the world,
the traditional religion of each area is seeing a resurgence of what is
usually called fundamentalism. The uncertainties and bewildering
choices open to people in modern life together with the
accompanying decline in morals and standards as people take
advantage of the freedoms given to them by modern society has
caused a reaction whereby people are turning back to the certainties
and what they perceive to have been the higher moral standards of
traditional religion. Such people want to turn the clock back two or
three hundred years and return to a world where traditional religion
and its accompanying traditional values and morals were the centre of

Power and the Bahá’í Community
society. Clearly the Bahá’í Faith, representing as it does in every part
of the world a new religion that is in competition with the traditional
religion, is not going to find favour with such religiosity. (Of course
the Bahá’í Faith does itself have very high moral and ethical standards
and does agree with traditional religion in many areas and this is
certainly an avenue that can be explored in presenting the Bahá’í Faith
to people from such a background.)
2. New Age religiosity — people are increasingly rejecting formal
affiliation with any organised and established religion in favour of a
highly-individualised pick-and-mix type of religiosity. They take ideas
from every type of religion, (often from Eastern religions: chakras,
reincarnation, astrology, etc.) and dabble in various types of religious
practice (such as meditation or repetitive chanting), ending up with a
medley of ideas and practices that is to their liking. Such people will
often attend Bahá’í meetings, express their admiration for some
Bahá’í ideas, but they will refrain from actually joining the Bahá’í
community, either because they firmly believe in some idea, such as
reincarnation, that is rejected in the Bahá’í teachings or because they
just do not feel comfortable joining an organised religious group.
Perhaps a deeper underlying reason that many such people do not join
the Bahá’í community is that the Bahá’ís do not offer the sort of
quick-fix spirituality that is the claim made by many groups. To join
the Bahá’í community involves oneself in commitment and a long
hard spiritual struggle and such a prospect may not be enticing for
such people. Also the Bahá’í community does not offer the sort of
immediate experiential religion offered by many successful religious
groups.
The result of all this is that the Bahá’í Faith is not benefiting from
the resurgence of interest in things spiritual that has been occurring.
It is neither a traditional religion to be able to benefit from the rise
in fundamentalism, while people who are engaged in the New Age
movement may express appreciation of its teachings and may adopt
them into their personal spirituality, they are not likely to want to
make the commitments that becoming a Bahá’í entails.
Therefore in relation to the question of the presentation of the
Bahá’í Faith, what the above analysis is intended to demonstrate is
that the Bahá’í community is addressing and has developed ways of
tackling some of the major problems that beset human society.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Therefore it may be that in the present climate of pick-and-mix
religiosity, of people not being willing to commit themselves to
organised religion, it may be more productive to try to bring to
people’s attention the nature of the sort of society that the Bahá’í
Faith is seeking to bring about and the steps the Bahá’í community is
taking to bring this about — to show that this sort of society can deal
with the social problems that we face and to demonstrate that this
sort of society can resolve some of the tensions in modern society.
The implication of this presentation of the Bahá’í Faith is of course
that if one wishes to tackle these problems, the most effective way to
do so would be to become part of a process that has a pattern of
social dynamics with at least a potential for solving some of these
problems, whether that be as a fully committed member of the Bahá’í
Faith or as someone who merely wishes to participate in the
processes, plans and activities being carried out.


NOTES
1 Shoghi Effendi, in “The Importance of Deepening,” Compilation of
Compilations, p. 230
2 See analysis of this in Marilyn French, Beyond Power, London: Abacus,
1985.
3 See the analysis of this in John Holloway, Change The World Without
Taking Power. The Meaning of Revolution Today, London: Pluto Press
2002, pp. 13-18
4 George Orwell's Animal Farm brilliantly describes this process.
5 Translated from the Persian. The Universal House of Justice, Messages
1963 to 1986, pp. 216-7
6 Bahá’u’lláh quoted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in A Traveller's Narrative, trans. E.G.
Browne, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891, vol. 2, p. 114
7 cf. Kitab-i-Aqdas vs. 123-4
8 From a letter of the Universal House of Justice to Continental Boards of
Counsellors and National Spiritual Assemblies, October 1, 1969, in The
Continental Boards of Counsellors, Wilmette, 1981, pp. 37-38

A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh 1
provisional translation by Julio Savi and Faezeh
Mardani
Last night the shaikh went all about the city, lamp in hand
crying, “I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire.”2
O loving friend, I render thanks unto God that thou art, on the
whole, in good health, and that the stainless mirror of thine heart
telleth of the tokens and ecstasies of thy soul. May, God willing,
thine heart’s purpose be attained and thy soul’s wish be fulfilled,
although it is preferred that we purify this luminous tablet, which is
among the pages of illuminated breasts, from the allusions of both
and that we hasten naked unto the wide plain of the spirit, as it was
said by the divine sage:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose. [FV 60]
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two qiblas,
Either one will please the Beloved, or will consent to one’s
passions.3
Not only the shirt but being itself becometh a veil, and otherness a
curtain. The scholar of Shíráz hath said: “Óáfiẓ! thou thyself art thy
own veil. From the midst, arise.”4

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Likewise, should the Jacob of love have cleansed the essence of his
heart and soul from the foulness of water and clay, undoubtedly he
would have not necessitated the Egyptian shirt, or an announcer
bringing him the glad tiding, or an ambassador speaking to him. On
the contrary, he would have perceived the pure and sanctified breezes
from the north of the Spirit and he would have dwelt in perfect union
with the Beloved.
He would have tasted the joy of the Divine Presence and the
ecstasy of the flavor of subsistence from the fount of purity, and he
would have obtained the eternal life and everlasting perpetuity, and
he would have entered into the immortal Paradise after the spiritual
resurrection. He would have seen a thousand Josephs circling in
adoration without any voice of complaint and would have received
the sweetness of the Egypt of fidelity from the City of the court of
the Incomparable.
Yea, as long as the impurities of the world of multiplicity, whose
only outcome is death, will not be destroyed and annihilated, the
eternal countenance of His Face will not come out unconcealed from
the veils, and the meaning of “Everything will perish except His own
Face”5 will not become manifest from the lucid brow. What else can I
write? One ought to perceive the perfume of the Beloved from
Uways’ camel hair. As the Mathnaví’s author says:
The perfume of the Beloved exaleth from the camel hair.
This camel is of the herd of that pearl who is Lord Uways.
However, the musky fragrance of the Beloved and the breezes of the
Merciful have ceased to waft from the Yemen of the Friend.
Yea, the casket of the white pearl is concealed within the sea shell,
inasmuch as the untouched pearl, which bestows perfect power upon
the inner powers of the heart and adds the light of vision to
intelligence, is more acceptable and agreeable. May its concealment
be conducive to revelation, and its occultation be followed by an
unveiling, or a child clarify this symbolic language, or a power break
this seal.
When seeds are hidden in the earth, their inward secret
becomes the verdure of the garden.6

A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
Imagine what will the power of the Friend’s arm do?
O dear one, thy Companion sayeth that one ought to be purified
from the defilement of imitation, so that the Phoenix of the West
may emerge from the Orient of the Beloved and wing its flight into
the sanctified atmosphere of the Spirit, that is the city of the soul.
I swear by God! Even if the armies of death would ride at full
gallop, they will not catch up with the dust lifted by this Horseman,
and ‘Isrá’íl, the angel of death, will stand as a servant at His door,
ready to serve Him, and will implore favors from whoever is bound
towards His sanctuary, that haply he may be accepted in the court of
glory, and may circle in adoration in those lofty precincts, which are
loftier than a shining star, and he may perceive.
Praise be to God! The breeze of love hath wafted and hath
perfumed the assembly of intimacy. The Spirit hath intoned a new
melody. The lovers of the desert of the intellect have swooned away
because of the call from the Unseen. Such were the joy and the
ecstasy and the delight and the happiness, that the breath of the Holy
Spirit hath wafted from the moldering bones and Gabriel hath winged
its flight on the wings of success. The Isráfíl of life wondereth with
which melody he could wake up these companions and beseecheth
that haply he may share their swoon.
I will cease (from speech): the Sweetheart has begun to speak,
be (all) ear — and God best knoweth the right course.7
In this day life hath come out of my body, It sayeth to me:
verily, unto Him shall we return.8



NOTES
1 Quoted in Ráfatí, Má’akhidh 3281-2. See also Majmu‘ih 36:374-6.
2 Rúmí, Mystical Poems 1:46, no. 51, v.14.
3 Saná’í, Díván (Furúzánfar) 253.
4 Óáfiẓ, Díván 534, 308:9.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


5 Koran 28:88, Yusuf Ali.
6 Rúmí, Mathnaví 1:177.
7 Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3844.
8 Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3906, Koran 2:156.

Ancient Poems as Means of Revelation,
in an Early Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Abstract
This paper offers a provisional translation of a Persian Tablet
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in the Iraqi period [above]. The Tablet is rich
in quotations from ancient Iranian poets. Our paper examines the
importance of poetry in the history of the Faith and in its Writings.
It analyzes the quoted poems and the many poetical metaphors used
in the Tablet. It ends with a short commentary on the contents of the
Tablet: absolute detachment is a fundamental prerequisite for
attaining “unto the divine Presence.”
The authors learned about this Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh through a
publication by Vahid Rafati, Má’akhidh 3:281-2. This book is part of
a set of four Persian volumes, commendably published by Rafati, in
which he lists one by one all verses quoted by Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Their Writings and examines them in their contexts.
This Tablet, wholly written in Persian, is also published in Majmú‘iy-
i-Áthár-Qalam-i-A‘lá 36:374-6. According to Rafati it was revealed in
Baghdad. The Iranian Bahá’í scholar Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il
Mázandarání (ca. 1880–1957) states that it was revealed in Kurdistan
(Asráru’l-Áthár 5:15). Its mystical subject is certainly typical of the
Writings composed by Bahá’u’lláh in that period.
We have been especially impressed by this Tablet, not only
because of its contents, that emphasizes absolute detachment as an

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
indispensable prerequisite for the “attainment unto the Divine
Presence” [KI 141, π149], but also because in the short space of two
pages offers six quotations of verses by three different poets. And
this has appeared to us as a sign of the importance that Bahá’u’lláh
ascribed to poetry.
Poetry in the history of the Faith and in the
Writings
Nabíl narrates that the Báb told him about a verse by Óáfiẓ which
says: “O zephyr, shouldst thou pass by the banks of the Araxes,
implant a kiss on the earth of that valley and make fragrant thy
breath. Hail, a thousand times hail, to thee, O abode of Salma! How
dear is the voice of thy camel-drivers, how sweet the jingling of thy
bells!” [see Díván 537, no. 310, vv.1-2]:
It is the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit that causes
words such as these to stream from the tongue of poets, the
significance of which they themselves are oftentimes unable
to apprehend. The following verse is also divinely inspired:
‘Shíráz will be thrown into a tumult; a Youth of sugar-tongue
will appear. I fear lest the breath of His mouth should agitate
and upset Baghdád.’1 The mystery enshrined within this verse
is now concealed; it will be revealed in the year after Him.”
The Báb subsequently quoted this well-known tradition:
“Treasures lie hidden beneath the throne of God; the key to
those treasures is the tongue of poets. [DB 258-9]
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá were both refined poets. One of “the
first fruits of ... [Bahá’u’lláh’s] Divine Pen” that arrived into our
hands is a Persian poem entitled Rash˙-i-‘Amá, that was “revealed in
Ṭihrán” [GPB 121]. And Rash˙-i-‘Amá is just one among many Persian
and Arabic poems revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’u’lláh praised Mírzá
Maqßúd, one of the believers who lived in Damascus and Jerusalem,
because of a number of poems he sent to him, and described those
poems as being “like unto a mirror in which the evidences of the
devotion and love ... [he cherished] for God and His chosen ones ...
[were] reflected” [TB 175, Law˙-i-Maqßúd]. He wrote about poetry in
general:

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Blessed the poet who hath been filled with the spirit of the
Day of God and from whose words hath wafted the sweet-
smelling savour of the love of his Lord, the All-Merciful,
over all created things. Such a one is, in truth, among the
blissful. Woe betide the poet who hath drawn spears of
sarcasm toward people and turned away from this Wondrous
Remembrance. Keep in mind the grace of God in causing
your tongues to unlock treasures and to reveal wisdom and
mysteries. Let God be your fear and be not of the heedless.
This is the day to celebrate His praise, the day in which the
Creator of the heavens hath appeared with the kingdom of
your Lord, the Almighty, the All-Praised. [provisional translation
by Omid Ghaemmaghami]2
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself wrote various poems both in Persian and
Turkish. He pointed out the special value of words in poetry when
He said: “Poetry is much more effective and complete than prose. It
stirs more deeply, for it is of a finer composition” [CC 2:78]. And
reportedly said: “All Art is a gift of the Holy Spirit. When this light
shines through the mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful
harmonies. Again, shining through the mind of a poet, it is seen in
fine poetry and poetic prose. When the Light of the Sun of Truth
inspires the mind of a painter, he produces marvelous pictures. These
gifts are fulfilling their highest purpose, when showing forth the
praise of God” [CH 167]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expressed His admiration for
those among His fellows-prisoners who, like Nabíl-i-Zarandí, Darvísh
Ṣidq-‘Alí, Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím, Ustad ‘Alí-Akbar and Jináb-i-
Muníb [MF 32-6, 36-8, 81-2, 102-3, 145-7] had a fine poetical vein. He
received poems from a number of Western Bahá’ís, which He often
acknowledged with words of approval. To James Simpson, He wrote
that his poems showed that he was “ablaze with the burning fire of
the love of God,” that he had “secured a share and portion from the
bounty of the Spirit and ... purposed to render a distinguished service
to the divine Kingdom and to be the cause of the promulgation of
the oneness of mankind” [Tablets Received 166]. To Marie Watson He
wrote that her poems were “in the utmost sweetness and delicacy”
[Tablets to Bahais 307]. To Louise R. Waite, who was both a poetess and
a musician, and to whom He conferred the title of Shahnáz — which
is the name of a musical mode — He wrote that her poems were “in
the utmost eloquence and sweetness” [Recent Tablets 318], “wonderful

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
... fluent ... and ... most thrilling” [Tablets revealed 198], “sweet
melodies in the Rose garden of the love of God” [Tablets to Bahais 276],
“the cause of the gladness of their hearers” [Recent Tablets 318], and
that their “vibration” would “forever, give pleasure to the ears of the
children of the Kingdom” [Tablets to Bahais 276]. He advised her, to
strive “in the composition of such pieces, so that at all times the river
of pure poesy may flow from ... [her] tongue” [Tablets revealed 198].
To other poets, whose names have not been identified, He wrote: “I
chanted thy poem. Its significance was beautiful, its composition
eloquent and its words excellent. It was like the melody of the birds
of holiness in the paradise of El-Abha ... Blessed art thou for uttering
forth such an excellent poem and brilliant pearl” [Tablets 1: 57]. And
also: “Verily, I read thy poem, which contained new significances and
beautiful words. My heart was dilated by its eloquent sense” [Tablets
1:58]. And moreover: “Thy little book of poems, which were very
sweet, was read. It was a source of joy, for it was a spiritual anthem
and a melody of the love of God” [Tablets 1:59]. And finally: “Thy
poetry was received. The context was elegant. The words were
eloquent and the theme, the Manifest Light. Consequently, it was
highly appreciated” [Tablets 3:546]. He openly encouraged some of
those poets. He wrote to one of them: “Verily, these verses shall be
sung in the divine meetings and in the assemblages of the spiritual in
the course of ages and centuries to come, for thou hast uttered the
praise of thy Lord and expressed significant meanings in eulogy of
thy Lord, the Merciful, the Clement” [Tablets 1:58]. And to another
one: “Endeavour your utmost to compose beautiful poems to be
chanted with heavenly music; thus may their beauty affect the minds
and impress the hearts of those who listen” [Tablets 1:59]. And finally:
“finish the poem which thou art composing and send it here, that
through reading it the breast of the believers may be refreshed and
dilated with joy” [Tablets 3:669].
The earliest believers wrote poems and Shoghi Effendi describes
“[t]he joyous feasts which these companions, despite their extremely
modest earnings, continually offered in honor of their Beloved; the
gatherings, lasting far into the night, in which they loudly celebrated,
with prayers, poetry and song, the praises of the Báb, of Quddús and
of Bahá’u’lláh” [GPB 135] in the late Baghdád period. No wonder then
that both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá drew from the poetic Arabic
and Persian legacy in the Writings which They revealed. Western

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
readers are especially familiar with the Seven Valleys and the Four
Valleys, as works comprising many poetical quotations.
Poems quoted in this Tablet
In this Tablet Bahá’u’lláh quotes Khájih Shamsu’d-Dín Mu˙ammad
Óáfiẓ-i-Shírází (ca. 1318–1390), Mawláná Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí (1207–
1273) and Majdúd Saná’í (ca. 1045–ca. 1141). As to Óáfiẓ He quotes
an hemistich from a ghazal, “a shorter, sonnet-like, lyrical form,
observing mono-rhyme, the conventional meters and other prosodic
rules” [Lewis, “Short Poem” 83]. As to Rúmí, He quotes a distich from a
known ghazal at the beginning of the Tablet; and a distich of another
ghazal, which has not yet been identified, in the context of the
Tablet; He also quotes a distich from the Mathnaví in the context of,
and two different distiches from the same Mathnaví, at the end of the
Tablet. As to Saná’í, He quotes two distiches from a ghazal in the
context of His Tablet.
The hemistich by Óáfiẓ says: “Óáfiẓ! thou thyself art thy own veil.
From the midst, arise.” The whole ghazal has been translated into
English by Henri Wilberforce-Clark (1840–1905), an officer in the
British India corps, first translator of the Bústán of Sa‘dí (1257) and
of the Sikandar Námih by Nízamí (ca. 1202) [Óáfiẓ, Díván 534, no. 308]:
Ravished is my heart by one like a singing girl, clamour-
exciter,
False of promise, slayer by nature, and colour (of deceit)-
mixer.
A ransom for the rent garment of those of moon-face, be
A thousand garments of piety and the khirka of austerity!
In thanks for that that, in beauty, thou tookest from the
(glorious) angel the ball of superiority,
The cup, demand; and on Adam’s dust, a little water
sprinkle.
Poor and shattered, to Thy court, I have come. A little pity,
For, save attachment to Thee, attachment, mine is none.
The slave, I am of that word that enkindleth the fire (of
love):

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Not (the slave of that word, that), in speech, dasheth cold
water on the fierce fire (of love).
Come; for last night, to me, the invisible messenger spake,
Saying: “In contentment’s stage, be; from destiny, flee
not.”
Of thy own arm, be not proud; for in record it is:
“In (by, under) the order of the king-maker a thousand
arrayings.”
In my coffin, put up the cup; so that, on the morning of
rising,
I may, with wine, take from my heart the terror of the day
up-rising and springing.
Between the lover and the Beloved, veil is none:
Hafiz! thou thyself art thy own veil. From the midst, arise;
and attain unto the Beloved.
It is a beautiful love poem, in which the “one like a singing girl” is
the Beloved, with capital B. The poet sings His beauty, His cruelty,
and his own dependence on Him. He concludes with a distich of high
mysticism, whose second hemistich is quoted by Bahá’u’lláh, in which
he mentions that he should be annihilated, so that he may be united
with the Beloved. It is the usual concept of faná, which Bahá’u’lláh
later on described in such Writings as the Seven Valleys, in the Valley
of True Poverty and Utter Nothingness [SV 36-9], and Gems of Divine
Mysteries, in the City of Absolute Nothingness [GDM 70-1, π101-4].
As to Rúmí, Bahá’u’lláh gives preference to him over other poets
in this Tablet, as in other Writings, as for example the Seven Valleys.
And thus He quotes Him five times, comprising at the beginning and
at the end of the Tablet. His love towards Rúmí is demonstrated by
an episode of His life, recorded by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Master narrates
in His description of the life of Ustád Ismá’íl, one of the companions
who followed Bahá’u’lláh in the Holy Land, that:
At one time, Bahá’u’lláh had written down an ode of Rúmí’s
for him, and had told him to turn his face toward the Báb and
sing the words, set to a melody. And so as he wandered
through the long dark nights, Ustád would sing these lines:

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed,
Love’s fool am I, in all the earth.
They call me first among the crazed,
Though I once came first for wit and worth.
O Love, who sellest me this wine,
O Love, for whom I burn and bleed,
Love, for whom I cry and pine –
Thou the Piper, I the reed.
If Thou wishest me to live,
Through me blow Thy holy breath.
The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give
To me, who’ve lain an age in death.
Thou, both End and Origin.
Thou without and Thou within –
From every eye Thou hidest well,
And yet in every eye dost dwell. [MF 30-1]3
The verse by Rúmí quoted at the opening of the Tablet reads as
follows:
Last night the shaikh went all about the city, lamp in hand
crying, ‘I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire.’
This ghazal has been entirely translated into English by both Reynold
A. Nicholson (1868–1945), an expert in Sufism and especially in the
work of Rúmí [Selected Poems 65-9, no. 16], and Arthur John Arberry
(1905–1969), the well-known British orientalist [Mystical Poems 1:46, no.
51, v. 14]. It comprises 24 verses, and thus like many of Rúmí’s ghazal
is quite longer than usual ghazals, which according to the Italian
Iranist Alessandro Bausani (1921–1988) comprise “generally not less
than five and no more than twelve” [“Ghazal. ii. In Persian literature”).
The Bahá’í world knows its verse 20, “In one hand the wine-cup, in
one hand the tresses of the Friend. Such a dance in the midst of the
market-place is my desire!”, because Shoghi Effendi adds this note to
the Dawn Breakers [DB 620n1]:

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The extraordinary heroism with which Sulaymán Khán bore
these frightful tortures is notorious and I have repeatedly
heard it related how he ceased not during the long agony
which he endured to testify his joy that he should be
accounted worthy to suffer martyrdom for his Master's
cause. He even sang and recited verses of poetry, amongst
them the following: “I have returned! I have returned! I have
come by the way of Shíráz! I have come with winsome airs
and graces! Such is the lover’s madness!” “Why do you not
dance,” asked the executioners mockingly, “since you find
death so pleasant?” “Dance!” cried Sulaymán Khán. “In one
hand the wine-cup, in one hand the tresses of the Friend. Such
a dance in the midst of the market-place is my desire!”
[Browne, “A Traveller’s Narrative,” Note T, pp. 333-4]
Its central theme is the quest after the Perfect Man. But it also can be
interpreted as the quest after a human being that has made great
progress on the path of spiritual quest, among many other spiritual
immature human beings. This is the whole poem in Arberry’s
translation:
Show your face, for the orchard and rosegarden are my
desire; open your lips, for abundant sugar is my
desire.
Sun of beauty, come forth one moment out of the cloud,
for that glittering, glowing countenance is my
desire.
Out of your air I heard the sound of the falcon-drum; I
returned, for the sultan's forearm is my desire.
You said capriciously, “Trouble me no more; be gone!” That
saying of yours, “Trouble me no more,” is my desire,
And your repulse, “Be gone, the king is not at home,” and
those mighty airs and brusqueness of the
doorkeeper, are my desire.
In the hand of every one who exists there are filings of
beauty; that quarry of elegance and that mine are my
desire.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
This bread and water of heaven’s wheel are like a
treacherous torrent; I am a fish, a leviathan, Oman is
my desire.
Like Jacob I am crying alas, alas; the fair visage of Joseph
of Canaan is my desire.
By Allah, without you the city is a prison for me; I wander
abroad, mountain and desert are my desire.
My heart is weary of these weak-spirited fellow-travellers;
the Lion of God and Rustam-i Dastán are my desire.
My soul is sick of Pharaoh and his tyranny; that light of the
countenance of Moses son of ‘Imrán is my desire.
I am aweary of these tearful people so full of complaining;
that ranting and roaring of the drunkards is my
desire.
I am more eloquent than the nightingale, but because of
vulgar envy a seal is on my tongue, and lamentation
is my desire.
Last night the shaikh went all about the city, lamp in hand,
crying, “I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire.”
They said, “He is not to be found, we too have searched.”
He answered, “He who is not to be found is my
desire.”
Though I am penniless, I will not accept a small carnelian,
for that rare, precious carnelian is my desire.
Hidden from every eye, and all things seen are from Him —
that hidden One manifest in works is my desire.
My state has gone beyond every desire and yearning; from
mine and place to the elements is my desire.
My ear heard the tale of faith and became drunk; where is
the portion of sight? The form of faith is my desire.
In one hand the winecup, in the other the Beloved’s curl —
to dance so in the midst of the arena is my desire.
That rebeck says, “I am dead of expectation; the hand and
bosom and plectrum of ‘Uthmán are my desire.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
I am at once Love’s rebeck, and Love is my rebeck-player;
those favours of the plucking of the All-merciful are
my desire.
Cunning minstrel, number the rest of this ode after this
fashion, for it is after this fashion I desire.
Show your face from the east, Sun of the Pride of Tabriz; I
am the hoopoe, the presence of Solomon is my
desire.
The second quoted ghazal by Rúmí is as follows:
The perfume of the Beloved exaleth from the camel hair.
This camel is of the herd of that pearl who is Lord Uways.
Rafati writes that he did not find this distich in the edition of the
Díván by Rúmí edited by Ṣafí ‘Alí Sháh in 1361 or 1982–83 AD
[Má’akhidh 2:275]. We too could not find it in the edition of Rúmí’s
Díván published by the website RíRá, the Free Persian Digital
Library, providing access to Persian literature in public domain. This
distich will be commented upon in the part of this paper devoted to
the poetical language of the Tablet.
The first distich from Rúmí’s Mathnaví quoted by Bahá’u’lláh in
our Tablet is as follows:
When seeds are hidden in the earth, their inward secret
becomes the verdure of the garden. [Mathnaví 1:177]
This distich is part of a story that narrates of a great king who saw a
slave girl, fell in love with her, and bought her, but the girl became
sick and none of the king’s physicians could heal her. Finally, one day
the king found a doctor, who was well known for his special skill. He
brought him to his slave and the physician asked to be left alone with
her. In his interview with the slave he discovered that the cause of her
sickness was that she was in love with a goldsmith from Samarkand.
The doctor promised the girl that he would help her, but asked her
not to reveal her secret to anyone else. And Rúmí comments upon
this advice as follows:
The Prophet said that any one who hides his inmost thought
will soon attain to the object of his desire.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
When seeds are hidden in the earth, their inward secret
becomes the verdure of the garden.
If gold and silver were not hidden, how would they get
nourishment (grow and ripen) in the mine? [ibid.
1:176-8]
Two verses from this long story are quoted in the Four Valleys:
Let us write, some other way,
Love’s secrets — better so. [Mathnaví 1:136, SV 64]
Leave blood and noise and all of these,
And say no more of Shams-i-Tabriz. [Mathnaví 1:142, SV 65]
The two distiches quoted at the end of the Tablet are as follows:
I will cease (from speech): the Sweetheart has begun to
speak, be (all) ear — and God best knoweth the right
course. [Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3844]
In this day life hath come out of my body, It sayeth to me:
verily, unto Him shall we return. [see Rúmí, Mathnaví
3:3906, Koran 2:156]
The first distich repeats a typical topos of Persian lyrical poetry: at
the end of a discourse the poet states that he has concluded his
argument. In this case, he explains that whenever the Beloved speaks,
any other voice becomes superfluous. The second one ascribes silence
to the attainment unto annihilation.
Finally, Bahá’u’lláh quotes two distiches by Saná’í. The first one
also is quoted in the Four Valleys:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose. [SV 60]
[which could also be translated: With that rose bud
no one sleeps with a shirt.]
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two qiblas,
Either one will please the Beloved, or will consent to one’s
passions.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
These verses are part of a ghazal which says:
Don the garb of faith, so that you may last forever; if
you won’t die in this garb, you will become
rotten with your shroud.
Faith swallows this and the Other world in a breath, as
soon as the leviathan of its pain opens its mouth.
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two
qiblas. Either one will please the Beloved or will
consent to one’s passions.
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of
hearts, Never the shrouded soul unite with
beauty’s rose. [SV 60]
Do not lift the veil of continence and shame from the
face of belief, that you may not be bewitched by
the evil eye of the unworthy.
Walk by the Qur’án, ’cause whoever takes refuge in the
Qur’án escapes the torments of the Other world
and the temptations of this one.

[Saná’í, Díván [Furúzánfar] 253, translated from the
Persian by the authors, except the couplet marked SV 60,
translated by Gail; see Radmihr, Samavát 558].
These two distiches also suggest detachment. It is symbolized in the
first one by the shirt, which the lower should take off, if he wants to
be really close to the Beloved; in the second one by the two qiblihs,
one of which — that of passion — should be abandoned, while
preserving only that of the Beloved.
Images used in the Tablet
This Tablet is written in the imaginative language typical of
Persian mystics, as most of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings revealed in the
Iraqi period. Some of the images may prove less comprehensible for
Westerners and thus some of them will be shortly explained.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The Tablet of the Heart
At the beginning of this Tablet Bahá’u’lláh writes: “May, God
willing, thine heart’s purpose be attained and thy soul’s wish be
fulfilled, although it is preferred that we purify this luminous tablet
(law˙-i-núr), which is among the pages of illuminated breasts
(ßafa˙át-i-af’adiy-i-munírih), from the allusions of both....” This
image is often used by the Sufis to describe the human heart, as the
essence of the soul. These are three examples, one from Rúmí and
two from Óáfiẓ, respectively:
Recite entirely this ode from the tablet of the heart; regard
not the tongue, for lips and tongue do not remain.
[Rúmí, Mystical Poems 1:83, no. 96, v.8]
From the tablet of my heart and soul, Thy image, ever goeth
not:
From my recollection, that proudly moving cypress ever
goeth not. [Óáfiẓ, Díván 462, no. 258, v.1]
On my heart’s tablet is naught save the (straight) alif of the
Friend’s stature:
What may I do? Me, recollection of other letter the teacher
(the murshid) gave not. [Óáfiẓ, Díván 703, no. 416, v.8]
Bahá’u’lláh Himself sometimes uses this image in other Writings.
For example He writes: “It behoveth every man to blot out the trace
of every idle word from the tablet of his heart, and to gaze, with an
open and unbiased mind, on the signs of His Revelation, the proofs
of His Mission, and the tokens of His glory” [GWB 11, sec.7, Súriy-i-
Qamíß]. He also writes: “... O my brother, when a true seeker
determineth to take the step of search in the path leading to the
knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must ... wash away from the
tablet of his heart every trace of pride and vainglory” [KI 192-3, π213].
This image reminds us of the Aristotelian “tabula rasa” the unscribed
tablet [see Aristotle, De Anima [On the soul], 3:4, 430-31). The soul seems
described as a tablet upon which the beauteous features of the Face
of the Lord can be drawn through the combined efforts of pure love
and a purified intellect.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Dil-bar, the heart-ravisher
The image of the heart-ravisheror stealer of hearts (dil-bar),
“Heart-ravishing; a lovely woman, a sweetheart” [Steingass 531], is very
common in Persian mystical poetry. Javad Nurbakhsh (1926-2008), a
Sufi master who published a 16 volume encyclopedia entitled Sufi
Symbolism, explains that this locution, which he translates “heart-
ravisher,” “is said to represent the attribute of contraction
engendered in the heart through ‘anguish’ (anduh) and tribulation
(me˙nat)” [2:40]. Óáfiẓ uses this image in the following distich:
If of the Sul†án, I formed expectation, a fault it was:
If of the Heart-Ravisher (dil-bar), I sought fidelity,
tyranny he made. [Díván 242, no. 116, v.6; Díván
136, “Ghazalyát,” no. 130, v.5]
This image also is included in the verse of Saná’í that Bahá’u’lláh
quotes in this Tablet:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts
(dil-bar),
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose.
[SV 60]
The stealer of hearts describes the cruelty of the Beloved, Who
denies Himself to the absolute love of the lover, abandoning him to
his pains in the desert of loneliness and remoteness. It is an allusion
to God’s unknowability. In the Bahá’í Writings this topos is less
important, because Bahá’u’lláh has come to bring a glad tiding:
Behold how the manifold grace of God, which is being
showered from the clouds of Divine glory, hath, in this day,
encompassed the world. For whereas in days past every
lover besought and searched after his Beloved, it is the
Beloved Himself Who now is calling His lovers and is
inviting them to attain His presence. Take heed lest ye
forfeit so precious a favor; beware lest ye belittle so
remarkable a token of His grace. [GWB 319, sec. CLI, Law˙-i-
‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq]
The day of sadness for lovers are ended, a new age of joy has begun.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The Beauty’s rose
This image also belongs to Saná’í’s verses quoted by Bahá’u’lláh.
In the Sufi world the rose (gul) “symbolizes the result of the
knowledge that appears in the heart of the gnostic” (Nurbakhsh 4:39].
It may also be interpreted as “the supreme manifestation of Divine
beauty or the symbol of the beloved cheek” [Schimmel, Deciphering 26].
Annemarie Schimmel (1922–2003) explains: “in the Islamic tradition,
as elsewhere, the rose has pride of place. The Prophet kissed the rose
and placed it on his eyes, for ‘the red rose is part of God’s glory,
kibriya’. On the other hand, legend claims that the rose grew out of
the drops of perspiration which fell from the Prophet’s body during
his nightly journey — therefore it carries his sweet fragrance”
[Deciphering 20].
In the Bahá’í collective imagination the rose has come to be
especially associated with the story of Bahá’u’lláh’s Declaration in the
Garden of Ri∂ván in Baghdad, as described by Nabíl. A famous
passage by Bahá’u’lláh turns around the images of the rose-garden
and the flower par excellence, the rose: “In the Rose Garden of
changeless splendor a Flower hath begun to bloom, compared to
which every other flower is but a thorn, and before the brightness of
Whose glory the very essence of beauty must pale and wither” [GWB
320-1, sec. 151, π3, Law˙-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq].
Two qiblas
The above mentioned quotation by Saná’í goes on saying: “One
cannot advance in the path of oneness with two qiblas.” The Qiblih is
“The ‘Point of Adoration,’ that is, the point to which the worshipper
should turn when offering obligatory prayer, is called the Qiblih”
[“Preface and Notes” 168n7] and Bahá’u’lláh has decreed: “The Qiblih is
indeed He Whom God will make manifest; whenever He moveth, it
moveth, until He shall come to rest” [KA 68, π137]. The poetical image
is very clear: the qiblih “symbolizes the focus of the attention of the
heart” [Nurbakhsh 3:101] and the heart cannot at the same time turn
towards two goals. Either he loves the Beloved or he walks away from
Him. The Gospel also states: “No servant can serve two masters: for
either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon”
[Luke 16:13, KJB].
The veils
Bahá’u’lláh quotes an hemistich by Óáfiẓ which says: “Óáfiẓ! thou
thyself art thy own veil. From the midst, arise.” The Sufis think that
while living on this earthly world each person is separated from the
Reality hidden behind everything by many obstacles, which they call
“veils:” the veil of the flesh, the veil of passion, the veil of ignorance,
the veil of heedlessness, the veil of human learning, the veil of
attachment to the glories of the world, the veil of self, etcetera. This
image often recurs in the Bahá’í Writings. Bahá’u’lláh mentions the
“veils of glory” [KI 164, π175], the “veils of learning” [KI 214, π237],
the “veil of self” [GWB 316, sec. 147, Law˙-i-Salmán] “the veils of
heedlessness” [GWB 322, sec. 152, Law˙-i-A˙mad bi Fársí], the veils of
desire [SLH 31, sec. 1, π60. Súriy-i-Haykal], “veils of light” [TB 143, Law˙-i-
Óikmat), etcetera. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá classifies the veils as follows:
Know thou, verily, there are many veils in which the Truth is
enveloped: gloomy veils; then delicate and transparent veils;
then the envelopment of Light, the sight of which dazzles the
eyes, as doth the sun which is enveloped only in its own light
and, as we look at it, the sight is blinded and eyes are dazzled.
[TAB1 71-2]
Joseph and Jacob
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay, undoubtedly he would have not necessitated the Egyptian
shirt, or an announcer bringing him the glad tiding, or an ambassador
speaking to him.” Joseph, who is presented in the Qur’án not only as
a judicious, wise and pious man but also as a youth of such
extraordinary beauty as to appear as “a noble angel” [12:31], is
considered to be the symbol of absolute Beauty. Jacob is viewed as
the human soul in search of that Beauty and turned blind because of
the many tears it has shed in its remoteness from its Beloved.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The Egyptian shirt
This allusion to the Egyptian shirt may also be found in the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas: “Say: From My laws the sweet-smelling savour of My
garment can be smelled, and by their aid the standards of Victory will
be planted upon the highest peaks” [KA 20, π4]. This verse of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas is commented as follows:
This is an allusion to the story of Joseph in the Qur’án and
the Old Testament, in which Joseph’s garment, brought by his
brothers to Jacob, their father, enabled Jacob to identify his
beloved long-lost son. The metaphor of the fragrant
“garment” is frequently used in the Bahá’í Writings to refer
to the recognition of the Manifestation of God and His
Revelation. [“Preface and Notes” 165 n1]
The Egypt of fidelity
Bahá’u’lláh mentions “the Egypt of fidelity (Mißr-i-vafá).” This
image also belongs to the overall image of the story of Joseph.
Interestingly, when Sufi poets refer to the story of Moses, Egypt, the
reign of Pharaoh, the great oppressor of Moses and the Jews, mostly
denotes materialism, the prison of the self and passions. This
demonstrate the great fluidity of mystic symbolism, which defies the
strict rules of the human mind.
The north of the Spirit (shimál-i-rú˙)
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “On the contrary, he would have perceived the
pure and sanctified breezes from the north (shimál) of the Spirit and
he would have dwelt in perfect union with the Beloved.” The word
shimál means both north and left. But when it means “left” it has a
negative connotation, as in Koran 56:9, where it denotes the damned
souls, as opposed to the right denoting the blessed ones. In this case
the locution shimál-i-rú˙ is mentioned, that could be rendered as “the
north of the Spirit.” The French Iranist Henry Corbin (1903-1978)
writes about shimál as north what follows:
Now one of the leitmotiv of Iranian Sufi literature is the
“Quest for the Orient,” but this is a Quest for an Orient

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
which, as we are forewarned (if we do not already realize), is
not — and cannot be — situated on our geographical maps.
This Orient is not comprised in any of the seven climes
(keshvar); it is in fact the eighth clime. And the direction in
which we must seek this “eighth clime” is not on the
horizontal but on the vertical. This suprasensory, mystical
Orient, the place of the Origin and of the Return, object of
the eternal Quest, is at the heavenly pole; it is the Pole, at the
extreme north, so far off that it is the threshold of the
dimension “beyond.” That is why it is only revealed to a
definite mode of presence in the world, and can be revealed
only through this mode of presence. There are other modes to
which it will never be revealed. It is precisely this mode of
presence that characterizes the mode of being of the Sufi, but
also, through his person, the mode of being of the entire
spiritual family to which Sufism — and especially Iranian
Sufism — belongs. The Orient sought by the mystic, the
Orient that cannot be located on our maps, is in the direction
of the north, beyond the north. Only an ascensional progress
can lead toward this cosmic north chosen as a point of
orientation. [Man of Light 2]
Corbin also points out that the north is “on the one hand... the
situs of the angel Sraoshah (who thus would correspond to the angel
Seraphiel); on the other hand this is the qualification given in Sufism
to the great shaykh of a period (even the shaykh of a Sufi community,
a taríqat, insofar as the latter is taken as the homologue of a
microcosm) and for this reason is considered in Shí’ite Sufism as
representing the hidden Imám” (ibid. 56). Óáfiẓ uses this metaphor in
the two following verses:
O (cool) breeze of the north! the breeze of good news, thou
art,
That, us, at union’s time, reacheth. [Díván 621, no. 360, v.1]
The breeze of love’s perfume, I perceived; and, expectant
of the flashing of the lightning of union, became:
O (cool) breeze of the north! come: for, for the perfume of
thy body, I die! [Díván 626, no.364, v.1]

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The joy of the Divine Presence (Shawq-i-laqá)
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “[Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay...] he would have tasted the joy of the Divine Presence and
the flavor of eternity.” Bahá’u’lláh Himself explains the spiritual
meaning of the concept of the Divine Presence in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
“by ‘attainment unto the divine Presence’ is meant attainment unto
the presence of His Beauty in the person of His Manifestation” [KI
170, π182].
The eternal life
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “[Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay...] he would have obtained the eternal life...” This concept
also is explained in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán: “whosoever, and in whatever
Dispensation, hath recognized and attained unto the presence of
these glorious, these resplendent and most excellent Luminaries, hath
verily attained unto the ‘Presence of God’ Himself, and entered the
city of eternal and immortal life” [KI 142, π151].
Resurrection
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “[Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay...] he would have entered into the immortal Paradise after
the spiritual resurrection.” Resurrection can be seen in two different
perspectives, personal and eschatological. As to the personal
perspective, the key to read this metaphor is in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
Such things have come to pass in the days of every
Manifestation of God. Even as Jesus said: “Ye must be born
again” [1 John 3:7]. Again He saith: “Except a man be born of
water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of
God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which
is born of the Spirit is spirit” [2 John 3:5-6]. The purport of
these words is that whosoever in every dispensation is born
of the Spirit and is quickened by the breath of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Manifestation of Holiness, he verily is of those that have
attained unto “life” and “resurrection” and have entered into
the “paradise” of the love of God. And whosoever is not of
them, is condemned to “death” and “deprivation,” to the
“fire” of unbelief, and to the “wrath” of God. In all the
scriptures, the books and chronicles, the sentence of death,
of fire, of blindness, of want of understanding and hearing,
hath been pronounced against those whose lips have tasted
not the ethereal cup of true knowledge, and whose hearts
have been deprived of the grace of the holy Spirit in their
day. Even as it hath been previously recorded: “Hearts have
they with which they understand not.” [Koran 7:178]. [KI 118-9,
π125]
In this case it seems that resurrection is intended in its personal
perspective.
“Everything will perish except His own Face (kullu
shay‘in hálika illa vajhahu)” [28:88, Yusuf Ali]
Yusuf Ali comments upon this verse as follows: “This sums up the
lesson of the whole Surah. The only Eternal Reality is Allah. His
‘Face’ or Self, Personality or Being is what we should seek, knowing
that it is the only enduring thing of which we can have any
conception. The whole phenomenal world is subject to flux and
change and will pass away, but He will endure forever” [The Holy
Quran 1027 n3421]. This Koranic verse appears in a verse by Rúmí in
the following context:
I died to the inorganic state and became endowed with
growth, and (then) I died to (vegetable) growth and
attained to the animal.
I died from animality and became Adam (man): why, then,
should I fear? When have I become less by dying?
At the next remove I shall die to man, that I may soar and
lift up my head amongst the angels;
And I must escape even from (the state of) the angel:
everything is perishing except His Face.
Once more I shall be sacrificed and die to the angel: I shall
become that which enters not into the imagination.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Then I shall become non-existence: non-existence saith to
me, (in tones loud) as an organ, Verily, unto Him
shall we return.
Know death to be (the thing signified by) what the
(Mohammedan) community are agreed upon, namely,
that the Water of Life is hidden in the (Land of)
Darkness.
Grow from this river-bank, like the water-lily, greedy and
craving for death as the sufferer from dropsy.
The water is death to him, and (yet) he is seeking the water
and drinking it — and God best knoweth the right
course. [Mathnaví 3:3901-9]
Human beings are here described in their ascending progress from the
mineral world to the station of the angles, and then to their
annihilation in their return to God.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote a Tablet in which He explained several
meanings of the word “face (vajh)”:
The word “face” (vajh) hath many meanings, among which
there is submissiveness to the Will of God (ri∂á), as God,
exalted be He, says: “Seeking His Face” [Koran 6:52], and also:
“We feed you for the sake of God alone” [Koran 76:9], and
moreover His good-pleasure (ri∂á). And the face also means
the Essence (dhát). God, exalted be He, says: “Everything ...
will perish except His own Face” [Koran 28:88]. And the face
(vajh) also means the unveiling (jilwat). God, exalted be He,
says: “whithersoever ye turn, there is the Presence of God”
[Koran 2:115]. And the face (vajh) hath various interpretations
and allusions, beside what hath been said. However, due to
lack of time, it hath been chosen not to expatiate the subject.
On the ground of all this, submission (taslím) of the face is
one thing of the special virtues of the righteous and of the
greatest gifts of the free. Whosoever is so aided is graciously
favored with absolute faith in the highest level of certitude
and assurance. [Makátíb 1:396, provisional translation by the
authors]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Uways and the camel
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
One ought to perceive the perfume of the Beloved from
Uways’ camel hair. As the Mathnaví’s author says:
The perfume of the Beloved exaleth from the camel
hair.
This camel is of the herd of that pearl who is Lord
Uways.
Uwaysu’l-Qaraní
is
“a
legendary
or
semi-legendary
younger
contemporary of Mu˙ammad said to have been killed at the battle of
Ṣiffín in 37/657, fighting on the side of ‘Alí ... [The legend says that]
Mu˙ammad and Uways corresponded by telepathy” [Bosworth, ”Uways
al-Ḳaraní”]. The morning breeze, according to the Tradition, brought
to Muhammad the scent of the holiness of Uways al-Qaraní who lived
in Yemen.
According to Nurbakhsh, the camel “is said to represent humanity
(ensániyat)” [4:153].
Breezes, scents and the Yemen
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “However, the musky fragrance of the Beloved
and the breezes of the Merciful have ceased to waft from the Yemen
of the Friend.” In the Sufi language breezes and winds have positive
connotations. The breeze, “nasím,” is often described as a messenger
of love, because at dawn it wafts the scent of the rose, the traditional
metaphor of the Beloved, or the musk scent of the Friend. Breezes
and winds are often associated with the idea of scent, a concept
which has many connotations in the Sufi world. Among them, as in
the Western world, a spiritual person may be described as a person in
the odor of sanctity. In this case the Tabled alludes to the above
mentioned legend of Uways. Yemen, the southern region of the
Arabic Peninsula, is here mentioned because it was the place where
Uways lived.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The pearl and the shell
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Yeah, the casket of the white pearl (lú-lú-i-
bay∂á) is concealed within the sea shell (ßadaf), inasmuch as the
untouched pearl, which bestows perfect power upon the inner powers
of the heart and adds the light of vision to intelligence, is more
acceptable and agreeable.” According to Nurbakhsh the symbol of the
pearl refers to the perfect Man. Ebn ‘Arabi refers to it as the “white
pearl” [4:240]. As to the shell, according to Nurbakhsh “it is said to
symbolize the form of the multiplicity of the existential names and
Attribute” [4:152]. As to the untouched pearls, they are reminiscent
of the Koranic image of the Óurís, that are “large-eyed ones with
modest refraining glances, fair like the sheltered egg” [37:48-9,
Rodwell], girls “with large dark eyes” [44:54, Rodwell], beautiful “like
jacynths and pearls” [55:58, Rodwell], “whom no man nor spirit hath
touched before” [55:56, Rodwell], given as brides to the believers in the
Heaven’s gardens of delight. Other meanings of this metaphor are
explained in the following words by Bahá’u’lláh: “How many the
húrís of inner meaning that are as yet concealed within the chambers
of divine wisdom! None hath yet approached them; — húrís, ‘whom
no man nor spirit hath touched before’” [KI 70-1, π78].
The arm of the Beloved
In the language of the Sufis the arm, bázú, “represents the Divine
Will (masheyat)” [Nurbakhsh 1:14]. The image is commonly used in
Persian mystical poems to describe strength and power. For example
Óáfiẓ writes:
O sky! Away from the purpose of king Manßúr,4 thy face
turn not
The keenness of his sword, behold: the power of his
arm, behold. [Díván 761, no. 456, v.8]
Bahá’u’lláh uses this image in this Tablet when He says: “Imagine
what will the power of the Friend’s arm do?”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The Phoenix of the West and the city of the soul
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “O dear one, thy Companion sayeth that one
ought to be purified from the defilement of imitation, so that the
Phoenix of the West may emerge from the Orient of the Beloved and
wing its flight into the sanctified atmosphere of the Spirit, that is the
city of the soul.” According to Nurbakhsh the Phoenix of the West
“is said to represent the Perfect Man, the wayfarer who is in Union,
and one who has gnosis of the Divine Essence” [4:148]. In this case we
also have the symbolism of the two opposed directions of the West
and the East. The West denotes occultation and the East theophany.
As to “the city of the soul (madíniy-i-ján),” this locution is
reminiscent of a sentence in the Seven Valleys, which says: “to this
evanescent One of the mystic ocean, this station is the first gate of
the heart’s citadel, that is, man’s first entrance to the city of the
heart” [SV 41].
The desert of the intellect and the “swoon”
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “The lovers of the desert of the intellect have
swooned away because of the call from the Unseen.” Nurbakhsh gives
us an interesting background to understand the symbol of the desert:
We know that to reach Mecca, one must pass through cities
and cross the desert. Sháh Ne‘matollah,5in the following
passage, has used the images of “city” and “desert” to
symbolize the nafs and its inclinations along the way of the
“Pilgrimage” to Reality:
“Love of women, property, status, food and drink, or
whatever tempts the nafs, stands like cities along the
way of the ‘Pilgrimage’ to Reality. Once these are
passed, the blood-thirsty desert lies ahead and must be
traversed for the sake of austerity, the caravan chief
being the Prophet. If one is remiss in following him, one
falls behind, and is destroyed by the nafs, which is like a
desert thief.” [3:112]

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
As to the “swoon,” the Persian locution “madhúsh shudand”
corresponds with the Arabic word “ßá’íqan.” Therefore this sentence
seems to be a reference to the story of Moses, and specifically to
Moses’s swoon when God showed Himself to Him on Mount Sinai
described in the Koran as follows: “And when God manifested
Himself to the mountain he turned it to dust! and Moses fell in a
swoon (ßá’íqan)” [Koran 7:139]. It is the annihilation of the human
qualities of the seeker in front of the Manifestation of God. Similar
ideas are explained by Bahá’u’lláh in the Four Valleys when He quotes
this verse by Saná’í:
Wouldst thou that the mind should not entrap thee?
Teach it the science of the love of God! [SV 52]
In other words, the mind can be deceitful. Only a mind that has
been educated and thus transformed through its perusal and
internalization of Scripture is a reliable source of knowledge.
The moldering bones (‘aẓm-i-ramím)
Bahá’u’lláh writes. “Such were the joy and the ecstasy and the
delight and the happiness, that the breath of the Holy Spirit hath
wafted from the moldering bones....” This image comes from the
Koran, which says. “Who ... shall give life to bones when they are
rotten?” [36:78, Rodwell]. Bahá’u’lláh draws from this verse an
attribute of God the “Fashioner of mouldering bones” [SLH 53, sec.
1, π118, Súriy-i-Haykal], and also “God, Who fashioneth the
crumbling and rotten bones” [GWB 243, sec. 115, Law˙-i-Dhabíh].
‘Izrá’íl, Gabriel (Rú˙u’l-Amín), and Isráfíl
Interestingly in the last part of the Tablet three angels are directly
or indirectly mentioned: ‘Izrá’íl, the angel of death, Gabriel, the angel
of revelation, and Isráfíl, the angel of life.
As to ‘Izrá’íl, of the one who is “purified from the defilement of
imitation” Bahá’u’lláh says: “‘Izrá’íl, the angel of death, will stand as
a servant at His door, ready to serve Him.” The Koran says: “Say:
The angel of death, who is charged with you, shall cause you to die;
then shall he be returned to your Lord” (32:11). The name of this

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
angel is, according to tradition, ‘Izrá’íl or Azrá’íl (the servant of
the Highest), in English Azrael. He may be compared to Ezrael, the
angel of divine wrath of the Christian apocrypha. Rúmí defines
him as “tyrannous and enraged” [Mathnaví 5:1571]. The tradition
describes Izrá’íl as an enormous angel who appears in a different
shape to believers and unbelievers. He appears to a dying believer
as a pleasant and reassuring vision, but to an infidel as the most
terrifying figure.
As to Gabriel, Bahá’u’lláh writes. “Such were the joy and the
ecstasy and the delight and the happiness, that the breath of the Holy
Spirit hath wafted from the moldering bones and the Spirit of Faith
hath winged its flight on the wings of success.” Shoghi Effendi
translates the locution Rú˙u’l-Amín [literally, the Trusted Spirit]
“Gabriel” [GWB 103, sec. 50], and “Spirit of God” [KI 114, π121].
Rúmí Writes: “Since the Name of Ahmad became (to the
Christians) an impregnable fortress, what then must be the Essence
of that trusted Spirit?” [1:738]. According to Nurbakhsh “The
trusted Spirit normally refers to Gabriel, although occasionally in
Rumi’s Mathnaví it may represent the Mo˙ammadan Spirit” [9:100].

As to Isráfíl, Bahá’u’lláh writes: “The Isráfíl of life wondereth
with which melody he could wake up these companions and
beseecheth that haply he may share their swoon (bí-húshí).” Israfíl,
whose etymology could be the same as Seraphim, corresponds to the
English Seraphiel. In the Muslim tradition he is the angel who in the
Day of Judgement will awake the dead “calling” them with his
trumpet. The Qur’án [54:6-8] calls him “the summoner (dá’í)”. Rúmí
describes him as the “life of the body,” whereas he describes Gabriel
as the “life of the inspired spirit” [Mathnaví 5:1566, 1565]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has reportedly said that the two angels ‘Izrá’íl and Isráfíl are symbols:
As by the will of God the power of composition exists, so,
also by will of God the power of decomposition exists.
These two are expressed in scripture by “Isráfíl” the angel
who gives life to men, and the Angel of Death who takes it
away. The first is the power of composition or attraction, the
other the power of decomposition. They are not angels. [qtd.
in Goodall and Goodall Cooper 43-4]

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
and God best knoweth the right course
(w’alláhua‘lambi’ß-ßawáb)
This statement is frequently used by Rúmí in his Mathnaví. It comes
from a Koranic verse which says: “The Day that the Spirit and the
angels will stand forth in ranks, none shall speak except any who is
permitted by (Allah) Most Gracious, and he will say what is right (aß-
ßawában)” [78:38, Yusuf Ali].
verily, unto Him shall we return [Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3906,
Koran 2:156]
This Koranic verse is often used in the Bahá’í Writings, as for
example the Seven Valleys, The Four Valleys, and Javáhiru’l-Asrár. It
is an allusion to the so called “second birth,” that is, that process
whereby the human soul gradually detaches itself from the lower
world, and actualizes its God-given spiritual attributes.
The contents of the Tablet
It is not certainly easy to summarize the contents of a Tablet
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. He quotes an Islamic tradition which says:
“We speak one word, and by it we intend one and seventy meanings;
each one of these meanings we can explain” [KI 255, π283]. And thus
we will be satisfied with a very short review of this inspiring Text.
Bahá’u’lláh wishes that the most cherished desires of His addressee
may be fulfilled. However, He suggests that the highest aspiration of
a human heart, that is, the attainment unto His Holy Presence, will be
fulfilled, only if the soul will forget anything else but its Lord. This
overall concept is conveyed, in a language enriched by poetical
images and quotations, through six different explanations.
First. The first quotation — ”Last night the shaikh went all about the
city, lamp in hand crying, ‘I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire’” [Rúmí, Mystical Poems 1:46, no. 51, v.14] — is in itself, as it often
is the case with mystic writings, an epitome of the whole Tablet. The
shaykh is tired to meet with people who may be compared to “beast
and devil,” he wants to finally find a real human being. And
Bahá’u’lláh wrote later in a Tablet: “Lofty is the station of man, were

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
he to hold fast to righteousness and truth and to remain firm and
steadfast in the Cause. In the eyes of the All-Merciful a true man
appeareth even as a firmament; its sun and moon are his sight and
hearing, and his shining and resplendent character its stars. His is the
loftiest station, and his influence educateth the world of being” [TB
219, Kitáb-i-Ahd]. Therefore the whole Tablet is about the quest for a
man who has attained unto his divinely appointed lofty station.
Second. The second quotation emphasizes the importance of
detachment in two different perspectives:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose [SV 60].
With that rose bud no one sleeps with a shirt.
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two
qiblas,
Either one will please the Beloved, or will consent to
one’s passions. [Saná’í, Díván [Furúzánfar] 253]
The first verse recommends detachment through the language of
erotic-mystical poetry: the closest intimacy with the Beloved requires
that the lover takes off even his shirt. Soon after the Tablet suggests
that the most important detachment is that from oneself, here
described as a veil: “Óáfiẓ! thou thyself art thy own veil. From the
midst, arise” [Óáfiẓ, Díván 534, 308:9]. The second verse uses the
language of the ascetic. The ascetic cannot have two qiblihs.
Nurbakhsh explains that the qiblih “symbolizes the focus of attention
of the heart” [3:101]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said on the subject of the
attachment of the heart:
God has given man a heart and the heart must have some
attachment. We have proved that nothing is completely
worthy of our heart’s devotion save reality, for all else is
destined to perish. Therefore the heart is never at rest and
never finds real joy and happiness until it attaches itself to
the eternal. How foolish the bird that builds its nest in a tree
that may perish when it could build its nest in an ever-
verdant garden of paradise.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Man must attach himself to an infinite reality, so that his
glory, his joy, and his progress may be infinite. Only the
spirit is real; everything else is as shadow. [ADP 133]
Third. Later on the Tablet explains that if Jacob would have been
wholly purified from his attachment to the world, he would have
found Joseph even without the assistance of his shirt. It is a reference
to the story of Joseph, that has been explained above [Koran 12:93-96].
Fourth. The Tablet explains that only through detachment the
meaning of the Koranic verse 28:88, “Everything will perish except
His own Face,” will become apparent. In other words, only a
detached person is able to look at the world “with the eye of God”
[SV 17] and thus to behold “the brilliant rays of the divine sun shining
from the dawning-point of Essence alike on all created things, and
the lights of singleness reflected over all creation” [ibid.].
Fifth. A detached person recognizes the Perfect Man even in the smell
of the hair of the camel of Uwaysu’l-Qaraní. The Uways of the legend
worked as the guardian of the camels of his tribe and wore a rough
cloak made of camel hair [see Attár, Tadhkiratu’l-Awlya, Dhikr 2]. He was
an ascetic and lived in loneliness, detached from all the things of the
world. He was so poor and destitute, that no one would have thought
him to be a true saint. This reference to Uways is followed by a passage,
that is not easily comprehensible. It could allude to the fact that the
time was not yet ripe for Bahá’u’lláh to announce His Manifestation.
Sixth. Only a detached seeker will see the Phoenix winging its flight
and taking its place in the city of the soul. The Phoenix is the symbol
of the Manifestation of God. The city of the soul is the symbol of the
human heart. This image is reminiscent of one of the images of the
Seven Valleys:
Whensoever the light of Manifestation of the King of
Oneness settleth upon the throne of the heart and soul, His
shining becometh visible in every limb and member. At that
time the mystery of the famed tradition gleameth out of the
darkness: “A servant is drawn unto Me in prayer until I
answer him; and when I have answered him, I become the ear
wherewith he heareth....” For thus the Master of the house
hath appeared within His home, and all the pillars of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
dwelling are ashine with His light. And the action and effect
of the light are from the Light-Giver; so it is that all move
through Him and arise by His will. [SV 22]
In both cases the Manifestation of God takes His place in a human heart
that approaches Him in a detached attitude of prayer and adoration.
The Tablet ends with a difficult passage, which could allude to
Bahá’u’lláh’s high station, here described as that of One to Whom
angels promptly render service.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1. Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, Iran, n.d. Vol. 7. Iran: Mu‘assisiy-i-Millíy-i-Ma†bú‘át-i-Amrí, n.d.
———. “Recent Tablets from Abdul-Bahá to American Bahais,” Star of the
West 10.17 (19 January 1920): 316-20.
———. “Tablets received by American Bahais in 1919,” Star of the West
11.10 (8 September 1920): 159, 163-8.
———. “Tablets revealed by Abdul-Bahá in the winter of 1916-17, but just
received in America,” Star of the West 9.17 (19 January 1919): 197-9.
———. “Tablets to Bahais in America received in 1919 and 1920,” Star of
the West, vol. 11, no. 18 (7 February 1921), pp. 306-8.
‘Attár, Faridu’d-Dín. Tadhkirat al-Awliyá, available at
http://ganjoor.net/attar/tazkerat-ol-ouliya/ (accessed 10 November
2016).
Bahá’u’lláh. Majmú‘iy-i-Áthár-Qalam-i-A‘lá [Collected Letters of
Bahá’u’lláh], vol. 36, Teheran: Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA)
Private Printing, 1977.
Bausani, Alessandro. “Ghazal. ii. In Persian literature,” in
Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Blomfield, Lady (Sara Louise). The Chosen Highway. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1940. RP Oxford: George Ronald, 2007.
Bosworth, Clifford Edmund. ‘Uways al-Ḳaraní’, in Encyclopaedia of
Islam.
Browne, Edward G. (Ed.)A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the
Episode of the Báb. Amsterdam: Philo Press, 1975.
Corbin, Henry. The Man of Light in Iranian Sufism, Omega Publications,
New Lebanion, New York, 1971.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Goodall, Helen S.; Goodall Cooper, Ella. Daily Lessons Received at
‘Akká, January 1908. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
Óáfiẓ, Shams ad-Dín. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H. Wilberforce
Clarke. Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997. Available at
http://www.archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/
thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt (accessed 16 September 2017).
———. Díván-i-ash‘ár. Available at http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&
mod=classicpoems&obj=poet&id=20 (accessed 16 September 2017).
Lewis, Franklin D. “A Short Poem by ‘Darvísh’ Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh,
Saqí az ghayb-ibaqá burqa‘ bar afkanazidhár. An Introduction and
Three Versions of Provisional English Translations,” in Lights of
‘Irfán, vol. 2, pp. 83-91.
Mázandarání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il. Asráru’l-Athar. 5 vols. Tehran:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 124–129 BE/ 1968–1973.
Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam (Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandi). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated by
Shoghi Effendi. New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1932.
Nurbakhsh, Javad. Sufi Symbolism: The Nurbakhsh Encyclopedia of Sufi
Terminology (Farhang-e Nurbakhsh), vol. 16. London: Khaniqahi-
Nimatullah Publications, 1986-2004.
“Preface and Notes,” in Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. xx-ix, 167-249.
Radmihr, Faridud Din. Samávát-i-Sulúk [The heavens of the path]: Sharhí
bar ‘ibárát, ishárát, kalimát, ahádíth, ash‘árvaáyát Mubárakih
mundarijdar Chihár Vádí. Unpublished.
Rafati, Vahid. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘árdar Áthár-i-Bahá’í, Má’akhidh-i-
Ash‘ár-i-Fársí (Sources of Persian Poetry in the Bahá’í Writings), Alif-
Thih. Vol. 2. Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in
Persian, 1995.
———. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘árdar Áthár-i-Bahá’í. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘ár-i-Fársí
(Sources of Persian Poetry in the Bahá’í Writings), Jím-Zá. Vol. 3.
Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 2000.
———. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘árdar Áthár-i-Bahá’í. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘ár-i-Fársí
(Sources of Persian Poetry in the Bahá’í Writings), Zhih-Gaf. Vol. 4.
Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 2004.
———. Yádnámih-yi Mißbá˙-i Munír. Hofheim: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
2006.
RíRá. Kitábkhániy-i-Ázád-i-Fársí. RíRá [RiRa] is the Free Persian Digital
Library, providing access to Persian literature in public domain or
explicitly authorized for public use. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/ (accessed 16 September 2017).

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Rúmí, Jalálú’d-Dín. The Mathnawí of Jalálu’dín Rúmí, edited from the
oldest manuscripts available: with critical notes, translation and
commentary by Reynold A. Nicholson ..., vols. 2, 4, 6. Warminster,
Wiltshire: Trustees of the E.J.W. Gibb Memorial Series, 1926.
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 1: First Selection, Poems 1-200 translated
from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Chicago and London:
University of Chicago Press, 1968.
———. Selected Poems from the Divani Shamsi Tabriz. Edited and
translated by Reynold A. Nicholson. London: Cambridge University
Press, 1898.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A
Phenomenological Approach to Islam. Albany, NY: State University of
New York Press, 1994.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary
Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met with in Persian
Literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.



NOTES
1 A verse very similar to this may be found in a ghazal by Mußlihu’d-Dín
Sa‘dí (ca. 1184–1291). See Rafati, Má’akhidh 4:81-4. It says: “Shíráz will
be thrown into a tumult by Thine upsetting and joyous gaze | I fear lest
this turmoil may inflame Shíráz (Shírázpur-ghawgháshud-ast az fitniy-i-
chashm-i-khushat | tars-am kiháshúbí ‘ajab bar ham zanad Shíráz-rá).”
2 Bahá’u’lláh, qtd. in Rafati, Yádnámih 296, provisional translation by Omid
Ghaemmaghami. The authors thank Mr. Ghaemmaghami for having given
his permission to use it in this paper.
3 We did not find this ghazal in the collections of Rúmí’s ghazals recorded
on the Internet.
4 A Muzafarrid king of Iran, who reigned between ca. 1391 and ca. 1393.
5 Sháh Ni‘matulláh Valí (1330-1431) was a Sufi master and poet.

A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh 1
provisional translation by Julio Savi and Faezeh
Mardani
Last night the shaikh went all about the city, lamp in hand
crying, “I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire.”2
O loving friend, I render thanks unto God that thou art, on the
whole, in good health, and that the stainless mirror of thine heart
telleth of the tokens and ecstasies of thy soul. May, God willing,
thine heart’s purpose be attained and thy soul’s wish be fulfilled,
although it is preferred that we purify this luminous tablet, which is
among the pages of illuminated breasts, from the allusions of both
and that we hasten naked unto the wide plain of the spirit, as it was
said by the divine sage:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose. [FV 60]
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two qiblas,
Either one will please the Beloved, or will consent to one’s
passions.3
Not only the shirt but being itself becometh a veil, and otherness a
curtain. The scholar of Shíráz hath said: “Óáfiẓ! thou thyself art thy
own veil. From the midst, arise.”4

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Likewise, should the Jacob of love have cleansed the essence of his
heart and soul from the foulness of water and clay, undoubtedly he
would have not necessitated the Egyptian shirt, or an announcer
bringing him the glad tiding, or an ambassador speaking to him. On
the contrary, he would have perceived the pure and sanctified breezes
from the north of the Spirit and he would have dwelt in perfect union
with the Beloved.
He would have tasted the joy of the Divine Presence and the
ecstasy of the flavor of subsistence from the fount of purity, and he
would have obtained the eternal life and everlasting perpetuity, and
he would have entered into the immortal Paradise after the spiritual
resurrection. He would have seen a thousand Josephs circling in
adoration without any voice of complaint and would have received
the sweetness of the Egypt of fidelity from the City of the court of
the Incomparable.
Yea, as long as the impurities of the world of multiplicity, whose
only outcome is death, will not be destroyed and annihilated, the
eternal countenance of His Face will not come out unconcealed from
the veils, and the meaning of “Everything will perish except His own
Face”5 will not become manifest from the lucid brow. What else can I
write? One ought to perceive the perfume of the Beloved from
Uways’ camel hair. As the Mathnaví’s author says:
The perfume of the Beloved exaleth from the camel hair.
This camel is of the herd of that pearl who is Lord Uways.
However, the musky fragrance of the Beloved and the breezes of the
Merciful have ceased to waft from the Yemen of the Friend.
Yea, the casket of the white pearl is concealed within the sea shell,
inasmuch as the untouched pearl, which bestows perfect power upon
the inner powers of the heart and adds the light of vision to
intelligence, is more acceptable and agreeable. May its concealment
be conducive to revelation, and its occultation be followed by an
unveiling, or a child clarify this symbolic language, or a power break
this seal.
When seeds are hidden in the earth, their inward secret
becomes the verdure of the garden.6

A Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
Imagine what will the power of the Friend’s arm do?
O dear one, thy Companion sayeth that one ought to be purified
from the defilement of imitation, so that the Phoenix of the West
may emerge from the Orient of the Beloved and wing its flight into
the sanctified atmosphere of the Spirit, that is the city of the soul.
I swear by God! Even if the armies of death would ride at full
gallop, they will not catch up with the dust lifted by this Horseman,
and ‘Isrá’íl, the angel of death, will stand as a servant at His door,
ready to serve Him, and will implore favors from whoever is bound
towards His sanctuary, that haply he may be accepted in the court of
glory, and may circle in adoration in those lofty precincts, which are
loftier than a shining star, and he may perceive.
Praise be to God! The breeze of love hath wafted and hath
perfumed the assembly of intimacy. The Spirit hath intoned a new
melody. The lovers of the desert of the intellect have swooned away
because of the call from the Unseen. Such were the joy and the
ecstasy and the delight and the happiness, that the breath of the Holy
Spirit hath wafted from the moldering bones and Gabriel hath winged
its flight on the wings of success. The Isráfíl of life wondereth with
which melody he could wake up these companions and beseecheth
that haply he may share their swoon.
I will cease (from speech): the Sweetheart has begun to speak,
be (all) ear — and God best knoweth the right course.7
In this day life hath come out of my body, It sayeth to me:
verily, unto Him shall we return.8



NOTES
1 Quoted in Ráfatí, Má’akhidh 3281-2. See also Majmu‘ih 36:374-6.
2 Rúmí, Mystical Poems 1:46, no. 51, v.14.
3 Saná’í, Díván (Furúzánfar) 253.
4 Óáfiẓ, Díván 534, 308:9.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


5 Koran 28:88, Yusuf Ali.
6 Rúmí, Mathnaví 1:177.
7 Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3844.
8 Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3906, Koran 2:156.

Ancient Poems as Means of Revelation,
in an Early Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Abstract
This paper offers a provisional translation of a Persian Tablet
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in the Iraqi period [above]. The Tablet is rich
in quotations from ancient Iranian poets. Our paper examines the
importance of poetry in the history of the Faith and in its Writings.
It analyzes the quoted poems and the many poetical metaphors used
in the Tablet. It ends with a short commentary on the contents of the
Tablet: absolute detachment is a fundamental prerequisite for
attaining “unto the divine Presence.”
The authors learned about this Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh through a
publication by Vahid Rafati, Má’akhidh 3:281-2. This book is part of
a set of four Persian volumes, commendably published by Rafati, in
which he lists one by one all verses quoted by Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Their Writings and examines them in their contexts.
This Tablet, wholly written in Persian, is also published in Majmú‘iy-
i-Áthár-Qalam-i-A‘lá 36:374-6. According to Rafati it was revealed in
Baghdad. The Iranian Bahá’í scholar Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il
Mázandarání (ca. 1880–1957) states that it was revealed in Kurdistan
(Asráru’l-Áthár 5:15). Its mystical subject is certainly typical of the
Writings composed by Bahá’u’lláh in that period.
We have been especially impressed by this Tablet, not only
because of its contents, that emphasizes absolute detachment as an

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
indispensable prerequisite for the “attainment unto the Divine
Presence” [KI 141, π149], but also because in the short space of two
pages offers six quotations of verses by three different poets. And
this has appeared to us as a sign of the importance that Bahá’u’lláh
ascribed to poetry.
Poetry in the history of the Faith and in the
Writings
Nabíl narrates that the Báb told him about a verse by Óáfiẓ which
says: “O zephyr, shouldst thou pass by the banks of the Araxes,
implant a kiss on the earth of that valley and make fragrant thy
breath. Hail, a thousand times hail, to thee, O abode of Salma! How
dear is the voice of thy camel-drivers, how sweet the jingling of thy
bells!” [see Díván 537, no. 310, vv.1-2]:
It is the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit that causes
words such as these to stream from the tongue of poets, the
significance of which they themselves are oftentimes unable
to apprehend. The following verse is also divinely inspired:
‘Shíráz will be thrown into a tumult; a Youth of sugar-tongue
will appear. I fear lest the breath of His mouth should agitate
and upset Baghdád.’1 The mystery enshrined within this verse
is now concealed; it will be revealed in the year after Him.”
The Báb subsequently quoted this well-known tradition:
“Treasures lie hidden beneath the throne of God; the key to
those treasures is the tongue of poets. [DB 258-9]
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá were both refined poets. One of “the
first fruits of ... [Bahá’u’lláh’s] Divine Pen” that arrived into our
hands is a Persian poem entitled Rash˙-i-‘Amá, that was “revealed in
Ṭihrán” [GPB 121]. And Rash˙-i-‘Amá is just one among many Persian
and Arabic poems revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’u’lláh praised Mírzá
Maqßúd, one of the believers who lived in Damascus and Jerusalem,
because of a number of poems he sent to him, and described those
poems as being “like unto a mirror in which the evidences of the
devotion and love ... [he cherished] for God and His chosen ones ...
[were] reflected” [TB 175, Law˙-i-Maqßúd]. He wrote about poetry in
general:

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Blessed the poet who hath been filled with the spirit of the
Day of God and from whose words hath wafted the sweet-
smelling savour of the love of his Lord, the All-Merciful,
over all created things. Such a one is, in truth, among the
blissful. Woe betide the poet who hath drawn spears of
sarcasm toward people and turned away from this Wondrous
Remembrance. Keep in mind the grace of God in causing
your tongues to unlock treasures and to reveal wisdom and
mysteries. Let God be your fear and be not of the heedless.
This is the day to celebrate His praise, the day in which the
Creator of the heavens hath appeared with the kingdom of
your Lord, the Almighty, the All-Praised. [provisional translation
by Omid Ghaemmaghami]2
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself wrote various poems both in Persian and
Turkish. He pointed out the special value of words in poetry when
He said: “Poetry is much more effective and complete than prose. It
stirs more deeply, for it is of a finer composition” [CC 2:78]. And
reportedly said: “All Art is a gift of the Holy Spirit. When this light
shines through the mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful
harmonies. Again, shining through the mind of a poet, it is seen in
fine poetry and poetic prose. When the Light of the Sun of Truth
inspires the mind of a painter, he produces marvelous pictures. These
gifts are fulfilling their highest purpose, when showing forth the
praise of God” [CH 167]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expressed His admiration for
those among His fellows-prisoners who, like Nabíl-i-Zarandí, Darvísh
Ṣidq-‘Alí, Áqá Muhammad-Ibráhím, Ustad ‘Alí-Akbar and Jináb-i-
Muníb [MF 32-6, 36-8, 81-2, 102-3, 145-7] had a fine poetical vein. He
received poems from a number of Western Bahá’ís, which He often
acknowledged with words of approval. To James Simpson, He wrote
that his poems showed that he was “ablaze with the burning fire of
the love of God,” that he had “secured a share and portion from the
bounty of the Spirit and ... purposed to render a distinguished service
to the divine Kingdom and to be the cause of the promulgation of
the oneness of mankind” [Tablets Received 166]. To Marie Watson He
wrote that her poems were “in the utmost sweetness and delicacy”
[Tablets to Bahais 307]. To Louise R. Waite, who was both a poetess and
a musician, and to whom He conferred the title of Shahnáz — which
is the name of a musical mode — He wrote that her poems were “in
the utmost eloquence and sweetness” [Recent Tablets 318], “wonderful

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
... fluent ... and ... most thrilling” [Tablets revealed 198], “sweet
melodies in the Rose garden of the love of God” [Tablets to Bahais 276],
“the cause of the gladness of their hearers” [Recent Tablets 318], and
that their “vibration” would “forever, give pleasure to the ears of the
children of the Kingdom” [Tablets to Bahais 276]. He advised her, to
strive “in the composition of such pieces, so that at all times the river
of pure poesy may flow from ... [her] tongue” [Tablets revealed 198].
To other poets, whose names have not been identified, He wrote: “I
chanted thy poem. Its significance was beautiful, its composition
eloquent and its words excellent. It was like the melody of the birds
of holiness in the paradise of El-Abha ... Blessed art thou for uttering
forth such an excellent poem and brilliant pearl” [Tablets 1: 57]. And
also: “Verily, I read thy poem, which contained new significances and
beautiful words. My heart was dilated by its eloquent sense” [Tablets
1:58]. And moreover: “Thy little book of poems, which were very
sweet, was read. It was a source of joy, for it was a spiritual anthem
and a melody of the love of God” [Tablets 1:59]. And finally: “Thy
poetry was received. The context was elegant. The words were
eloquent and the theme, the Manifest Light. Consequently, it was
highly appreciated” [Tablets 3:546]. He openly encouraged some of
those poets. He wrote to one of them: “Verily, these verses shall be
sung in the divine meetings and in the assemblages of the spiritual in
the course of ages and centuries to come, for thou hast uttered the
praise of thy Lord and expressed significant meanings in eulogy of
thy Lord, the Merciful, the Clement” [Tablets 1:58]. And to another
one: “Endeavour your utmost to compose beautiful poems to be
chanted with heavenly music; thus may their beauty affect the minds
and impress the hearts of those who listen” [Tablets 1:59]. And finally:
“finish the poem which thou art composing and send it here, that
through reading it the breast of the believers may be refreshed and
dilated with joy” [Tablets 3:669].
The earliest believers wrote poems and Shoghi Effendi describes
“[t]he joyous feasts which these companions, despite their extremely
modest earnings, continually offered in honor of their Beloved; the
gatherings, lasting far into the night, in which they loudly celebrated,
with prayers, poetry and song, the praises of the Báb, of Quddús and
of Bahá’u’lláh” [GPB 135] in the late Baghdád period. No wonder then
that both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá drew from the poetic Arabic
and Persian legacy in the Writings which They revealed. Western

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
readers are especially familiar with the Seven Valleys and the Four
Valleys, as works comprising many poetical quotations.
Poems quoted in this Tablet
In this Tablet Bahá’u’lláh quotes Khájih Shamsu’d-Dín Mu˙ammad
Óáfiẓ-i-Shírází (ca. 1318–1390), Mawláná Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí (1207–
1273) and Majdúd Saná’í (ca. 1045–ca. 1141). As to Óáfiẓ He quotes
an hemistich from a ghazal, “a shorter, sonnet-like, lyrical form,
observing mono-rhyme, the conventional meters and other prosodic
rules” [Lewis, “Short Poem” 83]. As to Rúmí, He quotes a distich from a
known ghazal at the beginning of the Tablet; and a distich of another
ghazal, which has not yet been identified, in the context of the
Tablet; He also quotes a distich from the Mathnaví in the context of,
and two different distiches from the same Mathnaví, at the end of the
Tablet. As to Saná’í, He quotes two distiches from a ghazal in the
context of His Tablet.
The hemistich by Óáfiẓ says: “Óáfiẓ! thou thyself art thy own veil.
From the midst, arise.” The whole ghazal has been translated into
English by Henri Wilberforce-Clark (1840–1905), an officer in the
British India corps, first translator of the Bústán of Sa‘dí (1257) and
of the Sikandar Námih by Nízamí (ca. 1202) [Óáfiẓ, Díván 534, no. 308]:
Ravished is my heart by one like a singing girl, clamour-
exciter,
False of promise, slayer by nature, and colour (of deceit)-
mixer.
A ransom for the rent garment of those of moon-face, be
A thousand garments of piety and the khirka of austerity!
In thanks for that that, in beauty, thou tookest from the
(glorious) angel the ball of superiority,
The cup, demand; and on Adam’s dust, a little water
sprinkle.
Poor and shattered, to Thy court, I have come. A little pity,
For, save attachment to Thee, attachment, mine is none.
The slave, I am of that word that enkindleth the fire (of
love):

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Not (the slave of that word, that), in speech, dasheth cold
water on the fierce fire (of love).
Come; for last night, to me, the invisible messenger spake,
Saying: “In contentment’s stage, be; from destiny, flee
not.”
Of thy own arm, be not proud; for in record it is:
“In (by, under) the order of the king-maker a thousand
arrayings.”
In my coffin, put up the cup; so that, on the morning of
rising,
I may, with wine, take from my heart the terror of the day
up-rising and springing.
Between the lover and the Beloved, veil is none:
Hafiz! thou thyself art thy own veil. From the midst, arise;
and attain unto the Beloved.
It is a beautiful love poem, in which the “one like a singing girl” is
the Beloved, with capital B. The poet sings His beauty, His cruelty,
and his own dependence on Him. He concludes with a distich of high
mysticism, whose second hemistich is quoted by Bahá’u’lláh, in which
he mentions that he should be annihilated, so that he may be united
with the Beloved. It is the usual concept of faná, which Bahá’u’lláh
later on described in such Writings as the Seven Valleys, in the Valley
of True Poverty and Utter Nothingness [SV 36-9], and Gems of Divine
Mysteries, in the City of Absolute Nothingness [GDM 70-1, π101-4].
As to Rúmí, Bahá’u’lláh gives preference to him over other poets
in this Tablet, as in other Writings, as for example the Seven Valleys.
And thus He quotes Him five times, comprising at the beginning and
at the end of the Tablet. His love towards Rúmí is demonstrated by
an episode of His life, recorded by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Master narrates
in His description of the life of Ustád Ismá’íl, one of the companions
who followed Bahá’u’lláh in the Holy Land, that:
At one time, Bahá’u’lláh had written down an ode of Rúmí’s
for him, and had told him to turn his face toward the Báb and
sing the words, set to a melody. And so as he wandered
through the long dark nights, Ustád would sing these lines:

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
I am lost, O Love, possessed and dazed,
Love’s fool am I, in all the earth.
They call me first among the crazed,
Though I once came first for wit and worth.
O Love, who sellest me this wine,
O Love, for whom I burn and bleed,
Love, for whom I cry and pine –
Thou the Piper, I the reed.
If Thou wishest me to live,
Through me blow Thy holy breath.
The touch of Jesus Thou wilt give
To me, who’ve lain an age in death.
Thou, both End and Origin.
Thou without and Thou within –
From every eye Thou hidest well,
And yet in every eye dost dwell. [MF 30-1]3
The verse by Rúmí quoted at the opening of the Tablet reads as
follows:
Last night the shaikh went all about the city, lamp in hand
crying, ‘I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire.’
This ghazal has been entirely translated into English by both Reynold
A. Nicholson (1868–1945), an expert in Sufism and especially in the
work of Rúmí [Selected Poems 65-9, no. 16], and Arthur John Arberry
(1905–1969), the well-known British orientalist [Mystical Poems 1:46, no.
51, v. 14]. It comprises 24 verses, and thus like many of Rúmí’s ghazal
is quite longer than usual ghazals, which according to the Italian
Iranist Alessandro Bausani (1921–1988) comprise “generally not less
than five and no more than twelve” [“Ghazal. ii. In Persian literature”).
The Bahá’í world knows its verse 20, “In one hand the wine-cup, in
one hand the tresses of the Friend. Such a dance in the midst of the
market-place is my desire!”, because Shoghi Effendi adds this note to
the Dawn Breakers [DB 620n1]:

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The extraordinary heroism with which Sulaymán Khán bore
these frightful tortures is notorious and I have repeatedly
heard it related how he ceased not during the long agony
which he endured to testify his joy that he should be
accounted worthy to suffer martyrdom for his Master's
cause. He even sang and recited verses of poetry, amongst
them the following: “I have returned! I have returned! I have
come by the way of Shíráz! I have come with winsome airs
and graces! Such is the lover’s madness!” “Why do you not
dance,” asked the executioners mockingly, “since you find
death so pleasant?” “Dance!” cried Sulaymán Khán. “In one
hand the wine-cup, in one hand the tresses of the Friend. Such
a dance in the midst of the market-place is my desire!”
[Browne, “A Traveller’s Narrative,” Note T, pp. 333-4]
Its central theme is the quest after the Perfect Man. But it also can be
interpreted as the quest after a human being that has made great
progress on the path of spiritual quest, among many other spiritual
immature human beings. This is the whole poem in Arberry’s
translation:
Show your face, for the orchard and rosegarden are my
desire; open your lips, for abundant sugar is my
desire.
Sun of beauty, come forth one moment out of the cloud,
for that glittering, glowing countenance is my
desire.
Out of your air I heard the sound of the falcon-drum; I
returned, for the sultan's forearm is my desire.
You said capriciously, “Trouble me no more; be gone!” That
saying of yours, “Trouble me no more,” is my desire,
And your repulse, “Be gone, the king is not at home,” and
those mighty airs and brusqueness of the
doorkeeper, are my desire.
In the hand of every one who exists there are filings of
beauty; that quarry of elegance and that mine are my
desire.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
This bread and water of heaven’s wheel are like a
treacherous torrent; I am a fish, a leviathan, Oman is
my desire.
Like Jacob I am crying alas, alas; the fair visage of Joseph
of Canaan is my desire.
By Allah, without you the city is a prison for me; I wander
abroad, mountain and desert are my desire.
My heart is weary of these weak-spirited fellow-travellers;
the Lion of God and Rustam-i Dastán are my desire.
My soul is sick of Pharaoh and his tyranny; that light of the
countenance of Moses son of ‘Imrán is my desire.
I am aweary of these tearful people so full of complaining;
that ranting and roaring of the drunkards is my
desire.
I am more eloquent than the nightingale, but because of
vulgar envy a seal is on my tongue, and lamentation
is my desire.
Last night the shaikh went all about the city, lamp in hand,
crying, “I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire.”
They said, “He is not to be found, we too have searched.”
He answered, “He who is not to be found is my
desire.”
Though I am penniless, I will not accept a small carnelian,
for that rare, precious carnelian is my desire.
Hidden from every eye, and all things seen are from Him —
that hidden One manifest in works is my desire.
My state has gone beyond every desire and yearning; from
mine and place to the elements is my desire.
My ear heard the tale of faith and became drunk; where is
the portion of sight? The form of faith is my desire.
In one hand the winecup, in the other the Beloved’s curl —
to dance so in the midst of the arena is my desire.
That rebeck says, “I am dead of expectation; the hand and
bosom and plectrum of ‘Uthmán are my desire.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
I am at once Love’s rebeck, and Love is my rebeck-player;
those favours of the plucking of the All-merciful are
my desire.
Cunning minstrel, number the rest of this ode after this
fashion, for it is after this fashion I desire.
Show your face from the east, Sun of the Pride of Tabriz; I
am the hoopoe, the presence of Solomon is my
desire.
The second quoted ghazal by Rúmí is as follows:
The perfume of the Beloved exaleth from the camel hair.
This camel is of the herd of that pearl who is Lord Uways.
Rafati writes that he did not find this distich in the edition of the
Díván by Rúmí edited by Ṣafí ‘Alí Sháh in 1361 or 1982–83 AD
[Má’akhidh 2:275]. We too could not find it in the edition of Rúmí’s
Díván published by the website RíRá, the Free Persian Digital
Library, providing access to Persian literature in public domain. This
distich will be commented upon in the part of this paper devoted to
the poetical language of the Tablet.
The first distich from Rúmí’s Mathnaví quoted by Bahá’u’lláh in
our Tablet is as follows:
When seeds are hidden in the earth, their inward secret
becomes the verdure of the garden. [Mathnaví 1:177]
This distich is part of a story that narrates of a great king who saw a
slave girl, fell in love with her, and bought her, but the girl became
sick and none of the king’s physicians could heal her. Finally, one day
the king found a doctor, who was well known for his special skill. He
brought him to his slave and the physician asked to be left alone with
her. In his interview with the slave he discovered that the cause of her
sickness was that she was in love with a goldsmith from Samarkand.
The doctor promised the girl that he would help her, but asked her
not to reveal her secret to anyone else. And Rúmí comments upon
this advice as follows:
The Prophet said that any one who hides his inmost thought
will soon attain to the object of his desire.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
When seeds are hidden in the earth, their inward secret
becomes the verdure of the garden.
If gold and silver were not hidden, how would they get
nourishment (grow and ripen) in the mine? [ibid.
1:176-8]
Two verses from this long story are quoted in the Four Valleys:
Let us write, some other way,
Love’s secrets — better so. [Mathnaví 1:136, SV 64]
Leave blood and noise and all of these,
And say no more of Shams-i-Tabriz. [Mathnaví 1:142, SV 65]
The two distiches quoted at the end of the Tablet are as follows:
I will cease (from speech): the Sweetheart has begun to
speak, be (all) ear — and God best knoweth the right
course. [Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3844]
In this day life hath come out of my body, It sayeth to me:
verily, unto Him shall we return. [see Rúmí, Mathnaví
3:3906, Koran 2:156]
The first distich repeats a typical topos of Persian lyrical poetry: at
the end of a discourse the poet states that he has concluded his
argument. In this case, he explains that whenever the Beloved speaks,
any other voice becomes superfluous. The second one ascribes silence
to the attainment unto annihilation.
Finally, Bahá’u’lláh quotes two distiches by Saná’í. The first one
also is quoted in the Four Valleys:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose. [SV 60]
[which could also be translated: With that rose bud
no one sleeps with a shirt.]
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two qiblas,
Either one will please the Beloved, or will consent to one’s
passions.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
These verses are part of a ghazal which says:
Don the garb of faith, so that you may last forever; if
you won’t die in this garb, you will become
rotten with your shroud.
Faith swallows this and the Other world in a breath, as
soon as the leviathan of its pain opens its mouth.
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two
qiblas. Either one will please the Beloved or will
consent to one’s passions.
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of
hearts, Never the shrouded soul unite with
beauty’s rose. [SV 60]
Do not lift the veil of continence and shame from the
face of belief, that you may not be bewitched by
the evil eye of the unworthy.
Walk by the Qur’án, ’cause whoever takes refuge in the
Qur’án escapes the torments of the Other world
and the temptations of this one.

[Saná’í, Díván [Furúzánfar] 253, translated from the
Persian by the authors, except the couplet marked SV 60,
translated by Gail; see Radmihr, Samavát 558].
These two distiches also suggest detachment. It is symbolized in the
first one by the shirt, which the lower should take off, if he wants to
be really close to the Beloved; in the second one by the two qiblihs,
one of which — that of passion — should be abandoned, while
preserving only that of the Beloved.
Images used in the Tablet
This Tablet is written in the imaginative language typical of
Persian mystics, as most of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings revealed in the
Iraqi period. Some of the images may prove less comprehensible for
Westerners and thus some of them will be shortly explained.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The Tablet of the Heart
At the beginning of this Tablet Bahá’u’lláh writes: “May, God
willing, thine heart’s purpose be attained and thy soul’s wish be
fulfilled, although it is preferred that we purify this luminous tablet
(law˙-i-núr), which is among the pages of illuminated breasts
(ßafa˙át-i-af’adiy-i-munírih), from the allusions of both....” This
image is often used by the Sufis to describe the human heart, as the
essence of the soul. These are three examples, one from Rúmí and
two from Óáfiẓ, respectively:
Recite entirely this ode from the tablet of the heart; regard
not the tongue, for lips and tongue do not remain.
[Rúmí, Mystical Poems 1:83, no. 96, v.8]
From the tablet of my heart and soul, Thy image, ever goeth
not:
From my recollection, that proudly moving cypress ever
goeth not. [Óáfiẓ, Díván 462, no. 258, v.1]
On my heart’s tablet is naught save the (straight) alif of the
Friend’s stature:
What may I do? Me, recollection of other letter the teacher
(the murshid) gave not. [Óáfiẓ, Díván 703, no. 416, v.8]
Bahá’u’lláh Himself sometimes uses this image in other Writings.
For example He writes: “It behoveth every man to blot out the trace
of every idle word from the tablet of his heart, and to gaze, with an
open and unbiased mind, on the signs of His Revelation, the proofs
of His Mission, and the tokens of His glory” [GWB 11, sec.7, Súriy-i-
Qamíß]. He also writes: “... O my brother, when a true seeker
determineth to take the step of search in the path leading to the
knowledge of the Ancient of Days, he must ... wash away from the
tablet of his heart every trace of pride and vainglory” [KI 192-3, π213].
This image reminds us of the Aristotelian “tabula rasa” the unscribed
tablet [see Aristotle, De Anima [On the soul], 3:4, 430-31). The soul seems
described as a tablet upon which the beauteous features of the Face
of the Lord can be drawn through the combined efforts of pure love
and a purified intellect.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Dil-bar, the heart-ravisher
The image of the heart-ravisheror stealer of hearts (dil-bar),
“Heart-ravishing; a lovely woman, a sweetheart” [Steingass 531], is very
common in Persian mystical poetry. Javad Nurbakhsh (1926-2008), a
Sufi master who published a 16 volume encyclopedia entitled Sufi
Symbolism, explains that this locution, which he translates “heart-
ravisher,” “is said to represent the attribute of contraction
engendered in the heart through ‘anguish’ (anduh) and tribulation
(me˙nat)” [2:40]. Óáfiẓ uses this image in the following distich:
If of the Sul†án, I formed expectation, a fault it was:
If of the Heart-Ravisher (dil-bar), I sought fidelity,
tyranny he made. [Díván 242, no. 116, v.6; Díván
136, “Ghazalyát,” no. 130, v.5]
This image also is included in the verse of Saná’í that Bahá’u’lláh
quotes in this Tablet:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts
(dil-bar),
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose.
[SV 60]
The stealer of hearts describes the cruelty of the Beloved, Who
denies Himself to the absolute love of the lover, abandoning him to
his pains in the desert of loneliness and remoteness. It is an allusion
to God’s unknowability. In the Bahá’í Writings this topos is less
important, because Bahá’u’lláh has come to bring a glad tiding:
Behold how the manifold grace of God, which is being
showered from the clouds of Divine glory, hath, in this day,
encompassed the world. For whereas in days past every
lover besought and searched after his Beloved, it is the
Beloved Himself Who now is calling His lovers and is
inviting them to attain His presence. Take heed lest ye
forfeit so precious a favor; beware lest ye belittle so
remarkable a token of His grace. [GWB 319, sec. CLI, Law˙-i-
‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq]
The day of sadness for lovers are ended, a new age of joy has begun.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The Beauty’s rose
This image also belongs to Saná’í’s verses quoted by Bahá’u’lláh.
In the Sufi world the rose (gul) “symbolizes the result of the
knowledge that appears in the heart of the gnostic” (Nurbakhsh 4:39].
It may also be interpreted as “the supreme manifestation of Divine
beauty or the symbol of the beloved cheek” [Schimmel, Deciphering 26].
Annemarie Schimmel (1922–2003) explains: “in the Islamic tradition,
as elsewhere, the rose has pride of place. The Prophet kissed the rose
and placed it on his eyes, for ‘the red rose is part of God’s glory,
kibriya’. On the other hand, legend claims that the rose grew out of
the drops of perspiration which fell from the Prophet’s body during
his nightly journey — therefore it carries his sweet fragrance”
[Deciphering 20].
In the Bahá’í collective imagination the rose has come to be
especially associated with the story of Bahá’u’lláh’s Declaration in the
Garden of Ri∂ván in Baghdad, as described by Nabíl. A famous
passage by Bahá’u’lláh turns around the images of the rose-garden
and the flower par excellence, the rose: “In the Rose Garden of
changeless splendor a Flower hath begun to bloom, compared to
which every other flower is but a thorn, and before the brightness of
Whose glory the very essence of beauty must pale and wither” [GWB
320-1, sec. 151, π3, Law˙-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq].
Two qiblas
The above mentioned quotation by Saná’í goes on saying: “One
cannot advance in the path of oneness with two qiblas.” The Qiblih is
“The ‘Point of Adoration,’ that is, the point to which the worshipper
should turn when offering obligatory prayer, is called the Qiblih”
[“Preface and Notes” 168n7] and Bahá’u’lláh has decreed: “The Qiblih is
indeed He Whom God will make manifest; whenever He moveth, it
moveth, until He shall come to rest” [KA 68, π137]. The poetical image
is very clear: the qiblih “symbolizes the focus of the attention of the
heart” [Nurbakhsh 3:101] and the heart cannot at the same time turn
towards two goals. Either he loves the Beloved or he walks away from
Him. The Gospel also states: “No servant can serve two masters: for
either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon”
[Luke 16:13, KJB].
The veils
Bahá’u’lláh quotes an hemistich by Óáfiẓ which says: “Óáfiẓ! thou
thyself art thy own veil. From the midst, arise.” The Sufis think that
while living on this earthly world each person is separated from the
Reality hidden behind everything by many obstacles, which they call
“veils:” the veil of the flesh, the veil of passion, the veil of ignorance,
the veil of heedlessness, the veil of human learning, the veil of
attachment to the glories of the world, the veil of self, etcetera. This
image often recurs in the Bahá’í Writings. Bahá’u’lláh mentions the
“veils of glory” [KI 164, π175], the “veils of learning” [KI 214, π237],
the “veil of self” [GWB 316, sec. 147, Law˙-i-Salmán] “the veils of
heedlessness” [GWB 322, sec. 152, Law˙-i-A˙mad bi Fársí], the veils of
desire [SLH 31, sec. 1, π60. Súriy-i-Haykal], “veils of light” [TB 143, Law˙-i-
Óikmat), etcetera. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá classifies the veils as follows:
Know thou, verily, there are many veils in which the Truth is
enveloped: gloomy veils; then delicate and transparent veils;
then the envelopment of Light, the sight of which dazzles the
eyes, as doth the sun which is enveloped only in its own light
and, as we look at it, the sight is blinded and eyes are dazzled.
[TAB1 71-2]
Joseph and Jacob
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay, undoubtedly he would have not necessitated the Egyptian
shirt, or an announcer bringing him the glad tiding, or an ambassador
speaking to him.” Joseph, who is presented in the Qur’án not only as
a judicious, wise and pious man but also as a youth of such
extraordinary beauty as to appear as “a noble angel” [12:31], is
considered to be the symbol of absolute Beauty. Jacob is viewed as
the human soul in search of that Beauty and turned blind because of
the many tears it has shed in its remoteness from its Beloved.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The Egyptian shirt
This allusion to the Egyptian shirt may also be found in the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas: “Say: From My laws the sweet-smelling savour of My
garment can be smelled, and by their aid the standards of Victory will
be planted upon the highest peaks” [KA 20, π4]. This verse of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas is commented as follows:
This is an allusion to the story of Joseph in the Qur’án and
the Old Testament, in which Joseph’s garment, brought by his
brothers to Jacob, their father, enabled Jacob to identify his
beloved long-lost son. The metaphor of the fragrant
“garment” is frequently used in the Bahá’í Writings to refer
to the recognition of the Manifestation of God and His
Revelation. [“Preface and Notes” 165 n1]
The Egypt of fidelity
Bahá’u’lláh mentions “the Egypt of fidelity (Mißr-i-vafá).” This
image also belongs to the overall image of the story of Joseph.
Interestingly, when Sufi poets refer to the story of Moses, Egypt, the
reign of Pharaoh, the great oppressor of Moses and the Jews, mostly
denotes materialism, the prison of the self and passions. This
demonstrate the great fluidity of mystic symbolism, which defies the
strict rules of the human mind.
The north of the Spirit (shimál-i-rú˙)
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “On the contrary, he would have perceived the
pure and sanctified breezes from the north (shimál) of the Spirit and
he would have dwelt in perfect union with the Beloved.” The word
shimál means both north and left. But when it means “left” it has a
negative connotation, as in Koran 56:9, where it denotes the damned
souls, as opposed to the right denoting the blessed ones. In this case
the locution shimál-i-rú˙ is mentioned, that could be rendered as “the
north of the Spirit.” The French Iranist Henry Corbin (1903-1978)
writes about shimál as north what follows:
Now one of the leitmotiv of Iranian Sufi literature is the
“Quest for the Orient,” but this is a Quest for an Orient

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
which, as we are forewarned (if we do not already realize), is
not — and cannot be — situated on our geographical maps.
This Orient is not comprised in any of the seven climes
(keshvar); it is in fact the eighth clime. And the direction in
which we must seek this “eighth clime” is not on the
horizontal but on the vertical. This suprasensory, mystical
Orient, the place of the Origin and of the Return, object of
the eternal Quest, is at the heavenly pole; it is the Pole, at the
extreme north, so far off that it is the threshold of the
dimension “beyond.” That is why it is only revealed to a
definite mode of presence in the world, and can be revealed
only through this mode of presence. There are other modes to
which it will never be revealed. It is precisely this mode of
presence that characterizes the mode of being of the Sufi, but
also, through his person, the mode of being of the entire
spiritual family to which Sufism — and especially Iranian
Sufism — belongs. The Orient sought by the mystic, the
Orient that cannot be located on our maps, is in the direction
of the north, beyond the north. Only an ascensional progress
can lead toward this cosmic north chosen as a point of
orientation. [Man of Light 2]
Corbin also points out that the north is “on the one hand... the
situs of the angel Sraoshah (who thus would correspond to the angel
Seraphiel); on the other hand this is the qualification given in Sufism
to the great shaykh of a period (even the shaykh of a Sufi community,
a taríqat, insofar as the latter is taken as the homologue of a
microcosm) and for this reason is considered in Shí’ite Sufism as
representing the hidden Imám” (ibid. 56). Óáfiẓ uses this metaphor in
the two following verses:
O (cool) breeze of the north! the breeze of good news, thou
art,
That, us, at union’s time, reacheth. [Díván 621, no. 360, v.1]
The breeze of love’s perfume, I perceived; and, expectant
of the flashing of the lightning of union, became:
O (cool) breeze of the north! come: for, for the perfume of
thy body, I die! [Díván 626, no.364, v.1]

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The joy of the Divine Presence (Shawq-i-laqá)
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “[Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay...] he would have tasted the joy of the Divine Presence and
the flavor of eternity.” Bahá’u’lláh Himself explains the spiritual
meaning of the concept of the Divine Presence in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
“by ‘attainment unto the divine Presence’ is meant attainment unto
the presence of His Beauty in the person of His Manifestation” [KI
170, π182].
The eternal life
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “[Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay...] he would have obtained the eternal life...” This concept
also is explained in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán: “whosoever, and in whatever
Dispensation, hath recognized and attained unto the presence of
these glorious, these resplendent and most excellent Luminaries, hath
verily attained unto the ‘Presence of God’ Himself, and entered the
city of eternal and immortal life” [KI 142, π151].
Resurrection
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “[Likewise, should the Jacob of love have
cleansed the essence of his heart and soul from the foulness of water
and clay...] he would have entered into the immortal Paradise after
the spiritual resurrection.” Resurrection can be seen in two different
perspectives, personal and eschatological. As to the personal
perspective, the key to read this metaphor is in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
Such things have come to pass in the days of every
Manifestation of God. Even as Jesus said: “Ye must be born
again” [1 John 3:7]. Again He saith: “Except a man be born of
water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of
God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which
is born of the Spirit is spirit” [2 John 3:5-6]. The purport of
these words is that whosoever in every dispensation is born
of the Spirit and is quickened by the breath of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Manifestation of Holiness, he verily is of those that have
attained unto “life” and “resurrection” and have entered into
the “paradise” of the love of God. And whosoever is not of
them, is condemned to “death” and “deprivation,” to the
“fire” of unbelief, and to the “wrath” of God. In all the
scriptures, the books and chronicles, the sentence of death,
of fire, of blindness, of want of understanding and hearing,
hath been pronounced against those whose lips have tasted
not the ethereal cup of true knowledge, and whose hearts
have been deprived of the grace of the holy Spirit in their
day. Even as it hath been previously recorded: “Hearts have
they with which they understand not.” [Koran 7:178]. [KI 118-9,
π125]
In this case it seems that resurrection is intended in its personal
perspective.
“Everything will perish except His own Face (kullu
shay‘in hálika illa vajhahu)” [28:88, Yusuf Ali]
Yusuf Ali comments upon this verse as follows: “This sums up the
lesson of the whole Surah. The only Eternal Reality is Allah. His
‘Face’ or Self, Personality or Being is what we should seek, knowing
that it is the only enduring thing of which we can have any
conception. The whole phenomenal world is subject to flux and
change and will pass away, but He will endure forever” [The Holy
Quran 1027 n3421]. This Koranic verse appears in a verse by Rúmí in
the following context:
I died to the inorganic state and became endowed with
growth, and (then) I died to (vegetable) growth and
attained to the animal.
I died from animality and became Adam (man): why, then,
should I fear? When have I become less by dying?
At the next remove I shall die to man, that I may soar and
lift up my head amongst the angels;
And I must escape even from (the state of) the angel:
everything is perishing except His Face.
Once more I shall be sacrificed and die to the angel: I shall
become that which enters not into the imagination.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Then I shall become non-existence: non-existence saith to
me, (in tones loud) as an organ, Verily, unto Him
shall we return.
Know death to be (the thing signified by) what the
(Mohammedan) community are agreed upon, namely,
that the Water of Life is hidden in the (Land of)
Darkness.
Grow from this river-bank, like the water-lily, greedy and
craving for death as the sufferer from dropsy.
The water is death to him, and (yet) he is seeking the water
and drinking it — and God best knoweth the right
course. [Mathnaví 3:3901-9]
Human beings are here described in their ascending progress from the
mineral world to the station of the angles, and then to their
annihilation in their return to God.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote a Tablet in which He explained several
meanings of the word “face (vajh)”:
The word “face” (vajh) hath many meanings, among which
there is submissiveness to the Will of God (ri∂á), as God,
exalted be He, says: “Seeking His Face” [Koran 6:52], and also:
“We feed you for the sake of God alone” [Koran 76:9], and
moreover His good-pleasure (ri∂á). And the face also means
the Essence (dhát). God, exalted be He, says: “Everything ...
will perish except His own Face” [Koran 28:88]. And the face
(vajh) also means the unveiling (jilwat). God, exalted be He,
says: “whithersoever ye turn, there is the Presence of God”
[Koran 2:115]. And the face (vajh) hath various interpretations
and allusions, beside what hath been said. However, due to
lack of time, it hath been chosen not to expatiate the subject.
On the ground of all this, submission (taslím) of the face is
one thing of the special virtues of the righteous and of the
greatest gifts of the free. Whosoever is so aided is graciously
favored with absolute faith in the highest level of certitude
and assurance. [Makátíb 1:396, provisional translation by the
authors]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Uways and the camel
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
One ought to perceive the perfume of the Beloved from
Uways’ camel hair. As the Mathnaví’s author says:
The perfume of the Beloved exaleth from the camel
hair.
This camel is of the herd of that pearl who is Lord
Uways.
Uwaysu’l-Qaraní
is
“a
legendary
or
semi-legendary
younger
contemporary of Mu˙ammad said to have been killed at the battle of
Ṣiffín in 37/657, fighting on the side of ‘Alí ... [The legend says that]
Mu˙ammad and Uways corresponded by telepathy” [Bosworth, ”Uways
al-Ḳaraní”]. The morning breeze, according to the Tradition, brought
to Muhammad the scent of the holiness of Uways al-Qaraní who lived
in Yemen.
According to Nurbakhsh, the camel “is said to represent humanity
(ensániyat)” [4:153].
Breezes, scents and the Yemen
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “However, the musky fragrance of the Beloved
and the breezes of the Merciful have ceased to waft from the Yemen
of the Friend.” In the Sufi language breezes and winds have positive
connotations. The breeze, “nasím,” is often described as a messenger
of love, because at dawn it wafts the scent of the rose, the traditional
metaphor of the Beloved, or the musk scent of the Friend. Breezes
and winds are often associated with the idea of scent, a concept
which has many connotations in the Sufi world. Among them, as in
the Western world, a spiritual person may be described as a person in
the odor of sanctity. In this case the Tabled alludes to the above
mentioned legend of Uways. Yemen, the southern region of the
Arabic Peninsula, is here mentioned because it was the place where
Uways lived.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
The pearl and the shell
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Yeah, the casket of the white pearl (lú-lú-i-
bay∂á) is concealed within the sea shell (ßadaf), inasmuch as the
untouched pearl, which bestows perfect power upon the inner powers
of the heart and adds the light of vision to intelligence, is more
acceptable and agreeable.” According to Nurbakhsh the symbol of the
pearl refers to the perfect Man. Ebn ‘Arabi refers to it as the “white
pearl” [4:240]. As to the shell, according to Nurbakhsh “it is said to
symbolize the form of the multiplicity of the existential names and
Attribute” [4:152]. As to the untouched pearls, they are reminiscent
of the Koranic image of the Óurís, that are “large-eyed ones with
modest refraining glances, fair like the sheltered egg” [37:48-9,
Rodwell], girls “with large dark eyes” [44:54, Rodwell], beautiful “like
jacynths and pearls” [55:58, Rodwell], “whom no man nor spirit hath
touched before” [55:56, Rodwell], given as brides to the believers in the
Heaven’s gardens of delight. Other meanings of this metaphor are
explained in the following words by Bahá’u’lláh: “How many the
húrís of inner meaning that are as yet concealed within the chambers
of divine wisdom! None hath yet approached them; — húrís, ‘whom
no man nor spirit hath touched before’” [KI 70-1, π78].
The arm of the Beloved
In the language of the Sufis the arm, bázú, “represents the Divine
Will (masheyat)” [Nurbakhsh 1:14]. The image is commonly used in
Persian mystical poems to describe strength and power. For example
Óáfiẓ writes:
O sky! Away from the purpose of king Manßúr,4 thy face
turn not
The keenness of his sword, behold: the power of his
arm, behold. [Díván 761, no. 456, v.8]
Bahá’u’lláh uses this image in this Tablet when He says: “Imagine
what will the power of the Friend’s arm do?”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The Phoenix of the West and the city of the soul
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “O dear one, thy Companion sayeth that one
ought to be purified from the defilement of imitation, so that the
Phoenix of the West may emerge from the Orient of the Beloved and
wing its flight into the sanctified atmosphere of the Spirit, that is the
city of the soul.” According to Nurbakhsh the Phoenix of the West
“is said to represent the Perfect Man, the wayfarer who is in Union,
and one who has gnosis of the Divine Essence” [4:148]. In this case we
also have the symbolism of the two opposed directions of the West
and the East. The West denotes occultation and the East theophany.
As to “the city of the soul (madíniy-i-ján),” this locution is
reminiscent of a sentence in the Seven Valleys, which says: “to this
evanescent One of the mystic ocean, this station is the first gate of
the heart’s citadel, that is, man’s first entrance to the city of the
heart” [SV 41].
The desert of the intellect and the “swoon”
Bahá’u’lláh writes: “The lovers of the desert of the intellect have
swooned away because of the call from the Unseen.” Nurbakhsh gives
us an interesting background to understand the symbol of the desert:
We know that to reach Mecca, one must pass through cities
and cross the desert. Sháh Ne‘matollah,5in the following
passage, has used the images of “city” and “desert” to
symbolize the nafs and its inclinations along the way of the
“Pilgrimage” to Reality:
“Love of women, property, status, food and drink, or
whatever tempts the nafs, stands like cities along the
way of the ‘Pilgrimage’ to Reality. Once these are
passed, the blood-thirsty desert lies ahead and must be
traversed for the sake of austerity, the caravan chief
being the Prophet. If one is remiss in following him, one
falls behind, and is destroyed by the nafs, which is like a
desert thief.” [3:112]

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
As to the “swoon,” the Persian locution “madhúsh shudand”
corresponds with the Arabic word “ßá’íqan.” Therefore this sentence
seems to be a reference to the story of Moses, and specifically to
Moses’s swoon when God showed Himself to Him on Mount Sinai
described in the Koran as follows: “And when God manifested
Himself to the mountain he turned it to dust! and Moses fell in a
swoon (ßá’íqan)” [Koran 7:139]. It is the annihilation of the human
qualities of the seeker in front of the Manifestation of God. Similar
ideas are explained by Bahá’u’lláh in the Four Valleys when He quotes
this verse by Saná’í:
Wouldst thou that the mind should not entrap thee?
Teach it the science of the love of God! [SV 52]
In other words, the mind can be deceitful. Only a mind that has
been educated and thus transformed through its perusal and
internalization of Scripture is a reliable source of knowledge.
The moldering bones (‘aẓm-i-ramím)
Bahá’u’lláh writes. “Such were the joy and the ecstasy and the
delight and the happiness, that the breath of the Holy Spirit hath
wafted from the moldering bones....” This image comes from the
Koran, which says. “Who ... shall give life to bones when they are
rotten?” [36:78, Rodwell]. Bahá’u’lláh draws from this verse an
attribute of God the “Fashioner of mouldering bones” [SLH 53, sec.
1, π118, Súriy-i-Haykal], and also “God, Who fashioneth the
crumbling and rotten bones” [GWB 243, sec. 115, Law˙-i-Dhabíh].
‘Izrá’íl, Gabriel (Rú˙u’l-Amín), and Isráfíl
Interestingly in the last part of the Tablet three angels are directly
or indirectly mentioned: ‘Izrá’íl, the angel of death, Gabriel, the angel
of revelation, and Isráfíl, the angel of life.
As to ‘Izrá’íl, of the one who is “purified from the defilement of
imitation” Bahá’u’lláh says: “‘Izrá’íl, the angel of death, will stand as
a servant at His door, ready to serve Him.” The Koran says: “Say:
The angel of death, who is charged with you, shall cause you to die;
then shall he be returned to your Lord” (32:11). The name of this

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
angel is, according to tradition, ‘Izrá’íl or Azrá’íl (the servant of
the Highest), in English Azrael. He may be compared to Ezrael, the
angel of divine wrath of the Christian apocrypha. Rúmí defines
him as “tyrannous and enraged” [Mathnaví 5:1571]. The tradition
describes Izrá’íl as an enormous angel who appears in a different
shape to believers and unbelievers. He appears to a dying believer
as a pleasant and reassuring vision, but to an infidel as the most
terrifying figure.
As to Gabriel, Bahá’u’lláh writes. “Such were the joy and the
ecstasy and the delight and the happiness, that the breath of the Holy
Spirit hath wafted from the moldering bones and the Spirit of Faith
hath winged its flight on the wings of success.” Shoghi Effendi
translates the locution Rú˙u’l-Amín [literally, the Trusted Spirit]
“Gabriel” [GWB 103, sec. 50], and “Spirit of God” [KI 114, π121].
Rúmí Writes: “Since the Name of Ahmad became (to the
Christians) an impregnable fortress, what then must be the Essence
of that trusted Spirit?” [1:738]. According to Nurbakhsh “The
trusted Spirit normally refers to Gabriel, although occasionally in
Rumi’s Mathnaví it may represent the Mo˙ammadan Spirit” [9:100].

As to Isráfíl, Bahá’u’lláh writes: “The Isráfíl of life wondereth
with which melody he could wake up these companions and
beseecheth that haply he may share their swoon (bí-húshí).” Israfíl,
whose etymology could be the same as Seraphim, corresponds to the
English Seraphiel. In the Muslim tradition he is the angel who in the
Day of Judgement will awake the dead “calling” them with his
trumpet. The Qur’án [54:6-8] calls him “the summoner (dá’í)”. Rúmí
describes him as the “life of the body,” whereas he describes Gabriel
as the “life of the inspired spirit” [Mathnaví 5:1566, 1565]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has reportedly said that the two angels ‘Izrá’íl and Isráfíl are symbols:
As by the will of God the power of composition exists, so,
also by will of God the power of decomposition exists.
These two are expressed in scripture by “Isráfíl” the angel
who gives life to men, and the Angel of Death who takes it
away. The first is the power of composition or attraction, the
other the power of decomposition. They are not angels. [qtd.
in Goodall and Goodall Cooper 43-4]

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
and God best knoweth the right course
(w’alláhua‘lambi’ß-ßawáb)
This statement is frequently used by Rúmí in his Mathnaví. It comes
from a Koranic verse which says: “The Day that the Spirit and the
angels will stand forth in ranks, none shall speak except any who is
permitted by (Allah) Most Gracious, and he will say what is right (aß-
ßawában)” [78:38, Yusuf Ali].
verily, unto Him shall we return [Rúmí, Mathnaví 3:3906,
Koran 2:156]
This Koranic verse is often used in the Bahá’í Writings, as for
example the Seven Valleys, The Four Valleys, and Javáhiru’l-Asrár. It
is an allusion to the so called “second birth,” that is, that process
whereby the human soul gradually detaches itself from the lower
world, and actualizes its God-given spiritual attributes.
The contents of the Tablet
It is not certainly easy to summarize the contents of a Tablet
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. He quotes an Islamic tradition which says:
“We speak one word, and by it we intend one and seventy meanings;
each one of these meanings we can explain” [KI 255, π283]. And thus
we will be satisfied with a very short review of this inspiring Text.
Bahá’u’lláh wishes that the most cherished desires of His addressee
may be fulfilled. However, He suggests that the highest aspiration of
a human heart, that is, the attainment unto His Holy Presence, will be
fulfilled, only if the soul will forget anything else but its Lord. This
overall concept is conveyed, in a language enriched by poetical
images and quotations, through six different explanations.
First. The first quotation — ”Last night the shaikh went all about the
city, lamp in hand crying, ‘I am weary of beast and devil, a man is my
desire’” [Rúmí, Mystical Poems 1:46, no. 51, v.14] — is in itself, as it often
is the case with mystic writings, an epitome of the whole Tablet. The
shaykh is tired to meet with people who may be compared to “beast
and devil,” he wants to finally find a real human being. And
Bahá’u’lláh wrote later in a Tablet: “Lofty is the station of man, were

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
he to hold fast to righteousness and truth and to remain firm and
steadfast in the Cause. In the eyes of the All-Merciful a true man
appeareth even as a firmament; its sun and moon are his sight and
hearing, and his shining and resplendent character its stars. His is the
loftiest station, and his influence educateth the world of being” [TB
219, Kitáb-i-Ahd]. Therefore the whole Tablet is about the quest for a
man who has attained unto his divinely appointed lofty station.
Second. The second quotation emphasizes the importance of
detachment in two different perspectives:
Never the covetous heart shall come to the stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose [SV 60].
With that rose bud no one sleeps with a shirt.
One cannot advance in the path of oneness with two
qiblas,
Either one will please the Beloved, or will consent to
one’s passions. [Saná’í, Díván [Furúzánfar] 253]
The first verse recommends detachment through the language of
erotic-mystical poetry: the closest intimacy with the Beloved requires
that the lover takes off even his shirt. Soon after the Tablet suggests
that the most important detachment is that from oneself, here
described as a veil: “Óáfiẓ! thou thyself art thy own veil. From the
midst, arise” [Óáfiẓ, Díván 534, 308:9]. The second verse uses the
language of the ascetic. The ascetic cannot have two qiblihs.
Nurbakhsh explains that the qiblih “symbolizes the focus of attention
of the heart” [3:101]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said on the subject of the
attachment of the heart:
God has given man a heart and the heart must have some
attachment. We have proved that nothing is completely
worthy of our heart’s devotion save reality, for all else is
destined to perish. Therefore the heart is never at rest and
never finds real joy and happiness until it attaches itself to
the eternal. How foolish the bird that builds its nest in a tree
that may perish when it could build its nest in an ever-
verdant garden of paradise.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Man must attach himself to an infinite reality, so that his
glory, his joy, and his progress may be infinite. Only the
spirit is real; everything else is as shadow. [ADP 133]
Third. Later on the Tablet explains that if Jacob would have been
wholly purified from his attachment to the world, he would have
found Joseph even without the assistance of his shirt. It is a reference
to the story of Joseph, that has been explained above [Koran 12:93-96].
Fourth. The Tablet explains that only through detachment the
meaning of the Koranic verse 28:88, “Everything will perish except
His own Face,” will become apparent. In other words, only a
detached person is able to look at the world “with the eye of God”
[SV 17] and thus to behold “the brilliant rays of the divine sun shining
from the dawning-point of Essence alike on all created things, and
the lights of singleness reflected over all creation” [ibid.].
Fifth. A detached person recognizes the Perfect Man even in the smell
of the hair of the camel of Uwaysu’l-Qaraní. The Uways of the legend
worked as the guardian of the camels of his tribe and wore a rough
cloak made of camel hair [see Attár, Tadhkiratu’l-Awlya, Dhikr 2]. He was
an ascetic and lived in loneliness, detached from all the things of the
world. He was so poor and destitute, that no one would have thought
him to be a true saint. This reference to Uways is followed by a passage,
that is not easily comprehensible. It could allude to the fact that the
time was not yet ripe for Bahá’u’lláh to announce His Manifestation.
Sixth. Only a detached seeker will see the Phoenix winging its flight
and taking its place in the city of the soul. The Phoenix is the symbol
of the Manifestation of God. The city of the soul is the symbol of the
human heart. This image is reminiscent of one of the images of the
Seven Valleys:
Whensoever the light of Manifestation of the King of
Oneness settleth upon the throne of the heart and soul, His
shining becometh visible in every limb and member. At that
time the mystery of the famed tradition gleameth out of the
darkness: “A servant is drawn unto Me in prayer until I
answer him; and when I have answered him, I become the ear
wherewith he heareth....” For thus the Master of the house
hath appeared within His home, and all the pillars of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
dwelling are ashine with His light. And the action and effect
of the light are from the Light-Giver; so it is that all move
through Him and arise by His will. [SV 22]
In both cases the Manifestation of God takes His place in a human heart
that approaches Him in a detached attitude of prayer and adoration.
The Tablet ends with a difficult passage, which could allude to
Bahá’u’lláh’s high station, here described as that of One to Whom
angels promptly render service.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1. Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, Iran, n.d. Vol. 7. Iran: Mu‘assisiy-i-Millíy-i-Ma†bú‘át-i-Amrí, n.d.
———. “Recent Tablets from Abdul-Bahá to American Bahais,” Star of the
West 10.17 (19 January 1920): 316-20.
———. “Tablets received by American Bahais in 1919,” Star of the West
11.10 (8 September 1920): 159, 163-8.
———. “Tablets revealed by Abdul-Bahá in the winter of 1916-17, but just
received in America,” Star of the West 9.17 (19 January 1919): 197-9.
———. “Tablets to Bahais in America received in 1919 and 1920,” Star of
the West, vol. 11, no. 18 (7 February 1921), pp. 306-8.
‘Attár, Faridu’d-Dín. Tadhkirat al-Awliyá, available at
http://ganjoor.net/attar/tazkerat-ol-ouliya/ (accessed 10 November
2016).
Bahá’u’lláh. Majmú‘iy-i-Áthár-Qalam-i-A‘lá [Collected Letters of
Bahá’u’lláh], vol. 36, Teheran: Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA)
Private Printing, 1977.
Bausani, Alessandro. “Ghazal. ii. In Persian literature,” in
Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Blomfield, Lady (Sara Louise). The Chosen Highway. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1940. RP Oxford: George Ronald, 2007.
Bosworth, Clifford Edmund. ‘Uways al-Ḳaraní’, in Encyclopaedia of
Islam.
Browne, Edward G. (Ed.)A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the
Episode of the Báb. Amsterdam: Philo Press, 1975.
Corbin, Henry. The Man of Light in Iranian Sufism, Omega Publications,
New Lebanion, New York, 1971.

Ancient Poems as a Means of Revelation
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Goodall, Helen S.; Goodall Cooper, Ella. Daily Lessons Received at
‘Akká, January 1908. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
Óáfiẓ, Shams ad-Dín. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H. Wilberforce
Clarke. Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997. Available at
http://www.archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/
thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt (accessed 16 September 2017).
———. Díván-i-ash‘ár. Available at http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&
mod=classicpoems&obj=poet&id=20 (accessed 16 September 2017).
Lewis, Franklin D. “A Short Poem by ‘Darvísh’ Muhammad, Bahá’u’lláh,
Saqí az ghayb-ibaqá burqa‘ bar afkanazidhár. An Introduction and
Three Versions of Provisional English Translations,” in Lights of
‘Irfán, vol. 2, pp. 83-91.
Mázandarání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il. Asráru’l-Athar. 5 vols. Tehran:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 124–129 BE/ 1968–1973.
Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam (Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandi). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s
Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated by
Shoghi Effendi. New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1932.
Nurbakhsh, Javad. Sufi Symbolism: The Nurbakhsh Encyclopedia of Sufi
Terminology (Farhang-e Nurbakhsh), vol. 16. London: Khaniqahi-
Nimatullah Publications, 1986-2004.
“Preface and Notes,” in Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. xx-ix, 167-249.
Radmihr, Faridud Din. Samávát-i-Sulúk [The heavens of the path]: Sharhí
bar ‘ibárát, ishárát, kalimát, ahádíth, ash‘árvaáyát Mubárakih
mundarijdar Chihár Vádí. Unpublished.
Rafati, Vahid. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘árdar Áthár-i-Bahá’í, Má’akhidh-i-
Ash‘ár-i-Fársí (Sources of Persian Poetry in the Bahá’í Writings), Alif-
Thih. Vol. 2. Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in
Persian, 1995.
———. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘árdar Áthár-i-Bahá’í. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘ár-i-Fársí
(Sources of Persian Poetry in the Bahá’í Writings), Jím-Zá. Vol. 3.
Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 2000.
———. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘árdar Áthár-i-Bahá’í. Má’akhidh-i-Ash‘ár-i-Fársí
(Sources of Persian Poetry in the Bahá’í Writings), Zhih-Gaf. Vol. 4.
Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 2004.
———. Yádnámih-yi Mißbá˙-i Munír. Hofheim: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
2006.
RíRá. Kitábkhániy-i-Ázád-i-Fársí. RíRá [RiRa] is the Free Persian Digital
Library, providing access to Persian literature in public domain or
explicitly authorized for public use. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/ (accessed 16 September 2017).

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Rúmí, Jalálú’d-Dín. The Mathnawí of Jalálu’dín Rúmí, edited from the
oldest manuscripts available: with critical notes, translation and
commentary by Reynold A. Nicholson ..., vols. 2, 4, 6. Warminster,
Wiltshire: Trustees of the E.J.W. Gibb Memorial Series, 1926.
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 1: First Selection, Poems 1-200 translated
from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Chicago and London:
University of Chicago Press, 1968.
———. Selected Poems from the Divani Shamsi Tabriz. Edited and
translated by Reynold A. Nicholson. London: Cambridge University
Press, 1898.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A
Phenomenological Approach to Islam. Albany, NY: State University of
New York Press, 1994.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary
Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met with in Persian
Literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.



NOTES
1 A verse very similar to this may be found in a ghazal by Mußlihu’d-Dín
Sa‘dí (ca. 1184–1291). See Rafati, Má’akhidh 4:81-4. It says: “Shíráz will
be thrown into a tumult by Thine upsetting and joyous gaze | I fear lest
this turmoil may inflame Shíráz (Shírázpur-ghawgháshud-ast az fitniy-i-
chashm-i-khushat | tars-am kiháshúbí ‘ajab bar ham zanad Shíráz-rá).”
2 Bahá’u’lláh, qtd. in Rafati, Yádnámih 296, provisional translation by Omid
Ghaemmaghami. The authors thank Mr. Ghaemmaghami for having given
his permission to use it in this paper.
3 We did not find this ghazal in the collections of Rúmí’s ghazals recorded
on the Internet.
4 A Muzafarrid king of Iran, who reigned between ca. 1391 and ca. 1393.
5 Sháh Ni‘matulláh Valí (1330-1431) was a Sufi master and poet.

The Mathnaví of Rú˙u’lláh, the
Martyr1,2
translated by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Fill up the wine-cup, O Cupbearer, to the brim;
By Thy liquor, set the Sinai of the heart on fire.
Hand me the goblet of the wine of Alast,3

That from the fumes of drunkenness I may be aroused.
I’ll rend veils, fancies and doubts;

I’ll fly towards the peaks of the Seventh Heaven.
I’ll go beyond the muddy snare of the flesh;

I’ll make for the chaste realm of the soul.
From the rose-garden of the spirit, I’ll inhale the scent of the Loved
One;
From the abode of the Beloved, I’ll come back like a breeze,
With soul-stirring scented breaths,

With blessed and cheerful glad-tidings.
I proclaim to my travelling companions: Hasten,
O my friends! The Day of the Covenant hath come!
Hasten, O lovers of the Face of the Beloved!

Turn your hearts to the abode of the Adored One!
O companions! Seize the moment!

Assist and help the Cause of God!
Strive, O friends, that this brilliant sun

may shine above all the regions of the earth!

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Struggle, that the signs of the almighty Lord
May be spread throughout this globe.
Make an effort, O my friends! The time to serve hath come!
It is now the day to earn bestowals! It is the hour of success!
Hoisting the flags of guidance, march

Towards the world, O lovers of Bahá,
That these intoxicated creatures may awaken

And move away from fancies and doubts,
And the light of God may enlighten their eyes,
And the thorns of their hearts may become roses.
The ancient Ruler hath thus decreed

For all the peoples, in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Whosoever will arise for the Cause of God,

The Lord of Creation will come to his rescue.
Whosoever will lay down his life in this age of God,

To him the Lord will turn His Face.
O Cupbearer! Kindly proffer the cup of Thy gifts,
That I may be cleansed from crimes and faults.
Even with my countless transgressions,

I hopefully expect the favor of my God.
Hail, O Cupbearer at the eternal banquet,

Graciously pour a wine drop on this dust,
That these patterns may be brightened by Thy bounty,
That we may be sacrificed for the One Beloved.
When shall I offer this life, O my Lord,

In Thy pathway in my love for Thy Face?
Happy the day, when in the field of love I shall tender
My life on the way of the Sovereign of love!
Blessed the hour, when on the gallows

The King of Glory I shall exalt!
O God! May soon come the day

When of this withered body I shall get rid;
When, blooming and happy for His Presence grace,
Towards the everlasting Heaven I shall direct my steps!

The Mathnaví of Rú˙u’lláh
I’m on fire in the desert of exclusion;

I burn in the flames of separation.
O King of life, lift up the veil hiding Thy Face,

That the skies may resplend with Thy light.
O Lord of the Testament! O King of the Covenant!
O Thou by Whose fire the Sinai of the Pledge hath been lit!
O Thou Whose name is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá! For Thee

The flags of Guidance have been unfurled:
Thou art the Dayspring of the Divine mysteries;

Thou art the Wellspring of the Divine signs.
O mighty King of Kings, as an Alif,4

Thou risest above the Cause of God,
In Thy servitude, submissive as a Bih,5

At the gate of the garden of the Lord of Bahá.
O Most Great Branch of the Tree of the Cause!

O Twig sprouted from the Ancient Essence!
Thou art the spring of God’s inspiration! Thou

Illuminest the eyes of the people of Bahá!
Bestow a drop of kindness on this puny bird,
Restless and impatient in his remoteness from Thee!
In this Day, O King of the Kingdom of the heart,
My breast burneth in its separation from Thee.
I’m ablaze, O my King, with the fire of exclusion,
In this wilderness of yearning and seclusion.
Set free this bird from the snare of anguish,

O King of grace and Sovereign of bounty!
Look not at my merits or worth,

Look at Thy grace, O bountiful Lord.6

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


NOTES
1 The Persian text is published in Afnan, “Ta∂mín Mathnaví Jináb-i-
Rú˙u’lláh Varqá” 225-226.
2 The translators thank Mrs. Faraneh Vargha-Khadem for having sent them
the text of the poem and encouraged them to translate it into English.
3 A reference to Koran 7:172. According to Koranic spiritual exegesis, this
verse alludes to a primal metahistorical event, when human souls enjoyed
a mysterious existence in God before time was created. In that station
before time, God put the question, “Am I not (Alast) your Lord?,” and
received from the souls the immediate and joyful answer: “Yes, we
testify.” In that moment humankind undersigned, so to say, an eternal
Covenant with its Lord, Whom it promised to recognize however and
wherever He would manifest Himself, ready to accept the consequences
of any eventual disloyalty.
4 Alif is the first letter of the Persian alphabet and it has the form of a
vertical straight line |.
5 Bih is the second letter of the Persian alphabet and it has the form of an
horizontal curved line ﺐ .
6 This verse is by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, see Majmú’ih 13:411-2, verse 7.

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, the
Martyr: A Few Notes on Its Historical
Context and Poetical Content
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Abstract
A tentative translation of the Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, the
martyr, is presented [above]. It is accompanied by a concise
commentary of the content of his poem. After a few words on the
mathnaví in Persian literature, the most important images presented
in the poem are briefly explained: the motif of the cup-bearer and the
cup, springtime motifs, love motifs. The poem is a hymn of love to
the Blessed Beauty. However, in the final 10 verses after verse 31 the
poet turns to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and it closes his eulogy with a
quotation of a verse from one of the Master’s poems (Ay Khudáy-
i-Pur-‘A†áy-i-Dhu’l-Manán), a rhetorical device called Ta∂mín.
While describing the lives and martyrdom of Mírzá ‘Alí-
Muhammad Varqá and of his son Rú˙u’lláh, Adib Taherzadeh wrote:
“Truly, Rú˙u’lláh was no ordinary child. He was an inspired being
and acted as a spiritual giant. At a young age he wrote beautiful
poetry which clearly demonstrates how deep was his love for
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, how vast his knowledge of the Faith
and how profound his understanding of the real purpose of life”
[Revelation 4:60]. These qualities clearly emerge from the verses of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
mathnaví composed by this young hero, whose first English
translation is being presented in this paper.
The mathnaví in Persian literature
Edward G. Browne (1862–1926), the renowned British Orientalist,
defines the mathnaví ‘narrative poem in doublets’ [Literary History
1:18] and describes it as ‘the most ancient essentially Persian verse
form... [after the quatrain or rubá’í] where the rhyme changes in each
couplet’ [ibid. 473]. Mathnavís have been written in Persian, Arabic,
Turkish, Kurdish and Urdu cultures. Johannes Thomas Pieter de
Bruijn, Professor Emeritus of Persian at the University of Leiden,
explains that ‘the Persians call it mathnawí because each line requires
two rhyming letters... Etymologically, it is often explained as a nisba
adjective to the Arabic word mathná, “two by two”...’. The most
important features of the mathnaví may be summarized as follows:
Length: de Brujn explains that ‘In principle, there were no limits to
the length of a mathnawí... [with the exception of Firdawsí’s Sháh-
Námih1 and Rúmí’s Mathnawíy-ma’nawí], most of the better-known
poems fall within a range of 2,000 to 9,000 bayts, but the form was
also used for texts of a much lesser extent. Fragments of no more
than a few lines with the rhyme scheme of the mathnawí can be found
as inserted lines in prose works’.
Rhyme: In this poetic composition ‘each hemistich rhymes with its
companion and each verse has a new rhyme’ [Bausani, “Letteratura
neopersiana” 356], and thus its classic rhyme scheme is aa bb cc, etc.
‘Other poems were occasionally inserted into a mathnawí text, either
with or without the use of their specific rhyme scheme ... Prose and
poetry were in some cases used alternatively’ [de Bruijn].
Metre: It is ‘written in a restricted number of metres. These metres
always have eleven or, more rarely, ten syllables...’ [de Bruijn].
Narrative syntax: ‘The narrative syntax of almost all the Persian
masnavís remains essentially paratactic, like that of the language
[“Letteratura neopersiana” 365].
Contents: It ‘is used in extensive narratives and long stories which
cannot easily be treated of in poems with one specific rhyming

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
letter...’ [de Bruijn]. Its genres ‘are not restricted to the heroic, the
romantic and the didactic, the three usually associated with this verse
form. Panegyrics and satire, topical events, love and wine, and many
others subjects could also be dealt with in a mathnawí ... During the
later Middle Ages, new subjects were added to the répertoire of the
narrative mathnawí... At the same time, mystical poems continuing
the examples set by Saná’í, ‘A††ár and Djalál al-Dín Rúmí
proliferated’ [de Bruijn].
According to Bausani the mathnaví had lost its expressive power
in the last centuries. He wrote:
And thus, the masnaví also has arrived on the threshold of the
contemporary age offering, together with a number of naive
religious poem in “popular” style — usually despised ... —
mystic-symbolic poems, wholly inadequate to our modern
world as well as theoretical and didactic meditations which
the modern world conceives only as written in prose. This
makes us understand that in the contemporary Iran the
masnaví is condemned to a radical decline, perhaps more than
the other forms of traditional poetry. [ibid. 439]
However, the mathnaví we are presenting seems to contradict
Bausani’s judgment, since it is rich in inspiration and uses with great
mastery “the motifs, images and metaphors” of the ancient and
glorious Persian poems.
Moreover, the mathnaví seems to have been especially appreciated
by the Bábís and Bahá’ís. Franklin Lewis, an expert in Persian
Language and Literature, especially Rúmí, remarks in this regard:
There is... a mathnaví written in praise of Bahá’u’lláh
attributed to Táhirih. Whether this poem is indeed hers or
not, it is clear that the mathnaví was a form appreciated by
many of the Bábís and, later on, by Iranian Bahá’ís... Nabíl-i
Zarandí, author of the Dawn-Breakers, after completing his
pilgrimage to the House of the Báb in Shiraz as per
Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions in the Súriy-i Hajj, composed a
mathnaví describing the experience. Nabíl also composed
another mathnaví describing the history of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. Both of Nabíl’s mathnavís seem to derive their

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
inspiration from Bahá’u’lláh’s own Mathnavíy-i Mubárak.
[“Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i Mubárak” 113]
The language of Rú˙u’lláh Varqá’s mathnaví
Although mathnavís are not considered lyrical works, still the four
major themes of Persian lyrical poetry as described by Bausani, that is
“wine, love, springtime and mystics” [“Letteratura neopersiana” 176],
occupy a central position in this poem by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá.
Associated with springtime motifs are many nature tropes. Also
theological and scriptural motifs are widely used in this poem. Last
but not least, there also are didactic themes.
The cup-bearer
Immediately in verse 1 we find the figure of the cupbearer and the
cup. The cup-bearer also is mentioned in verse 19 and 21. This poem
has the form Sáqí-namih, often translated “The Book of the Cup-
Bearer”, whose main personage is a mysterious sáqí, who according to
many Iranists is “an initiator to the mysteries of wine and love”
[Saccone, “Prefazione” 216 n1]. A famous example is the Sáqí-namih by
Óáfiẓ, translated The Book of the Cup-bearer. William L.
Hanaway, Emeritus Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
(Persian) University of Pennsylvania remarks:
sáḳí — cup-bearer, the person charged with pouring wine...
Physical beauty was important in the choice of individuals to
be wine servers. Bayhaḳí [famous Persian historian of the
5th/11th century] describes festive occasions when the sáḳís,
whom he calls máhrúyán “moon-faced”, would appear
splendidly attired and attract the amorous glances of
courtiers. These characteristics of the sáḳí, sc. being a Turk,
military training, exceptional beauty, and closeness to the
ruler, help explain the image of the sáḳí as it developed in
poetry after the 5th/11th century. [“Sáḳí: In Persian Usage”]
This familiar personage of Persian mystic poetry has his origin in the
Koran and in the traditions. Carlo Saccone, an expert in and a
translator of Persian poetry into Italian, comprising the whole Díván

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
by Khájih Shamsu’d-Dín Mu˙ammad Óáfiẓ-i-Shírází (ca. 1318–1390),
writes that “the wine which he, incessantly invoked and implored,
pours into the cup of the lover/poet clearly reveals its sacred
imprinting, i.e., it is a transposition of the ‘mysterious’ wine which
the youthful cup-bearers of Muslim paradise offer to the blessed
spirits” [“Sensi e soprasensi” 44].
Bausani explains that the Sufis relate the cup-bearer to ‘the ancient
mystic legend wherefore at the beginning of the Divine Love, the
cup-bearer (sáqí), as God-the Beloved, poured the wine for God-the
Lover during forty successive dawns and thus he created the world’
[‘Letteratura neopersiana’ 162; see Religion in Iran 277]. Sufis also relate the
motifs of the cup-bearer, wine and drunkenness to the rúz-i-alast, the
metahystorical morning when human souls entered into the eternal
Covenant with their Creator, which is the basis of their life on earth
and of the development of human civilization [see HW Persian no. 19].
According to the German Orientalist Annemarie Schimmel (1922–
2003), the Sufis
saw this moment in poetical imagery as a spiritual banquet in
which the wine of Love was distributed to humanity so that
everyone received the share which he or she will have in this
life. Here, the imagery of wine is used not for the final goal
of the mystic’s unification with God and his being filled with
Him, but rather as the starting point of the flow of Divine
grace at the beginning of time. [Deciphering 109]
Finally, according to Saccone, the cup-bearer sometimes symbolizes
the Beloved himself, as
an initiator, i.e., he who ... initiates the poet ... into the
mysteries of wine and love for him [God]. [And the poet’s]
initiation ... is essentially a summon to folly, to disarm one’s
intellect and its analytic processes, because the lover will
attain unto the reunion with his friend ... only in the
condition of ‘sacred folly,’ fostered by his drunkenness.
[“Sensi e soprasensi” 49, 50]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Bahá’u’lláh mentions the Sáqí in at least three of His poems, Sáqí
az Ghayb-i-Baqá, Sáqí bi-dih ábí, and Sáqí bi-dih án jám [see Ishráq
Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání 4:176-211].
The cup
The image of the cup is associated with the image of the cup-
bearer. The symbolic meanings of the words denoting a “cup” have
been commented upon at length by many writers. Saná’í and ‘A††ár
see it as a symbol of the human heart, and Gnostic thinkers as the
Knowing Soul (nafs-i-dáná), that is a human soul which having been
purified has become crystal-clear. Óáfiẓ says that the cup is the
“intimate illuminating soul of the Friend.” “Cup” in Persian is also
called paymánih, a word resembling paymán, which means covenant.
Therefore the two concepts are often used together in a play on
words [see Bausani, Religion in Iran 262]. In the Muslim world, Covenant
especially means the Covenant between God and man. If man submits
to the laws of God, God in His turn will purify his soul, and will
enable him to grow spiritually. Cardinal Gianfranco Ravasi, an Italian
Catholic Biblicist, theologian, archaeologist and Hebraist explains the
meaning of the symbol of the cup in the Hebrew world:
Although the cup is a liturgical element (especially in Easter
Judaic and Eucharistic rites), it becomes a relevant symbol to
denote the destiny of a person, because of the idea that a cup
contains a certain amount of liquid. We thus have the cup of
salvation [Psalms 116:13] and especially that of the divine
judgment, the cup of fury [Isaiah 51:17-22], which also is a sign
of death ... [500 curiosità 47]
As has been said, Rú˙u’lláh mentions the Cupbearer in three
verses:
Fill up the wine-cup, O Cupbearer, to the brim;
By Thy liquor, set the Sinai of the heart on fire. [1]
O Cupbearer! Kindly proffer the cup of Thy gifts,
That I may be cleansed from crimes and faults. [19]
Hail, O Cupbearer at the eternal banquet,
Graciously pour a wine drop on this dust,

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
That these patterns may be brightened by Thy bounty,
That we may be sacrificed for the One Beloved. [20-1]
Who else is this Cupbearer, this heavenly Person, if not Bahá’u’lláh
Himself, the Beloved par excellence. And what else is His wine, if not
His soul-entrancing Word? Bahá’u’lláh kindles the fire of love in the
poet’s heart. And since this poet responds to His offer, He cleanses
his heart “from crimes and faults.” He prepares it to the highest
proof of love: offering his life on the path of service.
Springtime motifs
In our poem, the Anacreontic themes, strictly connected with
mystical themes, easily turn into springtime motifs. And the young
poet speaks of “the rose-garden of the spirit (gulshan-i-ján),” of “the
scent of the Loved One (búy-i-Dúst),” of a “breeze (násím),” and of
“soul-stirring scented breathes (mu’a††ar naf˙ih-háy-i-jánfazá).”
In the Bahá’í Writings springtime has mostly been associated to
the days of the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad from 22 April
to 3 May 1863:
The Divine Springtime is come, O Most Exalted Pen, for the
Festival of the All-Merciful is fast approaching. Bestir
thyself, and magnify, before the entire creation, the name of
God, and celebrate His praise, in such wise that all created
things may be regenerated and made new. Speak, and hold not
thy peace. The day star of blissfulness shineth above the
horizon of Our name, the Blissful, inasmuch as the kingdom
of the name of God hath been adorned with the ornament of
the name of thy Lord, the Creator of the heavens. Arise
before the nations of the earth, and arm thyself with the
power of this Most Great Name, and be not of those who
tarry. [GWB 27, sec. XIV, π1, Law˙-i-Ri∂ván]
Bahá’u’lláh also writes about springtime in other Tablets:
Seize the time, therefore, ere the glory of the divine
springtime hath spent itself, and the Bird of Eternity ceased
to warble its melody, that thy inner hearing may not be
deprived of hearkening unto its call. [KI 24, π23]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
It behoveth you to refresh and revive your souls through the
gracious favours which in this Divine, this soul-stirring
Springtime are being showered upon you. [TB 86, Law˙-i-Dunyá]
An evidence of His bonds with springtime also is present in a
prayer He wrote while He was confined in the citadel of ‘Akká:
Glory to Thee, O my God! The first stirrings of the spring of
Thy grace have appeared and clothed Thine earth with verdure.
The clouds of the heaven of Thy bounty have rained their rain
on this City within whose walls is imprisoned Him Whose
desire is the salvation of Thy creatures. Through it the soil of
this City hath been decked forth, and its trees clothed with
foliage, and its inhabitants gladdened. [PM 199, sec. 117, π1]
The image of springtime as the beginning of a new Dispensation is
a typical feature of the Writings and talks by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who,
while dealing with progressive revelation, described the advent of the
new Manifestation of God as a new springtime:
Soon the whole world, as in springtime, will change its garb.
The turning and falling of the autumn leaves is past; the
bleakness of the winter time is over. The new year hath
appeared and the spiritual springtime is at hand. The black
earth is becoming a verdant garden; the deserts and
mountains are teeming with red flowers; from the borders of
the wilderness the tall grasses are standing like advance guards
before the cypress and jessamine trees; while the birds are
singing among the rose branches like the angels in the highest
heavens, announcing the glad-tidings of the approach of that
spiritual spring, and the sweet music of their voices is causing
the real essence of all things to move and quiver. [TAB2 318-9]
Echoes of these words must have come to the ears of Rú˙u’lláh, who
implicitly relates these springtime motifs with the “Day of the
Covenant (Yawm-i-Míthaq).”
From the rose-garden of the spirit, I’ll inhale the scent of the
Loved One;
From the abode of the Beloved, I’ll come back like a
breeze,

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
With soul-stirring scented breaths,

With blessed and cheerful glad-tidings.
I proclaim to my travelling companions: Hasten,
O my friends! The Day of the Covenant hath come!
Love motifs
The whole poem is a hymn of love, not only for Bahá’u’lláh but
also for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The first part of the poem conveys the deep
love of the poet for the “Loved One (Dúst),” the “Beloved (Dúst)”
and the “Adored One (Dúst)”: he summons his readers to “assist and
help” His Cause, to teach His Faith, that it “may shine above all the
regions of the earth.” If they want to be worthy of such an honor,
they should “move away from fancies and doubts,” “the thorns of
their hearts” should become “roses;” they should be assured that “The
Lord of Creation will come to... [their] rescue.” But most of all they
should be “on fire in the desert of exclusion,” and “burn in the flames of
separation,” so that they may be ready to offer their lives on His path.
The end of the poem
From verse 31 the poet turns to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The special love
that Rú˙u’lláh had for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reflected the same love that
flourished in his father after an episode described by Adib
Taherzadeh as follows:
Once Bahá’u’lláh spoke to Varqá [Rú˙u’lláh’s father] about
the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and extolled His virtues and
heavenly qualities. He said that in this world of being there
was a phenomenon which He had referred to in some Tablets
as the ‘Most Great Elixir’. Any person who possessed this
power would be able to exert enormous influence in the
world through his work and could do anything he desired...
And now, look at the Master. Observe with what patience
and compassion He dealt with all types of people. He
possessed this power, therefore immeasurable was the extent
of the influence He would exert upon the world of humanity.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
When Varqá heard this, he was so filled with joy and
excitement that he fell prostrate at Bahá’u’lláh’s feet and
begged Him to make it possible for him and one of his sons
to lay down their lives in the path of the Master. Bahá’u’lláh
favoured him with His acceptance. When he returned to
Persia, Varqá wrote to Bahá’u’lláh and renewed his plea for
martyrdom, a plea to which He again favourably responded.
And... this happened; he was martyred during the Ministry of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. [Revelation 4:56-7]
Rú˙u’lláh describes ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His glory, erect “as an Alif,”
and in His utter submission to the Will of God, ‘submissive as a bih.”
This use of the Arabic alphabet is not uncommon in the verses of the
mystic Persian poets. For example Shamsu’d-Dín Óáfiẓ (ca. 1318–
1390) writes:
On my heart’s tablet is naught save the (straight) alif... of
the Friend’s stature:
What may I do? Me, recollection of other letter the teacher
(the murshid) gave not. [Díván 703, no. 416, v.8]
The verses addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are 10. And they end with a
ta∂mín,2 a quotation of a verse by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself:
Look not at my merits or worth,
Look at Thy grace, O bountiful Lord. [Majmú’ih 13:411-2, verse
7; provisional translation by the authors]
The whole poem may be inadequately rendered in English as
follows:
He is God.
O God of all graces and Lord of all bounties,
Who knowest my heart, my secrets, and my soul!
Every morning Thou art the Companion of my soul.
Thou knowest my anguish and my distress.
Fastened to Thy remembrance, this heart
Only Thy angst as a companion longs for.
Perish the heart which does not burn for Thee!

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
Be blinded the eye that does not cry for Thee!
O Almighty, in this darksome night,
in my heart Thy remembrance is a glowing lamp.
Upon my heart breathe the breath of life, by Thy bounty,
That non-existence, by Thy grace, into eternity may turn.
Look not at my merits or worth,
Look at Thy grace, O bountiful Lord.
Upon these broken-winged birds,
By Thy benevolence, new wings bestow.3


* * *
At the end of our perusal of this Mathnaví, we can but express our
astonishment and awe in front of this twelve-year-old boy, who
demonstrated through his verses and much more his behavior, that
not only he had preserved his heart as a mirror “upon which no dust
has fallen”, as that of a child, but that he also had acquired most of
“the divine perfections latent in the heart of man” [PUP 72, π2, 73, π4].
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 13. The
Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA), 132 BE. http://www.h-
net.org/ bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA013.pdf (accessed on 26 Nov. 2015).
Adhkáru’l-Muqarrabín. Teheran: Mu’assisiy-i-Ma†bu‘at-i-Amrí, 116 EB, 1947.
Afnan, Hasan. “Ta∂mín-i-Mathnavíy-i-Jináb-i-Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, Khúshih-ha-
í Az Kharman-i-Adab va Hunar,” in Proceedings of a Seminar on Varqá,
vol. 5 (Landegg Academy, Switzerland: Society for Persian Letters and
Arts, 1994) 225-226.
Bahá’í Studies Review. Association for Bahá’í Studies for English-speaking
Europe. London, 1991-.
Bausani, Alessandro. “La letteratura neopersiana,” in Pagliaro and
Bausani: La letteratura persiana, pp. 133-563.
———. Religion in Iran Religion in Iran. Translated by J.M. Marchesi.
New York: Bibliotheca Persica Press, 2000
Edward G. Browne. A Literary History of Persia. Bethesda: Maryland:
Iranbooks, 1997.
Bruijn, Johannes Thomas Pieter de. “Mathnáwí,” Encyclopaedia of Islam.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Óáfiẓ, Shamsu’d-Dín. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H. Wilberforce
Clarke. Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997. Available at
archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt
(accessed 16 September 2017).
———. [Hâfez] Il libro del coppiere, a cura di Carlo Saccone. Milan: Luni
editrice, 1998.
Hanaway, William L. “Sáḳí: In Persian Usage.” Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Ishráq Khávarí, Abdu’l-Óamíd. Má’iday-i-Ásmání. A compilation of Bahá’í
Writings. 9 vols. Teheran: Mu’assisa Millí Ma†bu‘át Amrí, 129 BE (1972).
Lewis, Franklin. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i Mubárak: introduction and
provisional translation,” in Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 9 (1999/2000)
Pagliaro, Antonino and Alessandro Bausani. La letteratura Persiana. Firenze:
Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
Ravasi, Gianfranco. 500 curiosità della fede. Milan: Mondadori, 2009
Saccone, Carlo. “Prefazione, introduzione, nota alla traduzione, note,
bibliografia orientativa e appendice», in Hâfez, Il libro del coppiere, pp.
7-66, 216-412.
———. “Sensi e soprasensi nei fragmenta di Hâfez, ovvero introduzione a
uno ‘stilnovista’ persiano.” In Hâfez, Il libro del Coppiere, pp. 14-66.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A Phenomenological
Approach to Islam. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary
Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met with in Persian
Literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1974–1987.



NOTES
1 Abu’l-Qasim Firdawsi Tusi (c. 940–1020), the greatest Persian epic poet.
2 Ta∂mín: “inserting the verses of another in one’s own poem” (Steingass
306), that is quoting a “very famous verse of another poet” (Bausani,
“Letteratura neopersiana,” p. 178).
3 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Majmú‘ih 13:208; see also Adhkáru’l-Muqarrabín 2:135. A
provisional translation by Mardani and Savi.

The Mathnaví of Rú˙u’lláh, the
Martyr1,2
translated by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Fill up the wine-cup, O Cupbearer, to the brim;
By Thy liquor, set the Sinai of the heart on fire.
Hand me the goblet of the wine of Alast,3

That from the fumes of drunkenness I may be aroused.
I’ll rend veils, fancies and doubts;

I’ll fly towards the peaks of the Seventh Heaven.
I’ll go beyond the muddy snare of the flesh;

I’ll make for the chaste realm of the soul.
From the rose-garden of the spirit, I’ll inhale the scent of the Loved
One;
From the abode of the Beloved, I’ll come back like a breeze,
With soul-stirring scented breaths,

With blessed and cheerful glad-tidings.
I proclaim to my travelling companions: Hasten,
O my friends! The Day of the Covenant hath come!
Hasten, O lovers of the Face of the Beloved!

Turn your hearts to the abode of the Adored One!
O companions! Seize the moment!

Assist and help the Cause of God!
Strive, O friends, that this brilliant sun

may shine above all the regions of the earth!

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Struggle, that the signs of the almighty Lord
May be spread throughout this globe.
Make an effort, O my friends! The time to serve hath come!
It is now the day to earn bestowals! It is the hour of success!
Hoisting the flags of guidance, march

Towards the world, O lovers of Bahá,
That these intoxicated creatures may awaken

And move away from fancies and doubts,
And the light of God may enlighten their eyes,
And the thorns of their hearts may become roses.
The ancient Ruler hath thus decreed

For all the peoples, in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Whosoever will arise for the Cause of God,

The Lord of Creation will come to his rescue.
Whosoever will lay down his life in this age of God,

To him the Lord will turn His Face.
O Cupbearer! Kindly proffer the cup of Thy gifts,
That I may be cleansed from crimes and faults.
Even with my countless transgressions,

I hopefully expect the favor of my God.
Hail, O Cupbearer at the eternal banquet,

Graciously pour a wine drop on this dust,
That these patterns may be brightened by Thy bounty,
That we may be sacrificed for the One Beloved.
When shall I offer this life, O my Lord,

In Thy pathway in my love for Thy Face?
Happy the day, when in the field of love I shall tender
My life on the way of the Sovereign of love!
Blessed the hour, when on the gallows

The King of Glory I shall exalt!
O God! May soon come the day

When of this withered body I shall get rid;
When, blooming and happy for His Presence grace,
Towards the everlasting Heaven I shall direct my steps!

The Mathnaví of Rú˙u’lláh
I’m on fire in the desert of exclusion;

I burn in the flames of separation.
O King of life, lift up the veil hiding Thy Face,

That the skies may resplend with Thy light.
O Lord of the Testament! O King of the Covenant!
O Thou by Whose fire the Sinai of the Pledge hath been lit!
O Thou Whose name is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá! For Thee

The flags of Guidance have been unfurled:
Thou art the Dayspring of the Divine mysteries;

Thou art the Wellspring of the Divine signs.
O mighty King of Kings, as an Alif,4

Thou risest above the Cause of God,
In Thy servitude, submissive as a Bih,5

At the gate of the garden of the Lord of Bahá.
O Most Great Branch of the Tree of the Cause!

O Twig sprouted from the Ancient Essence!
Thou art the spring of God’s inspiration! Thou

Illuminest the eyes of the people of Bahá!
Bestow a drop of kindness on this puny bird,
Restless and impatient in his remoteness from Thee!
In this Day, O King of the Kingdom of the heart,
My breast burneth in its separation from Thee.
I’m ablaze, O my King, with the fire of exclusion,
In this wilderness of yearning and seclusion.
Set free this bird from the snare of anguish,

O King of grace and Sovereign of bounty!
Look not at my merits or worth,

Look at Thy grace, O bountiful Lord.6

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


NOTES
1 The Persian text is published in Afnan, “Ta∂mín Mathnaví Jináb-i-
Rú˙u’lláh Varqá” 225-226.
2 The translators thank Mrs. Faraneh Vargha-Khadem for having sent them
the text of the poem and encouraged them to translate it into English.
3 A reference to Koran 7:172. According to Koranic spiritual exegesis, this
verse alludes to a primal metahistorical event, when human souls enjoyed
a mysterious existence in God before time was created. In that station
before time, God put the question, “Am I not (Alast) your Lord?,” and
received from the souls the immediate and joyful answer: “Yes, we
testify.” In that moment humankind undersigned, so to say, an eternal
Covenant with its Lord, Whom it promised to recognize however and
wherever He would manifest Himself, ready to accept the consequences
of any eventual disloyalty.
4 Alif is the first letter of the Persian alphabet and it has the form of a
vertical straight line |.
5 Bih is the second letter of the Persian alphabet and it has the form of an
horizontal curved line ﺐ .
6 This verse is by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, see Majmú’ih 13:411-2, verse 7.

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, the
Martyr: A Few Notes on Its Historical
Context and Poetical Content
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Abstract
A tentative translation of the Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, the
martyr, is presented [above]. It is accompanied by a concise
commentary of the content of his poem. After a few words on the
mathnaví in Persian literature, the most important images presented
in the poem are briefly explained: the motif of the cup-bearer and the
cup, springtime motifs, love motifs. The poem is a hymn of love to
the Blessed Beauty. However, in the final 10 verses after verse 31 the
poet turns to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and it closes his eulogy with a
quotation of a verse from one of the Master’s poems (Ay Khudáy-
i-Pur-‘A†áy-i-Dhu’l-Manán), a rhetorical device called Ta∂mín.
While describing the lives and martyrdom of Mírzá ‘Alí-
Muhammad Varqá and of his son Rú˙u’lláh, Adib Taherzadeh wrote:
“Truly, Rú˙u’lláh was no ordinary child. He was an inspired being
and acted as a spiritual giant. At a young age he wrote beautiful
poetry which clearly demonstrates how deep was his love for
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, how vast his knowledge of the Faith
and how profound his understanding of the real purpose of life”
[Revelation 4:60]. These qualities clearly emerge from the verses of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
mathnaví composed by this young hero, whose first English
translation is being presented in this paper.
The mathnaví in Persian literature
Edward G. Browne (1862–1926), the renowned British Orientalist,
defines the mathnaví ‘narrative poem in doublets’ [Literary History
1:18] and describes it as ‘the most ancient essentially Persian verse
form... [after the quatrain or rubá’í] where the rhyme changes in each
couplet’ [ibid. 473]. Mathnavís have been written in Persian, Arabic,
Turkish, Kurdish and Urdu cultures. Johannes Thomas Pieter de
Bruijn, Professor Emeritus of Persian at the University of Leiden,
explains that ‘the Persians call it mathnawí because each line requires
two rhyming letters... Etymologically, it is often explained as a nisba
adjective to the Arabic word mathná, “two by two”...’. The most
important features of the mathnaví may be summarized as follows:
Length: de Brujn explains that ‘In principle, there were no limits to
the length of a mathnawí... [with the exception of Firdawsí’s Sháh-
Námih1 and Rúmí’s Mathnawíy-ma’nawí], most of the better-known
poems fall within a range of 2,000 to 9,000 bayts, but the form was
also used for texts of a much lesser extent. Fragments of no more
than a few lines with the rhyme scheme of the mathnawí can be found
as inserted lines in prose works’.
Rhyme: In this poetic composition ‘each hemistich rhymes with its
companion and each verse has a new rhyme’ [Bausani, “Letteratura
neopersiana” 356], and thus its classic rhyme scheme is aa bb cc, etc.
‘Other poems were occasionally inserted into a mathnawí text, either
with or without the use of their specific rhyme scheme ... Prose and
poetry were in some cases used alternatively’ [de Bruijn].
Metre: It is ‘written in a restricted number of metres. These metres
always have eleven or, more rarely, ten syllables...’ [de Bruijn].
Narrative syntax: ‘The narrative syntax of almost all the Persian
masnavís remains essentially paratactic, like that of the language
[“Letteratura neopersiana” 365].
Contents: It ‘is used in extensive narratives and long stories which
cannot easily be treated of in poems with one specific rhyming

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
letter...’ [de Bruijn]. Its genres ‘are not restricted to the heroic, the
romantic and the didactic, the three usually associated with this verse
form. Panegyrics and satire, topical events, love and wine, and many
others subjects could also be dealt with in a mathnawí ... During the
later Middle Ages, new subjects were added to the répertoire of the
narrative mathnawí... At the same time, mystical poems continuing
the examples set by Saná’í, ‘A††ár and Djalál al-Dín Rúmí
proliferated’ [de Bruijn].
According to Bausani the mathnaví had lost its expressive power
in the last centuries. He wrote:
And thus, the masnaví also has arrived on the threshold of the
contemporary age offering, together with a number of naive
religious poem in “popular” style — usually despised ... —
mystic-symbolic poems, wholly inadequate to our modern
world as well as theoretical and didactic meditations which
the modern world conceives only as written in prose. This
makes us understand that in the contemporary Iran the
masnaví is condemned to a radical decline, perhaps more than
the other forms of traditional poetry. [ibid. 439]
However, the mathnaví we are presenting seems to contradict
Bausani’s judgment, since it is rich in inspiration and uses with great
mastery “the motifs, images and metaphors” of the ancient and
glorious Persian poems.
Moreover, the mathnaví seems to have been especially appreciated
by the Bábís and Bahá’ís. Franklin Lewis, an expert in Persian
Language and Literature, especially Rúmí, remarks in this regard:
There is... a mathnaví written in praise of Bahá’u’lláh
attributed to Táhirih. Whether this poem is indeed hers or
not, it is clear that the mathnaví was a form appreciated by
many of the Bábís and, later on, by Iranian Bahá’ís... Nabíl-i
Zarandí, author of the Dawn-Breakers, after completing his
pilgrimage to the House of the Báb in Shiraz as per
Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions in the Súriy-i Hajj, composed a
mathnaví describing the experience. Nabíl also composed
another mathnaví describing the history of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. Both of Nabíl’s mathnavís seem to derive their

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
inspiration from Bahá’u’lláh’s own Mathnavíy-i Mubárak.
[“Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i Mubárak” 113]
The language of Rú˙u’lláh Varqá’s mathnaví
Although mathnavís are not considered lyrical works, still the four
major themes of Persian lyrical poetry as described by Bausani, that is
“wine, love, springtime and mystics” [“Letteratura neopersiana” 176],
occupy a central position in this poem by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá.
Associated with springtime motifs are many nature tropes. Also
theological and scriptural motifs are widely used in this poem. Last
but not least, there also are didactic themes.
The cup-bearer
Immediately in verse 1 we find the figure of the cupbearer and the
cup. The cup-bearer also is mentioned in verse 19 and 21. This poem
has the form Sáqí-namih, often translated “The Book of the Cup-
Bearer”, whose main personage is a mysterious sáqí, who according to
many Iranists is “an initiator to the mysteries of wine and love”
[Saccone, “Prefazione” 216 n1]. A famous example is the Sáqí-namih by
Óáfiẓ, translated The Book of the Cup-bearer. William L.
Hanaway, Emeritus Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
(Persian) University of Pennsylvania remarks:
sáḳí — cup-bearer, the person charged with pouring wine...
Physical beauty was important in the choice of individuals to
be wine servers. Bayhaḳí [famous Persian historian of the
5th/11th century] describes festive occasions when the sáḳís,
whom he calls máhrúyán “moon-faced”, would appear
splendidly attired and attract the amorous glances of
courtiers. These characteristics of the sáḳí, sc. being a Turk,
military training, exceptional beauty, and closeness to the
ruler, help explain the image of the sáḳí as it developed in
poetry after the 5th/11th century. [“Sáḳí: In Persian Usage”]
This familiar personage of Persian mystic poetry has his origin in the
Koran and in the traditions. Carlo Saccone, an expert in and a
translator of Persian poetry into Italian, comprising the whole Díván

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
by Khájih Shamsu’d-Dín Mu˙ammad Óáfiẓ-i-Shírází (ca. 1318–1390),
writes that “the wine which he, incessantly invoked and implored,
pours into the cup of the lover/poet clearly reveals its sacred
imprinting, i.e., it is a transposition of the ‘mysterious’ wine which
the youthful cup-bearers of Muslim paradise offer to the blessed
spirits” [“Sensi e soprasensi” 44].
Bausani explains that the Sufis relate the cup-bearer to ‘the ancient
mystic legend wherefore at the beginning of the Divine Love, the
cup-bearer (sáqí), as God-the Beloved, poured the wine for God-the
Lover during forty successive dawns and thus he created the world’
[‘Letteratura neopersiana’ 162; see Religion in Iran 277]. Sufis also relate the
motifs of the cup-bearer, wine and drunkenness to the rúz-i-alast, the
metahystorical morning when human souls entered into the eternal
Covenant with their Creator, which is the basis of their life on earth
and of the development of human civilization [see HW Persian no. 19].
According to the German Orientalist Annemarie Schimmel (1922–
2003), the Sufis
saw this moment in poetical imagery as a spiritual banquet in
which the wine of Love was distributed to humanity so that
everyone received the share which he or she will have in this
life. Here, the imagery of wine is used not for the final goal
of the mystic’s unification with God and his being filled with
Him, but rather as the starting point of the flow of Divine
grace at the beginning of time. [Deciphering 109]
Finally, according to Saccone, the cup-bearer sometimes symbolizes
the Beloved himself, as
an initiator, i.e., he who ... initiates the poet ... into the
mysteries of wine and love for him [God]. [And the poet’s]
initiation ... is essentially a summon to folly, to disarm one’s
intellect and its analytic processes, because the lover will
attain unto the reunion with his friend ... only in the
condition of ‘sacred folly,’ fostered by his drunkenness.
[“Sensi e soprasensi” 49, 50]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Bahá’u’lláh mentions the Sáqí in at least three of His poems, Sáqí
az Ghayb-i-Baqá, Sáqí bi-dih ábí, and Sáqí bi-dih án jám [see Ishráq
Khávarí, Má’idiy-i-Asmání 4:176-211].
The cup
The image of the cup is associated with the image of the cup-
bearer. The symbolic meanings of the words denoting a “cup” have
been commented upon at length by many writers. Saná’í and ‘A††ár
see it as a symbol of the human heart, and Gnostic thinkers as the
Knowing Soul (nafs-i-dáná), that is a human soul which having been
purified has become crystal-clear. Óáfiẓ says that the cup is the
“intimate illuminating soul of the Friend.” “Cup” in Persian is also
called paymánih, a word resembling paymán, which means covenant.
Therefore the two concepts are often used together in a play on
words [see Bausani, Religion in Iran 262]. In the Muslim world, Covenant
especially means the Covenant between God and man. If man submits
to the laws of God, God in His turn will purify his soul, and will
enable him to grow spiritually. Cardinal Gianfranco Ravasi, an Italian
Catholic Biblicist, theologian, archaeologist and Hebraist explains the
meaning of the symbol of the cup in the Hebrew world:
Although the cup is a liturgical element (especially in Easter
Judaic and Eucharistic rites), it becomes a relevant symbol to
denote the destiny of a person, because of the idea that a cup
contains a certain amount of liquid. We thus have the cup of
salvation [Psalms 116:13] and especially that of the divine
judgment, the cup of fury [Isaiah 51:17-22], which also is a sign
of death ... [500 curiosità 47]
As has been said, Rú˙u’lláh mentions the Cupbearer in three
verses:
Fill up the wine-cup, O Cupbearer, to the brim;
By Thy liquor, set the Sinai of the heart on fire. [1]
O Cupbearer! Kindly proffer the cup of Thy gifts,
That I may be cleansed from crimes and faults. [19]
Hail, O Cupbearer at the eternal banquet,
Graciously pour a wine drop on this dust,

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
That these patterns may be brightened by Thy bounty,
That we may be sacrificed for the One Beloved. [20-1]
Who else is this Cupbearer, this heavenly Person, if not Bahá’u’lláh
Himself, the Beloved par excellence. And what else is His wine, if not
His soul-entrancing Word? Bahá’u’lláh kindles the fire of love in the
poet’s heart. And since this poet responds to His offer, He cleanses
his heart “from crimes and faults.” He prepares it to the highest
proof of love: offering his life on the path of service.
Springtime motifs
In our poem, the Anacreontic themes, strictly connected with
mystical themes, easily turn into springtime motifs. And the young
poet speaks of “the rose-garden of the spirit (gulshan-i-ján),” of “the
scent of the Loved One (búy-i-Dúst),” of a “breeze (násím),” and of
“soul-stirring scented breathes (mu’a††ar naf˙ih-háy-i-jánfazá).”
In the Bahá’í Writings springtime has mostly been associated to
the days of the Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad from 22 April
to 3 May 1863:
The Divine Springtime is come, O Most Exalted Pen, for the
Festival of the All-Merciful is fast approaching. Bestir
thyself, and magnify, before the entire creation, the name of
God, and celebrate His praise, in such wise that all created
things may be regenerated and made new. Speak, and hold not
thy peace. The day star of blissfulness shineth above the
horizon of Our name, the Blissful, inasmuch as the kingdom
of the name of God hath been adorned with the ornament of
the name of thy Lord, the Creator of the heavens. Arise
before the nations of the earth, and arm thyself with the
power of this Most Great Name, and be not of those who
tarry. [GWB 27, sec. XIV, π1, Law˙-i-Ri∂ván]
Bahá’u’lláh also writes about springtime in other Tablets:
Seize the time, therefore, ere the glory of the divine
springtime hath spent itself, and the Bird of Eternity ceased
to warble its melody, that thy inner hearing may not be
deprived of hearkening unto its call. [KI 24, π23]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
It behoveth you to refresh and revive your souls through the
gracious favours which in this Divine, this soul-stirring
Springtime are being showered upon you. [TB 86, Law˙-i-Dunyá]
An evidence of His bonds with springtime also is present in a
prayer He wrote while He was confined in the citadel of ‘Akká:
Glory to Thee, O my God! The first stirrings of the spring of
Thy grace have appeared and clothed Thine earth with verdure.
The clouds of the heaven of Thy bounty have rained their rain
on this City within whose walls is imprisoned Him Whose
desire is the salvation of Thy creatures. Through it the soil of
this City hath been decked forth, and its trees clothed with
foliage, and its inhabitants gladdened. [PM 199, sec. 117, π1]
The image of springtime as the beginning of a new Dispensation is
a typical feature of the Writings and talks by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who,
while dealing with progressive revelation, described the advent of the
new Manifestation of God as a new springtime:
Soon the whole world, as in springtime, will change its garb.
The turning and falling of the autumn leaves is past; the
bleakness of the winter time is over. The new year hath
appeared and the spiritual springtime is at hand. The black
earth is becoming a verdant garden; the deserts and
mountains are teeming with red flowers; from the borders of
the wilderness the tall grasses are standing like advance guards
before the cypress and jessamine trees; while the birds are
singing among the rose branches like the angels in the highest
heavens, announcing the glad-tidings of the approach of that
spiritual spring, and the sweet music of their voices is causing
the real essence of all things to move and quiver. [TAB2 318-9]
Echoes of these words must have come to the ears of Rú˙u’lláh, who
implicitly relates these springtime motifs with the “Day of the
Covenant (Yawm-i-Míthaq).”
From the rose-garden of the spirit, I’ll inhale the scent of the
Loved One;
From the abode of the Beloved, I’ll come back like a
breeze,

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
With soul-stirring scented breaths,

With blessed and cheerful glad-tidings.
I proclaim to my travelling companions: Hasten,
O my friends! The Day of the Covenant hath come!
Love motifs
The whole poem is a hymn of love, not only for Bahá’u’lláh but
also for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The first part of the poem conveys the deep
love of the poet for the “Loved One (Dúst),” the “Beloved (Dúst)”
and the “Adored One (Dúst)”: he summons his readers to “assist and
help” His Cause, to teach His Faith, that it “may shine above all the
regions of the earth.” If they want to be worthy of such an honor,
they should “move away from fancies and doubts,” “the thorns of
their hearts” should become “roses;” they should be assured that “The
Lord of Creation will come to... [their] rescue.” But most of all they
should be “on fire in the desert of exclusion,” and “burn in the flames of
separation,” so that they may be ready to offer their lives on His path.
The end of the poem
From verse 31 the poet turns to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The special love
that Rú˙u’lláh had for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reflected the same love that
flourished in his father after an episode described by Adib
Taherzadeh as follows:
Once Bahá’u’lláh spoke to Varqá [Rú˙u’lláh’s father] about
the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and extolled His virtues and
heavenly qualities. He said that in this world of being there
was a phenomenon which He had referred to in some Tablets
as the ‘Most Great Elixir’. Any person who possessed this
power would be able to exert enormous influence in the
world through his work and could do anything he desired...
And now, look at the Master. Observe with what patience
and compassion He dealt with all types of people. He
possessed this power, therefore immeasurable was the extent
of the influence He would exert upon the world of humanity.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
When Varqá heard this, he was so filled with joy and
excitement that he fell prostrate at Bahá’u’lláh’s feet and
begged Him to make it possible for him and one of his sons
to lay down their lives in the path of the Master. Bahá’u’lláh
favoured him with His acceptance. When he returned to
Persia, Varqá wrote to Bahá’u’lláh and renewed his plea for
martyrdom, a plea to which He again favourably responded.
And... this happened; he was martyred during the Ministry of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. [Revelation 4:56-7]
Rú˙u’lláh describes ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His glory, erect “as an Alif,”
and in His utter submission to the Will of God, ‘submissive as a bih.”
This use of the Arabic alphabet is not uncommon in the verses of the
mystic Persian poets. For example Shamsu’d-Dín Óáfiẓ (ca. 1318–
1390) writes:
On my heart’s tablet is naught save the (straight) alif... of
the Friend’s stature:
What may I do? Me, recollection of other letter the teacher
(the murshid) gave not. [Díván 703, no. 416, v.8]
The verses addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are 10. And they end with a
ta∂mín,2 a quotation of a verse by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself:
Look not at my merits or worth,
Look at Thy grace, O bountiful Lord. [Majmú’ih 13:411-2, verse
7; provisional translation by the authors]
The whole poem may be inadequately rendered in English as
follows:
He is God.
O God of all graces and Lord of all bounties,
Who knowest my heart, my secrets, and my soul!
Every morning Thou art the Companion of my soul.
Thou knowest my anguish and my distress.
Fastened to Thy remembrance, this heart
Only Thy angst as a companion longs for.
Perish the heart which does not burn for Thee!

The Mathnaví by Rú˙u’lláh Varqá
Be blinded the eye that does not cry for Thee!
O Almighty, in this darksome night,
in my heart Thy remembrance is a glowing lamp.
Upon my heart breathe the breath of life, by Thy bounty,
That non-existence, by Thy grace, into eternity may turn.
Look not at my merits or worth,
Look at Thy grace, O bountiful Lord.
Upon these broken-winged birds,
By Thy benevolence, new wings bestow.3


* * *
At the end of our perusal of this Mathnaví, we can but express our
astonishment and awe in front of this twelve-year-old boy, who
demonstrated through his verses and much more his behavior, that
not only he had preserved his heart as a mirror “upon which no dust
has fallen”, as that of a child, but that he also had acquired most of
“the divine perfections latent in the heart of man” [PUP 72, π2, 73, π4].
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Majmú‘iy-i-Makátíb-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 13. The
Iran National Bahá’í Archives (INBA), 132 BE. http://www.h-
net.org/ bahai/diglib/INBA/INBA013.pdf (accessed on 26 Nov. 2015).
Adhkáru’l-Muqarrabín. Teheran: Mu’assisiy-i-Ma†bu‘at-i-Amrí, 116 EB, 1947.
Afnan, Hasan. “Ta∂mín-i-Mathnavíy-i-Jináb-i-Rú˙u’lláh Varqá, Khúshih-ha-
í Az Kharman-i-Adab va Hunar,” in Proceedings of a Seminar on Varqá,
vol. 5 (Landegg Academy, Switzerland: Society for Persian Letters and
Arts, 1994) 225-226.
Bahá’í Studies Review. Association for Bahá’í Studies for English-speaking
Europe. London, 1991-.
Bausani, Alessandro. “La letteratura neopersiana,” in Pagliaro and
Bausani: La letteratura persiana, pp. 133-563.
———. Religion in Iran Religion in Iran. Translated by J.M. Marchesi.
New York: Bibliotheca Persica Press, 2000
Edward G. Browne. A Literary History of Persia. Bethesda: Maryland:
Iranbooks, 1997.
Bruijn, Johannes Thomas Pieter de. “Mathnáwí,” Encyclopaedia of Islam.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Óáfiẓ, Shamsu’d-Dín. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H. Wilberforce
Clarke. Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997. Available at
archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt
(accessed 16 September 2017).
———. [Hâfez] Il libro del coppiere, a cura di Carlo Saccone. Milan: Luni
editrice, 1998.
Hanaway, William L. “Sáḳí: In Persian Usage.” Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Ishráq Khávarí, Abdu’l-Óamíd. Má’iday-i-Ásmání. A compilation of Bahá’í
Writings. 9 vols. Teheran: Mu’assisa Millí Ma†bu‘át Amrí, 129 BE (1972).
Lewis, Franklin. “Bahá’u’lláh’s Mathnavíy-i Mubárak: introduction and
provisional translation,” in Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 9 (1999/2000)
Pagliaro, Antonino and Alessandro Bausani. La letteratura Persiana. Firenze:
Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
Ravasi, Gianfranco. 500 curiosità della fede. Milan: Mondadori, 2009
Saccone, Carlo. “Prefazione, introduzione, nota alla traduzione, note,
bibliografia orientativa e appendice», in Hâfez, Il libro del coppiere, pp.
7-66, 216-412.
———. “Sensi e soprasensi nei fragmenta di Hâfez, ovvero introduzione a
uno ‘stilnovista’ persiano.” In Hâfez, Il libro del Coppiere, pp. 14-66.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A Phenomenological
Approach to Islam. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary
Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met with in Persian
Literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1974–1987.



NOTES
1 Abu’l-Qasim Firdawsi Tusi (c. 940–1020), the greatest Persian epic poet.
2 Ta∂mín: “inserting the verses of another in one’s own poem” (Steingass
306), that is quoting a “very famous verse of another poet” (Bausani,
“Letteratura neopersiana,” p. 178).
3 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Majmú‘ih 13:208; see also Adhkáru’l-Muqarrabín 2:135. A
provisional translation by Mardani and Savi.

The Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
in the Mirror of Mawlúd 1 Tablets
Foad Seddigh

Introduction
Historically, the commemoration of the anniversary of the birth
of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh was celebrated in the East over two
consecutive days according to the lunar calendar on the first and
second of Mu˙arram,2 and in the West on October 20 and November
12, according to the Gregorian calendar respectively. Since B.E. 172
(2015), in accordance with the call of the Universal House of Justice,
these two Holy Days have been celebrated globally in a uniform
fashion, over two consecutive days, based on the provisions of the
Badí‘ calendar. According to a procedure set in place by the Universal
House of Justice and intended to harmonize the lunar and solar dates
celebrated previously, the twin Holy Days will be celebrated on the
“first and second day following the occurrence of the eighth new
moon after Naw-Rúz”, resulting in the twin Birthdays being
commemorated somewhere between mid-October to mid-November
depending on the specific year in question. This clarification by the
Universal House of Justice follows the pronouncement by
Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and the Epistle of Questions and
Answers that these two days are considered as one day in sight of
God.3
During this year when the world-wide Bahá’í community celebrates
the 200th Anniversary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh, we have the bounty

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
of receiving a priceless gift offered by the Universal House of Justice
to the Bahá’í world, namely the book Days of Remembrance.4 This
book contains the translation into English of Tablets revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh for Holy days. In particular this compilation contains six
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed for the occasion of the twin Holy
Days, two Tablets for the Birth of the Báb and four Tablets relating
to His own personage. These Tablets are as follows:
For the Birth of The Báb:
1. Tablet no. 40. “In the name of the One born on this day...”
[pp. 199 – 201]
2. Tablet no. 41. “He is the Eternal, the One, the Single.” [pp.
202 – 204]
For the Birth of Bahá’u’lláh:
3. Tablet no. 42. Law˙-i-Mawlúd (Tablet of the Birth) [pp. 207
– 212]
4. Tablet no. 43. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Exalted ...”
[pp. 213 – 215]
5. Tablet no. 44. “He is God. O concourse of ardent lovers
...” [pp. 216 – 219]
6. Tablet no. 45. “He is the Most Holy ... This is the
month...” [pp. 220 – 221]
Tablets are numbered in the above list according to the same
numbers utilized in the book Days of Remembrance.
The author of this paper has not been able to identify any Tablet
which the Báb specifically revealed for His own birth. The reason for
this could have been His intention to minimize its importance, that
the focus of the people be on the impending advent of “Him Whom
God shall make manifest”; an exalted being to Whom He referred as
“Remnant of God” in His first and mightiest work “Qayyúmu’l-
Asmá”:5

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
O THOU Remnant of God! I have sacrificed myself wholly
for Thee; I have accepted curses for Thy sake, and have
yearned for naught but martyrdom in the path of Thy love.
Sufficient witness unto me is God, the Exalted, the Protector,
the Ancient of Days. [SWB 59]
In Traveller's Narrative, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts:
Now what He intended by the term Báb [Gate] was this, that
He was the channel of grace from some great Person still
behind the veil of glory, Who was the possessor of countless
and boundless perfections, by Whose will He moved, and to
the bond of Whose love He clung. [TN 4]
The Báb states:
For all that hath been exalted in the Bayán is but as a ring
upon My hand, and I Myself am, verily, but a ring upon the
hand of Him Whom God shall make manifest — glorified be
His mention! He turneth it as He pleaseth, for whatsoever He
pleaseth, and through whatsoever He pleaseth. He, verily, is
the Help in Peril, the Most High. [SWB 168]
A.L.M. Nicolas,
6 who greatly admired the Báb, produced one of
the most extensive early translations of some of His Writings. He
thought that Bahá’ís reduced the Báb to the mere figure of a herald
for the advent of Bahá’u’lláh, not knowing that the Báb’s ardent
desire was to sacrifice Himself and His religion for the coming of the
New Age and the advent of coming of Bahá’u’lláh.
Returning to the discussion regarding the two Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh revealed for the anniversary of the birth of the Báb, we
notice that only a few lines are devoted to the birth of the Báb in
each Tablet; a major part of each Tablet is about the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, very much in accordance with the desire of the Báb
Himself.
Manifestations of God have three identities. The first one is a
physical identity which has a beginning and an end; it starts with the
birth of the manifestation of God and ends at the time of his passing
away. This body will be reduced to dust like the body of other human

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
beings after their death. Manifestations of God are subject to all
manners of physical limitations such as disease, fatigue and hunger
like other human beings. The second identity is their human soul
which is the rational soul, having a beginning and no end — this is
why prophet Mu˙ammad in the Qur’án says I am a human being like
you.7 The third identity is the Great Spirit of God reflected within
them which has no beginning and no end. This is the Reality which
brings to them the Knowledge of what has been and what will be.
This is true for all Manifestations of God, and this Reality has existed
from the beginning, even before their births. As discussed later in this
paper, according to a statement by Bahá’u’lláh, the significance of
the birth of a Manifestation of God, say that of the Báb or
Bahá’u’lláh, is association of this eternal and everlasting Spirit with a
body which is borne and in due course would declare the advent of a
new age. As regards the time of declaration for their Mission,
Bahá’u’lláh quoting the Báb in the Kitáb-i-Badí‘ states that as soon as
a person is ready to receive the Message, it will not be delayed even
by a fraction of a second.
Due to the limitation of space in this paper, a brief review of four
Tablets in the compilation is undertaken, namely Tablets number 41,
43, 44 and 45; and a more detailed discussion of two of the Tablets
carried out, i.e. Tablets number 40 and 42.
Also in this paper, due to space limitation, we will not discuss
matters related to the physical and human aspect of the births of the
twin Manifestations of God, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.
A Summary of Contents of Four Tablets
1. Second Tablet in the list of six Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh (Tablet no. 41 in the Book; pp. 202 – 204)
This Tablet is revealed for the anniversary of the birth of the Báb.
The Tablet starts with its title invoking the names and attributes of
God, with its opening lines giving praise unto God for adorning the
world with the advent of the Báb the anniversary of Whose birth is
being celebrated and Who Heralded the Revelation of the supreme
Lordship of God; and it asks God to assist those who cry out amidst
the peoples of the world for the Glorification of the Name of God. It

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
observes that the “Lord of all mankind” is imprisoned in the Most
Great Prison (Akka), calling aloud the Name of God. Bahá’u’lláh then
declares that despite His captivity in the hands of men, the light of
His power shines resplendent — and furthermore, He asserts that the
power of the enemies of God cannot prevail over Him and is
incapable of frustrating Him. He implores God for the victory of
those who have arisen to serve Him and beseeches God to make them
become triumphant over the enemies of His God and to become
steadfast in the Cause of God. Towards the end of the Tablet, a
prayer is revealed for the recipient of the Tablet to recite.
2. Fourth Tablet in the list of six Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh (Tablet no. 43 in the Book, p. 213 – 215)
This Tablet is revealed for the anniversary of the birth of
Bahá’u’lláh. The Tablet starts with its title invoking the names and
attributes of God, with its opening line proclaiming that the birthday
festival has come. In the Tablet He says, “He Who is the Beauty of
God, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling, the All-Loving, hath
ascended His throne.” Continuing, Bahá’u’lláh says that He celebrates
this festival in the Most Great Prison at a time when the kings and
rulers of the world had arisen against Him. Referring to Himself as
the “quintessence of assurance”, Bahá’u’lláh says that this has not
disturbed Him. He says that in this day (day of His birth) the “choice
wine hath been unsealed.” Normally, we associate this phrase with the
declaration of His Mission, but He pronounces it for the occasion of
His birth. He counsels the people of Bahá to soar upon the wings of
detachment into the atmosphere of the love of their Lord. Then He
goes on to say: “It behoveth you to arise and acquaint the people with
that which hath been sent down in the Book of their Lord, the
Almighty, the Unconstrained. Say: Fear ye God and pay no heed to the
vain imaginings of them that walk in the ways of doubt and iniquity.”
He puts forward a rhetorical question to the reader, asking whether
one can be content with a mere pond whilst the Most Great Ocean is
stretched out before their eyes? Bahá’u’lláh refers to Himself as the
Bird of Eternity warbling upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree.
He calls upon the people to “renounce those who idly dispute the
verses that God hath revealed, and who have disbelieved in their Lord
when He came invested with proof and testimony.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
3. Fifth Tablet in the list of six Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh (Tablet no. 44 in the Book: pages 216 – 219)
Bahá’u’lláh revealed this Tablet for the anniversary of His Own
birth. He addresses the concourse of ardent lovers and says: “By the
righteousness of God, this is a night the like of which hath never been
witnessed in the world of creation,” and “This is the night wherein
the Spirit intoned such a melody as to throw into commotion the
inner realities of all men, proclaiming: ‘Rejoice, O Concourse on
high, within your retreats of Paradise!’” The realities of all men are
their human qualities and human intellect. The inner realities of all
men are their spiritual life and existence. Also He says: “Whereupon
did the Voice of God call out from within the Tabernacle of holiness
and bounty: ‘This, indeed, is the night wherein He Who is the reality
of the All-Merciful hath been born, the night wherein every eternal
command hath been expounded by the Pen of the All-Glorious.
Rejoice, then, with exceeding gladness, O concourse of the Bayán’!”
Then, He refers to the call of the Herald of the Spirit in the midmost
heart of eternity. Further reflection may be needed to uncover the
identity of this being; it might be the Báb, or might be someone or
something else. This Being says: “By God! The musk-scented wine hath
been unsealed by the mighty hand of Him Who is the source of
sovereignty and power. And this, verily, is from the grace of God, the
Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.” and “cups of crimson-coloured
wine are being borne round by the hand of the divine Joseph and
raised to the beauty of the All-Glorious. And this, verily, is from the
grace of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.”
Then Bahá’u’lláh addresses the concourse of men to come forward
and drink their fill from this everlasting life. Then He continues on
to say: “O assemblage of true lovers! The beauty of the Desired One
hath shone forth in its naked glory. And this, verily, is from the grace
of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful. O concourse of His
loved ones! The countenance of the Best-Beloved hath dawned above
the horizon of holiness. Bestir yourselves and hasten unto it with all
your hearts, O people of the Bayán! And this, verily, is from the grace
of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.” He states that the
proof has been fulfilled and testimonies are established and
resurrection has come to pass through the appearance of the
Manifestation of God. Then He announces: “The ages have passed,

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
and the cycles have been stirred up, and every luminary hath beamed
with delight, for God hath shed the splendour of His glory upon
every tree adorned with verdant twigs. And this, verily, is from the
grace of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.” He calls upon
His lovers to “Bestir yourselves, O chosen ones of God, for the
spirits have been gathered together, the divine breezes have wafted,
the fleeting fancies have been dispelled, and the voices of eternity
have rung out from every flourishing tree. And this, verily, is from
the grace of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.” Bahá’u’lláh
then states that the veils have been burned away, and the clouds are
rent asunder, signs have been revealed and allusions were unravelled
by Him. He says: “Let your hearts be filled with joy, but conceal this
closely guarded, this most hidden secret, lest the stranger become
apprised of that which ye have quaffed of the wine that imparteth
rapture and delight. And this, verily, is from the grace of God, the
Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.” Bahá’u’lláh then reminds the
people of the Bayán that “God beareth Me witness that His favour is
complete, His mercy is perfected, and His countenance is beaming
with joy and radiance. And this, verily, is from the grace of God, the
Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful.” Finally as the Tablet draws to a
close, He encourages His companions to drink their fill from the
sparkling luminous streams which are provided for them from the
grace of God.
4. Sixth Tablet in the list of six Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh (Tablet no. 45 in the Book, pp. 220 – 221)
This short Tablet which has come under the category of the
Tablets for the anniversary of the birth of the Twin Manifestations,
is not for the day of birth, rather for the month of the birth which
should be regarded as the month of Mu˙arram in the lunar year. The
month of Mu˙arram is the first month of the year in the lunar
calendar. It is also the month of mourning for the Shí’ah, since one of
the most revered persons in this sect of Islam, Imám Óusayn, grand-
son of Prophet Mu˙ammad, was martyred on the 10th day of this
month. Key points in this Tablet are listed in bullet form below.
Whenever extracts from the Tablet are used, they are placed in
quotation marks:
o The Tablet starts with names and attributes of God.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
o In reference to this month wherein Bahá’u’lláh was borne, He
refers to it as a month through which all other months were
illumined and refers to Himself as:
• “He Who beareth the Most Great Name,”
• “Whose appearance hath caused the limbs of humankind to
quake,”
• “and the dust of Whose footsteps the Concourse on high
and the dwellers of the cities of names have sought for a
blessing.”
• “Whereupon they rendered praise unto God and cried out in
joy and exultation.”
• “He Who is the Hidden Secret and the Well-guarded
Treasure hath been made manifest and hath called aloud
amidst all humankind.”
• “All dominion belongeth to this newborn Child through
Whom”:
! “the face of creation hath been wreathed in smiles,”
! “the trees have swayed,”
! “and the oceans have surged,”
! “and the mountains have taken flight,”
! “and Paradise hath lifted its voice,”
! “and the Rock hath cried out,”
! All things have exclaimed, “O concourse of creation!
Hasten ye towards the dawning-place of the countenance
of your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate”!
o This is the month wherein:
• “Paradise itself was decked forth with the splendours of the
countenance of its Lord,”
• “The heavenly Nightingale warbled its melody upon the
Divine Lote-Tree,”
• “The hearts of the favoured ones were filled with rapture.”
• “But alas, the people, for the most part, are heedless.”
• “Blessed be the one who hath recognized Him.”
• “Woe betide him that hath turned aside from the One upon
Whom the Concourse on high have fixed their gaze, Him
Who hath confounded every wayward misbeliever.”

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
Bahá’u’lláh calls upon the recipient of the Tablet to intone with
sweetest melodies this prayer:
Praise be to Thee, O my most merciful Lord, for
remembering me in this Tablet whereby the fragrance of the
garment of Thy knowledge was diffused and the oceans of
Thy grace were made to surge. I bear witness that Thou art
potent to do as Thou pleasest. No God is there but Thee, the
Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Detailed Study of Tablets Number 40 and 42
The commentary that follows reflects the author’s own
understanding and therefore is not intended to suggest that these are
the only meanings of the passages considered.
Explanation of Some Words and Phrases in the Tablet
Number 40:
Herald of His name:
The name in this Tablet means Bahá, and the Herald of His name is
simply the Báb.
This is a Tablet We have addressed unto that night wherein
the heavens and the earth were illumined by a Light that cast
its radiance over the entire creation.
‘The night’ is the night of the birth of the Báb. In this night the
whole world after being in spiritual darkness for some time became
illumined and this light is the light of Guidance emanating from the
Countenance of the Báb.
O night! For through thee was born the Day of God, a Day
which We have ordained to be the lamp of salvation unto the
denizens of the cities of names
The Day of God is a reference to a time in the future mentioned in
the past prophecies. This Day belongs to God and will not be
followed by night. In this quote several allusions are made. The first

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
one is a reference to the Day of God which we will discuss in more
detail. The second one is that the “Day of God” was born or started
with the birth of the Báb and not by the time of the declaration of
His mission. And finally this Day is like a lamp which provides
Guidance to the people of this world.
Day of God
In the past Scriptures numerous references were made to the Day
of God meaning that there will be a time when God or the Lord of
all mankind will rule the entire creation, or the Father Himself will
come. In the space appearing below, three such references are given
from the Bible and several more are listed in the notes.
Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his
arm shall rule for him. And, recompense for his work He shall
feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with
his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead
those that are with young. [Isaiah 40: 10 & 11]
The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness
of men shall be bowed down, and the Lord alone shall be
exalted in that day. For the day of the Lord of hosts shall be
upon every one that is proud and lofty, and upon every one
that is lifted up; and he shall be brought low. [Isaiah 2: 11 & 12]
Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall
devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round
about him.
He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that
he may judge his people. [Psalms 50: 3 & 4]
Many references to “meeting God” appear in the Qur’án. One
reference is given below and several more references are given in the
notes.10
And they say: When we are lost in the earth, how can we then
be re-created? Nay but they are disbelievers in the meeting
with their Lord. [Surih As-Sajda 32:10]

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
In the Bahá’í Writings there are numerous references to the Day of
God, making it impracticable to be quoted in a limited space.
Therefore, we will quote only one reference below:
Say: This is the Day of God Himself; fear ye God and be not
of them that have disbelieved in Him. Cast the idle tales
behind your backs and behold My Revelation through Mine
eyes.... Arise thou to serve the Cause of thy Lord; then give
the people the joyful tidings concerning this resplendent
Light whose revelation hath been announced by God through
His Prophets and Messengers. Admonish everyone moreover
to observe prudence as ordained by Him, and in the Name of
God advise them, saying: It behoveth every one in this Day of
God to dedicate himself to the teaching of the Cause with
utmost prudence and steadfastness. [TB 241]


* * *
Immeasurably exalted is God, the Maker of the heavens, Who
hath caused this Day to speak forth that Name whereby the
veils of idle fancy have been rent asunder, the mists of vain
imaginings have been dispelled, and His name “the Self-
Subsisting” hath dawned above the horizon of certitude.
In the above phrase, “that Name” is Bahá which has caused the veils
of idle fancy and vain imaginings to be torn and disappear.
In the Bahá’í Writings “Self-Subsisting” is the name and title of
Bahá’u’lláh. Self-Subsisting is one of the names of God which means
“a Being” Who causes others to stand up while He Himself does not
need the support of anyone else. The name of God: “Self-Subsisting”
appears three times in the Qur’án and in all three cases, it is joined
with the attribute of “Living.”11
Through Thee the choice wine of everlasting life hath been
unsealed, the doors of knowledge and utterance have been
unlocked before the peoples of the earth.
In this phrase, “everlasting life” is the spiritual life which can only
be given to anyone by the Manifestation of God for today. This
everlasting life is likened to a choice wine which had been sealed for

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
ages and is now opened before the eyes of men, offering them to
drink their fill.
All glory be to that hour wherein the Treasure of God, the
All-Powerful,
the
All-Knowing,
the
All-Wise,
hath
appeared !
Bahá’u’lláh was the “hidden Treasure of God” Who has now
appeared. This reminds us of the promise of the Báb to Mullá Óusayn
that he will find “the hidden secret of God” and “the Hidden Treasure
of God” in ˇihrán before he left Shíráz for the fulfillment of his
mission. He found Bahá’u’lláh in ˇihrán.
O concourse of earth and heaven! This is that first night,
which God hath made to be a sign of that second night.
The first night of the Twin Holy Days is the anniversary of the
birth of the Báb which is viewed as a sign for the second night which
is the anniversary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh.
On this night the Concourse on high celebrated the praise of
their Lord, the Exalted, the Most Glorious, and the realities
of the divine names extolled Him Who is the King of the
beginning and the end in this Revelation, a Revelation
through whose potency the mountains have hastened
unto Him Who is the All-Sufficing, the Most High,
and the hearts have turned towards the countenance of their
Best-Beloved, and the leaves have been stirred into motion by
the breezes of yearning, and the trees have raised their voices
in joyful reply to the call of Him Who is the Unconstrained,
and the entire earth hath trembled with longing in its desire
to attain reunion with the Eternal King, and all things have
been made new by that concealed Word which hath
appeared in this mighty Name.
There are several phrases in the above quote which require
explanation:
Bahá’u’lláh is the “King of the beginning and the end” in this day.
Manifestations of God are kings of the beginning and the end. This is
due to the fact that the Spirit of God within them has no beginning

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
and no end. There is a Qur’ánic verse which Bahá’u’lláh has quoted in
His Writings and clarified its meaning. It says: “He is the First and
the Last, and the Outward and the Inward; and He is Knower of all
things” (Surih Al-Hadid 57:2). In this regard, Manifestations of God
and in particular Bahá’u’lláh can be regarded as the sovereign and the
king in the realm of the “first and last” and “the beginning and the end.”
“All things have been made new” is a biblical reference as follows:
“Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things
have passed away, ... creature, the old things are passed away, behold
all things are made new..... it follows that there must have been a
total change in all relations towards him” [2 Corinthians 5:17]. In this
day, by appearance of Bahá’u’lláh all things have been made new
through the potency of His Name.
O night of the All-Bountiful! In thee do We verily behold the
Mother Book. Is it a Book, in truth, or rather a child
begotten? Nay, by Myself! Such words pertain to the realm of
names, whilst God hath sanctified this Book above all names.
Through it the Hidden Secret and the Treasured Mystery have
been revealed. Nay, by My life! All that hath been mentioned
pertaineth to the realm of attributes, whereas the Mother
Book standeth supreme above this. Through it have appeared
the manifestations of “There is no God but God” over them
all. Nay, while such things have been proclaimed to all people,
in the estimation of thy Lord naught but His ear is capable of
hearing them. Blessed are those that are well assured!
Bahá’u’lláh confirms that the significance of the birth of the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh is not the physical birth rather it is for their
appearance in this world to become an instrument or receptacle for
the Great Spirit of God and His Primal Will. Therefore the
celebration also should be for the birth of such instrument and not
for the physical birth.
Explanation of Some Words and Phrases in Tablet #42
O concourse of the seen and the unseen! Rejoice with
exceeding gladness in your hearts and souls, for the night hath
come for the harvesting of the ages and the gathering

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
up of past cycles, the night wherein all days and nights
were called into being and the time preordained for this
Revelation was fulfilled at the behest of Him Who is the
Lord of might and power.
The time of the harvest is when the labourers in the field receive
the benefits of their hard work after the harvest is ripe and it is the
end of the season or symbolically the end of the time. Mankind has
progressed through its own cycle and now is the time for the
gathering of the harvest. The phrase “Gathering of the harvest” has
been used a few times in the Bible in various parables including the
following one:
The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end
of the world; and the reapers are the angels. As therefore the
tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the
end of this world. [Matthew 13:39-41]
This is the night wherein the doors of Paradise were
flung open and the gates of Hell were shut fast, the
night wherein the paradise of the All-Merciful was unveiled in
the midmost heart of creation.
We normally associate a statement such as the one above with the
advent of the declaration of the Manifestation of God. Reflecting on
the above phrase, we realize that Bahá’u’lláh states that in the night
He was born, such events took place. In other words there is very
little difference between the occasion of His birth and that of the
declaration His Mission.
“Last Hour ushered in through the power of truth”: The Hour
and the Last Hour are other names for the day of resurrection which
is interpreted in this occasion as the appearance and declaration of
the Manifestation of God. We may note that this statement, once
again, tells us that the advent of the birth of the Manifestation of
God is not much different from that of His declaration.
“This is the night round which have circled the Nights of Power,
wherein the angels and the Spirit have come down bearing
cups filled at the streams of Paradise”: In the above phrase, there is a

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
reference to the “Nights of Power” wherein “the angels and the
Spirit have come down” — a statement which is discussed below.
Nights of Power: Nights of Power is Islamic terminology. The
“Night of Power” is the translation of the word “Laylatu’l-Qadr” which
can be translated into English in a number of ways, one of which is
the Night of Power. It is common belief among Muslims that the
Qur’án was revealed in the month of Rama∂án
12 according to the text
of the Qur’án.13 The commentators of the Qur’án have not been able
to pin-point the particular night in Rama∂án which may be regarded
as “the Night of Power”.
14 Therefore, they have resorted to guess-
work, according to Óadíth.
15 The reason for the reference to “nights
of power”, which is stated in plural form, is that there are several
nights which have been designated as the “night of power”. Some
Muslims stay awake during all nights in the month of Rama∂án, praying
all night long hoping that one of them might be the night of power.
In the above verse Bahá’u’lláh says: “This is the night round which
have circled the Nights of Power ...” We note that the “night of
power” is regarded as being very holy in Islam and it has a high place
in the hearts and minds of the believers. In order to convey to us the
station of the night in which He was borne, Bahá’u’lláh states that the
“night of power” is circling around this night. We normally
circumambulate anything when we hold it dear. Symbolically, these
references say that the “night of power” despite being so holy, has a
very high regard for the night Bahá’u’lláh was borne to the extent
that it goes around it. The expression for plural “nights of power” is
that there are different opinions regarding which night of the month
of Rama∂án is the night of power.
“the angels and the Spirit have come down”: According to the
text of the Qur’án, it is stated that in the night of power, the angels
and the spirit will come down.16 It is possible that the above phrase
from the Tablet refers to this verse of the Qur’án. However, angels
and the spirit mentioned in the Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh differ in
meaning and interpretation from what Muslim scholars conclude.
Angels are detached and pure souls and the spirit is the Spirit of God
or the Most Great Spirit.
“wherein every created thing was brought to life, and all the
peoples of the earth were surrounded by His grace”: One of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the signs of the time of the end or day of resurrection is that the dead
in bygone ages will be brought to life. Bahá’u’lláh states that with His
birth the day of resurrection came to pass. In other words the day of
resurrection is associated with His birthday as well as the day of the
declaration of His mission.
This is the night wherein the limbs of Jibt were made to
tremble, and the Most Great Idol fell upon the dust, and
the foundations of iniquity were shattered, and Manát
lamented in its inmost being, and the back of ‘Uzzá was
broken and its face blackened.
There are a few references to some names in the above phrase which
will be explained below:
Jibt: At this time, the Kaaba is the most revered structure in
Islam located in Mecca where Muslims go to perform the rites of
pilgrimage. In pre-Islamic Arabia, people were engaged in idol
worship. At that time, the Kaaba contained 360 idols alone and each
tribe and clan had idols of their own which were scattered all over
Arabia. Jibt does not appear to be an idol. The Qur’án makes
reference to Jibt only once and it is not used to reflect the name of
any particular idol. Commentators of the Qur’án believe that Jibt
17 is
a symbol of idol-worshiping and a symbol for all idols.
“The Most Great Idol ”: In the above phrase, there is a
reference to “The Most Great Idol”. Among the idol worshippers of
Arabia, particularly among the Quraysh which was the clan of
Prophet Mu˙ammad, the greatest of all idols had a name — it was
referred to as “Hubal.”
We find in the Qur’án names of three idols from around the time
of the Prophet Muhammad. These are: Lát, Manát and ‘Uzzá,18 idols,
which were by far the most respected idols in Arabia at that time. In
this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh references two of them. Apart from these
three idols, the Qur’án names five more idols from the time of the
Prophet Noah and one more which was an idol of the Israelites.
Reference to idols and idol-worshiping in this dispensation has
specific meaning. Bahá’u’lláh uses the term idol to refer to those who
opposed the Manifestation of God in this day. Bahá’u’lláh also uses

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
the term idol to refer to objects of adoration which have no reality
but are misrepresented. In particular, the symbol of idol worshipping
is Mírzá Ya˙yá, half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh who claimed a station to
which he was not entitled, and placed himself in a position of being
worshipped without having the reality of the Manifestation of God
within him. Apart from Mírzá Ya˙yá, everyone who challenged
Bahá’u’lláh's authority belong to this category. The term idol-
worshipping is also used to refer to any unworthy action which
people devote their lives to; this is not much different from idol-
worshiping — both of them do not have reality.
In modern times idol worship in its traditional form does not
appear widespread in the form of elevating an object to the station
of lordship and then proceeding to revere it, worship it and perform
sacrifices for it. However, there are other kinds of idol-worshipping
which are subtle: some people are consumed by their own thoughts
which might be totally false but dressed in the robe of reality. People
might pursue such thoughts to the extent they might become the
object of all their endeavours in life and the focus of their existence.
To become engaged in the worship of one's vain-imaginings is very
much like worshipping an idol knowing fully well that they have no
power and no reality. Many people become engaged in such activities
because they observe other people. This in fact becomes entrenched
in the habits of some people and such acts become accepted as a
norm and standard in the society. The Bahá’í Writings contain a
number of references in this regard, including examples such as the
following:
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
They consider themselves to be the proponents of the Divine
Unity, and all others as worshippers of idols, even though
idols at least enjoy a mineral existence, whereas the idols of
human thoughts and imaginations are sheer illusion and have
not even the existence of stones. ‘Take ye good heed, O
people of insight’. [SAQ 216]
Bahá’u’lláh says:

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
None have believed in Him except them who, through the
power of the Lord of Names, have shattered the idols of their
vain imaginings and corrupt desires and entered the city of
certitude. [GWB 12]
Tear asunder, in My Name, the veils that have grievously
blinded your vision, and, through the power born of your
belief in the unity of God, scatter the idols of vain imitation.
[GWB 142]
They that are the worshipers of the idol which their
imaginations have carved, and who call it Inner Reality, such
men are in truth accounted among the heathen [GWB 338]
Shoghi Effendi says:
The “Most Great Idol” had at the bidding and through the
power of Him Who is the Fountain-head of the Most Great
Justice been cast out of the community of the Most Great
Name, confounded, abhorred and broken [GPB 170].
The “Most Great Idol” is a reference to Mírzá Ya˙yá.
Say: This is the Dawn whereat the evil ones were
debarred from approaching the realm of might and
grandeur, and wherein the hearts of such as have contended
with God, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Unconstrained,
were lacerated.
In the above phrase, Bahá’u’lláh states that in the day He was borne,
the evil ones were prevented from reaching the realm of might. The
evil ones are those who tried to oppose the religion of God in this
day, on whose apex lies Mírzá Ya˙yá. Other individuals who fall in
this category include some of the leaders in the Bábí community,
ecclesiastics and the learned divines in Islam, in particular Shí’ah,
Islam. Furthermore, the above quote states that the “evil ones” were
debarred from approaching the seat of grandeur. This simply may
mean that they are made powerless to prevail over the Faith of God,
to have ascendancy over the Faith of God and damage or destroy it,
despite their utmost exertions and attempts.

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
A key point of emphasis is the notion that these descriptions may
normally relate to the day that he declared His Mission, but also
Bahá’u’lláh has attached them to the Day of His birth. This is to say
that the Mission was borne in the Day of His birth, but it was hidden
until the proper time arrived.
All hail the appearance of this Spirit, through Whose potency
the dead have been stirred up in their tombs and every
mouldering bone brought to life!
As discussed previously, this phrase is one of the signs of the day of
resurrection.
Through its revelation the hand of His Will hath
stretched forth from the sleeve of grandeur and rent
asunder the veils of the world by the power of His supreme,
His peerless, His all-compelling and exalted sovereignty.
When we study the life history of Moses, we notice that through
the power of the Almighty, he was associated with several miracles. In
one such case, we read that he put His hand in His bosom, and when
He removed it, the hand was shining with bright white light. This
physical description of a miracle, likely was used to reflect a deeper
inner meaning. The hand of a Manifestation of God is the power,
glory, guidance, light and grandeur given to Him by God and this
hand is always hidden in His sleeve or also in His bosom. When He
stretches it out of His sleeve, He can exhibit the power given to him.
Bahá’u’lláh in the above phrase is making reference to past events
which was briefly explained.
to this Dawn whereat the Ancient Beauty hath been
established upon the throne of His Name, the Almighty, the
Most Great!
The above phrase states that He was established on the throne of His
Name on the Day of His birth which once again it may signify that
there may be very little difference between the advent of His
declaration and that of His birth in spiritual sense.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
This is the Dawn whereat was born He Who begetteth not
and Who is not begotten. Well is it with him that immerseth
himself beneath the ocean of inner meaning that surgeth
within this utterance and discovereth the pearls of knowledge
and wisdom.
In the above phrase, it states that He Who begetteth not was
borne. At first glance, there appears to be a possible contradiction
here. However, upon further reflection, there is no contradiction at
all. There is a verse in the Qur’án which refers to God as the Being
Who begetteth not and not begotten.
19 Then according to this verse
of the Qur’án, the being who does not beget nor is begotten is God.
When Bahá’u’lláh says: “was born He Who begetteth not and Who is
not begotten,” He is making a claim and says ‘I am God’. Of course,
this is not the only place that Bahá’u’lláh has made such a claim. For
years, the enemies of His Cause have tried to associate this claim to
falsehood and accused Bahá’ís of believing in Bahá’u’lláh Who claims
to be God. This has been explained in the Bahá’í Writings more than
once. However, individuals who are not fair-minded prefer to hold
their positions on this matter and do not consider the Bahá’í
explanation.
It
is
true
that
Bahá’u’lláh
has
made
such
pronouncements. However, He has not said that He is the Essence of
God. In the realm of creation, He is one of the Manifestations of
God Who are representatives of God. In the first paragraph of the
Kitab-i-Aqdas, He says: “The first duty prescribed by God for His
servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the
Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause and the world of
creation” [KA π1- 19].
Further, in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’u’lláh says:
Either thou or someone else hath said: ‘Let the Súrih of
Tawhíd be translated, so that all may know and be fully
persuaded that the one true God begetteth not, nor is He
begotten. Moreover, the Bábís believe in his (Bahá’u’lláh’s)
Divinity and Godhood.’
O Shaykh! This station is the station in which one dieth to
himself and liveth in God. Divinity, whenever I mention it,

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
indicateth My complete and absolute self-effacement. This is
the station in which I have no control over mine own weal or
woe nor over my life nor over my resurrection .
O Shaykh! How do the divines of this age account for the
effulgent glory which the Sadrah of Utterance hath shed upon
the Son of ‘Imrán (Moses) on the Sinai of Divine knowledge?
He (Moses) hearkened unto the Word which the Burning Bush
had uttered, and accepted it; and yet most men are bereft of
the power of comprehending this, inasmuch as they have
busied themselves with their own concerns, and are unaware
of the things which belong unto God. [ESW 41]
Since Bahá’u’lláh's utterance in this regard has been mostly
misunderstood, in the above phrase after making the statement: “was
born He Who begetteth not and Who is not begotten”, He is making
the pronouncement that well is it with all those who try to
understand correctly the meaning of those verses and discover the
true meaning of His statements in phrases such as the one above.
Say: This is the Dawn whereat the hidden Essence and the
unseen Treasure were made manifest ...
In the above phrase, “unseen Treasure” and “hidden Essence” both
have historical meanings, with both terms referring to Bahá’u’lláh.
The Báb promised Mullá Óusayn that he would eventually find the
“unseen Treasure”, and he found Bahá’u’lláh in Ṭihrán when he
started the assignment given to him by the Báb, traveling to the north
and north east from Shíráz.
the Dawn whereat the Ancient Beauty seized the cup of
immortality with the hands of glory and, having first
quaffed therefrom, proffered it unto all the peoples of the
earth, high and low alike.
In the above phrase the “Ancient Beauty” refers to Bahá’u’lláh and
the “cup of immortality” in a literal sense is a drink which according
to ancient belief and old stories would bring about immortal life. In
the Bahá’í Writings, the term has a spiritual meaning. It is the faith
offered by the Manifestation of God, providing eternal life.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Say: This is the Dawn whereat the Most Great Tree was
planted and bore its exalted and peerless fruits. By the
righteousness of God! Within each fruit of this Tree there
repose the seeds of a myriad melodies.
A tree is a good metaphor to symbolize the Religion of God. Trees
have many characteristics for which we can find symbolic parallels
with the Religion of God. Trees grow from seeds and sapling and
become large, trees go through an annual cycle, trees have leaves
which move around under the action of winds, trees grow and give
shade and shelter, in trees birds warble melodies, and trees give fruits,
etc. For each of those characteristics, we can find a parallel in the
Religion of God. The Burning bush which was a tree offers one such
example. The Guardian explains this in a most beautiful passage:
Then, and only then, will the vast, the majestic process, set in
motion at the dawn of the Adamic cycle, attain its
consummation — a process which commenced six thousand
years ago, with the planting, in the soil of the divine will, of
the tree of divine revelation, and which has already passed
through certain stages and must needs pass through still
others ere it attains its final consummation. The first part of
this process was the slow and steady growth of this tree of
divine revelation, successively putting forth its branches,
shoots and offshoots, and revealing its leaves, buds and
blossoms, as a direct consequence of the light and warmth
imparted to it by a series of progressive dispensations
associated with Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus, Muhammad
and other Prophets, and of the vernal showers of blood shed
by countless martyrs in their path. The second part of this
process was the fruition of this tree, “that belongeth neither
to the East nor to the West,” when the Báb appeared as the
perfect fruit and declared His mission in the Year Sixty in the
city of Shiraz. The third part was the grinding of this sacred
seed, of infinite preciousness and potency, in the mill of
adversity, causing it to yield its oil, six years later, in the city
of Tabriz. The fourth part was the ignition of this oil by the
hand of Providence in the depths and amidst the darkness of
the Siyah-Chal of Tihran a hundred years ago. The fifth, was
the clothing of that flickering light, which had scarcely

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
penetrated the adjoining territory of Iraq, in the lamp of
revelation, after an eclipse lasting no less than ten years, in
the city of Baghdad. The sixth, was the spread of the radiance
of that light, shining with added brilliancy in its crystal globe
in Adrianople ... [MBW 50-57 153]
The Qur’án refers to this same tree in the following manner:
Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. The similitude
of His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp. The lamp is in a
glass. The glass is as it were a shining star. (This lamp is)
kindled from a blessed tree, an olive neither of the East nor
of the West, whose oil would almost glow forth (of itself)
though no fire touched it. [Surih Nur, 24:35]
One fruit of that Tree hath proclaimed what the Burning
Bush had proclaimed aforetime in that hallowed and
snow-white Spot, words to which Moses gave ear and which
caused Him to forsake all created things and to direct His
steps towards the retreats of holiness and grandeur. All
glory, then, to that ecstasy born of God, the Almighty, the
Most Exalted, the Most Great!
Another fruit thereof hath uttered that which enraptured
Jesus and raised Him up to the heaven of manifest splendour.
Yet another fruit thereof hath disclosed that which captivated
the heart of Muhammad, the Apostle of God, Who, carried
away by the sweet accents of the Voice from on high,
ascended unto the Divine Lote-Tree and heard.
In the above passages, Bahá’u’lláh describes that the Tree of the
Religion of God was planted in the night when He was borne and He
describes the fruits of this tree which are past religions. The
statement of Bahá’u’lláh and that of Shoghi Effendi in this regard are
similar, except that the Guardian combines it with the verse from the
Qur’án as stated above. By the advent of the Báb, this Tree gave
some fruits whose seeds produced some oil in the mill of adversity;
this oil was extracted and ignited in a symbolic lamp in the Black Pit;
this lamp was Bahá’u’lláh. What is striking in the statement of

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Bahá’u’lláh in the Tablet of His birth is that this tree was planted
when He was borne and not when He made His declaration.
O Pen of the Most High! Write no more; for, by God, wert thou
to set forth all the sweet accents of the fruits of this heavenly
Tree, thou wouldst find thyself forsaken upon the earth.
The Pen of the Most High is another expression for the heavenly
spirit of Bahá’u’lláh which was engaged in the guidance of mankind.
In reality Bahá’u’lláh is addressing His Own spirit to stop divulging
any further Truth as people do not have capacity to understand it. In
the above passage there is an allusion made to a verse of the Qur’án
in which the Prophet Mu˙ammad is addressed in similar tone.20
Dost thou not witness, O Pen, what a clamour the hypocrites
have raised throughout the land, and what a tumult the
wicked
and
ungodly
have
provoked?
And
this
notwithstanding that thou didst reveal but an infinitesimal
glimmer of the mysteries of thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the
All-Glorious. Glorious. Wherefore, restrain thyself and
conceal from the eyes of men that which God, as a sign of
His bounty, hath bestowed upon thee.
In the above passage, Bahá’u’lláh addresses the Pen Who in fact is no
one except Himself, then states that despite the fact that very little
Truth is disclosed about the mysteries of God, the hypocrites have
raised their objection and created trouble.
Conclusion and Acknowledgement
Recently, the Supreme Institution offered a gift to the Bahá’í
world, a compilation of Writings comprising the Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh in English called Days of Remembrance. This book,
among other Tablets, includes several Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed
specifically for the occasion of His birth and that of the Báb. These
Tablets are reviewed in this paper.
In these Tablets, Bahá’u’lláh refers to the night of His birth
stating that this is the night when gates of heaven were opened, doors
of hell were closed, the promised “Hour” struck, all holy days derived

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty
their light and sanctity from this night. He further mentions that the
foundation of idol worshiping was shaken and, every smoldering
bone started to move and the fingers of the Will of God came out of
the robe of Glory and rent asunder the veils of existence. This is the
day when Ancient Beauty established Himself on His everlasting
throne. This is the day in which He “Who neither begets nor
begotten” was born. This is the night when the Most Great Tree was
planted, the Burning Bush in the snow-white Spot, the Land of
unfading splendor, spoke. Towards the end of one the Tablet He says:
“Well is it with a man who submergeth himself in the sea of inner-
meanings from these words thereby attaineth the pearls of knowledge
and wisdom.” The main objective of this paper was to explore the
meaning of some of the expressions used in these Tablets.



NOTES
* The author wishes to acknowledge the invaluable assistance of Nabil
Seddigh in preparation of this paper.
1 Mawlúd is an Arabic word meaning birth.
2 The name of twelve lunar months, in the same order as they appear in the
lunar year, are as follows: Mu˙arram, Ṣafar, Rabí’u’l-Avval, Rabí’u’th-
Thání, Jamádiyu’l-Avval, Jamádiyu’th-Thání, Rajab, Sha’bán, Rama∂án,
Shavval, Dhi’l-Qádih, Dhi’l-Hijjih
3 Bahá’u’lláh says: “All Feasts have attained their consummation in the two
Most Great Festivals, and in the two other Festivals that fall on the twin
days — the first of the Most Great Festivals being those days whereon the
All-Merciful shed upon the whole of creation the effulgent glory of His
most excellent Names and His most exalted Attributes, and the second
being that day on which We raised up the One Who announced unto
mankind the glad tidings of this Name, through which the dead have been
resurrected and all who are in the heavens and on earth have been gathered
together. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Ordainer, the
Omniscient.” [KA, par. 110, 59]
Bahá’u’lláh in: “QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS” says
QUESTION #2: Concerning the Festival of the Twin Birthdays
ANSWER: The Birth of the Abhá Beauty was at the hour of dawn on
the second day of the month of Mu˙arram, the first day of which
marketh the Birth of His Herald. These two days are accounted as one
in the sight of God. [KA 105]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


4 Days of Remembrance, Selections from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh for
Bahá’í Holy Days, published by Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 2016.
5 Qayyúmu’l-Asmá is the name of the commentary of the Báb on the surih of
Joseph of the Quran. He revealed the first chapter of this book on the
night of His declaration to Mullá Óusayn.
6 A.L.M. Nicolas is the son of G.B. Nicolas. Both the father and the son were
diplomats, the former was borne in Iran and learnt the Persian language
well and later on he became a diplomat as well. He has written extensively
about the history of the Bábí Religion and has translated some of the
Writings of the Báb into French.
7 It is revealed in the Qur’án: “.... Say (O Muhammad): My Lord be
Glorified! Am I aught save a mortal Messenger?*And naught prevented
mankind from believing when the guidance came unto them save that they
said: Hath Allah sent a mortal as (His) messenger?” [Asra, 17: 93-94] and
also: “Say: I am only a mortal like you. My Lord inspireth in me that your
Allah is only One Allah” [Surih Kahf 18:110]
8 Bahá’u’lláh says in the Kitáb-i-Badí‘ “... and it is the statement by the Point
of the Bayan, may the souls of all else save Him be a ransom for Him, that
what may prolong the time between the two Revelations is due to the lack
of capacity by the generality of the people; And the Daystar of Truth
after Its setting will be watching His servants. Any time He can locate a
man who has the capacity of hearing the Word of God, He will at that
moment will make him recognize Him and this time will not be delayed by
the ninth of a ninth of the tenth of a tenth of a minute ...” (provisional
translation) [Kitáb-i-Badí‘, page 86]. This is one of the books revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh. It has been published by Bahá’í-Verlag in 2008.
9 Some references to the Day of God from the Bible are as follows:
“I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.
Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all
truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear,
that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come”. [John 16]
“The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the
desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly,
and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be
given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the
glory of the Lord, and the excellency of our God”. [Isaiah 35:1-2]
“Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen
upon thee. shine...: or, be enlightened; for thy light cometh. For,
behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the
people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen
upon thee.” [Isaiah 60:1-2]
“And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with
songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and
gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.” [Isaiah 25:10]

Countenance of the Blessed Beauty


“And he said, The Lord will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from
Jerusalem; and the habitations of the shepherds shall mourn, and the
top of Carmel shall wither.” [Amos 1:2]
“Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: and because I will do this
unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.
For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and
declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning
darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord, The
God of hosts, is his name” [Amos 4:12-13]
“And the Lord shall utter his voice before his army: for his camp is very
great: for he is strong that executeth his word: for the day of the Lord
is great and very terrible; and who can abide it?
Therefore also now, saith the Lord, turn ye even to me with all your heart,
and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning.” [Joel 2:11-12]
“Alas! for that day is great, so that none is like it: it is even the time of
Jacob’s trouble; but he shall be saved out of it.
For it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord of hosts, that I will
break his yoke from off thy neck, and will burst thy bonds, and
strangers shall no more serve themselves of him:
But they shall serve the Lord their God” [Jeremiah 30:7-9]
10 In the Qur’án it says: “They indeed are losers who deny their meeting with
Allah until, when the Hour cometh on them suddenly, they cry: Alas for
us, that we neglected it! They bear upon their backs their burdens. Ah, evil
is that which they bear!” [Surih Al Anam 6:31, also in: 2: 120, 10:7, 18:110,
25:21, 32:10
11 The attribute of “qayyum” meaning self-subsisting or eternal appears three
times in the Qur’án and in all three cases it appears with “Hayy” meaning
live, alive or living. One of the three cases appears as follows: “Allah!
There is no God save Him, the Alive, the Eternal.” [Surih Al-E-Imran 3:2]
12 Rama∂án is the ninth month in the lunar calendar; many devout Muslims
all over the world observe fasting in this month according to the rules set
in their religion. The Qur’án states that the Book was revealed in this month.
13 In the surih of the Cow (Baqara) in the Qur’án, it says: “The month of
Ramadan in which was revealed the Qur'an, a guidance for mankind, and
clear proofs of the guidance ...” (Surah of Al-Baqara 2:185) Also in Surih
Qadr which is 97th surih of the Quran, it has five verses and talks about
the night of power Laylatu'l-Qadr: “We revealed it on the Night of Power.
*Ah, what will convey unto thee what the Night of Power is! * The Night
of Power is better than a thousand months. The angels and the Spirit
descend therein, by the permission of their Lord, with all decrees. (The
night is) Peace until the rising of the dawn.” [Surih Al-Qadr 97:1-5]

Lights of Irfán vol. 19


14 Although the world “night of power” has appeared in the Qur’án, it is not
stated which it is. However, it states that the Qur’án was revealed in night
of power and in another verse says it was revealed in the month of
Rama∂án. Therefore, the month that the “night of power” falls in it is
known but not the particular day of the month. Those who have written
extensive commentaries on the Qur’án, on the basis of the existing
Óadíth, have given conflicting opinions about the particular date. It is of
little value to discuss such opinions. One thing which should be stressed
here is that Muslims all over the world have high regard for the “night of
power” and consider it the most revered day/night of the year and as it is
stated in the verse of the Qur’án it is better than one thousand months.
15 Óadíth is verbal expressions of the Prophet Mu˙ammad among Sunni
Muslims; Shí’ah also have added the verbal expressions of the Imáms to
this. These verbal expressions have been passed orally from one
generation to another, then after the lapse of several centuries they have
been recorded. Not all such traditions are reliable. Those who write
commentaries on the Qur’án rely heavily on such body of knowledge
which at times contains completely false information.
16 Refer to the note number 13, the verse from the Qur’án in which states in
the night of power angles come down: Surih Al-Qadr 97:1-5.
17 The word “Jibt” appears only once in Qur’án in surihs of Nisa: Hast thou
not seen those unto whom a portion of the Scripture hath been given,
how they believe in idols(Jibt) and false deities, and how they say of those
(idolaters) who disbelieve: “These are more rightly guided than those who
believe”? [An-Nisa 4:51]
Also, refer to the note #45, p. 224, of the book Days of Remembrance.
18 The name of the three idols in Surih of Najm out of which two of them
have been mentioned in the Tablet: “Have ye thought upon Al-Lat and Al-
'Uzza and Manat, the third, the other?” [Surih An-Najm 53:19-20]
19 The Surih of Ikhlas (Tawhid) in the Qur’án (Tawhid) states: “He is Allah,
the One! Allah, the eternally Besought of all! He begetteth not nor was
begotten. And there is none comparable unto Him.” [Surih Al-Ikhlas 112]
20 The following verse from the Qur’án revealed after heavy casualties in one
of the Jihad of the believers. In the following verse it says that
Muhammad has been lenient with the believers otherwise they would have
scattered away from him and leaving him alone: “It was by the mercy of
Allah that thou wast lenient with them (O Muhammad), for if thou hadst
been stern and fierce of heart they would have dispersed from round
about thee. So pardon them and ask forgiveness for them ....” [Surih Al-E-
Imran 3:159]

End of Days
Moshe Sharon
The End of Days, namely the end of current history and the start
of messianic times, when a divinely inspired, and guided holy leader
will come to the world to initiate an eternal era of bliss, has occupied
humanity to this very day. The ultimate redeemer, whose Biblical
designation “Messiah” entered both Christianity and Islam, is known
by various other names in religions not influenced by the Bible. The
word “messiah”, the anointed (“mashiya˙” in Hebrew), describes the
redeemer, consecrated by being anointed with holy oil in the same
way that any person (e.g. priest) or object is consecrated. The Greek
translation of the term is Christos, Christ, and this term is sometimes
used instead, together, or separate from, the messiah. In Arabic the
term masí˙ is used specifically to denote Jesus of Nazareth who is
regarded in Islam to be a prophet whose birth from his mother Mary
was caused by divine intervention (“...His word that he committed to
Mary and a spirit from Him” [Q 4:171]).
In Christianity the duration of the blissful messianic times
beginning with the “second coming” of Jesus is one thousand years,
for which Christianity yearns, and for that matter, Christians add, the
entire humanity should yearn for. In Judaism, it is the Messiah, the
anointed one, the son of David who will finally bring ultimate
freedom from bondage and exile to the Jewish people, and will re-
establish the perfect kingdom of God in their holy land. For the Jews,
the redemption is very well defined: it is finally the end of their
suffering, it is the renewal of their independence and their freedom
from persecution and physical destruction. In many ways, the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
universal redeemer for the Christianity and Islam is for the Jews a
national savior, and an actual human king belonging to the sacred
dynasty of David. In Islam, the mahdí, whether Sunní or Shíʿite, with
all the differences between them, will come like the others at the end
of days, to fill the world with justice, replacing the evil and injustice
with which it is filled nowadays. The Sunnís, of course regard the
mahdí, the one supported and directed by G-d, in whose time, and as
the outcome of whose activity the whole world will follow the true
religion, namely Islam, Sunní Islam.
The Shíʿites are more specific as far as the identity of the mahdí is
concerned. Unlike the Sunna, the Shíʿite mahdí is still alive, he is the
twelfth imám, who until his reappearance to fulfill his major
function, is hidden in the mystery of his “greater occultation.” But
when he appears he also will fill the world with justice and bring it
under God’s true religion, presumably Islam in its Shíʿite version.
Jesus also plays a role in the drama of the end of days according to
Islam, mainly in its Sunní version. He also appears at the end of days
next to, or with, the mahdí, mainly to clear the world of the major
opponent of the mahdí, the Dajjál, the false messiah, the Anti-Christ.
In all three or four versions of the apocalypse of the End of Days, the
appearance of the ultimate redeemer is connected with the final
battle between the forces of evil and those of righteousness. This
battle, which assumes different names and takes place at various sites
in the Holy Land, ending with the victory of the good side over the
evil one, must precede messianic times. [See in Detail N. Cohn, The
pursuit of the Millennium, London [1962], pp. 1-21 and throughout the book.]
Observing that the world is full of evil, and yearning for its
redemption, religious thinkers were induced to look for clues in the
scriptures, and transmitted tradition in order to calculate the exact
era of messianic times. Each one of the religions mentioned above,
Jewish, Christian and Islamic, tried to calculate the time of the
arrival of as-sáʿah — the “Hour” if we use the Arabic-Islamic term;
a˙arithayamím — the “End of Days,” or yemothamashiya˙ — “The
Days of the messiah” or just haketz — “The End,” in Hebrew, if we
use the Jewish term. Similarly “the Millennium,” and the “Second
advent” used in the Christian eschatology [ibid, pp. 13f.]. The search
was for two different signs foretelling the approach of the final
redemption. One related to its circumstances — unusual occurrences

End of Days
or major events of colossal magnitude including moral corruption;
the second was the actual mathematical calculation of the exact date
in which the messianic age should be expected.
It is interesting that these calculations, somehow, led those who
were engaged in them to reach the conclusion that their calculations
pointed to their own time as the time of redemption, the messianic
era and the time of the appearance of God’s revealed, guided,
inspired and even manifested, promised one. William Miller, for
instance, fixed the end of 1843 and the beginning of 1844 as the date
of Jesus’ second coming. In Judaism there were such calculations,
mostly in times of great stress and persecution. Each such calculation
ended with disappointment. Some Talmudic scholars tried to stop the
repeated exercise of the “calculation of the End” and the activities of
“calculators of the End” (mehashevekitzin) by bringing proofs that
“the Holy One blessed be He will not renew his world before 5000 or
7000 years (have passed since creation)” [BT, Sanhedrin 97b]. However,
some scholars want to be more specific. An old document in Hebrew,
they said, was found in the Roman archives, in which it was stated
that ”the world will come to an end 4291 years after the creation”
[ibid.]. In Sunni Islam, the calculation of the End is described in great
detail in the hadith, and is based on the division of Islamic history
into two cycles (dawlah): a short one of one hundred years and a long
one of an unspecified period. The short one is based on a ˙adíth that
states that Gods sends a “renewer” at the beginning of every century
to revive the collapsing Islam.” At the beginning of each century,
Allah will send to this nation someone to renew its religion: inna allah
sayabʿathiláhádhihi al-umma, ‘ala raʾs kull qarn man yujaddidlahá
dínaha. The second indication of the end of days, or the “Hour” in
Sunní Islam is not connected with a date but with some major event,
which will initiate the period of wars preceding the final redemption.
In Judaism, “the calculators of the end” based their calculations
on the Book of Daniel, chapters 7, 9 and 12, where the cryptic
language, and the no less cryptic numbers, have excited and
challenged these calculators. They have been attracting them to the
present day. Already in the early third century, Talmudic scholars
attempted to stop the practice of apocalyptic calculations because
they felt that they involved disappointment on the one hand, and
hasty activity such as attempting revolt, which ended usually with

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
national disaster. The irresponsibility of such calculations could also
lead to blasphemy. For if according to the calculators the Messiah
was to come at a certain date, and he did not come then some people
could conclude that he would never come, which would be a denial of
one of the articles of faith — the belief in the coming of the Messiah.
In the language of the Talmud: “Accursed are the calculators of the
End for they used to say: since the End has come (according to the
calculations) and he (the Messiah) has not come, it follows that he
will not come.” This negates the obligation to say, “even if he tarries,
I shall wait for him” [ibid.].
However, in institutionalized Judaism, Christianity and Islam, it is
generally believed that since the true redeemer has not yet come; there
is no need, therefore, to prove the authenticity of anyone who claims
to be the promised one. Yet, in more than one case in modern times,
there appeared claimants to messianic status who created a need for
such proofs, namely objective sources proving such claims beyond
doubt. The proofs are needed mainly to ward off the attacks of
opponents, but they also help to strengthen the faith of believers.
One of such cases is that of the Mormon religion in which the claim
of Joseph Smith was supported by the mysterious gold plates that
only he could read and translate. It was the testimony of eleven
people who vowed that they had seen the tablets with their own eyes
that established their existence, and therefore firmly supported the
claim of Joseph Smith’s prophecy, which led to the foundation of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [see “Testimony of three and
eight witnesses,” Book of Mormon].
The case of the Bábí-Bahá’í faiths is particularly significant in this
regard. A few proofs were needed to confirm the claims of the Báb
and then Bahá’u’lláh. Both claimed to have been prophets and the
manifestations of God. During their lifetime, their claims were based
on, and reinforced by, their personalities, writings and sayings. In the
case of the Báb, at least, there were also the circumstances of his
appearance. The Báb put his claim forward on a very significant date
for the Shíʿah, in the year of 1260 of the Hijrah, a thousand years
after the disappearance of the 12th imám, the hidden mahdí. Towards
the year 1260 AH, and particularly during this exact year, the
Messianic expectations in the Shíʿah soared high, and the Báb could
well present himself as a Ṣá˙ibaz-Zamán, the master of time. The

End of Days
proof that he was indeed divinely inspired was put forward when he
wrote in Arabic a mystical interpretation of the Súrat Yúsuf, the 12th
Súrah of the Qurʾán, right in front of the amazed eyes of Óusayn
Bushrúʾí, who became his first disciple.
The short ministry of the Báb needed no external, independent
proofs. His writings were the best proof, particularly the Bayán, his
major opus. His recognition as a Sayyid, namely the acceptance of his
genealogy as the descendent of the Prophet, and particularly his
imprisonment far away from his disciples which conferred on him the
aura of mystical occultation (ghaybah) reserved until then only for
the Hidden Mahdí, added to the establishment of his claim to
mahdíhood, and to even more.
Bahá’u’lláh openly claimed to be the manifestation of God, and
the promised one of all ages and all creeds. During his lifetime he had
no need for external proofs, his charismatic personality, his prophetic
writings, and his firm claim for divine station were sufficient to
secure this status. After he passed away, however, Abdu’l-Bahá’, his
son and heir, felt that in spite of the fact that a growing Bahá’í
community worshiped his father, it was still necessary to delve into
the former scriptures, and look for the proofs for his claim. Like
calculators of the End before him (including William Miller) he
concluded that the best proof could be the one that would show the
correlation between the dates of the revelations of the Báb and of
Bahá’u’lláh, and the dates found in the cryptic prophecy of Daniel.
The Qur’án could also be used for that matter, through the
interpretation of some verses, but the Book of Daniel is a different
matter. If one could work out mathematically the meaning of
Daniel’s numbers, that would be a “scientific” proof for the claim of
prophecy.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ was no doubt familiar with the correlation between
Arabic letters and their numerical value. The heart of the faith
created by the Báb and his father was established on such
correlations. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’, using the numbers in Daniel 9:24 proves
that Daniel prophesized the martyrdom and ascendance of Christ
[SAQ, 40-45]. We have to note in passing that the calculations of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ were based on wrong translation of a verse in Numbers
14:34, which has nothing to do with “The day of the Lord is one
year”. This does not appear anywhere in the Bible. What appears in

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
the Bible is that the day of the Lord is a thousand years [Ps. 90:4, “For a
thousand years in Thy sight are but as yesterday when it is passed”]. However,
there are other sources to support the notion that one day could
mean one year. At any rate, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ introduces the supposed
prophecy about Christ only as an introduction to Daniel’s prophecy
about the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh: “Now that the manifestation of Christ
has been proved by the prophecies of Daniel, let us prove the
manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb” [ibid].
By a simple arithmetic exercise, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ shows that Daniel
prophesized the appearance of the Báb in 1844. The cryptic verse in
Daniel
8:14,
which
in
the
original
Hebrew
says:
וַיּ ֹאמֶראֵלַיעַדעֶרֶ בבּ ֹקֶראַלְפַּיִםוּשְֹׁלשׁמֵאוֹתוְנִצְדַּקקֹדֶשׁ:
” And he said unto me: Unto
two thousand and three hundred [days] then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed” [Translation: Authorized King James Version]. The Arabic
translation (published in Beirut, December 1880) which ʿAbdu’l-Bahá
must have consulted reads:
َﻓَﻘَﺎل
ِﱄ
ِإِﻟﯩَﺄَﻟْﻔَﻴْﻨِﻮَﺛﻼث
ٍﻣﺌﺔِﻣﺴﺂء
ٍوﺻﺒﺎح
ﺛُﻢﱠ
ُﻳُﻄَﻬﱠﺮ
ِاﻟْﻘُﺪْس. This is interpreted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ to mean that in 2300
years, “the sanctuary will be cleansed,” namely that will be the time of
the “dawn of the Manifestation”. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ then makes the
following calculation: From the time of the edict of Artaxerxes to
rebuild Jerusalem until the birth of Christ there were 456 years, and
the Báb appeared in 1844. Adding these two numbers (1844+456) and
you get 2300. (Artaxerxes’ rule began in 465 BC, and the permission
to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem was issued by the King to Nehemiah
as late as summer 445BC.JE, 2:146)
Daniel’s cryptic verse probably means 2300 days, which, in Biblical
terms could also mean years. (ם יוֹ day, and
ָי ִים מ days, in the plural,
mean both a day and a year). Otherwise, as we have just seen, based
on Ps. 90, yom (day), would be a thousand years and this surely is not
the interpretation of Daniel in this verse. Daniel, therefore,
according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s calculations prophesized the “dawn of
the Manifestation of the Báb” [SAQ, 42]. One note should be added
here; the Septuagint Greek translation of the Bible says clearly “two
thousand three hundred days.” (The word “days” does not appear in
the original Hebrew text, but it is implied by the usage of “evening
and morning” which was translated correctly into Arabic.)
Incidentally, William Miller used the text of Daniel to prove that the
Second Advent will take place in 1844.

End of Days
Once Abdu’l-Bahá’ established the manifestation of the Báb by
Daniel’s prophecy, he used the same source to prove the
Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh. For this purpose, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’
changed calendar, and based his proof on the Islamic one instead of
the Christian one, which he just used to prove the manifestation of
the Báb. In Chapter 12: 11, Daniel mentions twelve hundred and
ninety years “from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken
away and the abomination that maketh desolute set up...” This is a
very cryptic verse too. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ was not interested in the “daily
sacrifice” nor the “abomination that maketh desolute” (
ִוּקּש ֹץ ש ֵםמin
Hebrew). Only the number 1290 interested him for proof. With no
effort he shows that 1290 lunar years had elapsed from the
announcement of Muhammad’s prophecy, ten years before the
Hijrah, until the announcement of Bahá’u’lláh of his prophecy and
manifestation in 1280 AH, namely in 1863, at the Garden of Ri∂wán.
The obscure text of Daniel and its cryptic numbers allowed
”Calculators of the End” throughout the ages to find in them almost
anything they wanted. Here ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ goes as far as attributing
to Daniel full knowledge of both the Hijrah and the Christian
calendars(in the 2nd century BC), calculating of the appearance of the
Báb using the Christian calendar and placing the birth of Christ in the
centre of his calculation, an event of no significance for the Jews.
On the Jewish side and about the same time, the number 1290 was
used in a short treatise by Joseph ben ‘Uliel (1858-1937), a rabbi who
was born in Morocco, was a professor of Roman languages at the
University of Lisbon, and the consul of Morocco in Portugal. In 1917
he wrote his “Five Statements of Daniel on the Redemption” ( חמישה
מאמרי דניאל על הגאולה). He regarded the year 1917, or 5677 of the
Jewish calendar, as the year of global redemption, but particularly the
long awaited redemption of Israel. According to his calculation, all
the numbers in Daniel’s prophecies lead to the same conclusion –that
the Hebrew year 5677 definitely signifies Messianic times. He goes so
far as to suggest that the number 1335 in Daniel 12:12, “Blessed be he
that waiteth and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and
thirty days,” refers to the Hijrah year equivalent to 1917 CE. “It is
possible that this number hints to the date counted by the
Mohammedans, the rulers of the Holy Land, from then until now,
which comes to one thousand three hundred and thirty five.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Abdu’l-Bahá by the way does not refer to this number. [For an
interesting Christian interpretation of the same date see The New Scofield
Reference Bible, Daniel 12:12, note 3.] Ben ‘Uliel, however, does refer to
1290 which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ calculates as the time from the
proclamation of Mohammad’s mission until the proclamation of
Bahá’u’lláh in 1280 AH (1863). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ does not refer to the
whole verse in Daniel 12:11, which speaks about 1290 (days/years)
which will elapse from “the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken
away and the abomination that maketh desolate set up.” For Ben
‘Uliel this entire verse is important for establishing his calculation
based on the general, not the Muslim calendar. This verse mentions
two events — the taking away of the daily sacrifice (in the Temple)
and the setting up of the destructive “abomination.” In between the
two, he adds the destruction of the Temple, about ten years after the
abolition of the sacrifice. The “abomination that maketh desolate”
according to his understanding, is the mosque built by caliph ‘Umar
on the Temple Mount (meaning the Dome of the rock which was built
over the site, that is generally regarded as the location of the Holy of
Holies in the Temple.). This took place, he says, in 637 when ‘Umar
conquered Jerusalem. Now the calculation up to 1290 adds up as
follows:
From the abolition of the daily sacrifice to the destruction of
the Temple: 10 years
From the conquest of Jerusalem by ʿUmar until Ben ‘Uliel’s
present: 1280 years
In this way, says Ben ‘Uliel, Daniel’s verse points directly to 1917
(1280 + 637), his own time, interpreting the whole verse rather than
only using the number 1290. I quoted Ben ‘Uliel to show that the
Book of Daniel can be easily manipulated to serve the needs of the
user. It is, however, interesting that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ turns to the Bible
when searching for proofs from a sacred text. For the Western
faithful, this has been surely convincing.
Until now I have not dealt with the involvement of the Bahá’í
Jews in supplying proofs for the validation of the manifestation of
Bahá’u’lláh. A very interesting manuscript, which came to my
attention some time ago, triggered the present discussion.

End of Days
The manuscript is a one page document in Hebrew, Judeo Arabic
and Aramaic. It surfaced in the antiquities market in Jerusalem. Its
owner, an antique dealer, demanded for it an exorbitant price. Since
the document is still in his possession, I cannot publish it. I was able
to make, however, a copy of it. The writer of this document is a
Jewish convert to the Bahá’í faith who brings proofs that the actual
name Bahá’u’lláh is no less than the representation of the most secret,
the most holy name of the Lord in Hebrew consisting of the four
letters, the tetragrammaton, which no Jew is allowed to pronounce.
The true vowels of this sacred name has been intentionally obscured
to prevent its exact pronunciation. Instead the vowels of the word
Adonai (“my Lord”) was attached to the four consonants of the
Lord’s name creating a bizarre meaningless combination. The usage in
western languages of the pronunciation “Jehovah” or “Yahweh” is
based on these purposefully confusing vowels. Even the writing of
the four consonants outside the realm of sacred writing is not
allowed. In post-Biblical literature we are told that only the high
priest could pronounce the name of the Lord in its correct form, and
only on the Day of Atonement and only next to the holiest place in
the Temple.
In this document, the Jewish writer has no such restrictions.
Bahá’u’lláh is the Lord in his most majestic, secret and mystical name
Y-H-W-H. The document begins with the four letters, the
tetragrammaton, and under these letters we read בהא
אל
אבהי which is
the exact transliteration of the Arabicﺑﮭﺎ اﻷﺑﮭﻰ. The article al in
Hebrew is written in small letters above the text; the real name
should accordingly be read without the article, Bahá Abhá in Arabic
ﺑﮭﺎ أﺑﮭﻰ. The numerical value of these letters (2+5+1+1+2+5+10)
is 26, which is the exact numerical value of the tetragrammaton
(10+5+6+5=26). In other words בהא אבהי (note that אבהי is the exact
transliteration of the Arabic) is י ה ו ה. For a Jew this is no less than
pure impudent blasphemy. Following this we read:
ב רוך
ה א בא ה ו ה י דני “Welcome Adonai (the Lord) Y-H-W-H.”
The four letters beginning the four Hebrew words create the
acronym בהאי — Bahai. The same is repeated at the end of the
document where this acronym is specified.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The text then continues in Judeo-Arabic and Aramaic written in
Hebrew letters: ha bisharat hadrati rabbina wa moshí’ ana bahá
elohayah. This is the good tidings of our Lord and Saviour Bahá
(splendor) of God. The word Saviour is in Hebrew with the Arabic
possessive ending in the plural. Instead of al-Abhá which in the
Arabic means the “most glorious”, “most splendid” referring to God
and to Bahá’u’lláh in the designation “Bahá’ al-Abhá” — the glorious
of the most glorious, the Hebrew/Aramaic text has the word
elohayah — God, and the combination for Bahá’u’lláh — The splendor
of God (bahá elohayah). This one sentence is a statement repeating
the idea which defines Bahá’u’lláh as both the Lord and the Saviour.
The usage of the Hebrew moshiyaʿ to denote “saviour” is
important, for it comes from the list of the adjectival appellations of
the God of Israel, defined in the first Benediction of the daily
“Eighteen Benedictions Prayer” as

.מלך עוזר
ומושיע
ומגן
The word
moshiyaʿ (Gr. σωτὲρ) indicates the exalted divine station of
Bahá’u’lláh in his capacity as the ultimate Savior. He is described in
terms saved for God Himself: “A Helper King, Saviour and
Protector.” The text moves to Aramaic quoting the qaddish prayer:
yehesh mehrabbahmeborakhle’alam we-’alme‘almayah.” May His
Great Name (in the original the Lord’s, but here could well mean
Bahá’u’lláh) be blessed forever and ever.” The text continues in
Hebrew: bishnat shalosh‘esrim malkhut Náßir-al Dín Sháh Melekh
Paras ...etc.
“In the year twenty three of the rule of Nasir ad Din Shah, the
King of Persia, concerning the vision of Daniel, fulfilling his
prophecy” (12:11]. “And from the time that the daily sacrifices shall
be taken away and the abomination that maketh desolate set up one
thousand two hundred and ninety days; every day is a year from the
Caliphate of ‘Umar until now and this is in the year 5633 (=1873) of
the creation)”. The year 1290 AH is 1873 corresponding to 5633 of
the Creation, which the writer identifies as “now”. However, 23 years
of the rule of Náßir ad-Dín Sháh is not 1873 but 1871. This date
cannot be explained, but could well be a mistake. This date 1873
however is very important for the writer, as we shall soon see.
Here, just as in the calculations of Ben ‘Uliel, we read the name of
‘Umar. Ben Uliel identified “the abomination that maketh desolate” in
Daniel’s prophecy, as the mosque of ‘Umar, and it seems that here

End of Days
also ‘Umar’s Caliphate in general could well be the “abomination.” If
one takes into consideration that for the Shí‘ah ‘Umar is probably the
most hated figure in the entire Islamic history, this hatred filtered
through into the Bábí and Bahá’í thought, and found its way to
occupy the place of the “abomination” in Daniel’s vision. One thing
seems sure, the 1290 date in this document is not the period of time
that elapsed from the time of ‘Umar’s Caliphate but of the time from
the Hijrah. It is only thus that we arrive at 5633 corresponding to
1873 the accepted date of the writing of al-Kitáb al-Aqdas. Unless
there is a mistake in the dating. The text that follows says:
The majesty of the Divine presence (or the Being) shone and
blazed; the light of ‘I am that I am’ glittered, rising, when the
mighty and awful God became jealous for the shrine of Zion
in the tower of Akko. ‘Look upon Zion, the city of our
solemnities etc. [Thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet
habitation a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one
of its stakes shall ever be removed neither shall any of its
cords be broken. [Isaiah 33:20]’.]
In the document, “etc.” is written after ‘solemnities’ leaving the
continuation of the very well-known verse (continued here in square
brackets) to the reader. In this part the writer describes the
appearance of Bahá’u’lláh as ‘rising light’ and his imprisonment in the
fortress (“tower”) of ‘Akko as the time when he had the vision of the
revival of Jerusalem and the “shrine of Zion” (
)היכל אלציונא. The
language is basically Hebrew to with the Arabic article (“al”) added.
For the glitter of light of the new manifestation, the writer uses the
Hebrew wordsאור אל אהיהthe light of God Ehyeh, the word by which
God defined himself to Moses: “I AM” [Exodus 3:14]. The
manifestation is defined by the Hebrew כבוד אלהויה the Majesty of
Being (
)הויה.
In the fortress of Akko the angry God is jealous for the temple of
Zion. This is an interesting interpretation of the redemptive station
of Bahá’u’lláh as an angry god for Zion, and its saviour. In this way,
he fulfills the role of the Jewish Messiah who redeems Zion, and heals
its wounds. The following paragraph in the text moves again to deal
with yet another date connected with the time of redemption:

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Blessed is he who waits and reaches the days of one thousand,
three hundred and thirty five days — each day means a year
()הימים לשנה. Until now (Aramaic:
) ְכּ ָען he revealed the year
5675 as the [time of] redemption according to the full
calendar.
(In the textלפ”ק—

acronym: “according to the lesser calendar
system” namely without the figure of thousands, but it should be
לפ”ג, acronym: “according to the full calendar” system including the
reckoning of the thousands as we have it in the text. Without the
thousands, the date is 675, but the text explicitly gives the full date
with the thousands that is to say 5675.
This is a difficult part. 5675 corresponds to 1915, the middle of
the First World War. The writer uses the Aramaic כען meaning “now,
at this time,” to denote the time of redemption. However it is
possible that he means that the year 1335 of the Hijrah which
corresponds to 1917 is the awaited date of the redemption which is
expected already in 1915 (5675). This brings us back to the
calculations of Ben ‘Uliel from Lisbon who in his own way calculated
that the redemption would occur in 1280 after ‘Umar’s conquest of
Jerusalem (1280 + 637 = 1917). The combination of General Allenby’s
conquest of Jerusalem in 1917, and the Balfour Declaration in the
same year obviously had the qualities of redemption for the Jewish
rabbi, professor and a consul at Lisbon, as well as for our obscure
writer, who at this point breaks into exaltation with the verse of
Isaiah 52:7: “How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him
that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that bringeth good
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation, that sayeth unto Zion: Thy
God reigneth!” This verse is used by Christians to mean Jesus and by
Bahá’ís to mean Bahá’u’lláh.
Following this, the writer finishes the happy part of the text by
quoting a verse from a religious hymn sung by the Jews on the
conclusion of Sabbath (Saturday night). Only a Jew could have
thought of including this verse in a text dedicated to Bahá’u’lláh in
his capacity of the harbinger of the redemption of Zion and his
coronation, according to Isaiah, as her king. The harbinger could be
Bahá’u’lláh but it could also be the Báb proclaiming the ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh to the throne of Zion.

End of Days
In Jewish tradition, the herald of the Messiah is the zealot prophet
Elijah. He will precede the coming of the Messiah, preparing the way
for him. It is not surprising that the Báb is represented as Elijah. In
Jewish tradition Elijah, who destroyed the priests of the Phoenician
god Ba’al out of jealousy for the God of Israel is likened to the priest
Phineas who is described in the Bible as the ultimate zealot. In reward
for his jealousy, God says: “I give to him my covenant of peace”
[Numbers 25:12]. Of course, it is Moses who brought the divine
promise to Phineas, who reappeared, many generations later, as
Elijah. This idea is conveyed in the hymn sung at the end of the
Sabbath the first verses of which run as follows:
Elijah the Prophet, Elijah the Tishbite, Elijah the Gileadean:
Let him come quickly to us with the messiah, the son of
David.
He is a man who was jealous for the name of God; He is a man
who received the good tidings of peace by Yekutiel.
Yekutiel is another name of Moses in Jewish tradition. Only a Jew
who kept the Sabbath and was well acquainted with the ritual at its
conclusion could quote the verses of this hymn, which refer to the
Messianic ideas of this document. This in fact could be the end of the
document but the writer finishes by emphasizing yet again the divine
station of Bahá’u’lláh. For in this hymn the Báb who is Elijah, and
beforehand Phineas, was chosen to receive the good tidings by no less
than Moses himself. However the text continues with going back to
the holy tetragrammaton. Y-H-W-H, he says, is Bahá’u’lláh in
gematry, as we saw above. The acronym “Welcome the Lord Y-H-W-
H” in Hebrewאדוניי ה ו ה הבא ברוך (which we met at the very
beginning of the document), gives us the word בהאי –Bahá’í. The text
mentions the reference to Daniel 12:11-12, which we dealt with
above, and is used here towards the end of the document as a
reminder. It ends with a sentence in Aramaic: “It came from the Holy
Torah to the people of the world, from the vision of the later
prophets who brought the good tidings of Oneness.” The meaning of
this sentence is more or less clear. The message of Divine unity,
brought to the world in general, is found in the Holy Torah and the
prophecies of the later prophets meaning, most probably one
prophet, Daniel, to whom the reference is supplied. Above of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
words “vision of the later prophets” the writer inserted two words
“visions that bring good tidings” correcting the language of the text
under them.
Summary
The Calculation of the End in the anonymous document presented
here refers to the same dates used by Ben ‘Uliel and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. All
three documents refer to the date of a number of years in the esoteric
prophecies in the Book of Daniel. The main number is 1290 which
appears in the last chapter of the book, chapter 12 verses 11-12.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, regards it to refer to the time that elapsed from the
public proclamation of Mo˙ammad’s mission, ten years before the
hijrah. If we detract 10 years from 1290, we are left with the 1280
years that have elapsed since the hijrah, which corresponds to 1863
CE, the year of Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamation at Ri∂wán.
Ben ‘Uliel refers to the whole verse (12:11) and also detracts 10
years from 1290 — the time that elapsed from the abolishment of the
daily sacrifice to the destruction of the Temple. According to him the
“abomination” mentioned by Daniel refers to the mosque, which was
built by Umar in 637.
The calculation in the anonymous document is similar to Ben
Uliel’s although the interpretation is none too clear. However, in this
document the important parts are dedicated to proving the divinity
of Bahá’u’lláh using combinations of letters which demonstrate that
the name Bahá’u’lláh is no less than the revered, mystical and great
name of the Lord.

Elucidations
1. Bahá’í Fast
a compilation1
Part I: Descriptive
Were the mouth of Thy will to address them saying:
“Observe, for My Beauty's sake, the fast, O people, and set
no limit to its duration,” I swear by the majesty of Thy glory,
that every one of them will faithfully observe it, will abstain
from whatsoever will violate Thy law, and will continue to do
so until they yield up their souls unto Thee, for they have
tasted the sweetness of Thy call, and become inebriated with
Thy remembrance and praise and with the words proceeding
from the lips of Thy command. — Bahá’u’lláh
Brief excerpts from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh wherein He is
speaking explicitly of the Fast.
(The headings and numbering below are arbitrary,
and have been added for reference.)
Descriptive of the Fast
1. “We have commanded you to pray and fast...”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
2. “...this is ordained by God...”
3. “We have enjoined upon you fasting...”
4. “...during a brief period...”
5. “...the season of restraint...”
6. “...this grace that is appointed in the Book.”
7. “In truth, I say that obligatory prayer and fasting occupy an
exalted station in the sight of God.”
8. “It is, however, in a state of health that their virtue can be
realized.”
9. “...a service due to God...” [Bahá’u’lláh expands a statement of
Muhammad to include fasting.]
10. “Fasting is illumination, prayer is light.” [Bahá’u’lláh
corroborates a saying or tradition.]
11. “...We are the Fast...” [Bahá’u’lláh quotes Imam Ja’far Sadiq, the
sixth Shi’ih Imam. (83-148 A.H.)]
12. “...the ornament of the fast prescribed by Thee...”
13. “...Thou didst enjoin Thy servants to observe the fast.”
14. “With it Thou didst adorn the preamble of the Book of Thy
Laws revealed unto Thy creatures...”
15. “...and didst deck forth the Repositories of Thy commandments
in the sight of all who are in Thy heaven and all who are on Thy
earth.”
16. “Thou hast endowed every hour of these days with a special
virtue, inscrutable to all except Thee...”
17. “Thou hast, also, assigned unto every soul a portion of this
virtue...”
18. “Fasting and obligatory prayer are as two wings to man's life.”
19. “Verily, the religion of God is like unto heaven; fasting is its
sun, and obligatory prayer is its moon. In truth, they are the

The Bahá’í Fast
pillars of religion whereby the righteous are distinguished from
those who transgress His commandments.”
20. “...that which He hath revealed in His Ancient Book.”
21. “Know thou that religion is as heaven; and fasting and
obligatory prayer are its sun and its moon.”
22. “...that which they have been commanded in this Day.”
23. “...in accordance with His good-pleasure.”
24. “Fasting hath been decreed for you in the month of Ala.”
25. “Thus doth the Beloved of mankind instruct you as bidden by
God, the All-Powerful, the Unconstrained.”
26. “We, verily, have commanded all to observe the Fast in these
days as a bounty on Our part...”
27. “Say: By God! His Law is a fortress unto you, could ye but
understand.”
28. “Even though outwardly the Fast is difficult and toilsome, yet
inwardly it is bounty and tranquillity.”
29. “Whatsoever God hath revealed is beloved of the soul.”
30. “...that which is pleasing and acceptable unto Him.”
31. “The law of the Fast is ordained for those who are sound and
healthy...”
32. “The days of fasting have arrived wherein those servants who
circle round Thy throne and have attained Thy presence have
fasted.”
33. “These are the days whereon Thou hast enjoined Thy chosen
ones, Thy loved ones and Thy servants to observe the Fast,
which Thou hast made a light unto the people of Thy
Kingdom...”
34. “Since they are turning to the court of Thy good-pleasure, all
their days are days of fasting.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Brief excerpts from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh wherein
He is speaking explicitly of the Fast
(The headings and numbering below are arbitrary,
and have been added for reference.)
Part II: Purposes of the Fast
1. “...that the fire of Thy love and the heat produced by the fast
enjoined by Thee may inflame them in Thy Cause...”
2. “...and make them to be occupied with Thy praise and with
remembrance of Thee.”
3. “...the ornament of Thine acceptance...”
4. “...that through it they may purify their souls...”
5. “...and rid themselves of all attachment to any one but Thee...”
6. “...and that out of their hearts may ascend that which will be
worthy of the court of Thy majesty and may well beseem the seat
of the revelation of Thy oneness.”
7. “Cleanse Thou by its means the hearts of Thy servants...”
8. “...attaining unto that which Thou didst ordain...”
9. “...cleanse us from the noisome savors of our transgressions.”
10. [We get to ask God such as this:] “Do Thou accept all that we
have done for love of Thee, and for the sake of Thy pleasure,
and all that we have left undone as a result of our subjection to
our evil and corrupt desires.”
11. “...We have ordained obligatory prayer and fasting so that all
may by these means draw nigh unto God, the Most Powerful,
the Well-Beloved.”
12. “...observe that which will draw them nearer unto Him Who is
the Almighty, the All-Loving.”
13. “All praise be unto God, Who hath... enjoined on them the Fast
that those possessed of means may become apprised of the
woes and sufferings of the destitute.”

The Bahá’í Fast
14. “...be acceptable in the sight of God.”
15. “...that which hath been and will be of profit to them.”
16. “Well is it with the one who fulfilleth My decrees...”
17. “Verily, He hath no purpose therein save to benefit the souls of
His servants...”
18. “Blessed is the one who through the heat generated by the Fast
increaseth his love...”
19. “...and who, with joy and radiance, ariseth to perform worthy
deeds.”
20. “Purification and training are conditioned and dependent only
on such rigorous exercises as are in accord with the Book of
God and sanctioned by Divine law, not those which the deluded
have inflicted upon the people.”
21. “Verily, I say, fasting is the supreme remedy and the most great
healing for the disease of self and passion.”
22. “...to fulfill that which hath been decreed in the Book.”
23. “...serveth solely to benefit His friends and loved ones.”
24. “...Thou hast bidden to observe the Fast for the sake of Thy love
and good pleasure...”
25. “There are various stages and stations for the Fast and
innumerable effects and benefits are concealed therein. Well is
it with those who have attained unto them.”
26. “I beg of Thee, O my God, by those who have fasted for love of
Thee and have quaffed the living waters of submission from the
hands of Thy bounty, to ordain for Thy loved ones, who under
the blaze of the orb of Thy trials have clung to the cord of
patience, all the good Thou hast reckoned in Thy Books and
Thy Tablets.”
27. “I beg of Thee, O my God, by these mighty pillars, [fasting and
obligatory prayer] to keep Thy religion safe from the mischief
of the ungodly and the plotting of every wicked doer.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
28. “All glory be to Thee, O my God, for Thou hast graciously
enabled me to fast during this month which Thou hast related
to Thy Name, the Most Exalted, and called Ala (Loftiness).
Thou hast commanded that Thy servants and Thy people should
fast therein and seek thereby to draw nearer unto Thee.”
29. “The days and the months of the year have culminated with the
Fast, even as the first month began with Thy Name, Bahá, that
all might testify that Thou art the First and the Last, the
Manifest and the Hidden...”
30. “...and be well assured that the glory of all names is conferred
only through the glory of Thy Cause and the word expounded
only by Thy will and revealed through Thy purpose.”
31. “Thou hast ordained that this month be a remembrance and
honor from Thee...”
32. “...and a sign of Thy presence among them...”
33. “...that they may not forget Thy grandeur and Thy majesty, Thy
sovereignty and Thy glory...”
34. “...and may be well assured that from time immemorial Thou
hast ever been and wilt ever be Ruler over the entire creation.”
Part III: How To
Since Thou hast adorned them, O my Lord, with the
ornament of the fast prescribed by Thee, do Thou adorn
them also with the ornament of Thine acceptance, through
Thy grace and bountiful favor. For the doings of men are all
dependent upon Thy good-pleasure, and are conditioned by
Thy behest. Shouldst Thou regard him who hath broken the
fast as one who hath observed it, such a man would be
reckoned among them who from eternity had been keeping
the fast. And shouldst Thou decree that he who hath observed
the fast hath broken it, that person would be numbered with
such as have caused the Robe of Thy Revelation to be stained
with dust, and been far removed from the crystal waters of
this living Fountain. — Bahá’u’lláh

The Bahá’í Fast
Brief excerpts from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
wherein He is speaking explicitly of the Fast
(The headings and numbering below are arbitrary,
and have been added for reference.)
How To Fast
1. “...those who have observed the fast for love of Thee...”
2. “I have fasted for love of Thee...”
3. “...and in pursuance of Thine injunction...”
4. “...Thy servants who have turned towards the precincts of Thy
court and the sanctuary of Thy presence, and have observed the
fast for love of Thee.”
5. “For Thine ardent lovers Thou hast, according to Thy decree,
reserved, at each daybreak, the cup of Thy remembrance...”
6. “...they forsake their couches in their longing to celebrate Thy
praise and extol Thy virtues...”
7. “...and flee from sleep in their eagerness to approach Thy
presence and partake of Thy bounty.”
8. “Abstain from food and drink from sunrise to sundown...”
9. “...beware lest desire deprive you of this grace...”
10. “...have broken my fast with Thy praise on my tongue and in
conformity with Thy pleasure.”
11. “...give me to drink of the wine of Thy mercy...”
12. “...and of the pure beverage of Thy favor...”
13. “...that I may so fix my gaze upon Thee and be so detached from
all else but Thee, that the world and all that hath been created
therein may appear before me as a fleeting day which Thou hast
not deigned to create.”
14. “...Cause me to taste, O my Lord, the divine sweetness of Thy
remembrance and praise.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
15. “I beseech Thee to grant that I may be assisted to observe the
fast wholly for Thy sake, O Thou Who art full of majesty and
glory!”
16. “Empower me, then, O my God, to be reckoned among them
that have clung to Thy laws and precepts for the sake of Thee
alone, their eyes fixed on Thy face.”
17. “...whose wine is all that hath proceeded out of the mouth of
Thy primal will, whose pure beverage is Thine enthralling
call...”
18. “Observe ye the commandments of God for love of His
beauty...”
19. “...and be not of those who follow in the ways of the abject and
foolish.”
20. “Cling firmly to obligatory prayer and fasting.”
21. “Blessed be the one who soareth with their aid in the heaven of
the love of God, the Lord of all worlds.”
22. “Be not neglectful of obligatory prayer and fasting.”
23. “...observe the most great and exalted Fast, which is to protect
one's eye from beholding whatever is forbidden...”
24. “...and to withhold one's self from food, drink...
25. “...and whatever is not of Him.”
26. “Fast ye for the sake of your Lord, the Mighty, the Most High.”
27. “...for the love of My Beauty...”
28. “Restrain yourselves from sunrise to sunset.”
29. “Cling ye to the cord of God's laws...”
30. “...him who hath fasted out of love for Thee and for Thy good-
pleasure — and not out of self and desire, nor out of fear of
Thy wrath...”
31. “I beg of Thee by Thy Name, the All-Glorious, to accept the fast
of those who have fasted for love of Thee and for the sake of

The Bahá’í Fast
Thy good-pleasure and have carried out what Thou hast bidden
them in Thy Books and Tablets.”
32. “We have observed the Fast in conformity with Thy bidding and
break it now through Thy love and Thy good-pleasure.”
33. “We have fasted this day, O my Lord, by Thy command and Thy
bidding in accordance with what Thou hast revealed in Thy
perspicuous Book. We have withheld our souls from passion
and from whatsoever Thou abhorrest until the day drew to an
end and the time arrived to break the fast.”
34. [How not to fast:] “How many those who keep the fast in the
daytime, only to protest against the One by Whose very
command the ordinance of the fast was first established!”

“Do not bring our fasts to an end with this fast, O my Lord, nor
the covenants Thou hast made with this covenant.”
The Bahá’í Fast, Additional Insight, Part IV
(The headings and numbering below are arbitrary,
and have been added for reference.)
From the Writings of Abdu’l-Bahá regarding the Fast
1. “Ye had written of the fasting month. Fortunate are ye to have
obeyed the commandment of God, and kept this fast during the
holy season. For this material fast is an outer token of the
spiritual fast; it is a symbol of self-restraint, the withholding of
oneself from all appetites of the self, taking on the
characteristics of the spirit, being carried away by the breathings
of heaven and catching fire from the love of God.”
2. “The laws of God, such as fasting, obligatory prayer and the like,
as well as His counsels regarding virtues, good deeds and proper
conduct, must be carried out everywhere to the extent possible,
unless some insurmountable obstacle or some great danger
presents itself or it runneth counter to the dictates of wisdom.
For indolence and laxity hinder the outpourings of love from the
clouds of divine mercy, and people will thus remain deprived.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
3. “Thou hast written about the Fast. This is a most weighty matter
and thou shouldst exert thine utmost in its observance. It is a
fundamental of the Divine Law, and one of the pillars of the
religion of God.”
4. “Well is it with you, as you have followed the Law of God and
arisen to observe the Fast during these blessed days, for this
physical fast is a symbol of the spiritual fast. This Fast leadeth to
the cleansing of the soul from all selfish desires, the acquisition
of spiritual attributes, attraction to the breezes of the All-
Merciful, and enkindlement with the fire of divine love.”
5. “Fasting is the cause of the elevation of one’s spiritual station.”
From Shoghi Effendi, regarding the Fast
1. “As regards fasting, it constitutes, together with the obligatory
prayers, the two pillars that sustain the revealed Law of God.
They act as stimulants to the soul, strengthen, revive and purify
it, and thus insure its steady development.”
2. “The fasting period...is essentially a period of meditation and
prayer, of spiritual recuperation, during which the believer must
strive to make the necessary readjustments in his inner life, and
to refresh and reinvigorate the spiritual forces latent in his soul.
Its significance and purpose are, therefore, fundamentally
spiritual in character. Fasting is symbolic, and a reminder of
abstinence from selfish and carnal desires.”
3. “Those unwarranted practices, in connection with the sacrament
of baptism, of communion, of confession of sins, of asceticism,
of priestly domination, of elaborate ceremonials, of holy war
and of polygamy, have one and all been rigidly suppressed by the
Pen of Bahá’u’lláh; whilst the rigidity and rigor of certain
observances, such as fasting, which are necessary to the
devotional life of the individual, have been considerably abated.”


Notes
1 Adapted from bahaimosaic.blogspot.com/2009_02_26_archive.html.

2. Persian translation of Arabic verses
Universal House of Justice
Transmitted by email
Dear Bahá’í Friend,
1 February 2018
The Universal House of Justice has received your email letter of 7
November 2014 about the translation of the Arabic Writings into
Persian. It has considered your questions regarding this matter and
has instructed us to write to you as follows. The delay in doing so is
deeply regretted.
That the Arabic Bahá’í Writings are not translated into the Persian
language is based on guidance of the beloved Guardian. There are no
authorized Persian translations of any of the Arabic Writings, and
publication of any Persian translation of the full text of an Arabic
Sacred Text is not permitted. In his letters to believers in Iran, Shoghi
Effendi also exhorted the friends to recite the Obligatory Prayers in
Arabic. However, drawing upon an individual’s translation of these
Prayers or other Tablets in order to aid one’s understanding is, of
course, permissible, although such personal translations should not be
recited in Bahá’í gatherings. No issue should be made of what
individuals do in private prayer.
Latitude has likewise been given to using a personal translation or
a gist of a passage in Persian for the purpose of enhancing
understanding of the Writings, and these may be shared for this
purpose with a few others — for instance, in the context of a study

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
group. Further, the House of Justice has previously indicated that
adding diacriticals to the Arabic words and explaining the meaning of
difficult words are also acceptable means of assisting the friends to
gain a better understanding of the Writings in Arabic.
In light of a number of factors, Tajik and Persian are for practical
purposes treated differently.
It is hoped that the above information will be of assistance. You
may rest assured of the loving prayers of the House of Justice at the
Sacred Threshold.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

In Memoriam
Dr. Muhammad Afnan
1930 – 2017
Dr
Muhammad
Afnan
was
an
ardent
supporter,
active
collaborator and much-appreciated adviser for the Irfan Colloquium
and its publications. After a very fruitful life spent in the various
fields of service, he took his flight to the Abha Kingdom in August
2017 and Irfan Colloquium missed a most valuable collaborator. He
and his wife, Dr Mehry Kiani-Afnan, were regularly participating in
the annual sessions of the Irfan Colloquium held in Louhelen Bahá’í
School in Michigan and both of them making presentations on
scholarly studies in the Bahá’í Writings, particularly Writings of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Bab. Dr Afnan was deeply loved and highly respected by the
participants in the Irfan Colloquium gatherings as a gentle, wise,
loving and richly informed of the Bábí and Bahá’í literature. He was a
direct descendant, fifth generation, from Khál-i-Akbar, the oldest
maternal uncle of the Báb, who was honoured to be the recipient of
the Kitáb-i-ˆqán from the pen of Bahá’u’lláh. Dr Afnan was born in
Yazd, Iran, in 1930 and lived there until he moved to Tehran as a
young man to receive his university education, getting a doctorate
degree in veterinary medicine and bacteriology.
Dr Afnan served as a professor at the Department of Veterinary
Medicine in the Tehran University. He also served on the Local
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Tehran for some 15 years,
serving as its secretary for 10 years. In 1978, he and his family moved
to Norway to settle there as Bahá’í pioneers. Shortly after the
outbreak of the Islamic Revolution in January 1979, they were denied
residency permit in Norway. At the same time, he was advised not to
return to Iran because of his prominence in the Bahá’í
administration. In the ensuing persecutions, seven of the eight other
members of the Assembly on which he had served were arrested and
executed. Afnan family moved to Canada, settling in the town of
Dundas, where they helped form the Local Spiritual Assembly and
became active and much-loved members of the community. Dr Afnan
worked as a researcher at the cancer clinic at McMaster University
for 8 years, gaining the respect of his colleagues through his unique
combination of great knowledge and great humility.
Dr Afnan through extensive personal study and research, which he
started in his youth, became a distinguished scholar of the Bahá’í
writings and one of the handful of experts in the area of the Writings
of the Báb. He authored numerous articles and essays on a wide range
of Bahá’í subjects over the years that were recently published in two
volumes
Dr Afnan was one of the main faculty members of the Institute
of Advanced Baha’i Studies in Iran. Since Bahá’í institutions were
banned by the order of Islamic government authorities in Iran, Dr
Afnan, assisted by his dear wife, established the Institute for Baha’i
Studies in the Persian language in Dundas. This Institute, over the
years, published a large volume of books and booklets on various
Bahá’í subjects and encouraged and assisted Persian Baha'i scholars.

In Memoriam
In 1989, Dr Muhammad and Dr Mehry Afnan were invited to move
to Haifa, Israel, where they both served in the Research Department
at the Bahá’í World Centre for the next thirteen years.
Upon returning to Canada in 2002, they settled in Mississauga and
once again became enthusiastically involved in Bahá’ activities. They
had the opportunity to serve at the World Centre once more when
they were invited to work on a special project for three months in
2013.
Dr Afnan made a number of valuable presentations at the annual
sessions of Irfan Colloquium based on his vast knowledge and
studies. His research-based articles and commentaries are published in
various volumes of Safini-yi Irfan.
The Universal House of Justice expressed recognition and
appreciation for lifelong services of Dr Afnan in the following
message e-mailed to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of
Canada:
We were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of dearly
loved Muhammad Afnan, devoted servant of the Ancient
Beauty and an esteemed scion of the noble family of the
Blessed Báb. His exemplary services to the Cause over many
decades—in the administration of the Faith in Iran, in the
enrichment of Bahá’í scholarship, and, in particular, in the
study of the Writings of the Báb—were distinguished by
diligence, wisdom, and surpassing humility. Serving at the
Bahá’í World Centre, he made invaluable and lasting
contributions to the work of the Research Department.
We offer our loving sympathy to his dear wife, Mehri, their
children, and other family members and assure them of our
ardent supplications at the Sacred Threshold for the progress
of his illumined soul in all the worlds of God and for the
consolation of their hearts.

— The Universal House of Justice

Dr. Heshmat Shariary
1934 – 2018




Dr. Heshmat Shahriary was a staunch supporter of the ‘Irfán
Colloquium. Accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Farideh Shahriary, he
regularly participated in the annual sessions of  ‘Irfán Colloquium
held at Bosch Bahá’í School in northern California. As long as his
health condition allowed it, he was presenting the outcome of his
research and studies at the `Irfán Colloquium. Some of his research-
based articles are published in the volumes of Safíni-yi-‘Irfán.
Heshmat Shahriary was born on May 1, 1934, in Kashan, Iran. He
was a fourth-generation Bahá’í. His great-grandfather Mulla Rida of
Zavareh and his grandfather Assad’ulláh, both were Bahá’í Martyrs
and were honoured by receiving Tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
He moved to Tehran at the age of 17, attended Alborz High
School, then moved to Shiraz to continue his higher education at the

In Memoriam
Pahlavi University’s Medical School. During his first year at that
university, Hand of the Cause of God `Alí-Akbar Furútan visited
Shiraz and spent four months delivering a series of lectures aimed at
deepening the knowledge and understanding of the friends in the
verities of the Bahá’í Faith. Sensing a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,
Heshmat decided to temporarily leave his medical studies and become
available fulltime to accompany Mr. Furútan during that period. This
decision would turn out to be pivotal and Heshmat looked upon this
time as one of the most life-changing and significant experiences of
his life. His transcriptions of Mr. Furútan’s talks during that time in
Shiraz filled three volumes, some of which can be found on
the Ayeneh-e-Jahan website.
Heshmat went on to complete his education and become a
renowned orthopaedic surgeon. He moved to the United States at the
onset of the Islamic Revolution in 1979, where he successfully
continued his practice as a physician. He authored two widely-
regarded textbooks on the subject of arthroscopic surgery, one of
which was translated into Chinese.
Heshmat had a burning desire to teach and serve the Faith. It was
his dream to visit the country and the people of Romania, the
country of Queen Marie, who, at her time, was the only monarch to
recognize Bahá’u’lláh and become a Bahá’í. He travelled to Romania
six times and successfully acquired a great number of copies of
Queen Marie’s letters as well as relics from the Museum’s archives
which he then donated to the Bahá’í World Center. The greatest
honour of his life was when during his visit to that country in
December 1990, he was presented with the official written
pronouncement of recognition of the Bahá’í Faith in Romania by the
Ministry of Religious Affairs.
Dr. Shahriary then turned his attention to China, which is referred
to by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as “the country of the future.” He travelled many
times to China and achieved great results in his efforts over there.
The crowning achievement of his work in China was undoubtedly the
establishment of the Center for Bahá’í Studies in Beijing, through the
support of Pride, a non-profit organization. The establishment of
this Center was a-dream-come-true for Heshmat.

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
In both Romania and China he organized seminars in the field of
orthopaedic medicine where he shared and taught the techniques of
arthroscopic surgery, a field in which he was widely acknowledged to
be one of the original pioneers.
In addition to his travels, Dr Shahriary developed a genuine
relationship
with
the
Persian
media,
opening
channels
of
communications that would clear up common and widely-held
misunderstandings about the Bahá’í Faith. He worked towards this
goal tirelessly and passionately until the end of his life.
He retired from his medical practice in 2007 after a car accident.
Guided and encouraged by the Universal House of Justice, he
embarked on what would be his last great service to a Faith he loved
and served his entire life: publishing a magazine entitled Ayeneh-e
Jahan.
The last decade of his life saw him participating actively in the
‘Irfán Colloquium. He devoted many joyful hours pouring his energy
and scholarship into studies and research for preparing scholarly
presentations for annual sessions of that colloquium until fatigue and
poor health prevented him from pursuing his research. On April 19,
2018, he left his earthly life as he lived it: peacefully and with great
dignity.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice
ADP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy
BA
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration

BK
Compilation, Bahíyyih Khánum
BP
Compilation, Bahá’í Prayers
BS
Compilation, Bahá’í Scriptures
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
CC1-3
Compilation of Compilations, volumes 1–3
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith
DG
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries
GPB
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
JWTA
Shoghi Effendi, Japan Will Turn Ablaze
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
LG
Compilation, Lights of Guidance
MBW
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957
MF
Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials of the Faithful

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
MOTC
Compilation, Ministry of the Custodians
MUHJ63
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986
MUJH68
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1968-1973
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PDC
Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of The Báb
TAB1-3
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TDH
Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour
TDP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan
TU
Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity
UD
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament

Appendices


Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-18
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Faríd ud-Dín A††ár
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: Summary of Glorious Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and
Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-baqá’
burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Translation
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation, Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude, the Mystical Heart: Hidden Essence of God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen

Appendices


The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan ‘Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg: A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the Templer Leader
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd: Guidance on Human Nature and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Persianate and Bábí Sources
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women of
Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án Commentaries
of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne and
Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafá Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown

Appendices


Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manuchehr Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity
of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh:
Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and Spirit
of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of Justice
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Alí Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A Provisional
Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts from the
Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas

Appendices


Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
‘Alí Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An Exposition
on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat
Amín Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered Questions
in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Alí Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Appendices


Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basít al-Óaqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of ’Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amín Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Bahárieh Rouhani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Alí Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about God
Moojan Momen

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge
The New Atheism — A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Alí Nakhjavani
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Alí Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen, © 2013
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing

Appendices


Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine Fire in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy — Theology — Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-Ruz
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt. Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of Humanity
During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910 — 5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fifteen, © 2014
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend: Reflection on Bahá’í Scholarship
as a Journey in the Valley of Search
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings
Part II: Deeper into the Writings
Ian Kluge

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious History and the
Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Bahárieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Origins of Creation
Farjam Majd
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society
Moojan Momen
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call: (mast-and bulbulán)
Julio Savi
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics
Foad Seddigh
Non-Involvement in Politics
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam:
Hushmand Fatheazam (1924-2013)
Amín Banani (1926-2013)
Mahboubeh Arjmand (d. 2013)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Sixteen, © 2015
The Ten Plagues of the Exodus in Light of the Bahá’í Writings
JoAnn M. Borovicka
Freud’s Transference and the Four States of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Procrustes’ Bed: The Insufficiency of Secular Humanism
Ian Kluge
Women and Wisdom in Scripture
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani
On Existence and Qualities of the Human Soul
Farjam Majd
Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related to Law in Bahá’í Scripture
Moojan Momen
Shared Prosperity: How Does That Work?

Appendices


Wendi Momen
A Hymn to Love (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí)
Julio Savi
“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”: An early fruit of the Supreme Pen
Julio Savi
Intellectual Life and the Future of Bahá’í Studies
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam
Kamran Ekbal (1946-2014)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seventeen, © 2016
Addressing the Rising Tide of Globalization and Amorality in the Present World
Order and Its Implications on Extremes of Wealth and Poverty
Rama Ayman
Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
JoAnn M. Borovicka
The Language of the Heart: From Dream Language towards Understanding the
Language of the Heart
Wolfgang Klebel
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge
Memorials of the Faithful: Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
Marlene Koswan
Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of Sainthood
Moojan Momen
The Concept of ‘Faithfulness’ in the Bahá’í Texts in English Translation
Wendi Momen
An Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Julio Savi
Significance of Some Sites Mentioned in Memorials of the Faithful
Foad Seddigh

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Hagiography: The Art Inspirational Examples for a Religious Community
Iscander Micael Tinto
Translation of Key Bahá’í Terms
Universal House of Justice
Suggestions about Changes in the Administrative Order
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam: Houshang Arjmand (1930-2015)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eighteen, © 2017
An Inquiry on the Role of Religion in Wealth and Poverty
Hooshmand Badee
Biblical References in Tablets of the Divine Plan
JoAnn Borovicka
Bahá’u’lláh and the Luminous Mind: Bahá’í Gloss on a Buddhist Puzzle
Roland Faber
Themes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of The Divine Plan Illustrated by Scriptural
References to the Bible and the Qur’án
Lameh Fananapazir
Grand Narratives and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge
“Some Answered Questions” and Its Compiler
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani
A Comparison between the Commentary and Interpretation of an Islamic
Tradition by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Ayatu’llah Khomeini
Moojan Momen
In the Presence of the Beloved: Bahá’u’lláh’s Law ̇-i-Liqá’: A Revised Provisional
Translation and Notes
Nima Rafiei
Poetry in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings and Utterances
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani

Appendices


Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
Moojan Momen (ed.), Scripture & Revelation (Oxford: George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions (Oxford:
George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at
‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to Nineteen (2000–2018)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safíni-yi ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia (in Persian), Books One to Twenty-one (1998–2018)
Farah Dustdar (ed.), Beiträge des ‘Irfán–Kolloquiums: Compilations of
Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in German), Books One to Six
(Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í Verlag, 2004–2017)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation (Darmsdat,
Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalíl-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun is the Sun)
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy-i‘-i-Ma‘ání va Tafsír (The Wonders of Inner Meanings
and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic
Verses and Islamic Traditions (Darmsdat: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)
Sháhbaz Fatheazam, The Last Refuge: Fifty Years of the Universal House of
Justice (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2015)
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950 Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921 Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170 Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Lights of Irfán vol. 19
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
The ‘Irfán Colloquium aims at promoting and supporting
systematic studies of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í beliefs, the
Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith, the interface of
the Bahá’í Faith with intellectual schools of thought and religious
traditions, and looking at current challenges in human society from
the Bahá’í perspective. ‘Irfán is a Persian word referring to mystical,
theological and spiritual knowledge. The ‘Irfán Colloquium and its
publications are sponsored by Haj Mehdi Memorial Fund and
supported by Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarships grant.
The Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund was established by
Houshang Arjmand (1930–2015) in 1992 to honor his grand-father,
Haj Mehdi Arjmand, and is dedicated to promoting the scholarly
study of the Bahá’í Faith. Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-1941) was a
Persian scholar and teacher of the Bahá’í Faith who became well
known in Iran for his profound knowledge of the Bible, Qur’an, and
Bahá’í scriptures. The primary activity of the Fund is sponsoring
annual sessions of ‘Irfán Colloquium and ‘Irfán publications.
In 2012, benefiting from the guidance received from the Universal
House of Justice, a management board was appointed for this fund
to function as a Bahá’í agency under the direction of the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States. Organizing and holding
‘Irfán Colloquia started in 1993 and are presently held seven times
every year in North America and Western Europe in English, Persian
and German languages under the auspices of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the host country.
As of June 2018 one hundred and fifty-two sessions of colloquia
have been held. Papers in English presented or received at the ‘Irfán
Colloquia are annually published in a series of volumes of the Lights
of ‘Irfán.