THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1969-07-10

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

70.1 With great joy we announce that we have decided to increase the total number of members of the  Continental Boards of Counselors for the Protection and Propagation of the Faith to thirty- eight by adding John McHenry III to the Continental Board of Counselors in North East Asia and Mas’úd Khamsí to the Continental Board of Counselors in South America, raising the number of Counselors on each Board to three and four, respectively.

70.2 We also rejoice to announce the appointment of Mrs. Shirin Boman to the Continental Board of Counselors of Western Asia to fill a vacancy on that Board.

70.3 The devoted efforts of all eleven Continental Boards of Counselors during the first year of their service to the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh have been most exemplary and praiseworthy.  We are deeply grateful for the loyalty, steadfastness and devotion which have characterized the activities of all members in reinforcing the vitally important work of the Hands of the Cause of God. 70.4 Please share these glad tidings with the friends.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

71 Formation of an Additional National Spiritual Assembly during Ri ḍván 1970

11 A UGUST  1969

To all National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 71.1 In the brief space of time following the announcement of the formation of six new National Spiritual Assemblies in Africa next Ri ḍván, the succession of victories, resulting from the prodigious efforts exerted by the devoted friends, impels us to announce that a seventh National Spiritual Assembly will be formed in Africa at Ri ḍván, 1970.  The new National Spiritual Assembly including Congo (Brazzaville), Chad, Central African Republic and Gabon, will have its seat in Bangui.  This will leave Uganda with its own separate National Spiritual Assembly. 11471.2 Please share this joyous news with the believers.  We know the friends throughout the world join us in our supplications for the continued, uninterrupted prosecution and speedy fulfillment of the goals, terminating in the ultimate triumph of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

72 Work of Continental Boards of Counselors and Their Auxiliary Board Members

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]