THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1994-04-07

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

After more than four years of highly valued service on the continental

board of counselors in Africa, mr. gilbert robert has resigned for compel-

ling health reasons. we are confident that he will continue to serve the cause

with great devotion in other ways, and assure him of our loving prayers.

To fill the vacancy caused by mr. robert’s resignation, we announce the

appointment of mr. eddy lutchmaya of quatre-bornes, mauritius, to the

membership of the continental board of counselors in Africa for the re-

mainder of the current term.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

181

Riḍván Message 1994

Ridván 151

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

one year of the Three year plan is now behind us, a year in which the

turmoil of the world engendered in hearts and minds both hope and fear, both optimism and despair, both admiration of people’s courage and shame at the cruelty to which mankind can sink. Amidst these trials, the follow-

ers of bahá’u’lláh press forward, clear-visioned and confident, raising the

structure of god’s kingdom, suffusing society with a new spirit, and dem-

onstrating to all people the revitalizing effect of the divine Teachings.

At the world center, the 23rd of may saw the opening of a new five-

year term of the membership of the international Teaching center. in our

first joint meeting we applauded the many initiatives which it had pursued

during the previous term and urged their further development. prominent

among these initiatives was the guidance given to the continental counsel-

ors to promote consultation at local and national levels, among institutions 180.1

180.2

181.1

181.2

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

79and believers, leading to the initiation and sustaining of processes of growth

in the bahá’í community. Another was the progressive clarifying of various

approaches to the teaching work. As the year has proceeded, these actions have intensified the impetus being given to the development of the faith

and its institutions by the counselors, the Auxiliary board members and

their assistants, reinforcing the insight and encouragement that they give to

the National and local Spiritual Assemblies and the individual believers.

The growing reputation of the faith in the eyes of the world, and the at-

tention that this is drawing to the world center, underscore the importance

of completing the Terraces of the Shrine of the báb and the buildings for

the world Administrative center of the cause of bahá’u’lláh. Since the is-

suing of the special appeal to the bahá’í world to raise seventy-four million

dollars for this project during the course of the Three year plan, the response

has been heartwarming, and it is our ardent hope that the continuation of

this spirit of sacrifice will result in the speedy achievement of this goal and will ensure the uninterrupted progress of the work, drawing to god’s holy

mountain the admiring gaze of visitors and residents alike.

Study of the kitáb-i-Aqdas is illuminating the lives of the rank and file

of the believers. Awareness of the importance of upholding the principles of the faith and obeying its laws is rising. universal application of the law of

þuqúqu’lláh has aroused an enthusiastic response. The friends’ conscious-

ness of their individual obligation to teach the faith is growing. As they

discharge their spiritual responsibilities and learn greater dependence on the

confirmations of bahá’u’lláh, they find that their faith gains new vitality,

and their hearts fresh confidence. These are all areas where the action of the individual need not wait for either urging or help. Alone, and aided solely by the power of the Almighty, each believer is challenged to develop these spiritual strengths which will contribute beyond measure to the evolution

of the community.

The human resources of the cause are being augmented in two ways.

people of capacity are being moved to embrace the faith, reinforcing the

ranks of those who are already serving. The latter, for their part, have been enriching their experience and acquiring greater capabilities through

a more profound study of the Teachings and through expressing them in action. recognizing the need for a more systematic deepening of their un-

derstanding of the Teachings and their application to society, the friends have increased the use of workshops and institutes, with notable success. in the year ahead these two complementary processes—attracting people 181.3

181.4

181.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

80of capacity and increasing our own abilities—must be further advanced,

stimulating individual action and the harmonious development of a wide

range of activities for the promotion of the f aith.

As the potentialities of the individual believers unfold, so the local and

national bahá’í institutions are gaining ability to foster the quality of the life

of their communities and to conceive and implement imaginative programs. in many areas local Spiritual Assemblies have collaborated in teaching the

faith in a region. National Assemblies, likewise, have been evolving innova-

tive projects to seize the opportunities presented by developments outside

the cause. Some examples of such activities, in very different fields, have

been the open letter project in Albania; the response to the extraordinary

receptivity of the authorities and the general population in the Sakha and buryat republics in Siberia; and the agreement signed between the National

Spiritual Assembly of the marshall islands and the local government of

majuro Atoll in response to the national authorities’ request that the bahá’ís

assume responsibility for the operation of five state elementary schools.

The evolution of local and national bahá’í institutions has made possible

an increased measure of decentralization in the administration of the work. for this beneficial process to expand, however, the crucial prerequisite in

most countries is the speedy improvement of the functioning of local Spiri-

tual Assemblies. This calls for the close attention of every believer. These

local bahá’í institutions, ordained in the kitáb-i-Aqdas itself, constitute a

reservoir of strength and guidance which will amplify the effectiveness of

the work of the cause as they mature.

we live in the midst of populations which are in desperate need of the

message of bahá’u’lláh. it is our duty to present it lucidly and convincingly

to as many souls as possible. The darkness and suffering around us not only are the signs of a need, but also present us with an opportunity which we

must not fail to use. conveying the message is merely the first step. we

must then ensure that it is understood and applied, for, as we read in one

of the letters written on behalf of the guardian: “u ntil the public sees

in the bahá’í community a true pattern, in action, of something better

than it already has, it will not respond to the faith in large numbers.”

181-1

when people embrace the cause, they should then, through the Teachings,

develop their relationships with each other and with their fellow-citizens

181-1. peb T, p. 3.181.6

181.7

181.8

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

81to gradually produce a truly bahá’í community, a light and haven for the

bewildered.

After the glorious events of the heroic Age of the faith, entry by troops

of the peoples of the world into the cause of god first occurred in Africa

during the ministry of Shoghi effendi, and then spread to other areas. grad-

ually, the bahá’í communities of those regions are learning through experi-

ence and are evolving methods and programs which aim to draw these large

numbers of believers together in functioning communities and to establish strong bases for continuing growth. To assist them in their endeavors, to help the bahá’ís in other countries to initiate and maintain this process,

and to dispel the misconceptions which inevitably surround so challenging a concept, a compilation on Promoting Entry by Troops has been issued.

181-2

Study and application of the principles and approaches described therein

will undoubtedly assist every bahá’í teacher and community, whether in an

area where entry by troops has been a reality for many years, or in one where

no sign of it has yet appeared. in respect to the latter, it will help to convince

individual believers of the reality and validity of this process and will enable

bahá’í communities to prepare themselves spiritually and materially for this

surge forward, to eagerly anticipate its occurrence, to take those steps which

will foster its beginning, and to ensure the measures which will perpetuate its growth.

The notable rise in international collaboration during the past year, the

settlement of pioneers, and the flow of traveling teachers have knit ever more closely the fabric of the bahá’í community. leading the way in such

achievements, Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih khánum undertook an arduous

journey for the encouragement of the believers and the proclamation of the faith, covering russia and other lands which were formerly parts of the

Soviet union, from the baltic States in the west to Siberia in the east, from

the central Asian republics in the south to Saint petersburg and yakutsk in

the north.

This ri¤ván seven inaugural National conventions will be held. our rep-

resentatives at these historic events will be the hand of the cause Amatu’l-

bahá rú¥íyyih khánum for the election of the National Spiritual Assembly

of the bahá’ís of cambodia in phnom penh, and for that of the National

Spiritual Assembly of the bahá’ís of mongolia in ulaan baatar; the hand of

181-2. See no. 173, p. 367; and cc 3, pp. 154–203.181.9

181.10

181.11

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

82the cause ‘Alí-m u¥ammad varqá for the election of the regional Spiritual

Assembly of the bahá’ís of Slovenia and croatia in ljubljana; counselor

lauretta king for the election of the National Spiritual Assembly of the

bahá’ís of kazakhstan in Alma-Ata, and for that of the National Spiritual

Assembly of the bahá’ís of kyrgyzstan in bishkek; and counselor Shapoor

monadjem for the election of the National Spiritual Assembly of the bahá’ís

of Tajikistan in dushanbe, and for that of the National Spiritual Assembly

of the bahá’ís of uzbekistan in Tashkent. The present regional Spiritual

Assembly of central Asia, with its seat in ‘i shqábád, will then become the

National Spiritual Assembly of the b ahá’ís of T urkmenistan.

The end of the century is fast approaching. There is so little time and

so much to do. we call upon every follower of the cause of bahá’u’lláh to

consecrate the utmost endeavor to the two primary tasks of teaching the

faith to every thirsting soul, and of providing the material means for the

completion of the monumental projects being pursued on mount carmel.

whatever the outward conditions of mankind in the year ahead, the bahá’í

community must gather strength, demonstrate more clearly the distinguish-ing character of its way of life, reach out with confidence to proclaim and

teach its message, and draw down in ever-greater measure the confirming assistance of the hosts of the Supreme concourse. in every aspect of this

work, it is the individual b ahá’í who holds the key to victory.

182

Achievements of Bahá’í Youth in Europe

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]