THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1989-11-28

To the friends gathered at the Teaching conference

memory of the h and of the cause of g od d r. ra¥mátu’lláh m uhájir

c/o The National Spiritual Assembly of the b ahá’ís of e cuador

dearly loved f riends,

As our hearts turn to your assemblage, we are moved to recall the re-

markable spirit of dr. muhájir, whose presence is surely felt by all of you

gathered on this occasion.

dr. muhájir was a man of vision, who had an extraordinary ability to

recognize the practical needs of the community, but he was also a man of

action, and his greatest dream was that the masses of humanity would soon

awaken to the call of bahá’u’lláh. he well understood that the greatest gift

that bahá’u’lláh has given us is the privilege to become instruments through

which other souls are touched by h is healing message. i f we offer ourselves

in the right manner, if we make selfless efforts, if we arise with love and

with courage, then our services and sacrifices will be confirmed and many seeking souls will find eternal life. Thus the cause of god will blossom

before our eyes.

dr. muhájir has left a great legacy, and by the grace of god his earthly

remains repose in latin America, in a land and amongst a people that he

loved so much. we earnestly pray that the memory of his indomitable spirit

will inspire all of those present at this international conference to arise and

follow his noble example by offering enthusiastic and humble service during the yearlong teaching plan that has been dedicated to his memory.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

80.2

80.3

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

1981

Release of a Compilation on the

Sanctity and Nature of Bahá’í Elections

10 D ecember  1989

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

on bahá’í elections as a useful tool to help National Spiritual Assemblies to

increase the understanding of the believers regarding the nature and sanctity of these elections, and to prepare themselves for the expected rapid increase

in the number of believers. A compilation entitled The Sanctity and Nature

of  Bahá’í Elections has been prepared by the research department, and a

copy is attached.

81-1

The study of this compilation will require careful and sustained planning

by the National Spiritual Assemblies and local Spiritual Assemblies, and it

should become part of the ongoing program for the deepening of the friends

in the fundamentals of bahá’í administration. The house of justice urges

all National Spiritual Assemblies to discuss the implementation of such a program with the counselors, so that the rank and file of the believers,

with the wholehearted support of the Auxiliary board members and their

assistants, will appreciate the importance of adhering to bahá’í principles

in this regard, and carry out all bahá’í elections, on the national as well as

the unit and local levels, in an exemplary manner, in full harmony with the

spirit of purity and sanctity which must characterize them.

tant it is for all delegates allocated to the National convention to be elected

and the desirability of having all the elected delegates attend this vital na-

tional event. it has been noticed that, although attendance at most National

conventions is gradually improving, in several countries every year not all delegates are being elected, and in numerous instances, even when elected,

they do not participate either in person or by sending in their ballots.

81-1. The compilation is too lengthy to include here; see cc 3, pp. 139–53.81.1

81.2

81.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

150be assured of ardent prayers in the holy Shrines that your resolute efforts

to improve the record of devoted and enthusiastic participation in delegate

elections, National conventions and local Assembly elections will attract

the assistance and blessings of the divine concourse.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

82

Message to the World Foresty Charter Gathering

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]