Translation of the booklet commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Establishment of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Ṭihrán

53 B.E.-103 B.E.

“CALL thou to remembrance, O Land of Ta (Ṭihrán), the former days in which thy Lord had made thee the seat of His throne, and had enveloped thee with the effulgence of His glory. How vast the number of those sanctified beings, those symbols of certitude, who, in their great love for thee, have laid down their lives and sacrificed their all for thy sake! Joy be to thee, and blissfulness to them that inhabit thee. I testify that out of thee, as every discerning heart knoweth, proceedeth the living breath of Him Who is the Desire of the world. In thee the Unseen hath been revealed, and out of thee hath gone forth that which lay hid from the eyes of men. Which one of the multitude of thy sincere lovers shall We remember, whose blood hath been shed within thy gates, and whose dust is now concealed beneath thy soil? The sweet savors of God have unceasingly been wafted, and shall everlastingly continue to be wafted upon thee. Our Pen is moved to commemorate thee, and to extol the victims of tyranny, those men and women that sleep beneath thy dust.

Among them is Our own sister, whom We now call to mind as a token of Our fidelity, and as proof of Our loving-kindness, unto her. How piteous was her plight! In what a state of resignation she returned to her God! We, alone, in Our all-encompassing knowledge, have known it.

O Land of Ṭa! Thou art still, through the grace of God, a center around which His beloved ones have gathered. Happy are they; happy every refugee that seeketh thy shelter, in his sufferings in the path of God, the Lord of this wondrous Day! Blessed are they that remember the one true God, that magnify His Name, and seek diligently to serve His Cause. It is to these men that the sacred Books of old have referred. On them hath the Commander of the Faithful lavished his praise, saying: “The blessedness awaiting them excelleth the blessedness we now enjoy.” He, verily, hath spoken the truth, and to this We now testify. The glory of their station, however, is as yet undisclosed. The Hand of Divine power will, assuredly, lift up the veil, and expose to the sight of men that which shall cheer and lighten the eye of the world.

Render thanks unto God, the Eternal Truth, exalted be His glory, inasmuch as ye have attained so wondrous a favor, and been adorned with the ornament of His praise. Appreciate the value of these days and cleave to whatsoever beseemeth this Revelation. He, verily, is the Counselor, the Compassionate, the All-Knowing.”

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh – LV –

Pages 1-16 contains the Letter of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán for this occasion (translated by Manousheed Bagha, 2022):

In The Name of God, the Glory of the Glorious

As the dear friends in the Bahá’í community of the Blessed city of Tihrán are aware, the Local Spiritual Assembly has realized in the year 103 B. E. (1325 Solar year) that not only during the last 100 Bahá’í years many historical events had taken place in this city, but during the last 50 years,  the Local Spiritual Assembly of Tihrán has been formed and is functioning.

In reality the Bahá’í Community of Tihrán has been adorned with a unique opportunity,  and is proud that during the last 50 years, has collaborated with one of the oldest Bahá’í Spiritual Assembly, to sacrificially serve the Cause, rising to achieve many valuable services.

We all are aware that Tihrán, the birthplace of the Blessed Beauty, has  been faced with enormous revolutionary tribulations and changes.  Enormous commotions, that could be the cause of dormant, had led to the Glory of the spiritual springtime and have adorned its many fields and the gardens.  The buildings and structures of this city are honored and proud that they have witnessed the manifestation of an auspicious birth on the 2nd of Muharam,1233 Hijrat, in which Its manifestation have been the desire of the prophets, and the cause of spiritual and material maturity of the world.

Its streets, bazaars, mountains, valleys were honored by the footsteps of the Manifestation of the Beauty of the Merciful.  From Its celestial orchards, the spiritual musk scented breezes were blowing on the dead and the gloomy corpse of the world and will revive it.

The Center of His Covenant and the Interpreter of the writings of the Blessed Beauty was born in this city and spent his early years in this mystical environment, witnessing the revolutionary events that happened during the early years of the Cause.

Members of His Holy Family, as well as the early believers; the dear martyrs for this faith- The Hands of the Cause of God and thousands of holy individuals, who were likened to the beacons of lights in the mansion of the Cause of God and are ablaze shining in this land until eternity, have been nurtured in This Land.

Every day, hour, and minute of the history of the centenary of this Holy Cause in this resplendent region has been a witness to an event, and a step taken towards the development of an evolutionary process of this spiritual growth.

How numerous was the effect of this Resplendence Cause on the continuous growth of the Faith.  However, despite this common knowledge, perhaps we don’t realize that out of the thousands historical honors this glorious city had, and the under the blessed faith of Bahá'u'llah, the establishment of the First Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán is an event that took place in its midst.

Tihrán is the capital of Iran; and Iran is the sacred pilgrimage for the Bahá’ís of the world.  Its territory and plain has been resplendent with the red (color) blood of the martyrs.  Certitude and fortitude of the faith of its early believers have grown in this land from the Sun of Truth.  How often had the early heroes of the Bahá’í Cause prayed and pleaded with the future heroes.  Although the secret of these developments will be hidden,  however, the human being is now benefiting from its fruits, and for another thousands of years will benefit from the thunders of its rain, lightning, the spring blowing of its gale and will result in spiritual, intellectual, ethical, philosophical  and material benefits.  A Land that has been addressed by the Most Exalted Pen as: “Let nothing grieve thee, O Land of Ta (Tihrán), for God hath chosen thee to be the source of joy of all mankind.”……. “ Rejoice with great joy, for God hath made thee “the Day Spring of His light…”

In another instance the Center of the Covenant writes: “The future of Iran is of the utmost greatness, majesty, and glory, for it is the native land of the Blessed Beauty.  All the nations of the earth will turn to and regard Iran with high esteem.  Know of a certainty that it will make such progress as to dazzle the eyes of the mighty and the learned throughout the world.”

From the Pen of the Peerless Master this land has been  honored as: “ Patience, endurance, courage and bravery is needed.  It is too soon for that land to become the paradise, and the oppressed in that Land will be the pride of the world and this promise is not false”

In another content he says: “ O spiritual brothers and sisters, now it is time for rejoicing and victory of the beloveds in that Land….,,”

Under the banners, it will remain unique.  One cannot imagine the past achievements, nor the future  honors.  We are living in this blessed city that each span of it has stored a historical story.  A glorious city that every section of it has witnessed an unparalleled moment of the history of our faith.  Are we aware of our glorious and precise position?  Are we as an Iranian Bahá’í paying our debt to past and imagining our duty to the future generations?............................................................................

As the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán has realized that the year 103 BE coincides with the 50th anniversary of establishment of the Assembly in the Blessed city of Tihrán, it has decided to organize a glorious gathering to celebrate this event,  and is inviting the Bahá’í community of Tihrán to it (this event), so the truth of the faith and the future duties will be explained, and at this historical juncture, it is inviting the community to raise the glorious banner of the Faith.

Therefore, after obtaining permission from the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran this Assembly has formed a committee consisting of selfless individuals to organize this event.  The Spiritual Assembly is certain that these selfless believers will not come short of dedicating their times and efforts for this endeavor.  They have already collected a vast number of pictures and historical information from the historians and early …… believers and have taken important steps to unravel the history of this illumined city.  Copies of those invaluable pictures have been already included in this booklet.

In order to prepare the fifty years of the history of the Assembly of Tihrán we had to obtain and rely on authentic documents.  Therefore we had to seek through many documents and delve into stories to find the credible documents and leave the rest out.

Many invaluable documents and statements have been collected by these dedicated friends of the cause of God.  As a result the Spiritual Assembly is in the process of accomplishing this effort and present it to the Bahá’í community. It is our hope that in the year 104 B. E. this intent will be accomplished, and this invaluable collection will be published and distributed.  This is an invaluable treasure from the early believers for the Bahá’í community of Blessed Tihrán.

The anniversary of the 10th, 25th, and the 100 years of the faith has been celebrated in the world and among the Bahá’ís repeatedly.  Our spiritual brothers from the west have benefited greatly from these events; and have documented its historical values.  They brought these events to the attention of the  public and prepared an invaluable gem for future generations.  They have established important institutions, and great establishments.  As 'Abdu'l-Bahá has mentioned the institutions they have established are greater than foundations that surpasses Saturn and we can also benefit from their experience and follow the steps of the pioneers and the people of good will.

Hence, by presenting this invaluable and historical collections of the pictures that is the result of efforts and hard work, the Spiritual Assembly is inviting the beloved Bahá’í community members in Tihran, men and women, to participate in the glorious celebration at the Bahá’í Center in Tihran………

The Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Tirhan, with its great gatherings at the National Bahá’í Center has been hosting the National Spiritual Assembly’s events.  However, because of the need for National events, this Assembly will relocated ……….. temporarily.  …………...  Therefore it is necessary that the community should be looking for a suitable home for this institution and find a place for its archives, and eventual arrival of guests.

In recent months, the Assembly of Tirhan became aware that the lands on the North and Northwest of the current Bahá’í Center, next to the land that has been donated by the NSA for building a guest house is for sale.  Immediately, a loan in the sum of  698380 Rial….. was obtained and the land was purchased.  Now with increase in the value of lands, this property is worth even more.  The location of this land and its proximity to the Bahá’í Center is very valuable.  However the loan and the monthly payments of it is still outstanding.  A great effort is  needed to first pay the loan with the interest and then to get prepared to build the building on it.

This Assembly is assured that the unprecedented effort of the community members will assist this Assembly to pay the entire loan with its interest. ………………

The Assembly is supplicating at the threshold of the Blessed Beauty to aid the high endeavors of the community so that the sacrifices of the forerunners will lead to new achievements, commensurate with the current glorious needs, and to leave an eternal mark and a lasting memory.

Signed by the Local Spiritual Assembly of Tihrán

Captions (translated Manousheed Bagha, 2022):

Pictures #1: Ruined Caravansary in Kenar Gard, (Chapar Khaneh: Postal services)

Picture #2:  A Shrine of the Innocent, The Remains of the Báb were buried in this shrine for a while

امامزاده معصوم - ویکی‌پدیا، دانشنامهٔ آزاد (wikipedia.org)

(MB added the link)

Picture #3: The house of Aqa Hussein Ali Nour (deceased) where the remains of the Báb was kept for a while.

(The 2 men in front of the door are not identified)

Picture #4: The house of Aqa Karim Atar, where the remains of the Báb was kept for a while.

standing in front of a tree is an unknown woman in chador

Picture #5: Scene of a garden where Bahá'u'llah used to spend time during the summers in Morq Mahaleh, between Pass Qa’aleh and Darband, North of Tihrán

Picture #6: The home and birthplace of Bahá'u'llah in Tihrán.

Picture #7: The home of Bahá'u'llah in Afjeh,  Baha’u’llah was in this house when the attack to the King of Iran occurred by a few Babis.

Picture #8: House of Haji Mirza Reza Quli, Bahá'u'llah’s brother in Bazzar, close to the edge of the city and the ditch built around the city.

(The 2 men in front of the House are not identified).

Picture #9:  The house of Kalántar in Tihrán, were Ṭáhirih was imprisoned.

Picture #10: The dome shows the pathway to  Síyáh-Chál in Tihrán

Picture #11: one of the Bazzar’s in Tihrán known as Sabzeh Midan.

Many early believes of Tihrán were martyred on this location.

Picture #12: a location in Tihrán called “Payeh Qapoq” . Many believers were martyred on that location.

Picture #13: This picture is showing the spot where the seven martyrs of Tihrán were burried.  Indicated by X.  It is called the Circle of Amin’u’Sultan.

Picture #14: Another angle of the Circle of Amin’u’Sultan where the 7 martyrs of Tihrán were burried.

Picture #15: School of Mirza Saleh, where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá attended for some time

Picture #16: A field called Galandook, (showing a farm), where Badi', the martyr was buried.  He was instructed by Bahá'u'llah to hand deliver the Tablet of Bahá'u'llah to the King of Iran.

Picture #17: Village of Kenar Gard from distance

Picture #18: Shown in this picture are Haji Amin (Trusty of Huquq) and Haji Mulla Ali Akbar Shahmirzadi ( Haji Akhund), a Hand of the Cause of Bahá'u'llah, in prison.

Picture #19: Members of the second Local Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Tihrán. (Year 1316 Hijrat lunar year)			(2)

Picture #20: Members of the first Local Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Tihrán (year 1315 Hijrat, Lunar year, 1899 )					(1)

Picture #21: Members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Tihrán with aministrators,1306 Shamsi

Picture #22: Members of the Local Spiritual Assembly of Tihrán after the passing of 'Abdu'l-Bahá

Picture #23: Members of the first Central Consultative group, year 1306 Shamsi

Picture #24: First Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán, 103 B.E., 1325 Solar calendar

Picture #25: Celebration for the start of building the National Bahá’í Center in Tihrán, in presence of the Bahá’í friends.

Picture #26: Members of the Central group, 1308 Shamsi

Picture #27: A group of the Bahá’í friends of Tihrán in the presence of Áqá Muḥammad-i-Qá'iní,

Nabíl-i-Akbar - Wikipedia

(The link added by MB)

Picture # 28: A group of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán in the presence of Haji Akhund, (one of the 4 Hands of the Cause Appointed by Baha’u’llah)

Picture #29: A group of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán in the presence of Haji Amin, the trusty of Huquq’u’llah

Picture #30: A group of the Bahá’ís in the presence of Mr. Hippolyte Dreyfus and Mrs. Dreyfus (Barney) at the home of Mr. Mossavar Akas Bashi Rahmani in Tihrán.

Picture #31: National Delegates to elect the first National Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran

Picture #32: A group of the Bahá’ís of Tihrán in presence of 2 Western believers

Picture #33: Early Bahá’ís, this picture was taken at the Avenue called after Nayar and Sina, (Bahá’í poets)

Picture #34: Members of the Spiritual Assembly, with Members of the various committees, joined by Bahá’í teacher, in presence of Miss Martha Root, in Tihrán

Picture #35: Members of the various women’s committees in Tihrán serving to advance women, in presence of Miss Martha Root

Picture #36: Members of the Children’s Classes Committee in Tihrán

Picture #37: Members of the Advancing Women’s issues, in presence of Mrs. Kehler (Mrs. Keith Ransom-Kehler)

Picture #38:  Deepening class of Mr. Sardr’U-Sudor, a Bahá’í teacher and scholar.  Year 1324 Lunar year Haji Mirza Hasan-i-Adib – Bahai Chronicles

Picture #39: Members of the Assembly of ????? Tihrán ……. 1326 Lunar year

Picture #40: Members of the Assembly of ??? Tihrán  1330 Lunar year

Picture #41: Members of Assembly of  ??? Tihrán,   Picture taken at the Atabak Park

Picture #42: Members of the تهذیب????? Committee, Tihrán 1339 Lunar year

Picture #43: Members of the Teaching Council  Tihrán, 1310 Solar Year

Picture #44: Members of the Central Teaching Committee 1314 Solar year- 92 B.E.

Picture # 45: A group of the students at the Bahá’í classes/ 1323 Lunar year

Picture #46: Students at the children’s classes, Tihrán

Picture #47: Mr Kayvan, Mr Shaybani, Dr. Arastou, Dr. Clark, Miss Elizabeth Stewart, and Dr. Susan Moody

Picture #48: A group of the Western Bahá’ís

Picture #49: Mr. ‘Aziz’u’llah Mesbah , Principal of the Bahá’í school for boys for many years