THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1993-11-09

To all National Spiritual Assembliesbeloved f rien

in the message sent last ri¤ván, we drew the attention of the bahá’í

world to the critical need for a massive expansion of the bahá’í community

in the years immediately ahead. The growing receptivity of the peoples of 171.7

172.1

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

66the world to bahá’u’lláh’s message reinforces our conviction that entry by

troops will soon become an established pattern for the growth of the faith

in country after country.

To assist the National Spiritual Assemblies and all the friends to under-

stand, welcome, initiate and sustain this process, we are enclosing a compila-

tion entitled Promoting Entry by Troops and a covering statement prepared by

the research department.172-1 whoever studies these illuminating passages

will perceive that entry by troops is not merely a stage of the progress of the

cause destined to occur in its own good time, dependent on the receptivity

of the population as a whole—it is a phenomenon which the bahá’í com-

munities, by their own activities, can prepare for and help to bring about. it

is also a process which, once started, can be sustained. by a wise allocation

of resources and the energetic pursuit of simultaneous plans of expansion, deepening and consolidation, the process of entry by troops should bring about a rapidly increasing supply of active believers, soundly based local communities, and steadily evolving local and national b ahá’í institutions.

The bahá’í world needs to foster a united clarity of vision for the expan-

sion of the cause and all its agencies, and a wide range of activities suited to

the differing conditions of both the general population and the individual

bahá’ís. we therefore urge the friends, and especially the Assemblies, to

study this compilation, to understand the coherence of its statements, and

to use its counsels to lend a renewed impetus to the spread of the faith and

the establishment of the institutions of the cause of g od.

Above all, in every aspect of teaching the message, the friends should

have confidence in the regenerative power of the word of god, seek strength

from the hosts of divine assistance, and anticipate the bounties that will continually be showered upon them. To build a new world is no easy task.

The road is stony and filled with obstacles, but the journey is infinitely

rewarding.

it is our ardent prayer at the Sacred Threshold that the friends through-

out the world, with their hearts filled with love for bahá’u’lláh, will arise to

teach his message to the thirsting multitudes, and will welcome into his

cause all those whose spirits respond to the divine Summons and who are

moved to throw in their lot with the builders of god’s kingdom on this

earth.

172-1. The compilation is too lengthy to include here; see cc 3, pp. 154–203.172.2

172.3

172.4

172.5

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

67we are confident that, guided and assisted by the counselors and their

auxiliaries, you will be confirmed in your efforts to direct the energies of the

friends towards this momentous undertaking.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

173

Formation of Seven New Spiritual Assemblies

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]