THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1990-04-21

To the b aháís of the w orld

Ridván 1990

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

having ended a year of momentous achievements, we stand at the

threshold of the last decade of this radiant twentieth century facing an im-mediate future of immense challenges and dazzling prospects. The swiftness of events during the past year is indicative of the acceleration, as the hun-

dredth anniversary of bahá’u’lláh’s Ascension approaches, of the spiritual

forces released with the advent of his revolutionizing mission. it is an accel-

eration which, in its suddenness and wide transformational impact on social

thought and on political entities, has aroused feelings of delight as to its

immediate effects and of bewilderment as to its real meaning and destined

outcome, prompting the astonished editors of an outstanding newspaper, finding themselves bereft of explanations, to attribute it to the workings of

an “i nvisible h and.”.89.6

90.1

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

161for the followers of bahá’u’lláh throughout the world there can be no

doubt as to the divine Source and clear intention of these extraordinary

happenings. let us rejoice, therefore, in the wondrous signs of the benefi-

cence of god’s abounding grace. The high level of teaching and enrollments

reported last ri¤ván has been sustained, and new fields of teaching have

been opened from eastern europe to the china Sea. with the settlement

in recent weeks of two knights of bahá’u’lláh in Sakhalin island, the last

remaining territory named by Shoghi effendi in his Ten year global plan

entered the bahá’í fold. The recreation last ri¤ván of the local Spiritual

Assembly of ‘i shqábád, the recent election of that of cluj in romania, the

first new Assembly in the “east bloc,” the reestablishment and formation

this ri¤ván of local Spiritual Assemblies in other parts of the Soviet union

and in other countries of eastern europe—all these achievements and im-

mediate prospects affirm our arrival at a significant milestone in the fourth

epoch of the formative Age. The Administrative order now embraces a

community of wider diversity than ever before. it is such prodigious devel-

opments that prompted our recent announcement of a subsidiary T wo year

Teaching plan, now formally launched, to which we commend your urgent

and active attention.

how staggering, how far-reaching have been the activities which pro-

pelled the community in one short year towards this stage in its evolution!

As we reflect on the wonders of bahá’u’lláh’s confirmations, our hearts turn

with love and appreciation to the hands of the cause of god everywhere,

who, as the standard-bearers of that community, have ever upheld its bright emblems against the darkness of the times. with an indomitable spirit they

persevere in fulfilling, under all circumstances and wherever they may be,

their god-given tasks to stimulate, edify, and advise its widely scattered,

rapidly multiplying members. in the face of the new situation in the bahá’í

world, we take joy in mentioning some instances in the past year of asso-ciation of hands of the cause with the developments in europe and Asia.

Amatu’l-b ahá rú¥íyyih khánum, in an extended journey to the far east,

Spiritual Assembly of macau; spent time with the knight of bahá’u’lláh

in mongolia where subsequently the first native declared her belief in

bahá’u’lláh; and devoted much attention to the friends in different parts of

the people’s republic of china, where her film “The green light expedi-

tion” has been shown on television. mr. collis featherstone focused much

energy on reinvigorating the long-suffering friends in war-ravaged vietnam. 90.2

90.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

162At this very moment, mr. ‘Alí-Akbar furútan is visiting the uSSr, which

he was forced to leave during the persecution of the faith there; now he

has returned in triumphant fulfillment of a wish expressed to him by our

beloved g uardian some sixty years ago.

Nor have the counselor members of the international Teaching center

been slow in responding to opportunities to foster the climate of progress

now evident in all quarters of the globe. Through the unified vision of

growth to which they have called the continental boards of counselors

and their able, hardworking and self-sacrificing auxiliaries, a new vitality can be felt in the expansion and consolidation of the faith throughout the

world. The continental counselors deserve the deep gratitude of the entire

bahá’í community as they approach the close of their current five-year term,

distinguished for their outstanding services.

just as the community has extended its ramifications internally, it has

also expanded its relations, influence and appeal externally in a variety of ways, some astonishing in their breadth and potential. A few examples will suffice: Through the newly established office of the environment, the

bahá’í international community, on its own initiative and in collabora-

tion with other environmental organizations, reinstituted the annual world

forestry charter gathering founded in 1945 by the renowned richard St.

barbe baker; since then the office of the environment has been invited

to participate in important events sponsored by international organiza-tions concerned with environmental questions. The bahá’í international

community has been involved in the work of the Task force for literacy

under the aegis of uNeSco and was invited to participate in the world

conference on education for All held in Thailand, where its representa-

tive was asked to assume a variety of highly visible and important tasks which gave prominence to the bahá’í community. Steps were taken, with

the encouragement of a fijian senior government official, to open in Suva

a branch of the bahá’í international community’s united Nations office

for the pacific region. The university of maryland in the united States

announced its decision to establish “The bahá’í chair for world peace” in

its center for international development and conflict management, which

will give rise to a great increase in academic efforts to examine the cause of

bahá’u’lláh. At almost the same time the National Spiritual Assembly of

india announced that an agreement had been reached to establish a chair

for b ahá’í Studies at the u niversity of i ndore.90.4

90.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

16The continuing efforts to secure the emancipation of the bahá’ís of iran

evolved to a new stage. for the first time, a united Nations representa-

tive was able officially to meet on iranian soil with a representative of the

proscribed bahá’í community. The result was recorded in a report to the

united Nations commission on human rights, at whose recent session in

geneva a resolution on iran mentioning the bahá’ís was again adopted. in

a corollary action of far-reaching importance the united States house of

representatives unanimously adopted a resolution calling for the emancipa-

tion of the iranian bahá’í community and outlining steps to be taken by the

united States government towards this end; a similar resolution is before

the Senate.

in the holy land, preparations for the execution of the building projects

on mount carmel received a definite boost. it is a cause of deep satisfaction

that, on the eve of Naw-rúz, the district Town planning commission, after

delicate and complex negotiations, decided to approve the plan submitted

by the bahá’í world center. This paves the way for the ultimate issuance of

building permits.

beloved friends: merely two years separate us from the conclusion of the

Six year plan and the beginning at ri¤ván 1992 of the holy year, that spe-

cial time when we shall pause to appreciate the tumultuous record of events which will have brought us to the centenary of the Ascension of bahá’u’lláh

and to reflect with due solemnity upon the redemptive purpose of the life of the most precious b eing ever to have drawn breath on this planet.

in anticipation of this high watermark in bahá’í history, plans have been

set in motion for two major world events: one, the gathering in the holy

land of a wide representation of believers from around the globe to partici-pate in a befitting commemoration of that poignant consummation in the vicinity of the most holy Shrine. A component of this commemoration,

symbolic of the transcendent and victorious influence of bahá’u’lláh’s liber-

ated Spirit, will be the depositing beneath the floor at the entrance door of his Shrine of a receptacle containing the illuminated roll of honor of the

knights of bahá’u’lláh, a listing initiated by Shoghi effendi during his Ten

year plan of those intrepid souls who arose to conquer in the Name of their

lord virgin territories mentioned in that plan. This will have brought to a

fitting conclusion, after nearly four decades, an intention expressed by the

beloved guardian himself. The living knights of bahá’u’lláh will be invited

to witness this occurrence.90.6

90.7

90.8

90.9

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

16The other event will be the bahá’í world congress to celebrate the cen-

tennial of the inauguration of the covenant bequeathed to posterity by

bahá’u’lláh as the sure means of safeguarding the unity and integrity of his

world-embracing order. it is to be convened in November 1992 in New

york, the place designated as the city of the covenant by him who is

its appointed center and who anticipated that “New york will become a

blessed spot from which the call to steadfastness in the covenant and Testa-

ment of g od will go forth to every part of the world.”

related events at the local and national levels will combine with these

two primary occasions to give vent to the innermost sentiments of the

bahá’ís and to impress on the public the profound fact of the appearance in

the world of the lord of the covenant and the aims and achievements of

his sublime mission. indeed, plans are in progress to mount an intensive

campaign to emblazon h is Name across the globe.

The friends everywhere must now orient themselves to the significances

of these twin anniversaries. They must be spiritually prepared through

prayer and study of the Teachings to obtain a deeper appreciation of the

station and purpose of bahá’u’lláh and of the basic meaning of his mighty

covenant. Such preparation is at the very core of their striving to effect a

transformation in their individual and collective lives. let all the friends—

every man, woman and youth—demonstrate through the high quality of

their inner life and private character, the unified spirit of their association

one with another, the rectitude of their conduct in relation to all, and the excellence of their achievements, that they belong to a truly enlightened

and exemplary community; that their best beloved, whose Ascension they

will commemorate, had not suffered his life on earth in vain. let these

requisites be the standard of their efforts to teach his cause, the hallmark

of their homage to the king of kings.

our dear and valued coworkers: it is at such a time of profound antici-

pation for us that world society finds itself in a critical phase of its transition

to the character envisioned for it by the lord of the Age. The winds of

god rage on, upsetting old systems, adding impetus to the deep yearning

for a new order in human affairs, and opening the way for the hoisting of the banner of bahá’u’lláh in lands from which it has hitherto been barred.

The rapidity of the changes being wrought stirs up the expectations which

inspire our dreams in the closing decade of the twentieth century. The situ-

ation is equally a bright portent and a weighty challenge.90.10

90.11

90.12

90.13

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

165it is portentous of the profound change in the structure of present-day so-

ciety which attainment to the lesser peace implies. hopeful as are the signs,

we cannot forget that the dark passage of the Age of T ransition has not been

fully traversed; it is as yet long, slippery and tortuous. for godlessness is rife,

materialism rampant. Nationalism and racism still work their treachery in men’s hearts, and humanity remains blind to the spiritual foundations of

the solution to its economic woes. for the bahá’í community the situation

is a particular challenge, because time is running out and we have serious

commitments to keep. The most immediate of these are: one, to teach the

cause of god and build its divinely ordained institutions throughout the

world with wisdom, courage and urgency; and two, to complete on mount

carmel the construction of the Terraces of the Shrine of the báb and the

remaining buildings on the Arc of the world Administrative center of the

faith. The one calls for resolute, sustained and confident action on the part

of the individual believer. The other requires a liberal outpouring of funds. both are intimately related.

over the last two years, almost one million souls entered the cause. The

increasing instances of entry by troops in different places contributed to that growth, drawing attention to Shoghi effendi’s vision which shapes our

perception of glorious future possibilities in the teaching field. for he has

asserted that the process of “entry by troops of peoples of divers nations and

races into the bahá’í world . . . will be the prelude to that long-awaited hour

when a mass conversion on the part of these same nations and races, and as

a direct result of a chain of events, momentous and possibly catastrophic in

nature, and which cannot as yet be even dimly visualized, will suddenly rev-

olutionize the fortunes of the faith, derange the equilibrium of the world,

and reinforce a thousandfold the numerical strength as well as the material power and the spiritual authority of the faith of bahá’u’lláh.”

90-1 we have

every encouragement to believe that large-scale enrollments will expand,

involving village after village, town after town, from one country to another.

however, it is not for us to wait passively for the ultimate fulfillment of

Shoghi effendi’s vision. we few, placing our whole trust in the providence

of god and regarding as a divine privilege the challenges which face us,

must proceed to victory with the plans in hand.

90-1. cf , p. 117 .90.14

90.15

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

166An expansion of thought and action in certain aspects of our work would

enhance our possibilities for success in meeting our aforementioned com-

mitments. Since change, ever more rapid change, is a constant characteristic

of life at this time, and since our growth, size and external relations demand much of us, our community must be ready to adapt. in a sense this means

that the community must become more adept at accommodating a wide

range of actions without losing concentration on the primary objectives of

teaching, namely, expansion and consolidation. A unity in diversity of ac-tions is called for, a condition in which different individuals will concentrate on different activities, appreciating the salutary effect of the aggregate on

the growth and development of the faith, because each person cannot do

everything and all persons cannot do the same thing. This understanding is

important to the maturity which, by the many demands being made upon

it, the community is being forced to attain.

The order brought by bahá’u’lláh is intended to guide the progress and

resolve the problems of society. our numbers are as yet too small to effect an

adequate demonstration of the potentialities inherent in the administrative system we are building, and the efficacy of this system will not be fully ap-

preciated without a vast expansion of our membership. with the prevailing

situation in the world the necessity to effect such a demonstration becomes more compelling. it is all too obvious that even those who rail against the

defects of the old order, and would even tear it down, are themselves bereft of any viable alternative to put in its place. Since the Administrative order

is designed to be a pattern for future society, the visibility of such a pattern

will be a signal of hope to those who despair.

Thus far, we have achieved a marvelous diversity in the large numbers of

ethnic groups represented in the faith, and everything should be done to

fortify it through larger enrollments from among groups already represented and the attraction of members from groups not yet reached. however, there

is another category of diversity which must be built up and without which

the cause will not be able adequately to meet the challenges being thrust

upon it. its membership, regardless of ethnic variety, needs now to embrace

increasing numbers of people of capacity, including persons of accomplish-ment and prominence in the various fields of human endeavor. enrolling

significant numbers of such persons is an indispensable aspect of teaching

the masses, an aspect which cannot any longer be neglected and which must

be consciously and deliberately incorporated into our teaching work, so as to broaden its base and accelerate the process of entry by troops. So important 90.16

90.17

90.18

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

167and timely is the need for action on this matter that we are impelled to call

upon continental counselors and National Spiritual Assemblies to devote

serious attention to it in their consultations and plans.

The affairs of mankind have reached a stage at which increasing calls

will be made upon our community to assist, through advice and practical measures, in solving critical social problems. it is a service that we will gladly

render, but this means that our local and National Spiritual Assemblies

must adhere more scrupulously to principle. with increasing public atten-

tion being focused on the cause of god, it becomes imperative for bahá’í

institutions to improve their performance, through a closer identification

with the fundamental verities of the faith, through greater conformity to

the spirit and form of bahá’í administration and through a keener reliance

on the beneficial effects of proper consultation, so that the communities they guide will reflect a pattern of life that will offer hope to the disillu-

sioned members of society.

That there are indications that the lesser peace cannot be too far dis-

tant, that the local and national institutions of the Administrative order

are growing steadily in experience and influence, that the plans for the construction of the remaining administrative edifices on the Arc are in an advanced stage—that these hopeful conditions make more discernible the shaping of the dynamic synchronization envisaged by Shoghi effendi, no

honest observer can deny.

As a community clearly in the vanguard of the constructive forces at work

on the planet, and as one which has access to proven knowledge, let us be

about our father’s business. he will, from his glorious retreats on high,

release liberal effusions of his grace upon our humble efforts, astonishing us

with the incalculable victories of his conquering power. it is for the unceas-

ing blessings of such a father that we shall continue to supplicate on behalf

of each and every one of you at the Sacred Threshold.

90.20

90.21

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

16891

Commencement of Work on Extension of Terraces

on Mount Carmel

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]