Udo Schaefer
Beyond the Clash
of Religions
The Emergence
of a New Paradigm
Zero Palm Press

Beyond the Clash
of Religions

Udo Schaefer

Beyond the Clash
of Religions
The Emergence
of a New Paradigm
Zero Palm Press

Zero Palm Press
P. O. Box 38186, SE-10064 Stockholm, Sweden


Original German language edition:
Heilsgeschichte und Paradigmenwechsel. Zwei Beiträge zur Baha-’i- Theologie
© Zero Palm Press, Prague 1992
First revised English edition:
Beyond the Clash of Religions. The Emergence of a New Paradigm
Zero Palm Press, Prague 1995
Translated from the German by Dr. Geraldine Schuckelt

Second revised edition


Copyright © Zero Palm Press 1998
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Printed in Sweden

To my wife
Sigrun
curarum laborumque sociae


Preface to the Second Edition
This work has been so well received1 that a second edition has
been prepared, providing an opportunity to eliminate a number
of errors which had been overlooked in the first. I am deeply
indebted to Nancy Ackerman, in Moscow, for polishing the
English translation and for making editorial suggestions.

Autumn 1997










U. S.














Cf. The reviews of Loni-Bramson-Lerche, in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 7.1
(March-June 1995), p. 91ff. and of Christopher Buck in The Baha-’i- Studies Re-
view, vol. 6, 1996, pp. 68ff.


Table of Contents
Preface ...................................................................................... 13
TIME OF THE END OR A NEW ERA?

The Survival Crisis ................................................................... 19
The Time of the End—a Biblical Topos ................................... 22
The Spirit of the Enlightenment................................................ 28
The Secularization of the World ............................................... 29
The Spiritual Vacuum ............................................................... 34
New Offers of Salvation—New Age ........................................ 37
A New Epiphany....................................................................... 41
The New Paradigm ................................................................... 45
Cardinal Differences ................................................................. 49
The Future................................................................................. 51
ON THE DIVERSITY AND UNITY OF RELIGIONS

I.
Prefatory Note on the Concept of Paradigm.................... 57
II.
The New Paradigm: Unity............................................... 58
III.  The Diversity of Religions............................................... 59
IV.  The Absoluteness and the Relativity of Religious
Claims to Truth ................................................................ 60
V.
Uniqueness, Finality and Exclusivity of Revelation........ 63
VI.  Practical Intolerance as a Consequence of Dogmatic
Intolerance ....................................................................... 74
VII.  The Attitude Towards Past Traditions ............................. 77


VIII.  Promoters of Tolerance, Dialogue and the Unity of
Religions.......................................................................... 83
IX. The Role of Comparative Religious Studies ................... 97
X.
Una Religio in Rituum Varietate.....................................110
XI.  The New Paradigm: Progressive Revelation ................. 122
1.  The Hidden God ....................................................... 124
2.  The Self-Revealing God ........................................... 125
3.  The Nature of the Manifestations ............................. 126
4.  God’s Representatives on Earth ............................... 132
5.  Authority and Sovereignty........................................ 133
6.  The Minor Prophets.................................................. 134
7.  The Unity of the Manifestations............................... 135
8.  The Relativity of Divine Revelation......................... 137
9.  The Purpose of Revelation: the Education
of Humanity ............................................................. 141
10. The Vertical and Horizontal Dimensions ................ 143
11. Divine Reformation ................................................. 146
12. The Creative Word .................................................. 147
13. A Paradigm Shift ..................................................... 149
14. The Eye of Oneness................................................. 154
15. The Spirit of Fraternity............................................ 157
Bibliography ........................................................................... 159
Index of Names....................................................................... 175
General Index.......................................................................... 178


Preface
I.
At the heart of Baha-’u’lla-h’s revelation is a new concept of the
history of salvation. Both essays presented in this book are fo-
cused on this subject. The first deals with the future of human-
ity and characterizes Heilsgeschichte—the divine Plan of sal-
vation for mankind—as a never-ending process open to the fu-
ture. The second essay goes on to present the entire history of
religion as Heilsgeschichte, a continuous process of salvation
structured by the epiphanies of the revealed religions.
The first essay, “Time of the End” addresses the apocalyptic
perspectives of our civilization and the fears they provoke. It
demonstrates why the expectation of the complete annihilation of
humanity cannot be justified by reference to the apocalyptical
writings of the Bible, and argues that the global upheaval we are
witnessing today might rather be interpreted as an epochal turn-
ing-point, the beginning of a new era. Consideration is given both
to the causes of this crisis faced by mankind and to the new ideas
and ways of thinking inspired as a response to it. The final part of
the essay presents two contrasting Heilsangebote (offers of salva-
tion): the multifaceted New Age movement and the religion
founded by Baha-’u’lla-h; and makes apparent not only the several
superficial features they have in common, but also the cardinal
differences.
The second essay,  “On the Diversity and Unity of Religions,”
examines the phenomenon of the plurality of religions. When
there is but one God, why are there different religions? In the past,
claims to exclusiveness, finality and uniqueness, made above all
by the Semitic religions, have led to isolation, mutual damnation
and indescribable sufferings, all inflicted on human beings in the
name of religion. Nevertheless, over the centuries in all religions


there have been individuals who rebelled against narrow dogma-
tism, and raised their voices for a more understanding judgement
on other religions. The modern comparative study of religions has
greatly contributed to our knowledge about them, whereas in the
past their proponents disputed with one another without really
knowing their counterparts. Such knowledge is the prerequisite for
a dialogue, a dialogue which has begun in recent years, signalizing
the “slow awakening of global ecumenical consciousness.”* The
“unity of religions” has been made visible by religious phenome-
nology. As the new paradigm of a progressive, cyclically recurring
divine revelation, it has become the pivot of a new theology.**
II.
A French edition of this book has been published by the Asso-
ciation d’Études Baha-’i-e (Europe-francophone) under the title
Histoire du Salut et Changement de Paradigme. Deux
Contributions à la Théologie Baha-’i-e, Genève 1993. For this
English edition, the original text has been revised and enlarged.

*
Hans Küng, Christianity and the Religions of the World, p. XIV.
** The term “Baha-’i- theology” is used for a methodical, systematic reflection on the
Baha-’i- revelation (scientia fidei), comprising God who manifests himself, the
“Manifestation” (i. e., the  prophetology), the  Covenant, the image of man (the
Baha-’i- anthropology), Baha-’i- ethics, Baha-’i- political thought, social principles etc.
God Himself remains an “impenetrable mystery,” an “unknowable essence”
(Gleanings 26:3). I refer to Robert Parry’s “Philosophical Theology in Baha-’i-
Scholarship,” in: Baha-’i- Studies Bulletin (ed. Stephen Lambden) October 1992,
pp. 66ff. and to Jack McLean’s highly instructive contribution “Prolegomena to a
Baha-’i- Theology,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 5.1, March-June 1992,
pp. 25-67, in which he has defined the concept of Baha-’i- theology more closely
and argued for its validity as a discipline. He has, moreover, considered the rela-
tivity of religious truth in its relationship to the Absolute, discussed aspects of
apophatic (negative) and cataphatic (affirmative) theology in relation to the hidden
and manifest God, and explored aspects of Baha-’i- cosmology based on Baha-’u’lla-
h’s Lawh.-i-Kullu’t.-T. a‘a-m (The Tablet of All Food; cf. A. Taherzadeh, The Revela-
tion of Baha-’u’lla-h, vol. 1, p. 55-60).

I should like to express my sincere gratitude to all those who
have contributed to the publication of the English edition. Thanks
are due, in particular, to Dr. Geraldine Schuckelt for sacrificing
her time to the laborious task of translating the original manuscript
and to Mrs. Hélène Momtaz de Neri and Mrs. Susanne Hof for
their preliminary work on the translation. I am also very grateful
to Mrs. Heidi Grebacher for her careful critical review of the
translation and her valuable suggestions; to my publisher, Bonian
Golmohammadi, for his advice; and last but not least, to my wife
Sigrun for the countless hours she has spent in libraries seeking
out the English editions of the works cited and in sitting in front of
the computer in order to make this publication ready for print.
As to the quotations from the Writings of the Ba-b, Baha-’u’lla-h
and ‘Abdu’l-Baha-: I am following the numbering system introduc-
ed by the German Baha-’i- Verlag, which enables the reader to find
any quotation in any non-English edition of these sacred texts. The
given numbers refer to the paragraph of the respective Eng-
lish/American edition unless a page number is given.

January 1995


U. S.



Time of the End
or
A New Era?

The Survival Crisis
Concepts such as the “time of the end,” the “end of the world,”
the “end of history”1 or the “last days” appear with increasing
frequency in a certain genre of literature: that concerned with
the current crisis of civilization on our planet. Referring to the
global upheavals of our time, physicist and philosopher Carl
Friedrich von Weizsäcker has remarked that “the most clearly
evident feature of modern times... is the state of crisis in which
we find ourselves.”2 One has an overwhelming sense of being
poised at a decisive point in the history of the world, and of
humanity as a whole being on the brink of a catastrophe, its
very existence at stake.
Whereas in the mid-1960s futurologists were still predicting a
brilliant future in a paradise of wealth and leisure, and in the early
1970s the first ecologists who criticized our economic system with
its emphasis on unbridled growth and profit-making were dis-
missed in both East and West as “scaremongers,” renowned scien-
tists are today themselves forecasting planetary catastrophe on the
basis of incontrovertible facts and figures. The widespread use by
philosophers, politicians, academics and journalists of the term
“apocalypse”—a religious concept that until recently no person
mindful of his academic reputation would have uttered serious-
ly3—is in itself evidence of the dimension of the threat.
The crisis is total and global: total, because it implicates every
aspect of our existence; global, because in an interdependent

Martin Meyer, Ende der Geschichte?, München 1993; F. Fukuyama, “The End of
History?,” in: The National Interest, 16, 1989; Perry Anderson, Zum Ende der Ge-
schichte, Berlin 1993; Alexander Demandt, Endzeit? Die Zukunft der Geschichte,
Berlin 1993.
Wahrnehmung der Neuzeit, p. 7.
The subtitle of Rudolf Bahro’s book Logik der Rettung (Stuttgart 1987) is: “Wer
kann die Apocalypse aufhalten?” (“Who Can Stop the Apocalypse?”).


world society there are no longer any “empty spaces” and every-
one is directly affected. There is nowhere to flee.
The literal meaning of the Greek word krisis is “decision” or
“turning-point,” and there really is no better word to describe the
world situation. For humanity, the crisis is one of survival. After
an era of seemingly never-ending scientific and technical triumphs
in which human intelligence appeared to conquer all in its path,
but at the same time provoke incredible dangers, we have now
reached a point at which we are left with only two alternatives: the
first is the annihilation of humanity, the end of civilization on this
planet, either in a nuclear inferno or more probably through a slow
process of decomposition caused by the increasing devastation of
the earth and the irreversible damage being wrought upon the eco-
logical system;4 the second is an about-face, a fundamental trans-
formation of consciousness, attitudes, ethical values and political
existence. Is such a transformation still possible, and if so, whence
is it to come?
Many voices are already proclaiming that it is too late, that the
point of no return has already been reached. The philosopher Gün-
ther Anders5 uses the term “apocalypse blindness” in reference to
the consciousness of modern man; like the sorcerer’s apprentice6
in the famous ballad by Goethe, we have, he says, become prison-

Cf. the discussion of the “Bergedorfer Gesprächskreis” on the subject “The Eco-
logical About-Face – Does it Still Stand a Chance?” (Protokoll no. 85, 1988).
Die Antiquiertheit des Menschen, vol. 1, p. 233.
Der Zauberlehrling: “A young man apprenticed to a sorcerer decides to try out
what he has learned while the sorcerer is absent. He commands a broom to fetch
water from a nearby river and to fill the bath inside the house. The broom obeys
and soon the bath is filled, but, not knowing the magic word, the apprentice cannot
stop the broom. In desperation, he cuts the broom in two using an axe. Now both
halves start to bring more and more water, until a flood threatens to engulf the
house. Finally, the sorcerer returns and puts an end to the disaster. The story which
originates from the Greek satirical author Lucian (circa 120-160 A. D.) and which
has been set to music by Paul Dukas (L’apprenti sorcier) is perhaps best known to
English-speaking readers through the animated film Fantasia by Walt Disney, in
which the role of the apprentice is played by the cartoon character Mickey Mouse.

ers of our own machinery and material objects, and are unable to
escape from this self-imposed captivity.7 He argues most vigor-
ously that mankind is no longer living in an epoch, but only in the
brief period remaining before the ultimate end, the inexorable end
of time. Hoimar von Ditfurth regards mankind’s chances of sur-
vival as “desperately slim.”8 He finds it difficult to understand
why “humanity seems determined to surrender to the course of
events without showing any resistance, and that it is not even pre-
pared to acknowledge the extent to which it has gone astray.”9 The
historian Alexander Demandt regards a tragic end to humanity as
“probable if existing problems intensify... One can imagine a state
where the inhabitants of the earth regret having missed a nuclear
disaster.”10
The utter disillusionment of all human hopes is reflected in a
cynical book: Das Untier.11 This is the term by which its author,
Ulrich Horstmann, designates man, whom he perceives only as the
personification of his inferior traits—avarice, hatred and destruc-
tiveness. According to Horstmann the apocalypse awaits this
“monster,” thus bringing history to an end in a final catastrophe,

“What Goethe described in poetic form as a horrifying and exceptional occurrence
is happening to us all the time...; the broomsticks, which in this parable take on a
life of their own, are our technical installations – the power stations, nuclear mis-
siles, space equipment, and the industrial plants required to produce these things;
Together these make up our everyday world... Furthermore, these ‘spirits’ are in
the habit of expanding and reproducing... They are becoming more and more inde-
pendent of human control, and, conversely, are making us ever more dependent on
them through their power and autonomy. Since in his story Goethe had the robot
work on as a pair of robots after it was split in two, the writer evidently envisaged
such accumulation... Whereas in Goethe’s work it was a single, enchanted broom-
stick (and then a pair of broomsticks), we are living today in an ever denser forest
of broomsticks. And since there is no way to cut down this forest or to flee from it,
this is our world” (Die Antiquiertheit des Menschen, vol. 2, pp. 401ff.).
So laßt uns denn ein Apfelbäumchen pflanzen, p. 7.
Ibid. p.14.
10 Endzeit? pp. 149ff.
11 “The Monster.”


removing all traces of its existence, what he calls the “mooning”
of the earth.12
The Time of the End—a Biblical Topos
The general mood would appear to suggest that the time of the
end is at hand. Is the history of mankind about to terminate?
The terms “time of the end,” “last days,” “end of the world,”
etc., are references to prophecies made in the Old and New Tes-
taments. According to Christian interpretation, history is mov-
ing towards a goal, a final and unique event: the Last Judge-
ment. After a period of suffering, torment and horror, the world
will be annihilated in a huge catastrophe. Are the events that we
are living through today, and those which are still to come what
is meant by this apocalyptic horror? Has the time come?13
Anticipation of the “end of the world” is, of course, nothing
new. Such expectations14 have surged repeatedly in times of crisis,
especially around the years 1000, 1260 and 1844, years associated
with biblical dates and calculations. Whereas in the past it was
only the pious who expected the end of the world, while the intel-
lectuals maintained a sceptical attitude, today the talk that is heard
about the imminent catastrophe, the “Apocalypse,” comes not
from the churches—with the exception of a few Adventist sects—
but from scientists and philosophers. Indeed, the destruction of the
entire human race was never before technically feasible, and hence
as possible, or even probable, as it is today, given the potential of
modern technology. Not only man as an individual is mortal: our
whole species is under threat of extinction.

12 Das Untier, pp. 7, 113.
13 “Es ist soweit” (The Time Has Come) is the subtitle of the book by Hoimar von
Ditfurth (cf. footnote 8).
14 for more details see A. Demandt, Endzeit?, pp. 23-45.

The Book of Isaiah states that the Lord “maketh the earth
empty, and maketh it waste;”15 that “the earth mourneth and
fadeth away;”16 that “they that dwell therein are desolate;”17 that
“all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone;”18 that “the
earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard;”19 and that “the inhabi-
tants of the earth are burned and few men left.”20 However one
chooses to interpret these words, it is hard to imagine that this
prophecy is not related to the global upheavals and disasters oc-
curring today.
Doomsday, however, is not the last word of the Apocalypse.
Beyond all these horrific happenings it foresees “a new heaven
and a new earth: wherein dwelleth righteousness;”21 it promises
“the tabernacle of God is among men”22 who “will be his peo-
ple;”23 it announces that God will dry all tears24 and promises:
“Behold, I am making all things new!”25 These promises clearly
indicate a total transformation of man and the world, a new begin-
ning associated with the expectation of the return of the Christ,
whatever that is understood to mean. Further evidence in favour of
this interpretation is the fact that wherever mention is made in the
Gospel of the end of the world,26 the Greek original uses the term
aion, a time-concept, rather than the term kosmos, as it would have
if it meant the end of our existence on the planet Earth.27

15 Isa. 24:1.
16 Ibid. 24:4.
17 Ibid. 24:6.
18 Ibid. 24:11.
19 Ibid. 24:20.
20 Ibid. 24:6.
21 Isa. 65:17; Rev. 21:1; II Peter 3:13.
22 Rev. 21:3.
23 Ibid.
24 Rev. 21:4.
25 Rev. 21:5.
26 Matt. 24:3; 28:20.
27 The word aion is related to the Aramaic ‘olam (Arabic ‘a-lam), which has been
translated by the Jewish scholar Martin Buber as “era,” “age.”


According to the prophecies of the Old Testament, too, the
judgement at the time of the apocalypse is not the end of history.
Instead, it is a turning-point leading to a universal transformation
of human existence in the form of a new covenant of peace em-
bracing all the peoples of the world, enabling them to live thence-
forth in a state of permanent peace.28 Thus, those who assert that
the annihilation of the world is inevitable are not justified in refer-
ring to the biblical apocalypse in support of their arguments.
For many people there is no doubt that mankind’s crisis of sur-
vival and the fundamental changes that have been taking place on
a global scale over the past hundred years mark a monumental hia-
tus in the history of the human race. It has been compared to the
Neolithic revolution, the transition to the New Stone Age begin-
ning around 6000 B. C., which brought about agriculture and ani-
mal husbandry. A transformation of such significance certainly
justifies our speaking of it as a new era. The new era which was
inaugurated through the birth of Christ is reflected in the fact that
events in the new (Christian) calendar were recorded in years as
post christum natum rather than as in the Roman as ab urbe con-
dita. This new era is designated in German by a special term Zeit-
wende, which suggests a far more revolutionary turn of events
than its English equivalent and which is not used in any other con-
text. Few would venture to describe the equally revolutionary
events of our times as constituting a Zeitwende, perhaps because
the term is associated with a salvation figure, Christ, and hardly
anyone is interested in a new salvation figure.
On the other hand, much use is made of the term “New Age;”
indeed, it has become the slogan of a movement claiming the abil-
ity to save humanity from the crisis in which it finds itself. Having
originated in California, the movement has spread over nearly all
of the Western Hemisphere and calls itself New Age. The best

28 Isa. 2:2ff.; 65:17; 66:22; Ez. 34:25; 37:26; Micah 4:1-4.

known protagonists in the movement are the science-journalist
Marilyn Ferguson with her book The Aquarian Conspiracy29 and
the physicist Fritjof Capra with his best-seller The Turning
Point.30 The latter is an impressive contribution highlighting the
recent changes in attitudes evident in physics, biology, medicine
and economics. He attributes these changes to a developing new
consciousness in twentieth-century science, a consciousness which
he describes as mystic.31 Further terms to signify the dawning of
the new age include “the age of Aquarius,”32 “the solar age”, “the
ecological age” and the like. This movement is announcing to an
angst-ridden world a time of change in which man, by transform-
ing his consciousness, will abandon his old ways and enter a new
state of existence called “cosmic consciousness,” through which
all his affairs will be set right again. We shall come back to this
subject later.

29 Personal and Social Transformation in the 1980s, Los Angeles 1980.
30 Science, Society and the Rising Culture, London 1982.
31 op. cit., p. 323. Additional references: Ken Wilber, Up from Eden: A Transper-
sonal View of Human Evolution, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1983; Robert
Muller, New Genesis – Shaping a Global Spirituality, Garden City, N. Y.: Double-
day, 1982; Theodor Roszak, Unfinished Animal. The Aquarian Frontier and the
Evolution of Consciousness, New York 1977; David Spangler, Revelation – The
Birth of a New Age, Findhorn Foundation, The Park, Forres/Scotland, 1977; ibid.,
Reflections on the Christ, Findhorn Publications, Findhorn, Moray/Scotland 11977;
Brockway, Allan R./Rajashekar J. Paul (eds.), New Religious Movements and the
Churches. Report and Papers of a Consultation Sponsored by the Lutheran World
Federation and the World Council of Churches, Geneva: WCC Publications, 1987;
C. E. Cumbey, The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow. The New Age-Movement and
Our Coming Age of Barbarism, Shreveport 1983; Erich Jantsch, Die Selbstorgani-
sation des Universums, München 21984; Elmar Gruber, Was ist New Age? Bewußt-
seinstransformation und neue Spiritualität, Freiburg 1987; Hans-Jürgen Ruppert,
New Age. Endzeit oder Wendezeit?, Wiesbaden 1985.
32 The term “Age of Aquarius” is taken from astrology. It is based on Plato’s calcula-
tion of the time it takes for the sun to move through all the signs of the zodiac,
namely 25,200 years. Approximately 2,100 years are required for each sign. Ac-
cording to these calculations, we are living at a time of transition from the sign of
Pisces – the Christian era – to that of Aquarius.


It is not only the protagonists of the New Age movement who
perceive the dawning of a new day, however. Scientists and phi-
losophers who are ill-disposed towards mystical speculation, such
as Ervin Laszlo, a founder-member of the Club of Rome, also
speak of a new age. They recognize that our complex world is ap-
proaching a climactic change that will shake the world within our
lifetime. Their predictions emanate with stunning clarity from sci-
entific data available today.33 A new age: herein lies the scientifi-
cally justifiable hope that the global crisis need not necessarily
culminate in the destruction of humanity and in the end of civiliza-
tion. On the contrary, periods of bifurcation34 give mankind the
opportunity to influence the otherwise arbitrary fluctuations of so-
cial existence, and hence, to direct the process from within.
But how should this be done? What should our aims and our
values be? What vision do we have of a world that is in equilib-
rium?
If we wish to find a way out of the crisis we must first under-
stand what has led to the crisis and what constitutes it. It is there-
fore necessary to outline some of the complex developments of the
history of Western philosophy.
The crisis whose catastrophic consequences we are witnessing
today is a crisis of Western thought. By the nineteenth-century it
was already well underway and understood with astonishing clar-
ity by philosophers and theologians as such. In his work The Con-
cept of Dread,35 published in 1844, Sören Kierkegaard proclaimed

33 Global denken, p. 43.
34 This term is used in dynamic systems theory to describe the sudden change of di-
rection in the evolution of a system. When a critical point is reached, the order col-
lapses. The order changes in a chaotic way until a new order sets in (Laszlo, op.
cit., p. 39ff.). Cf. also Idem, “Footnotes to a History of the Future,” in: Futures
(October 1988, pp. 479-492); Idem, The Age of Bifurcation, New-York-London
1992. See also ch. II of the following essay, p. 58ff.
35 Translated with introduction and notes by Walter Lowrie, London: Oxford Univer-
sity Press, 1944.

an age of fear. Friedrich Nietzsche has been called the Cassandra36
of modern culture, for unlike any previous writer he described in
overwhelmingly powerful language the banality and triviality of
modern life and the mortal sickness afflicting our civilization. He
foresaw “a period of gloom and eclipse, the like of which has
probably never taken place on earth before... A lengthy, vast and
uninterrupted process of grumbling, destruction, ruin and over-
throw which is now imminent.”37
In contrast to the dominant Zeitgeist of the period, which was
characterized by the optimistic belief in progress, the hypothesis
of a Western cultural crisis had, by the turn of the century, already
gained widespread acceptance among intellectuals, regardless of
their philosophical or ideological persuasion. After World War I,
Oswald Spengler38 aroused shock with his theory of the ageing of
cultures and his vision of the downfall of the West. In 1931, the
philosopher Karl Jaspers wrote: “The belief in the dawn of a mag-
nificent future is offset by the horror of an abyss from which there
is no hope of rescue.”39 In 1959 the author Ernst Jünger, describ-
ing the visions of decline and the inevitability of the catastrophe,
stated: “We are at the midnight of history, the hour of twelve has
struck and we are looking out into darkness.”40
In the middle of the nineteenth century, from an entirely differ-
ent cultural milieu then largely untouched by the spirit of modern-
ism, came a prophetic voice announcing to mankind the warning
of its impending demise. It predicted severe suffering, ordeals and
disasters that would constitute divine Judgement, but also prom-

36 Daughter of King Priam of Troy, gifted with the power of prophecy, but con-
demned by Apollo to be always disbelieved.
37 The Joyful Wisdom, no 343.
38 The Decline of the West, 2 vols., New York: Knopf, 1946.
39 Die geistige Situation der Zeit, p. 16.
40 An der Zeitmauer, pp. 100, 166ff., 172ff.


ised the transformation to a new state of existence. We shall come
back to this subject in due course.
The Spirit of the Enlightenment
The global crisis originated in the Copernican transformation of
European thinking in the 17th century, a transformation which
was epitomized by such men as Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton,
Francis Bacon and, in particular, René Descartes. This philoso-
phical movement, the Western Enlightenment, was dominated
by the idea of the absolute certainty of rational knowledge.
Descartes exalted doubt to a method of analysis, laying the
foundation for modern scientific thought and research. In the
modern world, with its emphasis on science and technology, he
saw nature and the universe as a perfect machine, functioning
in accordance with rigid mechanical laws. He considered the
whole of material existence explicable in terms of the arrange-
ment and movement of its constituent parts. “To measure all
that is measurable, and to render measurable what is not so,”
such was Galileo’s formula.
This mechanical image of the world has remained the dominant
paradigm41 in the natural sciences well into this century. Only
with the introduction of modern quantum theory has the limits of
this paradigm become evident. Capra has rightly pointed out that
the ruthless subjection and unscrupulous exploitation of nature has
had its basis in the thinking of Descartes and of Francis Bacon.42
After the geocentric image of the universe was overcome, man

41 From Greek paradeigma = a pattern. Here a pattern of thinking: this concept is of
key importance in the work of the American physicist and science historian Tho-
mas S. Kuhn (The Structure of Scientific Revolutions). The term “paradigm”
“stands for the entire constellation of beliefs, values, techniques, and so on shared
by the members of a given community” (Kuhn, op. cit., p. 175); that is to say a
model of explanation. See also ch. II of the following essay.
42 The Turning Point, pp. 24, 72ff.

himself became the central point of all existence—the geocentric
world view was replaced by an anthropocentric one.
This powerful current of thought, the Enlightenment—
described by Kant as “man’s emergence from his self-imposed
immaturity”43—was the belief in the rational transparency of the
world. It was the belief—in the words of Max Weber—“that no
mysterious and incalculable forces exist..., and that, in principle,
all things can be mastered through calculation. This amounts to
the de-mystification of the world.”44
The words of Horace, “sapere aude!,” became the slogan of
the Enlightenment.45 This philosophy has led directly to the belief
that not only nature but also society can be manipulated, and to the
idea that through rational action man has the unlimited capacity of
bringing about universal human happiness.
The Secularization of the World
This spirit of modernism has fundamentally altered the face of
the world we live in. It has led to the development of science
and technology, to the principle of instrumental rationality and,
hence, to such values as freedom from presuppositions, the use
of methodical discipline and objectivity. In the field of law, the
Western Enlightenment gained major victories over barbarism:
indeed, it is to this that we owe such principles as equality be-
fore the law and the separation of powers (Montesquieu), the
triumphant progress of democracy, the abolition of torture and
the humanization of penal law: in short, to Western Enlighten-
ment we owe the modern constitutional state, which binds the

43 An Answer to the Question: ‘What is Enlightenment?,’ p. 54.
44 “Science as Vocation,” p.139.
45 Translated by Kant in his essay “An Answer to the Question: ‘What is Enlighten-
ment?’” as “Have courage to use your own understanding!.”


power of the rulers to the law and protects the citizen from
governmental despotism.
Simultaneously, however, Enlightenment philosophy prompted
a severe crisis of religious belief. The spirit of critical questioning
penetrated every sphere of life, sweeping away the old authorities
that for so long were held to be beyond all doubt. In reply to Na-
poleon’s enquiry as to the place of God in his system, the French
mathematician and astronomer Laplace46 declared “I have no need
of this hypothesis, Sir.” Once reason laid claim to autonomy and
took possession of the throne, which until then had been reserved
for faith, the truth of divine revelation was disputed and religion
was pronounced superfluous, even harmful. It has been one of the
central dogmas of Enlightenment philosophy that in the wake of
scientific, cultural and social progress religion will gradually die
out—and over the past 300 years it has indeed been on the retreat.
The Enlightenment brought about the increasing secularization of
the world, while the 19th century saw the philosophical critique of
religion by Feuerbach, Marx, Nietzsche and Freud. They shattered
the traditional religious image of man and the world. Nietzsche’s
“God is dead!” took on slogan-quality. Since that time the non-
religious, secular society and the mature, self-determining and
self-realizing individual have become both reference point and ob-
jective.47
In the communist countries, atheism was (and is still48) an es-
sential part of official state doctrine; but in the industrialized coun-
tries of the West, too, the masses have become indifferent towards
religion. The tradition of lived faith has been uprooted.
The crisis in the Christian faith cannot be discussed in detail
here. It manifests itself in the withering of religious traditions, in

46 Pierre Simon Marquis de Laplace (1749-1823).
47 cf. Heinz Zahrnt, Gotteswende, p. 24ff.
48  in China, North Korea, Cuba.

the exodus from the Church,49 in the dramatic decline in the sig-
nificance of Christian convictions, and in the state of the belief
structures of the remaining members of the Church. It is demon-
strated most clearly of all in the crisis into which Christian theol-
ogy itself has plunged.50 The crisis is also reflected in the increas-
ing rejection of institutionalized Christianity among the youth, and
their turning instead towards radical worldliness and self-
centredness: “The average day-to-day beliefs consist in the secular
nature of values and the ideal of mental autarchy for the autono-
mous individual, who puts his faith only in that which he knows to
be verifiable from his own experience (or through science working
on his behalf).”51
This “twilight of the gods” which is advancing “into nothing-
ness with a radicality hitherto unknown” was described by the phi-
losopher Karl Jaspers in 1931 in the following terms:
A sense of desolation such as never experienced before can
now be felt, something against which even the most radical un-

49 In Germany, every year several hundred thousand Catholics and Protestants resign
from Church membership; in 1991 more than 500 000.
50 This subject is dealt with in Udo Schaefer, The Imperishable Dominion, pp. 15-23;
cf. also Cardinal Friedrich Wetter, “Zur Glaubenssituation in Deutschland,” in: zur
debatte, 19.1 (Jan./Feb. 1989), p. 2ff.
51 Heiner Barz, Postmoderne Religion. Jugend und Religion, vol. 2, p. 261. In this
study, commissioned by the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Evangelischer Jugendverbände,
Barz comes to the conclusion that the young generation is characterized by the re-
jection of any doctrine and by suspicion of all traditions received from their par-
ents and any institutions, and that they see in the Church primarily a “power appa-
ratus” identical with that of the Party, the State or the Tax Office (p. 172). Accord-
ing to Barz, the Christian image of Jesus and the symbols of Christianity are of lit-
tle relevance, and the teachings of the religion are frequently unknown. The con-
cept of “sin” is either unknown or dismissed as “outdated” (p. 137). Barz speaks of
the “subjectivization of truth,” through which “the sacred” has become changeable
and unstable like work or fashion (p. 251). Among these young people the Asiatic
religions have a generally better “image” because they also offer techniques for
self-discovery in a private search for the meaning of life (p. 252).


belief of Antiquity was shielded by the abundance of forms of a
never abandoned mythical reality.52
The theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer was of the opinion that the
process of secularization could no longer be reversed, and that
a time was approaching when religion would cease to exist:
“We are moving towards a completely religionless time, people
as they are now simply cannot be religious any more.”53 An-
other theologian, Heinz Zahrnt, acknowledges “the destruction
of the very essence of religion: Something has really come to
its final end in our times. Things will never again be as they
were.”54
The spiritual vacuum left behind by the gradually dying Chris-
tian faith has been infiltrated by a new, secular form of religiosity:
faith in reason and in progress; belief in the consummation of his-
tory through science and technology; and faith in mankind’s abil-
ity to create a better world, a paradise on earth. The attainment of
happiness on earth through the revolutionizing of society as a
whole—such is the manifesto of political messianism.55 This secu-
lar religion of social salvation, whose tenets are the teachings of
the French Enlightenment philosophers, clothed in the garments of
science, has been substituted for the promise of salvation in the
hereafter.
Ideology and utopian ideals, with their claims to unlimited au-
thority and their promises of salvation, have taken the place of be-
lief in divine revelation. The sense of purpose once provided by
religion has been replaced by a sociological interpretation of exis-
tence. The individual, who now sees himself merely as a “social
being” and no longer as one created by God, is concerned only

52 Die geistige Situation der Zeit, p. 16.
53 Letters and Papers from Prison, p. 279.
54 The Question of God, p.139.
55 cf. J. L. Talmon, Political Messianism. The Romantic Phase, London 1960.

with his social salvation, while the question of his soul and its sal-
vation no longer has any relevance for him.56
“God will vanish without leaving even a trace of a question be-
hind him.”57 In making this prophecy, however, the French phi-
losopher and founder of sociology Auguste Comte58 has been
grossly mistaken. It is the spirit of modernism itself which is in
crisis: the foundations of secular faith, such as the belief in science
and the omnipotence of reason, political messianism, the secular
answers to the question of purpose and the secular promises of
salvation, which were established in place of the old religions—all
these are now exhausted. Belief in the ultimate realization of hu-
man happiness has disintegrated. The utopia of a man-made para-
dise on earth has failed. Within but a few years the optimistic be-
lief in progress stemming from the Enlightenment has suddenly
turned into profound pessimism. Today the process of progress
that until recently inspired hope, provokes only fear.
The decay of belief in progress shattered the main pillar of
secular faith in the meaning of history: “The paradise on earth
proclaimed by revolutionaries, eloquent politicians and charis-
matic leaders has not appeared.”59 Faith in enlightened reason,
which still inspired the radical student protests of 1968 suffered a
similar fate. In the face of the disasters for which it is historically
responsible, reason appears to have lost much of its legitimizing
power. Proponents of left-wing utopias have resigned themselves
to the failure of their revolutionary hopes, their dreams of freedom
and of changing the world.60 The late philosopher Michel Fou-

56 cf. U. Schaefer, The Imperishable Dominion, p. 10ff.
57 Quoted in: Karl Lehmann, Vom Sinn christlicher Existenz zwischen Enthusiasmus
und Institution, p. 47.
58 1798–1857.
59 Wolfgang Kraus, Nihilismus heute, p. 138.
60 “Mortal dreams through which passes a caravan of icebergs” is how they are de-
scribed by Hans-Magnus Enzensberger in his epic “Der Untergang der Titanic”
(“The Sinking of the Titanic”), a parable about the state of the world.


cault saw in the world “not a single point through which a ray of
hope could shine. There is no orientation any more.”61 Jürgen
Habermas, one of the most prominent contemporary German phi-
losophers in the tradition of the Frankfurt School, speaks of the
exhaustion of utopian energies and diagnoses a feeling of perplex-
ity among intellectuals and politicians, and the loss of confidence
in Western culture.62 Only recently we experienced the shattering
of an idea whose goal was the creation of a man-made paradise
but which—in the Soviet Union alone—led to the largest mass-
extermination of all times.63 In the past few years a storm of
change has swept over the former socialist world and the idols
worshipped for so long have fallen from their pedestals.
The Spiritual Vacuum
Thus the spirit of modernism has not succeeded in filling the
immense vacuum left by the slowly dwindling Christian faith.
When it comes to such fundamental questions as “What is
man?,” “What is the purpose of his existence and how should
he live?,” reason and science have let us down. Answers to the
question of the meaning of life and the question of basic values,
along with a binding image of what man is, have not been pro-

61 Stated in a radio interview.
62 Die neue Unübersichtlichkeit, p. 143.
63 In seventy years of despotism in the Soviet Union, “more people than ever before
or since in human history were exterminated” (Sergei Solowjow, Radio Moscow,
quoted in Süddeutsche Zeitung, 17 August 1990) through concentration camps, de-
portations, famines (resulting from the forced collectivization of agriculture), reli-
gious and political persecution. For the consolidation of its “stone-age commu-
nism,” the Pol-Pot regime in Cambodia annihilated around one million people, ap-
proximately a quarter of the population, predominantly the educated and intellec-
tuals. The Cultural Revolution in China cost the lives of hundreds of thousands,
further tens of thousands having committed suicide, while Mao-Tse Tung’s “Great
Leap Forward” cost a further ten million lives as a result of starvation.

vided. Nietzsche called this phenomenon “nihilism,”64 ac-
knowledging and announcing it to be a consequence of the
“death of God.” This nihilism, this transcendental homelessness
of modern man, is the ultimate reason for the proliferation of
aggressive impulses; for the sexualization of our lives; for the
search for an escape route through drugs; for the desire to drop
out of society; for the broad spectrum of social pathologies cur-
rently to be observed; and for our society’s superficial way of
life with its emphasis on material commodities, on the pursuit
of pleasure and entertainment, and on the immediate satisfac-
tion of needs—in short, with its emphasis on narcissism65 and
hedonism.66 For many people the self constitutes “the ultimate
extent of their horizons.”67 The rapid spread of lawlessness, the
soaring crime-rate and terrorism are also included in the price a
society has to pay when it has entirely banished the metaphysi-
cal. When there is no God and no metaphysical sanction for
misdeeds; when our existence is purposeless and we ourselves

64 “Nihilism stands at the door; whence comes this uncanniest of all guests?” (The
Will to Power, Towards an Outline, 1). Wolfgang Kraus has traced the develop-
ment of the nihilism proclaimed before the turn of the century by revolutionary
thinkers throughout Europe which, with its anarchical spirit, was the inspiration of
poets, artists, philosophers and psychologists. He describes how this nihilism,
which was merely a prelude to a profound and general transformation of con-
sciousness, has imperceptibly developed into a collective neurosis that has proven
to be the real root of our spiritual crisis: “Disappointment, bitterness, this hatred of
history, the illusions of the past and the reality of the present which has nothing to
offer – these are the origins of the nihilism inundating us now. Nihilism is the
counterpole of the hope of paradise on earth. We have reached this point. The avid
desire ‘to be as God’ destroys opportunities. Failure, self-hate and loss of equilib-
rium are signs of an insidious apocalypse from within which, if no change takes
place, can result in the dramatic self-annihilation of mankind” (Nihilismus heute,
p. 138).
65  Cf. Christopher Lasch, The Culture of Narcissism. American Life in an Age of
Diminishing Expectations, New York: W.W. Norton & Co, Inc. 1979.
66 from Greek: hedoné: lust, desire; cf. The Imperishable Dominion, pp. 42ff., 61ff.,
69ff., 171ff.
67 Heiner Barz, Postmoderne Religion, vol. 2 , pp. 251, 257.


draw up the guidelines according to which we want to live our
lives; when earthly jurisdiction is also the Last Judgement,
there is little motivation to do good and avoid evil.
The Enlightenment philosophers were convinced that ethical
norms were eternal and evident through reason alone. Religion
was unnecessary for man in determining how he should live, what
he could morally do and should not do.68 However, it soon be-
came apparent that moral values are of an axiomatic nature. Once
cut off from the humus of religion on which they grew, they
gradually disintegrated in the acid bath of a one-dimensional ra-
tionalism. The critical questioning of all norms and the need for
their rational justification, the foundation of any exclusively ra-
tional system of ethics, led at a breath-taking pace and within but a
few decades to the complete relativization of all values, to a plu-
ralism of non-binding concepts of what is right, and ultimately to
the dissolution of traditional morality.69
It has become evident that “without God, morality is cut adrift,
the last moorings are gone.”70 Reason and science are incapable of
overcoming the nihilism of values, since ethical norms are only
observed if people believe in them. The incompetence of reason
and science where norms and values are concerned71 was ac-

68 In 1843 Pierre Joseph Proudhon wrote: “La loi morale... est éternelle et absolue;...
Eh! qui donc aujourd’hui oserait attaquer la morale?” (“Moral law is eternal and
absolute; ... Who then today would dare attack morals?” (De la création de l’ordre
dans l’humanité‚ ou principes d’organization politique, p. 58).
69 On this subject cf. Alasdaire MacIntyre, After Virtue. A Study in Moral Theory,
Notre Dame/Indiana 1981.
70 Pribilla, in: August Messer/Max Pribilla, Katholisches und modernes Denken, p.
95.
71 On this subject see U. Schaefer, Die Freiheit und ihre Schranken, p. 38ff.; cf. also
my paper Baha-’i- Ethics. An Introduction in the Light of the Scripture, ch. VI,4, 5
(in preparation).

knowledged towards the end of his life by no less a person than
the founder of “Critical Theory”, Max Horkheimer.72
This process of erosion has had far-reaching consequences for
society, whose stability depends on there being a generally ac-
cepted value system; on a consensus among its members with re-
gard to its goals and the permissible means of attaining them. The
less the extent to which such consensus exists, the more vulner-
able society is to disruption and instability. This process is the
main cause for the increasing ungovernability so deplored in
modern industrial societies.
New Offers of Salvation—New Age
Since the early 1970s there has been a perceptible turning away
from a purely materialistic way of thinking to the transcenden-
tal. There is renewed interest in religious values and spiritual-
ity. The one-sided rationalism of modern times has been unable
to satisfy the hunger of the starving soul. People feel the chill
of the rational coolness of our society and long for orientation
and meaning in life. They realize that the cycle of production
and consumption alone cannot provide such meaning.
A general feeling has arisen that sees in spiritual experiences
and in the expansion of consciousness the key to our deliver-
ance from the crisis. The important theme at the end of the
twentieth century is not science or politics, but religion. How-
ever, this interest in religion bypasses the traditional religion,
established Christianity, and is concentrated instead on phe-

72 “There is no logical, compelling reason why I should not hate, provided it is not to
my disadvantage in society. All attempts to base morality on worldly reason in-
stead of seeing it in relation to the hereafter... are built upon illusions. In the final
analysis, everything pertaining to morality may be logically traced back to theol-
ogy” (Die Sehnsucht nach dem ganz anderen, p. 60).


nomena from which theology dissociates itself and which it
disparages as “syncretism.”73
The hippie movement was an early form of protest against the
understanding of reality expressed in the idea of a world in which
everything could be rationally explained. Hippies believed that
drugs could release their powers of perception and give them ac-
cess to true reality—a fatal assumption! Since then a constantly
growing market for new paths offering salvation has been opened.
Today millions of people in the USA and Europe are seeking con-
tact with traditions and teachers in whom they hope to find the
right path. New offers of salvation are constantly emerging, with
bizarre and pseudo-religious cults and guru-movements, often
with very worldly aims, finding popular appeal. But confidence is
already diminishing in religious leaders and gurus who, through
their doctrines and the authoritarian structure of their movements,
have promised their followers something to hold onto and offered
clear guidance as to right and wrong. They have now concluded
that no guru can show the right way. Every individual must search
for the right way in his inner self.
More and more people are endeavouring to find their true self
along the path of “enlightenment,” seeking refuge in such widely
varying traditions as Western esotericism and Eastern mysticism.
Psychocults,74 esoteric groups and occultism are characteristic of
the innumerable representatives of this scene.
Who would have thought that in our enlightened world an ever-
growing number of people would devote themselves to astrology,

73 cf. Carl-Friedrich Geyer, Die Wiederkehr mythischen Denkens, p. 7.
74 Western society is seized by a veritable psycho-boom. Over 800 different types of
therapy are on offer in Germany alone, ranging from the classical Freudian to
various Far-Eastern sectarian types; from seminars on herbal medicine to the train-
ing of managers on the basis of group dynamics. We are here confronted with psy-
chology extending beyond the bounds of the medical profession and offering in-
stead ways of finding meaning and orientation in life, and as such constituting a
world-view or a sort of secular faith.

hypnosis, Zen-Buddhism, reincarnation therapy, magic and occult
practices, native American mythology and shamanism? Who
would have thought that there would be increasing numbers of
people consulting fortune-tellers and astrologers—among them
eminent business managers? Everything that enlightened reason
once considered to be obscurantism has resurfaced: magic,75
witchcraft,76 exorcism, animistic practices, and even bloody rituals
of animal sacrifice. This calls to mind the words of Pascal, who
stated that “Incrédules les plus crédules, ils croient les miracles de
Vespasien pour ne pas croire ceux de Moïse.”77
The non-organized, extremely diversiform movement known as
New Age has been influenced by a vagabond religiosity encom-
passing a great variety of traditions, origins and contents. Hence, it
is very difficult to find a common denominator. What we are faced
with here is escape from a purely secular image of the world. The
movement is based on the consciousness that we are living at a
turning-point in history; that the old, crisis-ridden paradigm, the
mechanistic world-view, is to be overcome and replaced by a new,
holistic view of reality, a new paradigm. This new paradigm has
initiated a new age. We are on the threshold of an evolutionary
leap, in the course of which the transformation of human con-
sciousness to “cosmic consciousness” will result in a new man
who will live in harmony with himself and with his environment.
The New Age paradigm is founded on a holistic view of the
world. Man is seen in a pantheistic, monistic way as part of the
Divine. Everything is one. Man is a fragment of cosmic con-

75 Hans Jörg Hemminger (ed.), Die Rückkehr der Zauberer. New Age. Eine Kritik,
Wiesbaden 1987.
76 Hans-Jürgen Ruppert, Die Hexen kommen. Magie und Hexenglaube heute, Wies-
baden 1987.
77 Pensées 431 (Br 114–816). In the English edition (Thoughts no. 816) it reads:
“Unbelievers the most credulous. They believe the miracles of Vespasian, in order
not to believe those of Moses” [Titus Flavius Sabinus Vespasianus, Roman em-
peror, 69–79 A. D.].


sciousness and thus every individual possesses divinity. There is
no personal God who reveals himself to mankind, and hence no
absolute truth. Christ is the path of “enlightenment,” the way to
identification with our own self. Each one of us is Christ.78 Capra
sees God as “the dynamic for the self-organization of the entire
cosmos.”79 For Rudolf Bahro, “the Deity” is identical with nature,
the origin “from which all life sprang and to which modern man,
in his state of growing disorientation, must turn once again.”80 We
read, for example, individual testimonies stating that: “I am with
God the Creator; a ‘new heaven’ appears whilst I proclaim God’s
Will on Earth... In truth I am God’s Christ ... God is everything
and everything is God ... The salvation of the earth is now before
my eyes, for all erroneous beliefs and thought-patterns have van-
ished.”81
If man bears the Divine within himself or is himself divine,82
he cannot find the standards for his conduct anywhere but in him-
self. In the spirit of “Chacun pour soi” each individual has the
freedom to choose what he thinks best: “Anything goes!”83 Every
way is equally valid. There are no generally applicable standards,
no such categories as right and wrong, or good and evil. Each per-
son is responsible only for himself. He must accept everyone else
as he or she is and can expect others to accept him as he is. In this

78 “Christ is that life, love, intelligence and energetic power which maintains all
creation in existence. It is within each of us... The Christ is revealed when we
come together... Christ is a consciousness, an attitude, an orientation towards one-
self and one’s universe, he is not a dogma, a set of laws or a teaching” (David
Spangler, Reflections on the Christ, pp. 14, 19, 30).
79 The Turning Point, p. 317.
80 Logik der Rettung, p. 260.
81 Quoted, in: Basilea Schlink, New Age. Le Mouvement du Nouvel Age à la Lumière
de la Bible, p. 6.
82 “Experienced in this way, meditation is not to beg and to pray to a god, but return
to the Divine in ourselves” (Rudolf Bahro, Logik der Rettung, p. 291).
83  A maxim formulated by the philosopher Paul K. Feyerabend (Against Method,
p. 14).

general atmosphere of postmodern metaphysical arbitrariness, re-
ligion is regarded only as a method of finding a path to the attain-
ment of one’s own divinity.
This new type of postmodern religiosity, whereby man takes
control of himself through self-realization, self-experience and
enlightenment; in which he meditates upon his origins and be-
comes aware of his divine nature. This is nothing other than the
revival of the phenomenon of Gnosis, which we know from the
late Graeco-Roman world of early Christianity. An essential fea-
ture of this nebulous “freely wandering religiosity,” which is char-
acterized by “indistinct syncretism” and by the use of the religions
of the world as “a huge quarry,”84 is its setting of the goal of sal-
vation at a purely individualistic, egotistical85 level. It is believed
that harmony among mankind will inevitably come about when
spiritual movements gain pace and large numbers of people
succeed in attaining cosmic consciousness. Political action is not
necessary for this purpose.
A New Epiphany
Auguste Comte’s prophecy that God would vanish without
leaving even the trace of a question behind Him was disproved
within his own lifetime. The middle of the last century was a
time of contrary historical developments. Whereas philosophers
in the West pronounced God dead, there was simultaneously a
hitherto unparalleled upsurge of messianic hopes, and even of
Adventist groups awaiting the return of Christ.
During this time in the Islamic world (in Iran), there emerged a
new faith: the Baha-’i- Faith. It bore all the characteristics of a pro-
phetic religion. It displayed the archetypal features we know from

84 Heinz Zahrnt, Gotteswende, p. 42.
85  heilsegoistisch


religious history, in particular from Christianity: a forerunner, who
called himself the Ba-b86 and who prepared the way for the founder
of the new faith, Baha-’u’lla-h. Whereas the Ba-b was executed in
1850, Baha-’u’lla-h remained throughout his 40-year ministry a
prisoner and an exile.
The Baha-’i- Faith to which the theologian Gerhard Rosenkranz
has referred to as one of the “most fascinating phenomena of
modern religious history,”87  is the most recent of the revealed re-
ligions and is classified as a world religion by many scholars of
comparative religious studies.88 During its 150-year history it has
spread to almost all the countries of the world and in geographical
terms is the second most widespread religion after Christianity.89
In recent years it has drawn public attention through headlines
about the bloody persecutions suffered by the Baha-’i-s under the
clerical regime in Iran.
The phenomenon of a new prophetic religion is closely linked
to the theme we are dealing with, since long before the protago-
nists of the New Age movement diagnosed the dawning of a new

86 the Gate.
87 Die Baha’i, p. 7.
88 cf. Theologische Realenzyklopädie, vol. V, pp. 115-132, under the heading “Baha-’i-s-
mus”; Peter Meinhold, Die Religionen der Gegenwart, p. 317ff.; Smith, P./
M. Momen, “The Baha-’i- Faith 1957-1988: A Survey of Contemporary Develop-
ments,” in: Religion, 19 (1989), pp. 63-91; Paul D. Numrich, “The Baha-’i- Faith in
World Religions Textbooks,” in: World Order 25.1, p. 51ff.; Fazel, Seena, “Is the
Baha-’i- Faith a World Religion?,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies (March-June
1994), pp. 1-14; Udo Schaefer, The Baha-’i- Faith – Sect or Religion?, pp. 16ff.
A scholar of Near-Eastern studies, Professor Christian Cannuyer, of the University
of Louvain/Belgium characterized the Baha-’i- Faith as follows: “Sécrété par
l’Islam shi-‘ite, considéré par les a-yatu-lla-hs de l’Iran actuel comme une hérésie
nuisible, relégué par d’autres au rang de secte, le baha-’isme est en réalité
aujourd’hui une religion de dimension universelle qui n’appartient plus à la
mouvance musulmane. C’est un ‘monothéisme abrahamique’ à part entière: par
ses doctrines originales, il mérite l’intérêt. Par son message d’amour, sa tolérance
et son action humanitaire, il suscite la sympathie. Par ses nombreux martyrs, en
Iran et ailleurs, il a droit au respect” (Les Baha-’i-s, p. 7).
89 Encyclopaedia Britannica, Britannica Book of the Year 1988, p. 303.

era, the Baha-’i-s were already announcing that a new age had been
inaugurated. The Baha-’i-s live in the conviction that the living
God, who through his messengers and prophets spoke in the past
to the peoples of the earth, communicating to them His Will and
His Laws, has at this decisive point in world history once again
spoken to mankind. In Baha-’u’lla-h, they see a central event of
absolute significance, the absolute eschatological turning-point:
through him God has revealed Himself to humanity.
At all times such a prophetic claim has appeared strange, ri-
diculously arrogant, sheerly presumptuous. To modern man it is
even more of a skandalon than the claim associated with the figure
of Christ was to the people of Antiquity. According to St. Paul, the
Christian faith was “unto the Jews a stumbling-block, and unto the
Greeks foolishness.”90 Baha-’u’lla-h’s message, too, is a stumbling-
block to those who still believe and regard his claim as human
usurpation. It seems to be foolishness to those for whom God is
dead or who imagine that they can achieve salvation by looking
into their own soul, just as Münchhausen saved himself from the
swamp by pulling himself out by his own hair.91 The new Book of
God is a provocation.92 Baha-’u’lla-h foresaw this when he spoke
about “the fears and agitation which the revelation provokes in
men’s hearts.”93
In the context of Islamic eschatology, the advent of the Ba-b and
of Baha-’u’lla-h was the fulfilment of the expectation of a global

90 I Cor. 1:23.
91 Cf. “Baron Münchhausen’s Narrative of his Marvellous Travels and Campaigns in
Russia” (Oxford 1785). In one of these stories, Münchhausen tells how he once
fell into a swamp when he was out riding. He describes how he managed to save
himself at the last minute by seizing his own hair and pulling himself out.
92 The provocation of the Kita-b-i-Aqdas, which recently has been published in Eng-
lish (Baha-’u’lla-h, The Kita-b-i-Aqdas. The Most Holy Book, Haifa 1992), is dis-
cussed in U. Schaefer: “‘The Balance hath been Appointed’: Some Thoughts on
the Publication of the Kita-b-i-Aqdas,” in:  The Baha-’i- Studies Review 3.1, p.
43ff.).
93 Gleanings 88.


upheaval at the end of time, a point which had now been
reached.94 However, the Baha-’i-s see in the coming of Baha-’u’lla-h
the fulfilment not only of Islamic eschatological expectations. The
Catholic theologian Thomas Sartory95 has pointed out that accord-
ing to the eschatological expectations of all religions there would
appear in the Last Days a Promised One who would, after a period
of chaos and horror, renew the world and bring about a new era of
peace and justice. Baha-’u’lla-h himself has claimed to be the ful-
filment of all these prophetic promises. In his Tablet to Pope Pius
IX he expressly referred to Christ’s promise of his return: “The
Word which the Son concealed96 is made manifest,97 ... the Spirit
of Truth98 has come to lead you into all truth99 ... Verily, the day
of the ingathering100 is come ... He hath stored away that which
He chose in the vessels of justice, and cast into fire that which
befitteth it.”101
The Baha-’i-s believe that world history is cyclical; it is divided
into universal cycles and aeons. The Adamic cycle, the universal
cycle which began 6000 years ago and during which the great
founders of the world’s religions appeared, has been terminated
with the new revelation.102 With Baha-’u’lla-h a new universal cy-
cle has begun. His epiphany marks the opening of the new era.
This finds expression in the calendar used by the Baha-’i-s that be-
gins in the year 1844.

94 cf. Qur’a-n 4:89; 6:31; 7:187; 18:21; 20:102; 22:7; 39:68; 78:1-2 etc.
95 “Zeitenwende? Die Hoffnung der Religionen auf einen kommenden Retter,” in: Ingrid
Riedel (ed.), Der unverbrauchte Gott, pp. 183, 195.
96 cf. John 16:12.
97 The Proclamation of Baha-’u’lla-h, p. 84.
98 cf. John 16:13.
99 Tablets 2:12; Gleanings 116:1.
100 cf. Matt. 13:30, 39.
101 The Proclamation of Baha-’u’lla-h, p. 86.
102 cf. Ba-b, Selections 6:11:5.

Baha-’i-s believe that the decisive turning-point which
nineteenth century thinkers such as Kierkegaard, Marx and
Nietzsche expected, and which Adventists and Millenarians
longed for and considered imminent, has taken place in this age:
“The stillest words are those which bring the storm. Thoughts that
come on doves’ feet lead the world.”103 This event has come upon
mankind as Christ had foretold: like a thief in the night, at a time
that no-one expected.104
The New Paradigm
In addition to the cyclical interpretation of history in the Baha-’i-
teachings, there is a corresponding belief in the progressive,
cyclical outpouring of divine revelation in accordance with the
requirements of the particular time. The epiphanies of the great
religions mark the turning-points in human history. Whereas
Christian teachings portray the history of salvation as being ex-
clusively the biblical history of God’s words and actions be-
tween the fall of Adam and the redemption of Christ, the Baha-
’i- Faith teaches that the whole of religious history is the history
of salvation, encompassing all revealed religions. Thus, the
concept of revelation is universal in dimension:
These firmly-established and mighty systems have proceeded
from one Source, and are rays of one Light.105
The doctrine of the mystical unity of all religions and of all
prophets is a central element of Baha-’i- theology as is the rejec-
tion of all claims to uniqueness and to the finality of salva-

103 Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra (“The Stillest Hour”) Part III, p. 162.
104 Matt. 24:43; I Thess. 5:2; Rev. 3:3; 16:15.
105 Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 18 (p. 13).


tion.106 The history of salvation is a continuous, open-ended
process.
In a profusion of apocalyptic verses Baha-’u’lla-h has described
what will precede the regeneration of the world: mankind’s aban-
donment of religion,107 an increase in lawlessness, the spread of
injustice and tyranny, the break-down of order and numerous
tribulations inundating humanity from every side.
Above all, however, Baha-’u’lla-h is the messenger of glad tid-
ings. He has renewed God’s eternal promise of salvation through a
new covenant. In countless texts he has shown us the way out of
the crisis, providing hope and abolishing the idea that the human
species is doomed.108 It is only through a fundamental change of
values and by turning to God, through repentance,109 that the new
man will emerge and be capable of survival. The world’s major
problems, the solution of which is essential if mankind is to sur-

106 Shoghi Effendi calls such claims “pure blasphemy” (The World  Order of Baha-’-
u’lla-h, p. 58). On these claims cf. Seena Fazel/Khazeh Fananapazir, “A Baha-’i-
Approach to the Claim to Exclusivity and Uniqueness in Christianity,” in: The
Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 3.2, p. 15ff.; ibid., “A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of
Finality in Islam,” op. cit. 5.3, p. 17ff.
107 cf. Gleanings 99; Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 117.
108 “How long will humanity persist in its waywardness? How long will injustice con-
tinue? How long is chaos and confusion to reign amongst men? How long will dis-
cord agitate the face of society? The winds of despair are, alas, blowing from
every direction, and the strife that divideth and afflicteth the human race is daily
increasing... Soon shall the blasts of His chastisement beat upon you, and the dust
of hell enshroud you (Tablets 11:26; Gleanings 103:5) ... O ye peoples of the
world! Know verily that an unforeseen calamity is following you and that grievous
retribution awaiteth you. Think not the deeds ye have committed have been blotted
from My sight” (The Hidden Words, Persian 63). In this connection Baha-’u’lla-h
speaks of a global convulsion, which will precede the rise of the Cause of God:
“And when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly appear that which
will cause the limbs of mankind to quake. Then, and only then, will the Divine
Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody (Glean-
ings 61) ... Oppression will envelope the world. And following a universal convul-
sion, the sun of justice will rise from the horizon of the unseen realm” (quoted
from Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 121).
109 metanoia: cf. Matt. 3:2; Mark 1:15: “Repent ye” (metanoeite).

vive, are solved in the Scripture of Baha-’u’lla-h: the securing of
world peace; the abolition of war; the overcoming of the ecologi-
cal crisis and of the spiritual crisis epitomized by nihilism.
The securing of world peace110 and the solution to the ecologi-
cal crisis111 are both problems too complex to be considered in de-
tail here. According to Baha-’u’lla-h the spiritual crisis; the loss of
meaning and values resulting in the dissolution of morality; the
disintegration and the decomposition of society have their ultimate
cause in the disintegration of man’s faith in God. Baha-’u’lla-h
makes abundantly clear that this decline of religion cannot be re-
deemed by human efforts at reforming and re-animating the old
religions. True reformation and renewal can come only from God
in the form of a new revelation.112

110 According to Baha-’u’lla-h, the conditions for universal lasting peace (such as de-
manded by Immanuel Kant in his essay Perpetual Peace, published in 1795) are:
the overcoming of all religious, racial, and political prejudices and barriers; a new
ethical code based on faith; the all-embracing love of mankind; the consciousness
of membership of the human race, and a new level of political existence through
the replacement of the current order based on the nation-state by a federal world
community, i. e., the spiritual and political unity of mankind. The driving force for
this spiritual and political transformation is the new, creative, transforming Word
of God, the lógos, which has already in the past brought about gigantic changes.
Cf. Ulrich Gollmer, “Der lange Weg zum Größten Frieden,” in: Baha-’i--Briefe vol.
50 (October 1985), p. 128ff.; vol. 52 (December 1986), p. 204ff.; also U. Gollmer,
Gottesreich und Weltgestaltung. Grundlegung einer politischen Theologie im Baha-’i--
tum (thesis, still unpublished).
111 Baha-’u’lla-h predicted this crisis just as clearly as he foresaw the development of
nuclear power and the problems associated with the splitting of the atom. At a time
when the first industrial revolution was just at its outset and the whole process
could have been kept under control, he warned of the danger of uncontrolled civi-
lization which might lead to the destruction of the environment: “The civilization
.... will, if allowed to overleap the bounds of moderation, bring great evil upon
men” (Gleanings 163:2). The solution he proposes is not the return to pre-
industrial conditions but moderation, the virtue of the right measure upon which
the promotion of true civilization depends. For further discussion of this topic, cf.
Robert A. White, “Spiritual Foundations for an Ecologically Sustainable Society,”
in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 2.1, p. 33ff. On the cardinal virtue of moderation
see my forthcoming paper Baha-’i- Ethics, Part III.
112 “What else but the Elixir of His potent Revelation can cleanse and revive it?”


From the above brief outline it is evident that the Baha-’i- Faith
has a number of aspects in common with the ideas, attitudes and
interpretations of the New Age movement:
• We are living at a turning-point in history, on the threshold of
a new era
• The old social order is disintegrating
• Overcoming outdated modes of thinking and defunct forms is a
painful process
• Mankind needs to develop a new consciousness
• An evolutionary leap will call into existence a “new man” and
a new world of harmony
• A fundamental change in our way of thinking is required, re-
placing the one-sided cognitive, antagonistic approach by an
integral, holistic one
• Such a new way of thinking is already perceptible
• Rationality must be complemented by spirituality, i. e., science
by religion.
All these are positions that can be granted wholehearted assent
from the point of view of the Baha-’i- teachings. From the Baha-’i-
perspective, the fact that these ideas are put forward by such
widely varying groups is a reflection of the spirit of the age
(Zeitgeist) resulting from the revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h itself. It
is the effect of the creative, animating Word of God which has
entered the world through the epiphany of Baha-’u’lla-h. The
world is moving in the direction he has indicated without being
aware of this eschatological event. Of course, this is evident
only to the eyes of those who believe. Using empirical reason
alone, however, the historian can observe the depth of Baha-’-
u’lla-h’s insight into the world; he can confirm the extent to
which Baha-’u’lla-h’s analyses have proven to be correct and

(Gleanings 99).

how many of the requirements he set forth are beginning to be
met or are in the process of accomplishment.
Furthermore, the Baha-’i-s see a paradigm shift occurring espe-
cially in the field of religion. In contrast to the old ecclesiastical
paradigm, formulated in the Apostolic Creed, of the unique drama
of salvation through God’s incarnate son; who lived among men;
suffered on Calgary; rose to Heaven; redeemed the world of its
sins and reconciled God with humanity—the new paradigm de-
picts a divine economy of salvation. It postulates that there is a
continuous process of the education of the human race by the
prophets and messengers of God; a God who gradually manifests
himself at historical intervals and who has redeemed his messianic
promises in Baha-’u’lla-h.
Cardinal Differences
The most striking contrast with the “new religiosity” is that for
the Baha-’i-s, to quote Pascal, God is the “God of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob” and “not the God of the philosophers.”113 He
is the Creator, the Lord of History, who speaks to mankind
through the mouth of his prophets. God is not merely a cipher
for our “humaneness” as atheist theologians teach,114 or, as
Capra sees it, “the dynamic for the self-organization of the en-
tire cosmos.”
The second profound difference is in the image of man. Ac-
cording to Baha-’u’lla-h, man has been created by God. He is not an
accidental by-product of a “general cosmic consciousness.” Nei-

113 Blaise Pascal, Mémorial, fr. 555; cf. Ex. 3:6; Matt. 22:32; Acts 3:13; Qur’a-n
12:38; Tablets 17:122.
114 “Man as man, man with his brotherly love, implies God,” formulates the Protestant
theologian Herbert Braun (Gesammelte Studien zum Neuen Testament und seiner
Umwelt, p. 325), referring to I John 4:7 (“for love is God”). See also Dorothee Söl-
le, Atheistisch an Gott glauben, Olten 1968.


ther is man a part of the Divine; nor a fragment of the whole. As
in all monotheistic religions, the rank of creature—the ontological
station of man as a created being—cannot be transcended. This
amounts to the rejection of the monistic, pantheistic image of man
portrayed by the groups under discussion.
A further fundamental contrast with the new religiosity pertains
to its subjectivistic concept of truth, the “subjectivism of truth.”115
If there is no common, indivisible, generally applicable truth, if
everyone is obliged to seek his own truth valid only for himself,
then truth is merely a husk with changing contents. If, on the other
hand, religion is to be believed in and experienced as truth, then
the claim to truth must be universal, i. e., it must be applicable to
all. In the words of St. Augustine, truth is “not mine, nor thine, but
common to all.”116 Likewise, ‘Abdu’l-Baha- says “If it be true, it is
for all; if not, it is for no one.”117 This universalism of truth is
characteristic of all the great world religions, especially of the
Judaeo-Christian-Islamic tradition to which the Baha-’i- Faith be-
longs. The Baha-’i- Faith is founded not on a general, non-
committal yearning of the human heart: it is founded on the Word
of God revealed to the whole of mankind by Baha-’u’lla-h.118
Finally, the redemption of man is seen quite differently. It is
not seen as “man’s own creation” through “cosmic consciousness”

115 Heiner Barz, Postmoderne Religion, p. 134ff.
116 “Quia communis est omnibus veritas. Non est nec mea, nec tua; non est illius, aut
illius; omnibus communis est” (Enarrationes in Psalmos LXXV 17 [20]). “Non
habeo quasi privatum meum, nec tu privatum tuum. Veritas nec mea sit propria,
nec tua, ut et tua sit et mea” (ibid. CIII, 11 [25]).
117 Quoted in Esslemont, Baha-’u’lla-h and the New Era, p. 236.
118 Oskar Schatz has rightly pointed out that the situation of conflict in the “post-
modern” era has altered: “It is no longer a case of institutionalized religion versus
science, but one of religion and science on the one hand versus the ‘new mytholo-
gies’ on the other” (O. Schatz/Hans Spatzenegger [ed.], Wovon werden wir morgen
geistig leben? Mythos, Religion und Wissenschaft in der “Postmoderne,” Vorwort
p. 11; cf. also Franz König, “Die Beziehungen zwischen Wissenschaft und Religi-
on aus der Sicht unserer Zeit,” pp. 25, 31).

but as an act of salvation by God, with man responding by turning
in faith to God’s revelation and submitting his entire life to the
Will of God. It is the new covenant between God and man prom-
ised by the prophets.119 The rainbow, which the New Age move-
ment has adopted as the symbol of man’s self-creation and self-
redemption through cosmic consciousness, is the sign of God’s
covenant120 in the Bible. At the heart of God’s Covenant is the
Law, the divine commandments upon which man should shape his
life. The Baha-’i- Faith is characterized by the belief that without
effort; without shaping one’s entire life in accordance with divine
standards, one cannot achieve salvation, neither in this world nor
in the hereafter. Without a clearly marked path, the destination
cannot be reached. Without binding standards, it is impossible to
imagine how the immense problems facing modern society: the
pluralism and non-committal nature of ethical values, and the lack
of a generally accepted and binding moral code are to be over-
come. Since man for obvious reasons does not grant his fellow
men any authority in the field of morality, the moral code can only
be a theonomous121: God is the Law-Giver.
The Future
“The path to the future still lies open before us. Never before
has there been such an age. It is an age of breakdown or of
breakthrough; but to break through unto a future of promise,
possibilities and peace the human family must strive to trans-
form itself.”122 This transformation will require effort, disci-
pline, the acquisition of new habits of thought, attitudes and
skills. The Baha-’i- Faith which provides the way to this trans-

119 cf. Is. 55:3; 61:8; 65:17; Micah 4:1-4.
120 cf. Gen. 9:13.
121  From Greek: théos = God and nomos = law.
122  Suheil Bushrui, Retrieving Our Spiritual Heritage, pp. 12/13.


formation, shares with the New Age movement an optimistic
vision of the future of mankind: the hope, nay rather the certi-
tude, that beyond the horrors and the suffering currently assail-
ing humanity a bright future awaits us. The apocalyptic disas-
ters of our time are the birth-pangs of a new era in which the
promised messianic kingdom—the “Kingdom of God on
Earth”—will be established and as Baha-’u’lla-h has promised,
the earth will become “the footstool of God.”123 Non est ad as-
tra mollis e terris via: There is no easy way from the earth to
the stars.124

123 Gleanings 14:6; cf. Matth. 5:35.
124 Seneca, Tragedies, Hercules furens, verse 437.

On the Diversity
and
Unity of Religions

Have we not all one father? Hath not one
God created us? Why do we deal treacher-
ously every man against his brother, by pro-
faning the covenant of our fathers?
Malachi 2:10

I.
Prefatory Note on the Concept of Paradigm1
The terms “paradigm” and “paradigm-shift” play a central role
in Thomas S. Kuhn’s book The Structure of Scientific Revolu-
tions. According to Kuhn, an American physicist and science
theoretician, scientific knowledge is always based on a model
of interpretation (a paradigm) which is generally accepted by
the scientific community at a particular time. Examples of such
a paradigm—a word standing for “the entire constellation of
beliefs, values, techniques, and so on shared by a member of a
given community”2—would be the Ptolomaic, ecclesiastical
image of the world, which was dominant in the Middle Ages
prior to the discoveries of Galileo; and the post-Galilean helio-
centric world-view, by which it was superseded.
The concept of paradigm has meanwhile found acceptance in
other disciplines, including theology.3 In this branch of study
paradigm is used to denote the basic image one has of religion and
of theology. It denotes the pattern according to which the diversity
of religious phenomena is understood and interpreted.
In selecting the term “unity paradigm” the author intends to
convey the new understanding of religion: the new image of reli-
gious phenomena and of religious history; and its inherent concept
of divine salvation (Heilsgeschichte). This concept of unity is cen-
tral to the teachings of Baha-’u’lla-h.

From Greek paradeigma : a model, pattern.
Ibid., p. 175.
cf. Hans Küng, Global Responsibility: In Search of a New World Ethic, pp. 2,
120ff., 125ff.; H. Küng/Josef van Ess, Christianity and the Religions of the World,
pp. 51, 347; H. Küng, Paradigm Change in Theology, Edinburgh: T. & T. Clark,
1989.


II.
The New Paradigm: Unity
When considering the great world religions it is striking how
each one seems to be centred around one main idea to which all
others are subordinated. As ‘Abdu’l-Baha- pointed out: “In
every Dispensation the light of Divine Guidance has been fo-
cused upon one central theme.”4 Indeed, distinguishing epithets
have been attached to the religions on this basis, Christianity
being referred to as the “religion of love;” Judaism as the “re-
ligion of justice;” Islam as the “religion of absolute submis-
sion;” Buddhism as the “religion of detachment;” Zoroastrian-
ism as the “religion of purity.” If one were to ascribe such an
epithet to the Baha-’i- Faith it would undoubtedly be the “relig-
ion of unity,” for unity is its central theme and the starting
point of all theological consideration of its teachings.
This theme is found on three levels: in the unity of God, in the
unity of the prophets or “Manifestations,”5 and in the unity of
mankind. The last-mentioned has been referred to by Shoghi Ef-
fendi as “the pivot round which the teachings of Baha-’u’lla-h re-
volve.”6 Likewise, ‘Abdu’l-Baha- said that
In this wondrous Revelation, this glorious century, the founda-
tion of the Faith of God and the distinguishing feature of His
Law is the consciousness of the Oneness of Mankind.7
This is the focus of the immanent, programmatic dimension of
the Baha-’i- Faith. Indeed, Baha-’u’lla-h himself says that he has

Quoted in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha-’u’lla-h, p. 36 (see also
‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 77:2).
On the concept of the “Manifestation” see ch. XI, 3 (p. 126).
World Order, p. 42.
Ibid., p. 36 (see also ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 77:2).

come “to vivify the world and to bring into unity all who are on
the face of the earth”8
The theological pivot, however, is the teaching of the unity
of the Manifestations and, hence, the unity of the religions.
This doctrine, which is the quintessence of one of the earliest
and most significant works of Baha-’u’lla-h, the Kita-b-i-I-qa-n,9
opens up a completely new perspective on the diverse pano-
rama of beliefs. It is with this new perspective that the current
essay is concerned. In the final chapter a closer look will be
taken at the new concept of salvation history (Heilsgeschichte),
which can lead us to a greater appreciation of this religious di-
versity, to a deeper understanding of the phenomenon of relig-
ion per se, and to the new paradigm characterized by the con-
cept of unity.
III.
The Diversity of Religions
The saying that wonder is the beginning of philosophy is also
true of religious studies. In this case, it is wonder at the im-
mense diversity of religious beliefs. The history of religion re-
sembles a broad and mighty river with many tributaries. As far
as our knowledge of history goes, there has always been relig-
ion. At certain times there unpredictably appeared out of its
stream the figure of a prophet who, with a new creative im-
pulse, hastened its hitherto sluggish flow and set it in a new di-
rection. Such an appearance was always accompanied by an
epochal hiatus, the splitting of ways and the making of a deci-
sion. This meant the rejection of stale and rigid traditions and a
turn towards a new future. Accordingly, each of the great world

Lawh.-i-Ra’i-s, quoted in J. E. Esslemont, Baha-’u’lla-h and the New Era, p. 147.
The Book of Certitude, Wilmette/Ill., 1950.


religions adopted a new calendar to mark the new era which
had begun.
The fact that religion appears in such colourful variety—that
there is not one single religion but a plurality—has always been a
source of irritation for people. Religions are in many ways similar,
and yet they are so different; there is much which unites them, but
also much which divides them. This is indeed irritating. All the
world religions teach that there is only one ultimate reality, which
we call God. If that is so, there can logically only be one truth: But
if there is only one truth, why are there so many religions?
Believers have always been annoyed by the existence of other
religions apart from their own, the only true one. Most religious
thinkers have been content either to ignore other religions or to ar-
gue against them, while sceptical non-believers, the critics of re-
ligion, have always seen the plurality of religions as an argument
in their favour. The competition between various doctrines, com-
mandments, rites and rituals, between rival claims to truth and ex-
clusivity appear to testify against religion. Surely only one can
really be right, but how can this one be found?
IV.

The Absoluteness and the Relativity
of Religious Claims to Truth
That religion is always associated with a claim to truth is self-
evident. Something that is untrue is by its nature unworthy of
faith. All of the world religions, in particular those of the Near
Eastern tradition, i. e., the prophetic religions of Zoroastrian-
ism, Judaism, Christianity and Islam, to which the Baha-’i- Faith
belongs, make absolute claims to truth. Each is convinced that
it possesses a divine message brought by its founder which to

them is “the way, the truth and the life,”10 the “Straight Path,”11
the “Right Path.”12 Naturally, this is the yardstick by which all
other religions are judged.
All human thought, all striving for truth, all philosophy must be
prefaced with the motto “errare humanum est”. In Goethe’s Faust
we read: “When mortals strive they go astray.”13 By contrast,
truth that emanates from God is absolute. We can accept or reject
it, but once accepted it is no longer a matter of choice. It is au-
thoritative, categorical, above criticism and not in need of rational
justification. It may not be watered down or unhinged by relativ-
ism. This is logical and consistent. It is this very factor that makes
out the distinction between revealed religion and philosophy,
which belongs in a different category altogether. In philosophy,
provided the laws of logic are respected, one can be selective and
eclectic. The same  cannot be done with  divine  revelation. In the
Kita-b-i-I-qa-n, Baha-’u’lla-h disparages those who accept from the
revelation only the elements which correspond to their “inclin-
ations and interests” and “reject those which are contrary to their
selfish desires.”14 The Qur’a-n, too, says: “Believe ye then part of
the Book, and deny part?”15
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that religious truth is “not absolute,
but relative”16 does not contradict this: It was made not in refer-
ence to the claim to validity of revealed truth but rather in refer-

10 John 14:6.
11 As.-s.ira-t.u’l-mustaqi-m; Qur’a-n 1:6; 4:70; 5:15; 37:118; Tablets of Baha-’u’lla-h 4:8;
5:17; 6:11; 8:3 etc.
12 “Magga” (Anguttara-Nikaya III, 72), which has also been translated by the
“Straight Path” (Itivuttaka, Sutta 62), and which is identical with the Noble Eight-
fold Path: right views, right aspirations, right speech, right action, right mode of
livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, right rapture (Digha Nikaya VIII, Kas-
sapa-Si-hana-da Sutta [165] 13; cf. H. Saddhatissa, Buddhist Ethics, p. 69ff.).
13 Prologue in Heaven, The Lord [“Es irrt der Mensch, solang’ er strebt.”]
14 para 181 (p. 169).
15 2:79.
16 World Order, p. 58.


ence to the historical religions whose teachings are “facets of one
truth”17 and to the historical conditions of revelation—to the fact
that each dispensation is brought to mankind in accordance with
the stage of development, the level of understanding and the ca-
pacity of the human race. What is also relative and not absolute is
our comprehension of the truth confronting us with its absolute
claim to validity, since “man can have no access to absolute truth
in the field of religion as in other fields.”18
We have to acknowledge the inescapable relativity of all hu-
man consciousness: “All human responses to the Absolute,
whether conceived of as the Brahman or as God who reveals him-
self, must be recognized as relative. Divine truth is always re-
ceived in earthen vessels. How can it be otherwise? No one who is
part of a particular community of faith shaped by certain linguis-
tic, social and historical factors, can escape this cultural relativity.
The Word must be heard, the vision of God must be seen, the
truth perceived must become truth in the life of the believers. Peo-
ple of different cultures at different times respond differently to
the mystery of truth.”19

17  Shoghi Effendi, Guidance for Today and Tomorrow, p. 2.
18 Moojan Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Baha-’i- Metaphysics,” p. 210. Momen’s
essay is a noteworthy contribution with far-reaching implications.
19  Stanley J. Samastha, “Ganga and Galilee: Two Responses to Truth,” p. 103.

V.
Uniqueness, Finality and Exclusivity of Revelation20
Claims to absolute truth are nowadays regarded with suspicion.
They have been much abused and have caused much harm.21 In
religious history it has been not only for the revealed Scrip-
tures, the Word of God, that claims to absolute truth have been
made; but also for certain individuals’ understanding of this
Word, for often rigidly dogmatic theological interpretations.
This fixation of dogmatic definitions has led to claims of final-
ity and exclusivity and to that “confrontation in which each
group was concerned to establish the unique superiority of its
own tradition.”22 The religion most strongly affected in this re-
spect has been Christianity23 whose followers for centuries saw

20 For an interesting contribution on this subject see also Seena Fazel’s and Khazeh
Fananapazir’s essays “A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of Exclusivity and Unique-
ness in Christianity,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 3.2, p. 15ff.; Idem,
“A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of Finality in Islam,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i-
Studies 5.3, p. 17ff.
21 This has especially been the case when human perception of truth has been de-
clared absolute and turned into an ideology or ersatz religion, as, for instance, in
Nazism and Bolshevism.
22  John Hick, “Religious Diversity as Challenge and Promise,” in: J. Hick/H. Askari,
The Experience of Religious Diversity, p. 4.
23 Hans Küng refers to a “rage for defining” already prevailing in early Christianity,
a desire to “dogmatize,” i. e., to decree in law, as much as possible in the Christian
faith, a tendency which has not been evident in Judaism or Islam. Küng sees this
as a Graeco-Roman speciality. The Greek element is the “intellectualization of be-
lief through dogmatizing, high-flown speculation, and sterile, abstract mysticism.”
The Roman element is the “traditionalism, legalism and triumphalism continually
revealed in definitions” (Christianity and the World Religions, p. 115). This fateful
urge to define has become the cause of continual dogmatic arguments and count-
less divisions in the Church.
The Christological polemic alone resulted in numerous schisms (LThK 7:1288).
The Great Schism of 1054 which brought about the secession of the Eastern
Church was also primarily the result of dogmatic hair-splitting concerning the doc-
trine of the Trinity, namely the question as to whether the Holy Ghost emanates
from God alone or, as the Western Church asserted, also from the Son, i. e., whe-
ther the Western Church had been justified in inserting the word filioque into the


in other religions nothing but sources of error, sin and evil. The
religions least affected have been Hinduism and Buddhism, in
which other religions are acknowledged as being paths to the
ultimate truth.
According to the Church, God has revealed himself “once and
for all.”24 Once and for all salvation has come: The claim to final-
ity leads to the claim to exclusivity. The claim to finality relates to
the future; the act of salvation has been completed, revelation is at
an end. The claim to exclusivity is the demarcation-line against ri-
val offers of salvation; there is no other source of (full) salvation.
1. Jewish doctrine asserts that after Moses, the only human be-
ing “whom the Lord knew face to face”25 and with whom he
spoke “mouth to mouth,”26 there will be no other prophet. His
Law is perfect and is neither capable nor in need of improvement.
Hence, it is valid for as long as the world will exist. On the basis
of this teaching, Moses Maimonides27 includes as the ninth doc-
trine in the thirteen articles of the Jewish faith set down in his
Mischne Torah28: “I firmly believe that this Law will not be
changed, and that there will not be any other Law given by the
Creator, praised be His Name.”29 In support of his position, Mai-
monides cites the Torah, whose precepts by its own testimony are
“an eternal statute for all your generations.”30 He refers to the To-
rah’s explicit commandment “Thou shalt not add thereto, nor di-
minish from it,”31 and to the verse “It is not in Heaven.”32 The lat-

Symbolum Nicaeense (a patre filioque procedens); cf. LThK 4:126ff.; 5:108ff. In
Islam (as in Judaism), by contrast, the need for definitions is restricted to the legal
sphere; one is interested in orthopraxy rather than orthodoxy.
24 cf. for example, Gerhard Rosenkranz, Die Baha-’i-, p. 59.
25 Deut. 34:10.
26 Numbers 12:8.
27 1135-1204.
28 “Repetition of the Law,” 1180, published in Hebrew.
29 Quoted in M. Friedlander, The Jewish Religion, p. 139.
30 cf. Ex. 28:43; Lev. 6:22; 7:34; 10:9, 15; 16:31; 17:7.
31 Deut. 12:32.

ter means that “the Torah had already been given at Mount Si-
nai,”33 i. e., that nothing of the Torah was left in Heaven for later
revelations: At Mount Sinai, God renounced once and for all his
power of legislation.
It is therefore not surprising that the Messiah is not expected to
bring a new Law but to be subject to the Law of Moses. His mis-
sion will be to lead all mankind to Sinai. This fixation has led to
the verdict that was passed on religions not mentioned in the To-
rah, in particular on Christianity and on Islam, whose respective
claims to truth have been disparaged as mere human usurpation.34
Yet the Jewish faith has never gone so far as to claim exclusivity
with regard to salvation. All those who abide by the seven Noa-
chic Laws35 will be granted salvation. It is stated in the Talmud:
“The righteous of all of the nations of the world, everyone of
them, have a share in the world to come.”36 Even the messianic
nature of Christianity and of Islam has been acknowledged. The
two most eminent thinkers of mediaeval Judaism, Yehuda Halevi
and Maimonides, stress that these religions’ “vocation is to help in
making the road for the coming of the Kingdom of God” and have

32 Deut. 30:12.
33 The Babylonian Talmud, Baba Mezia 59a/59b.
34 “The mission of the Prophets after Moses is to exhort the people to obey the Law
of Moses, and not to make a new religion” (Maimonides, quoted in
M. Friedlander, The Jewish Religion, p. 218). Rabbi Abraham ben David rejected
Jesus’ and Muh.ammad’s claims to be the bearers of a divine mission, asserting
that: “The divinity of the old covenant, or the Torah, has been admitted by both Je-
sus and Mohammed; we need not prove it. But the Divine authority asserted by
them for its abrogation or change is not admitted by us; it must be proved; and
since no proof has been given, it must be rejected” (Fifth Principle, ch. II, quoted
in M. Friedlander, ibid., p. 220).
35 These consist of six prohibitions and one command. The prohibitions are con-
cerned with blasphemy and idolatry, incest, murder, theft and the mutilation of
animals (Gen. 9:1ff.). On the whole subject see Hermann Cohen, Religion of Rea-
son out of the Sources of Judaism, p. 123.
36 Sanhedrin 13:21; see also Leo Trepp, “Judaism and the Religions of the World,”
p. 46ff.; H. Cohen, op. cit., pp. 122ff., 328ff.


succeeded in “spreading the word of the Holy Scripture to the
ends of the earth.”37
2. Referring to certain verses in the New Testament that were
interpreted as dogmas of exclusivity and finality,38 the Church al-
ready in its earliest days passed a judgement of condemnation on
all who did not belong to it. “Extra ecclesiam nulla salus” was the
motto from the time of St. Cyprian onwards. This meant also that
there was to be no revelation after Christ: “Extra ecclesiam nullus
propheta”! The seal was set on revelation for all times since the
fullness of salvation had come with Christ. Of all religions, it is
the Christian Church that has been most intransigent in its dog-
matic proclamation of finality and exclusivity. The origin of this is
certainly the Doctrine of the Trinity formulated at the Council of
Nicea. This dogma took Christ out of the chain of prophets and
divine messengers and elevated him instead to the rank of God (in
his second person). This event—the incarnation of God on earth—
thus appeared unique, unrepeatable and unsurpassable.
Thus, for many centuries it was the Christian position that all
men must become Christians if they are to be saved. In 1302 Pope
Boniface VIII in his Bull Unam sanctam pronounced: “We are re-
quired by faith to believe and hold that there is one holy, catholic
and apostolic Church; we firmly believe it and unreservedly pro-
fess it; outside it there is neither salvation nor remission of
sins39.... the Roman Pontiff is, for every human creature, an utter
necessity of salvation.”40

37 Leo Baeck, The Essence of Judaism, p. 246.
38 cf. John 1:1, 14; 3:16; 10:30; 12:45; 14:6; Acts 4:12; 1. Tim. 2:5; cf. also S. Fazel
and K. Fananapazir, “A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of Exclusivity and Unique-
ness in Christianity,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 3.2, p. 18ff.
39  Denzinger, Enchiridion, no. 468.
40  “Porro subesse Romano Pontifici omni humanae creaturae declaramus, dicimus,
definimus
et
pronuntiamus
omnino
de
necessitate
salutis”
(Denzinger,
Enchiridion, no. 469).

The verdict condemning all Jews, heathens, unbelievers and
heretics was formulated at the Ecumenical Council of Florence in
1442. It stated that: “The Holy Roman Church ... strongly be-
lieves, recognizes and announces that no one outside the Catholic
Church, neither pagan nor Jew nor unbeliever nor one who is sev-
ered from the Church will enjoy eternal life, rather will he die in
the eternal fire that has been prepared for the devil and for his an-
gels, unless he joins the Catholic Church before dying.”41 The
Protestant equivalent of this “has been the firm assumption, not,
however, explicitly stated in an article of faith... that outside
Christianity there is no salvation. This note is to be heard not only
in old missionary statements but also in declarations made within
very recent years from the fundamentalist evangelical groups.”42
The Church especially felt subject to provocation from two re-
ligions: from Judaism, since the Jews had rejected and crucified
Christ; and from Islam, on account of the “blasphemous” claim of
divine revelation after Christ. It was for this reason that from the
beginning the most vehement Christian polemics were directed
against the prophet Muh.ammad and the faith he founded.
John of Damascus43 called him a liar-prophet44 and denigrated
Islam as the forerunner of the Antichrist.45 In Dante’s La Divina
Commedia the prophet Muh.ammad appears as “seminator di
scandalo e di scisma”, a crime for which he and the Ima-m ‘Ali- are
subjected to severe punishment in the ninth hell.46 When in
1529—a time when Vienna was under threat of Turkish occupa-

41 Denzinger, Enchiridion, no. 714.
42  John Hick, God and the Universe of Faiths, p. 120/121.
43 died circa 750.
44 As late as 1966, A. Spindeler, professor of Catholic moral theology and homiletics
in  Hildesheim, wrote that  Muh.ammad “is  nothing but a  liar  prophet... Thus,
Muh.ammad is and remains a false prophet” (Katholische Glaubenskorrespondenz,
ed. by the diocesan authorities of Hildesheim, issue 1).
45 Quoted in Gerhard Rosenkranz, Der christliche Glaube, p. 151ff.
46 The Divine Comedy: “Sowers of scandal and of schism” (Inferno XXVIII, 10-12).


tion—the Arabic text of the Qur’a-n was published in Venice, the
Pope immediately had the book put to the flame. Venice acquired
the nickname “whore of the Turks.”47
The foreword written by Theodor Bibliander for the new edi-
tion of the Latin translation of the Qur’a-n48 commissioned by
Petrus Venerabilis, Abbot of Cluny,49 is revealing. So, too, is that
in the first German edition of the Qur’a-n50 written by David Frie-
drich Megerlin. In both cases, the editors used the foreword to jus-
tify the publication of the book, an undertaking certainly not with-
out its dangers. Bibliander saw it as an indispensable duty to “ex-
pose the fraudulence of the heretics. The teachings of Mohammed,
which have for almost nine-hundred years held captive the great-
est part of the inhabited world, wreaking havoc like a cancerous
growth [should not merely be] disproved and rejected [but] stran-
gulated and destroyed once and for all.” Megerlin questioned
whether the German translation of the Qur’a-n he published would
not cause “anger and confusion, [since] this book of lies with its
denial of Jesus the Mediator and of the Trinity ought instead to be
burned and banned, nay rather utterly exterminated, as a falsifica-
tion of the Holy Scriptures.” The translator disclosed the fact that
he personally regarded “Mohammed as the great Antichrist and
the Koran as the Mark of the Beast51 and the false prophet.”
Megerlin believed the translation of the Qur’a-n in its entirety was
a good method “of becoming better acquainted with both the Anti-
christ Mohammed and his book of lies, the Koran, and then asking
God soon to put an end to this huge empire and its superstitious
religion presented in the Koran.”52

47 Quoted in Hans Küng, Christianity and the World Religions, p. 20.
48 Basel, 1543.
49 Died 1156.
50 Frankfurt 1772. Both forewords are published by Claus Schedl in the appendix to
his work Muhammad und Jesus.
51 Rev. 16:2; cf. Some Answered Questions 11:24-25.
52 Quoted in Schedl, op. cit., p. 570.

This brusque claim to exclusivity with regard to salvation was
supported even by the great French mathematician and religious
philosopher Blaise Pascal53 who, while being capable of remark-
able depth of thought, also displayed a frightening tendency to
narrow-mindedness: “Dieu par Jésus-Christ54... Dès lors, je refuse
toutes les autres religions55... Tout homme peut faire ce qu’a fait
Mahomet; car il n’a point fait de miracles, il n’a point été prédit;
nul homme ne peut faire ce qu’a fait Jésus-Christ.”56
The thinkers of the Reformation, too, shared this viewpoint.
Martin Luther wrote: “Apart from Christ there is nothing but sheer
idolatry, an idol and a false fiction about God, whether it is called
the Law of Moses or the law of the pope or the Koran of the
Turk.”57 In his work On War against the Turks58 (1529), we read
that he “read some parts of Mohammed’s Koran”59 from which he
concluded that Islam was “a patchwork of Jewish, Christian  and
heathen beliefs.”60 Furthermore, he regarded Muh.ammad “as a
destroyer of our Lord Christ61 [and believed that his] foul and
shameful book62 [in which] all abominations, all errors, all devils
are piled up in one heap63 [showed to the Christian] how much
need there was for prayer, and how he must first smite the Turk’s
Allah, that is, his god the devil, and overcome his power and di-

53 1623–1662.
54 Pensées 380 [“We know God only by Jesus Christ,” Thoughts, no. 547].
55 Pensées 466 [“Therefore I reject all other religions,” Thoughts, no. 737].
56 Pensées 598 [“Any man can do what Mahomet has done; for he performed no mira-
cles, he was not foretold. No man can do what Christ has done,EQ,” Thoughts, no.
600]
57 “Lectures on Galatians” (1535), in: Luther’s Works, vol. 26, p. 401.
58 in: Luther’s Works, vol. 46 (“The Christian in Society” III).
59 Ibid., p. 176.
60 Ibid., p. 177.
61 Ibid., p. 177.
62 Ibid., p. 176.
63 Ibid., p. 177.


vinity.”64 Calvin’s thoughts on the matter were no different from
those of Luther.
The polemical exclusivity of the Protestant concept of revela-
tion was upheld until very recently, even though there were other,
very different, voices making themselves heard. As late as 1936,
Islam was referred to in the journal Evangelisches Missionsmaga-
zin as “a particularly dangerous monstrosity from hell.”65 This po-
sition was confirmed by Rudolf Stählin in an encyclopaedia on
Christianity published in 1957, where he stated: “Only in Jesus
Christ is God Himself really manifested.”66 He asserted that in
other religions only man’s search for God and his attempt to create
self-fulfilment of this search67 was manifested: in other words
man was seeking self-redemption.
In recent times, it has been the Swiss theologian Karl Barth
who formulated the claim to exclusivity regarding salvation in the
most categorical and implacable manner. For him, as for the pro-
ponents of dialectical theology, the dominant trend in the post-war
era, the other religions are merely the work of man,68 unbelief;69
“contradiction to the revelation, the concentrated expression of
man’s unbelief;70 escape to religion, to adoring faith in a conge-
nial higher being.”71 Barth speaks of the “so-called religions,”
which in reality are the “false beliefs in false gods.”72 He even
goes so far as to call the non-Christian religions “the religions of
lies”73 and never tires of emphasizing that there is no relation be-

64 Ibid., p. 184.
65 p. 375.
66 Christliche Religion, Fischer-Lexikon, p. 231.
67 Ibid.
68 Der Römerbrief, p. 83.
69 Kirchliche Dogmatik, vol. I.2, p. 335.
70 Ibid. vol. I.2, p 330.
71 Church Dogmatics, vol. IV.2, p. 456.
72 Ibid. vol. IV.3.2, p. 875.
73 Kirchliche Dogmatik, vol. I.2, p. 377.

tween Christ and Belial; between light and darkness;74 between
truth and lies; that there is no unity of the Gospel and religion. In-
stead there can only be unity of religions in the sense that they all
lead to destruction.75
3. Even Islam, which acknowledges the prior history of salva-
tion in so far as it is testified to in the Qur’a-n, and which even ac-
knowledges the existence of divine messengers whose names are
not mentioned in the Qur’a-n,76 still saw in the Far Eastern relig-
ions of Buddhism and Hinduism—with the exception of a phe-
nomenon such as the Great Moghul Akbar77—nothing but idola-
try.78 Islam, too, made a stern and uncompromising claim to final-
ity based on the statement in the Qur’a-n that Muh.ammad was the
“Seal of the Prophets.”79 The doctrine that revelation ceased with

74 “What communion hath light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with
Belial?” (II Cor. 6:14-15).
75 Ibid. vol. I.2, p. 356ff.
76 Qur’a-n 4:165.
77 1542–1605. Cf. note 254.
78  On this subject see also chapter VII, p. 77.
79 kha-tamu’n-nabiyyi-n, 33:40. Other verses in the Qur’a-n also appear to uphold this
view: “This day I have perfected your religion for you” (5:5). “Whoso desireth any
other religion than Islam, that religion shall never be accepted from him, and in the
next world he shall be among the lost” (3:79). “The true religion with God is Is-
lam” (3:17). However, the hermeneutics of these verses leave open a different in-
terpretation from that of the dogma of the finality of prophethood (on this doctrine
cf. Mawdudi, Towards Understanding Islam, pp. 57-60). First, one must bear in
mind that the Qur’a-n uses two terms: rasu-l (= messenger), and nabi- (= prophet).
Rasu-l are the founders of the great religions, the divine messengers whom Baha-’-
u’lla-h calls al-maz.haru’l-ila-hi- (=Manifestations). Nabi- are those who foretell the
future, who announce future events in the history of salvation. Muh.ammad, like
the Manifestations before him was both rasu-l and nabi-. The Qur’a-nic verse 33:40
contains both terms: “Muh.ammad is not the father of any man among you, but he
is the Apostle of God, and the seal of the prophets” (kha-tamu’n-nabiyyi-n). Baha-’i-s
understand from this verse not that revelation has been sealed up, and that no more
divine messengers will come, but rather that Muh.ammad’s revelation marks the
end of the prophetic cycle (the universal cycle that started with Adam; cf. chap.
XI, 9, p. 141) which has announced and  prepared the way for the coming of the
Kingdom of God on earth. “In this perspective, Muh.ammad is the prophet prior to
the Last Day, rather than the last prophet in a temporal sense” (Seena


the advent of Muh.ammad is central to the teachings of orthodox
Islam, and one which is held to by Muslims of all sects. Hence, the
Muslims, too, believe that the fullness of salvation has been
granted through the coming of Muh.ammad.
Mediaeval theologians, philosophers and historians justified
this claim to finality with the argument that the evolution of relig-
ion had reached its culmination in Islam; and that Islam was the
most adequate, the most perfect religion, as evidenced in its teach-
ings.80 Modern Islamic thinkers regard a new revelation as super-
fluous, since through Islam man has reached maturity and the
guidance provided in the Qur’a-n corresponds to his level of devel-
opment.81

Fazel/Khazeh Fananapazir, “A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of Finality in Islam,”
in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 5.3, p. 29). This is why the Ba-b revealed: “When
God sent forth His Prophet Muh.ammad, on that day the termination of the pro-
phetic cycle was foreordained in the knowledge of God” (Selections 6:11:5). To
interpret the “perfection” of religion of which the Qur’a-n speaks (5:5) as the end-
ing of all revelation is neither cogent nor perceptive. It is Muh.ammad’s message
that has been perfected. The other verses are easily understood from the Qur’a-nic
terminology: the term “Islam” is not confined to the revelation of Muh.ammad, it is
the one, indivisible religion of God which was proclaimed by all prophets (cf.
chap. VII, p. 77). After all, the Qur’a-n clearly rejects the Jewish claims that on Si-
nai all revelation was completed (5:69). For further details see Fazel and Fanana-
pazir, in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 5.3, p. 17ff).
80 Mawdudi (Towards Understanding Islam, p. 57ff.) shares this viewpoint. In five
pages of his book he takes great pains to justify this doctrine with rational proofs.
His reasoning shows the weakness of the basis on which the doctrine of the finality
of prophethood stands.
81 cf. Fazlur Rahman, Major Themes of the Qur’a-n, p. 81. Rahman appreciates, how-
ever, that modern man is afflicted with moral confusion and that his moral con-
sciousness has not kept pace with his technical progress. Since man will, in the fu-
ture as in the past, still be in need of divine guidance he should look for it in the
holy books, especially in the Qur’a-n, and make use of it directly, i. e., without the
mediation of human religious authorities. Rahman sees the finality of Muh.am-
mad’s mission also confirmed historically, because—he believes—no other world
religion has come into being after Islam: “Not that there have been no claimants,
but there have been no successful claimants” (p. 81).

According to the doctrines of Shi-‘a Islam, the saviour expected
in the Last Days, who is associated with the names82 al-Mahdi-
(The Rightly-Guided One), al-Qa-’im (He Who will arise), S.ah.ibu’z-
Zama-n (The Lord of the Age), S.ah.ibu’l-Amr (The Lord of Com-
mand), al-Ima-m al-Muntaz.ar (The Awaited Imam), al-H. ujja (The
Proof), will not be a prophet or messenger of God. He will be
solely a restorer of Islam whose mission it will be to make the
Qur’a-n known throughout the world, establish Qur’a-nic law eve-
rywhere and “fill the earth with equity and justice.”83 He will
bring neither a new Book nor a new law from God. This is
strongly reminiscent of the Jewish understanding of the nature of
the Messiah. Although the Qur’a-n foretells for the day of judge-
ment, “when mankind shall stand before the Lord of all Being84...
a book distinctly written, witnessed by those brought nigh,”85
those theologians who proposed that the Qa-’im will rise with a
new authority, a new Book and a new religious law (Shari-‘a)86
were subject to criticism from Shi-‘a traditionalists.87
Thus, when the Ba-b appeared, it was not only his claim to be
the long-awaited salvation figure of the Last Days that provoked
such violent reaction. Above all, it was his assertion that he was
the Primal Point,88 i. e., a revealer of the Divine Word, a Manifes-
tation of God, bearing a new Law abrogating that of the Qur’a-n,

82 cf. Moojan Momen, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam, pp. 45, 165. On p. 168 an
enumeration of the specific signs of the Mahdi- is given.
83 H. adi-th, quoted in I. Goldziher, Introduction to Islamic Theology and Law, p. 198;
cf. also Shorter Encyclopaedia of Islam, “Al-Mahdi,” p. 312.
84 83:6.
85 83:20.
86 cf. Moojan Momen, op. cit., p. 169 no 6.
87 cf. Fazel and Fananapazir, “A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of Finality in Islam,”
in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 5.3, p. 30 ff.
88 Nuqt.atu’l-u-la-. In his Epistle to Muh.ammad Sha-h, the Ba-b revealed: “I am the Pri-
mal Point from which have been generated all created things. I am the Counte-
nance of God, Whose splendour can never be obscured” (Selections 1:4:4; cf. also
Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 279 (p. 252); Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 141 [p. 88]).


the Shari-‘a. It was this claim—one which contradicted the es-
chatological expectations of traditional Islamic doctrine—that at-
tracted the unmitigated hatred of the orthodox clergy. The merci-
less persecution of the Ba-bi-s and Baha-’i-s in Iran; the massacres
that took place in the nineteenth century and the bloody persecu-
tions that endure to this day; the brutal suppression of the Baha-’i-
community under the Ayatollah’s regime all find their theological
justification in this dogma of finality.89 Anyone who professes
faith in the new Revelation is guilty of apostasy90 and, according
to the law of the Shari-‘a, has forfeited his life as a renegade.91
VI.
Practical Intolerance as a Consequence
of Dogmatic Intolerance
This claim to exclusivity and superiority, in which one’s own
religion is regarded as a priori better than others; this self-
righteous, narrow-minded dogmatism that easily slips into fa-
naticism and whose roots are to be found in such vices as arro-

89 cf. Douglas  Martin, “The  Persecution of the Baha-’i-’s of Iran 1844-1984,” in: Ba-
ha-’i- Studies 12/13, Ottawa, 1984; cf. also the confidential document of the Secre-
tary of the Supreme Revolutionary Council, Dr. Seyyed Mohammed Golpaygani of
25 February 1991, signed by the State President ‘Ali- Khamenei, in which the
status of the Baha-’i-’s within the country’s system is described. In this document
we read: “The Government’s dealing with them must be in such a way that their
progress and development are blocked.” In this paper there is also a plan advo-
cated “to confront and to destroy their cultural roots outside the country” (pub-
lished, together with the Persian text, in: World Order, Fall 1993. pp. 46). As to
the theological reasons of these persecutions  see Payam  Akhavan, “Implications
of  Twelver  Shi-‘ih Mihdi-sm on Religious Tolerance: The Case of the Baha-’i- Mi-
nority in the Islamic Republic of Iran,” in: Vogt, Kari/Tore Lindholm (eds.), Is-
lamic Law Reform and Human Rights. Challenges and Rejoinders, Kopenhagen:
Scandinavian University Press, 1993.
90 ridda.
91 murtadd (cf. Shorter Encyclopaedia of Islam, p. 413). In the Qur’a-n (16:106) the
apostate is threatened with punishment in the next world only. In the fiqh there is
unanimity that the male apostate must be put to death.

gance, pride, and envy, attitudes which are condemned in all re-
ligions as sin or even mortal sin; this blindness to the faith,
feelings and thinking of others in whose beliefs one sees only
unbelief and superstition92: all these attitudes have always been
the primary cause of the demise of religion. They also have
constituted the rationale for inflicting untold suffering upon
people in the name of religion, for persecution, repression, de-
portation and mass-murder. This distorted representation of re-
ligion by theologians has caused “disapproval, contempt, dis-
putes and hatred [to arise among the peoples]... They teach
their followers to believe that their own form of religion is the
only one pleasing to God, and that followers of any other per-
suasion are condemned by the All-Loving Father and deprived
of His Mercy and Grace.”93
Hatred is never so profound and irreconcilable; envy never so
wretched and wars so merciless and cruel as when their motives
spring from the deepest levels of consciousness, from religious be-
lief: “Jamais on ne fait le mal si pleinement et si gaiement que
quand on le fait par conscience” writes Pascal.94 The forced bap-
tisms of Jews in the Middle Ages; the Crusades and holy wars; the
pogroms against the Jews; the displacement and extermination of
Jews and Muslims under the Spanish Inquisition; the European re-
ligious wars resulting from the Reformation right up to the pre-
sent-day conflicts in Northern Ireland; or in Punjab, Sudan, Alge-
ria and Lebanon, where people commit the most despicable atroci-
ties while having the watchwords of Islam on their lips;95 and last
but not least the bloody persecutions of the Baha-’i-s in Iran by a

92 cf. Gerhard Schweizer, Ungläubig sind die anderen. Weltreligionen zwischen To-
leranz und Fanatismus, Stuttgart 1990.
93 ‘Abdu’l-Baha- , Paris Talks 13:2.
94 Pensées 813 (“Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it
from religious conviction,” Thoughts no. 895).
95 “Alla-hu-Akbar!,” “Bismi’lla-hi’r-Rah.ma-ni’r-Rah. i-m!” (“God is greater!,” “In the
name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful”).


clerical, obscurantist regime96: all these are consequences of
claims to exclusivity and finality, and consequences of an intoler-
ance in which, according to the historian Arnold Toynbee, the ma-
jority of official representatives of Christian theology and the
Church see a necessity and glory of Christian doctrine97: Tantum
religio potuit suadere malorum!98
According to ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, “fanaticism and unreasoning reli-
gious zeal” are one of the principal reasons why “people of other
religions have shunned and failed to become converted to the
Faith of God.”99 Fanaticism—the perverted form of one of the
most exalted virtues, steadfastness100 in the Cause of God101—is
the worst deformation of religion. It is even worse than hypocrisy.
For that reason it is rigorously denounced in the Baha-’i- Scripture:
Religious fanaticism and hatred are a world-devouring fire,
whose violence none can quench. The Hand of Power can,
alone, deliver mankind from this desolating affliction.102
The people responsible for this dogmatism and fanaticism have
always been the clergy, the “blind guides” as Christ called
them,103 who “shut up the kingdom of heaven against men;”
who do not enter the kingdom themselves and do not let in

96 cf. footnote 89.
97 F. Heiler, “The History of Religions as a Preparation,” in: M. Eliade, The History
of Religions, p. 136.
98 Lucretian (the Roman poet and philosopher Titus Lucretius Carus, 97–55 B. C.),
De rerum naturae (On the Nature of Things) I, 101: “To such evils could religion
persuade mankind!.” A harsh criticism of this attitude in the history of religion can
be found in Immanuel Kant, Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone (Book
three, division two) p. 122.
99 The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 53. The Faith of God evidently refers here to
Islam.
100 al-istiqa-ma.
101 Gleanings 134:1; 161:1; 66:11; The Hidden Words, Arabic 48.
102 Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, 19 (p. 14).
103 Matt. 23:16, 19, 24.

those who wish to enter;104 “whom God causeth wilfully to
err”105 and who “repel believers from the way of God;”106 “who
are wrapt in the densest veils of learning;”107 and who “in the
valley of ignorance and pride, are lost in the wilds of remote-
ness”108:
Leaders of religion, in every age, have hindered their people
from attaining the shores of eternal salvation, inasmuch as they
held the reins of authority in their mighty grasp. Some for the
lust of leadership, others through want of knowledge and un-
derstanding, have been the cause of the deprivation of the peo-
ple.109
And yet there have been remarkable attempts by theologians to
overcome dogmatism and the delusion of exclusivity, and to de-
velop a more conciliatory, a more understanding attitude. Before
examining this aspect, however, let us turn our attention to the po-
sitions adopted by the various religions with respect to prior reli-
gious traditions.
VII.

The Attitude Towards Past Traditions
Religions do not come into being in a religious and cultural
vacuum. Neither Judaism nor Buddhism, neither Christianity
nor Islam, nor the Baha-’i- Faith, appeared in a creatio ex nihilo,
a sudden creation from nothing. Each stands in its own specific

104 Matt. 23:13-14.
105 Qur’a-n 45:22.
106 Qur’a-n 3:99.
107 Kita-b-i--qa-n 237 (p. 213).
I
108 Kita-b-i--qa-n 14 (p. 14).
I
109 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 15 (p. 15).


historical context, within a tradition which was taken as the
starting point by the founder of each religion. The faith of
Moses looked back to the prophets Noah and Abraham, Jesus
refers again and again to the Scriptures, the testimony of the
Jewish prophets known as the Old Testament. As early as the
second and third centuries, Christian theologians110 made refer-
ence to the whole of the previous history of salvation as de-
picted in the Bible, seeing it as a praeparatio evangelica, a
preparation for the Gospel. Using the principle of lógos sper-
matikós, they even included the pagan philosophers Plato, Aris-
totle and Plotinus in this process, regarding them as teachers
preparing mankind for the coming of Christ. Indeed, Augustine
wrote: “For what is now called the Christian religion existed
even among the ancients and was not lacking from the begin-
ning of the human race until ‘Christ came in the flesh.’ From
that time, true religion, which already existed, began to be
called Christian.”111
Like Judaism and Christianity, Islam also has a typological un-
derstanding of the history of salvation. It is seen as a continuous
revelation from God through his prophets and messengers, from
Adam, Noah and Abraham, to the Jewish prophets and Jesus: “Say
ye: ‘We believe in God, and that which hath been sent down to us,
and that which hath been sent down to Abraham and Ishmael and
Isaac and Jacob and the tribes: and that which hath been given to
Moses and to Jesus, and that which was given to the prophets from
their Lord. No difference do we make between any of them: and to
God are we resigned.’”112 To the Jews and Christians, who are
disunited but who both reject the new revelation, the Qur’a-n says:

110 Justin, Clemens Alexandrinus, Origenes.
111 The Retractations I,12,3.
112 Qur’a-n 2:130.

To every one of you have we given a rule and a beaten track.
And if God had pleased He had surely made you all one peo-
ple; but He would test you by what He hath given to each. Be
emulous, then, in good deeds. To God shall ye all return, and
He will tell you concerning the subjects of your disputes.113
The frequent enumeration of the chain of past prophets in the
Qur’a-n resembles a basso ostinato, a term used in music theory
to denote the continual recurrence of a theme with constantly
changing counterpoints.
In fact, the history of salvation is even more far-reaching than
would appear from the sequence of salvation figures named in the
Qur’a-n. The same book mentions that God has sent “to every peo-
ple an apostle” and has called all nations to the Straight Path.114 In
another Su-ra we read that “every people hath its guide.”115 Ac-
cording to the teachings of the Qur’a-n there is in reality only one
indivisible religion, which is intermittently revealed and renewed
by God’s messengers: Islam. Hence, this term refers not merely to
Muh.ammad, but is used in a general sense whereby even Noah,116
Abraham,117 Jacob,118 Joseph,119 Moses120 and the disciples of Je-
sus121 appear in the Qur’a-n as Muslims, that is, as upright believ-
ers who have submitted themselves to the Will of God.122 The ori-
entalist Frederick M. Denny has described the Qur’a-nic paradigm
of salvation history in this way:

113 Qur’a-n 5:52-53.
114 Qur’a-n 16:36.
115 Qur’a-n 13:7.
116 Qur’a-n 10:73.
117 Qur’a-n 3:60.
118 Qur’a-n 2:126ff.
119 Qur’a-n 12:102.
120 Qur’a-n 10:84; 7:122.
121 Qur’a-n 5:111.
122 cf. 3:60; 3:89.


So Muhammad connects his people horizontally and humanly
with the past back to Abraham, and vertically in the present
with God in a direct relationship. This is a real Heilsgeschichte
which shows forth God’s relations with his creatures as a con-
tinuing theme down through the generations. That is, God
brings the same truth and guidance always, but humans pervert
it and refuse it and go astray (‘but if they turn away, it is they
who are in schism’)123.124
It is in this way, then, and not in the sense of exclusivity with
regard to salvation—as Muslims assume—that we are to under-
stand the verse “The true religion with God is Islam.”125
Such an approach opens wide the door for a loving appreciation
of other religious traditions which, even if not in their specific cur-
rent form then at least in their origin, can be regarded as part of
salvation history as a whole. Thus, in Islam the entire prior history
of the prophets is considered to be a preparation for the coming of
Muh.ammad, in whom this history is brought to its fulfilment and
perfection. This concept of salvation history had far-reaching
practical consequences:
The followers of other prophetic religions were not forced to
become Muslims. The Qur’a-n contains the following instruction
as to how to treat them:
Verily, they who believe, and the Jews, and the Sabeites, and
the Christians: whoever of them believeth in God and in the
last day, and does what is right, on them shall come no fear,
neither shall they be put to grief.126

123 Qur’a-n 2:131.
124 Ethics and the Qur’a-n, p. 110.
125 Qur’a-n 3:17.
126  5:73; see also 2:59.

The People of the Book127—according to the restrictive inter-
pretation of orthodox theology, the Jews and the Christians
only—were not only tolerated, they were placed under the pro-
tection of Islam. They are the ahl adh-dhimma-h.128 Oppression
of them was condemned as a sinful excess. There are ah.a-di-
th according to which the  prophet Muh.ammad said: “Whoever
oppresses one of the dhimmi- and lays upon him burdens that
are too heavy, to him will I myself appear as an accuser on the
day of judgement,” “Whoever does any wrong to a Jew or a
Christian will have me as an accuser.”129 This genuine spirit of
religious tolerance,130 which has been expressed in the Qur’a-
n,131 was darkened in the course of history by narrow-minded
zealots such as the H. anbalites132 and the Shi-‘ite lawyers.133 It is
also due to the illiberal attitude of the orthodox ‘ulama-’ that the
circle of the dhimmi- was limited exclusively to the Jews and
Christians, although the Qur’a-n tells us explicitly that we have

127  ahl al-Kita-b.
128  See Shorter Encyclopaedia of Islam, “dhimma-h,” p. 75ff.
129  Quoted from Emile Dermenghem, The Life of Mahomet, p. 331.
130  For more details on this subject see my contribution The Light Shineth in Dark-
ness, p. 150ff., 154-162.
131  “Let there be no compulsion in religion” (2:257; see also 10:99-100; 50:45-46).
132  One of the four recognized orthodox schools of Islamic law (madha-hib), founded
by Ah.mad Ibn-H. anbal (d. 241/1855), which occupies “an extreme position with
respect to the zealous observance of the Sunna” (I. Goldziher, Introduction to Is-
lamic Theology and Law, p. 49) and which is characterized by “a thorough-going
rigidity” and an “intolerant attitude” (Shorter Encyclopaedia of Islam, p. 21).
133  As to Shi-‘a Islam I. Goldziher writes: “On examining the legal documents we find
that the Shi-‘i legal positions toward other faiths is much harsher and stiffer than
that taken by Sunni Muslims. Their law reveals a heightened intolerance to people
of other beliefs” (p. 213). This is also demonstrated by the Shi-‘ite concept of “im-
purity” (naja-sa): Whereas according to the Qur’a-n only the idolaters (mushriku-n)
are declared unclean (“only they who join Gods are unclean,” 9:28), the Shi‘ite
law includes all non-Muslims, even the ahl al-Kita-b (cf. Qur’a-n 3:70; 3:71; 3:99),
the “People of the Book,” with the result that touching of an unbeliever is listed
among the ten sins that produce naja-sa, ritual impurity (cf. I. Goldziher, Introduc-
tion to Islamic Theology and Law, p. 213).


no exhaustive list of Messengers sent by God to the various
peoples.134 Thus, neither Far Eastern religions nor other tradi-
tions were included in the recorded history of salvation.
Even Zarathustra, who is not expressly  mentioned  in  the
Qur’a-n,135 has posed a problem to Muslim theologians.136
In conclusion, it may be stated without doubt that the prophetic
religions have seen in their predecessors part of an evolutionary
process in which truth is revealed ever more fully. In each case,
however, believers have then gone on to assert that this process of
progressive revelation ended with the founder of their respective
religion and closed the door on future dispensations. Thus, the
promise of salvation at the time of the return of Christ,137 the Day
of Resurrection,138 the Great News139 and the Day of Sever-
ance,140 which might be associated with a new outpouring of the
divine Spirit, is dismissed as impossible.

134  40:78; 4:165. Muhammad Talbi calls this restrictive interpretation “dubious”
(“A Community of Communities: The Right to be Different and the Ways of Har-
mony,” p. 82).
135 In a letter not yet published in translation, ‘Abdu’l-Baha- answered the question
why the name Zarathustra did not appear in the Qur’a-n by referring to verses 25:40
and 50:12, where mention is made of “...those who dwelled at Rass.” He explained
that “Rass” means Aras (Araxes), and that this was a reference to Zarathustra
(cf. Marzieh Gail, Six Lessons on Islam, p. 14).
136 cf. Shorter Encyclopaedia of Islam, “Madju-s,” pp. 298-300.
137 Matt. 24ff.; II Peter 3:10, 13; Rev. 16:15, 3:2.
138 Yaumu’l-qiya-mah; cf. Qur’a-n 2:79, 107, 169; 3:70; 16:94; 22:17; 29:12, 25; 32:25;
39:67; 45:25; 75:6 etc. See also footnote 472.
139 an-naba’ al-‘az.i-m (Qur’a-n 78:2).
140 yaum al-fad.l (Qur’a-n 78:17; 37:20; 44:40; 77:14). Fad.l also implies division,
separation, reckoning.

VIII.
Promoters of Tolerance, Dialogue
and the Unity of Religions
The narrow-minded dogmatic separation of one’s own religion
from others, the assumption of the superiority of one’s religion
or its founder and the condemnation of all rival claims to salva-
tion were until recently the dominant attitudes throughout the
world. Tolerance and religious freedom were not won as a re-
sult of struggle by the Church, but rather against its embittered
opposition. “No freedom for error!” was the motto devised by
Cardinal Ottaviani and fought for by resistance forces within
the Catholic Church as late as the Second Vatican Council in
1965. It is to the Western Enlightenment that we owe the fact
that religious freedom is now constitutionally laid down and
protected in all constitutional states. The Catholic Church did
not acknowledge this basic right until the Second Vatican
Council.141
Yet there have always been individuals in the Church who have
broken through this one-sidedness and, contrary to official doc-
trine, pleaded for understanding and tolerance. As early as the
twelfth century Petrus Venerabilis,142 who had met Muslims in
Spain, condemned the terrible deeds perpetrated against the Mus-
lims in the first Crusade and demanded that Christians study the
Muslims’ religion from its sources and seek to convert them in a
spirit of Christian love.143 The first Latin translation of the Qur’a-
n, which he commissioned, was published before the second Cru-
sade in 1143.144

141 in its Declaration on the Relation of the Church to non-Christian Religions.
142 cf. above p. 68.
143 Rosenkranz, Der christliche Glaube, p. 151.
144 In his letter to Bernard of Clairvaux  enclosed with the new  translation of the
Qur’a-n he refers to Islam, whether out of conviction or for the sake of caution, as


In his book De pace seu concordantia fidei145 published in
1453, Nicolaus of Kues (Cusanus, 1401–1464), a Cardinal of the
Catholic Church who was strongly influenced by the mystic writ-
ings of Meister Eckhart and sought reconciliation above all else,
presented the view, sensational for the time, that all religions,
however varied their rites, were based on one common faith.146
This understanding enabled him to reach a deeper appreciation of
the prophet Muh.ammad.
The Protestant theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–
1834) also succeeded in breaking out of the entrenched and arro-
gant official dogmatism of the Church. In his speeches147 he em-
braced the entire diversity of the non-Christian religions and
praised the unity of all religions, arguing that “The further you
progress in the subject of religion, the more the whole religious
world necessarily appears as an indivisible whole.”148 Proceeding
from a general concept of religion, he came to define religion as
the sense of utter dependence, a definition that bears a remarkable
resemblance to the literal meaning of the word “Islam.”
In this context mention should also be made of the Swedish Lu-
theran Archbishop Nathan Söderblom (1866–1931), likewise an
outstanding scholar of religious studies, who declared on his
deathbed that “God lives, I can prove it by the history of relig-

“an evil, ominous heresy of Machumet,” an “error that surpasses all errors,” the
“scum of all heresies in which are brought together the remnants of all the devilish
sects that have arisen since the coming of the Saviour”; he complains that “almost
half the earth is infected with this deadly plague” (quoted in Claus Schedl, Mu-
hammad und Jesus—the appendix (p. 567) contains a German translation of this
letter).
145  [“On the peace of Faith.”]
146 German edition: Über den Frieden im Glauben, ed. Ernst Hoffmann, Leipzig 1943,
chap. 1, 114. French edition: Nicolas de Cues, La Paix de la Foi (Extraits), in:
Oeuvres choissis de Nicolas de Cues, Paris: Aubier, 1942.
147  On Religion: Speeches to its Cultural Despisers (1799).
148 Fourth speech.

ion.”149 He expounded this principle in his posthumously pub-
lished work  The Living God, Basal Forms of Personal Relig-
ion.150 Another noteworthy theologian, Rudolf Otto (1869–1937),
author of The Idea of the Holy,151 a book published in numerous
editions and languages. In 1921 Otto founded the Religiöser
Menschheitsbund152 with the aim of reducing interreligious dis-
trust and hatred. After World War II this organization was affili-
ated under the name Weltbund der Religionen with the World
Congress of Faiths.
The extent to which the Zeitgeist153 was imbued with the idea
of the unity of religions is demonstrated by the World Parliament
of Religions held in Chicago in 1893 in association with the World
Exhibition. This event, which also saw the first public presentation
of the religion of Baha-’u’lla-h,154 marked the beginning of the
modern era of interfaith relations.155 The initiators of this World
Parliament of Religions were “seized with the spirit of
understanding among the nation’s true religions.”156 This spirit
was reflected in the words of welcome by which the Parliament
was addressed:
This day the sun of a new era of religious peace and progress
rises over the world, dispelling the dark clouds of sectarian
strife. This day a new flower blossoms in the gardens of reli-

149 Quoted in Friedrich Heiler, “The History of Religions as a Preparation,” p. 135.
150  The Gifford Lectures, delivered at the University of Edinburgh in the year 1931,
London: H. Milford, Oxford University Press, 1933.
151  6th impression, revised with additions, London-Edinburgh: Oxford University
Press, 1931. Original German edition: Das Heilige, Berlin 1917.
152 [Religious Federation of Mankind].
153 Lit. “the spirit of the time,” the moral and intellectual trend of a given period.
154 cf. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 256.
155 cf. Karl-Josef Kuschel, “The Parliament of the World’s Religions, 1893-1993,” in:
H. Küng/K.-J. Kuschel (eds.), A Global Ethic. The Declaration of the Parliament
of the World’s Religions, p. 77.
156 Karl-Josef Kuschel, “The Parliament of the World’s Religions, 1893-1993,” in:
H. Küng/K.-J. Kuschel (eds.), A Global Ethic, p. 79.


gious thought, filling the air with its exquisite perfume. This
day a new fraternity is born into the world of human progress,
to aid in the upbuilding of the kingdom of God in the hearts of
men. Era and flower and fraternity bear one name. It is a name
which will gladden the hearts of those who worship God and
love man in every clime. Those who hear its music joyfully
echo it back to sun and flower. It is the brotherhood of relig-
ions.157
Although the turn of the century was not yet the time for really
coming to terms with the plurality of religions,158 this spirit also
influenced such representatives of liberal Protestantism as Ernst
Troeltsch and Friedrich Heiler,159 as well as the philosopher
Savarpalli Radhakrishnan and the British historian Arnold Toyn-
bee.
Heiler was a passionate advocate of interfaith understanding
and co-operation. Filled with compassion for “a torn humanity
which has passed through so many catastrophes ... which is still
bleeding from so many wounds,”160 he worked ceaselessly in the

157 C. C. Bonney, “Words of Welcome,” in: R. H. Seager (ed.), The Dawn of Religious
Pluralism, p. 21ff.
158 Although the initiators of the 1893 Parliament were concerned about demonstrat-
ing the plurality of religions with equal rights and equal status; and although the
spirit of understanding among nations prevailed in the heads of the participants, a
Christianity-centred world view was still dominant in the world: “In their hearts
the Christian churches still hoped that they would be the beneficiaries of the proc-
ess of modernity. For with the globalization and universalization of technology,
economics and industry, Christianity seemed to have the best prospects of estab-
lishing itself as a universal religion” (K.-J. Kuschel, op. cit., p. 85). What the
Christian churches actually had in mind became apparent at the World Missionary
Conference of Protestant missionary societies that took place in 1910 in Edin-
burgh, and that saw Christianity “as having a unique historical opportunity. In al-
most apocalyptic language they enthused about the ‘uniqueness of the historical
moment,’ which lay in the fact that the Christianization of the whole world could
be expected within a space of only ten years” (ibid.).
159 1892–1967.
160 The History of Religions as a Preparation, p. 158.

cause of interreligious dialogue. Like Rudolf Otto he observed the
many parallels between Christianity and other religions, remarking
that “one really must say that there is no religious concept, no
dogmatic teaching, no ethical command, no churchly institution,
no ritual form and practice of piety in Christianity which does not
have diverse parallels in non-Christian religions.”161 By no means
does he overlook the obvious differences in religions, but he none-
theless affirms that: “Important as these differences may be, they
are overarched by an ultimate unity,”162 since all the religions
teach “the way to God” and “at the same time the way to one’s
neighbour as well.”163 The Baha-’i-s are particularly indebted to
Friedrich Heiler. In an expert opinion dated 4 December 1961 re-
lating to the persecution of Baha-’i-s in Turkey, he gave emphatic
support to the position that the Baha-’i- Faith is not a sect, espe-
cially not one of Islam. Rather, it is a universal religion equal in
status to that of Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Islam and
Christianity.164
Savarpalli Radhakrishnan—one of the most highly educated
and knowledgeable scholars in the field of religious studies, pro-
fessor at Oxford, ambassador in Moscow and ultimately President
of India—acknowledged that nothing serves the cause of world
peace better than the overcoming of dogmatic claims to exclusiv-
ity, the establishment of fraternal understanding among religions
and the recognition of the latent mystic unity of all religions. He
was convinced that all religions are paths to the Eternal One, Who
has manifested himself to believers under different names and as-
pects. Beyond the rites, dogmas and a necessarily inadequate sym-

161 Ibid. p. 139.
162 Ibid. p. 142ff.
163 Ibid., p. 145.
164 cf. Udo Schaefer, The Baha-’i- Faith: Sect or Religion?, p. 17 .


symbolism, he saw the one religion of the Spirit, from which
could be born a renewed belief in God.165
Arnold Toynbee, neither a theologian nor a scholar of religious
studies but an historian with a commitment to Christianity, called
for the religions to put aside their deep-rooted differences and
stand together to face “a fearful common adversary: a revival of
the worship of collective human power.”166 In their attitude to-
wards evil,167 in their approach to the “problem of suffering,”168
in their conviction that the true destiny of man is to bring himself
into harmony169 with God, the absolute reality, Toynbee saw the
common foundation of all religions; compared with which “the is-
sues that divide them seem secondary.”170 This meant that “retain-
ing one’s convictions is not incompatible with abandoning a tradi-
tional attitude of rivalry and hostility towards people whose con-
victions differ from one’s own.”171 Toynbee, who saw a promis-
ing future for the Baha-’i- Faith and considered the nine-sided
House of Worship in Wilmette symbolic,172 was of the opinion
that “if God loved mankind [it would seem unlikely] that He
would not have made other revelations to other people as well.”173
He believed Christians should acknowledge that other religions
have also come from God and that each has presented some facet
of God’s truth; and should recognize that “they too are light radi-
ating from the same source from which our own religion derives
its spiritual light.”174 He was convinced that Christians today

165 cf. S. Radhakrishnan, Recovery of Faith, London 1956.
166 Christianity Among the Religions of the World, p. 85.
167 Ibid. p. 21ff.
168 Ibid. p. 24ff.
169 Ibid. p. 81.
170 Ibid. p. 81.
171 Ibid. p. 82.
172 Ibid. p. 104.
173 Ibid. p. 96.
174 Ibid. p. 100.

could face the future with confidence, if they faced it with charity
and humility, without fanaticism, arrogance, self-centredness or
pride;175 and if they took to heart the words of the Roman city pre-
fect and spokesman of the Senate, Quintus Aurelius Symmachus,
in a petition to Bishop Ambrosius of Milan,176 calling for the
preservation of an altar in the Senate that had been consecrated by
Augustus: “It is impossible that so great a mystery should be ap-
proached by one road only.”177
The new orientation for the Catholic Church established at the
Second Vatican Council was undoubtedly of epochal significance.
In the Declaration on the Relation of the Church to Non-Christian
Religions178 it was conceded that in other religions such as Hindu-
ism and Buddhism there was to be found “a certain recognition of
that hidden power which is present in history and human affairs,
and in fact sometimes an acknowledgement of a supreme God-
head...179 The Catholic Church rejects nothing which is true and
holy in these religions. She has a sincere respect for those ways of
acting and living, those moral and doctrinal teachings which may
differ in many respects from what she holds and teaches, but
which none the less often reflect the brightness of that Truth
which is the light of all men.”180
The Declaration also includes respectful comments about Is-
lam. The Muslims are regarded with esteem because they endeav-
our to submit themselves to God’s “mysterious decrees. They ven-
erate Jesus as a prophet, without, however, recognizing him as
God, and they pay honour to his virgin mother Mary...; they ex-
pect a day of judgement” and “attach importance to the moral life

175 Ibid. p. 111.
176 died 397.
177 Toynbee, op. cit., p. 112.
178 De ecclesia habitudine ad religiones non-christianas. English edition: London
(Catholic Truth Society) 1966.
179 Declaration, p. 3 (no. 2).
180 Ibid. p. 4 (no 2).


and worship God, mainly by prayer, alms-giving and fasting.”181
What is significant is above all the admonishment “to forget the
past, to make sincere efforts at mutual understanding and to work
together in protecting and promoting for the benefit of all men,
social justice, good morals as well as peace and freedom.”182
However, the Church still holds fast to the view that people can
find the fullness of their religious life only in Jesus Christ, who is
“the way, the truth and the life (John 14:6).”183 In comparison
with earlier dogmatic statements the Vatican II pronouncements
are, as John Hick states, “magnificently open and charitable. The
emotional climate has changed, and has changed radically and for
the better; and there can be no question that these new pro-
nouncements represent a major step forward. But still Vatican II
has not made the Copernican revolution that is needed in the
Christian attitude to other faiths.”184 What the Church has relin-
quished is its hitherto intransigent attitude of condemnation to-
wards all non-Christian religions. It is, however, far from seeing
outpourings of divine revelation in these religions. They are, at
best, regarded as evidence of man’s quest for God—“even if only
in shadows and images.” Everything which is found to be “good
and true in the religion” is considered “preparation for the Glad
Tidings.”185 The phrase devised by the Church Fathers whereby

181 Declaration, p. 4ff. (no. 3).
182 Ibid. p. 5 (no. 3).
183 Ibid. p. 4 (no. 2).
184  God and the Universe of Faiths, p. 126.
185 Catechism of the Catholic Church no. 843 with reference to the Council Decree
Lumen gentium, dated 21 November 1964, no. 16. This attitude  is also evident
from a statement of Pope John Paul II in his recent book, based on an interview
with a journalist (French edition: Entrez dans l’espérance, livre-entretien de Jean
Paul II avec le journalist Vittorio Messori, Paris: Mame-Plon, 1994) in which he
places the prophet Muh.ammad and the Buddha on an equal level with the philoso-
pher Socrates, and in which he assigns to Jesus Christ the unique station above all
the other founders of the great religions: “Le Christ n’est pas un ‘sage’ comme So-
crate, ni un ‘prophète’ comme Mahomet, ni un ‘illuminé’ comme Bouddha. Le
Dieu fait homme des chrétiens n’a rien de commun avec celui des musulmans,

there is no salvation outside the Church186 has not been rescinded
but merely modified by stating that “those who, through no fault
of their own, do not know Christ and the Church” are exempted
from this verdict.187
The fact that we are now living in a global society in which
technology permits much greater mobility than was previously
possible, and the fact that huge migrations have come about due to
wars, persecution and poverty in many parts of the world, means
that the borders established on the basis of religion have gradually
become blurred. The earth has become a communicational unity
through radio and television, mass tourism and mass publications.
People have become vividly aware of the plurality of faiths. Thus,
the religions no longer exist separated from one another in distant
continents: They exist very close together—and now find them-
selves confronted by an urgent necessity for an interfaith dia-
logue.188 Such a dialogue presupposes that one endeavour “to un-

‘resté étranger au monde,’ ni avec Bouddha qui le fuit. Le pape sait la menace de
‘relativisme’ qui pèse sur le christianisme (toutes les religions ne se valent-elles
pas?), notamment l’attraction pour les techniques de méditation et d’ascèse des
disciplines orientales, celles du new age et des gnoses nouvelles. Il en démonte un
à un les dangers et propose comme alternative la mystique chrétienne qui, elle,
repose sur une attitude positive envers le monde et une volonté de le transformer”
(quoted from a review of Henri Tinco, Le Monde, 18 October 1994).
186 “Extra ecclesiam nulla salus.” This phrase corresponds to the assumption of the
nineteen-century Protestant missionary movement: outside Christianity no salva-
tion. On Christian exclusivism see John Hick, God Has Many Names, p. 29ff.;
Problems of Religious Pluralism, p. 31ff.
187 Catechism of the Catholic Church (quoted from the German edition, Katechismus
der Katholischen Kirche, München-Wien 1993) no. 847 with reference to the
Council Decree Lumen gentium no. 16. This formula is still very close to the allo-
cution of Pope Pius IX. in 1854: “It must... be held as a matter of faith, that out-
side the Apostolic Roman Church no one can be saved, that the Church is the only
arc of salvation, and that whoever does not enter it will perish in the flood. On the
other hand, it must likewise be held as certain that those who are affected by igno-
rance of true religion, if it is invincible ignorance, are not subject to any guilt in
this matter before the eyes of the Lord” (quoted from Denzinger, Enchiridion,
no. 1647).
188 cf. Marcus Braybrooke, Pilgrimage of Hope. One Hundred Years of Global Inter-


derstand another tradition for its own sake and in its own terms...
Inescapably, this means putting an end to deliberate misrepresen-
tation and distortion of the position of one’s dialogue partner.”189
Such a dialogue depends also on each side’s readiness to steer
clear of the odious tendency “to compare the ideals of one’s own
with the achievements of another”190 religion.
In accordance with this new approach, the World Council of
Churches published Guidelines in 1977,191 which advocated an
end to confrontation and its replacement with dialogue in a spirit
of reconciliation. It is stressed that such dialogue cannot take place
in a spirit of triumphalism and condescension,192 or in an aggres-
sive Christian militancy.193 The document has called upon Chris-
tians not to limit God to the dimensions of our human understand-
ing,194 but to endeavour to speak the truth in the spirit of love,195
to be guided not by prejudice and stereotyping but rather by the
self-understanding of each respective religion,196 not to disfig-
ure197 other religions but to see dialogue as an appropriate way of
fulfilling the commandment “You shall not bear false witness
against your neighbour.”198 This appeal for Christians to enter into
dialogue in a spirit of repentance, humility and integrity199 in or-
der to make possible a true encounter of people of different relig-

faith Dialogue, London and New York, 1992. The book traces the effect of the
first Parliament of Religions on the subsequent movement for understanding
among the religions.
189 Oxtoby, The Meaning of Other Faiths, p. 82ff.
190 Ibid. p. 83.
191 Guidelines on Dialogue with People of Living Faiths and Ideologies, Geneva:
World Council of Churches, 1979.
192 I:14.
193 II:18.
194 I:15.
195 II:19; cf. Eph. 4:15.
196 III:4.
197 II:17.
198 II:17; cf. Deut. 5:20.
199 II:21.

ions200 has most certainly constituted a milestone in the history of
interfaith relations, even if a major gap is still occasionally appar-
ent between the professed aims and ideals and what happens in re-
ality.201
The most outstanding advocates of interfaith dialogue aimed at
overcoming the tendency to dogmatic segregation and isolation
are currently Hans Küng, John Hick, Leonard Swidler, Paul Knit-
ter, Wilfred Cantwell Smith, Raimondo Panikkar and Paul
Schwarzenau. A controversial figure in his own church—he was
divested of the missio canonica—the Catholic theologian Hans
Küng has raised the call for interfaith dialogue. We are living in
an interdependent world, in which borders drawn on the basis of
religion are no longer clear-cut and numerous believers of diverse
faiths live in our midst. And “for the first time in the history of the
world,” says Küng “we seem to be witnessing the slow awakening
of global ecumenical consciousness and the beginning of a serious
religious dialogue202.... Ecumenism should not be limited to the
community of Christian churches; it must include the community
of the great religions,” just as oikumene in the original sense of
the word means “the whole inhabited world.”203
In the closing years of the second millennium Küng has recog-
nized that such interfaith dialogue is now an indispensable aspect
of world politics upon which world peace depends: “There will be

200 II:22.
201 A Church-run publishing house was evidently not in the forefront of this develop-
ment when, in 1981, it released a highly tendentious publication on the Baha-’i-
Faith, denoting it as “a standard guide for a long time to come.” The image pre-
sented of the Baha-’i- Faith is greatly distorted (Francesco Ficicchia, Der Baha-’is-
mus. Weltreligion der Zukunft? Geschichte, Lehre und Organization in kritischer
Anfrage, Stuttgart, 1981). A rebuttal has been published: Udo Schaefer/Nicola
Towfigh/ Ulrich Gollmer, Desinformation als Methode. Die Baha-’ismus-Mono-
graphie des F. Ficicchia, Hildesheim: Olms-Verlag, 1995 (English edition in pre-
paration).
202 Christianity and the World Religions, p. XIV.
203 Ibid.


no peace among the peoples of this world without peace among
the world religions.”204 This appeal, Küng affirms, is not demand-
ing the impossible of the religions and various churches; he
merely asks that they live up to their own programs and basic in-
tentions, that they direct their appeals for peace not only toward
the outside, but also “that they do deeds of reconciliation and be-
gin to remove the conflicts of which they themselves are the cause
and for whose explosiveness they are partly to blame.”205 By this
he means their claims to finality and exclusivity.
Not content with appeals alone, Küng has modified and re-
viewed his own dogmatic positions and approached his encounters
with other faiths with an astonishing openness. In 1982 he held a
series of lectures in co-operation with other religious studies spe-
cialists on Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism and Christianity as part of
the general studies course at the University of Tübingen. These
lectures were later (1984) published as Christianity and the World
Religions.206 The conclusions he has reached are astounding. He
acknowledges Muh.ammad as a prophet of God and the Qur’a-n as
the Word of God.207 He has established the common features of
Islam and Christianity, without ignoring the points at which they
diverge. He concludes that: “I can as a Christian be convinced that
if I have chosen this Jesus as the Christ for my life and death, then
along with him I have chosen his follower Muhammad, insofar as
he appeals to one and the same God and to Jesus.”208 Küng was
also the initiator of the congress organized in February 1989 by
the Goethe Institute in Paris No World Peace Without Religious
Peace at which scholars of the world’s major religions discussed

204 Ibid. p. 443.
205 Ibid. p. 442.
206 Subtitle: Paths of Dialogue with Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism.
207 Ibid. pp. 24ff., 31.
208 Ibid. p. 129.

the contributions made by the religions towards the promotion of
human rights and world peace.209
A further contribution made by Küng to interfaith dialogue has
been his book on the search for a global ethic.210 In this work,
Küng acknowledges that the one world in which we live only has
a chance of survival if it succeeds in developing global ethical
standards: “This one world needs one basic ethic.”211 He demon-
strates convincingly that religion alone is capable of guaranteeing
the basic pre-requisite of such an ethic—its unconditional na-
ture—and demands that “some binding norms, values, ideals and
goals”212 be derived from the ethical principles of the world relig-
ions, the common ethic, which “unites all the great religions.”213
It was also Küng who, on behalf of the preparation council,
drafted the “Declaration of the Parliament of the World’s Reli-
gions” on the principles of a global ethic. This was passed and
promulgated in Chicago on 4 September 1993.214 The Declaration,
signed by outstanding representatives of the participating religions
such as the Dalai Lama, the Cardinal of Chicago, the representa-
tive of the World Council of Churches, a president of the World
Lutheran League, the general secretary of the World Conference of
Religions for Peace (WCRP), the spiritual leader of the Sikhs, the
Patriarch of Cambodian Buddhism, an important rabbi, a leading
Muslim feminist and a representative of the Baha-’i- International
Community, as well as an overwhelming majority of the delegates
from all religions, is a remarkable document of interfaith co-

209 Süddeutsche Zeitung, 14.2.1989.
210 Originally published in German as Projekt Weltethos, München 1990. English edi-
tion: Global Responsibility. In Search of a New World Ethic, London 1991.
211 Global Responsibility, p. XVI.
212 op. cit., p. XVI.
213 op. cit., p. 55.
214 Küng reports about the origins, the difficulties and the complicated process of this
undertaking, in: H. Küng/Karl-Josef Kuschel, A Global Ethic. The Declaration of
the Parliament of the World’s Religions, London 1993.


operation. In order to overcome the crisis of orientation evident
throughout much of the world, a minimum ethics—“a minimum
of common values, criteria and basic attitudes”215—was formu-
lated out of the moral and spiritual resources of all the religions as
a solution to the basic ethical problems of the world:
We confirm that there is already a consensus among the relig-
ions which can be the basis for a global ethic—a minimal fun-
damental consensus concerning binding values, irrevocable
standards, and fundamental moral attitudes ... We affirm that
there is an irrevocable, unconditional norm for all areas of life,
for families and communities, for races, nations and religions.
There already exist ancient guidelines for human behaviour
which are found in the teachings of the religions of the world
and which are the conditions for a sustainable world order.216
The formulation incorporates the Golden Rule which can be dem-
onstrated in all the great traditions, and the four ancient directives
which also can be found in all the great religions: Do not kill, do
not steal, do not lie, do not commit fornication.217 The Declaration
also includes the statement: “We affirm that a common set of val-
ues is found in the teachings of the religions, and that these form
the basis of a global ethic.”218 In his speech to the Parliament,
Küng declared that: “The force of religious convictions must be
applied to overcome the global problems of humankind. But this
can happen only if the religions stop wearing one another down in
disputes, fomenting conflicts and preaching fanaticism, and reflect

215 Küng, A Global Ethic, p. 73.
216 Declaration Toward a Global Ethic, quoted from H. Küng,/H.-J. Kuschel,
A Global Ethic, pp. 18, 14.
217 cf. Part II,4 and Part III,5 of the Declaration.
218 Küng/Kuschel, A Global Ethic, p. 16.

on what is common to them. If they do that, the power of religions
would benefit all humankind.”219
The fact that the representatives of the world religions gathered
together at the same time in one place, stood side by side with
equal rights and communicated with respect for one another, with-
out “any claim to superiority on the part of one religion over an-
other—at least for the time of the parliament”220—is a sign of
hope in a world where religious fanaticism still incites and legiti-
mates violence and bloody conflicts in many countries.
IX.
The Role of Comparative Religious Studies
With the exception of Radhakrishnan and Toynbee, all the
opinions discussed so far have been those of theologians. These
theologians were or are exponents of their churches; they are
rooted in Christian teachings and—at least for the most part—
regard the other religions through Christian eyes, with Christian
assumptions, with Christian pre-judgement. Someone who is
committed to a particular truth generally has difficulty in ap-
preciating and understanding other religious phenomena or in
even accepting that behind them, too, there is truth.
It might be supposed that academics involved in comparative
religious studies, a discipline committed to the upholding of scien-
tific principles, should be able to reach correct, objective conclu-
sions more easily than those participating in theological research
into other religions, whose work—originally seen as ancillary to
Christian theology—is still frequently of a nature reminiscent of
an apologia or missionary tract. The undogmatic study of religions

219 Kuschel, “Parliament of the World’s Religions 1893–1993,” in: Küng/Kuschel,
A Global Ethic, p. 102.
220 Kuschel, op. cit., p. 81.


without reference to Christianity’s claim to exclusivity dates from
the eighteenth century. Johann Gottfried Herder and Friedrich
Schleiermacher, both theologians, encouraged such research, in
particular the publication, translation and philological interpreta-
tion of the Holy Writings of the major world religions. Of course,
the question of truth is irrelevant to this branch of study. In a sci-
entific approach the question of the objective foundations of relig-
ion—i. e., the questions of God and revelation—must be left out
of consideration, as must also the doctrinal and ethical content of
each respective religion. The central concepts of metaphysics such
as “God, freedom and immortality”221 are, as Kant has demon-
strated, beyond our rational understanding or empirical experi-
ence. Religious studies are descriptive, narrative, comparative; its
individual disciplines are religious history, religious phenomenol-
ogy, religious psychology and religious sociology.
Research in the field of religious studies has made available
translations of the scriptures of religions, biographies of the foun-
ders of religions, histories of their development and expansion,
and descriptions of their religious phenomena. The hard work of
many generations of scholars has left us with an immense body of
material. One result, at least, has been achieved: religions that in
the past were condemned without anything being known about
them are now known. Their history, writings, laws, customs and
forms of worship are all known today. This is a first step in re-
sponding to the urgent need for enlightenment. It has already had
the effect of proving that the most derogatory and condemnatory
verdicts are unfounded. Tolerance has undoubtedly grown. It is
only a small minority of researchers, however, who have begun to
approach genuine understanding.
It must be realized that many scholars in the field of religious
studies were in the past and still now also are Christian theologi-

221 Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, Introduction III, 7.

ans. Only a few have been prepared to lay aside their traditional
denominational blinkers and to take seriously the religious phe-
nomena they have observed. Even such scholars as the Swede Tor
Andrae, who was genuinely concerned about taking an under-
standing attitude and tried in his biography of Muh.ammad222 to do
justice to the prophet and to defend him from the worst accusa-
tions, was hardly able, in his capacity as a Lutheran Bishop, to do
other than portray Muh.ammad as a fallible human being and
measure him against his own image of Christ. Not surprisingly,
the comparison worked out to the disadvantage of Muh.ammad.
A scholar in this field who is not committed to a particular de-
nomination does not need to take into account his church’s official
standpoint. Yet it would not be true to say that he is therefore able
to approach his subject free of a priori judgements and values.
Academic studies which are truly objective and value-free are
possible, at best, in the natural sciences; and even there, the ab-
sence of presumptions can only be guaranteed to a limited extent,
since even these sciences cannot be conducted without certain
fundamental axioms. The disciplines associated with cultural stud-
ies cannot be pursued without reference to values, and any type of
evaluation depends upon some yardstick, some kind of assump-
tion. Historical research, for example, uses historical facts in order
to understand events. The historian’s understanding or interpreta-
tion is, however, dependent on his basic beliefs and convictions.
This is why, for instance, there are so many different answers to
the question of the causes of World War I, despite extensive
knowledge of the facts; and this is why the evaluations of the
prophet Muh.ammad by such historians as Jacob Burckhardt and
Arnold Toynbee are so widely divergent.

222 Mohammed: The Man and His Faith, translated from the German by Theophil
Menzel, London 1936.


In the study of religions the evaluation of the phenomena ob-
served is even more dependent on the researcher’s premises and
subjective views than is the case in history. Those researchers who
seem not to be bound to the concept of revelation as defined in
Christian dogma and who appear to approach other religions open-
mindedly do, nonetheless, harbour their own dogmatic assump-
tions, such as their conviction  that there is no such thing as reve-
lation. The messages of the religions are not the Word of God but
merely the work of man.
In an earlier publication223 I discussed this problem at some
length in connection with research in the field of Islamic studies,
where the difficulties are particularly evident. It might therefore be
worth quoting a significant passage from that work:
Different results are only to be expected if Islam is portrayed
by a committed Christian, by a hard-boiled atheist or by a Mus-
lim. The researcher’s attitude to his subject—i. e., that divine
revelation after Christ is impossible, that there is no such thing
as divine revelation, or that the Arab prophet revealed the
Word of God—is bound to be reflected in the way it is por-
trayed. For it is of crucial significance whether a religion is
portrayed from within or without. An individual who is not
content with a mere description of religious phenomena and
their interpretation according to subjective criteria which are
presumed to be absolute standards, should direct his attention
to the interpretation of a religion by those who believe in it.224
I find my views confirmed by Willard G. Oxtoby, a Canadian
scholar in the field of religious studies. Having studied this phe-

223 The Light Shineth in Darkness, p. 138ff.
224 Ibid. p. 139.

nomenon of dogmatic pre-assumptions, he has come up with the
following rule of thumb: “You get out what you put in.”225
A further example showing how religious pre-assumptions af-
fect the researcher’s evaluation of his results is in the Protestant
scholar Gustav Mensching’s standard work Soziologie der Reli-
gion.226 In the section concerning the legal structures of religions,
and in particular of the Church, he concludes that the Spirit
(pneuma) and the law are basically incompatible as their relation-
ship is one of reverse reciprocity. He argues that the vitality of the
Spirit is characterized by an absence or a minimum of legal or-
ganization. He regards the existence of such a legal organization
as a criterion by which the decline in the vitality of the original
Spirit can be measured. The history of the Church does, indeed,
offer ample material which might support such a view. Mensching
comes to an a priori conclusion, however, when he makes the fol-
lowing generalization: “Where the spirit unites and guides people
there is no need for organization, but when the vitality of the spirit
declines a uniting and guiding organizational form becomes nec-
essary.”227
This, then, is also his verdict concerning the Baha-’i- commu-
nity—which is structured and governed according to a rule of
law—and its administrative order.228 This verdict, which I dealt
with at length in my doctoral thesis,229 clearly emanates from a

225 Quoted in Küng, Christianity and the World Religions, p. 29. Küng quotes from
Oxtoby’s The Meaning of Other Faiths (Philadelphia, 1983), no page number
cited.
226 Bonn 11947, 21968. French edition: Sociologie Religieuse. Le rôle de la religion
dans les relations communautaires des humains, Paris 1951.
227 Ibid., p. 186.
228 Indeed, the Baha-’i- community and its order are subjected to harsh criticism by the
late leader of a Protestant Research Centre (Evangelische Zentralstelle für Weltan-
schauungsfragen, Stuttgart), Kurt Hutten, in his work Seher, Grübler, Enthusias-
ten, Stuttgart 1982, as well as in the publication referred to in footnote 201 pub-
lished by the same centre.
229 Die Grundlagen der Verwaltungsordnung der Baha’i, p. 40ff.


Protestant, spiritualist and charismatic concept of religion, a posi-
tion radically upheld by the professor of canon law, Rudolf
Sohm,230 and shared by the Swiss theologian, Emil Brunner231: re-
ligious truth cannot possibly take on a legal structure without sac-
rificing its very essence, since “the spirit bloweth where it wil-
leth.”232 However, this view is a Protestant prejudice that does not
do justice to other religions in which the legal structure has been
established by the Founder of the religion, as is the case in the
Baha-’i- Faith. Once again we are confronted with a prejudicial
verdict passed by an academic authority, which on closer exami-
nation proves to be unscientific and dogmatic.233
In fact, the prejudice of agnosticism is not an advantage; it is
frequently even more of a disadvantage than denominational
prejudice. Non-religious researchers subsume the result they have
obtained from historical and phenomenological research under the
religious concepts acquired from Christianity and Judaism, and
thus obstruct their own way to a proper understanding of the reli-
gion under study. Very often they lack sympathy, sensitivity and
understanding for the fundamental religious element which lies in
the sphere of the numinous or irrational and which does not reveal

230 Referring to Matt. 18:20 (“For where two or three are gathered together in my
name, there I am in the midst of them”) and John 3:8 (“The wind blows where it
listeth and thou hearest the sound thereof but canst not tell whence it cometh and
wither it goes: So is everyone that is born in the spirit”), Sohm strongly con-
demned the fact that in the course of its history the Church assumed a structure
based on law. According to him, this was the “Church’s Fall.” The order destined
for the Church was, as Sohm asserted, that of a “pneumatic anarchy.” His thesis is
based upon his conviction that spirit and law are incompatible opposites (Kirchen-
recht, vol. 1, p. 1, 20ff., 700).
231 The Misunderstanding of the Church, London: Lutherworth Press 1952, Philadel-
phia: Westminster Press 1953.
232  cf. John 3:8
233 For more details on this subject I refer to my elucidations in U. Schaefer/
N. Towfigh/U. Gollmer, Desinformation als Methode. Die Baha-’ismus-Monogra-
phie des F. Ficicchia, chapter 3, I.

itself to purely intellectual research.234 Basically one can say that
the judgements of a non-religious person, or of an atheist who sees
in religion nothing more than a human striving for truth, or a long-
ing for a father-figure (as in the Our Father of the Lord’s
Prayer)235 or a search for comfort and security, are about as rele-
vant to the field of religious studies as that of a deaf person about
a symphony.
As already noted, Western research on the subject of Islam
demonstrates the influence of the researcher’s prior assumptions
on his conclusions. A person who believes the Qur’a-n to be the
Word of God will find his view confirmed when he reads it. The
situation is completely different if one is of the opinion that the
Qur’a-n is not the Word of God. A reader who sees in it only the
words of Muh.ammad236 will regard it as a hodge-podge of theo-
logical bits and pieces, gathered by Muh.ammad from a variety of
different sources and randomly thrown together. Thus it can be
mistakenly concluded that Muh.ammad usurped the station of
Prophet, and that therefore he was a false prophet. Alternatively, it
has been asserted that he was an epileptic,237 a politician whose
success rested on a pious fraud, or at best a victim of self-delusion.
If the Qur’a-n is not the result of divine revelation, then it can only
be of human origin, i. e., it must be eclectic or syncretistic in na-

234 The Light Shineth in Darkness, p. 138ff.
235 For Sigmund Freud “a personal God is, psychologically, nothing other than an ex-
alted father”; the belief in God: a “father complex” (Sigmund Freud, “Leonardo da
Vinci,” in: The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund
Freud, vol. XI [1910], p. 123; religion: “a hallucinatory delusion” (ibid., “The Fu-
ture of an Illusion,” in: The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological
Works of Sigmund Freud, vol. XXI), a “universal obsessional neurosis” (“Obses-
sive Acts and Religious Practices,” p. 34).
236 William Muir quotes (unfortunately without giving the source) the German orien-
talist von Hammer (presumably von Hammer-Purgstall) as stating “that we hold
the Coran to be as surely Mahomet’s word, as the Mahometans hold it to be the
word of God” (The Life of Mahomet, p. XXVII).
237 For instance Frants Buhl, Das Leben Muhammeds, p. 139.


ture. Hence, nearly without exception, Western researchers portray
Islam as an amalgam of pagan, Jewish and Christian concepts and
teachings. Entire generations of researchers238 have made it their
life’s work to trace the supposed origins of the elements of Islamic
teaching and to prove the syncretistic nature of Islam.239 Goldzi-
her calls Islam an “eclectic component of religious ideas” and as-
serts that its “receptive character...  was moulded at its birth and
inherent in its regulations... Its  founder, Muh.ammad, did not
proclaim new ideas. He did not enrich earlier conceptions of
man’s relation to the transcendental and infinite.”240 In an earlier
publication241 I discussed at length this image of Islam among
scholars in the field of religious studies, and more detailed infor-
mation may be obtained there. The remarks to be found in the
relevant literature are typified by the following statement from the
renowned orientalist Francesco Gabrieli concerning the prophet
Muh.ammad: “That he was no great thinker is evidenced by his ob-
scure and chaotic holy book, in which are dutifully gathered the
revelations he believed himself to have received over a period of
two decades from his God and Lord.”242 Similar verdicts were
passed by the theologian Gerhard Rosenkranz on Baha-’u’lla-h’s
Kita-b-i-Aqdas, which he describes as a “hodge-podge of instruc-
tions,”243 and by the orientalist Christian Cannuyer who calls this

238 Noteworthy among these are, in particular, Tor Andrae, Karl Vollers, Richard
Hartmann, Hubert Grimme, Ignaz Goldziher, C. H. Becker, H. v. Glasenapp.
239 “The eclecticism that marked the infancy of Islam only now reached its full fertil-
ity. It is among the most fascinating problems of research for those who devote
their attention to this province of religious literature to track down the widely dif-
ferent sources from which this motley material springs, and to understand the
trends and aspirations that it documents” (Goldziher, Introduction to Islamic The-
ology and Law, p. 40/41).
240 Ibid. p. 5.
241 The Light Shineth in Darkness, p. 144ff.
242 “Muh.ammad und der Islam als weltgeschichtliche Erscheinungen,” in Historia
Mundi. Handbuch der Weltgeschichte, vol. 5, p. 347.
243 Die Baha-’i-, p. 32.

work “assez désordonné. Il présente un caractère assez décousu,
fait un peu de bric et de broc.”244
The question whether any holy Scripture is the Word of God or
at least contains the Word of God, or, is merely the word of man is
not something which can be answered scientifically: It is a ques-
tion of faith. It should, however, be expected of a scholar investi-
gating a religion that he conduct his research under the hypothesis
that the Book which has been holy to many generations and is still
holy to millions of people at least might be the Word of God.
Wilfred Cantwell Smith, professor of Comparative History of Re-
ligions at Harvard University, has succinctly analyzed this ques-
tion of the researcher’s pre-assumptions in examining the Qur’a-n.
He writes:
If an outsider picks up the book and goes through it even ask-
ing himself, ‘What is there here that has led Muslims to sup-
pose this from God?,’ he will miss the reverberating impact. If,
on the other hand, he picks up the book and asks himself, What
would these sentences convey to me if I believed them to be
God’s word? then he can much more effectively understand
what has been happening these many centuries in the Muslim
world.245
Smith has established the principle that no statement about re-
ligion—presumably meaning ‘about the self-image of a relig-
ion’—is valid until it is recognized by the adherents of this re-
ligion itself.246 Similarly, the theologian Karl Ernst Nipkow re-
fers to the “well-known hermeneutical rule that a foreign tradi-
tion should be presented in such a wise that its representatives

244  Les Baha-’i-s, p. 70. For more details on this subject I refer to my remarks in
U. Schaefer/N. Towfigh/U. Gollmer, Desinformation als Methode, ch. 5, III, 4.
245 On Understanding Islam, p. 291.
246 Quoted in Küng, Christianity and the World Religions, p. 97.


can accept it as their own interpretation.”247 Leonard Swidler,
in referring to Wilfred Cantwell Smith and Raimondo Panikkar
states that “the side interpreted must be able to recognize itself
in the interpretation.”248 If such standards were taken seriously,
the reproaches of unbelief and of superstition would no longer
hinder interfaith dialogue: Unbelief is the verdict of believers
on the hypotheses of enlightened scholars of religious studies;
and superstition is the verdict of the latter on religion. After all,
religion is their subject and something that they claim to
know better than the believers themselves. Baha-’i-s know what
this means. In many portrayals of their faith made by scholars
of religious studies they can hardly recognize themselves. Of-
ten what they see is a completely distorted image.
It is undeniable that a more understanding attitude is gradually
emerging in this field of study. And it is already evident that it is
the religiously committed researchers, rather than those who are
indifferent towards religion, who are in the forefront of this devel-
opment. That Wilfred Cantwell Smith has devoted a whole chapter
to the question “Is the Qur’a-n the Word of God?”249 would have
been unthinkable in the past. Some Christian theologians, too,
have asked this question and have finally answered in the affirma-
tive: for instance, Paul Schwarzenau sees Muh.ammad as a prophet
and the Qur’a-n as a post-biblical divine revelation;250 likewise
Hans Küng.251 When Smith writes about the transformation that is
taking place, namely: “I am deeply persuaded that in the twentieth
and twenty-first centuries the religious history of humankind will

247 “Oikumene,” in: Johannes Lähnemann (ed.), Die Wiederkehr der Religionen,
p. 180.
248 “Interreligious and Interideological Dialogue,” p. 44.
249 On Understanding Islam, p. 282ff.
250 Korankunde für Christen. Ein Zugang zum heiligen Buch der Moslems, Stuttgart
1982.
251 Christianity and World Religions, p. 28ff.

be taking a major new turn,”252 the Baha-’i-s can agree with him in
a much more profound sense than Smith might surmise.
What the academic branch of religious studies can do is to
make an important contribution to the awakening of an attitude of
mutual respect and understanding among religions and to the pro-
motion of readiness to enter into dialogue. A prerequisite for such
rapprochement is the acknowledgement in Küng’s words that
Truth cannot be different in the different religions, but only
one: through all the contradictions, we have to seek what is
complementary; through all the exclusions, that which is inclu-
sive.253
What should not be expected of this branch of study, and some-
thing which would be of service to no-one, is the creation by
means of eclecticism of a uniform world religion as a sort of
substrate of all the various religions.254 Such a syncretistic re-
ligion (which the Baha-’i- Faith is frequently purported to be255)

252 On Understanding Islam, p. 299.
253 Christianity and the World Religions, pp. XVIII-XVIX.
254 An historical attempt to produce such an eclectic mixture in the form of a religion
of unity took place in Northern India in the seventeenth century. The Great
Moghul Akbar, himself a Muslim, who ruled over a disunited population (Mus-
lims, Sikhs, Christians, Hindus, and Parsees) summoned representatives of each of
the religions to his court and, in order to bring about harmony in his kingdom, cre-
ated from elements of all the religious traditions a new “divine faith” (Di-n-i-ila-hi-)
which he promulgated in 1682. Despite his good intentions, this syncretism was
not well received and his religion did not survive his death (cf. Oxtoby, The Mean-
ing of Other Faiths, p. 74ff.).
255 cf., for instance, Rosenkranz, Die Baha-’i-, p. 50ff.; Rosenkranz, Der christliche
Glaube, p. 45; W. K. Visser’t Hooft, No Other Name, p. 43ff.; Oxtoby, The Mean-
ing of Other Faiths, p. 75. Historical facts show this reproach to be unfounded;
something created synthetically by means of eclecticism, as the above example
shows, does not have the inherent power which has made of the Baha-’i- Faith 150
years after its birth a dynamic, rapidly expanding religion which, in geographical
terms, is now the second most widespread religion after Christianity (cf. Encyclo-
paedia Britannica. Book of the Year 1988, p. 3).


with its random pluralism resulting from absolute indifference,
is not at all desirable. As Rosenkranz rightly points out, the
best that might be expected from such a religion would be, “an
anything-goes religion with pale, bloodless phrases and aes-
thetically touching, romantic and fanciful rituals.”256
Another thing scholars of religious studies cannot do is to de-
liver incontrovertible proof of the unity of the religions. At best,
they can provide evidence that such unity is plausible, that one can
see it if one so chooses. It is like a glass of water which, depend-
ing on the observer’s point of view, is either half full or half
empty: both views are correct. Similarly, one can regard the dif-
ferences and contradictions among religions as the most important
aspect; or, if one chooses, one can recognize that beyond the di-
versity there is an essence which is the same in all.
Wilfred Cantwell Smith is one of those scholars who have pos-
ited a unity among the world religions, “a unity of mankind’s reli-
gious history.”257 N. Ross Reat and Edmund Perry view the five
world religions they examine (Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism,
Christianity and Islam) as “different expressions of the same valid
ultimate reality”258—as “divergent symbolic expressions of this
central reality,” which is universally valid.259 Recognizing that the
days are passed when religious thought could adequately serve
humanity by championing the religion of a single civilization,260
they have attempted to find the common denominator of these re-
ligions and to construct a “world theology,” reconceptualizing the
ultimate referent of each religion so that its universal validity is no

256 Der christliche Glaube angesichts der Weltreligionen, p. 104.
257 “Those who believe in the unity of humankind, and those who believe in the unity
of God, should be prepared therefore to discover a unity of humankind’s religious
history” (Towards a World Theology, p. 4).
258 Towards a World Theology, p. 1
259 op. cit., p. 7.
260 op. cit., p. 1.

longer obscured.261 The theologian and religious philosopher John
Hick, who persuasively argues for a philosophy of religious plu-
ralism262 calls for a “Copernican revolution in our Christian atti-
tude to other religions.”263 Just as the Copernican revolution in as-
tronomy “consisted in a transformation of the way in which men
understood the universe and their own location within it,” the Co-
pernican revolution in theology “must involve an equally radical
transformation of our conception of the universe of faiths and the
place of our own religion within it. It must involve a shift from the
dogma that Christianity is at the centre to the sort that it is God
who is at the centre and that all the religions of mankind, includ-
ing our own, serve and revolve around him.”264
What is beyond the scope of scientific research is to depict a
history of the salvation of mankind running as a Leitmotiv through
all the world’s religions in accordance with a divine Plan, as it is
described in the Writings of the Ba-b and of Baha-’u’lla-h. Academ-
ics are not in a position to fathom the plans and intentions of God.
They can, however, analyze the structures and characteristics that
religions have in common, aspects which many thinkers have ac-
knowledged and interpreted as the “unity of religions.” Let us now
go on to examine what these common features are.

261 op. cit., p. 6. See also John B. Cobb, Jr., “Christian Witness in a Pluralistic
World,” in: John Hick/Hasan Askari (eds.), The Experience of Religious Diversity,
Aldershot 1985. It is noteworthy that there are similar attempts in the field of phi-
losophy. David A. Dilworth tries to put Eastern and Western philosophies and re-
ligions into a common theoretical framework “that repossesses our pre-modern and
modern, Eastern and Western philosophical heritages”: “We need a new and essen-
tially comparative hermeneutical expertise to be able to understand and appreciate
the major texts of world philosophy, and to co-ordinate their lessons into a single
intertextual picture” (Philosophy in World Perspective, p. 6).
262  God Has Many Names, p. 88ff.
263 God Has Many Names, p. 36; God and the Universe of Faiths, p. 120ff.
264  Ibid.


X.
Una Religio in Rituum Varietate265
Most of the arguments used in Christian apologetics in refer-
ence to the erroneousness and inferiority of non-Christian relig-
ions have been rendered untenable by scientific inquiry into the
direct sources of these religions.266 Research in the sphere of
religious studies has revealed more and more clearly how
closely related and how similar the phenomena of the various
religions are, despite all the differences in forms, rituals and
laws. According to the Harvard orientalist, Annemarie Schim-
mel, such differences belong to the outer sphere of religion, the
husk which separates one religion from the other.267 Friedrich
Schleiermacher warned students of religion:
If you want to compare religion with religion as the eternal pro-
gressing work of the world spirit, you must give up the vain
and futile wish that there ought to be only one; your antipathy
against the variety of religions must be let aside, and with as
much impartiality as possible you must join all those which
have developed from the eternally abandoned bosom of the
Universe through the changing forms and progressive tradi-
tions of man.268
However confusingly different they may be, the religions are
messages of salvation, providing answers to the eternal funda-
mental questions of human existence: Where do I come from,
and where am I going? What is the purpose of my life? Why
must I suffer? How should I live, what is right and wrong?

265 This phrase originates from Nicolaus Cusanus; cf. pp. 84 and 159
266 Heiler, “The History of Religions as a Preparation,” p. 139.
267 Der Beitrag der islamischen Mystik zur Einheit der Religionen, p. 47.
268 On Religion, Speech 5 (241).

What is the source of man’s moral consciousness and moral re-
sponsibility? Each religion sees itself as a path to a meaningful
life; to well-being; and to the salvation of both the individual
and mankind as a whole. The following constitutes a summary
of only the essential similarities.
1. The first fundamental point that all religions have in com-
mon is the conviction that religious phenomena are based on the
reality of the Transcendental, the Holy, the Divine, the Eternal
One,269 the Great Being,270 and that beyond all the fluctuations
there exists eternal reason, an eternal order, a non-material Ulti-
mate Reality, the Reality of Realities,271 the Eternal Truth272
which is neither empirically verifiable nor logically demonstra-
ble.273 Whereas in the religions of the East the Real, the Ultimate
is conceived as non-personal, it has been given personal character-
istics in the Near-Eastern prophetic religions, expressed in human
images, such as the image of the Ruler, the Lord, the Father, the
Friend, the Beloved, and in names such as Jahwe, Allah, and
Ahura Mazda. However, these images and names are merely in-
adequate descriptions of that Ultimate Reality. They are like the
foothills of a mountain that always remain shrouded in darkness, a
“Cape of Good Hope.”274 They are symbolic expressions which
present this Ultimate Reality to human apprehension.
As to the question why the Ultimate or Real should be thought
and experienced by human beings in a range of different ways
rather than in only one way, John Hick elucidated:

269  John Hick, God Has Many Names, p. 22.
270  Baha-’u’lla-h, Tablets 11:3; 11:6; 11:8; 11:12 etc.; see also Hans Küng, in:
Küng/Kuschel, A Global Ethic, p. 65.
271 satyasya satyam in the Upanishads.
272 al-h.aqq in S. ufism.
273 Reat/Perry, A World Theology, p. 2.
274 Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 208.


We ‘see through a glass, darkly,’ and the glass is constituted by
the set of human concepts operating within our cultures. The
result is the range of ways of conceiving and experiencing the
divine that is to be found in history275... We can I think only
fall back upon the fact that human existence has developed in
partially different ways within different streams of history, so
that the great cultures of the earth have come to constitute dif-
ferent ways of being human. As such they involve different
ways of being religious. Different human mentalities—the In-
dian, the Chinese, the Graeco-Semitic, the African, etc.—have
experienced the Ultimate in partially different perspectives.276
However, perspectives may well be complementary, enlarging
and correcting rather than contradicting one another. And it
may well be that in the future, with the emergence of a global
human consciousness, the religious traditions will become able
fully to accept one another as permissible variations, mutually
contributory to a greater understanding of the Ultimate.277
2. Another feature common to all religions is the belief that this
transcendental reality reveals itself to mankind in the form of
great, holy figures, who speak to man and show him the path to
the sanctification of his life; the path to salvation; and that this
transcendental reality is immanent in the human heart. St. Paul
describes man as “the temple of God.”278 St. Augustine states

275  God Has Many Names, p. 67.
276  This is quite in accordance with ‘Abdu’l-Baha-’s statement: “The differences
among the religions of the world are due to the varying types of minds” (Selections
31:5).
277  “Religious Diversity as Challenge and Promise,” p. 20. On this subject see also
M. Momen’s noteworthy contribution “Relativism: A Basis for Baha-’i--Meta-
physics,” in: M. Momen (ed.), Studies in the Ba-bi- and Baha-’i- Religions, vol. 5,
pp. 185-217.
278 I Cor. 3:16; II Cor. 6:16.

that God is “interior intimo meo.”279 According to the Qur’a-n,
God is closer to man than his neck-vein,280 and according to
Baha-’u’lla-h “closer than his own self.”281 In his Scripture also,
man is described as a temple of the Divine; a robe, a garment, a
stronghold;282 as a throne of the revelation of God,283 and as a
lamp filled with divine light.284
3. Furthermore, all religions share the conviction that this ulti-
mate reality which we call God—and which in Buddhism, where
the concept of God is absent285 but is brought to bear in the terms
Nirvana, Shunyata and Dharmakaya—is man’s ultimate and high-
est goal. It is the embodiment of absolute perfection, truth, and
justice and of all that is good and beautiful. It is the summum bo-
num, the highest good. In all religions it is therefore the goal that
is striven for: “‘What is not the eternal,’ said Gotama Buddha, ‘is
not worthy of man’s rejoicing, not worthy that man should wel-
come it nor turn to it’.”286
4. Religions all share the teaching that that which we call God
is justice, love, compassion and mercy, which are generously
poured out over mankind. God is love according to John,287 and in
Buddhism the innermost essence of the Divine is “the great heart
of compassion” (maha--karun.a--citta).288

279 Confessions, III, VI: “more inward than my most inward part.”
280 50:15.
281 Gleanings 93:6.
282 The Hidden Words, Arabic 58, 64, 14, 9, 10.
283 Gleanings 93:5.
284 The Hidden Words, Arabic 11, 12.
285 On this subject see Raimondo Panikkar, The Silence of God. The Answer of the
Buddha. Transl. from Italian, New York 1989. I refer also to Jack McLean’s “Pro-
legomena to a Baha-’i- Theology,” p. 31, footnote 16.
286 Majjhima-Nikaya II, 263.
287 I John 4:16.
288 Nehan-gyo (Nirvana-sutra), quoted from B. Lane-Suzuki, Mahayana Buddhism,
p. 117.


5. A further feature common to all religions is the idea that
man’s path to God is one of sacrifice, renunciation, resignation,
moral discipline, the via purgativa, prayer and meditation. In
prayer, Friedrich Heiler points out, “all high religions agree, that
their saints and devotees together form one great invisible chorus
of prayer.”289
6. Furthermore, all religions teach that the path to God is also
the path to one’s neighbour, service to others, the via activa. All
religions demand boundless love for one’s neighbour, a love from
which no-one is excluded. Buddha commanded his disciples:
“Fare ye forth, brethren, on the mission that is for the good of the
many, for the happiness of the many, to take compassion on the
world, to work profit and good and happiness to gods and
men.”290 His words are reminiscent of those of Christ when he
said: “I have compassion on the multitude,291 because they
fainted, and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shep-
herd.”292
7. In all religions this love also includes love for one’s enemies.
The opinion that the command to love one’s enemy is unique to
Christianity is a prejudice traceable to Tertullian.293 This com-
mand is to be found in Judaism,294 Buddhism, Taoism and Brah-
manism, as well as in S. ufism. Lao Tse demands of his followers
that they recompense injury with kindness.295 In the Maha-bha-rata
we read that it is one’s duty to help “even an enemy, when he
sought one’s hospitality. The tree continued to give its protecting

289 “The History of Religions as a Preparation,” p. 145.
290 Digha Nikaya XIV, 22 [45] (Mahapadana-Suttanta).
291 Matt. 15:32.
292 Matt. 9:36.
293 Ad Scapulam I.
294  cf. Ex. 23:4-5; Lev. 19:17. On this subject see Hermann Cohen, Religion of Rea-
son out of the Sources of Judaism, ch. XXII.
295 Tao Tê King LXIII.

shadow to the man who was cutting it down.”296 Love for one’s
neighbour and one’s enemy is a constantly recurring theme in the
Buddhist scriptures.297
8. It is the essential message of all religions that man’s life has
significance, beyond biological survival and the pursuit of pleas-
ure.298 Religions all share the belief that man’s life is not confined
to this earthly existence, that he possesses an immortal soul, that
the hour of his death is the hour of truth in which he is called to
account for his life on earth and that he will be rewarded for the
good and punished for the bad.
According to the sayings of Buddha two things dog man’s
“steps like shadow in pursuit” when death catches up with him:
“man’s merits and the sins he here hath wrought299... Not in the
sky, not in the midst of the sea, not if we enter into the clefts of the
mountains, is there known a spot in the whole world where a man
might be freed from an evil deed300... [Hence] let him make good
store for the life elsewhere. Sure platform in some other future
world, rewards for the virtue on good beings wait.”301 According
to the Gospel all who “do inequity will be gathered [and] cast into
the furnace of the fire302 [whereas for them who keep the com-
mandments the] reward is great in heaven.”303 In the Qur’a-n it is
revealed: “Shall he then who is a believer be as he who sinneth
grossly? They shall not be held alike. As to those who believe and
do that which is right, they shall have gardens of eternal abode as

296 Quoted from J. M. Macfie, The Maha-bha-rata, p. 162 (XII. The Book of Consola-
tion).
297 More on this subject see Friedrich Heiler, “The History of Religions as a Prepara-
tion,” p. 148ff.
298 Reat/Perry, A World Theology, p. 1.
299 Sanyutta Nikaya, Part I, Kosala Sutta 71 (p. 98).
300 Dhammapada 127.
301 Sanyutta Nikaya, ibid.
302 Matt. 13:41-43.
303 Luke 6:13.


the meed of their works: But as for those who grossly sin, their
abode shall be the fire.”304 According to Baha-’u’lla-h “the canopy
of World Order is upraised upon the two pillars of reward and
punishment.”305 All good and bad done by man in this earthly life,
even the secrets of his heart are known to the divine Judge306:
Death, unheralded, shall come upon thee and thou shalt be
called to give account for thy deeds307... [Then] for every act
performed shall be a recompense according to the estimate of
God.308
Annemarie Schimmel has pointed out that the image of a Para-
dise promising everlasting bliss, joy, peace and eternal life is to
be found in nearly all the major religions.309
9. The idea is enshrined in all religions that man must live on
earth according to certain standards in order to attain salvation
both in this life and in the life to come. All religions have estab-
lished a set of values, a moral code, a yardstick for distinguishing
right and wrong; guidelines for human behaviour.310 Everywhere

304 32:20-21; 21:57-59.
305 Tablets 8:55; 8:61; 3:25; 11:6.
306 The Hidden Words, Persian 59, 60; Gleanings 70.
307 The Hidden Words, Arabic 31.
308 Tablets 12:24.
309 “Der Beitrag der islamischen Mystik zur Einheit der Religionen,” p. 47ff.
310 As already mentioned, the Declaration of the Parliament of the World’s Religions
acknowledged that among the religions there is a universal fundamental consensus
concerning binding rules, irrevocable standards, and fundamental attitudes. This
acknowledgement is all the more significant since today, under the influence of
secular thought, the majority of Catholic moral theologians proclaim the autonomy
of morals and hold the opinion that as far as the content is concerned there can be
no specific Christian morality (Alfons Auer, Autonome Moral und christlicher
Glaube, Tübingen 21977; Hans Böckle, “Werte und Normbegründung,” in: Böckle,
Franz/ Franz-Xaver Kaufmann/Karl Rahner/Bernhard Welte [eds.], Christlicher
Glaube in moderner Gesellschaft, vol. 12, Freiburg-Basel-Wien, 1981, pp. 37-89;
Herbert Haag, “Vor dem Bösen ratlos,” in: zur debatte. Themen der Katholischen
Akademie in Bayern 1979, Issue 2)—a position which has been rejected by Pope

we come across the basic commandments not to kill, to steal, to
lie, or to commit adultery. Everywhere we find the demand that
man should bear fruit in this life, do good and shun evil.
Common to all religions are the central virtues for which man
should strive, virtues such as love, compassion, pity, goodness,
justice, righteousness, truthfulness, honesty, uprightness, trustwor-
thiness, chastity, gentleness, humility, patience, selflessness, de-
tachment, and piety. The negative qualities branded as sin are also
largely identical: hatred, greed, covetousness, malice, envy, anger,
arrogance, haughtiness, pride, idleness, lying, hypocrisy, crafti-
ness, rancour, cruelty and so on.
These virtues and vices appear in the religions in a variety of
contexts, expressed in different language and with particular shifts
of emphasis. However, the differences among them are of little
importance. Some such differences have arisen owing to the over-
emphasis or even exaggeration of certain virtues in a particular re-
ligion (such as that of chastity in Christianity,311 or in Islam that of
submission to  God, which  led  to the  quietism of the mutawakki-
lu-n312). Other such differences have arisen as a result of the rele-
gation of certain values to the periphery or even to their abandon-

John Paul II in his encyclical Veritatis Splendor, proclaimed on 6 August 1993
(see nos. 13, 15, 84ff., 102ff., 114ff.). For Protestant theology, too, the Christian
ethic is not based on revealed norms and values but rather on the life lived in the
recognition of the reality of God and in community with him (Rudolf Stählin in the
encyclopaedia “Christliche Religion” [keyword “Ethos,” p. 81]; Eberhard Jüngel,
“Wertlose Wahrheit,” in: Karl Schmidt/E. Jüngel/E. Schelz, Die Tyrannei der Wer-
te, pp. 5, 47ff.).
311 For details see U. Schaefer, The Imperishable Dominion, p. 175ff., p. 218.
312 From tawakkul: trust in God. Already in an early period Muslim ascetics practised
an exaggerated form of trust in God, a quietistic attitude which led to total indif-
ference to one’s personal interests: “Those who professed it abandoned themselves
completely to God’s care and to the fate that God had fixed for them. They were in
God’s hand as a corpse in the hands of its washer: indifferent and wholly without
volition. In this sense they called themselves mutawakkilu-n, ‘those who trust in
God’” (Ignaz Goldziher, Introduction to Islamic Theology and Law, p. 132).


ment, e. g. the cardinal virtue of justice in Protestant theology and
ethics.313
10. This common ethical basis of all major religions, the com-
mon ethic, which “unites all the great religions”314 and which is
mankind’s Great Spiritual Heritage,315 is demonstrated conclu-
sively in the Golden Rule known to us from the Gospel: “There-
fore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do
ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.”316 With
this verse Christ declares this universal commandment to be the
quintessence of religion. Indeed, it is to be found in all relig-
ions.317
In response to the question “Is there a value according to which
one can act throughout one’s life?” Confucius answered: “The
saying about consideration: ‘Never do to others what you would
not like them to do to you’.”318 In the Maha-bha-rata, one of the
Hindu holy scriptures, is the statement: “One should not behave
towards others in a way which is unpleasant for oneself: that is the

313 According to the philosopher Gustav Radbruch, Protestant moral teachings tend to
dissolve justice in the sea of mercy (“Gerechtigkeit und Gnade,” in: Rechtsphi-
losophie, p. 332): “In these teachings justice has no or only secondary status. The
commandment of love applies where inter-human relationships are concerned, the
commandment of faith rules the individual’s behaviour towards God, whilst God’s
relationship with mankind is determined by the promise of mercy... In this system
of Christian virtues there is no place for the first of the worldly virtues, the cardi-
nal virtue Justice” (op. cit., p. 330). The Protestant theologian Emil Brunner comes
to the same conclusion: “The connection between justice and love was not made
clear by the Reformers (Justice and the Social Order, p. 263) ... One of the most
disastrous obscurities in the doctrine of the law of nature is that concerning the re-
lationship between justice and love, ius naturale and lex naturae” (op. cit., p.
266); cf. also U. Schaefer, The Imperishable Dominion, p. 180ff.; Desinformation
als Methode, ch. 3, I.
314  H. Küng, A Global Ethic, p. 73.
315  Suheil Bushrui, Retrieving Our Spiritual Heritage, p. 37.
316 Matt. 7:12; Luke 6:31.
317 cf. also H. T. D. Rost, The Golden Rule. A Universal Ethic, Oxford 1986.
318 The Analects 15:23.

essence of morality.”319 The Buddhist Scripture contains the com-
mandment: “A state which is not pleasant or enjoyable for me will
also not be for him; and how can I impose on another a state
which is not pleasant or enjoyable for me?”320 In the oldest Zoro-
astrian writings, the Ga-tha-s, one finds the verse: “That which is
good for all and any one, for whomsoever: that is good for me ...
What I hold good for self, I should for all.”321 The Book of Tobias
in the Old Testament includes the maxim: “What thou dost not
wish for thyself, do not do to others,”322 and in the Talmud we
find rabbi Hillel’s statement: “Do not to others what you would
not want them to do you.”323
In the Qur’a-n we read: “Woe to the stinters who, when they
measure against the people, take full measure but, when they
measure for them or weigh for them, do skimp.”324 Islamic inter-
preters have not restricted the meaning of this verse to trade but
have regarded it as a general verdict on those who judge them-
selves by a different measure than that which they apply to oth-
ers.325 The same is stated in the Gospel: “With what measure ye
mete, it shall be measured to you again.”326 According to Islamic
traditions, man may not expect compassion from God if he has re-
fused it to his neighbour.327 Al-Bukha-ri- has recorded a h.adi-th in
which the Prophet said: “None of you has faith unless he loves for
his brother what he loves for himself.”328

319 XIII, 114, 8.
320 Sanyutta Nikaya V, 353.35-342.2.
321 8th Ga-tha-, Yasna 43:1.
322 4:15.
323 Shabbat 31a.
324 83:1-3.
325 cf. ‘Ali- Abdullah Yusuf, The Meaning of the Glorious Qur’a-n, vol. II, p. 1703.
326 Matt. 7:2.
327 The same concept is expressed in the Lord’s Prayer: “And forgive us our tres-
passes, as we forgive those who trespass against us” (Matt. 6:12; cf. also 14-15).
328 Quoted in Maulana Muhammad ‘Ali-, A Manual of H. adi-th, ch. II, no. 9.


The Golden Rule is also evident in many places in the revela-
tion of Baha-’u’lla-h, as, for instance, in The Hidden Words:
O Son of Spirit! Know thou of a truth: He that biddeth men be
just and himself committeth iniquity is not of Me, even though
he bear My name329... O Son of Being! Ascribe not to any soul
that which thou wouldst not have ascribed to thee.330
In the Kalima-t-i-Firdawsiyyih is found the statement:
Choose thou for thy neighbour that which thou  choosest for
thyself;331
and in the Kita-b-i-I-qa-n we read:
He332 should not wish for others that which he doth not wish
for himself, nor promise that which he doth not fulfil.333
The Su-ratu’l-Mulu-k contains the verse:
Lay not on any soul a load which ye would not wish to be laid
upon you, and desire not for any one the things ye would not
desire for yourselves.334
The Book of Laws, the Kita-b-i-Aqdas, also includes the admon-
ishment:

329 Arabic 28.
330 Arabic 29.
331 Tablets 6:20.
332 i. e., the believer.
333 215.
334 Gleanings 66:8.

Wish not for others what ye wish not for yourselves;335
the members of the House of Justice are obliged
to have regard for the interests of the servants of God, for His
sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that
which is meet and seemly.336
11. The prophetic religions of the Asiatic-Semitic tradition
have further common features: belief in only one God;337 the
concept of a Covenant between God and man; the dependence
of salvation upon belief in the Messenger;338 daily obligatory
prayer in worship of the divine Majesty; the obligation to read
daily from the Scripture; fasting; the institution of a shared
meal, and a doctrine of grace.
12. The most fundamental feature common to all religions is
mysticism, the highest aim of which is the uniting of the soul with
the eternal God. Jewish Cabbalism and Chassidism, and Arab-
Persian Muslim S. ufism bear remarkable similarities to Christian
mysticism. This in turn is similar to forms of mysticism in the ma-

335 Kita-b-i-Aqdas 148.
336 Ibid. 30.
337 This is, however, diluted in Christianity by the dogma of the Trinity, which in its
traditional interpretation is unacceptable to Jews, Muslims and Baha-’i-s. Hans
Küng has distanced himself from this traditional interpretation in which Christian
theologians have always seen the Proprium of Christianity when postulating the
uniqueness and superiority of the Christian religion. He has initiated a new herme-
neutics acceptable to the representatives of strict monotheism (cf. Küng,
Christianity and the World Religions, pp. 112-127).
338 [Heilsnotwendigkeit des Glaubens]; cf. Marc 16:16; John 3:17-18; Luke 12:8;
Matt. 10:32; Qur’a-n 3:132,172; 57:7; 48:29. In Zoroastrianism, cf. The Dinkard,
vol. I, p. 55; vol. II, p. 63; in the Writings of the Ba-b, Selections 1:4:4; in the Writ-
ings of Baha-’u’lla-h, Kita-b-i-Aqdas 1; Tablets 5:4, 11-12; Lawh.-i-Ah.mad, in: Baha-
’i- Prayers, p. 209; Lawh.-i-Zi-ya-rih, in: Prayers and Meditations 180:3.


jor religions of the East: Brahmanism, Hinduism and Bud-
dhism.339
XI.
The New Paradigm: Progressive Revelation
It has been demonstrated in the above that religious history
provides impressive evidence for the unity of religions. This
unity is not, however, subject to scientific proof. Nor can it be:
rational, empirical knowledge can never gain access to the
fundamental essence of this unity. Even if one is prepared to
admit that despite all the divergencies a unifying principle is
evident behind the multitude of forms and their numerous
analogies (or at least to accept that many factors speak for such
a view) one cannot, nevertheless deduce from these phenomena
the reason why the same reality is manifested in such great
diversity. The conviction of Symmachus340 that there must be
more than one road to so great a mystery does not take us very
far. The metaphysical mystery that could explain the unity for
which so much phenomenological evidence exists cannot be
unravelled through academic research. In the holy writings of
the religions of the past there are clues and hints which can be
drawn upon in the search for an explanation.
For the first time, though, a conclusive, rationally acceptable,
comprehensive explanation is to be found in the Scripture of the
Ba-b and of Baha-’u’lla-h. God’s Revelation in the course of human
history is the central, dominant theme. It provides the answer to
the question why there is not only one religion. Hence, it is appro-
priate at this juncture to expatiate briefly upon this fundamental

339 cf. Heiler, “The History of Religions as a Preparation,” p. 154; Heiler, Die Bedeu-
tung der Mystik für die Weltreligionen, München 1919.
340 See p. 89.

doctrine of progressive revelation:


1. The Hidden God
The Baha-’i- Faith is a monotheistic religion. God is one single
God (“He is, and hath from everlasting been, one and alone,...
ever-abiding, unchangeable, and self-subsisting,”341) absolutely
transcendent. God in his essence is indescribable.342 His being
transcends the limitations of numbers,343 and is an impenetrable
mystery that cannot be fathomed by the most pious of mystics
or the most profound of philosophers, nor even by the prophets
and messengers of God.344 God is exalted beyond the grasp of
the minds of men,345 exalted beyond all the comparisons346 and
all the descriptions.347 Every attempt to fathom his essence
“hath ended in complete bewilderment348... The way is barred,
and all seeking rejected349... The way is barred and to seek is
impiety.”350 Baha-’u’lla-h proclaims the absolute transcendence
of God351:
The conceptions of the devoutest of mystics, the attainments of
the most accomplished amongst men, the highest praise which
human tongue or pen can render are all the product of man’s fi-
nite mind and are conditioned by its limitations. Ten thousand
Prophets, each a Moses, are thunderstruck upon the Sinai of
their search at His forbidding voice, ‘Thou shalt never behold

341 Gleanings 94:1.
342 On “Negative and Manifestation Theology,” see Jack McLean, “Prolegomena to a
Baha-’i- Theology,” pp. 53ff.
343 Gleanings 84:3.
344 Gleanings 26:3; Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 104-106 (pp. 98-100).
345 Gleanings 26:1; Tablets 8:26.
346 Gleanings 160:1.
347 Gleanings 94:3.
348 Gleanings 26:3.
349 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 150 (p. 141).
350 The Seven Valleys 43.
351  In the physical realm of ha-hu-t (see footnote 368).

Me!;’ whilst a myriad Messengers, each as great as Jesus, stand
dismayed upon their heavenly thrones by the interdiction,
‘Mine Essence thou shalt never apprehend!’ From time imme-
morial He hath been veiled in the ineffable sanctity of His ex-
alted Self, and will everlastingly continue to be wrapt in the
impenetrable mystery of His unknowable Essence. Every at-
tempt to attain to an understanding of His inaccessible Reality
hath ended in complete bewilderment, and every effort to ap-
proach His exalted Self and envisage His Essence hath resulted
in hopelessness and failure.352
Hence, God is deus absconditus, a hidden God353—the “most hid-
den of the hidden.” Yet he is also deus revelatus, “the most mani-
fest of the manifest”354: He communicates with humanity through
His Revelation in history. The Creator of the universe did not cre-
ate man and thereafter abandon him to himself. He reveals himself
to mankind, speaking through His prophets and messengers. He
has entered an eternal, timeless Covenant with humanity. To those
who turn to Him and partake of this Covenant he promises salva-
tion: that is on the one hand the blessing of eternal life; and on the
other guidance for life on earth.
2. The Self-Revealing God
Baha-’u’lla-h confirms the Islamic belief whereby God has sent
prophets to all peoples in the past; has revealed himself through

352 Gleanings 26:3; cf. also Gleanings 148.
353 Isaiah 45:15; Tablets 8:31. Jack McLean refers to the “strong apophatic tradition”
in early Christianity (“Prolegomena,” p. 54, footnote 56). Also Thomas Aquinas
stated Quid est deus, nescimus (De pot. q 7a 2 ad 4). Buddha’s silence about God,
interpreted as agnosticism or atheism by Western scholars, should be seen in this
context (on this subject see: Raimondo Panikkar, The Silence of God. The Answer
of the Buddha, New York 1989).
354 Prayers and Meditations 155; Qur’a-n 57:3.


them; disclosed His Will and guided them to the Straight
Path355:
Unto the cities of all nations He hath sent His Messengers,
Whom He hath commissioned to announce unto men tidings of
the Paradise of His good pleasure, and to draw them nigh unto
the Haven of abiding security, the Seat of eternal holiness and
transcendent glory.356
It is evident from the Scripture of Baha-’u’lla-h that there have
also been messengers passed down to us,357 who have not been
mentioned in the Scriptures and that divine revelation took
place even before Adam.358 The purpose of revelation, the mis-
sion of the prophets, always has remained the same: “to sum-
mon mankind to the one true God,“359 “guiding mankind to the
straight Path of Truth” and “to educate all men, that they may,
at the hour of death, ascend, in the utmost purity and sanctity
and with absolute detachment, to the throne of the Most
High.”360
3. The Nature of the Manifestations361
The founders of all major world religions have played an out-
standing role in the belief and in the life of the religious com-
munity, as well as in the respective theology. The nature of

355 See footnote 11 of this same essay.
356 Gleanings 76:1; see also Tablets 11:2.
357 Gleanings 87:6.
358 Gleanings 87:1.
359 Gleanings 98:6.
360 Gleanings 81.
361 For discussion of this term cf. Juan Ricardo Cole, “The Concept of Manifestation
in the Baha-’i- Writings,” in: Baha-’i- Studies, no. 9.

these historical figures, the mediators of the Great Being362 to
mankind, the prophets and announcers of God’s will, has been
interpreted in different ways. One interpretation presents them
as human beings selected to carry out a divine mission; another
presents them as incarnations of the Godhead. Christian theol-
ogy in its doctrine of the Trinity363 has identified the salvation
figure of the founder—who appeared in human form—with
God Himself. Both Judaism364 and Islam,365 however, have re-
jected the Christian doctrines of incarnation and the Trinity,
viewing them as a violation of the principle of God’s absolute
transcendence and as degeneration into polytheism. By way of
contrast, their emphasis has been placed on the human status of
the prophets.366 Thus the man-God dichotomy is in constant
evidence.
The Scripture of the Ba-b and of Baha-’u’lla-h convey a much
more differentiated view of the nature of God’s messengers. The
revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h is based on a trichotomy, a model of
three worlds: the  eternally  inaccessible world of  God (‘a-lamu’l-h.
aqq), which is “exalted beyond the grasp of the minds of men”,367
is contrasted with the world of creation (‘a-lamu’l-khalq). Then
there is an intermediate world, the world of the revelation of the
divine command (‘a-lamu’l-amr), to which belong the salvation
figures—the Prophets and Messengers of God.368 In place of the

362  Tablets 11:3; 11:6; 11:8 etc.
363 On this subject see Louis Henuzet, “Formation du dogme de la Trinité,” in: La
Pensée Baha-’i-e 120 (Automne 1993), p. 6ff.
364 cf. Hans-Joachim Schoeps, Jüdisch-christliches Religionsgespräch, p. 31ff.; Her-
mann Cohen, Religion of Reason out of the Sources of Judaism, pp. 35ff., 403,
418.
365 cf. Qur’a-n 2:110; 3:52; 5:76-81; 19:91-94; 112.
366 “Say: In sooth I am only a man like you” (Qur’a-n 18:110).
367 Gleanings 26:1,3; 78:2; 94:3; 160:1; Tablets 8:26.
368 Another conceptual scheme of the metaphysical realms, Baha-’u’lla-h has delineated
in his mystical Tablet Lawh.-i-Kullu’t.-T. a‘a-m (The Tablet of All Food), a commen-
tary interpreting Qur’a-n 3:87 in terms of theosophical S. ufism, according to which


Qur’a-nic terms nabi- and rasu-l, Baha-’u’lla-h frequently uses the
term al-maz.haru’l-ila-hi- (Manifestation of God) and thus ex-
presses the concept that these beings are sui generis, exalted above

there are five stages in the hierarchy of metaphysical being: ha-hu-t, la-hu-t, jabaru-t,
malaku-t and na-su-t. The  Arabic text of this Tablet has been published by  ‘Abdu’l-
H. ami-d Ishra-q Kha-vari- (ed.) in Ma-’iday-i-a-sma-ni-, vol. 4, pp. 265-76, Teheran
1971. An annotated preliminary translation into English has been provided and
published by Stephen N. Lambden (“A Tablet of Mi-rza- H. usayn ‘Ali- Baha-’u’lla-h
of the early Ira-q Period: The Tablet of All Food,” in: Baha-’i- Studies Bulletin 3.1,
June 1984, pp. 4-67). On the historical background of this Tablet see Adib Taher-
zadeh, The Revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h, vol. 1, pp. 55-60. The Tablet has been dis-
cussed also by Moojan Momen in his contribution  “Relativism: A  Basis for Baha-
’i- Metaphysics,” in: Moojan Momen (ed.), Studies in the Ba-bi- & Baha-’i- Religions,
vol. 5, p. 189ff. and by Jack McLean in his article “Prolegomena to a Baha-’i- The-
ology,” p. 53ff.
According to this classification ha-hu-t is the inaccessible realm of the Divine
Essence (Lambden, p. 40). In this  realm God is  known as the  Hidden  Mystery
(cf. S.ala-t-i-Kabi-r, Prayers and Meditations 183:20). La-hu-t is the realm of the first
emanation from God in which the divine names and attributes, potential and con-
cealed in the realm of ha-hu-t achieve existence (Momen, op. cit., pp. 190/191).
This realm has been named the Heavenly Court (The Seven Valleys 49, the All-
Glorious Horizon (Prayers and Meditations 183:20), the Tongue of Grandeur
(Prayers and Meditations 183:20), the most exalted Pen (Tablets 8:52), the Primal
Will (Ba-b, Selections 4:10:6), the Supreme, Divine Intelligence (The Seven Valleys
65), the lógos (Momen, ibid.). Jabaru-t is the realm of Divine Decrees (Lambden,
p. 40), the realm of the revealed God acting within creation (Momen, ibid.).
Malaku-t is the sphere of the angels (Qur’a-n 6:75; 8:185), the realm of those whom
neither business nor commerce distract ... from the remembrance of God (Qur’a-n
24:37), in the Baha-’i- Scripture called the Concourse on High (Prayers and Medita-
tions 183:20; Tablets 4:13; 7:8; 8:46; Gleanings 129:3; 141:3; ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Se-
lections 8:1; 19:13), the All-Glorious (abha-) Paradise (Ba-b, Selections 2:34:1; The
Hidden Words, Persian 18, 19; ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 8:2; 8:5; 17:6; 42:3; 193:12).
Na-su-t is the physical world, which is subdivided into the mineral, vegetable, and
animal kingdoms. As Momen points out (p. 193ff.) the Manifestations of God exist
at all of these various levels except ha-hu-t, whereas man exists on the interface be-
tween the realms of na-su-t and malaku-t: “If he chooseth he can live entirely in the
world of na-su-t,” entirely centred “on material possessions and worldly ambition.
But if he chooseth, he can detach himself from the physical world and live in the
realm of malaku-t” (op. cit., p. 194). As  far  as I  understand, the  classification of
ha-hu-t and la-hu-t corresponds with ‘a-lamu’l-h.aqq; na-su-t with ‘a-lamu’l-khalq and
jabaru-t and malaku-t with ‘a-lamu’l-amr.

normal human existence. In the realm of creation they have an on-
tological station above man.
To them a twofold nature has been assigned: their physical na-
ture pertains to the world of matter,369 and is subject to poverty
and afflictions, to hunger, and the ills and chances of this world.370
The Qur’a-n alludes to their human station when reporting the ob-
jection: “And they say: ‘What sort of apostle is this? He eateth
food and walketh in the streets!’”371 and refers to it when saying:
“I am but a man like you.”372 “Am I more than a man, an apos-
tle?”373 Baha-’u’lla-h answered in a similar way when being
charged with having laid claim to be God: “This is a gross cal-
umny. I am but a servant of God Who hath believed in Him and
His signs and in His Prophets and in His angels.”374 On this hu-
man level the Manifestations are “the most distinguished and the
most excellent... of all men.”375 They are “Essences of Detach-
ment.”376 Each is a “pure and stainless Soul,”377 “exalted above
the comprehension of men;”378 the “Day Star of Truth;”379 the
“Day Star of Justice;”380 The “Sun of majesty and power.”381
The spiritual station of the Manifestation is “born of the sub-
stance of God Himself” (ila-hi-).382 His voice is the Voice of God
Himself.383 His knowledge is not acquired,384 not gained by re-

372 18:110.
369 Gleanings 27:4.
370 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 80 (p. 72).
371 25:7; 17:94; 18:110.
373 17:94.
374 Gleanings 113:18.
375 Kita-b-i--qa-n 109 (p. 103).
I
376 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 89 (p. 82).
377 Gleanings 27:4.
378 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 32 (p. 35).
379 Gleanings 26:3; 27:5; 38; 149.
380 Gleanings 46:2; 162:2.
381 Gleanings 57:2.
382 Gleanings 27:4.
383 Gleanings 27:4.


flection385 or by empiricism. It is not the outcome of effort and
study.386 Rather it is a divine knowledge, the “knowledge of be-
ing,”387 like “the cognizance and consciousness that man has of
himself.”388 The Manifestations of God “are aware of the reality
of the mysteries of being;” of “the reality of things;”389 of the
needs and exigencies of the human world. They are like a “Divine
and Infallible Physician”390 who “has His finger on the pulse of
mankind,” who “perceiveth the disease and prescribeth, in His un-
erring wisdom, the remedy.”391 They all are sinless (ma‘s.u-m),
made immune from error, guarded against sin.392 They are infalli-
ble in their judgement and in their decree. Thus, the Manifestation
is “a Light which is not followed by darkness and a Truth not
overtaken by error.”393
According to the Kita-b-i-I-qa-n, the Manifestations of God are
“sanctified Mirrors”394 reflecting the light of God. They are “the
focal points where the signs, tokens and perfections of that sacred,
pre-existent Reality appear in their splendour”395:
They are even as a looking-glass, burnished and without stain,
which gathereth streams of light out of that Sun, and then scat-
tereth the glory over the rest of creation. In that polished sur-
face, the Sun with all Its majesty standeth clearly revealed.
Thus, should the mirrored Sun proclaim, ‘I am the Sun!’ this is

384 Some Answered Questions 40:6.
385 Some Answered Questions 40:3.
386 Some Answered Questions 40:5.
387 ‘ilmu’l-wuju-d (Some Answered Questions 40:4, 6).
388 Some Answered Questions 40:4.
389 Some Answered Questions 40:7; 58:4.
390 Gleanings 106:2; 34:6; 120:3. See also footnote 479.
391 Gleanings 106:1.
392 Tablets 8:17.
393 Tablets 8:17.
394 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 106 (p. 99).
395 ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 21:12.

but the truth; and should It cry, ‘I am not the Sun!’ this is the
truth as well. And although the Day-Star, with all Its glory, Its
beauty, Its perfections, be clearly visible in that mirror without
stain, still It hath not come down from Its own lofty station in
the realms above, It hath not made Its way into the mirror;
rather doth It continue to abide, as It will forever, in the super-
nal heights of Its own holiness.396
Thus it is clear that the divine messenger is a “Manifestation” of
God and not his incarnation. The concept of incarnation (h.ulu-l)
has been decidedly rejected by Baha-’u’lla-h:
Know thou of a certainty that the Unseen can in no wise incar-
nate His Essence and reveal it to men397... God the unknow-
able Essence, the divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond
every human attribute, such as corporeal existence, ascent and
descent, egress and regress.398
The aspects of God that man is capable of recognizing are only
those which are reflected in the Manifestation, who discloses some
but not all dimensions of that Ultimate Reality.399 This opens up a
new interpretation for those verses in the Gospel of John, which
were formerly interpreted only in the sense of a hypostatic union,
such as “He that hath seen me hath seen the Father,”400 and “I and

396 op. cit.
397 Gleanings 20.
398 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 104 (p. 98).
399 “I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now” (John
16:12); “All that I have revealed unto thee with the tongue of power, and have
written for thee with the pen of might, hath been in accordance with thy capacity
and understanding, not with My state and the melody of My voice” (The Hidden
Words, Arabic 67).
400 14:9.


my Father are one.”401 In relation to God, the Manifestations ap-
pear as utter nothingness, but in relation to the world of creation
(na-su-t) they are endowed with all the attributes of God. In a prayer
revealed by Baha-’u’lla-h he testifies:
When I contemplate, o my God, the relationship that bindeth
me to Thee, I am moved to proclaim to all created things ‘ver-
ily I am God!;’ and when I consider my own self, lo, I find it
coarser than clay!402
4. God’s Representatives on Earth
Proceeding from this, it is not difficult to comprehend other
statements concerning the nature and mission of the Manifesta-
tions. Since the door of the knowledge of God “hath ever been
and will continue forever to be, closed in the face of men,”403
knowledge of God is attainable only through knowledge of the
Manifestations. Each of them has been the “representative and
mouthpiece of God;”404 they all have been “Exponents on earth
of him who is the central Orb of the universe.”405 Baha-’u’lla-h
therefore calls them “the Treasuries of Divine knowledge,” and
“the Repositories of celestial wisdom” and declares that
through them a grace that is infinite406 is conveyed to mankind.
In provocative and powerful language he has proclaimed the
station of the Manifestations as representatives of God:

401 10:30.
402 Quoted from Shoghi Effendi, World Order, p. 113.
403 Gleanings 21.
404 Gleanings 28:2.
405 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 106 (p. 99)
406 Gleanings 19:3; see also 27:5.

Whoso recognizeth them hath recognized God. Whoso heark-
eneth to their call, hath hearkened to the Voice of God, and
whoso testifieth to the truth of their Revelation, hath testified to
the truth of God Himself. Whoso turneth away from them, hath
turned away from God, and whoso disbelieveth in them, hath
disbelieved in God. Every one of them is the Way of God that
connecteth this world with the realms above, and the Standard
of His Truth unto every one in the kingdoms of earth and
heaven.407
Thus, knowledge of God, the “beginning of all things”408 and “the
source of all learning,”409 can be attained only through “these
sanctified Mirrors,” “the Treasures of celestial wisdom.”410
Proof of the truth is made evident by the Person of the Manifes-
tation;411 by the divinely-revealed verses;412 and by the power of
the Manifestation to change people and to make all things new413:
“Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.”414 Hence the
statement in the Lawh.-i-Ah.mad:
O people, if ye deny these verses, by what proof have ye be-
lieved in God? Produce it, O assemblage of false ones.415
5. Authority and Sovereignty

407 Gleanings 21.
408 Gleanings 2.
409 Tablets 10:19.
410 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 106 (pp. 99f.).
411 Gleanings 20; 52:2; Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 230 (pp. 208f.).
412 Gleanings 121:9.
413 Tablets 7:6; 13:10; Gleanings 92:1; 99; 147:2; Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 48-50 (pp. 46f.).
414 John 18:37.
415 Baha-’i- Prayers, p. 211.


As God’s representatives on earth, the Manifestations embody
the authority and sovereignty of God: They are “led by the light
of unfailing guidance and invested with supreme sover-
eignty.”416 What they announce is the Will and Command of
God. Humanitarian in their content and purpose, intended as
they are to promote the well-being of mankind, the teachings
and standards of the Manifestations claim to possess unchange-
able, final authority. They are thus absolute, unfathomable for
reason, above criticism, unquestionable, authoritative, infalli-
ble. Baha-’u’lla-h has formulated the sovereignty of the Manifes-
tations in the doctrine of the “Most Great Infallibility,”417 cul-
minating in the statement: “He doeth whatsoever He willeth,
and ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth.”418 The sovereignty of
God, like that of the Manifestations, is also demonstrated in
that he remains unconstrained in his bidding.419 The dogma set
out in Jewish and in Islamic theology that God by revealing the
Torah or the Qur’a-n has renounced once and for all his power
of legislation thus appears blasphemous.420
6. The Minor Prophets
Not all prophets are Manifestations. ‘Abdu’l-Baha- differenti-
ates between the independent421 and the dependent ones. The
former are the  founders such as  Abraham,  Moses, Christ,
Muh.ammad, Zarathustra, Buddha, the Ba-b and Baha-’u’lla-h.

416 Gleanings 27:4; Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 102 (p. 97).
417 al ‘is.matu’l-kubra-, Kita-b-i-Aqdas 47; Tablets 8:17-19.
418 Kita-b-i-Aqdas 7, 47, 131, 157, 161-162; Tablets 5:13; 6:56; 7:40; 8:12; 8:17; 8:19;
12:12; 12:17; 14:14; 17:10; Gleanings 68:5; 114:18; 129:12.
419 S.ala-t al-Kabi-r, in:7 Prayers and Meditations 183:10.
420 cf. Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 147-149 (pp. 135-141) in association with Qur’a-n 5:68; 48:10; see
also Shoghi Effendi, World Order, p. 58.
421 nabi-y-bi-istiqla-l.

They are “the lawgivers and the founders of a new cycle;422
they establish a new religion and make new creatures of men,
... change the general morals, ... renew the cycle and the
Law.”423 Their appearance is “like the season of spring, which
arrays all earthly beings in a new garment, and gives them new
life.”424
The dependent prophets425 appear in the shadow of a Manifes-
tation. They are of a different nature, as are the so-called minor
prophets of Judaism: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, etc. They
are “followers and promoters and profit by the light of Guidance
of a universal Prophet.”426 They are men who have been called
upon to fulfil a divine mission. ‘Abdu’l-Baha- describes this differ-
ent nature in allegorical form: whereas the light of the Manifesta-
tions can be compared with that of the sun, the light of the de-
pendent prophets is like that of the “moon, which is not luminous
in itself, but receives its light from the sun.”427 Baha-’u’lla-h testi-
fies that the station which the true believer can attain in his dis-
pensation is the same as the one ordained for such prophets of the
House of Israel, as they are not regarded as Manifestations “en-
dowed with constancy.”428
7. The Unity of the Manifestations
A central doctrine of the Baha-’i- Faith is Baha-’u’lla-h’s categori-
cal statement that there is no essential distinction among the in-
dividual Manifestations:

422 Some Answered Questions 43:3.
423 Some Answered Questions 43:5.
424 op. cit. 43:5.
425 nabi-y ghayr mustaqill; for discussion of these terms cf. Nicola Towfigh, Schöp-
fung und Offenbarung, p. 171.
426 Some Answered Questions 43:4.
427 Ibid.
428 World Order, p. 111.


The essence of all the Prophets of God is one and the same.
Their unity is absolute. God, the Creator, sayeth: There is no
distinction whatsoever among the Bearers of My Message.
They all have but one purpose; their secret is the same se-
cret.429
Their messages are “fundamentally the same.”430 They differ
only in the “intensity of their revelation” and “in the compara-
tive potency of their Light.”431 Therefore “to prefer one in hon-
our to another, to exalt certain ones above the rest”432 is to di-
verge from this truth. They are all the reflection of His Will and
Purpose:
Whoso maketh the slightest possible difference between their
persons, their words, their messages, their acts and manners,
hath indeed disbelieved in God, hath repudiated His signs, and
betrayed the Cause of His Messengers.433
Accordingly, to reject one of the Manifestations means to reject
them all:
He who turns away from this Beauty hath also turned away
from the Messengers of the past and showeth pride towards
God from all eternity to all eternity.434
From this unity of the messengers the mystic unity of the re-
vealed religions can be deduced:

429 Gleanings 34:3.
430 Ibid.
431 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 110 (p. 104); Gleanings 34:4; Qur’a-n 2:254.
432 Gleanings 34:3; 24; Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 161 (p. 152); Qur’a-n 2:285.
433 Gleanings 24.
434 Lawh.-i-Ah.mad, in: Baha-’i- Prayers, p. 212.

These principles and laws, these firmly established and mighty
systems, have proceeded from One Source, and are the rays of
one Light. That they differ one from another is to be attributed
to the varying requirements of the ages in which they were
promulgated.435
8. The Relativity of Divine Revelation
There are, of course, differences in the historical missions of
the prophets. Each was the bearer of a specific message.436
Each was faced with a different set of conditions on earth
which formed the context for the changes and new laws which
he revealed. Here again the moon is used as an  allegory: Baha-
’u’lla-h compares revelation with the light of the moon
that sheddeth its radiance upon the earth. Though every time it
appeareth, it revealeth a fresh measure of its brightness, yet its
inherent splendour can never diminish, nor can its light suffer
extinction.437
The variation in the intensity of its light is “not inherent in the
light itself,” but should rather “be attributed to the varying re-
ceptivity of an ever-changing world.”438 This is the meaning of
the Qur’a-nic verse: “Some of the apostles we have endowed
more highly than others.”439
Thus, we are presented here with a concept of decisive signifi-
cance: the dependent and relative nature of revelation.440 As

435 Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 18 (p. 13).
436 Gleanings 31; 34:4.
437 Gleanings 34:4.
438 Gleanings 34:5.
439 Qur’a-n 2:254.
440 On the relativity of religious truth see pp. 60, 111, 137ff., 154; cf. Moojan Momen,
“Relativism: A Basis for Baha-’i- Metaphysics,” in: Moojan Momen (ed.), Studies


God’s means of educating mankind, revelation is related to the ca-
pacity of the people to whom it is directed. This capacity differs
according to the spiritual, cultural and social level of development
of those people. This theme appears as a leitmotiv throughout the
Scripture of Baha-’u’lla-h. In The Hidden Words we read, for in-
stance:
All that I have revealed unto thee with the tongue of power,
and have written for thee with the pen of might, hath been in
accordance with thy capacity and understanding, not with My
state and the melody of My voice.441
And elsewhere he states:
Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light of Di-
vine Revelation hath been vouchsafed unto men in direct pro-
portion to their spiritual capacity.442
Baha-’u’lla-h explains the varying extent of the revelations by
means of an analogy with the light of the sun. He points out
how feeble the sun’s radiance is at sunrise, how its power and
warmth gradually increase until it reaches its zenith, and how
all created things have the ability to adapt to the increasing po-
tency of its light:
Were it, all of a sudden, to manifest the energies latent within
it, it would, no doubt, cause injury to all created things... If the
Sun of Truth were all of a sudden to reveal at the earliest stages
of its manifestation, the full measure of the potencies which the

in the Ba-bi- and Baha-’i- Religions, vol. 5, p. 185.
441 Arabic 67.
442 Gleanings 38; cf. 89:2-4; Tablets 9:11.

providence of the Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of
human understanding would waste away and be consumed; for
men’s hearts would neither sustain the intensity of its revela-
tion, nor be able to mirror forth the radiance of its light.443
The idea of revelation as a progressively unfolding process is also
conveyed in another metaphor:
Words are revealed according to capacity so that the beginners
may progress. The milk must be given according to measure so
that the babe of the world may enter into the Realm of Gran-
deur and be established in the Court of Unity.444
This idea is also to be found in the Gospel. Christ did not reveal
everything, but rather only that which accorded with the capacity
of the people around him:
I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear
them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of Truth, is come, he
will guide you into all truth.445
God’s revelation in the course of history is a continual, cycli-
cally recurring phenomenon; it is a process of dialogue in
which mankind is involved. The Word of God resembles a
seed.446 It is like “a sapling, whose roots have been implanted

443 Gleanings 38.
444 Lawh.-i-Ittih.a-d, cf. A. Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h, vol. 4, p. 192.
445 John 16:12-13. Baha-’u’lla-h testifies that the Spirit of Truth, which has been inter-
preted in Christian theology as the events of Pentecost (Acts 2ff.), is none other
than himself: “Verily, He Who is the Spirit of Truth is come to guide you unto all
truth... This is the Word which the Son concealed, when to those around Him He
said: ‘Ye cannot bear it now” (Tablets 2:12, 9; cf. Tablet to Pope Pius IX, in: The
Proclamation of Baha-’u’lla-h, p. 84 and also Gleanings 116:1).
446 cf. Matt. 13:24, 38; Mark 4:26; Luke 8:11.


in the hearts of men.”447 The sapling grows, and growth means
to assimilate, to take in external substances. The Word of God
becomes the foundation of a new way of thinking; it enters into
human thought processes which, absorbing diverse currents of
thought, lead to the establishment of new constructs of ideas.
Since human beings can only ever “know in part,”448 it is inevi-
table that the homogeneous and the heterogeneous, the true and
the false are assimilated until at the time of the harvest,449 the
wheat is separated from the chaff. The new Manifestation—the
new Book of God—is then “the unerring Balance established
amongst men” on which all “are weighed;”450 through which
“truth shall be distinguished from error”451 and “judged be-
tween truth and falsehood.”452 All the True, the Good and the
Beautiful (Plato) “he hath stored away in the vessels of justice,”
and all that is false has been “cast into fire.”453
The revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h has demonstrated this in all clar-
ity. Many of his works were written in response to questions asked
of him by theologians454 who desired to know his verdict concern-
ing controversial issues. In each case Baha-’u’lla-h “distinguished
truth from error.” Hence, in his mystical work The Seven Val-
leys,455 he repudiated the antinomist or pantheistic excesses of the
S. ufi mystics. At the same time he confirmed many fundamental
ideas of the mystic teachings emanating from Islam, in particular
Fari-du’d-Di-n ‘Attar’s image of the “seven valleys” through which

447 Tablets 7:33.
448 cf. I Cor. 13:9.
449 Matt. 13:30, 39.
450 Kita-b-i-Aqdas 99, 183.
451 Lawh.-i-Ah.mad, in: Baha-’i- Prayers, p. 210.
452 Tablets 14:12.
453 Tablet to Pope Pius IX, in The Proclamation of Baha-’u’lla-h, p. 86.
:
454 For instance, the Kita-b-i-I-qa-n, The Seven Valleys,  Lawh. -i-Kullu’t.-T. a‘a-m, Lawh.-
i-A- yiy-i-Nu-r, Java-hiru’l-Asra-r; cf. A. Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h,
vol. 1, pp. 55 ff., 96ff., 125ff., 149ff.
455 cf. Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h, vol. 1, p. 96.

the soul progresses on its path to God. To a large extent, Baha-’-
u’lla-h adopted the same terminology,456 quoting from mystical
poetic writings457 and even from Arab proverbial wisdom.
Thus, human thought has entered into divine revelation through
the sovereign confirmation of God (“He chooseth; and none may
question His choice.”458) This shows that the entire intellectual
heritage of mankind has not been cast onto the rubbish heap of
history as a result of the new revelation. Rather, in so far as it has
been confirmed by that revelation, it has become a component of
the revealed truth. Many of the thoughts of Aristotle (who is
highly praised in the Scripture,459) that were passed on via Islamic
philosophy—such as his ethics460 and his cosmogony461—in par-
tially modified form have become elements of the new revelation.
Hence, man’s cultural mission462 does not begin completely anew
at the advent of every new revelation.
9. The Purpose of Revelation: the Education of Humanity
The purpose of divine revelation is the education of human-
ity463:

456 For  example,   the   three   stages  in  the  life of a  S. ufi:  shari-‘at  (religious  law),
t.ari-qat  (path), h.aqi-qat  (truth) or the S. ufi- concepts for the realms of  being  ha-hu-t, la--
hu-t, jabaru-t, malaku-t, na-su-t in his mystical  commentary  Lawh.-i-Kullu’t.-T. a‘a-m
(Tablet of All Food; see Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h, vol. 1,
p. 55ff.).
457 For instance, from the Mathnavi- of Jala-lu’d-Din Ru-mi- (1207–1273) and from the
poems of Shamsu’d-Din Muh.ammad Ha-fiz (1320-1390).
458 Kita-b-i-Aqdas 7.
459 Tablets 9:26; cf. also ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Promulgation, pp. 327, 348, 356.
460 ‘ilmu’l-akhla-q.
461 cf. Tablets 9:8; Gleanings 78:1; 82:10; 26:2.
462 “All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization”
(Gleanings 109:2).
463 In 1780, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing published a work entitled The Education of the
Human Race, in which he developed the idea of progressive divine revelation,
based on the teachings of Joachim de Fiore (1130-1202). He was awaiting a new


From the heaven of God’s Will, and for the purpose of enno-
bling the world of being and of elevating the minds and souls
of men, hath been sent down that which is the most effective
instrument for the education of the whole human race.464
The Manifestations are therefore often referred to in the Scrip-
ture of  Baha-’u’lla-h as “Divine Educators.”465 Claudia Gollmer
has summed up this concept fittingly in the phrase “Revelation
is education.”466 Since education is a continuous process, reve-
lation is also continuous and progressive. Baha-’u’lla-h himself
speaks of a process of “progressive revelation.”467
Known religious history began with Adam,—a Prophet accord-
ing to Islamic and Baha-’i- teachings. It ended with Muh.ammad,
who in the view of traditional religious history, is seen as the only
founder of a religion to project into the early mediaeval period.
According to Baha-’i- teachings, world history proceeds in univer-
sal cycles within which the founders of the religions have each
created an historical hiatus marked by the inauguration of a new
calendar. The universal cycle that began with Adam—the pro-
phetic cycle—ended with Muh.ammad, who was the last in this se-
ries and therefore designated himself as the “seal of the proph-
ets.”468 He announced the great upheaval at the “time of the end,
the day of  judgement,”469 the  “great news.”470 With Baha-’u’lla-h

era, in which the Torah and the Gospel, as promised in the Revelation of St. John
(14:6), would be superseded by an Everlasting Gospel, an era of reason and of
self-consummation of man, thus at the same time the fulfilment of the Christian
revelation (cf. Karl Löwith, Meaning in History, p. 208ff.).
464 Tablets 7:13; Gleanings 93:14; 126:1.
465 Gleanings 82:7.
466 Die metaphysischen und theologischen Grundlagen der Erziehungslehren in der
Baha-’i--Religion, p. 102ff.
467 Gleanings 31.
468 Qur’a-n 33:40.
469 Yaumu’l-qiya-mah, Qur’a-n 2:85; 2:113; 2:174; 2:212; 3:55; 75:1 etc.
470 an-naba’ al-‘az.i-m, Qur’a-n 78:2.

a new world era has begun, a new universal cycle in which the
“prophetic cycle”471 has been fulfilled. The “day of resurrec-
tion”472 is the advent of a new revelation.473
Religious history has taken its course in accordance with the
divine Plan for the salvation of mankind. Each revelation has been
“definitely fore-ordained”474 by God, and is “a reflection of His
Will and Purpose.”475 As long as the earth had not yet become a
communicational unity and humanity was separated by seas,
mountains and deserts, cultures developed independently of one
another and peoples knew little about each other. Sometimes reve-
lation took place in different places in the same epoch.476 As the
inhabited world came to be a single entity, revelations emerged
from a relatively small geographical area, the Middle East, at in-
tervals of about 1000 years.477
10. The Vertical and Horizontal Dimensions
According to the teachings of Baha-’u’lla-h, religion is a shaping
force, encompassing every aspect of human existence. It is the
“Straight Path” for the individual and for society. It links the
individual with his Creator and shows him the way to salvation.
It moulds this world in accordance with the Will of God as re-

471 “When God sent forth His Prophet Muh.ammad, on that day the termination of the
prophetic cycle was foreordained in the knowledge of God” (The Ba-b, Selections,
6:11:5; Gleanings 25).
472  See footnote 138.
473  This subject has been elucidated by the Ba-b in his Persian Baya-n (2:7; see Selec-
tions 3:35:1).
474 Gleanings 31.
475 Gleanings 24.
476 The Jewish prophets after Moses (circa 1250 B. C.), Zarathustra (circa 600–538
B. C.) and Buddha (circa 560–480 B. C.) were, for instance, partly contemporary.
The Hindu holy scriptures, the Vedas and the Upanishads, also came into being
around 800 B. C., and the Bhagavad Gi-ta- around the fifth century B. C.
477 The period between the Christian and Islamic revelations was approximately 600
years; that between the Islamic and the Baha-’i- revelations was 1260 years.


vealed in His Law. Society, too, is granted salvation from its
moribund structures. Divine revelation is the foundation of a
new order, integrating and stabilising society. At the same time
it is a framework providing orientation, conveying meaning,
indicating goals and the paths to their attainment, and laying a
sound basis for morality. This function of religion in the imma-
nent world is testified to in the verse:
All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization.478
In the Scripture we frequently come across the allegory of the
divine physician who, in his superior wisdom, examines the ail-
ing body of mankind, diagnoses its sickness and prescribes the
appropriate remedy.479 Thus, salvation is offered not only to the
individual grace-seeking soul but also to the collective, to the
entire human race.
The two-dimensional nature of revelation is not the result of
some complicated exegesis: it was clearly defined by Baha-’u’lla-h:
God’s purpose in sending His Prophets unto men is twofold.
The first is to liberate the children of men from the darkness of
ignorance, and guide them to the light of true understanding.

478 Gleanings 109:2.
479 Gleanings 34:6, 106:1, 120:1, 16:3. This metaphor is not new in religious history.
Buddha, too, saw himself as a physician and the whole world as a hospital; He also
spoke of prescribing the remedy and determining the dose according to the pa-
tient’s condition (quoted from Karl Eugen Neumann, Übertragungen aus dem Pali
Kanon vol. III: Sammlungen in Versen [Sutta Nipata], p. 369 [Brahmadatto
no. 444], p. 417 [Adhimutto no. 722]; cf. also Majjhima Nikaya I, 426; Wilhelm
Gundert, Der Buddhismus, p. 44).

The second is to ensure the peace and tranquillity of mankind,
and provide all the means by which they can be established.480
The horizontal dimension is the variable, so to speak. It is in
this part of the respective revelations, the purpose of which is
the shaping of a world in continuous flux, that the major differ-
ences between the religions are apparent. Social norms diverge
in accordance with the various cultural conditions. Laws con-
cerning marriage and the family; of inheritance; the stipulations
of criminal and trade law; as well as forms of worship, vary
greatly. The diversity of religions is manifested in these fea-
tures. Here, revelation reflects the wide range of historical and
cultural backgrounds. For this reason, Baha-’u’lla-h says:
Know thou that in every age and dispensation all divine ordi-
nances are changed and transformed according to the require-
ment of the time, except the law of love, which, like a fountain,
always flows and is never overtaken by change.481
The term love is used here as a pars pro toto standing for the un-
changing core of revelation.
The vertical dimension of revelation is so to speak the constant,
the “Holy of Holies,”482 the essentially unchanging heart of relig-
ion. It does not change nor alter and will never be abrogated.483 It
is “the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the
future.”484 It consists of “faith, knowledge, certitude, justice, pi-
ety, righteousness, trustworthiness, love of God, benevolence, pu-
rity, detachment, humility, meekness, patience and constancy. It

480 Gleanings 34:5.
481 Quoted in Esslemont, Baha-’u’lla-h and the New Era, p. 163.
482  Some Answered Questions 11:9.
483 Ibid.
484 Kita-b-i-Aqdas 182.


shows mercy to the poor, defends the oppressed, gives to the
wretched and uplifts the fallen.”485 These divine qualities will
never be abolished, but will be renewed in each of the different
cycles, because human virtues wane and “only the form sub-
sists.”486
11. Divine Reformation
The religion of God is one religion, but it must be renewed.487
Renewal is necessary because everything on earth is subject to
deterioration and decay. In every age people have dulled the
original light of their faith through error, misunderstanding,
doctrinal additions and power-claims. The history of religion is
the history of believers in religion. It is human history; it is the
history of sinful man. It is therefore inevitable that all religions
have been through centrifugal processes in the course of their
historical development, and that they have gradually become
encrusted and deformed, hence losing their original potency.
This is an inexorable, inherent process. Using an analogy to the
seasons, ‘Abdu’l-Baha- pointed out that all religions undergo a
cycle of growth, blossoming and harvesting, followed by de-
cline and decay.488 Human reformation is unable to re-awaken
the original, vital spirit. In this sense, the revelation of Baha-
’u’lla-h is the judgement on the previous religions, the “day of
ingathering.”489 But it is not, as ‘Abdu’l-Baha- emphasizes, a
new path to salvation: Rather it is

485 Some Answered Questions 11:9.
486 op. cit. 11:10.
487 ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 23:3.
488 Some Answered Questions 14:1-10.
489 “Verily, the day of ingathering has come, and all things have been separated from
each other. He hath stored away that which he chose in the vessels of justice, and
cast into fire that which He befitteth it” (Baha-’u’lla-h, Tablet to Pope Pius IX., with

the old path, made free of human imaginations and prejudices,
cleared of the evils of conflict and disagreements, and once
again made straight for the true seeker, that he might set foot
upon it with utter conviction and see that the Word of God is
one Word, even if its Speakers were many.490
This is the eternal, “the one and indivisible religion of God,”491
referred to in the Qur’a-n as Islam. This idea of divine reforma-
tion through progressive revelation is clearly formulated in the
Bhagavad Gi-ta-:
Whenever there is a decline of  righteousness  and  a rise of
unrighteousness, o Bha-rata, then I send forth Myself. For the
protection of the good, for the destruction of the wicked and for
the establishment of righteousness, I come into being from age
to age.492
12. The Creative Word
Religion is not a series of beliefs, a set of customs, it is the
teachings of God, teachings which constitute the very life of
mankind493... A power above and beyond the powers of nature
must needs be brought to bear, to change this black darkness
into light, and these hatreds and resentments, grudges and
spites, these endless wrangles and wars, into fellowship and
love amongst all the peoples of the earth. This power is none
other than the breathings of the Holy Spirit and the mighty in-

distinct allusion to Matt. 13:30, quoted from The Proclamation of Baha-’u’lla-h,
p. 86).
490 Quoted in “Sonne der Wahrheit,” 1947, vol. 1, p. 1.
491 Ba-b, Selections 2:24:2.
492 IV, 7 and 8.
493 ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 23:6.


flow of the Word of God.494
Seen in this way, religion is not static but dynamic. In its origin
it is the most revolutionary, the most radical of all forces.495 All
the founders of the world’s major religions have inevitably bro-
ken with past traditions; with obsolete, outworn forms and
institutions; and with a ritualistic conservatism divested of any
meaning, in order to protect the remaining substance of the re-
ligion of God and adapt this to the requirements of a new era.
This renewal has always been associated with a new outpouring
of potency, a new surge of divine power, capable of changing
and integrating people, renewing society, establishing a new
order and ultimately in the fullness of time, causing a new cul-
ture to emerge. That creative power testified to in the prologue
to the Gospel of John and inherent in the lógos is—beyond all
the doctrines, commandments, rites and customs—the true
movens of religion. Baha-’u’lla-h says of the power immanent in
the Word of God that through it every human infirmity was
banished;496 that it restores the dying vitality of men’s belief in
God;497 and that the whole of the human race can be illumined
with the light of unity498:
Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is en-
dowed with such potency as can instill new life into every hu-
man frame.499
Besides the idea of divine reformation and of the adaptation of
religion to a higher level of understanding and to a changed

494 op. cit. 23:8.
495 Radical not in its means and methods but in the original sense of the word (radix =
root), i. e., renewal from the roots.
496 Gleanings 36:3.
497 Gleanings 99.
498 Gleanings 131:3.
499 Gleanings 74.

world, the concept inherent in this new impulse is the main rea-
son for cyclically recurring, progressive revelation. Without
this renewal of the divine light “which lighteth every man”500
mankind can not survive.
Alas! the world will perish. Alas! the world will come to de-
struction, were this Accomplished One, this Exalted One, this
Supremely Awakened One of a mind to keep still and not pub-
lish the Teaching abroad!,
according to the Buddhist canon.501 And Baha-’u’lla-h says,
Were this revelation to be withdrawn, all would perish.502
13. A Paradigm Shift
This view of the operation of divine revelation opens up a new
hermeneutic dimension of religious history. It is not restricted
to the salvation figures mentioned in the Bible and in the Qur’a-
n—from Adam to Muh.ammad. The religion of Zarathustra and
the Far Eastern religions of Buddhism and Hinduism also have
had their origin in divine salvation figures and in the Word of
God (even though the founders of Hinduism are hidden in the
mists of history and the original revelation set down in the holy
Scriptures of these religions is even less reliably preserved than
the revelation as found in the Bible).503

500 John 1:9.
501 Majjhima-Nikaya XXVI (p. 145).
502 Gleanings 93:14.
503 With reference to Buddha, cf. ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Some Answered Questions 43:7ff.:
“The founder of Buddhism was a wonderful soul. He established the Oneness of
God, but later the original principles of His doctrines gradually disappeared, and
ignorant customs and ceremonials arose and increased until they finally ended in
the worship of statues and images”; cf. also Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance no.


Given the premise that prophets have been sent to all peoples
and that many of their names are unknown to us, it is not difficult
to acknowledge that the entire religious tradition of mankind has
had its ultimate origin in divine revelation. This is so inspite of the
fact that the visible phenomena are now so different from their
original forms as to render their association unrecognizable. Even
in the polytheistic pantheon there was usually a god who was
greater than all the others, the “unknown God.”504 The multitude
of other gods were originally divine attributes of this highest Be-
ing. They were personified and thence took on an identity of their
own. Among the so-called primitive religions, too, we observe
truths, moral norms and even prophecies concerning the “time of
the end,” cloaked in obscure cult practices.
Furthermore, the history of man’s salvation through God—his
Heilsgeschichte—is a continuum: it is open to the future. Baha-’-
u’lla-h has clearly rejected all claims to the finality of revelation.505
In the Su-ratu’s.-S.abr he has revealed the verse:
God hath sent down His messengers to succeed to Moses and
Jesus, and He will continue to do so till ‘the end that hath no
end;’ so that His grace may, from the heaven of Divine bounty,
be continually vouchsafed to mankind.506
It is “a process that hath had no beginning and will have no
end.”507 There will never be a religion that will not “be re-
newed in the days to come.”508 Thus, all claims to exclusivity
and finality are shown to be unfounded.

1033.
504 cf. Acts
7:23.
505 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 148 (pp. 136-139).
506 Quoted in Shoghi Effendi, World Order, p. 116.
507 The Ba-b, Selections 3:34:1.
508 Ibid. 6:9:8.

A new theological paradigm is manifested in this: The old ec-
clesiastical paradigm, formulated in the Apostle’s Creed, of the
unique drama of salvation through God’s incarnate son (who lived
among men, suffered on Calgary, rose to Heaven, redeemed the
world of its sins and reconciled God with humanity), stands in
contrast to the new one: The new paradigm depicts a divine econ-
omy of salvation, a continuous process of the education of the
human race by the prophets and messengers of God: a God who
reveals himself to mankind at historical intervals. In this model,
the unity of religions has much stronger foundations than could
ever possibly be established through the empirical and phenome-
nological investigation of religions. The principle of the absolute
unity of the Manifestations logically leads one to conclude that in
the recognized phenomenological unity of religions, a transcen-
dental unity exists, a unity emanating from the divine Plan for
man’s salvation:
These principles and laws, these firmly established and mighty
systems, have proceeded from one Source and are the rays of
one Light. That they differ one from another is to be attributed
to the varying requirements of the ages in which they were
promulgated.509
Thus the plurality of religions is the result of progressive revela-
tion. All of them originate from God, even though the influence of
their diverging historical development is conspicuous in their cur-
rent forms. The epiphanies of their founders, the divine messen-
gers, are the decisive moments in history: The Tide of Fortune.510
The unity paradigm constitutes a positive basis for the study of
religions: they are taken seriously, revered and portrayed in a sym-

509 Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 18 (p. 13).
510 “Sternstunden der Menschheit,” title of an essay by Stefan Zweig, published 1929.


sympathetic light. They are regarded in no other light except as
different stages in the eternal history and constant evolution of one
religion, divine and indivisible.511 They are viewed to be divine in
origin, identical in their aims, complementary in their functions,
continuous in their purpose, indispensable in their value for man-
kind.512 Therefore, the Baha-’i- Faith is
far from aiming at the overthrow of the spiritual foundation of
the world’s religious systems. Its avowed, unalterable purpose
is to widen their basis, to restate their fundamentals, to recon-
cile their aims, to reinvigorate their life, to demonstrate their
oneness, to restore the pristine purity of their teachings, to co-
ordinate their functions and to assist in the realization of their
highest aspirations.513
This is not mere indifference, an “Anything goes” approach
(which Küng514 rightly criticises), but the acknowledgement
that that which has developed over long historical periods and
is testified to in frequently interrupted tradition originates from
the same source: the revelation of the living God. It is the reali-
zation that the sometimes major differences, even stark contra-
dictions, in doctrine, societal order and forms of worship are
historically conditioned. Consider Christianity alone: Its basis
lies in one figure, Christ, and in one set of teachings, the Gos-
pel. Today it is not a monolithic religion, but rather exists in a
multitude of forms with incompatible doctrinal contradic-
tions.515 How much more likely then is this to be the case re-

511 Shoghi Effendi, World Order, p. 114.
512 Shoghi Effendi, op. cit., p. 58.
513 Shoghi Effendi, op. cit., p. 114.
514 Christianity and the World Religions, p. XVIII.
515 These include, for example, Catholics, Unitarians, Calvinists, the Greek Orthodox
Church, Copts, Mormons, the Salvation Army, Jehovah’s Witnesses etc.—the list
could be extended indefinitely. The traditions are so diverse and dogmatic differ-

garding revelations that have emerged at various times, among
very different peoples with extremely varied spiritual traditions
and cultural conditions and which have then undergone widely
divergent paths of historical development! Wilfred Cantwell
Smith has aptly stated:
It is not the case that all religions are the same. The historian
notes that not even one religion is the same, century after cen-
tury, from one country to another, or from village to city.516
The light of truth does not come to us as a sharply focused ray
but in a refracted and dispersed form, since “no living thing can
resist the transforming effect of time.517
When considering religions it is, of course, essential to sepa-
rate the wheat from the chaff. Hans Küng has established a
principle for so doing: “Nothing of value in the other religions
is to be denied, but neither is anything of no value to be uncriti-
cally accepted.”518 What yardstick, however, is to be used to
making such judgements? Logically, it is the latest revelation,
for it has once again cleared the “Straight Path” of historical
ballast. That we should consider other faiths from the point of
view of the dispensation of Baha-’u’lla-h is not surprising but
merely consistent. All religions have done so: all have inter-
preted past religious history and existing religious tradition in
the light of the new revelation. That some things then appear
differently, and venerated dogmas of orthodox belief are
shaken, is as inevitable as is the vexation that arises when on
the “day of ingathering” the weeds are collected and cast into

ences among the communities so entrenched that even the major churches do not
have a common Eucharist.
516 Towards a World Theology, p. 4.
517 Adolf von Harnack, Kirchenverfassung, p. 87.
518 Christianity and the World Religions, p. XVIII.


the fire.519 Moreover, examination of the widely varying tradi-
tions of other religions also helps one to develop a deeper and
more sophisticated understanding of one’s own faith.
14. The Eye of Oneness
Baha-’u’lla-h also explains why only a few comprehend  the
unity of religions and why the majority fails to recognize the
light of truth radiating from their holy Scriptures. It lies not in
the light itself, but in the eye of the beholder. Whoever looks
with the “eye of oneness”520 perceives “the light of singleness
reflected over all creation.”521 Differences in appearance de-
pend on the object on which light shines. The sun appears in a
mirror as a disc and in crystal as fire, whereas other objects
only sense the effect of the light.522 Those who direct their at-
tention only to the differences, and have constrained “the lands
of knowledge within the wall of self and passion, and clouded
them with ignorance and blindness,”523 have “strayed far from
the jewelled wisdom of the lucid Faith of the Lord of messen-
gers524... Such is the worth of the people of this age!”525 regrets
Baha-’u’lla-h. As a result of this approach “conflict hath pre-
vailed among the creatures, and a darksome dust from limited
souls hath hid the world.”526 That is the reason why there are
some who dwell upon the plane of oneness, “and some inhabit

519 cf. Matt. 13:30.
520 Baha-’u’lla-h, The Seven Valleys 33.
521 Ibid.
522 op. cit. 34
523 op. cit. 36.
524 Ibid.
525 Ibid.
526 op. cit. 39.

the realms of limitation, and some the grades of self; while oth-
ers are completely veiled.”527
‘Abdu’l-Baha-, too, attributes the fruitless interreligious strife to
the fact that people cling to superficialities and forget the simple
truth:
From the continual imitations of ancient and worn-out ways,
the world had grown dark... The fundamentals of the divine
Teachings had passed from memory; their pith and heart had
been totally forgotten, and the people were holding on to
husks.528
What is different are “the outward practices of religion”, and it is
they
that cause disputes and enmity—while the reality is always one
and the same. The reality is the truth and truth has no division.
Truth is God’s guidance. It is the light of the world. It is love.
It is mercy.529
Thus it depends on the individual whether he is able to perceive
this reality or is unmoved by the truth:
Every one who is of the truth heareth my voice,
reads the Gospel of St. John,530 and in the Sermon on the Mount
Christ says:
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.531

527 op. cit. 40.
528 ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Selections 205:1.
529 Paris Talks 39:13.
530 18:37.


Baha-’u’lla-h has also spoken of this purity of heart, the radical
openness for the truth, even if it may be far different from that
which one has imagined. It can be perceived only by those who
cleanse their hearts “from the obscuring dust of all acquired
knowledge”, purifying it to the extent that
no remnant of either love or hate may linger therein, lest that
love blindly incline him to error, or that hate repel him away
from the truth.532
According to Baha-’u’lla-h whoever is not prepared to do this is
like a beetle to which “a sweet fragrance seemeth foul,”533 or
like a person suffering from a cold who cannot partake of “the
sweet savours of holiness”534:
To the man sick of a rheum a pleasant perfume is as naught.
Wherefore, it hath been said for the guidance of the ignorant:
‘Cleanse thou the rheum from out thine head and breathe the
breath of God instead.’535
Perhaps Baha-’u’lla-h was referring to the judgement of Western
orientalists on the Qur’a-n when he revealed the following verse
in the Kita-b-i-I-qa-n:
Yea, the blind can perceive naught from the sun except its heat,
and the arid soil hath no share of the showers of mercy. ‘Mar-
vel not if in the Qur’a-n the unbeliever perceiveth naught but the

531 Matt. 5: .
532 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n 213 (p. 192).
533 The Seven Valleys 38.
534 The Hidden Words, Persian 46.
535 The Seven Valleys 38.

trace of letters, for in the sun, the blind findeth naught but
heat.’536
15. The Spirit of Fraternity
It is a logical consequence of Baha-’u’lla-h’s unity paradigm that
he emphasizes again and again a commandment—unique
among the religious Scriptures of mankind—that will purge and
purify the peoples of the world from the strife and dissension
which religious differences provoke.537 In the Kita-b-i-Aqdas we
read:
Consort with all religions with amity and concord;538
in the Lawh.-i-Dunya-:
Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friend-
liness and fellowship. Whatsoever hath led the children of men
to shun one another, and hath caused dissensions and divisions
amongst them, hath, through the revelation of these words,
been nullified and abolished.539
In the Tablet T. ara-za-t we are exhorted to consort with the fol-
lowers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship,
and all peoples are admonished to observe tolerance and right-
eousness.540 The warning about religious fanaticism—Baha-’u’lla-h
calls it “a world-devouring fire” and a “desolating afflict-

536 230 (p. 209).
537 Tablets 6:40.
538 144.
539 Tablets 7:13.
540 Tablets 4:10, 12.


ion”541—is combined with urgent appeals for cosmopolitanism
and loving affection for all peoples and nations of the world:
Consorting with people hath promoted and will continue to
promote unity and concord, which in turn are conducive to the
maintenance of order in the world and the regeneration of na-
tions.542
What is demanded here is much more than tolerance, more than
merely “putting up with” others: it is active, loving association
with people of other religions “with joy and radiance”. Baha-’-
u’lla-h says:
Blessed are such as hold fast to the cord of kindliness and ten-
der mercy and are free from animosity and hatred.543
As already mentioned, Hans Küng has acknowledged interreli-
gious dialogue as being an indispensable prerequisite for world
peace. There can be no world peace without religious peace.544
Baha-’u’lla-h’s unity paradigm and his commandment to his fol-
lowers to consort in a loving spirit with the believers of other
faiths is a much more stable basis for this indispensable dia-
logue545 than simply utilitarian motives or the acknowledge-
ment of necessity.

541 Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 19 (p. 14).
542 Tablets 4:11.
543 Ibid.
544 cf. Küng, Christianity and the World Religions, p. 443.
545 On the conditions of an interreligious dialogue see Jack McLean, “Prolegomena to
a Baha-’i- Theology,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies 5.1, p. 44ff.; Seena Fazel,
“Interreligious Dialogue and the Baha-’i- Faith—Some Preliminary Observations,”
in: Jack McLean (ed.), Revisioning the Sacred, pp. 127-152; Udo Schaefer, “Baha-’-
u’lla-h’s Unity Paradigm: A Contribution to Interfaith Dialogue on a Global Ethic,”
in: Dialogue and Universalism 6.11-12/1996, pp. 23-41.

Before the terrible religious wars in Europe, and four hun-
dred years before the revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h, Nicolaus Cusa-
nus called imploringly for this spirit of unity and love. In his
work De pace fidei (1453), he discussed the contradictions ex-
isting among religions. He propounded that a large gathering
could not exist without a great number of contradictions; that
God sent to different nations different prophets and teachers,
and that it was inherent in human nature that “venerated prac-
tices which had become second nature were ultimately de-
fended as the truth.” He realized that God alone could help
mankind out of this disastrous strife, and, to this end, he be-
seeched God’s grace in the following prayer:
Thou art He, o God, who is sought in the different religions in
different ways and is named with different names, for Thou re-
mainest as Thou art, incomprehensible to all and ineffable. Be
Thou gracious and reveal Thy countenance... If Thou wouldst
be so gracious, then the sword, envious hatred, and all evil will
cease and all will realize that there is but one religion in the
variety of the religious customs.546

546 “Si sic facere dignaberis, cessabit gladius et odii livor et quaeque mala, et cogno-
scent omnes, quomodo non est nisi una religio in rituum varietate” (cap. 1,
fol. 114 V).


Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Paris Talks. Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Baha- in
Paris in 1911-12. London: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, 121971.
 The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Talks Delivered by
‘Abdu’l-Baha- during His Visit to the United States and Canada
in 1912. Compiled by Howard MacNutt, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i-
Publishing Trust, 21982.
 The Secret of Divine Civilization. Translated by Marzieh Gail
in consultation with Ali--Kuli Kha-n, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Pub-
lishing Trust, 21970.
 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha-. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice; trans-
lated by a Committee at the Baha-’i- World Centre and by Mar-
zieh Gail, Haifa: Baha-’i- World Centre, 1978.
 Some Answered Questions. Collected and translated from the
Persian by Laura Clifford Barney. London 1908; Wilmette/Ill.:
Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, 4th rev. ed. 1981.
Anders, Günther, Die Antiquiertheit des Menschen. Über die
Bombe und die Wurzel unserer Apokalypseblindheit, vol. 1,
München 1956.
 Die Antiquiertheit des Menschen. Über die Zerstörung des Le-
bens im Zeitalter der dritten industriellen Revolution, vol. 2,
München 1980.
Augustine, St. Augustine’s Confessions with an English translation
by William Watts, 1631 in two volumes, RP London: Heine-
mann 1960.
 “Enarrationes in Psalmos,” LI–C, in: Corpus Christianorum,
Series Latina, Sancti Aurelii Augustini Opera, Turnholti,
Typographi Brepols Editores Pontificii, 1956.
 The Retractations, tr. by Sister Mary Inez Bogan, Washington:
The Catholic University of America Press, 1968.


Ba-b, Selections from the Writings of the Ba-b, compiled by the Re-
search Department of the Universal House of Justice and trans-
lated by Habib Taherzadeh with the assistance of a Committee
at the Baha-’i- World Centre, Haifa: Baha-’i- World Centre, 1976.
Baeck, Leo, The Essence of Judaism, New York: Schocken
Books, rev. ed. 1948.
Baha-’i- Prayers, A Selection of Prayers revealed by Baha-’u’lla-h,
the Ba-b, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha-, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing
Trust, 1982.
Baha-’u’lla-h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, rev. ed. 1976.
 Gleanings from the Writings of Baha-’u’lla-h, translated by
Shoghi Effendi, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, 51971.
 The Hidden Words. Translated by Shoghi Effendi, Wil-
mette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, reprinted 1975.
 The Kita-b-i-Aqdas. The Most Holy Book, Haifa, Baha-’i- World
Centre, 1992.
 Kita-b-i-I-qa-n. The Book of Certitude. Translated by Shoghi Ef-
fendi, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, 6th RP 1974;
London: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, rev. ed. 1978.
 Prayers and Meditations, compiled and translated by Shoghi
Effendi, London: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, rev. ed. 1978.
 The Proclamation of Baha-’u’lla-h to the Kings and Leaders of
the World, Haifa: Baha-’i- World Centre, 1967.
 The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys. Translated by Ali-
Kuli Khan (Nabi-lu’d-Dawlih), assisted by Marzieh Gail, Wil-
mette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing Trust, 51978.
 Tablets of Baha-’u’lla-h revealed after the Kita-b-i-Aqdas. Com-
piled by the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice and translated by Habib Taherzadeh with the assistance
of a Committee at the Baha-’i- World Centre, Haifa: Baha-’i-
World Centre, 1978.

Bahro, Rudolf, Logik der Rettung. Wer kann die Apokalypse auf-
halten?, Stuttgart 1987.
Barz, Heiner, Postmoderne Religion am Beispiel der jungen Ge-
neration in den Alten Bundesländern, mit einem Vorwort von
Thomas Luckmann, Teil 2 des Forschungsberichts “Jugend und
Religion” im Auftrag der Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Evan-
gelischen Jugend in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland (aej),
Opladen 1992.
Bergedorfer Gesprächskreis zu Fragen der freien industriellen Ge-
sellschaft, Die ökologische Wende — hat sie noch Chancen?,
Protokoll no. 85, Hamburg 1988.
Bhagavad Gi-ta-, The, with an Introductory Essay, Sanskrit text,
English translation and notes by S. Radhakrishnan, New York:
George Allen & Unwin, 1974.
Bonhoeffer, Dietrich, Letters and Papers from Prison, London:
SCM Press, 1971.
Bonney, C. C., “Words of Welcome,” in: R. H. Seager (ed.), The
Dawn of Religious Pluralism. Voices from the World’s Parlia-
ment of Religions 1893, LaSalle/Ill., 1993.
Braun, Herbert, Gesammelte Studien zum Neuen Testament und
seiner Umwelt, Tübingen 1962.
Buhl, Frants, Das Leben Muhammeds, Deutsch von Hans Heinrich
Schaefer, Heidelberg 31961.
Bushrui, Suheil B., Retrieving our Spiritual Heritage. A Challenge
of Our Time. Inaugural Lecture, University of Maryland, 1994.
Cannuyer, Christian, Les Baha-’i-s. Peuple de la triple unité, Éd.
Brepols, 1987
Capra, Fritjof, The Turning Point. Science, Society and the Rising
Culture, London: Wildwood House Ltd, 1982.
Christliche Religion. Das Fischer Lexikon, P. Oskar Simmel SJ
and Dr. Rudolf Stählin (eds.), Frankfurt/M: Fischer Verlag,
1957.


Cohen, Hermann, Religion of Reason out of the Sources of Juda-
ism, with an Introduction by Simon Kaplan, Introductory Essay
by Leo Strauss, New York: Frederick Ungar Publ. Co, 1972.
Cole, Juan Ricardo, “The Concept of Manifestation in the Baha-’i-
Writings,” in: Baha-’i- Studies, no. 9, Ottawa/Ont., 1982.
Confucius, The Analects of Confucius, translated and annotated by
Arthur Waley, London: George Allen & Unwin Ltd, 61971 .
Declaration on the Relation of the Church to Non–Christian Re-
ligions, tr. Paul, Bishop, Servant of the Servants of God to-
gether with the fathers of the sacred council puts on permanent
record the Declaration, London: Catholic Truth Society, 1966.
Demandt, Alexander, Endzeit? Die Zukunft der Geschichte, Berlin
1993.
Denny, Frederick M., “Ethics and the Qur’a-n: Community and
World View,” in: Hovannisian, Richard G. (ed.), Ethics in Is-
lam, Malibu/Calif.: Undens Publications, 1983, pp. 103–121.
Denzinger, Heinrich (Henricus) (ed.), Enchiridion Symbolorum,
Definitionem et Declarationum de Rebus Fidei et Morum, Frei-
burg: Herder, 1963.
Dhammapada, in: Buddhaghosha’s Parables, tr. from Burmese by
Captain T. Rogers, R. E., with an Introduction, containing Bud-
dha’s Dhammapada, or “Path of Virtue”, tr. from Pali by
F. Max Müller, London: Trübner & Co, 1870.
Dialogue and Universalism. Toward Synergy and Civilizations.
Published monthly by the Institute of Philosophy, Warsaw Uni-
versity, 6.11-12/1996.
Digha Nikaya, Dialogues of the Buddha, translated from the Pali
of the Digha Nikaya by T. W. and C. A. F. Rhys Davids, pub-
lished for the Pali Text Society, vol. III, part II, London: Luzac
& Co Ltd,
41959.
— Ibid., in: Sacred Books of the Buddhists, vol. II: Dialogues of
the Buddha, transl. from the Pali by T. W. Rhys Davids, Part I,
London: Luzac & Co, 1956.

Dilworth, David A., Philosophy in World Perspective. A Compa-
rative Hermeneutic of Major Theories, Yale University 1989.
Ditfurth, Hoimar von, So laßt uns denn ein Apfelbäumchen pflan-
zen. Es ist soweit, Hamburg–Zürich 1985.
Eliade, Mircea and Joseph M. Kitagawa (eds), The History of Re-
ligions. Essays in Methodology, Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press, 1959.
Encyclopaedia Britannica. Book of the Year 1988, Chicago.
Esslemont, J. E., Baha-’u’lla-h and the New Era, London: Baha-’i-
Publishing Trust, 41974.
Fazel, Seena, “Interreligious Dialogue and the Baha-’i- Faith: Some
Preliminary Observations“, in: Jack McLean (ed.), Revisioning
the Sacred. New Perspectives on a Baha-’i- Theology. Studies in
the Babi and Baha’i Religions vol. 8, Los Angeles: Kalimat
Press, 1996.EQ,EQ,
— “Is the Baha-’i- Faith a World Religion?,” in: The Journal of
Baha-’i- Studies, 6.1 (March-June 1994), pp. 1-15EQ,EQ,.
Fazel, Seena/Kazeh Fananapazir, “A Baha-’i- Approach to the
Claim of Exclusivity and Uniqueness in Christianity,” in: The
Journal of Baha-’i- Studies, 3.2, p. 15 ff., Ottawa 1990–1991.
— “A Baha-’i- Approach to the Claim of Finality in Islam,” in: The
Journal of Baha-’i- Studies, 5.3, Ottawa, September–December,
1993.
Feyerabend, Paul K, Against Method, 3rd ed., London-New York:
Verso 1993.
Freud, Sigmund, The Standard Edition of the Complete Psycho-
logical Works of Sigmund Freud, translated from the German
under the General Editorship of James Strachey in collabora-
tion with Anna Freud, vol. XI (1910): Five Lectures on Psy-
cho–Analysis, Leonardo da Vinci and other works. London:
The Hogarth Press, 1957.


— “The Future of an Illusion,” in: The Standard Edition of the
Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, vol. XXI,
London: 1961, 6th ed. 1975.
— “Obsessive Acts and Religious Practices,” in: Collected Pa-
pers, vol. II, London: Hogarth Press 1924.
Friedlander, Michael, The Jewish Religion, 2nd ed. revised and en-
larged, London: Shapiro, Vallentine and Co, 1922.
Gail, Marzieh, Six Lessons on Islam, ed. by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha-’i-s of the United States of America, n. p.,
1953.
Geyer, Carl–Friedrich, “Die Wiederkehr mythischen Denkens.
Motive, Ausprägungen und Konsequenzen,” in: Herrenalber
Protokolle, no. 88 (Eine Schriftenreihe der Evangelischen A-
kademie Baden), vol. 4, 1987.
Goethe, Johann Wolfgang v., Faust, Part One, New York: Phi-
losophical Library, 1958.
 Gedenkausgabe der Werke, Briefe und Gespräche, vol. 22: Ge-
spräche, Ernst Beutler (ed.), Zürich: Artemis Verlag, 1949.
Goldziher, Ignaz, Introduction to Islamic Theology and Law.
Translated by Andras and Ruth Hamori. With an Introduction
and additional Notes by Bernard Lewis, Princeton/New Jersey:
Princeton University Press, 1981.
Gollmer, Claudia, Die metaphysischen und theologischen Grund-
lagen der Erziehungslehren in der Baha-’i-–Religion. Schriftli-
che Arbeit zur Erlangung des Grades eines magister artium,
vorgelegt am Institut für Philosophie und Pädagogik der Uni-
versität Stuttgart, 1982/83.
Gollmer, Ulrich, “Der lange  Weg zum  Größten  Frieden,” in: Ba-
ha-’i-–Briefe, Hofheim: Baha-´i-–Verlag, vol. 50, 1985; vol. 52,
1986.
Guidelines on Dialogue with People of Living Faiths and Ideolo-
gies, Geneva: World Council of Churches, 1979.

Gundert, Wilhelm, “Der Buddhismus,” in: Die großen nichtchrist-
lichen Religionen unserer Zeit in Einzeldarstellungen, Stutt-
gart: Kröner Verlag, 1954.
Habermas, Jürgen, Die neue Unübersichtlichkeit, Frankfurt 1985.
Harnack, Adolf von, Entstehung und Entwicklung der Kirchen-
verfassung und des Kirchenrechts in den zwei ersten Jahr-
hunderten, nebst einer Kritik der Abhandlung R. Sohm’s “We-
sen und Ursprung des Katholizismus,” Leipzig: J. C. Hinrichs,
1910.
Heiler, Friedrich, “The History of Religions as a Preparation for
the Co-operation of Religions,” in: Eliade, Mircea and Joseph
M. Kitagawa (eds.), The History of Religions. Essays in Meth-
odology, Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1959,
p. 40 ff.
Hemminger, Hans Jörg (ed.), Die Rückkehr der Zauberer. New
Age. Eine Kritik, Wiesbaden 1987.
Hick, John, God has Many Names, Philadelphia: Westminster
Press 1982.
 God and the Universe of Faiths. Essays in the Philosophy of
Religion, Oxford: One World, 1993.
— “Religious Diversity as Challenge and Promise,” in: Hick,
John/Hasan Askari, The Experience of Religious Diversity, Al-
dershot/England and Vermont/USA: Gower Publishing Com-
pany Ltd., 1985, repr. 1987, pp. 3–24.
Hick, John/Hasan Askari, The Experience of Religious Diversity,
Aldershot/England and Brookfield/USA: Gower Publishing
Company Ltd., 1985, repr. 1987.
Historia Mundi, Handbuch der Weltgeschichte in zehn Bänden,
begründet von Fritz Kern, hrsg. von Fritz Valjavec. Unter Mit-
wirkung des Instituts für Europäische Geschichte in Mainz,
vol. 5, München, 1956.
Horkheimer, Max, Die Sehnsucht nach dem ganz anderen. Ein In-
terview, Hamburg 1970.


Hornby, Helen, Lights of Guidance. A Bah’ Reference File, com-
piled by Helen Hornby, New Delhi: Bah’i- Publishing Trust
1983.
Horstmann, Ulrich, Das Untier. Konturen einer Philosophie der
Menschenflucht, Wien–Berlin: Medusa–Verlagsges. mbH, 1983.
Jaspers, Karl, Die geistige Situation der Zeit, Berlin–Leipzig 1931.
The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies. A Publication of the Association
for Baha-’i- Studies, Ottawa.
Journal of Religion, Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Jüngel, Eberhard, “Wertlose Wahrheit,” in: Carl Schmitt/E. Jüngel/
E. Schelz (ed.), Die Tyrannei der Werte, Hamburg: Lutheri-
sches Verlagshaus, 1979.
Jünger, Ernst, An der Zeitmauer, Stuttgart: Klett Verlag, 1959.
Kant, Immanuel, Critique of Practical Reason and Other Writings
in Moral Philosophy, London: Cambridge University Press,
Bentley House, 1976.
 “An Answer to the Question: ‘What is Enlightenment?’,” in:
Political Writings, ed. with an Introduction and Notes by Hans
Reiss, Cambridge 1970.
  Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone, transl. with an In-
troduction and Notes by Theodore M. Greene and Hoyt
H. Hudson, with a new essay “The Ethical Significance of
Kant’s Religion” by John R. Silber, New York: Harper Torch-
books, Harper & Row, 1960.
Katechismus der Katholischen Kirche, München–Wien 1993.
König, Franz, “Die Beziehungen zwischen Wissenschaft und Reli-
gion aus der Sicht unserer Zeit,” in: Oskar Schatz/Hans Spatzen-
egger (eds.), Wovon werden wir morgen geistig leben? Mythos,
Religion und Wissenschaft in der “Postmoderne,” Salzburg
1986, pp. 19–29.
Kraus, Wolfgang, Nihilismus heute oder Die Geduld der Welt-
geschichte, Frankfurt/M. 1985.

Kuhn, Thomas S., The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, 2nd ed.
enlarged, Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1970.
Küng, Hans, Christianity and the World Religions. Paths of Dia-
logue with Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism, transl. by Peter
Heinegg, London: Collins, 1991.
 Global Responsibility: In Search of a New World Ethic, with a
Preface by His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, Lon-
don: SCM Press, 1993.
 Paradigm Change in Theology, Edinburgh: T. & T. Clark,
1989.
Küng, Hans/Karl-Josef Kuschel (eds.), A Global Ethic. The Dec-
laration of the Parliament of the World’s Religions, London:
SCM Press, 1993.
Lane-Suzuki, Beatrice, Mahayana Buddhism, with an Introduction
by D. T. Suzuki and a Foreword by Christmas Humphreys,
London: George Allen & Unwin, 31959.
Laszlo, Ervin, Global denken. Die Neugestaltung der vernetzten
Welt, Rosenheim 1989.
— “Footnotes to a History of the Future,” in: Futures. The Journal
of Forecasting and Planning, published by IPC Science &
Technology, Oxford: Butterworth–Heinemann, October 1988.
Lehmann, Karl, “Vom Sinn christlicher Existenz zwischen Enthu-
siasmus und Institution,” in: Suche nach Sinn — Suche nach
Gott, ed. by Ansgar Paus, Graz–Wien–Köln 1978.
Lexikon für Theologie und Kirche (Höfer, Joseph und Karl Rahner
[eds.]), begründet von Dr. Michael Buchberger, Freiburg, zwei-
te, völlig neu bearbeitete Auflage 1957, Sonderausgabe 1986.
Abbreviation: LThK
Lommel, Herman, Die Gathas des Zarathustra, mit einem Anhang
von Erwin Wolff. Die Zeitfolge der Gathas des Zarathustra, ed.
by Bernfried Schlerath, Basel–Stuttgart: Schwabe & Co, 1971.


Löwith, Karl, Meaning in History. The Theological Implications
of the Philosophy of History, Chicago: The University of Chi-
cago Press, 1949.
Luther, Martin, Luther’s Works, ed. Jaroslav Pelikan, Saint Louis:
Concordia Publ. House.
— “Lectures on Galatians,” (1535) in: Luther’s Works, vol. 26,
chapters 1–4, Philadelphia: Muhlenberg Press, 1962.
Maha-bha-rata. A Summary, by J. M. Macfie, Madras et al.: Chris-
tian Literature Society for India, 1921.
Majjhima Nikaya, The first fifty Discourses from the Collection of
the Medium–Length Discourses of Gotama the Buddha. Freely
rendered and abridged from the Pali by the Bhikkhu Si-la-ca-ra,
München–Neubiberg: Oskar Schloß–Verlag, 21924.
Maulana Muhammad ‘Ali-, A Manual of H. adi-th, Lahore, n. d.
Mawdudi, Abul A‘la-, Towards Understanding Islam, published by
The Islamic Foundation, Leicester/U. K, 1980.
McLean, Jack, “Prolegomena to a Baha-’i- Theology,” in: The
Journal of Baha-’i- Studies, 5.1, Ottawa 1992.
McLean, Jack (ed.), Revisioning the Sacred. New Perspectives on
a Baha-’i- Theology. Studies in the Babi and Baha’i Religions
vol. 8, Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1997.
Meinhold, Peter, Die Religionen der Gegenwart. Ihre Herkunft —
ihre Besonderheiten — ihr Beitrag zur Lösung der Weltpro-
bleme, Freiburg 1978.
Mensching, Gustav, Soziologie der Religion, Bonn: Röhrscheid,
1947.
Messer, August/Max Pribilla SJ, Katholisches und modernes Den-
ken. Ein Gedankenaustausch über Gotteserkenntnis und Sitt-
lichkeit zwischen August Messer und Max Pribilla SJ, Stuttgart
1924.
Momen, Moojan, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam. The History and
Doctrines of Twelver Shi‘ism, Oxford 1985.

— “Relativism: A Basis for Baha-’i- Metaphysics,” in: M. Momen
(ed.), Studies in the Ba-bi- and Baha-’i- Religions, vol. 5,
p. 185 ff.
Muir, William, The Life of Mahomet, London: Smith, Elder and
Co, 1861.
Neumann, Karl Eugen, Übertragungen aus dem Pa-li–Kanon. Ge-
samtausgabe in drei Bänden (Sutta–Nipata), vol. III: Samm-
lungen in Versen, Zürich–Wien 1957.
Nietzsche, Friedrich, The Joyful Wisdom, London: George Unwin
& Allen, 1924.
— Thus Spake Zarathustra, New York: Random House, 1954.
— The Will to Power, London: Widenfeld and Nicolson, 1968.
Nipkow, Karl Ernst, “‘Oikumene’: Der Welt–Horizont als not-
wendige Voraussetzung christlicher Bildung und Erziehung im
Blick auf die nicht–christlichen Religionen,” in: Lähnemann,
Johannes, (ed.), Die Wiederkehr der Religionen als pädagogi-
sche Herausforderung. Interreligiöse Erziehung im Spannungs-
feld von Fundamentalismus und Säkularismus, Hamburg: EB–
Verlag Rissen, 1992.
Numrich, Paul D., “The Baha-’i- Faith in World Religions Text-
books,” in: World Order, 25.1, Wilmette/Ill.
Otto, Rudolf, The Idea of the Holy. An Inquiry into the Non–
Rational Factor in the Idea of the Divine and its Relation to the
Rational, 6th impression rev. with additions, London: Oxford
University Press, 1931.
Oxtoby, Willard Gurdon, The Meaning of Other Faiths, with a
Preface by Hans Küng, Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1983.
Parry, Robert, “Philosophical Theology in Baha-’i- Scholarship,”
in: Baha-’i- Studies Bulletin, ed. by Stephen Lambden, New-
castle upon Tyne, October 1992.
Pascal, Blaise, Pensées. Texte établi par Louis Lafuma,
chronologie, préface, notes, archives de l’oeuvre, index par
Dominique Descotes, Paris: Garnier–Flammarion, 1973.


Pope John Paul II, Entrez dans l’espérance. Livre–entretien de
Jean Paul II avec le journaliste Vittorio Messori, Paris: Mame–
Plon, 1994.
— Veritatis Splendor. Encyclical Letter, Addressed by Pope John
Paul II  to all bishops of the Catholic Church regarding certain
fundamental questions of the Church’s moral teaching, in: John
Wilkins (ed.), Considering Veritatis Splendor, Cleveland/Ohio:
The Pilgrim Press, 1944.
Proudhon, Pierre Joseph, De la création de l’ordre dans l’huma-
nité ou principes d’organisation politique, Paris–Besan-
çon 1843.
Radbruch, Gustav, Rechtsphilosophie, ed. by Erik Wolf and Hans-
Peter Schneider, Stuttgart: K. F. Köhler Verlag, 81973.
Radhakrishnan, Savarpalli, Recovery of Faith, London: George
Allen & Unwin, 1956.
Rahman, Fazlur, Major Themes of the Qur’a-n, Chicago: Biblio-
theca Islamica, 1980.
Reat, N. Ross/Edmund F. Perry, A World Theology. The Central
Spiritual Reality of Humankind. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1991.
Riedel, Ingrid (ed.), Der unverbrauchte Gott. Neue Wege der Re-
ligiosität, München–Wien 1976.
Rosenkranz, Gerhard, Die Baha-’i-. Ein Kapitel neuzeitlicher Reli-
gionsgeschichte, Stuttgart 1949.
 Der christliche Glaube angesichts der Weltreligionen, Bern–
München: Francke Verlag, 1967.
Rost, H. T. D., The Golden Rule. A Universal Ethic, Oxford:
George Ronald, 1986.
Ruppert, Hans-Jürgen, Die Hexen kommen. Magie und Hexen-
glaube heute, Wiesbaden 1987.
Saddhatissa, H., Buddhist Ethics. Essence of Buddhism, Foreword
by M. O’C. Walshe, London: Allen & Unwin, 1970.

Saeger, R. H., The Dawn of Religious Pluralism. Voices from the
World’s Parliament of Religions, 1893, Illinois 1993.
Samastha, Stanley J., “Ganga and Galilee: Two Responses to
Truth,” in: Hick,  John/Hasan  Askari, The  Experience of Reli-
gous Diversity, pp. 91–110.
Sanyutta–Nikaya. The Book of the Kindred Sayings or Grouped
Suttas, transl. by Mrs. Rhys Davids, London: Oxford Univer-
sity Press, n. d.
Sartory, Thomas, “Zeitenwende? Die Hoffnung der Religionen auf
einen kommenden Retter,” in: Riedel, Ingrid (ed.), Der unver-
brauchte Gott. Neue Wege der Religiosität, München–Wien
1976.
Schaefer, Udo, “The Baha-’i- Faith: Sect or Religion?” transl. from
the German by Gerald C. Keil, in: Baha-’i- Studies. A Publicat-
ion of the Association for Baha-’i- Studies, no. 16, Ottawa 1988.
— “Baha-’u’lla-h’s Unity Paradigm: A Contribution to Interfaith
Dialogue on a Global Ethic,” in: Dialogue and Universalism,
6.11-12/1996, pp. 23-41.
— “‘The Balance hath been Appointed’: Some Thoughts on the
Publication of the Kita-b-i-Aqdas,” in: Baha-’i- Studies Review,
3.1, London 1993.
— Die Freiheit und ihre Schranken. Zum Begriff der Freiheit in
Baha-’u’lla-hs Kita-b-i-Aqdas, Hofheim 1994.
 Die Grundlagen der Verwaltungsordnung der Baha’i, Heidel-
berg 1957 (thesis).
 The Imperishable Dominion. The Baha-’i- Faith and the Future
of Mankind, Oxford: George Ronald, 1983.
 The Light Shineth in Darkness. Five Studies in Revelation after
Christ, Oxford: George Ronald, 1977.
Schaefer, Udo/Nicola Towfigh/Ulrich Gollmer, Desinformation
als Methode. Die Baha-’ismus–Monographie des F. Ficicchia,
Hildesheim: Olms, 1995.


Schatz, Oskar/Spatzenegger, Hans (ed.), Wovon werden wir mor-
gen geistig leben? Mythos, Religion und Wissenschaft in der
“Postmoderne,” Salzburg 1986.
Schedl, Claus, Muhammad und Jesus. Die christologisch relevan-
ten Texte des Korans, neu übers. und erklärt von C. Schedl,
Wien–Freiburg/ Brsg.–Basel: Herder 1978.
Schimmel, Annemarie, “Der Beitrag der islamischen Mystik zur
Einheit der Religionen,” in: Gemeinschaft und Politik, 12.5,
1957, ed. by the Institut für Geo–Soziologie und Politik, Bad
Godesberg.
Schleiermacher, Friedrich, Ernst Daniel, On Religion. Speeches to
its Cultural Despisers, transl. with Introduction by John Oman,
London: K. P. Trench, Trübner & Co, 1892.
Schlink, Basilea, New Age. Le mouvement de nouveaux âge à la
lumière de la Bible, Darmstadt 1989.
Schmitt, Carl /E. Jüngel/E. Schelz (eds.), Die Tyrannei der Werte,
Hamburg: Lutherisches Verlagshaus, 1979.
Seneca, Seneca’s Tragedies, with an English translation by Frank
Justus Miller, in two vols. I: Hercules furens, Troades, Medea,
Hippolytus, Oedipus. London: William Heinemann Ltd.; Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1960.
Shoghi Effendi, Guidance for Today and Tomorrow. A Selection
of the Letters of the Late Guardian of the Baha-’i- Faith, London
21973.
— The World Order of Baha-’u’lla-h, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publish-
ing Trust, 2nd rev. ed. 1974.
— The Promised Day is Come, Wilmette/Ill.: Baha-’i- Publishing
Trust, rev. ed. 1963.
Shorter Encyclopaedia of Islam, ed. on behalf of the Royal Neth-
erlands Academy by H. A. R. Gibb and J. H. Kramers, Leiden,
photomechanic Reprint 1961.
Smith, P./M. Momen, “The Baha-’i- Faith 1957–1988: A Survey of
Contemporary Developments,” in: Religion, 19/1989.

Smith, Wilfred Cantwell, On Understanding Islam. Selected Stud-
ies, Den Haag–Paris–New York: Mouton Publ., 1981.
— Towards a World Theology. Faith and the Comparative His-
tory of Religion, London and Basingstoke: The Macmillan
Press Ltd., 1981.
Sohm, Rudolf, Kirchenrecht, vol. 1. Die geschichtlichen Grundla-
gen, Leipzig 1892, vol. 2. Katholisches Kirchenrecht, 1923.
Sonne der Wahrheit. Zeitschrift für Weltreligion und Welteinheit,
ed. by Der Nationale Geistige Rat der Baha-’i- in Deutschland
und Österreich e. V., Stuttgart.
Spangler, David, Reflections on the Christ, Findhorn, Moray/
Scotland: Findhorn Publications, 31981.
Swidler, Leonard, “Interreligious and Interideological Dialogue:
The Matrix for all Systematic Reflection Today,” in: Toward a
Universal Theology of Religion, ed. by Leonard Swidler,
Maryknoll, N. Y.: Orbis Books. 1987, pp. 5–50.
Taherzadeh, Adib, The Revelation of Baha-’u’lla-h, vol. 1, Oxford:
George Ronald, 1974; vol. 4, 1987.
Talbi, Muhammad, “A Community of Communities: The Right to
be Different and the Ways of Harmony,” in: Hick, John /Hasan
Askari, The Experience of Religious Diversity, pp. 66–90.
Talmud, The Babylonian, Seder Nezikin in four volumes, trans-
lated into English with Notes, Glossary and Indices under the
editorship of Rabbi Dr. I. Epstein, Foreword by the very rev.
the late chief Rabbi Dr. J. H. Hertz, Introduction by the editor,
London: The Soncino Press, first published 1978.
The Tao Teh King. Canon of Reason and Virtue, Chicago 1913.
Theologische Realenzyklopädie (TRE), vol. V, Berlin: de Gruyter,
1980.
Toynbee, Arnold J., Christianity and the Religions of the World,
New York: Scribner, 1957.


Trepp, Leo, “Judaism and the Religions of the World,” in: Hick,
John/Hasan Askari, The Experience of Religious Diversity,
pp. 34–52.
Visser’t Hooft, W. A., No Other Name. The Choice Between Syn-
cretism and Christian Universalism, London: SCM Press, 1963
Weber, Max, “Science as Vocation,” in: Essays in Sociology,
translated, edited and with an introduction by Hans H. Gerth
and C. Wright Mills, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd.,
71970.
Weizsäcker, Carl Friedrich von, Wahrnehmung der Neuzeit, Mün-
chen 1983.
Wetter, Kardinal Friedrich, “Zur Glaubenssituation in Deutsch-
land,” in: zur debatte. Themen der Katholischen Akademie in
Bayern, 19.1 (January/February 1989), München.
White, Robert A., “Spiritual Foundations for an Ecologically Sus-
tainable Society,” in: The Journal of Baha-’i- Studies, 2.1, Ot-
tawa, 1989–1990.
World Council of Churches (ed.), Guidelines on Dialogue with
People of Living Faiths and Ideologies, Geneva 1979.
Yusuf, Ali Abdullah, The Meaning of the Glorious Qur’a-n, vol. II,
Cairo: Dar al-Kitab al-Masri, 1938.
Zahrnt, Heinz, Gotteswende. Christsein zwischen Atheismus und
neuer Religiosität, München–Zürich 31992.
— The Question of God. Protestant Theology in the Twentieth
Century, London: Collins, 1969.
zur debatte. Themen der Katholischen Akademie in Bayern, Ka-
tholische Akademie in Bayern (ed.), München.
