The Singapore Baha'i
Studies Review
1996 - Volume 1, Number 1
MITA (P) 336/04/97
Papers
The Spiritual Foundations of Science,
Anjam Khursheed
The Emergence of the Baha'i Faith in Singapore (1950-1972),
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Jesus the Son of God and the Incarnation Doctrine,
Antonella Khursheed and Anjam Khursheed
Baha'i Guidelines to Healing and the Role of Homoeopathy,
Mozhdeh Foo
On the Nature of Baha'i Communities,
Check Woo Foo
Special Supplement
A Compilation of Baha'i Writings on Scholarship
Journal of the Association for Baha'i Studies of Singapore

i
The Singapore Baha'i Studies Review
Volume If Number 1
Selected papers presented at the first Singapore Baha'i Studies
Conference, held at the Singapore Baha'i Centre, 110/D Wishart Road,
5th April 1996
Association for Baha'i Studies
Singapore

The views expressed in this journal do not necessarily reflect those of
the Association, nor are they authoritative renderings of Baha'i belief.
Printed by
Ultra Supplies
No. 1 Queensway #03-26/37/38/39/45
Queensway Shopping Centre, Singapore 149053
© Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Singapore, 1996.
All rights reserved.
i

Contents
Note from editor
Papers
The Spiritual Foundations of Science
Anjam Khursheed
The Emergence of the Baha'i Faith in Singapore (1950-1972)
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Jesus the Son of God and the Incarnation Doctrine
Antonella Khursheed and Anjam Khursheed
Baha'i Guidelines to Healing and the Role of Homoeopathy
Mozhdeh Foo
On the Nature of Baha'i Communities
Check Woo Foo
Special Supplement
A Compilation of Baha'i Writings on Scholarship
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice

Note from editor
Association for Baha'i Studies groups have been rapidly multiplying all
over the world ever since the first one was created in Canada in 1974.
Here in Singapore, a modest yet important start was made in the year
1996 when the first Singapore Baha'i Studies conference was held on
April 5th, at the Baha'i Centre located at 110/D Wishart Road.
Selected papers from that conference supplied the impetus to produce
this initial Baha'i Studies volume. To encourage full participation, the
conference was deliberately not given a specific theme, and as a result,
the papers included here cover a wide range of diverse subjects.
With kind permission of the Universal House of Justice, their Research
Department's compilation on scholarship brought out in February 1995
is published here as a special supplement. It is hoped that this
compilation may always serve as an inspiration and guide towards
Baha'i scholarship in Singapore,
Dr. Anjam Khursheed, editor
December 1996