Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Eleven

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of
their authors. Reproductions from this compilation are
permitted provided that the sources and authors are clearly
indicated, with the exception of provisional translations,
which are not to be further distributed.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Eleven
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Manuscript Edited by Omid Nolley and Jonah Winters
Artwork by Trey Yancy
Graphic Design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.org
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
167 B.E. 2010 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-03-9
Copyright © 2010, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

O MY BROTHER! Hearken to the delightsom
words of My honeyed tongue, and quaff the stream of
mystic holiness from My sugar-shedding lips. Sow the
seeds of My divine wisdom in the pure soil of thy heart,
and water them with the water of certitude, that the
hyacinths of My knowledge and wisdom may spring up
fresh and green in the sacred city of thy heart.
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
To read the writings of the Faith and to strive to obtain a
more adequate understanding of the significance of
Bahá’u’lláh's stupendous Revelation are obligations laid
on every one of His followers. All are enjoined to delve
into the ocean of His Revelation and to partake, in
keeping with their capacities and inclinations, of the
pearls of wisdom that lie therein.
Universal House of Justice, Ridván 2010

Table of Contents
Preface.....................................................................................................i
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí
and Bahá’í Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
by Amín E. Egea ................................................................................1
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan ..............................................................................21
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on
a Letter from Shoghi Effendi
Gerald Keil.......................................................................................55
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel.........................................................................99
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge .......................................................................................149
Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality
(Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)
Moojan Momen ............................................................................203
Law˙ Basí† Al-Óaqíqa ....................................................................213
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand.......................................................................223
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i Qiná‘
Sholeh A. Quinn............................................................................257
The Indispensibility of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple .....................................................................................271
Elucidations
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice...............................287
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice....................................299
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice...............301
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations............305
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Ten.....................................306
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia...................................................315

i

Preface
O MY BROTHER! Hearken to the delightsom words of
My honeyed tongue, and quaff the stream of mystic
holiness from My sugar-shedding lips. Sow the seeds of
My divine wisdom in the pure soil of thy heart, and
water them with the water of certitude, that the
hyacinths of My knowledge and wisdom may spring up
fresh and green in the sacred city of thy heart.
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
The independent search for truth is a fundamental principle
of the Bahá’í belief system. It is one of the spiritual obligations
of every individual Bahá’í. Fulfillment of this obligation
demands systematic study and proper understanding of the
prescription for living given by Bahá’u’lláh to the people of the
world. It has an enlightening effect and strengthens and
consolidates each individual's personal understanding of and
adherence to the directives for living a Bahá’í life. The Universal
House of Justice provided the following guidance in the
message of Ridvan 2010:
To read the writings of the Faith and to strive to
obtain a more adequate understanding of the
significance of Bahá’u’lláh's stupendous Revelation are
obligations laid on every one of His followers. All are
enjoined to delve into the ocean of His Revelation and
to partake, in keeping with their capacities and
inclinations, of the pearls of wisdom that lie therein.
The `Irfán Colloquium and its publications are aimed at
promoting Bahá’í scholarly activities and facilitating the
fulfillment of the above-mentioned spiritual obligation. The
Lights of `Irfán presents the outcome of study and research in
the Bahá’í Writings, interfacing Bahá’í teachings with the
current religious and intellectual trends and with social

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
ii
challenges confronting humanity. The Universal House of
Justice in a letter issued on its behalf on 24 April 2008
emphasizes the need for and advantages gained by scholarly
studies in the following words:
The House of Justice is fully committed to fostering
the development of Bahá’í scholarly activity in all parts
of the Bahá’í world. Through their scholarly endeavours
believers are able to enrich the intellectual life of the
Bahá’í community, to explore new insights into the
Bahá’í teachings and their relevance to the needs of
society, and to attract the investigation of the Faith by
thoughtful people from all backgrounds. Far from
being a diversion from the worldwide effort to advance
the process of entry by troops, Bahá’í scholarship can
be a powerful reinforcement to that endeavour and a
valuable source of new enquirers.
In 2009, on the occasion of the centenary commemoration
of
the
publication
of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá's
Some
Answered
Questions, Irfán Colloquium began to present and eventually
publish the studies related to the topics and concepts
delineated in that book. It is hoped this activity would
continue and collection of scholarly studies related to that
unique book would form a supplemental source for better
understanding and appreciating the contents of Some
Answered Questions.
Most of the articles published in this volume are the texts of
the papers presented at the `Irfán Colloquia in 2009 which were
held at the Acuto Centre for Bahá’í Studies in Italy, Bosch
Bahá’í School in California and Louhelen Bahá’í School in
Michigan.
The series of articles entitled “Chronicle of a Birth, Early
References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions” by Amin Egea that
started in Book Five has continued. In this volume, Part III of
this series covers the period of 1873 to 1895. This series
presents references published in Spain and supplements “The
Babi and Bahá’í Religions, 1844- 1944: Some Cotemporary
Western Accounts” by Moojan Momen which was published in
1981.

Preface
iii
“Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi
Works” is the fourth paper contributed by Youli Ioannesyan
to The Lights of `Irfán. The three earlier papers are published in
Books II, VII, and VIII. Mr. Ioannesyan's papers are the
results of his research and study of the documents at the St.
Petersburg Institute of Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian
Academy of Sciences. This article is his attempt to trace and
highlight correspondences which he believes to exist between the
dates and facts symbolically referred to in the messianic
prophecy of Siyyid Kázim and notable events in Bábí and Bahá’í
history.
From the beginning of the activities of the `Irfán Colloquium
it was hoped that the papers submitted in English, Persian or
German could be translated into the other two languages and
published in the series of annual publications of the `Irfán
publications. The article on “The Lesser Peace and the Most
Great Peace” by Ali Nakhjavani published in Lights of `Irfán
Book Nine was the English version of the article originally
published in Persian in Safini-yi `Irfán Book Ten. Now we are
happy that Gerald Keil has provided an English translation of
his paper, “Textual Context and Literary Criticism” that was
originally presented in German at the `Irfán Kolloquium held in
Tambach, Germany, 2007 and printed in `Irfán-Studien zum
Bahá’í-Schrifttum: Beiträge des `Irfán-Kolloquiums 2007/2008.
This is a case study of a phrase from a letter written on behalf
of Shoghi Effendi in 1940. The sole purpose of this study is to
explore whether this text passage represents an unambiguous
confirmation of the indispensability of such a spot for the
determination of the day of Naw-Rúz as stipulated by
Bahá’u’lláh, as is generally assumed, or whether it could also be
understood in some other way. The methodology used in this
study is known as literary criticism (“literary” in the broad
sense of “anything written”). In this presentation, this term
implies the systematic analysis of the written word as a
preliminary stage of the process of exegesis and — to achieve
clarity from the very start — has nothing to do with criticism
in the sense of complaint or faultfinding.
In 1993 German theologian Hans Küng presented a
‘Declaration Towards a Global Ethic’ in the Parliament of the
World’s Religions in 1993. It has become a subject of a number

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
iv
of pro and con studies. Wolfgang Klebel in “The Path of God:
Declaration Towards a Global Ethic” attempts to demonstrate
that the Bahá’í Tradition follows substantially in the same
tradition of all other religions, having in common with them
many spiritual principles. Further, it compares several specific
ethical principles as they are expressed in the Declaration of a
Global Ethic with the ethical principles of the Bahá’í Faith.
Ian Kluge in “Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings”
attempts to demonstrate how familiarity with the work of
Plotinus and those who have followed his philosophical school
can be useful in understanding philosophical concepts
embedded in the Bahá’í Writing. It also argues that in terms of
philosophical affinities, the philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í
Writings is a unique type of objective idealism.
The Tradition (Hadith) “What is the Truth” related by
Kumayl bin Ziyad has received a wide range of explanatory
exegesis treatments in the Islamic literature and has been
mentioned in a number of occasions in the Writings of the
Founders of Bahá’í Faith. Furthermore some Bahá’í scholars
have also written commentaries on this Tradition. Moojan
Momen in “Baha'u'llah's Tablet of Uncompounded Reality
(Law˙-i Basí†-Al-Óaqiqa)” discusses the Báb's Commentary on
this Tradition. He demonstrates that the Báb refers to himself
as Subh–i Azal and it is a reference to the Báb's declaration of
his own true station. A recent publication of `Irfán
Colloquium (in Persian), Aftab Amad Dalil-i Aftab: The Proof
of the Sun is the Sun” by Vahid Rafati provides detail
information on the Islamic background and in the Bahá’í
literature on this subject.
“A Comparative Study of Hinduism and the Bahá’í Faith” by
Anupam Premanand is a comparative study of the phenomenon
of the Divine Revelation from Hindu and Bahá’í points of
view. He comes to the conclusion that the Bahá’í Faith and
Hinduism are two most common Faiths who have spoken in the
loudest terms of the eternal nature of Religion. The words of
Bahá’u’lláh “the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past,
eternal in the future” and the Hindu term of “Sanatana
Dharma, the Eternal Law” have inspired the author to study

Preface
v
and compare the Hindu and the Bahá’í conception of
Revelation and he finds them to be strikingly similar.
Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Veil (Qina`) revealed in response
to questions asked by a Bábí in relation to the objection raised
by Karim Khan-i Kirmani, a Shaykhi leader and a famous enemy
and opponent of the Báb, regarding certain grammatical
points in the Writings of the Báb, contains a wide range of
subjects. In the words of Sholeh Quinn this article attempts to
place this Tablet in historical context, and demonstrate how
that context explains certain elements in that Tablet.
The Bahá’í Faith has revolutionized the procedure and the
manner of conduct in using consultation as a technique for
problem
solving
and
group
decision
making.
“The
Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human
Affairs” by Ian Semple, explains the unique features of Bahá’í
consultation. It demonstrates that consultation is not just a
technique to be learned, but a development of the character of
the individuals who participate in it.
The section entitled ELUCIDATIONS includes the text of
three messages from the Universal House of Justice providing
guidance on three import matters related to the World Centre
of the Bahá’í Faith, i.e. Guardianship and the Universal House
of Justice, infallibility, authority and centrality of the
Universal House of Justice.
For those readers interested to know the topics of the papers
published in previous volumes of the Lights of `Irfán, Appendix
II presents a list of all those papers. This listing of the papers
published in various volumes of the Lights of `Irfán provides a
preliminary familiarity with the range, types, methodological
approaches and scope of the papers that are welcome to be
presented at the `Irfán Colloquia and be considered for
publication in The Lights of `Irfán. In addition to the papers
presented at the `Irfán Colloquia, research papers related to the
main goals of the `Irfán Colloquium are welcome to be directly
submitted.
Starting with Book Six we have made two changes to the
`Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix I, “Bibliography of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
vi
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations
from Sacred Writings (not including statements by Shoghi
Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All papers in this volume present the views and
understanding of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. The writing styles and
scholarly approaches are therefore different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the author’s surnames.






Iraj Ayman






Chicago May 2010

Chronicles of a Birth Part III
Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in
Spain (1873-1895)*
by Amín E. Egea
translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Francisco de Paula Canalejas
Francisco de Paula Canalejas (b. 1834, Córdoba, Spain — d.
1883, Madrid, Spain) was a distinguished nineteenth century
Spanish scholar. Chair of the history of philosophy at the
Universidad Central de Madrid, prolific author, and follower
of Krausist philosophy [after German philosopher Karl
Christian Friedrich Krause], today he is mostly known for
having been the uncle and mentor of assassinated Spanish
president José Canalejas.
On May 3, 1874, he published in Revista Europea1 the first
installment of an article titled La Historia de las Religiones

* *The text of “Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábi and
Bahá’í Religions (1854-1876)” published in The Lights of `Irfán, Book VII
was republished, by mistake, under the title of “Chronicles of a Birth:
Early References to the Bábi and Bahá’í Religions (1873-1895” in The
Lights of `Irfán, Book VIII. The correct text of this article is now
published in the present volume. The sequence of these series of articles
on Chronicles of a Birth by Amin Egea, so far published in The Lights of
`Irfán, is as follows:
Part I : 1850-1853 in The Lights of `Irfán, Book V
Part II: 1854- 1876 in The Lights of `Irfán, Book VII
Part III: 1873-1895 in The Lights of `Irfán, Book XI

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
[The History of Religions], which he dedicated to the poet
Ramón Campoamor (b. 1817, Navia, Spain — d. 1901, Madrid,
Spain). Like Juan Valera in his La Religión de la Humanidad
[Humanity’s Religion]2, Canalejas sought in his work to justify
religion’s enduring legacy and man’s need for spirituality. The
article would later become a chapter in his book titled El
problema religioso: Doctrinas religiosas del racionalismo
contemporáneo [The Question of Religion: Contemporary
Rationalism’s Religious Doctrines] (Madrid, 1875).
La Historia de las Religiones opens with an interesting
critique of certain academic trends at the heart of the study of
the history of religion. After a brief introduction to the Vedic
and Avestan religions, Canalejas introduces Babism as follows:
Even today heresies in the Oriental countries, whether
in India, China, or Persia, surface as frequently as the
philosophical
theories
circulating
in
German
universities, the only difference being that the former
move the hearts of entire populations and uproot
them, as in the days of Muhammad, and give rise to
revolutions that rival those of 16th century Europe.
Babism is a sterling example of this vitality of religious
thought in the Orient. Its history, though rooted in the
present century, displays characteristics reminiscent
of past ages.3
Canalejas cites Gobineau as his source of information about
the Báb’s religion. His article goes on to narrate some of
Babism’s most relevant historical episodes: the Báb’s
declaration, His pilgrimage to Mecca, the features of His
influential personality, the rapid spread of His doctrines,
opposition from the Muslim clergy, the vicissitudes faced by
Mullá Husayn and Táhirih, the Bábí resistance at the Fort of
Shaykh Tabarsí, and, finally, the Báb’s martyrdom. As for Bábí
doctrine
itself,
Canalejas,
in
closing
his
exposition,
summarizes it thus:
Babism’s sacred literature is extremely copious. It
defends Muhammadan monotheism without rejecting
Christian hypostases [i.e., Trinitarian doctrines]. God
is the Creator, according to Babism, but God’s

Chronicles of a Birth
creation does not proceed directly from God, but
rather is one of His effects limited by time and space.
Creation is equivalent to a temporal separation of that
which has been created with respect to pure essence;
but everything shall return to God at the end of times,
and, not until the day of final judgment will God’s
essence become fully known. Humanity’s occupation is
to seek God; all of man’s obligations revolve around
obedience to Him. In short, Babism is an Alexandrian
doctrine, a Gnostic teaching, which breaks off from
Muhammadanism and seeks points of commonality
and agreement with Christianity. The Bab is not God’s
prophet; rather he is only the prophet for the century
[emphasis Canalejas’s], inasmuch as divine revelation
complements itself through a series of human
manifestations that arise throughout time, until the
full revelation is consummated on the day of final
judgment.
Let the aforesaid suffice, my dear friend, to prove my
thesis and conclude, like Max-Muller, that it is just as
important to document the authentic and pristine
religious doctrines of ancient peoples as it is to follow
their history with a view toward what they eventually
become or what direction they take through centuries
and generations.
The second and final installment of the article was published on
May 10, though the references it contained about Babism were
less relevant.
Adolfo Rivadeneyra
Two centuries of estrangement between Spain and Persia
came to a close in 1842, with the signing in London of a treaty
meant to foster friendly relations and trade between the two
nations. Very little came about as a result of the treaty, which
was ratified some thirty years later, and it would not be until
1874 that Spain dispatched a diplomatic mission to Persia.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Said delegation consisted of a vice-consul whose primary
objective was to explore potential trade routes in Persia. The
mission was placed in the charge of Adolfo Rivadeneyra.
Rivadeneyra (b. 1841, Valparaíso, Chile — d. 1882, Madrid,
Spain)4 began his diplomatic career in 1863 as a joven de
lenguas (attaché) assigned to the consulate in Beirut. By then he
was already fluent in five living languages, in addition to
Latin.
In Beirut he devoted himself to the study of Arabic at the
monastery in Ain-Warka. A mere fifty days following his
arrival, the Spanish Consul, Antonio Bernal O’Reilly, wrote to
his superiors in astonishment over how quickly Rivadeneyra
had learned Arabic. Within a year he was able to write a
treatise on grammar that he titled Estudio sobre el mecanismo
de la lengua árabe [A Study of the Mechanism of the Arabic
Language]. Displaying the same tenacity with which he had
learned Arabic, he subsequently learned Turkish, Sinhalese,
Hebrew, Armenian, Sanskrit, and, eventually, Persian.
After his tour of duty in Beirut, he continued his diplomatic
career occupying several positions such as Vice-Consul or
Provisional Consul in Palestine, Turkey, Syria, Ceylon [Sri
Lanka], and Morocco, while at the same time publishing
articles in the Spanish press and a book about his travels titled
Viaje de Ceilán a Damasco [Journey from Ceylon to
Damascus].5
On September 17, 1873, Emilio Castelar, President of the
Republic [of Spain], authorized Rivadeneyra’s appointment as
Vice-Consul of Persia, and, on April 11 of the following year,
he assumed his post in Tehran.
Barely a year and a half had passed before Rivadeneyra asked
to return. His departure signaled the end of Spain’s Vice-
Consulate in Persia. Once back in Madrid, Rivadeneyra began
writing, on the basis of his travel notes, his Viaje al Interior de
Persia [Journey Into Persia]6, a work encompassing three
volumes and which, in several instances, makes references to
Babism.

Chronicles of a Birth
In the fifth chapter of volume one, Rivadeneyra includes a
lengthy summary of the history of Persia and ancient Iran. The
last twelve pages contain an exposition on Babism:
Before bringing to a close this cursory report on a
Nation plagued by so many tragic, though not
unrelated, events, I wish to focus on one incident that
took place not long ago; that is, in the latter days of the
indolent Muhammad Shah’s reign.
It was an extraordinary incident, not only in and of
itself, but also because of what it could have led to; an
incident that will demonstrate yet again how fragile is
the foundation on which seemingly everlasting
monuments are erected, where we declare them to be the
handiwork of gods, when, in reality, they are but the
by-products of chance.
Around 1844, in Shiraz, the cradle of insight, lived a
nineteen-year-old youth by the name of Mirza Alí
Muhammad, the descendant of an Imam, like many of
his fellow countrymen, and deeply devoted to the study
of religions in general, his own especially. He was
handsome, affable, eloquent in speech, and, in addition
to possessing such enviable traits, had great reserve, the
product not of ignorance or timidity, but rather of
reflection.7
Rivadeneyra then continues with a thorough account — based
entirely on Gobineau’s work — of Bábí history and precepts,
occasionally interspersing throughout the narrative his own
observations:
To get an idea of the fear that the Bábis, now scattered
throughout all of Iran, inspire even today, suffice it to
say that I, a European, would never dare utter the name
of that sect in any bazaar for fear of inciting a riot.
It is truly regrettable that the apostles of the new
Messiah were not more prudent; had they been, their
victory would have been assured. Whenever the
Government seeks to intensify its battle against the
converts, it finds them in the majority. And it is not
that the believers were being led by the goodness that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
the religious impulse generates. Those poor souls lack
such motivation; earning their daily bread is struggle
enough. But the idea of enhancing their national
identity by enthroning an Imam descended from Alí —
and related by blood to Yazdigird, the last Sassanid
ruler, no less — stroked their egos, so bruised today by
the presence of a Turanian sitting upon Cyrus’s
throne.
This circumstance will continue to feed and nourish
Babism, and will someday allow it to acquire renewed
vigor. It is doubtful, however, that it will triumph in
the end, because such enterprises can not be frustrated;
they either triumph or die out.8
Rivadeneyra admits that he tried in vain to obtain any of the
Báb’s writings:
It has been impossible, despite my best efforts, to
obtain a sample of the writings of the Bab — the name
adopted by the alleged herald of the ‘Great Redeemer’ —
nor of any accounts from the period during which he
lived and which are still being written today. Mr.
Gobineau found himself in special circumstances that
allowed him to acquire the Biyan [sic] or Exposition on
What Is Important to Know. What he has published is
but a small fragment of the Bab’s writings. The most
complete collection of same are to be found in St.
Petersburg.9
And he concludes his article with the following reflection:
I do not know how to describe the revolution
consummated by Babism. What I do know is that in
the time of Darius, during the Sassanid dynasty, [and]
throughout the entire Muhammadan period, those men
that proclaimed a religious idea went on to become
their Nation’s favored sons. Lacking an exemplar, they
embrace the first man that presents himself to them,
and they embrace him with faith and heroism; proof of
this being that they are still in the earliest stage of
moral development, which is faith carried to the altar
of sacrifice. Perhaps due to this the Persians will arrive

Chronicles of a Birth
before we do at the ideal of human society, which, I
suppose, is equalitas sub more; in other words, what
was in the beginning.10
The remaining volumes contain assorted detailed references
to Babism of relative importance. The third volume contains
the following anecdote:
On the eve of my departure, a youth approached me
and asked if I would help out the lovers of truth;
neither the Mirza nor I could guess who those lovers
were, and since the lad would not give me a straight
answer, I gave him some loose change and sent him on
his way. As soon as he departed, the cook came over to
inform me that said individual was a Bábí, and that,
therefore, I should avoid him in the future, lest the
Governor become suspicious of me.11
This encounter is reminiscent of another very similar one
recounted by E. G. Browne while in Isfahan.12 Both stories,
however, to Rivadeneyra’s dismay, had very different
outcomes.
Once back in Madrid, Rivadeneyra gave a talk about Persia
before the Real Sociedad Geográfica [Royal Geographic
Society], of which he was a member, correspondent, and
secretary. Unfortunately, said society’s archives are not
accessible at present and it is not known for the moment
whether he ever mentioned Babism either in his talk13 or in his
correspondence.
Following his premature death, several tributes were paid to
the young diplomat. On March 28, 1882, Eduardo Saavedra,
president of the Sociedad Geográfica, gave a talk in memory of
his friend and colleague. In the middle of his eulogy, while
discussing Rivadeneyra’s trip to Persia, Saavedra interjected
the following:
… so as not to bore you with accounts dealing with
other sects, I will just mention the one inaugurated in
1852 by an obscure yet highly energetic and ardently
imaginative figure, who donned the sobriquet of Bab
or Door of Renewal, and who claimed to bring a new
Koran. No one disturbed him so long as his preaching

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
restricted itself to theological matters, but when it
began threatening the empire’s political and social
fabric, the Government became alarmed, ordered
savage persecutions, and was unable to quash either
him or the disturbances caused by his followers. In the
end, it had to turn to the assistance of a Christian
regiment hardly impressed by the false apostle’s
eloquence.14
One of Madrid’s leading newspapers, La Correspondencia
de España, reprinted Viaje al Interior de Persia [Journey Into
Persia] as a supplement, so that the references Rivadeneyra
made to Babism reached the public at large by way of various
printings between 1882 and 1883.15
His book became somewhat influential and helped to spread
beyond the usual circles news of the new religion. This is
demonstrated, for example, by the fact that in 1896, following
the Sháh of Persia’s assassination, numerous press articles
about Babism quoted Rivadeneyra. Even as late as 1908, one
author referred to Viaje al Interior de Persia as the first work
to have mentioned Babism in Spain.16
The Sháh Visits Europe
Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was the first Persian monarch to visit
Europe. He did so on three separate occasions: 1873, 1878, and
1889. The historic nature of his visits and, particularly, his and
his entourage’s exotic demeanor, captivated the European
press, especially in the United Kingdom, Austria, and France,
where the Sháh prolonged his stay in order to visit the
expositions and fairs being held there.17
The Carlist wars, to his regret, prevented the Sháh from
visiting Spain. The Spanish press, nevertheless, gave extensive
coverage to his European tour. Naturally, in discussing the
monarch’s biography or the situation in Persia, some
newspapers touched on the subject of Babism, recalling for the
most part the events of 1852.
Diario de Barcelona, for example, published on July 16, 1873,
a letter written in Paris on July 12 containing information

Chronicles of a Birth
about the Sháh. It concluded as follows: “He has a very affable
personality; he has not had to punish any of his subjects
following the Bábí insurrection.”18
Several days later this newspaper published the following:
In 1852, Nasser-ed Din nearly fell victim to an
assassination plot hatched by the Bábís, a Sufi sect of
Persian free thinkers and revolutionaries, who charge
that the Muhammadan clergy have distorted the tenets
of Islam and, in their greedy lust, have deceived the
Persian nation by interpreting the Koran literally and
not according to its spirit.
One day, as the king made his way on horseback toward
Chimran, at the foot of Mount Albourz, four
individuals of the Bábí sect awaited his approach by the
roadside and handed him a petition. The king,
unsuspecting, and led by his innate kindness, stopped
his horse and extended his hand to take the document,
whereupon the assassins rushed him, firing three shots
at point-blank range. Fortunately, the Shah turned
quickly and was only mildly injured. The assassins were
arrested and beheaded at the scene of the crime, and
their confessions resulted in horrible punishments
being meted out to the Bábí chiefs that had plotted the
conspiracy.
Secret societies have made the Shah’s personal safety a
cause for concern: in addition to Sufi and Bábí
conspiracies, he has had to do battle with Freemasonry,
which his Minister of State, Malcom [sic] Khan,
introduced into Persia.19
One Madrid newspaper, La Época, published the following
account of a military parade held in the Sháh’s honor:
The review [of the troops] in Longchamps has
impressed both the Asian prince and the French public,
who are witness to how the nation, thanks to law and
order, has lifted itself up in the last two years from the
greatest of catastrophes and is still today a great
nation. Mac-Mahon [sic] has acted with prudence,
bringing fresh life to imperial feasts and spectacles. He

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
has taken a great step toward reestablishing the
monarchy. Moreover, Nasser-Eddin would recall that
other grand spectacle in 1852 in Tehran, when, early in
his reign, the Bábí conspiracy sought to kill him and the
loyalty of his army saved him.20
La Justicia published the following on July 29, 1889:
Now that the public’s eyes are fixed with interest on the
Oriental sovereign, we take pleasure in reporting to our
readers some details related to this very important
figure.
Nass-ed-Dine, Shah of Persia, is a cold, determined,
and resolute man.
Some years ago, the Bábí fanatics had whipped up
Persia into a frenzy with their sermonizing. The Shah
squelched the unrest with typical Oriental zeal, but that
very harshness proved counterproductive and the
Bábís’ fanaticism only intensified.
Nass-ed-Dine was returning one day from the hunt — a
pastime he avidly enjoys — when Bábís took him by
surprise when he separated from his retinue. They held
his steed and with a pistol opened fire on the horseman.
The Shah, uninjured, and in sheer cold blood,
approached one of his attackers, felling him with one
savage thrust from his sword. To the other attacker he
gave a terrific blow with the hilt of his Kandjar, also
killing him on the spot.
The next minute he was proceeding on his interrupted
journey without betraying the slightest emotion.21
Emilia Pardo Bazán
The Exposition Universelle held in Paris in 1889, which
Násiri’d-Dín Sháh attended, attracted much of the European
public’s attention.

Chronicles of a Birth
One Spaniard that visited the fair was the famous writer and
intellectual Emilia Pardo Bazán (b. 1851, La Coruña, Spain — d.
1921, Madrid, Spain).
The author of nearly twenty novels and six hundred articles
and short stories, she was the editor in chief of Revista de
Galicia, Biblioteca de la Mujer, and Nuevo Teatro Crítico. Her
long literary career earned her the title Countess de Pardo
Bazán, an honor bestowed personally by King Alfonso XIII in
1908. From 1910 she served as Director of Public Education;
from 1916, as professor of literature at the Universidad Central
de Madrid. Though nominated on more than one occasion to
serve as a member of the Real Academia de la Lengua Española,
her membership was disallowed on account of her being a
woman. Today she is remembered as one of the preeminent
Spanish writers of the nineteenth century and as one of the
pioneers in the struggle for women’s emancipation. From
France she collaborated on series of articles for the journal La
España Moderna and the Argentine newspaper La Nación.
These letters, together with others composed in Germany, were
compiled in 1890 in a single volume under the title Por Francia
y Alemania [Dispatches from France and Germany].22
In Paris, she had the opportunity to meet with Násiri’d-Dín
Sháh personally, and she was moved by the experience to write a
letter, dated August 9, addressed, presumably, to the Buenos
Aires-based La Nación. The letter bore the rather blunt title Un
Diocleciano [A Diocletian (an allusion to Roman emperor
Gaius
Aurelius
Valerius
Diocletanius,
noted
for
his
persecution of Christians)].
The Countess’s letter opens as follows:
The Shah of Persia is the talk of the town in Paris… The
Shah, that is, Nasreddin, has that great city intoxicated
by his spell, and all that people think about is going to
see him, catching a glimpse of even his most trivial
activities, counting the diamonds on his crown, and
offering to wine and dine him with feasts, dinners,
performances, and diversions of every sort.
There are those who say that Paris’s enthusiasm for
Nasreddin is due to that inevitable and hush-hush

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
monarchical fascination so persistent in the Latin
republics. The Shah is a king for sure, a king with all the
usual trappings: the magnificence, power, solemnity,
and irresponsibility of a true monarch. Nasreddin can
chop off heads; populate his harem with virgins
uprooted from their parents’ homes, or wives snatched
from their husbands’ arms; embroider his horse’s
saddlery with precious stones and have his slave trailing
behind carrying a jug of ice-cold water so that the king
should not have to trouble himself by asking for a drink
in some café. Nasreddin’s subjects refer to him as
“King of kings” and “The Shadow of God,” and this is
what Paris sees. Paris: demolisher of Bastilles,
revolutionary, herald of freedom and equality. And
instead of exclaiming, as logic would dictate, “What
stupid fools these Persians are!,” Paris follows in their
footsteps and prostrates herself before Nasreddin, who
is nary a prodigy of culture, neither wisdom, neither
magnanimity, neither talent. Everyone that sees him
suffers the same impression: that of a vulgar, stout,
not very tall man, possessed of little majesty and
deprived of that constant and laudable affectation of
personal worth nowadays characteristic of monarchs
(Nasreddin would not even enter the Eiffel Tower’s
elevators). The sovereign of Persia possesses nothing,
then, to justify the febrile curiosity and ardent
sympathy that Paris has shown him.
Maintaining this sarcastic tone, she continues her letter
with a few paragraphs containing some anecdotes and
biographical items about the Sháh. The central thrust of her
letter then follows:
For although Nasreddin, with all of these familiar
details, will appear herein to be a simple and naïve
sovereign willing to educate himself, like the emperor of
Brazil, let us not fool ourselves: the story of his reign
contains a dark and bloody page calling to mind the
annals of a decadent Rome during the persecutions. In
1843, five years before the young Nasreddin assumed
the throne, a religious sect called Babism, founded by a
Persian from Eschiraz named Mirza-Ali Mahomet,

Chronicles of a Birth
allegedly a descendant of Muhammad’s, came into
being and swept through Persia. The new religion,
theologically speaking, was a sort of reform movement
in the pantheistic sense; socially speaking, it was gentle,
charity-oriented, progressive, and humane, especially
in comparison with the religion it sought to
substitute. Its tenets included — and still include, since
Persia is full of Bábís — the inviolability of one’s home
and correspondence, cordiality in one’s relations,
respect for women and full recognition of their rights,
the elimination of corporal punishment in education,
nonviolence, compassion, hospitality, monogamy,
trade, honest work as a life principle, and a multitude
of ideas that, truth be told, seem very good, wise, and
practical, and that are at heart essentially Christian.
Babism’s doctrines of loving kindness, enlightenment,
and fairness spread in such a manner that the Shah was
soon trembling in his throne as he foresaw an
approaching social revolution that would probably be
the ruin of his all-embracing and despotic power and
of the age-old and barbaric establishment of his States.
At once he launched a bitter and terrible campaign of
persecution against the Bábís. They were rounded up
like beasts, surrounded in areas where they had
established strongholds, and put to the sword; women
and children under the age of fourteen were
eviscerated. Believers displayed heroism, steadfastness,
and the faith of martyrs. Their chief, Mirza-Ali, was
paraded nude through the streets, bound by a rope,
while mobs hurled mud, stones, and spit at him; later
they hung him on a high wall and, from below, finished
him off in a hail of bullets, along with a young and
faithful disciple that they hung next to him as he
professed his faith out loud. Such brutality upset and
riled the Bábís, in spite of their meekness, and three
from among their ranks resolved to kill Nasreddin. The
murder plot against the king was foiled, and all three
conspirators were subjected to incredible and savage
torture. One woman, a priestess of the new sect, was
burned alive.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
A lugubrious procession made its way through the
streets of Tehran: scores of Bábí children and women,
surrounded by their executioners, paraded by, the
entire flesh on their bodies ripped to shreds and lighted
candles thrust into each of their wounds. The
executioner’s would goad them on with their whips,
and the victims, instead of moaning, would sing in
unison their hymn: “We come from God, and unto God
do we return.” Every so often, a child would collapse,
dead at last, free and happy. The mothers would
continue their march, treading over their children’s
lifeless bodies. One father’s two sons had their throats
slit atop his breast. Later their heads were hung on
stakes. Such was the bloodbath that brought Persian
Babism to its knees. But clandestinely, and through the
fire and zeal that persecution engenders, the sect has
continued to gain converts; it has gone underground;
it possesses potential both mysterious and powerful;
and would that the egotistic policies of the European
states not prefer Muhammadan backwardness over
more civilizing, beneficent, and milder doctrines, the
Shah would find himself dethroned when he least
expected it and the bulk of the Persian empire would be
Bábí.
In wining and dining the Diocletian of Iran, Paris
operates according to her pragmatic interests; she
could care less about humanity’s interests. Why is it
that religious tolerance, which is de rigueur the world
over, which is invoked against Catholicism in order to
protect impure rites and discarded and vain beliefs,
can not become a fact of life in Persia, where an idea
whose social ramifications portend greater benefits
than Muhammadanism is being forced to go
underground like some outlaw, and, as such, to face
persecution and extermination? No doubt the French
will hint at our own Inquisition (which for over 150
years was as imaginary as the boogeyman used to
frighten children) and continue to portray us as
Torquemadas who burn at the stake every living
creature. The hecatombs of Persia will not prevent the
Parisian press from depicting Nasreddin as a kind,

Chronicles of a Birth
paternal roi d’Yvetot figure. Material advancements —
telegraphs, roads, schools, new and improved firearms
— are all fine and good; but does not moral
advancement, an improvement of habits that Babism,
in lieu of Christianity, would have brought to Persia,
stand for anything? And could any man be called
civilized, in the strict sense of the word, who decrees
such tortures and fails to hear in the shadows of night,
gripped by the fear of his own remorse, the groaning of
scalded and broken children, or the youth’s final gasp
as his throat is slit open atop his own father’s breast?
After these gripping ruminations, Emilia Pardo Bazán
focuses anew on personal aspects of the Sháh’s life — his
relationship with women, his opulence, his physical appearance,
etc. — and then brings to a close her letter as follows:
As for the Shah, cursed be the curiosity he inspires in
me. Were it not for the atrocities committed against
the Bábís, I would indulge him. But in the end,
Nasreddin is a tyrant; and every tyrant, when he exerts
his tyranny against that divine ether which we call an
idea, and persecutes souls by torturing bodies, is
odious and loathsome. Someone in the crowd yells,
“Long live the Shah!,” and I recall those gloom-filled
victims, those hapless souls, outlawed for wanting to
give to Asia a better, gentler, more humane nation…
And I am forced to appeal to reason so as not to
betray any displeasure, which would no doubt astonish
these people, so captivated that a Spanish commoner
would turn out to see ‘the darling of Persia.’
Por Francia y Alemnia enjoyed several reprintings, and, in
1891, a Mexican newspaper, El Siglo Diez y Nueve, published it
as a supplement.23 It has been impossible to determine to date
in which issue of La Nación this letter was published.
It would not be the last time, however, that Emilia Pardo
Bazán mentioned Babism. It happened again — as we shall see
on another occasion — in 1899, this time as part of one of her
fictional stories.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Other Authors
During the years that this article focuses on, other authors
also mentioned Babism in their writings.
Francisco García Ayuso (b. 1815, Segovia, Spain — d. 1897,
Madrid, Spain), for example, was a noted Orientalist and
Spanish philologist who specialized in Semitic and Indo-
European languages. He completed his higher education in
Munich under the wings of such eminent Orientalists of the
time as Müller, Haug, Ethé, Haneberg, etc.
As a scholar, he at various times held chairs in the history of
philosophy, metaphysics, Greek, Sanskrit, world history, and
German.
As a writer, he was famous for, among other works, El
estudio de la filología en su relación con el sanskrit [The Study
of Philology in Relation to Sanskrit] (Madrid) and Ensayo
crítico de gramática comparada de los idiomas indo-europeos
[A Critical Essay on the Comparative Grammar of Indo-
European
Languages]
(Madrid),
along
with
numerous
translations.
In 1876, he published Irán o del Indo al Tigris [Iran or From
the Indus to the Tigris]24, in which, in his narrative of the
history of Persia, García closed the book with a nearly five-page
summary of Bábí history and doctrine. All of his source
material is taken from Count Gobineau’s Les Religions et les
Philosophies dans l’Asie Centrale.
It is worth mentioning that García Ayuso founded and
directed a language academy in Madrid in which Persian and
other languages were taught. It is more than likely that
Rivadeneyra, who we discussed earlier, and who was a personal
friend of García’s, learned the rudiments of Persian in his
academy.
Also in 1876, in a work titled La Cuestión de Oriente [On the
Question of the Orient]25, Emilio Castelar (b. 1832, Cádiz,
Spain — d. 1899, San Pedro del Pinatar, Spain), briefly
mentions Babism in the chapter titled Una Religión Decadente
[A Religion in Decline], in which he is critical of Islam and its

Chronicles of a Birth
apologists and defenders in Europe. He writes in a jocular
tone:
Our continent produces commentators of dogmas
only; but the Asian continent, in its ingenuity and
essence,
produces
the
dogmas
themselves.
This
exuberance of the Asiatic intellect continues unabated.
Whereas here we sacrifice our lives in pursuit of
establishing States or to fight for our wages, over there
they fight and sacrifice themselves in pursuit of
religious
beliefs
and
metaphysical
abstractions.
Penitents still pray in self-imposed exile, prophets
preach in the wilderness, sons of God descend from the
heavens, and idealism’s martyrs irrigate and fertilize
the earth with their blood. The founder of Babism in
Persia finds neither judges nor executioners among the
Muslims, and he would not have died a martyr’s death
had not Nestorian fanatics killed him. There, from
amid the founders of religions, quickly spreads the
poetic genius that transports them away from their
mundane sorrows to deify them in the heavens.26
The reference in itself contains little of value, but it acquires
relevance when we stop to consider that it was written by one
of Spain’s most notable nineteenth century politicians.
Emilio Castelar held the chair in history at the Universidad
Central de Madrid, and he was the founder and director of the
republican newspaper La Democracia. In 1869, he was elected
to Spain’s Parliamant as a deputy and, with the establishment
of the republic, was appointed Minister of State, a position he
held until being elected President of the Government. He was
the last president of the first Spanish republic. Following the
establishment of the monarchy and an exile lasting several
years, he returned to political life as a Parliamentary deputy.
In addition, Castelar authored numerous historical essays,
novels, and newspaper articles, and was a member of the Real
Academia de la Lengua Española.
The paragraph quoted above was republished inside an
article that Castelar had published in December 1895 as part of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
a section he collaborated on regularly for the journal La España
Moderna.27
Another author worth mentioning in this brief summary is
Joan Montserrat i Archs (b. 1895, Barcelona(?), Spain), a
Catalonian poet and engineer who, in 1882, mentioned the Báb
in a pull-out section entitled El Mundo Ilustrado,28 describing
him as “the new Muslim Luther.” His brief summary of Babism,
once again, is based on Gobineau’s account.
We know little about this man beyond that, despite the
political obstacles that the nineteenth century presented him,
he was a determined author in prose and poetry in the
Catalonian tongue.
Reference Works
In another installment we mentioned two encyclopedias that
early on made mention of Babism in Spain: La Enciclopedia
Moderna (1854) and Diccionario Universal (1876).
During the decades this article focuses on, the number of
reference works containing any mention of the new religion
multiplied considerably. Volume 3 (published in 1888) of El
Diccionario Enciclopédico Hispano-Americano, for example,
contained entries for “Báb,” “Babism,” and “Bábí,” the first
two of which had rather lengthy articles. Volume 15 (published
in 1894) mentions Babism again, this time as part of a
description of Persian history.
It is difficult to find a dictionary or encyclopedia published
in that time frame that did not contain entries for “Babism” or
“Bábí,” although no work acquired the prestige and popularity
accorded the Diccionario Enciclopédico.
* * *
In 1896, Násiri’d-Dín Sháh was assassinated. The king’s
murder received extensive coverage in the Spanish press, as it
did in other parts of the world. The unjust accusations leveled
against the Bábís (Bahá’ís) for that crime allowed equally
extensive press coverage of the new religion comparable only to

Chronicles of a Birth
— albeit to a much lesser degree — that which attended the
events of 1852.
This topic will be explored in a future installment.

NOTES
1 La Revista Europea (Madrid) was a publication of the Ateneo Popular de
Madrid. It managed to draw into its ranks a good number of writers
representative of the intellectual and political vanguard of the time.
2 See Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions in Spain, (1876-
1895), p. 71, in Lights of ‘Irfán, Vol. VII.
3 La Revista Europea (Madrid), No. 10; May 3, 1874; p. 298.
4 Elder son of Spanish publisher Manuel Rivadeneyra, editor in chief of
the literary corpus titled Biblioteca de Autores Españoles [Library of
Spanish Authors] (BAC). He completed his studies in Germany, England,
Belgium, and Paris. There is a letter of his dated December 21, 1863,
addressed to Isabel II, in which he requests to be considered for the
“joven de lenguas” (translator’s apprentice) post anywhere in the
Middle East. The biographical data cited are taken from his personnel
file from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Archives (File P 213) and from
an article published after his death by Ramón Mesonero Romanos in
La Correspondencia de España (Madrid) on July 24, 1882.
5 Adolfo Rivadeneyra, Viaje de Ceilán a Damasco, Madrid: Printed and
Stereotyped by M. Rivadeneyra, 1871.
6 Adolfo Rivadeneyra, Viaje al Interior de Persia, Barcelona: Aribau, 1880.
7 Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 236-237.
8 Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 244-245.
9 Ibid., Vol. I, p. 245.
10 Ibid., Vol. I, p. 247.
11 Ibid., Vol. III, p. 155.
12 See Mojan Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne,
Oxford: George Ronald, 1987, pp. 23-24.
13 The speech was given on April 26, 1876. The society’s newsletter
announced on several occasions that it would publish it, but it was
never published, probably because the detailed chronicle of his journey
had already been published in the meantime.
14 Boletín de la Sociedad Geográfica de Madrid, 1882, Vol. XII, p. 503.
15 Specifically, in its issues dated August 15 and 16, September 7, October
19, and November 3, 1882, and January 5, February 8 and 18, 1883.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

16 Rafael Urbano, Bábísmo y Behaismo, Sophia, Vol. 17, No. 1; January 7,
1908.
17 For a report penned by the Sháh himself about his journey, see The
Diary of H. M. The Shah of Persia during his tour through Europe in
A.D. 1873. A verbatim translation. Murray, London, 1874.
18 Diario de Barcelona; July 7, 1873; p. 7287.
19 Diario de Barcelona; July 20, 1873; p. 7410.
20 La Época (Madrid); July 17, 1873; p. 2.
21 La Justicia (Madrid); July 29, 1873; p. 2. El Diluvio (Barcelona) published
the exact same article in its August 7 issue.
22 Madrid, La España Editorial, 1890.
23 The references to Bábísm were published in El Siglo Diez y Nueve
(México) on January 8 and 9, and November 2, 1891.
24 Irán o Del Indo al Tigris : descripción geográfica de los países iranio:
Afghanistan, Beluchistan, Persia y Armenia. Madrid: Imp. de Medina y
Navarro,
1876.
Retrieved
from
http://www.bne.es/cgi-
bin/wsirtex?FOR=WBNBIBT4&VIS=W01BIMO&FMT=WBNARIA4&ITE
=0004701021645&ISN=00261808&TOT=044&NUM=024
25 La Cuestión de Oriente. Madrid: Oficinas de la Ilustración Española y
Americana, 1876.
26 Ibid., p. 181.
27 La España Moderna, December 1895; Vol. 7, No. 84; p. 161.
28 El Mundo Ilustrado, 1882, Vol. 4, cuaderno 101, segunda serie.


Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in
Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan*
While working on a Russian translation from the original
Persian of Siyyid Kázim’s treatise “Usul-i-‘Aqá’id” (“The Basic
Principles of Belief”),1 I noticed certain correspondences
between the messianic prophecy Siyyid Kázim quotes and the
time periods, dates and names related to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Faiths symbolically expressed. The prophecy in question is
actually a passage within a broader account of eschatological
events described in Chapter 5 of Siyyid Kázim’s treatise.2
When I realized that this whole chapter was in fact Siyyid
Kázim’s Persian translation of the corresponding part
(Chapter 5) of Shaykh Ahmad’s “Hayát al-Nafs” (“The Life of
the Soul”) — for some miraculous reason incorporated into
Siyyid Kázim’s work — I turned my attention to Shaykh
Ahmad’s “Hayát al-Nafs” in Arabic.3 Studying this part of the
“Hayát al-Nafs” only reinforced my previous impression of the
correspondences between the prophecy concerned and Bábí and
Bahá’í history, as such correspondences became even more
apparent to me in the Arabic text. The sources for this study
are from the collection of the St. Petersburg Institute of
Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian Academy of Sciences (“the
Hayát al-Nafs”, manuscripts: А 706, B 4276, B 1895,4 its Persian
translation by Siyyid Kázim, lithograph: Pk 213, and the “Usul-
i-’Aqá’id,” lithograph: Ps II 157).5
The present writer is well aware of the skeptical attitude of
some people, especially scholars, towards prophecy. By sharing

* St. Petersburg Institute of Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian Academy
of Sciences

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
my ideas, I have not the least intention of trying to convince
skeptics of the significance of prophecy, and even less so of the
validity of my interpretations. This is only an attempt to trace
and highlight correspondences which, in my view, exist between
the dates and facts symbolically referred to in the prophecy and
the events of Bábí and Bahá’í history. Obviously, the suggested
interpretation is not authoritative.
Since the language of prophecy is symbolic, it would be
useful to first consider its characteristics. Though in the works
available to me this language is mostly treated in relation to
revealed Scripture, it is relevant to approach it as a general
phenomenon, assuming that its basic features must apply to
the
symbolic
language
of
traditions
as
well.
The
mathematician-philosopher William S. Hatcher defines it as a
“metaphorical, extramathematical language.”6 Concerning the
differences between this language and the language of science,
he writes:
The language of science is deliberately linear —
eschewing metaphor and multiple meaning — and
minimalist — accepting the objective existence of only
those
nonobservables
strictly
necessary
to
an
explanation of observable configurations (which, as it
turns out, is still quite a bit). Thus, the strengths of
science are clarity, precision, and applicability
(practicality). Its limitations derive primarily from its
partialness (specialization, fragmentation), relative
incomple-teness, and general lack of a global vision…
In contrast to the language of science, the language of
revelation is nonlinear (extensive use of metaphor and
multiple meaning) and maximalist (as rich as possible,
freely referring to nonobservables)... Thus, the
strengths of revelation are its adequacy and its
completeness, but its limitations (from the human
point of view) lie in its complexity and the consequent
frequent lack of an obvious linear meaning for a given
portion of the revelatory text. The student of
revelation must be prepared to struggle to understand
the different levels of meaning enfolded in the
revelation.7

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Hatcher amplifies his analysis of these differences by the
following point:
Mathematical language puts a premium on exactness
and precision of expression. Ideally, a mathematical
language is totally formalizable in such manner that
every grammatically well-formed expression has only
one logical meaning. In this sense, mathematical
language is linear: text (syntax) is already linear, and if
we avoid metaphor and multiple meaning in our
lexicon, then our semantics will also be linear. In this
case, each syntactical sign is its own meaning. It is
precisely such totally linearized languages that are used,
for example, in computer programming.8
To summarize Hatcher’s viewpoint: the language of science
in which every expression or sign has only one logical meaning
is linear. It is characterized by clarity and precision. On the
contrary, symbolic language, in which an expression has
multiple meaning, is non-linear. It is characterized by
metaphor and complexity. It would be relevant to add that one
of the definitions of the term “linear” is “having only one
dimension.” Regarding problems of interpreting the symbolic
language of prophecy Michael Sours says the following:
Some people argue that prophecies must be fulfilled
exactly in every detail, but examples of prophetic
fulfillment in the Bible show that this is not the case…
This is not to say that the details of prophecy are not
important. Sometimes these details raise issues that
help clarify the nature of fulfillment, but in many
instances the details are intended to make the message
relevant to the time when the prophecy was first
revealed…
In the Book of Certitude, Bahá’u’lláh teaches that
Scripture is written in two kinds of language, one
‘unconcealed and unveiled’ so ‘that it may be a guiding
lamp and a beaconing lamp’ and another that is ‘veiled
and concealed, so that whatever lieth hidden in the
heart of the malevolent may be made manifest and their
innermost being be disclosed’...9

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
To perceive the concealed meaning of prophecy one
must acknowledge the symbolic nature and spiritual
significance of the words used. If prophecy is
interpreted literally, and it is imagined that such events
will literally happen, then one may expect a truly
extraordinary sign and proof that requires little or no
spiritual discernment to recognize and acknowledge
it.10
On the multiple meaning of prophecy Sours says:
…some prophecies may be both literal and symbolic. In
most cases, however, prophecy is symbolic…Many
verses in Scripture can have several meanings. In
connection with the interpretation of Scripture and
sacred traditions, Bahá’u’lláh cites a saying of Imám
Sádiq…: ‘We speak one word, and by it we intend one
and seventy meanings’…11 Nevertheless, although there
may be many meanings in a verse of Scripture, it is
important not to confuse significant meanings with
any meaning.12
A good example of how the days referred to in the context of
the same prophecy may have to be reckoned differently is best
illustrated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s interpretation of a Zoroastrian
prophecy of which Shoghi Effendi wrote:
As a further testimony to the greatness of the
Revelation identified with Bahá’u’lláh may be cited the
following extracts from a Tablet addressed by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá to an eminent Zoroastrian follower of the Faith:
“Thou hadst written that in the sacred books of the
followers of Zoroaster it is written that in the latter
days, in three separate Dispensations, the sun must
needs be brought to a standstill. In the first
Dispensation, it is predicted, the sun will remain
motionless for ten days; in the second for twice that
time; in the third for no less than one whole month. The
interpretation of this prophecy is this: the first
Dispensation to which it refers is the Muhammadan
Dispensation during which the Sun of Truth stood still
for ten days. Each day is reckoned as one century. The
Muhammadan Dispensation must have, therefore,

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
lasted no less than one thousand years, which is
precisely the period that has elapsed from the setting of
the Star of the Imamate to the advent of the
Dispensation proclaimed by the Báb. The second
Dispensation referred to in this prophecy is the one
inaugurated by the Báb Himself, which began in the
year 1260 AH and was brought to a close in the year
1280 AH As to the third Dispensation — the Revelation
proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh — inasmuch as the Sun of
Truth when attaining that station shineth in the
plenitude of its meridian splendor its duration hath
been fixed for a period of one whole month, which is
the maximum time taken by the sun to pass through a
sign of the Zodiac. From this thou canst imagine the
magnitude of the Bahá’í cycle — a cycle that must
extend over a period of at least five hundred thousand
years.13
In a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the
National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada,
the differentiated method of interpreting time periods
employed for this prophecy is explained in the following way:
Concerning the passage in the Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh in which the Guardian quotes ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá's interpretation of the prophecy referring to the
times when the sun would stand still in the heavens, he
wishes me to explain that the days referred to in this
prophecy have to be reckoned differently. In the
Scripture of various religions there are to be found
frequent references to days, but these have been
considered as indicating different period of time, as
for instance in the Qur’án a day is reckoned as one
thousand years. The first ten days in the above
mentioned prophecy represent each a century, making
thus a total of one thousand lunar years. As to the
twenty days referring to the Bábí Dispensation each of
them represents only one lunar year, the total of twenty
years marking the duration of the Revelation of the
Báb. The thirty days in the last dispensation should not
be reckoned numerically, but should be considered as
symbolizing the incomparable greatness of the Bahá’í

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Revelation which, though not final is none-the-less thus
far the fullest revelation of God to man. From a
physical point of view, the thirty days represent the
maximum time takes by the sun to pass through a sign
of the zodiac. They thus represent a culminating point
in the evolution of this star. So also from a spiritual
standpoint these thirty days should be viewed as
indicating the highest, though not the final stage in the
spiritual evolution of mankind.14
The above interpretation is based on three different
approaches to the calculation of days within the same prophecy
and clearly indicates that interpretation does not necessarily
require a uniform approach to all parts of a text. The
application of different systems of reckoning should not be
confused with the inconsistency of method detracting from its
validity. Rather, it should be seen as a differentiated approach.
Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kázim present the messianic
prophecy to be considered here in relation to the eschatological
concept of “return” (raj‘a/raj‘at), traditionally understood in
Shi’ih Islam as the return of the Prophet Muhammad and the
twelve Imáms, including the “Hidden Imám,” known as the
Qá’im. The Bahá’í notion of the “return” is best expounded by
the Prophet-Founder of the Bahá’í Faith in His Book of
Certitude:
Strive therefore to comprehend the meaning of “return”
which hath been so explicitly revealed in the Qur'án
itself, and which none hath as yet understood. What
sayest thou? If thou sayest that Muhammad was the
“return” of the Prophets of old, as is witnessed by this
verse, His Companions must likewise be the “return” of
the bygone Companions, even as the “return” of the
former people is clearly attested by the text of the
above-mentioned verses…
Wherefore, should one of these Manifestations of
Holiness proclaim saying: “I am the return of all the
Prophets,” He verily speaketh the truth. In like manner,
in every subsequent Revelation, the return of the
former Revelation is a fact, the truth of which is firmly
established. Inasmuch as the return of the Prophets of

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
God, as attested by verses and traditions, hath been
conclusively demonstrated, the return of their chosen
ones also is therefore definitely proven…
Therefore, those who in every subsequent Dispensation
preceded the rest of mankind in embracing the Faith of
God, who quaffed the clear waters of knowledge at the
hand of the divine Beauty, and attained the loftiest
summits of faith and certitude, these can be regarded,
in name, in reality, in deeds, in words, and in rank, as
the “return” of those who in a former Dispensation had
achieved similar distinctions…
From these statements therefore it hath been made
evident and manifest that should a Soul in the “End
that knoweth no end” be made manifest, and arise to
proclaim and uphold a Cause which in “the Beginning
that hath no beginning” another Soul had proclaimed
and upheld, it can be truly declared of Him Who is the
Last and of Him Who was the First that they are one
and the same, inasmuch as both are the Exponents of
one and the same Cause…15
Thus, the “return” in the Bahá’í Faith is understood
allegorically. Bahá’u’lláh is identified with the Imám Husayn
“returned,” not in the sense of His being the return of the same
person.16 Interestingly, there is even a correspondence between
their names. Bahá’u’lláh’s name is Husayn-‘Alí, while that of
Imám Husayn was Husayn b. ‘Alí. Accordingly, the Báb, whose
name was ‘Alí-Muhammad, is identified with the Qá’im.17
The prophecy we are going to discuss falls into the category
of eschatological accounts which provide clues to the time
frame within which the events relating to the messianic
figure/figures are going to happen as well as to the
circumstances of these events. Sours refers to such prophecies
in the following passage:
Many prophecies, rather than offering direct and
explicit evidence that Bahá’u’lláh is a Manifestation of
God, provide clues relating to the circumstances of His
life and the age in which He was destined to appear. In
many instances, it is only by first recognizing the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
station of a Manifestation that one realizes that He
has fulfilled prophecies.18
Let us now consider the first portion of the prophecy in
question, bearing in mind that it is expressed in a symbolic
non-linear language. Non-linear implies “having more than one
dimension” and “not (arranged) in a straight line,” i.e., it
conveys multiple meanings and the described events do not
unfold sequentially. All the dates and time periods in the
prophecy are calculated in lunar years. Let me start by quoting
the two slightly differing versions of Siyyid Kázim’s Persian
translation one of which is incorporated into his “Usul-i-
Aqá’id” as mentioned above:
ﻩﻑﺕ ﺱﺍﻝ...ﻡﺩﺓ ﻡﻝﮎﺵ  ﺏﺍﺵﺩ ﻝﮎﻥ ﺡﻕﺕﻉﺍﻝﯼ ﺏﻝﻥﺩ ﮎﻥﺩ ﺭﻭﺯﻭ ﺵﺏ ﺭﺍ
ﺕﺍﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﯼﮎﺱﺍﻝ ﺏﻕﺩﺭ ﺩﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺵﻭﺩ ﺯﯼﺭﺍ ﮎﻩ ﺡﻕﺕﻉﺍﻝﯼ ﺍﻡﺭﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﻑﻝﮎ ﺭﺍ
ﮎﻩ ﺱﺭﻉﺕ ﻥﮎﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺏﻁﯼ ﻡﯼﺵﻭﺩ ﺡﺭﮎﺕ ﻑﻝﮎ ﺩﺭ ﺁﻥ ﺱﺍﻝﻩﺍ ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﻡﺩﺕ
ﻩﻑﺕﺍﺩ ﺱﺍﻝﻡﻝﮎﺵ  ﺍﺯ ﺱﺍﻝﻩﺍﯼ ﻡﻉﺭﻭﻑ ﺩﺭ ﺯﻡﺍﻥ ﻡﺍ ﺵﻭﺩ ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﭖﻥﺝﺍﻩ ﻭ
ﺍﺯ ﺡﮎﻭﻡﺕ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﺏﮎﺫﺭﺩ ﺥﺭﻭﺝ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩﻥﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ  ﺱﯼّﺩﻥﺍ
ﻭ ﻡﻭﻝﺍﻥﺍ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﺏﺍ ﻩﻑﺕﺍﺩ ﻭ ﺩﻭ ﻥﻑﺭ ﺍﺯ ﺵﻩﺩﺍﯼ ﮎﺭﺏﻝﺍ ﻭ ﺏﺍ
ﻡﻝﺍﯼﮎﻩ...ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﻩﻑﺕﺍﺩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺏﮎﺫﺭﺩ ﺵﻩﯼﺩ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﻕﺍﯼﻡ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ
ﺍﻝﺱﻝﻡ ﺭﺍ ﺯﻥﯼ...ﺏﺝﺍﻭﻥ ﺍﺯ ﺱﻥﮎ ﺏﺭﺏﺍﻝﺍﯼ ﺏﺍﻡ ﻡﯼ ﺍﯼﺱﺕﺩ ﻭ ﭺﻭﻥ ﺁﻥ
ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺍﺯ ﺁﻥﮎﻭﭺﻩ ﻉﺏﻭﺭ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﺁﻥ ﻡﻝﻉﻭﻥﻩ ﺱﻥﮎ ﺭﺍ ﻑﺭﻭ ﻡﯼﺁﻭﺭﺩ ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ
ﺁﻥ  ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺍﺯ ﻉﺍﻝﻡ ﻑﻥﺍ ﺍﺭﺕﺡﺍﻝ ﻑﺭﻡﺍﯼﺩ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﻡ
ﺍﻭﺭﺍ ﺕﺝﻩﯼﺯ ﻑﺭﻡﻭﺩﻩ ﭖﺱ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﺏﺍﻡﺭ ﺵﻭﺩ... ]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱ ﺩﺭ ﺕﺭﺝﻡﮤ
[ﻑﺍﺭﺱﯼ ﺍﺯ ﺱﯼﺩ ﮎﺍﻅﻡ ﺭﺵﺕﯼ

...ﻡﺩﺕ ﻡﻝﮎﺵ ﻩﻑﺕ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺏﺍﺵﺩ ﻝﯼﮎﻥ ﺡﻕ ﺕﻉﺍﻝﯼ ﺏﻝﻥﺩ ﮎﻥﺩ ﺭﻭﺯ ﺵﺏ ﺭﺍ ﺕﺍ
ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﯼﮎﺱﺍﻝ ﺏﻕﺩﺭ ﺩﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﻡﯼﺵﻭﺩ ﺯﯼﺭﺍ ﮎﻩ ﺡﻕ ﺕﻉﺍﻝﯼ ﺍﻡﺭ  ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ
ﻑﻝﮎﺭﺍ ﮎﻩ ﺱﺭﻉﺕ ﻥﮎﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺏﻁﯼ ﻡﯼﺵﻭﺩ ﺡﺭﮎﺕ ﻑﻝﮎ ﺩﺭﺁﻥﺱﺍﻝﻩﺍ ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ
ﻡﺩﺕ ﻡﻝﮎﺵ ﻩﻑﺕﺍﺩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺍﺯ ﺱﺍﻝﻩﺍﯼ ﻡﻉﺭﻭﻑ ﺩﺭ ﺯﻡﺍﻥ ﻡﺍ ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﭖﻥﺝﺍﻩ ﻭ ﻥﻩ
ﺱﺍﻝ ﺍﺯ ﺡﮎﻭﻡﺕ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺏﮎﺫﺭﺩ ﺥﺭﻭﺝ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﻡﻭﻝﯼﻥﺍ ﻭ
ﺱﯼﺩﻥﺍ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺏﺍ ﻩﻑﺕﺍﺩ ﻭ ﺩﻭ ﻥﻑﺭ ﺍﺯ ﺵﻩﺩﺍﯼ ﮎﺭﺏﻝﺍ ﻭ ﺏﺍ
ﻡﻝ ﺍﺉﮎﻩ...ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﻩﻑﺕﺍﺩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺏﮎﺫﺭﺩ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺭﺍ ﺵﻩﯼﺩ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ
ﺯﻥﯼ ...ﺏﻩ ﻩﺍﻭﻥﯼ ﺍﺯ ﺱﻥﮎ ﺏﺭ ﺏﺍﻝﺍﯼ ﺏﺍﻡ ﻡﯼ ﺍﯼﺱﺕﺩ ﭺﻭﻥ ﺁﻥ ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺍﺯ ﺁﻥ
ﮎﻭﭺﻩ ﻉﺏﻭﺭ ﻑﺭﻡﺍﯼﺩ ﺁﻥﺱﻥﮎ ﺭﺍ ﻑﺭﻭ ﻡﯼﺁﻭﺭﺩ ﻭ ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﺁﻥ ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺍﺯ ﻉﺍﻝﻡ
ﻑﻥﺍ ﺍﺭﺕﺡﺍﻝ ﻑﺭﻡﺍﯼﺩ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺍﻭﺭﺍ ﺕﺝﻩﯼﺭ ﻑﺭﻡﻭﺩﻩ
ﭖ .ﺱ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﺏﺍﻡﺭ ﺵﻭﺩ...]ﺍﺹﻭﻝ ﻉﻕﺍﯼﺩ ﺍﺯ ﺱﯼﺩ ﮎﺍﻅﻡ ﺭﺵﺕﯼ، ﺹ117]
The duration of His kingdom will be seven years. But
the True and Exalted [God] will prolong days and
nights so that a year will become equal to ten years.
Because the True and Exalted [God] will command the

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
sphere[s] not to move fast. And the movement of the
sphere[s] will slow down in those years so that the
duration of His kingdom will become seventy years
counting by the years known in our time. Finally, when
fifty nine years pass from the reign of His holiness the
Qá’im, may peace be upon Him, our Lord and our
Master Husayn (lit.: the Husayn), may peace be upon
Him, will arise with the seventy two martyrs of Karbila
and with angels…Thus, when seventy years pass a
woman…will martyr His holiness the Qá’im, may peace
be upon Him… She will stand on a roof with a mortar
of stone and as that Noble person passes by that street
that cursed woman will throw that stone down [on
Him]. Consequently, when that Noble person departs
from [this] perishable world His holiness imám
Husayn, may peace be upon Him, having set up His
burial arrangements, will then rise for the Cause.19
Now I will quote the corresponding part of the Hayát al-
Nafs in the original Arabic from the three manuscripts
available in the collection of the St. Petersburg Institute of
Oriental Manuscripts, which have minor and insignificant
variations:
...ﻡﺩّﺓ ﻡﻝﮎﻩ ﺱﺏﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﯼﻁﻭّﻝ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺍﻝﺍﯼّﺍﻡ ﻭ ﺍﻝﻝّﯼﺍﻝﯼ ﺡﺕﯼ ﺕﮎﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﺱّﻥﺓ
ﺏﻕﺩﺭ ﻉﺵﺭ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﻝﺍﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺱﺏﺡﺍﻥﻩ ﯼﺃﻡﺭ ﺍﻝﻑﻝﮎ ﺏﺍﻝّﻝﺏﻭﺙ ﻑﺕﮎﻭﻥ ﻡﺩّﺓ
ﻡﻥ ﻩﺫﺓﺱﺏﻉﯼﻥ ﺱﻥّﺓﻡﻝﮎﻩ  ﺍﻝﺱّﻥﯼﻥ ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﻡﺽﯼ ﺕﺱﻉ ﻭ ﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥ
ﺱﻥّﺓ ﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ  ﻉ...ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﺕﻡﺕ ﺍﻝﺱّﺏﻉﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﺱّﻥﺓ ﯼﻡﯼﺕ ﺍﻝﺡﺝّﺓ
ﻑﺕﻕﺕﻝﻩ ﺍﻡﺭﺀﺓ ﻡﻥ ﺏﻥﯼ ﺕﻡﯼﻡ...ﺏﺝﺍﻭﻥ ﺹﺥﺭ ﻡﻥ ﻑﻭﻕ ﺱﻁﺡ ﻭ ﻩﻭﻡﺕﺝﺍﻭﺯ ﻑﯼ
...ﺍﻝﻁﺭﯼﻕ ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﻡﺍﺕ ﺕﻭﻝﯼ ﺕﺝﻩﯼﺯﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉ ﺙﻡّ ﺕﻕﻭﻡ ﺏﺍﻝﺃﻡﺭ
[]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱMS: А 706. P. 17/а
The duration of His kingdom is seven years. God
prolongs the days and nights that a year (lit. the year)
may become equal to ten years. Because God, may He
be praised, commands the sphere[s] to slow down (lit.:
tarry). Thus the duration of His kingdom [will be]
seventy years [counting] by these years. And when fifty
nine years pass/elapse Husayn, may peace be upon
Him, will come forth… So, when the seventy years are
completed a woman from the Baní-Tamím murders the
Proof [of God], she kills Him…with a mortar of stone

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
from a rooftop as he passes along/crosses the road.
And when He dies Husayn, may peace be upon Him,
will set up His burial arrangements. After that
[Husayn] will rise for the Cause…
Of special note is the fact that the two other manuscripts are
even more specific. They both have “from/since them” referring
to the “seventy years”:
...ﻡﺩﺓ ﻡﻝﮎﻩ ﺱﺏﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﯼﻁﻭﻝ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺍﻝﺍﯼّﺍﻡ ﻭ ﺍﻝﻝّﯼﺍﻝﯼ ﺡﺕّﯼ ﺕﮎﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﺱﻥّﺓ
ﺏﻕﺩﺭ ﻉﺵﺭ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﻝﺍﻥّ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺱﺏﺡﺍﻥﻩ ﯼﺍﻡﺭ ﺍﻝﻑﻝﮎ ﻝﻝﺏﻭﺙ ﻑﺕﮎﻭﻥ ﻡﺩﺓ
ﺱﺏﻉﯼﻥ ﺱﻥّﺓﻡﻝﮎﻩ  ﻡﻥ ﻩﺫﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻥﯼﻥ ﻡﻥﻩﺍﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﻡﺽﯼ  ﺕﺱﻉ ﻭ
ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﺍﻡ...ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﺕﻡّﺕ ﺍﻝﺱﺏﻉﻭﻥﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥ ﺱﻥّﺓ ﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ20
ﻭﺕ ﻭ ﻕﺕﻝﻩ ﺍﻡﺭﺀﺓ ﻡﻥ ﺏﻥﯼ ﺕﻡﯼﻡ...ﺏﺝﺍﻭﻥﺍﻝﺱّﻥﺓ ﺍﺕﯼ ﺍﻝﺡﺝّﺓ ﻉ ﺍﻝﻡ21  ﺹﺥﺭﺓ
ﻡﻥ ﻑﻭﻕ ﺱﻁﺡ ﻭ ﻩﻭﻡﺕﺝﺍﻭﺯ ﻑﯼ ﺍﻝﻁﺭﯼﻕ ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﻡﺍﺕ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﺍﻡ ﺕﺍﺕﯼ
...ﻝﺕﺝﻩﯼﺯﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉ ﺙﻡّ ﯼﻕﻭﻡ ﺏﺍﻝﺃﻡﺭ
[]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱMS: B 4276. P. 48/b
The duration of His kingdom is seven years. God
prolongs the days and nights that a year may become
equal to ten years. Because God, may He be praised,
commands the sphere[s] to slow down. Thus the
duration of His kingdom [will be] seventy years
[counting] by these years. And when fifty nine years
pass/elapse from (since) them Husayn, may peace be
upon Him, will come forth. So, when the seventy years
are completed death comes to the Proof [of God], may
peace be upon Him, a woman from the Baní-Tamím
kills Him…with a mortar of stone from a rooftop as he
passes along/crosses the road. And when He dies
Husayn, may peace be upon Him, will administer His
burial arrangements. After that [Husayn] will rise for
the Cause…
Compare it with the part in question from the third
manuscript:
ﻡﻥﻩﺍ...ﻑﺕﮎﻭﻥ ﻡﻝﮎﻩ ﺱﺏﻉﯼﻥ ﺱﻥﺓ ﻡﻥ ﻩﺫﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﻡﺽﯼ  ﺕﺱﻉ ﻭ
ﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥ ﺱﻥ...ﺓ ﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ
[]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱMS: B 1895. P. 19/b
…Thus the duration of His kingdom [will be] seventy
years [counting] by these years. And when fifty nine

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
years pass/elapse from (since) them Husayn, may peace
be upon Him, will come forth...
This prophesy is briefly summarized as follows by Shaykh
Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í in his “Sharh al-Ziyára al-Jámi‘a al-Kabira”:
ﺱﺏﻉﯼﻥ...ﻕﻝﻥﺍ ﻕﯼﺍﻡ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﺍﻭﻝﺍ ﻭ ﻩﻭ ﯼﺡﮎﻡ  ﺱﻥﺓ ﻑﯼ ﻡﺩﺓ ﺱﺏﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ
ﻉﻝﯼ ﺍﮎﺙﺭ ﺍﻝﺭﻭﺍﯼﺍﺕ ﻝﺍﻥ ﺍﻝﺱﻥﺓ ﻑﯼ ﺯﻡﺍﻥﻩ ﺏﻉﺵﺭ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺍﺫﺍ ﻡﺽﯼ ﻡﻥ
ﻭ ﺕﺱﻉ ﻭ ﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥﻡﻝﮎﻩ  ﺱﻥﺓ ﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉ
MS: D 702. P. 33/a
…We said that the rising of the Qá’im is first and He
will rule seventy years during a seven year period,
according to most versions [of the traditions]. Because
a year in His time is ten years. And when fifty nine
years pass/elapse from/since His reign Husayn, may
peace be upon Him, will come forth.
A correlating prophecy is quoted by Siyyid Kázim-i-Rashtí in
his “Risáliy-i-Bahbahániyyih.” For convenience’ sake, we can
refer to it as “prophesy 2” and to the prophesy from “Hayát al-
Nafs” as “prophesy 1”. In the aforementioned work Siyyid
Kázim states:
ﻭﯼﻁﻩّﺭ ﺍﻝﺃﺭﺽ ﺏﺱﯼﻑ ﻕﺍﺉﻡﻩﻡ ﺭﻭﺡﯼ ﻑﺩﺍﻩ ﻑﺏﻉﺩ ﺫﻝﮎ ﯼﺭﺝﻉﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﯼ ﺍﻝﺩّﻥﯼﺍ
ﻑﺍﻭّﻝ ﻡﻥ ﯼﺭﺝﻉ ﻡﻥﻩﻡ ﻩﻭّﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﺏﻥ ﻉﻝﯼ  ﺏﻥ ﺍﺏﯼ ﻁﺍﻝﺏ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡﺍ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ
ﺏﻉﺩ ﺥﺭﻭﺝ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﻡ ﺏﺕﺱﻉ ﻭ ﺥﻡﺱﯼﻥ ﺱﻥﺓ  ﺙﻡّ ﯼﺭﺝﻉ
ﻡﻭﻝﺍﻥﺍ ﻭ ﺱﯼّﺩﻥﺍ ﻉﻝﯼّ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﻝﻥﺹﺭﺓ ﺍﺏﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡﺍ ﺍﻝﺱﻝّﻡ ﻭ
ﯼﺏﻕﯼ ﻑﯼ ﺍﻝ ﺩّﻥﯼﺍ ﺕﺱﻉﺓ ﻭ ﺙﻝﺙﻡﺃﺓ ﺱﻥﺓ
MS: B 4269. P. 72/b
And [God] will purify the earth by the sword of their22
Qá’im, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him. And
after that they23 will return to the physical world. The
first of them to return fifty-nine years after the rising
of the Qá’im, may peace be upon Him, is Husayn b.
‘Alí b. Abí Tálib, may peace be upon both of them.
Then our Lord and Master — ‘Ali, may peace be upon
Him, will return to support His son — Husayn, may
peace be upon both of them, and will stay in the
physical world for three hundred and nine years.
Since we are not concerned in this paper with linguistics or
mathematics, and, given the fact that the language of prophecy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
is symbolic and non-linear rather than scientific, it would be
proper to consider also that “fifty-nine” sounds in Arabic as
“nine and fifty”. Thus, in a more literal translation (of
numbers), the passage from prophesy 1 will appear in the
following way:
The duration of His kingdom is seven years. God
prolongs the days and nights…Thus the duration of His
kingdom [will be] seventy years…And when nine and
fifty years pass/elapse from/since them Husayn…will
come forth.
The key phrase from prophesy 2 will assume the following
form:
…The first of them to return nine and fifty years after
the Qá’im…is Husayn b. ‘Ali…
All the numbers in the passages from both prophesies are
significant with respect to periods and dates in Bábí and Bahá’í
history. Leaving alone number 50 for the time being, let us
consider seven, nine, and 70. The Báb was martyred during the
seventh year of His mission (which corresponds to the end of
“the Qá’im’s kingdom” in symbolic language). Shoghi Effendi
writes: “On the evening of the very day of the Báb’s execution,
which fell on the ninth of July 1850 (28th of Sha‘bán 1266 AH),
during the thirty-first year of His age and the seventh of His
ministry…”24
Getting back to prophesy 2 (see above), if we add nine to the
year 1260 AH (the year of the Báb’s declaration, i.e., the “rising
of the Qá’im for His mission”) we will come to 1269 AH — i.e.,
the time when Bahá’u’lláh (Husayn-‘Alí) first received His
revelation in the Siyáh-Chál prison. Referring to this event
Shoghi Effendi points out:
During nine years, as foretold by the Báb Himself,
swiftly, mysteriously and irresistibly the embryonic
Faith conceived by Him had been developing until, at
the fixed hour, the burden of the promised Cause of
God was cast amidst the gloom and agony of the Siyáh-
Chál of Tihrán…His25 imprisonment lasted for a period
of no less than four months, in the middle of which the

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
“year nine” (1269), anticipated in such glowing terms
by the Bab, and alluded to as the year “after Hin” by
Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í, was ushered in, endowing with
undreamt-of potentialities the whole world.26
Thus, the numbers seven and nine should be understood
literally, as they perfectly match the historic periods. But if we
look further into the passage from prophecy 1, we may discover
that it contains more information than it appears: “the
duration of His kingdom [will be] seventy years…And when
nine…years pass/elapse from/since then Husayn…will come
forth.”
“Nine”
years
passing/elapsing
from/since
“70”
(understood as a year)27 will lead us to 79 — the year of
Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration, which took place in the month of
Dhi’l-Qadih 1279 AH (May 1863) in the Garden of Ridván in
Baghdad.
The above prophecies also clearly indicate that Husayn b.
‘Alí will outlive the Qá’im and that He will rise for His Cause
after the Qá’im’s death. The Qá’im will be martyred, while
Husayn b. ‘Alí will outlive Him. These indications perfectly fit
into
the
historic
context
and
particularly
into
the
circumstances of the ascension of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.
Let us now proceed on to the second part of the prophecy in
the Hayát al-Nafs beginning with its Persian translation by
Siyyid Kázim:
ﻭﯼﺯﯼﺩ ﺏﻥ ﻡﻉﺍﻭﯼﻩ ﻭﻉﺏﯼﺩﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺏﻥ ﺯﯼﺍﺩ...ﻭ ﮎﺱﺍﻥﯼ ﮎﻩ ﺏﺍﻑﻉﺍﻝ ﻕﺏﯼﺡﻩ
ﺍﯼﺵﺍﻥ ﺭﺍﺽﯼ ﺵﺩﻥﺩ ﺍﺯ ﺍﻭﻝﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺁﺥﺭﯼﻥ ﻝﻉﻥﺓ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡ ﺍﺝﻡﻉﯼﻥ ﭖﺱ
ﻩﻡﮎﯼ ﺍﯼﺵﺍﻥ ﺭﺍ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﺏﻕﺕﻝ ﺭﺱﺍﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺍﺯﺝﻡﻝﮎﯼ
ﻕﺹﺍﺹ ﮎﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺏﺱﯼﺍﺭ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﮎﺵﺕﻥ ﺭﺍ ﺩﺭ ﻡﯼﺍﻥ ﻡ ﺥﺍﻝﻑﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺩﻭﺱﺕﺍﻥ
ﺍﯼﺵﺍﻥ ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﻡﺝﺕﻡﻉ ﺵﻭﻥﺩ ﺏﺭ ﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺝﻡﺍﻉﺕ ﺍﺵﺭﺍﺭ ﻭ ﺏﻕﯼﻩ ﮎﻑّﺍﺭ
ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﻍﺍﻝﺏ ﻡﯼﺵﻭﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺁﻥﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺭﺍ ﻡﺡﺍﺹﺭﻩ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﻥﺩ ﺩﺭ ﺏﯼﺕ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ
ﺍﻝﺡﺭﺍﻡ ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﺍﻡﺭ ﺏﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺵﺩﯼﺩ ﺵﻭﺩ ﺥﺭﻭﺝ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﺱﻑّﺍﺡ
ﺍﻡﯼﺭﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﺏﺍ ﻡﻝﺍﯼﮎﻩ ﺏﺭﺍﯼ ﻥﺹﺭﺕ ﻑﺭﺯﻥﺩ ﮎﺭﺍﻡﯼ ﺥﻭﺩ
ﭖﺱ ﻡ ﯼﮎﺵﺩ ﺍﻉﺩﺍ ﺀ ﺩﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺭﺅﺱﺍﯼ ﻡﻥﺍﻑﻕﯼﻥ ﺭﺍ ﻭ ﻡﮎﺙ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﺁﻥ
ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺏﺍ ﻑﺭﺯﻥﺩ ﻉﺍﻝﯼﻡﻕﺩﺍﺭ ﺥﻭﺩ ﻡﺩّﺕ ﺱﯼﺹﺩ ﻭ ﻥﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ
ﭖﺱ ﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺭﺍ ﺵﻩﯼﺩ ﻥﻡﺍﯼﻥﺩﭺﻥﺍﻥﮎﻩ ﺍﺹﺡﺍﺏ ﮎﻩﻑ ﻡﮎﺙ ﻥﻡﻭﺩﻥﺩ
ﻝﻉﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻕﺍﺕﻝﯼﻩ ﻭ ﺏﺍﻕﯼ ﻡﯼﻡﺍﻥﺩ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﻡ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ
ﺏﺩﯼﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻭ ﺍﺱﺕﻡﺩﺕ ﻡﻝﮎ ﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﭖﻥﺝﺍﻩ ﻩﺯﺍﺭ ﺱﺍﻝ  ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ
...ّﻡﯼ ﺏﻥﺩﺩ ﺍﺏﺭﻭﯼ ﺥﻭﺩﺭﺍ ﺏﺩﺱﺕﻡﺍﻝﯼ ﺍﺯ ﺵﺩﺕ ﮎﺏﺭ ﺱﻥ
[ ]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱ ﺩﺭ ﺕﺭﺝﻡﮤ ﻑﺍﺭﺱﯼ ﺍﺯ ﺱﯼﺩ ﮎﺍﻅﻡ ﺭﺵﺕﯼ

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

ﻭﻡﺡﺵﻭﺭ ﻡﯼ ﺵﻭﺩ ﯼﺯﯼﺩ ﺍﺏﻥ ﻡﻉﺍﻭﯼﻩ... ﻭ ﻉﺏﯼﺩﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺍﺏﻥ ﺯﯼﺍﺩ...ﻭ ﮎﺱﺍﻥﯼ ﮎﻩ
ﺏﺍﻑﻉﺍﻝ ﻕﺏﯼﺡﻩ ﺍﯼﺵﺍﻥ ﺭﺍﺽﯼ ﺵﺩﻥﺩ ﺍﺯ ﺍﻭﻝﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺁﺥﺭﯼﻥ ﻝﻉﻥﺓ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡ
ﺍﺝﻡﻉﯼﻥ ﭖﺱ ﻩﻡﮎﯼ ﺍﯼﺵﺍﻥ  ﺭﺍ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺏﻕﺕﻝ
ﺭﺱﺍﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺁﻥ ﺝﻡﻝﮎﯼ ﻕﺹﺍﺹ ﮎﻥﺩ ﻭ ﺏﺱﯼﺍﺭ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﮎﺵﺕﻥ ﺭﺍ ﺩﺭ ﻡﯼﺍﻥ
ﻡﻥﺍﻑﻕﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺩﻭﺱﺕﺍﻥ ﺍﯼﺵﺍﻥ ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﻡﺝﺕﻡﻉ ﺵﻭﻥﺩ ﺏﺭ ﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺝﻡﺍﻉﺕ
ﺍﺵﺭﺍﺭ ﻭ ﺏﻕﯼﻩ ﮎﻑّﺍﺭﺍﺯﺍﻁﺭﺍﻑ ﺯﻡﯼﻥ ﺍﺯ ﻩﺭﺝﻩﺓ ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﻍﺍﻝﺏ ﻡﯼﺵﻭﺩ ﻭ ﺁﻥ
ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺭﺍ ﻡﺡﺍﺹﺭﻩ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﻥﺩ ﺩﺭ ﺏﯼﺕ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺭﺍ ﻡ ﭖﺱ ﭺﻭﻥ ﺍﻡﺭ ﺏﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ
ﺵﺩﯼﺩ ﺵﻭﺩ ﺥﺭﻭﺝ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﺱﻑّﺍﺡ ﺍﻡﯼﺭﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺏﺍ ﻡﻝﺍﺉﮎﻩ
ﺏﺭﺍﯼ ﻥﺹﺭﺕ ﻥﻭﺭ ﺩﯼﺩﮤ ﮎﺭﺍﻡﯼ ﺥﻭﺩ ﭖﺱ ﺏﮎﺵﺩ ﺍﻉﺩﺍﯼ ﺩﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺭﺅﺱﺍﯼ
ﻡﻥﺍﻑﻕﯼﻥ ﺭﺍ ﻭ ﻡﮎﺙ ﻡﯼﮎﻥﺩ ﺁﻥ ﺏﺯﺭﮎﻭﺍﺭ ﺏﺍ ﻑﺭﺯﻥﺩ ﻉﺍﻝﯼ ﻡﻕﺩﺍﺭ
ﺥﻭﺩ ﻡﺩّﺕ ﺵﯼﺵﺹﺩ28 ﺱﺍﻝ ﻭ ﻥﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ  ﭺﻥﺍﻥﮎﻩ ﺍﺹﺡﺍﺏ ﮎﻩﻑ ﻡﮎﺙ
ﺕ ﺭﺍ ﺵﻩﯼﺩ ﻥﻡﺍﯼﻥﺩﭖﺱ ﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﻥﻡﻭﺩﻥﺩ  ﻝﻉﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻕﺍﺕﻝﻩ ﻭ ﺏﺍﻕﯼ
ﻡﯼﻡﺍﻥﺩ ﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﺏﺩﯼﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻡﺩﺕ ﻡﻝﮎ
ﺁﻥﺡﺽﺭﺕ ﭖﻥﺝﺍﻩ ﻩﺯﺍﺭ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺕﺍ ﺍﯼﻥﮎﻩ ﻡﯼ ﺏﻥﺩﺩ ﺍﺏﺭﻭﯼ ﻡﺏﺍﺭﮎ ﺥﻭﺩﺭﺍ ﺏﺍ
،ﺩﺱﺕﻡﺍﻝ ﺍﺯ ﺵﺩﺕ ﮎﺏﺭﻭ ﺏﺯﺭﮎﯼ ﺱﻥّ... ]ﺍﺹﻭﻝ ﻉﻕﺍﯼﺩ ﺍﺯ ﺱﯼﺩ ﮎﺍﻅﻡ ﺭﺵﺕﯼ
.ﺹ117]
My translation of the above passage based on both versions is
as follows, with different readings indicated by a forward
slash:
And Yazíd b. Mu‘áviyyih and ‘Ubaydu’lláh b.
Ziyád…and those who were content with their
abominable actions from the first to the last, may God
curse all of them altogether, will assemble. Then His
holiness imám Husayn, may peace be upon Him, will
put them all to death and execute vengeance upon every
single of them. He will slay many adversaries/
hypocrites and their companions until a party of
enemies and the remaining unbelievers/unbelievers
from every side, from every corner of the world band
together against His holiness in a way that they prevail
[over him] and besiege that Noble person in the Sacred
House
of
God.
When
the
situation
becomes
increasingly grave for His holiness then the “Generous,”
the Commander of the Faithful, may peace be upon
Him, will come forth with angels to assist His precious
son/ solace of the eyes. Then He will kill enemies of the
religion and the leaders of the hypocrites. That Noble
person will stay (lit.: tarry) with His highly honored son
for a period of three hundred and nine years as did (lit.:

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
tarried) the companions of the Cave. Then His holiness
will be martyred, may God curse His murderers/
murderer. And His holiness imám Husayn will stay
firm in the religion of God, and the duration of His
holiness’ kingdom is fifty thousand years, until He
covers (lit.: ties) His brow/blessed brow with a towel
(handkerchief?) from extreme old age.
Before we compare this passage in Siyyid Kázim’s Persian
translation with its Arabic original let us clarify certain
points. “The Generous/Blood-shedder” (Saffáh) is an epithet
describing imám ‘Ali (whose other epithet is “the Commander
of the Faithful”). Imám al-Báqir is quoted as saying:29
ﻕﺍﻝ ﺝ ﺍﺏﺭ: ﻩﻝ ﺕﺩﺭﯼ ﻡﻥ ﺍﻝﻡﻥﺕﺹﺭ ﻭﺍﻝﺱﻑﺍﺡ؟ ﯼﺍ ﺝﺍﺏﺭ ﺍﻝﻡﻥﺕﺹﺭ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ
()ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ( ﻭﺍﻝﺱﻑﺍﺡ ﺃﻡﯼﺭﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﯼﻥ )ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ30
Jábir said: Do you know who is the Victorious (al-
Muntasir) and the Generous (al-Saffáh)?’ — ‘O Jábir,
the Victorious is al-Husayn (may peace be upon Him)
and the Generous is the Commander of the Faithful
(may peace be upon Him).
“The companions of the Cave” is an allusion to Koran 18:24/25:
“And they tarried in the Cave three hundred years, and to that
they added nine more.”31
Let us now turn our attention to Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í’s
original text of the passage in the “Hayát al-Nafs” based on the
three manuscripts:
ﻭ ﯼﺡﺵﺭ ﻝﻩ ﯼﺯﯼﺩ ﺍﺏﻥ ﻡﻉﺍﻭﯼﺓ ﻭ ﻉﺏﺩﺍﻝﻝﻩ32  ﺍﺏﻥ ﺯﯼﺍﺩ...ﻭ ﻡﻥ ﺭﺽﯼ
ﺏﺍﻑﻉﺍﻝﻩﻡ ﻡﻥ ﺍﻝﺍﻭّﻝﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺍﻝﺍﺥﺭﯼﻥ ﻝﻉﻥﺓ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡ ﺍﺝﻡﻉﯼﻥ ﻑﯼﻕﺕﻝﻩﻡ
ّﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉ ﻭ ﯼﻕﺕﺹ ﻡﻥﻩﻡ ...ﺡﺕﯼ ﯼﺝﺕﻡﻉ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﺵﺭﺍﺭ ﺍﻝﻥّﺍﺱ ﻡﻥ ﮎﻝ
ﻥﺍﺡﯼﺓ...ﻑﺍﺫﺍ ﺍﺵﺕﺩّ ﺏﻩ ﺍﻝﺍﻡﺭ ﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﺱّﻑﺍﺡ ﺍﻡﯼﺭ ﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼّ ﺍﺏﻥ ﺍﺏﯼ
ﻝﺱّﻝﺍﻡ ﻝﻥﺹﺭﺕﻩ ﻡﻉ ﺍﻝﻡﻝﺍﺉﮎﺓ ﻑﯼﻕﺕﻝﻭﻥ ﺍﻉﺩﺍﺀ ﺍﻝﺫﯼﻥﻁﺍﻝﺏ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍ33
ﯼﻡﮎﺙ ﻉﻝﯼّ ﻡﻉ ﺍﺏﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥﻭ  ﺱﻥﺓﺙﻝﺙ ﻡﺉﺍﺓ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡﺍ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﺍﻡ  ﻭ
ﺱﻥﯼﻥﺕﺱﻉ  ﮎﻡﺍ ﻝﺏﺙ ﺍﺹﺡﺍﺏ ﺍﻝﮎﻩﻑ ﺙﻡ ﯼﺽﺭﺏ ﻉﻝﯼ ﻕﺭﻥﻩ ﻭﯼﻕﺕﻝ ﻝﻉﻥ
ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻕﺍﺕﻝﻩ ﻭﯼﺏﻕﯼ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉ ﻕﺍﺉﻡﺍً ﺏﺩﯼﻥ ﻭ ﻡﺩﺕ ﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﻑ ﺱﻥّﺓ
ﺡﺕﯼ ﯼﺭﺏﻁ ﺡﺍﺝﺏﯼ34 ﺏﻉﺹﺍﺏﺓ ﻡﻥ ﺵﺩّﺕ ﺍﻝﮎﺏﺭ
[]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱMS: B 4276. P. 48/b-49/a
As for the other two manuscripts, I will quote only the lines
which contain some minor differences from the above version:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
...ﻑﯼﻕﺕﻝﻭﻥ ﺍﻉﺩﺍﺀ ﺍﻝﺩﯼﻥ ﻭﯼﻡﮎﺙ ﻉﻝﯼ ﻡﻉ ﺍﺏﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﺭﻭﺡﯼ ﻑﺩﺍﻩﻡﺍ
ﮎﻡﺍ ﻝﺏﺙ ﺍﺹﺡﺙﻝﺍﺙﻡﺍﺉﺓ ﺱﻥﺓ ﻭ ﺕﺱﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﺍﺏ ﺍﻝﮎﻩﻑ ﺙﻡ ﯼﺽﺭﺏ
ﻉﻝﯼ ﻑﺭﻕﻩ ﻭﯼﻕﺕﻝ ﻝﻉﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻕﺍﺕﻝﻩ ﻭ ﯼﺏﻕﯼ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉ ﻕﺍﺉﻡﺍ ﺏﺩﯼﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ
ﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﻑ ﺱﻥﺓﻭﻡﺩﺓ ﻡﻝﮎﻩ  ﺡﺕﯼ ﺍﻥﻩ ﯼﺭﺏﻁ ﺡﺍﺝﺏﯼﻩ ﺏﻉﺹﺍﺏﺓ ﻡﻥ ﺵﺩﺓ
ﺍﻝﮎﺏﺭ
[]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱMS: А 706. P. 17/a-b

...ﻑﯼﻕﺕﻝﻭﻥ ﺍﻉﺩﺁﺀ ﺍﻝﺩّﯼﻥ ﻭﯼﻡﮎﺙ ﻉﻝﯼّ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﻡﻉ ﺍﺏﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ
ﻡﺍﺉﺓ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﻭ ﺕﺱﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥﺙﻝﺙﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ  ﮎﻡﺍ ﻝﺏﺙ ﺍﺹﺡﺍﺏ
ﺍﻝﮎﻩﻑ ﺙﻡ ﯼﺽﺭﺏ ﻉﻝﯼّ ﻑﺭﻕﻩ ﻭﯼﻕﺕﻝ ﻝﻉﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻕﺍﺕﻝﻩ ﻭﯼﺏﻕﯼ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ
ﺥﻡﺱﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﻑ ﺱﻥﺓﻕﺍﺉﻡﺍً ﺏﺩﯼﻥ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻭ ﻡﺩّﺓ ﻡﻝﮎﻩ  ﺡﺕّﯼ ﺍﻥّﻩ ﻝﯼﺭﺏﻁ
ﺡﺍﺝﺏﯼﻩ ﺏﻉﺹﺍﺏﺓ ﻡﻥ ﺵﺩّﺓ ﺍﻝﮎﺏﺭ
[]ﺡﯼﻭﺓ ﺍﻝﻥﻑﺱMS: B 1895. P. 19/b
Following is a translation of the above passage based on the
three MS versions, with different readings indicated by a
forward slash:
And Yazíd b. Mu‘áviyyih and ‘Ubaydu’lláh b. Ziyád
…and those who were content with their actions from
the first to the last, may God curse them all, will
assemble. Then imám Husayn, may peace be upon Him,
will kill them and avenge upon them…until the enemies
of humankind from every region band together against
Him…When the situation becomes increasingly grave
for Him then ‘Alí b. Abí Tálib, the Generous, the
Commander of the Faithful, may peace be upon Him,
will come forth with angels to assist Him. Thus, they
will kill enemies of the religion. And ‘Alí will stay (lit.:
tarry) with Husayn, His son, may peace be upon both
of them/may my soul be a sacrifice for both of them,
for three hundred years and nine years as did (lit.:
tarried) the companions of the Cave. Then ‘Ali will be
struck upon His head/horns, may God curse His
murderer. And Husayn, may peace be upon Him, will
remain supreme over the religion of God. And the
period of His kingdom/period is fifty thousand years
until He covers (lit.: ties) His eyebrows with a bandage
from extreme old age.
The same message is conveyed by the passage in Siyyid
Kázim’s “Risáliy-i-Bahbahániyyih” already quoted:

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
ﻭﯼﻅﻩﺭ ﺍﻝﺃﺭﺽ ﺏﺱﯼﻑ ﻕ ﺍﺉﻡﻩﻡ ﺭﻭﺡﯼ ﻑﺩﺍﻩ ﻑﺏﻉﺩ ﺫﻝﮎ ﯼﺭﺝﻉﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﯼ ﺍﻝﺩّﻥﯼﺍ
ﻑﺍﻭّﻝ ﻡﻥ ﯼﺭﺝﻉ ﻡﻥﻩﻡ ﻩﻭّﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﺏﻥ ﻉﻝﯼ  ﺏﻥ ﺍﺏﯼ ﻁﺍﻝﺏ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡﺍ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ
ﺏﻉﺩ ﺥﺭﻭﺝ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﻡ ﺏﺕﺱﻉ  ﻭ ﺥﻡﺱﯼﻥ ﺱﻥﺓ ﺙﻡّ ﯼﺭﺝﻉ
ﻡﻭﻝﺍﻥﺍ ﻭ ﺱﯼّﺩﻥﺍ ﻉﻝﯼّ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱّﻝﻡ ﻝﻥﺹﺭﺓ ﺍﺏﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﯼﻥ ﻉﻝﯼﻩﻡﺍ ﺍﻝﺱﻝّﻡ ﻭ
ﺱﻥﺓﺕﺱﻉﺓ ﻭ ﺙﻝﺙﻡﺃﺓﯼﺏﻕﯼ ﻑﯼ ﺍﻝﺩّﻥﯼﺍ35
MS: B 4269. P. 72/b
And [God] will purify the earth by the sword of their
Qá’im, may my spirit be a sacrifice for Him. And
after that they36 will return to the physical world. The
first of them to return fifty nine years after the rising
of the Qá’im, may peace be upon Him, is Husayn b.
‘Alí b. Abí Tálib, may peace be upon both of them.
Then our Lord and Master — ‘Alí, may peace be upon
Him, will return to support His son — Husayn, may
peace be upon both of them, and will stay in the
physical world for three hundred and nine years.
What is special about this part of the prophecy, which is
based on the Koranic verse, is that “309” features in it as a split
number consisting of two separate numbers of years/year
periods: three hundred years and nine years (see above). The
noun it modifies (“years”) occurs twice — following the “three
hundred” and the “nine”: ﺙﻝﺍﺙﻡﺍﺉﺓ ﺱﻥﺓ ﻭ ﺕﺱﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ “three
hundred years and nine years,” while from a grammatical
stand-point a compound number (309) should be treated in
Arabic as one single unit with the modified noun that follows
it occurring once: ﺙﻝﺍﺙﻡﺍﺉﺓ ﻭ ﺕﺱﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ “three hundred and
nine years.” In the Koranic verse which the prophecy alludes to
— though generally understood to indicate a single number
(309) — nine is also separated from 300: “And they tarried in the
Cave three hundred years, and to that they added nine more.”
All these factors considered it is reasonable to suppose that
nine has a special value attached to it in this prophecy and that
it stands on its own (which of course does not preclude 309
from being significant too). This also serves as a confirmation
of the validity of the method we employed earlier, which
consisted of splitting “fifty nine” into “nine” and ‘fifty”
(years) and considering each unit on its own merits. In other
words, this part appears to hold a clue to unraveling the riddle
behind the whole prophecy, based largely on a special

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
symbolism of “nine” within the compound numbers the
prophecy contains.
Now let us reflect more deeply upon the following lines and
the message they convey, focusing on the numbers, names and
name combinations involved:
Then imám Husayn…will kill them and avenge upon
them… When the situation becomes increasingly grave
for Him then ‘Alí…will come forth with angels to assist
Him…And ‘Alí will stay with Husayn…for three
hundred years and nine years…
In summary, it conveys the following message: “Husayn (who
is mentioned first) is joined by ‘Alí and they stay together for
three hundred years and nine years.” Taken symbolically, this
forms a name combination, which is highly significant, for it
corresponds to Bahá’u’lláh’s name: “Husayn” plus “‘Alí” is
“Husayn-‘Alí.” The prophecy tells us that “Husayn + ‘Alí
(Husayn-‘Alí, i.e., Bahá’u’lláh) will stay for 309 years.” We have
already seen that numbers expressing temporal realities in non-
linear language do not necessarily refer to a time period and
can also indicate a year (cf. “70” which we interpreted as a
reference to the year 1270). Accordingly, if we apply “309” to a
year it would be logical to take it to imply 1309 AH, which is
the year of Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension. Consequently, viewed from
this angle, the hidden message of the prophecy appears to fit
perfectly into the context of historic realities becoming
transparent and fully meaningful: Husayn-‘Alí (Husayan + ‘Alí),
i.e., Bahá’u’lláh stays in this world until 1309. In his account of
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, Shoghi Effendi wrote:
…His general condition grew steadily worse…which at
last culminated in His ascension…on the 2nd of Dhi’l-
Qa‘dih 1309 AH (May 29, 1892), eight hours after
sunset, in the 75th year of His age.37
If we look further into the quoted passage from the
prophecy, we may discover that it contains even more
information, given the fact that a message conveyed in
symbolic (non-linear) language can well have several layers of
meaning. This assumption is supported by the earlier
conclusion that “nine” which is separated from “300” has a

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
special value attached to it within the compound number
“309.” Therefore it must play a special role. But what is the
significance of nine here? The clue to the riddle appears to be in
the sentence itself: “And ‘Alí will stay with Husayn …for three
hundred years and nine years…”
We have already considered the names in their combination.
Let us now analyze them separately. The name “‘Alí,” by which
the Báb often referred to Himself, is the first component of
His compound name: ‘Alí-Muhammad. Husayn is the first
component of Bahá’u’lláh’s name: Husayn-‘Alí. The first part
of the prophecy (see above) clearly indicated that Husayn would
outlive ‘Alí, while the second part tells us that ‘Alí will stay with
Husayn for…nine years. If ‘Alí is taken to imply ‘Alí-
Muhammad the Báb and Husayn — Husayn-‘Alí Bahá’u’lláh,
then a correspondence with historic realities will become
apparent. Between the Báb’s declaration in 1260 AH and
Bahá’u’lláh’s first receiving His revelation in 1269 AH, a period
of nine years elapsed (see above) or to put it metaphorically, for
nine years Husayn[-‘Alí Bahá’u’lláh] abided under the shadow
of ‘Alí[-Muhammad the Báb]’s Revelation before the birth of
His own Revelation. To quote Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’u’lláh was
in “active and exemplary discipleship in the service of the Báb”:
At a time when the Cause of the Bab seemed to be
hovering on the brink of extinction, when the hopes
and ambitions which animated it had, to all human
seeming, been frustrated…, the Divine Promise
enshrined within it was about to be suddenly redeemed,
and its final perfection mysteriously manifested. The
Bábí Dispensation was being brought to its close (not
prematurely but in its appointed time), and was
yielding its destined fruit and revealing its ultimate
purpose — the birth of the Mission of Bahá’u’lláh…
During nine years, as foretold by the Bab Himself,
swiftly, mysteriously and irresistibly the embryonic
Faith conceived by Him had been developing until, at
the fixed hour, the burden of the promised Cause of
God was cast amidst the gloom and agony of the Siyah-
Chal of Tihran. “Behold,” Bahá’u’lláh Himself, years
later,
testified…,
“how
immediately
upon
the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
completion of the ninth year of this wondrous, this
most holy and merciful Dispensation, the requisite
number of pure, of wholly consecrated and sanctified
souls has been most secretly consummated.” “That so
brief an interval,”…”should have separated this most
mighty and wondrous Revelation from Mine own
Manifestation is a secret that no man can unravel…Its
duration had been foreordained…
The Shah's edict, equivalent to an order for the
immediate expulsion of Bahá’u’lláh from Persian
territory, opens a new and glorious chapter in the
history of the first Bahá’í century… The process which
it set in motion, gradually progressing and unfolding,
began by establishing His Cause for a time in the very
midst of the jealously-guarded stronghold of Shí'ah
Islam, and brought Him in personal contact with its
highest and most illustrious exponents; then, at a later
stage, it confronted Him, at the seat of the Caliphate,
with the civil and ecclesiastical dignitaries of the realm
and the representatives of the Sultan of Turkey, the
most powerful potentate in the Islamic world; and
finally carried Him as far as the shores of the Holy
Land, thereby fulfilling the prophecies recorded in both
the Old and the New Testaments… With it, may be said
to have begun the last and most fruitful of the four
stages of a life, the first twenty-seven years of which
were characterized by the care-free enjoyment of all the
advantages conferred by high birth and riches, and by
an unfailing solicitude for the interests of the poor, the
sick and the down-trodden; followed by nine years of
active and exemplary discipleship in the service of the
Báb; and finally by an imprisonment of four months'
duration, overshadowed throughout by mortal peril,
embittered by agonizing sorrows, and immortalized,
as it drew to a close, by the sudden eruption of the
forces
released
by
an
overpowering,
soul-
revolutionizing Revelation.38
Let us now move to the closing lines of the second part of
the prophecy:

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Then ‘Ali will be struck upon His head…, may God
curse His murderer. And Husayn… will remain supreme
over the religion of God. And the period of His
kingdom/period is fifty thousand years until He covers
(lit.: ties) His eyebrows with a bandage from extreme
old age. (cf. above)
This passage brings us back to the circumstances of the death
of ‘Alí and Husayn. Once again, it is emphasized that ‘Alí will
be murdered/martyred and that Husayn will die a natural death
at an old age. Husayn will outlive ‘Alí and continue to promote
their common Cause, staying firm in the religion of God after
‘Alí is martyred. His kingdom will last for 50,000 years. In
linear language, the syntax of the last phrase would imply that
Husayn will first reign for 50,000 years and then die upon the
completion of this period. But in the symbolic non-linear
language in which the prophecy is told, the story does not
unfold sequentially. Thus, several different messages can be
conveyed simultaneously. Consequently, one plane of meaning
may be understood to refer to the short-term perspective, i.e.,
to the lives of ‘Alí and Husayn on earth, while another conveys
a long-term picture, i.e., Husayn’s spiritual Kingdom. Once
‘Alí and Husayn are identified with the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh,
respectively, the correspondences between the first plane of
meaning and reality become apparent. That the described
short-term events match completely the circumstances of the
earthly lives of the Bab and Bahá’u’lláh is so obvious to anyone
who is familiar with the history of the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths
that the issue does not need further elaboration. As for the
meaning of “the 50,000 years of Husayn’s kingdom” one can
assume that a year here implies 10 years as indicated in the
beginning of the prophecy (“…the True and Exalted [God] will
prolong days and nights so that a year will become equal to ten
years.”). By multiplying 50,000 by 10, we get 500,000 (years)
which correspond to the duration of Bahá’u’lláh’s Cycle as
interpreted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in relation to the Zoroastrian
prophecy (see above).
Let us now return to the first part of this prophecy and the
related prophecy from the “Risáliy-i-Bahbahániyyih” to
consider a number for which no interpretation has so far been

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
suggested, i.e., “50” in the following lines of the respective
eschatological accounts:
…Thus the duration of His (i.e., the Qá’im’s) kingdom
[will be] seventy years…And when nine and fifty years
pass/elapse
from/since
them
Husayn…will
come
forth...And
when
He
dies
Husayn...will
set
up/administer His burial arrangements.
…The first of them to return nine and fifty years after
the Qá’im…is Husayn b. ‘Ali…
It was suggested earlier that “nine years elapsing from 70
(understood as a year)” indicated (12)79 AH, i.e., the year of
Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration, which marks the beginning of His
mission. The starting point for this calculation is 1270 AH.
However, the other prophecy implies that “nine” and “50” may
also be counted from the beginning of the Báb’s mission (1260
AH), who is identified with the Qá’im. The underlying logic
behind all our interpretations is based on the fact that events
when expressed in non-linear language are not necessarily
sequential and the message has different levels of meaning
enfolded in the text which coexist without precluding one
another. It has already been shown that nine years calculated
from 1260 AH lead to a significant date in history, i.e., 1269
AH (the time when Bahá’u’lláh first received His revelation),
confirming the validity of the assumption that 1260 AH should
be taken as a starting point from which to reckon “50” as well.
This would lead one to another significant date, the ascension
of Bahá’u’lláh, marking a period which embraces the Ministry
of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh as the Twin Manifestations of God
(from the Bab’s declaration until Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension 49
years and six months ≈ 50 years elapsed) described by Shoghi
Effendi in the following way:
Inaugurated by the Báb, culminating in Bahá’u’lláh,
anticipated and extolled by the entire company of the
Prophets of this prophetic cycle, this period has, except
for the short interval between the Báb’s martyrdom and
Bahá’u’lláh’s shaking experiences in the Siyáh-Chál of
Tihrán, been characterized by almost fifty years of
continuous and progressive Revelation — a period
which by its duration and fecundity must be regarded

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
as unparalleled in the entire field of the world’s
spiritual history.39
Another significant 50 year period can be identified elapsing
from the time of the Báb’s execution (1266 AH) until His
remains finally arrived in the Holy Land — not precluding the
previous interpretation. Shoghi Effendi writes:
Assisted by another believer, Háji Sháh Muhammad
buried the casket beneath the floor of the inner
sanctuary of the shrine of Imám-Zádih Zayd, where it
lay undetected until Mirzá Asadu'lláh-i-Isfahani was
informed of its exact location through a chart
forwarded to him by Bahá’u’lláh. Instructed by
Bahá’u’lláh to conceal it elsewhere, he first removed the
remains to his own house in Tihrán, after which they
were deposited in several other localities such as the
house
of
Husayn-i-‘Ali-yi-Isfahani
and
that
of
Muhammad-Karím-i-‘Attár,
where
they
remained
hidden until the year 1316 AH (1899), when, in
pursuance of directions issued by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, this
same Mirzá Asadu’lláh, together with a number of
other believers, transported them by way of Isfahán,
Kirmánsháh, Baghdad and Damascus, to Beyrut and
thence by sea to ‘Akka, arriving at their destination on
the 19th of the month of Ramadan 1316 AH (January
31, 1899), fifty lunar years after the Báb’s execution in
Tabriz.40
The quoted passage from Shoghi Effendi clearly shows that
the arrangements for the transportation of the Báb’s remains,
their protection and temporary concealment until they were
finally laid to rest in the Holy Land were made under
Bahá’u’lláh’s direct instruction, Who literally “administered”
the Báb’s burial. Thus, the phrase from the prophecy: “And
when He dies Husayn...will set up/administer His burial
arrangements” (see above) fits well into historical context.
It would be fair to say that the predictions contained in
Shaykh Ahmad’s eschatological account are not unique to his
work and can be found in other sources. Moreover, his
prophecy is composed of parts which can be traced back to the
“Bihár al-Anvár” by Majlisí, “Usul-i-Káfí” by Kuliní, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
“‘Aválim al-‘Ulum va-l-Ma‘árif” by Shaikh Bahrainí, which are
cited in many other works. Thus, in Moslem traditions there
exist numerous references to seven and/or nine and/or 70 years
of the Qá’im’s/Mahdí’s life or reign, for example:
ًﯼﻉﯼﺵ ﺥﻡﺱﺍً ﺃﻭ ﺱﺏﻉﺍً ﺃﻭ ﺕﺱﻉﺍ41
[The Qá’im/Mahdi] lives five or seven or nine;
ﺇﺫﺍ ﻕﺍﻡ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ...ﻭ ﯼﻡﮎﺙ ﻉﻝﯼ ﺫﻝﮎ ﺱﺏﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﮎﻝ ﺱﻥﺓ ﻉﺵﺭ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ ﻡﻥ
ﺱﻥﯼﻥﮎﻡ ﻩﺫﻩ42
When the Qá’im arises…He will stay for this reason
seven years, each year being these ten years of yours;
ﻑﺇﺫﺍ ﺕﻡﺕ ﺍﻝﺱﺏﻉﻭﻥ ﺃﺕﻯ ﺍﻝﺡﺝﺓ ﺍﻝﻡﻭﺕ. ﻱﺭﺍﺩ ﺏﻩﺫﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﺏﻉﻱﻥ ﺃﻥ ﺍﻝﺡﺝﺓ
ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﺍﻝﻡﻩﺩﻱ)ﻉ( ﻱﺏﻕﻯ ﻑﻱ ﺍﻝﺡﻙﻡ ﺱﺏﻉﻱﻥ ﻉﺍﻡﺍً ، ﻭﻝﺍﺏﺩ ﺃﻥ ﻩﺫﺍ ﻡﻥﻁﻝﻕ ﻡﻥ
ﺍﻝﺥﺏﺭ ﺍﻝﺫﻱ ﺱﻡﻉﻥﺍﻩ ﻑﻱ ﻑﺹﻝ ﺱﺍﺏﻕ ﻡﻥ ﺃﻥﻩ ﻱﺏﻕﻯ ﺱﺏﻉ ﺱﻥﻱﻥ ، ﻙﻝ
ﺱﻥﺓ ﻙﻉﺵﺭ ﺱﻥﻱﻥ ﻡﻥ ﺱﻥﻱﻙﻡ
ﺍً، ﻑﻩﻭ ﻱﺏﻕﻯ ﺱﺏﻉﻱﻥ ﺱﻥﺓﻩﺫﻩ ، ﺇﺫ43
So, when the seventy years are completed death comes
to the Proof [of God]. These seventy imply that the
Proof, [Who is] the Qá’im, Mahdí, may peace be upon
Him, will stay in power for seventy years. This meaning
undoubtedly follows from the tradition which we heard
in the previous part, i.e., that ‘He stays seven years,
and every year is like these ten of your years,’ in this
case He will stay for seventy years.
ﻑﺇﺫﺍ ﺕﻡﺕ ﺍﻝﺱﺏﻉﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﺱﻥﺓ ﺃﺕﻯ ﺍﻝﺡﺝﺓ ﺍﻝﻡﻭﺕ ﻑﺕﻕﺕﻝﻩ ﺍﻡﺭﺃﺓ ﻡﻥ  ﺏﻥﻱ
ﺕﻡﻱﻡ... ﺏﺝﺍ ﻭﻥ ﺹﺥﺭ ﻡﻥ ﻑﻭﻕ ﺱﻁﺡ ﻭﻩﻭ ﻡﺕﺝﺍﻭﺯ ﻑﻱ ﺍﻝﻁﺭﻱﻕ ﻑﺇﺫﺍ ﻡﺍﺕ
ﺕﻭﻝﻯ ﺕﺝﻩﻱﺯﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﻱﻥ )ﻉﻝﻱﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ)44
So, when the seventy years are completed death comes
to the Proof [of God], a woman from the Baní-Tamím
killes Him…with a mortar of stone from a rooftop as
he passes along/crosses the road. And when He dies
Husayn, may peace be upon Him, will administer His
burial arrangements.
References to Husayn being the One who administers the
Qá’im’s burial are frequent too:
ﺃﻥ ﻩﺫﺍ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﻱﻥ ﻕﺩ ﺥﺭﺝ ﺡﺕﻯ ﻝﺍ ﻱﺵﻙ ﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﻭﻥ ﻑﻱﻩ ﻭﺃﻥﻩ ﻝﻱﺱ ﺏﺩﺝﺍﻝ ﻭﻝﺍ
ﺵﻱﻁﺍﻥ، ﻭﺍﻝﺡﺝﺓ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﺏﻱﻥ ﺃﻅﻩﺭﻩﻡ ﻑﺇﺫﺍ ﺍﺱﺕﻕﺭﺕ ﺍﻝﻡﻉﺭﻑﺓ ﻑﻱ ﻕﻝﻭﺏ

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﻱﻥ ﺃﻥﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﻱﻥ  ﺝﺍﺀ ﺍﻝﺡﺝﺓ ﺍﻝﻡﻭﺕ ﻑﻱﻙﻭﻥ ﺍﻝﺫﻱ
ﺭﺕﻩ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﻱﻥ ﺏﻥ ﻉﻝﻱﻑﻱﻍﺱﻝﻩ ﻭﻱﻙﻑﻥﻩ ﻭﻱﺡﻥﻁﻩ ﻭﻱﻝﺡﺩﻩ ﻑﻱ ﺡ45
Truly, this Husayn has come forth that believers may
have no doubt in Him, that He is neither the Anti-
Christ nor Satan. And the Proof [Who is] the Qá’im is
among them. And when the recognition of the fact that
He is really Husayn, may peace be upon Him, is well
established in the hearts of the believers death comes to
the Proof. And Husayn b. ‘Alí becomes the one Who
washes Him, shrouds Him, embalms Him and puts
Him into His grave.
Numerous prophetic references to “309 years” are also found in
the sources:
ﻉﻝﻱﻩﻉﻥ ﺍﺏﻥ ﻡﺡﺏﻭﺏ ... ﻉﻥ ﺝﺍﺏﺭﺍﻝﺝﻉﻑﯼ ﻕﺍﻝ: ﺱﻡﻉﺕ ﺃﺏﺍ ﺝﻉﻑﺭ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ‏
:ﯼﻕﻭﻝ  ﻭ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻝﻱﻡﻝﮎﻥ ﻡﻥﺍ ﺃﻩﻝ ﺍﻝﺏﻱﺕ ﺭﺝﻝ ﺏﻉﺩ ﻡﻭﺕﻩ ﺙﻝﺍﺙﻡﺃﺓ ﺱﻥﺓ ﻭ ﻱﺯﺩﺍﺩ
ﺕﺱﻉﺍ ﻕﻝﺕ: ﻡﺕﻱ ﻱﮎﻭﻥ ﺫﻝﮎ ﻕﺍﻝ ؟: ﺏﻉﺩ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ ﻕﻝﺕ:  ﻭ ﮎﻡ ﻱﻕﻭﻡ ﺍﻝﻕﺍﺉﻡ
ﻑﻱ ﻉﺍﻝﻡﻩ ﻕﺍﻝ؟: ﺕﺱﻉ ﻉﺵﺭﺓ ﺱﻥﺓ46  ﺙﻡ ﻱﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﻡﻥﺕﺹﺭ ﺍﻝﻱ ﺍﻝﺩﻥﻱﺍ ﻭ ﻩﻭ
‏ﺱﻱﻥ ﻉﻝﻱﻩﺍﻝﺡ  ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﻑﻱﻁﻝﺏ ﺏﺩﻡﻩ ﻭ ﺩﻡ ﺃﺹﺡﺍﺏﻩ ﻑﻱﻕﺕﻝ ﻭ ﻱﺱﺏﻱ
ﺡﺕﻱ ﻱﺥﺭﺝ ﺍﻝﺱﻑﺍﺡ ﻭ ﻩﻭ ﺃﻡﻱﺭﺍﻝﻡﺅﻡﻥﻱﻥ47
Narrated through Jábir al-Ju’fí from…Ibn Mahbub,
who said: I heard Abu Ja‘far,48 may peace be upon him,
say the following: By God, verily a man from among Us
— members [of the Prophet’s] household, will rule three
hundred years after His death ‘and to that He will add
nine more.’ I said: When will this happen? He said:
After the Qá’im. I said: How long will the Qá’im stay
(lit.: stay upright) in His world? He said: Nineteen
years.49 Then there will arise in the world the Victorious
Who is the Husayn, may peace be upon Him, and seek
vengeance for Him (i.e., the Qá’im) and His
companions. Thus He will kill and enslave until there
arises the Generous Who is the Commander of the
Faithful;
ﻭﻉﻝﯼ ﺏﻥ ﻉﺏﺩﺍﻝﻝﻩ...ﺍﺯ ﺍﻡﺍﻡ ﻡﺡﻡّﺩ ﺏﺍﻕﺭ ﺭﻭﺍﯼﺕ ﻥﻡﻭﺩﻩ ﮎﻩ ﮎﻑﺕ ﻕﺍﯼﻡ ﺁﻝ ﻡﺡﻡّﺩ
ﺩﺭ ﺍﯼﻥﻡﺩّﺕ ﻡﺍﻝﮎ ﮎﻝ ﺯﻡﯼﻥ ﺥﻭﺍﻩﺩ ﺏﻭﺩ ﺱﯼﺹﺩ ﻭ ﻥﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﭖﺍﺩﺵﺍﻩﯼ ﺥﻭﺍﻩﺩ
ﮎﺭﺩ ﻭ ﺩﺭ ﺭﻭﯼ ﺯﻡﯼﻥ ﻩﻡﺍﻥﻕﺩﺭ ﮎﻩ ﺍﺹﺡﺍﺏ ﮎﻩﻑﺭﺍ ﻡﺩﺕ ﺥﻭﺍﻩﺩ ﺏﻭﺩ ﺕﺍ ﺭﻭﺯﯼ ﮎﻩ
ﭖﯼﺩﺍ ﺵﻭﻥﺩ...ﻭ ﺩﺭ ﺭﻭﺍﯼﺕ ﺩﯼﮎﺭ ﻩﻑﺕ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺱﻝﻁﻥﺕ ﮎﻥﺩ  ﮎﻩ ﻩﺭ ﺭﻭﺯﺵ ﺏﺭﺍﺏﺭ
ﺩﻩ ﺭﻭﺯ ﺏﺍﺵﺩ ﻭ ﻩﺭﻡﺍﻩﺵ ﺏﺭﺍﺏﺭ ﺩﻩ ﻡﺍﻩ ﻭﻩﺭ ﺱﺍﻝﺵ ﺏﺭﺍﺏﺭ ﺩﻩ ﺱﺍﻝ ﺥﻭﺍﻩﺩ ﺏﻭﺩ50

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
And
‘Alí
b.
‘Abdu’lláh…narrates
from
imám
Muhammad
Báqir
Who
said:
The
Qá’im
of
Muhammad’s Family will be the ruler over the whole
earth during that period. He will rule for three hundred
and nine years and will be on earth as long as the
companions of the Cave [did] until the day they were
found…In another version He will reign for seven years
and each of these days will equal ten days, each of the
months will equal ten months, each of these years will
equal ten years.
The sources also clearly indicate the period of 50,000 years:
...ﻉﻥ ﺃﺏﯼ ﻉﺏﺩﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﺃﻥﻩ ﻕﺍﻝ ﺡﯼﻥ ﺱﺉﻝ ﻉﻥ ﺍﻝﯼﻭﻡ ﺍﻝﺫﯼ ﺫﮎﺭ
ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻡﻕﺩﺍﺭﻩ ﻑﯼ ﺍﻝﻕﺭﺁﻥ“ﻑﯼ ﯼﻭﻡ ﮎﺍﻥ ﻡﻕﺩﺍﺭﻩ ﺥﻡﺱﯼﻥ ﺍﻝﻑ ﺱﻥﺓ”  ﻭ ﻩﯼ ﮎﺭﺓ
ﺭﺱﻭﻝ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﺹﻝﯼ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻉﻝﯼﻩ ﻭ ﺁﻝﻩ ﻑﯼﮎﻭﻥ ﻡﻝﮎﻩ ﻑﯼ ﮎﺭﺕﻩ ﺥﻡﺱﯼﻥ ﺃﻝﻑ
ﺱﻥﺓ51
[It is narrated] from Abu ‘Abdu’lláh,52 may peace be
upon Him, who when asked concerning the day whereof
the measure God mentioned in the Koran in the
following way: ‘in a day whereof the measure is fifty
thousand years,’53 said: ‘this is the return of the
Messenger of God, may peace be upon Him and His
family,’ thus, His reign upon His return will be fifty
thousand years.
And finally references to “Husayn covering His eyes at an old
age” are also found in the traditions:
ﻉﻥ ﺃﺏﻱ ﺝﻉﻑﺭ ﻉﻝﻱﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﻕﺍﻝ : ﺇﻥ ﺃﻭﻝ ﻡﻥ ﻱﺭﺝﻉ ﻝﺝﺍﺭﻙﻡ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﻱﻥ ﻉﻝﻱﻩ
ﻉﯼﻥﯼﻩ ﻡﻥ ﺍﻝﮎﺏﺭﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ﻑﻱﻡﻝﻙ ﺡﺕﻯ ﺕﻕﻉ ﺡﺍﺝﺏﺍﻩ ﻉﻝﻯ54
[It is narrated] from Abu Ja‘far, may peace be upon
Him, [Who] said: ‘The first one to return is your
protector55 Husayn, may peace be upon Him, and He
will rule until His eyebrows fall down upon His eyes
from old age’;56
ﻉﻥ ﺍﺏﻱ ﻉﺏﺩﺍﻝﻝﻩ ﻉﻝﻱﻩ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ...  : ﺇﻥ ﺃﻭﻝ ﻡﻥ ﻱﻙﺭ ﻑﻱ ﺍﻝﺭﺝﻉﺓ ﺍﻝﺡﺱﻱﻥ
ﺏﻥ ﻉﻝﻱ ﻉﻝﻱﻩﻡﺍ ﺍﻝﺱﻝﺍﻡ ، ﻭﻱﻡﻙﺙ ﻑﻱ ﺍﻝﺍﺭﺽ
ﺃﺭﺏﻉﻱﻥ ﺱﻥﺓ ﺡﺕﻯ ﻱﺱﻕﻁ ﺡﺍﺝﺏﺍﻩ ﻉﻝﻯ ﻉﻱﻥﻱﻩ57
[It is narrated] from Abu ‘Abdu’lláh, may peace be
upon Him, [Who said]: ‘verily, the first one to come

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
back upon the return [of the family of the Prophet] is
Husayn b. ‘Ali, may peace be upon both of them, and
He will stay on earth for forty years58 till His eyebrows
fall down upon His eyes.’
Thus every part of Shaykh Ahmad’s prophecy which we have
considered in this article is found elsewhere and the prominent
religious thinker simply collected them from well-known
sources. However, when the eschatological events related in
different traditions are put together precisely the way Shaykh
Ahmad did in his account, the correspondences between the
predictions and Bábí and Bahá’í history become most apparent:
The duration of His kingdom is seven years [the Báb
was martyred during the 7th year of His mission]. God
prolongs the days and nights that a year may become
equal to ten years. Because God, may He be praised,
commands the sphere[s] to slow down. Thus, the
duration of His kingdom [will be] seventy years
[counting] by these years. And when nine and fifty
years elapse since them Husayn, may peace be upon
Him, will come forth [1270 + 9 = 1279 — the year of
Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration; 1260 + 9 = 1269 — the year
when Bahá’u’lláh first received His revelation; 1260-
1309≈50 years — the Ministry of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh as the Twin Manifestations; 1266-1316 — 50
years elapsing from the Báb’s execution until His
remains arrived at their permanent destination]. So,
when the seventy years are completed death comes to
the Proof [of God], may peace be upon Him, a woman
from the Baní-Tamímkilles Him…with a mortar of
stone from a rooftop as he passes along the road. And
when He dies Husayn, may peace be upon Him, will
administer
His
burial
arrangements
[Bahá’u’lláh
outlived the Báb, Who was martyred, while Himself
died a natural death; Bahá’u’lláh took care of the
remains of the Báb]. After that [Husayn] rises for the
Cause [Bahá’u’lláh rose for the Cause after the Báb’s
martyrdom]…
And Yazíd b. Mu‘áviyyih and ‘Ubayd’u’lláh b. Ziyád…
and those who were content with their actions from the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
first to the last, may God curse them all, will assemble.
Then imám Husayn, may peace be upon Him, will kill
them and avenge upon them…until the enemies of
humankind from every region band together against
Him [Bahá’u’lláh challenged the old world order by His
powerful new teaching and the ‘enemies of humankind’
joined their efforts to oppose Him on a global
scale]…When the situation becomes increasingly grave
for Him then ‘Alí b. Abí Tálib, the Generous, the
Commander of the Faithful, may peace be upon Him,
will come forth with angels to assist Him [‘Husayn
joined by ‘Alí’ is a reference to Bahá’u’lláh (Husayn-
‘Alí)]. Thus, they will kill enemies of the religion
[Bahá’u’lláh prevailed over His enemies]. And ‘Alí will
stay with Husayn, His son, may peace be upon both of
them, for three hundred years and nine years
[Bahá’u’lláh (Husayn-‘Alí) stayed in the world till 1309
first receiving his Revelation nine years after the
martyrdom of ‘Alí (‘Alí-Muhammad), the Bab] as did
the companions of the Cave. Then ‘Ali will be struck
upon His head [‘Ali-Muhammad, the Bab was
martyred], may God curse His murderer. And Husayn,
may peace be upon Him, will remain supreme over the
religion of God [Bahá’u’lláh (Husayn- ‘Ali) outlived the
Báb and continued Their twin mission]. And the
period of His kingdom is fifty thousand years [50 000 ×
10 = 500 000 years — duration of Bahá’u’lláh’s cycle]
until He covers His eyebrows with a bandage being well
advanced in age [Bahá’u’lláh died a natural death at an
old age].
In conclusion, let us summarize the main points above. The
prophecy being considered, which was put together by Shaikh
Ahmad from different traditions, reveals a picture of real
historic events disguised in symbolic non-linear language. It is
largely based on a play upon the numbers and names following
in a certain significant, but not necessarily sequential, order.
The numbers and names form meaningful combinations in a
manner that does not preclude their components from
conveying separate messages as well. A special role is accorded
to the number “nine.” Thus one can identify indications of the
following events and time periods in Bábí and Bahá’í history:

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
1. The Báb will be martyred;
2. He will be martyred during the 7th year of His mission;
3. Bahá’u’lláh will outlive the Báb;
4. Bahá’u’lláh will take care of the Báb’s remains;
5. After the Báb’s martyrdom Bahá’u’lláh will rise to
continue Their twin ministry;
6. Bahá’u’lláh will challenge the old world order by His
powerful new teaching;
7. Bahá’u’lláh will face fierce opposition;
8. Bahá’u’lláh will prevail over His enemies, live until an old
age, and die a natural death;
9. Indications of years and periods:
a. 1270 + 9 = 1279: the year of Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration;
b. 1260 + 9 = 1269: the year when Bahá’u’lláh first received
His revelation;
c. 1309: the year of Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension;
d. 1260-1309≈50 years: the Ministry of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh as the Twin Manifestations;
e. 1266-1316: 50 years elapsing from the Báb’s execution
until His remains arrived at their permanent
destination;
f. 50,000 × 10 = 500,000 years: the duration of
Bahá’u’lláh’s cycle.59
Finally, the present writer is aware of the possible objections
to his interpretations on the grounds that the correspondences
suggested in the article could be seen as mere coincidences or
assumptions. The only counter-argument I can put forward to
my opponents is that such numerous “coincidences” within a
short passage of text raises the question of an underlying
objective reality. As for the assumptions, as long as I have been
consistent in my assumptions (which I believe I have) they are
at least not arbitrary. It would be relevant to remember that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Shaykh Ahmad — given his spiritual status acting under a
divine inspiration or guidance — could have consciously or
unconsciously presented a prophecy in a manner which would
include an account of real future events.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Amoli S. H., Jâmi' al-asrâr. — La Philosophie Shi'ite. 1. Somme de doctrines
ésotériques (Jâmi' al-asrâr) 2. Traité de la connaissance de l'être (Fî
ma'rifat al-wojûd). Textes publiés avec une double introduction et
index par H. Corbin et O. Yahia. Teheran-Paris, 1969.
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Iqán. The Book of Certitude. Tr. by Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
Effendi Sh. God Passes By. Introduction by G. Townshend: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. Fourth printing. Illinois, 1995.
Effendi Sh., The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991.
Al-Ha’iri A. Y. Ilzám al-Nasíb fi Ithbat al-Hujja al-Gha’ib, Karbila, 1963.
—
,
Muntaha
al-Maqal,
Iran,
1302.
Vol.
1-2
//
http://gadir.free.fr/Ar/Mahdi/Kutub/Ilzam_un-Nasib.exe
Hatcher W. S., Minimalism: A Bridge Between Classical Philosophy And
The Bahá’í Revelation. Hong Kong: Juxta Publishing LTD, 2004.
The Koran interpreted. Tr. with an Introduction by A. J. Arberry. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1998.
Lane E.W., Arabic-English lexicon; Stanley Lane-Poole. — New York:
Fredrick Ungar, 1955-1956
Lights of Guidance. Compiled by H. Hornby. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1983.
Majlisi
M.
B.,
Bihar
al-Anvar
//
http://www.aqaed.com/ahlulbait/books/behar53/
Majlisi M. B., Tadhkirat al-Ayimma (from the collection of the St.
Petersburg Institute of Oriental Manuscripts, number: Ps II 54,
lithograph dated 1860-1861).
Momen M. Messianic Concealment and Theophanic Disclosure // Online
Journal of Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 1, 2007, p. 71-88.
Rabbani A., Remains of the Bab in Tihran // http:// bahai-
library.com/histories/remains.bab.html
Sours.
M.,
Understanding
Biblical
Prophecy.
Preparing
for
a
Bahá’í/Christian Dialogue. Vol. 3. Oxford: Oneworld Pub., 1997.

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Shaykh ‘Ali Yazdi Ha’iri. Ilzám al-Nasíb fi Ithbat al-Hujja al-Gha’ib,
Karbila, 1963. — , Muntaha al-Maqal, Iran, 1302, p. 246 //
http://gadir.free.fr/Ar/Mahdi/Kutub/Ilzam_un-Nasib.exe
Tarikh Ma Ba‘d al-Zuhur // http://www.faydh.com/book6/tarekh/

NOTES
1 The St. Petersburg Institute of Oriental Manuscripts of the Russian
Academy of Sciences (former St. Petersburg Branch of the Institute of
Oriental Studies) has a vast collection of Shaykhi manuscripts (as well
as Bábí and Bahá’í). Most of the manuscripts containing works of
Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá’í and Siyyid Kázim Rashtí (50 works) originated
before the Báb’s Declaration in 1260 AH and therefore did not pass
through the hands of Karím-Khán Kirmání’s followers.
2 Since the subject of this article is limited to this passage, I will refer to it
as the “prophecy.”
3 The “Hayát al-Nafs” is a systematic outline of Shaykhi doctrines,
providing the basis for the “Usul-i-’Aqá’id.”
4 The first manuscript is undated, the other two are dated respectively:
1248/1832-33, 1242/1826-27.
5 The lithographs are dated: 1276/1859, 1279/1862.
6 W. S. Hatcher, Minimalism, p. 12.
7 Ibid, 12-13.
8 Ibid, 67-68.
9 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Iqán: The Book of Certitude, p. 254-255.
10 M.Sours, Understanding Biblical Prophecy, p. 31-34.
11 Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, ibid, p. 255.
12 M. Sours, ibid, p. 48.
13 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 101-102.
14 Lights of Guidance, p. 472.
15 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Iqán, p. 151. 154, 158-159, 161.
16 See Lights of Guidance, p. 496, 498, God Passes By, p. 94.
17 See God Passes By, p. 33.
18 Sours, ibid, p. 36.
19 Here and below translation mine.
20 In the MS the word is misspelled: ﺍﻝﺱﺏﻭﻉﻭﻉﻭﻥ .
21 In the MS the word is misspelled: ﺕﺡﺍﻭﻥ .
22 “Their” refers to the prophet Muhammad’s family/descendants — the
imáms.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

23 The imáms.
24 See God Passes By, p. 54 (here and below bold face mine)]
25 “His” refers to Bahá’u’lláh.
26 See God Passes By, p. 92, 104.
27 The principle of interpretation applied here is similar to the one
employed in the Bahá’í Writings for “the year sixty,” which is identified
with the year 1260, cf.: “In the year sixty, His Cause shall be made
manifest, and His name shall be proclaimed” [Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Iqán.
The Book of Certitude, p. 253].
28 This is an obvious error.
29 See also Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 100. The present author thanks
Kházeh Fanánápazír for sharing information about the Bihár al-Anvár
internet site.
30 See Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 147, cf. Ha’iri. Ilzám al-Nasíb, vol. 2, p.
322.
31 Cf. The Koran interpreted. Tr. with an Introduction by A. J. Arberry, p.
291.
32 In the other two manuscripts the name is: ﻉﺏﯼﺩ ﺍﻝﻝﻩ .
33 This is an obvious error (see the other two manuscripts).
34 The word is obviously misspelled.
35 The order of words in this compound number is strikingly unusual. The
normal order is: ﺙﻝﺍﺙﻡﺍﺉﺓ ﻭ ﺕﺱﻉ ﺱﻥﯼﻥ.
36 The imáms.
37 See God Passes By, p. 221.
38 See God Passes By, p. 91-92, 106-107 (bold face mine).
39 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 143 (here and below
bold face mine).
40 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes by, p. 274. See also A. Rabbani, Remains of
the Báb in Tihrán // bahai-library.com/histories/remains.bab.htm.
41 See Amoli, 441.
42 See Ilzám al-Nasíb, vol. 2, p. 246.
43 See Tárikh Ma Ba‘d al-Zuhur, p. 622.
44 See Ibid, p. 616.
45 See Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 94, cf. Ilzám al-Nasíb, vol. 2, p. 315,
Tárikh Ma Ba‘d al-Zuhur, p. 621.
46 In a different version: ﺕﺱﻉﺓ ﻉﺵﺭ ﻡﻥ ﯼﻭﻡ ﻕﯼﺍﻡﻩ ﺇﻝﯼ ﯼﻭﻡ ﻡﻭﺕﻩ.
47 See Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 145, cf. ibid, p. 100-101, 146-147, Ilzám al-
Nasíb, vol. 2, p. 318, 322.
48 Muhammad b. ‘Alí al-Báqir (Abu Ja‘far) — the 5th Shi’ih imám.

Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works

49 Nineteen years elapsed between the Báb’s and Bahá’u’lláh’s Declarations
(1260 AH — 1279 AH).
50 See Majlisi, Tadhkirat al-Ayimma, p. 216.
51 See Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 104, cf. Ilzám al-Nasíb, vol. 2, p. 310.
52 Abu ‘Abdu’lláh, i.e., imám Ja‘far al-Sádiq (the 6th imám).
53 Cf. the Koran 70: 4.
54 See Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 43-44, cf. ibid, 64.
55 One of the meanings of this word is “protector”. See Lane, Book I, Part
2, p. 483.
56 The present author thanks Mark Hellaby for consultation on the
translation of this and next quote.
57 See Bihár al-Anvár, vol. 53, p. 64.
58 Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry on earth from the time He first received His
revelation (1269 AH) until His ascension (1309 AH) lasted for 40 years.
Shoghi Effendi wrote: “The ascension of Bahá’u’lláh had plunged into
grief and bewilderment His loyal supporters, quickened the hopes of
the betrayers of His Cause…The Instrument He had forged, the
Covenant He had Himself instituted, had canalized, after His passing,
the forces released by Him in the course of a forty-year ministry, had
preserved the unity of His Faith and provided the impulse required to
propel it forward to achieve its destiny” [God Passes By, p. 404 (bold
face mine)].
59 As for the number “59,” also indicated in the prophecy, the only
interpretation I can suggest is that it might refer to the sum of both
the Báb’s and Bahá’u’lláh’s ministries: 19 + 40 (see also below). This
calculation would not be mathematical, for the 19 years of the Báb’s
dispensation include the 10 years which Moojan Momen defines as
Bahá’u’lláh’s
“Messianic
concealment”
(see
Momen,
Messianic
Concealment and Theophanic Disclosure, p. 71-88), thus already
included in the 40 years of Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry. Consequently, this
interpretation of the 59 year period would be based on counting the 10
years twice.

Textual Context and Literary Criticism:
A Case Study based on a Letter from Shoghi
Effendi1
Gerald Keil
Written replies by Shoghi Effendi, along with those written
on his behalf, include seminal statements of doctrine on a wide
range of topics, statements which are considered binding for
the Bahá’í community. It is currently the case that the vast
majority of such letters are generally accessible only in the form
of text compilations (in particular, Lights of Guidance2 and
Directives from the Guardian3), which do not include the
enquiries to which these letters constitute the responses. In
addition, the letters are generally presented not in their
entirety, but only in the form of selected extracts, these
moreover sub-divided into the smallest possible fragments and
re-ordered thematically. The fact that the ensuing well-nigh
complete dissociation of such fragments from their original
textual contexts represents an exorbitant loss of information,
a loss which can substantially influence the interpretation of
individual text passages, will be demonstrated in detail on the
basis of a particularly severe example which came to the fore
during the present writer’s research activities.
* * *
The text passage with which this presentation is primarily
concerned is a single sentence from a letter written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi4 on 15 May 1940:
As to which spot should be regarded as the standard,
this is a matter which the Universal House of Justice
will have to decide.5

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
It is not my intention here to explore the properties or the
practical application of the “spot [that] should be regarded as
the standard” as such — I have written about that extensively
elsewhere.6 My sole purpose is to explore whether this text
passage represents an unambiguous confirmation of the
indispensability of such a spot for the determination of the
day of Naw-Rúz as stipulated by Bahá’u’lláh, as is generally
assumed, or whether it could also be understood in some other
way. I have occupied myself intensively with this question on
two occasions separated by a gap of several years.
It must also be clarified from the very beginning that this
presentation will not concern itself with the veracity, i.e. the
objective accuracy, of any individual interpretation. That is a
judgement to which I am in any event not entitled. My interest
lies solely in the bandwidth of potential meaning — how this
statement might possibly be understood. This approach is
known as literary criticism (“literary” in the broad sense of
“anything written”). In this presentation, this term implies the
systematic analysis of the written word as a preliminary stage
of the process of exegesis7 and — to achieve clarity from the
very start — has nothing to do with criticism in the popular
sense of complaint or faultfinding. As a theological-scientific
activity this discipline is known in the West primarily through
Judeo-Christian scholarship (Talmudic commentary and Bible
criticism), but there is nothing preventing Bahá’í scholarship
from profiting from the rich experience of other traditions for
the study of its own writings — in the present case, Shoghi
Effendi’s correspondence. This suggestion is not new,8 but the
discussion in Bahá’í academic literature has until now more or
less concentrated on the methodology of — and problems
associated with — historical criticism of the writings of the
central figures of the Bahá’í Faith.9
While endeavouring in principle to maintain neutrality with
respect to the question of veracity, I will most certainly
address the question of the degree to which one or another
reading of a text passage is appropriate to the available textual
context in each individual circumstance. Such reflection
constitutes an inalienable aspect of literary criticism; without
it, analysis would be devoid of any appeal to reality, and any
exegesis which was based on such an analysis would be purely

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
arbitrary. Nevertheless, it must be stressed that the assessment
of the appropriateness of a given reading has nothing to do
directly with the question of its truth value, merely with its
hermeneutic feasibility within a given textual context.
This assessment necessarily involves critically examining the
reading under consideration for anomalies which it may imply
— and naming them by name. This candid use of language may
irritate some readers not accustomed to the methodology of
literary criticism, who could easily misinterpret this approach
as criticism of the guidance offered by the Guardian. It is
therefore important to stress that it is expressly not the
purpose of analysis to make inferences regarding the meaning
intended by its author, but rather to assess the potential
signification projected onto a text by the reader. Anomalies
invariably signal that something is wrong with the assumptions
underlying the reading, and they ideally indicate directions of
investigation which might resolve these anomalies, as was for
example the case in the study described in this presentation.
If the only information available to the critical reader is that
which comes from the text itself, then his judgement of the
appropriateness of a given reading will be based solely on text-
internal consistency. But there is virtually no such thing as a
text for which there is no external reference. At most,
mathematic expressions or statements of a propositional
calculus might perhaps be considered self-inclusive, but even
these make reference, at least implicitly, to the rules and
conventions by which they are governed and which are therefore
not understandable to anyone not acquainted with these rules.
In the case of texts in natural language, not only are the rules
and conventions of the metasystem involved — natural
language — incomparably more complicated, so too are the
relationships between individual texts and their linguistic and
factual environment multifarious, and not always easy to
identify. That is the reason why Christian exegetes, for
example, in the wake of nearly two thousand years of
preoccupation with scripture are still able to uncover novel
and unexpected facets of biblical narrative using the methods
of literary criticism.10

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
It is admittedly extremely difficult to quantify the
appropriateness of a given reading. But despite all subjectivity
necessarily involved in any such assessment, it is nevertheless
possible to subject the text to a set of individual questions and
in so doing to proceed in a structured manner, so that the
critical reader need not base his conclusions solely on holistic
and purely intuitive judgement. In the case of the corpus with
which this presentation is concerned — Shoghi Effendi’s
correspondence, which consists to a large part in letters
written in response to written enquiries from individuals or
from Spiritual Assemblies — the appropriateness of specific
readings can be investigated by subjecting them to questions
such as the following:
o Inner cohesion: Are the individual components of this
reading thematically, stylistically and objectively
consistent among themselves?
o Outer cohesion: Do the assertions implied by this
reading stand in concord with comparable assertions
from other written sources?11
o External cohesion: Does this reading accord with
system-external standards (experience and reason12)?
o Relevance: Does this reading address the main purpose
of the question which preceded it, so far as that
purpose can be ascertained?
o Commensurability: Does this reading leave the
impression that it answers the question(s) actually
asked?
o Completeness: Does this reading cover all of the issues
which were broached by the question which preceded
it?
o Motivation: Is each of the individual elements of this
reading prompted in some manner by the preceding
enquiry — especially with regard to the details (which
is, as we know, where the devil lies)?
o Terminological parallelism: Are terms which occur
both in this reading and in the preceding question

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
used in the same fashion, or if not, are terminological
differences explicitly topicalised?
o Symmetry: Does the answer reflect the character of the
preceding question? (a statement of general principle
as answer to the description of a special-case
problem, an explanation of administrative procedure
in response to a question about ethics, a theological
exposition where the questioner is uncertain about
correct demeanour, are examples of tendentially
inappropriate readings.)
o Language and knowledge level: Do the demands
implied by this reading correspond to the level of
perceptivity to be reasonably expected from the
enquirer? (a child should not be bombarded with an
“adult” answer; and a technically correct answer
which is understandable only to the specialist is only
then called for when the necessary background
knowledge and terminological competence can be
assumed on the part of the enquirer.)
This list, which is undoubtedly incomplete and capable of
improvement, serves in the first instance to concentrate the
focus on individual aspects of the text under examination. No
single aspect can be totally divorced from the others, and every
such text survey involves certain limitations. For example, lack
of inner cohesion of a reply might well be conditioned by the
haphazard structure of the original enquiry; a given reply might
be the sole existing statement in all of the writings to the theme
under discussion, so that either the possibility of comparison
with additional materials is not viable or the material which is
consulted for comparison leads to false associations or
conclusions; and the store of knowledge drawn from a broader,
predominantly secularly disposed culture is often insufficient
or even inappropriate as background for assessment of the
plausibility of a given statement from a Bahá’í point of view.
But the analysis of the communicative context suffers most
frequently
from
the
incompleteness
of
the
available
documentation: since in most cases only Shoghi Effendi’s
remarks are available, assumptions concerning the nature of
each respective preceding enquiry must be drawn on the basis

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
of the statement which has been formulated in response to it —
which means that application of the majority of the above
criteria would involve circular reasoning. And even when it is
available, the preceding enquiry represents a text which should
itself ideally be subjected to the scrutiny of literary criticism.
In the case of the particular text with which this
presentation is concerned (which as so far presented consists
of a single sentence), the potential for text-internal analysis is
correspondingly limited and the dependence on additional
sources of information all the greater. In the course of this
presentation the communicative context of this sentence will
grow step by step, and with each step the potential for
interpretation will expand, contract, become more specific —
and even contradict itself.
Once again: this presentation is not a discussion about the
“spot to be regarded as the standard”. This subject is merely the
vehicle for transporting the central thesis: that the effectivity
and reliability of exegesis is dependent on a textual context
which is as exhaustive as circumstances permit.
The first attempt
In the course of a study of the Badí‘ calendar which was
published in 2005,13 I investigated the future calendar ruling for
determining the day of Naw-Rúz, i.e. the day which carries the
nominal specification 1 Bahá’. This ruling was established
originally by the Báb in the Persian Bayán and subsequently
confirmed and rendered more precise by Bahá’u’lláh in the
Kitáb-i Aqdas. The Báb writes:
va án yawm ast keh shams montaqel mígardad az borj-e
˙úb be˙amal dar ˙ín-e ta˙víl cheh leyl váqi‘ shavad va
cheh nahár.14
This day is the day whereon the Sun passes from Pisces
into Aries at the moment of its passing, whether it be
night or day.15
Bahá’u’lláh’s statement differs in principle from that of the
Báb only in the fact that Bahá’u’lláh explicitly mentions sunset:

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
har rúz keh shams ta˙víl be˙amal shavad hamán yawm
‘eid ast agar cheh yek daqíqeh beh ghorúb mándeh
báshad.16
The festival of Naw-Rúz falleth on the day that the sun
entereth the sign of Aries, even should this occur no
longer than one minute before sunset.17
Despite differences in wording, both statements express the
same content, since the term “day” in the sense of “calendar
day” is understood to be the period of time between two
successive sunsets: this moment serves not only the Badí‘
calendar, but also for example the Islamic (hijrí) calendar as
delineator between two calendar days.
It certainly didn’t escape the notice of the early believers
that the procedure for determining New Year’s Day was very
similar to the corresponding procedure in connexion with the
Iranian National Calendar. Also called the Jalálí calendar or
simply “the solar calendar” (taqvím-e shamsí, to distinguish it
from the (Islamic) lunar calendar, taqvím-e qamarí), this
calendar has served since the twelfth Gregorian century as
house calendar in virtually all of Iran, in Afghanistan, in the
Shi‘ite regions of Iraq and in several adjoining regions of
Central Asia. It is thus easy to appreciate how Bahá’u’lláh’s
instructions would be understood by the early believers to
imply an adaption of the ruling to which they were already
accustomed, whereby the new ruling would differ from the old
in only one aspect: in the Iranian National Calendar,
determination of New Year’s Day is made on the basis of
midday,18 whereas in the Badí‘ calendar it is made on the basis
of sunset, the terms “midday” and “sunset” each denoting a
characteristic orientation of the sun as observed from some
agreed-upon geographical location. In the as yet unpublished
second part of his narrative, in which he presumably reflects
the views of the community of his time, Nabíl Zarandí (Nabíl-i
A‘zam) obviously shares this impression:
... yawm-e nawrúz hamán rúz ast keh beh qá‘ede-ye
taqvím-e írán dar shab yá rúz án rúz shams beh borj-e
˙amal várd shavad agar che yek daqíqe qabl az ghorúb-e
áftáb báshad bar khaláf-e qá‘ede-ye sábeq-e ahl-e írán

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
keh agar ta˙víl ba‘ad az zohr váqe‘ mishad rúz-e ba‘ad-
ra nawrúz qorár mídádand ...19
On the basis of the Iranian calendar, the day of Naw-
Rúz is the day on which the sun enters the sign of Aries,
whether at night or during the day, even if this happens
one minute prior to sunset, in contrast to the earlier
ruling in Iran, according to which one chose the
following day as Naw-Rúz if the shift [i.e. the transit
of the sun into the sign of Aries: my comment] should
occur after midday ... [my translation]
The similarities of Nabíl’s description with the texts of both
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb indicate that he was acquainted with,
and based his own text on, both versions. Admittedly, the
parallels in the English-language texts are partly the result of the
fact that the above translation has been undertaken with a view
to maintaining stylistic conformity with the existing official
translations of similar texts. Nevertheless, even in the Persian-
language originals the similarity in content can hardly be
overlooked.
All that remains of this passage, if one removes those parts
of it which are directly derived from the statements of the Báb
and Bahá’u’lláh, is the reference to the Jalálí calendar:
On the basis of the Iranian calendar ... [Badí‘ ruling] ...
in contrast to the earlier ruling in Iran, according to
which one chose the following day as Naw-Rúz if the
shift should occur after midday.
Nabíl asserts that the ruling of the Iranian National Calendar
serves as the basis (qá‘ede) for the corresponding Badí‘ ruling.
That might imply nothing more than that Nabíl felt the new
ruling easiest to explain on the model of the old ruling, with
which he could assume his readership was acquainted. But these
words could also possibly imply that, according to the
testimony of Nabíl, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh intentionally
adapted the existing Jalálí ruling to serve as the new Badí‘
ruling. This possibility is of course pure speculation, since a
confirmation on the part of the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh doesn’t
appear to exist in writing. Moreover, the assumption that a
direct relationship between the two calendar forms was

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
historically unavoidable would be tantamount to claiming that
a Manifestation of God is a child of his times, dependent on
models from his immediate social and cultural environment.
But even without support from this speculation, it is easy to
appreciate how the undeniable similarity of the two New Year
rulings would indeed foster the conclusion that they are meant
to be equivalent in all details except for that one aspect which
the Báb explicitly altered.
It is perhaps precisely such considerations which resulted in
the assumption that, prior to activation, Bahá’u’lláh’s ruling
would have to be supplemented with the nomination of a
particular spot on Earth which would serve as the reference for
the determination of Naw-Rúz. After all, this expectation was
in accord with the experience of the early believers with respect
to no less than two of the other calendars with which they were
intimately familiar: not only is the determination the day of the
equinox and therewith the Jalálí New Year accomplished with
reference to a particular geographical location, the precise spot
on Earth of the sighting of the new moon also plays a decisive
rôle in the Islamic calendar both for the determination of 1
Mu˙arram (the nominal start of the Islamic year) and for the
commencement and duration of the month of fasting.
Once it had become engrained community-wide — a state of
affairs which was without doubt consummated very early in
the history of the Faith — this assumption would quickly
assume the character of a tacit agreement. From that time
onward, the only detail which would still remain open to
speculation would be the location to be selected. Given the
already existing possibilities in Iran and Iraq, and subsequent
to the interment of Bahá’u’lláh’s earthly remains in Bahjí, the
erection of the Schrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel and the
establishment of the Bahá’í World Centre in Haifa, discussion
would have focussed to such a degree on the multitude of
possibilities available that the original assumption which
generated the demand for this supply of candidates in the first
place would hardly have been subjected to further scrutiny. The
community would only have to remain patient until an
authoritative decision in favour of one or another of the
potential reference spots had been taken.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Meanwhile, the proliferation of the teachings with respect to
the spot took its inevitable course: from Iran and the Near
East, the teaching spread over the entire globe and was
inculcated among peoples who had no knowledge of the Iranian
National Calendar and therefore no possible insight into the
history of the consensus opinion of which they were being
informed, an opinion which perforce mutated for them into an
apodictic truth.
* * *
It was no real hardship for the community to postpone the
final decision indefinitely, since by virtue of the provisional
coordination of the determination of the day of Naw-Rúz with
the
properties
of
existing
mainstream
calendars,
the
community possessed a practicable interim solution. It
therefore comes as no particular surprise to note that, up until
the appearance of the letter of 15 May 1940 written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
United States and Canada, nearly seventy years after the Kitáb-
i Aqdas was revealed, the spot appears to have received not a
single mention — neither in the writings and letters of
Bahá’u’lláh nor in those of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or Shoghi Effendi. In
spite of that, in the letter of 15 May 1940 Shoghi Effendi could
rest assured that the members of the National Spiritual
Assembly were acquainted with the concept of the “spot”.
Over and above the fact that it is to be “regarded as the
standard” (a condition of which the Spiritual Assembly was no
doubt already aware), in this letter there is no further
elucidation regarding the “spot”. Not that it was in any way a
pressing issue: every Bahá’í, then as now, knew all too well how
important “the spot to be regarded as the standard” was — even
though it might not at all be clear to him just what function
this spot is supposed to fulfil. Calendar details feature among
the favourite topics of conversation among those interested in
hearing about the Faith. The Badí‘ calendar always goes down
well; it serves admirably as an easily recognisable group-
defining feature of the community for individuals who are not
really able to cope yet with the more spiritual aspects of the
Bahá’í Religion. Moreover, the pleasing symmetry of the
nineteen nineteen-day months and the flexibility of the

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
intercalary days in achieving parity with the solar year are
immediately obvious to those who, if truth be told, could never
really appreciate why, in their “own” calendar, the extra day in
a leap year should be attached seemingly arbitrarily onto the
end of the curiously undersized month of February. The Badí‘
calendar sports one blemish, however: the cycle of the year is
determined (in the West) according to the dictates of the
Gregorian calendar. Were it not for the pending nomination of
a spot, this situation would be an embarrassing admission of
dependency on the very time calibration system which the Badí‘
calendar is meant to replace. As it is, however, the Gregorian
calendar serves the purposes of the Badí‘ calendar, not the other
way around: as soon as we Bahá’ís decide for ourselves and on
our own terms that the time is ripe, this interim measure will be
cast aside.
Since the expectations placed in the future nomination of a
spot play such an important rôle in the maintenance of a
positive public image of the community, and since the firm
belief in the necessity of the spot has such a long history, one
which reaches right back to the earliest phases of the Bábí
Revelation, it is hardly surprising that the mere mention of the
spot on the part of Shoghi Effendi would be automatically,
indeed gratefully taken up as confirmation of a conviction
which in any case predominated in the community. For
example, the editors of the Kitáb-i Aqdas conclude, apparently
on the strength of that one sentence quoted at the beginning of
this presentation, the following:
The Guardian has stated that the implementation,
worldwide, of the law concerning the timing of Naw-
Ruz will require the choice of a particular spot on earth
which will serve as the standard for the fixing of the
time of the spring equinox. He also indicated that the
choice of this spot has been left to the decision of the
Universal House of Justice.20
Although an editorial commentary in no way carries the same
import as the divine revealed word, by virtue of its occurrence
in the official release of the holiest work of the Bahá’í
Revelation this commentary takes on a certain normative
authority. It can be quoted, cited in evidence, and with

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
reference to the supervisory function of the Universal House of
Justice even adorned with the aura of inerrancy. In this
fashion, what started out as an uncritical assumption and
became in stages a consensus opinion, a tacit agreement and an
apodictic
truth,
ultimately
takes
on
the
quality
of
authoritative doctrine.
It is not my purpose, neither here nor anywhere else, to
question the potential correctness of this reading of the
sentence from Shoghi Effendi’s letter of 15 May 1940. In
particular, the concern of the current presentation is literary
criticism, not exegesis; in other words, it is about the total
meaning potential inherent in any given text, and not about
what that text is ultimately supposed to mean. My intention is
to describe the stages of my investigation of this statement of
Shoghi Effendi’s in its own right, divorced from the question
of assessment of truth — a process which involves among other
things ignoring whatever interpretation has heretofore been
assigned to it, however self-evident this advance judgement
might appear.21
* * *
The conduct of this investigation was not devoid of ulterior
motives. In the course of my aforementioned study of the Badí‘
calendar, I wanted to present a technically feasible alternative
to the reference-spot method and to discuss the respective
advantages of the two methods. In face of the predominance
and more recently the implied doctrinal authority of the
consensus opinion, I felt it necessary to provide myself with
insurance against the potential reproach that I had ignored the
clear instructions of Shoghi Effendi. In the end, I didn’t have
to look very far for my immediate purposes: it was enough to
point out that Shoghi Effendi had characterised the spot as a
“matter”. Had he instead said something like “the Universal
House of Justice will decide on a suitable location for the
spot”, then the situation would have been clear: it would indeed
have been merely a question of nomination. But in light of the
word “matter”, this passage can legitimately be taken to imply
in the first instance a decision concerning the issue of the spot,
and only thereafter, if appropriate, its location.

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
This interpretation is admittedly anything but cogent, since
the word “matter” can just as easily be interpreted as a place-
holder for the entire phrase “which spot should be regarded as
the standard”, i.e. devoid of independent lexical meaning.
Therefore, in support of my further objective — the
stimulation of a serious discussion about alternative methods
for the future determination of New Year — something more
tangible than that which the isolated sentence produced would
have served my purposes quite nicely.
The next step consisted of considering this sentence in the
context of the complete paragraph of the letter of 15 May 1940
in which it occurs. This paragraph reads as follows:
Regarding Naw-Ruz: if the vernal equinox falls on the
21st of March before sunset it is celebrated on that
day. If at any time after sunset, Naw-Ruz will then, as
stated by Bahá’u’lláh, fall on the 22nd. As to which
spot should be regarded as the standard, this is a
matter which the Universal House of Justice will have
to decide. The American National Spiritual Assembly
need not therefore take any action in this matter at
present.
This passage is the response to a written enquiry by the then
National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada
directed to Shoghi Effendi, a copy of which I had tried in vain
to obtain while preparing the manuscript for publication in
German. It is most probably the case that I am personally
responsible for this failure. Having already made liberal use of
the services of the Research Department of the Bahá’í World
Centre in the course of my researches, I decided to direct my
enquiry to the secretariat of the National Spiritual Assembly in
Wilmette — the successor organisation to that which authored
the original letter — and thus avoid stretching the patience of
the World Centre even further. Presumably due to limitations
in the services available to researchers, my enquiry did not
produce the result I was banking on. Eventually, preparations
for publication of the study reached such an advanced stage
that a substantial alteration to the text would no longer be
possible, and this project lost momentum. For clues regarding
the content of this unseen enquiry I thus had no other option

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
than to rely on inferences drawn from the formulation of
Shoghi Effendi’s response.
* * *
The three-part structure of this passage is obvious at first
glance. The first portion is in effect a reformulation of the law
presented in the Kitáb-i Aqdas:
Regarding Naw-Ruz: if the vernal equinox falls on the
21st of March before sunset it is celebrated on that
day. If at any time after sunset, Naw-Ruz will then, as
stated by Bahá’u’lláh, fall on the 22nd.
The second portion is the reference to the “spot”, discussed
above:
As to which spot should be regarded as the standard,
this is a matter which the Universal House of Justice
will have to decide.
Finally, the third portion is a sort of guideline:
The American National Spiritual Assembly need not
therefore take any action in this matter at present.
This structure implies a corresponding multi-part enquiry:
o How is Naw-Rúz to be determined? — perhaps
expressed in the form: Under what circumstances
should Naw-Rúz deviate from 21 March? — followed
possibly by:
o When, or under what conditions, will a decision be
made about the spot? — and perhaps concluding with
the question:
o What
measures
should
the
National
Spiritual
Assembly of the United States and Canada undertake
in anticipation of such a decision?
The above speculation can be varied indefinitely, but Shoghi
Effendi’s response appears in any case to consist of two pieces
of information and one suggestion for action. In light of the
portion of the reconstructed enquiry with which it is
associated, though, this concluding suggestion is somewhat

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
puzzling: one would normally take it as a matter of course that
the National Spiritual Assembly would abide by any
instruction currently in force until such time as it is explicitly
superceded by another. It is therefore plausible to imagine that
the instruction to refrain from taking action is simply a
formulaic closing remark. Perhaps the Spiritual Assembly
didn’t even pose the question whether it should take any action
or not — or if so, then perhaps it was merely meant rhetorically,
just as the answer it prompted sounds rhetorical. It would
appear that the editors of Lights of Guidance came to a similar
conclusion, since in their version the final sentence was
omitted.
In anticipation of this closing instruction, the second part
(concerning the spot) seems to function primarily as a
rationalisation for the postponement of this decision until
some indefinite point of time in the future. Thus understood,
and in the event that the Spiritual Assembly didn’t itself broach
the issue, it provides a conceivable motivation for the fact that
the spot is mentioned at all in the response, even though
nothing in addition is revealed about the function or
particulars of the spot itself.
With regard to the first part, it is difficult to imagine just
why Bahá’u’lláh’s New Year ruling is presented in the manner in
which it occurs here. It is hardly surprising to find a reference
to the Gregorian calendar in a letter addressed to Bahá’ís in the
West, but it is indeed somewhat curious that only one of many
inevitable scenarios has been singled out for mention. As a
consequence of the Gregorian leap year formula, the vernal
equinox can occur in fact on 19, 20, 21 or 22 March, depending
on the year and the nominal location on Earth. The moment of
the vernal equinox — the so-called vernal point, or point of
Aries — is presented in the standard reference works exact to
the minute in UT (Universal Time, for the present purposes
synonymous
with
Greenwich
Mean
Time).
This
time
specification applies by definition to the null meridian, or in
other words, it indicates the time at longitude zero, which runs
through the middle of Greenwich, a suburb of London. Should
the point of Aries occur in a given year at, say, 17:45 UT (5:45
p.m. GMT), then at this moment the sun has already set in
Middle Europe but not for example in Ireland, Spain, Portugal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
and a large proportion of France. The further away from the
null meridian a given location lies, the greater is the probability
that a day shift must be reckoned with, i.e. either a Gregorian
date change (based on midnight) or a Badí‘ one (based on
sunset), or both. Shoghi Effendi provides no details concerning
how this potentially complicated day shift effects the
determination of New Year in all these situations, nor does he
mention the special conditions which obtain in the polar
regions. All in all, this excerpt from the letter of 1940 leaves one
somewhat ill at ease: as methodology for the future application
of the revealed New Year ruling it is virtually useless.
Had these two sentences been addressed to an individual
(and non-Persian) believer who, purely out of personal interest
or curiosity, wanted to know something about the future
determination of New Year, then the explanation for this
apparent carelessness would be clear: in all probability the
poser of the question would have been acquainted his whole life
long with no other calendar than the Gregorian, perhaps not
even aware that it has a name. His choice of words might well
have left the impression that he was not particularly versed in
matters of astronomy, and an all too abstract or technical
answer might have been too much for him to handle. In short,
there are understandable grounds for assuming that, in his
answer to such an enquiry, Shoghi Effendi would have made
reference to 21 March in this fashion — as if the matter really
were that simple, and as if Gregorian date specification were
an absolute scale against which other, in this case Badí‘, time
expressions are to be measured. And since in any case the
application of the law did not lie in the domain of
responsibility of this individual, there would be no necessity
for providing a lengthy and involved explanation which, while
encompassing all conceivable circumstances, would probably
include far more that the enquirer really wished to know.
But Shoghi Effendi is not writing here to an individual, but
rather to a National Spiritual Assembly, indeed to that of the
largest Bahá’í community at that time outside of Iran. For this
reason alone one ought to be justified in assuming that Shoghi
Effendi’s remarks are being directed to a technically proficient
readership, and that they are not intended simply to satisfy
someone’s casual curiosity, but rather to serve as instructions

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
which are to be put into practice at some future time (as the
words “at present” suggest). In light of the words “The
American National Spiritual Assembly need not therefore take
any action in this matter” it could be argued, albeit somewhat
strained, that this passage doesn’t have to do with instructions
for action, but at best with instructions for inaction. Yet this
objection would have been more convincing if Shoghi Effendi
had dispensed entirely with a description of the ruling: silence
would then have been preferable to disinformation. And
finally, it can be seen that the level of communication is quite
simply inappropriate: neither do these sentences pay justice to
the level of knowledge which may rightly be assumed on the part
of a National Spiritual Assembly together with the consultative
resources at its disposal, nor does this reading reflect the care
and preciseness characteristic of Shoghi Effendi.
A possible explanation for these apparent shortcomings is
provided by the existence of an article which bears the title
“Additional Material gleaned from Nabíl’s Narrative (Vol. II),
Regarding the Bahá’í Calendar”. This article appeared in every
volume of The Bahá’í World from vol. III (1928 — 1930) until
vol. XX (1986 — 1992). The close collaboration of the Guardian
on this article is documented in writing, and it is in fact highly
probable that Shoghi Effendi was its author.22 An excerpt from
this article explains:
The day of Naw-Rúz falls on the 21st of March only if
the vernal Equinox precedes the setting of the sun on
that day. Should the vernal Equinox take place after
sunset, Naw-Rúz will have to be celebrated on the
following day.
This excerpt is based on the passage from Nabíl’s narrative
quoted earlier. A comparison of both renditions quickly reveals
that the excerpt is far from a translation; it is in fact a
complete new formulation. This situation is in itself a
convincing indicator of Shoghi Effendi’s participation — no
other individual would have undertaken such a liberal
reformulation of a passage from a work which had been
compiled at the behest of Bahá’u’lláh himself — and
demonstrates to what lengths Shoghi Effendi went to target his
intended readership. The choice of words in The Bahá’í World

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
is, as it is formulated in a letter from the Bahá’í World Centre,
not a translation, but rather “a partial paraphrase that
highlights the essential information or principle gleaned from
the Persian text in order to clarify the Bahá’í Naw-Rúz for
Persian and non-Persian Bahá’ís and for non-Bahá’í readers of
The Bahá’í World”.23 The language used and the degree of prior
knowledge assumed is appropriate to the range of readership
for which the passage was written.
The parallels between these two sentences and the first two
sentences of the passage from the letter of 1940 are surely not
pure coincidence. Whilst putting together material for letters
to be sent on his behalf, Shoghi Effendi’s secretaries would
routinely access archives of correspondence and other written
sources in search of appropriate text passages which the
Guardian had already written or approved. It is therefore
plausible that this excerpt from the article in The Bahá’í World,
which had been written some ten years earlier, served directly or
indirectly as a template for the corresponding passage of the
letter of 1940. Apparently, a secretary adopted this already
available text with a minimum of re-wording in order to spare
Shoghi Effendi from unnecessary expense of his limited
resources of time and energy. However, it still remains a
mystery, in light of the difference between the expected degree
of perceptibility of the members of a National Spiritual
Assembly and that of a non-Bahá’í readership, why Shoghi
Effendi let these sentences go through as they did.
The only formulation which has been added to the text from
The Bahá’í World is the insertion “as stated by Bahá’u’lláh”.
However, Nabíl explains in his narrative that he gleaned this
information from the Kitáb-i-Asmá’, which was revealed by the
Báb. In other words, this insertion seems misleading. Perhaps
Shoghi Effendi simply wanted to make it clear that Bahá’u’lláh
had confirmed this ruling. In light of the impracticability of
the rest of the formulation, however, it is hard to imagine why
Shoghi Effendi felt the need at all to include this additional
remark.
* * *

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
For the purpose of literary critical analysis it has so far been
possible to expand the context to include four text passages
which preceded the letter of 1940:
o the New Year ruling of the Báb from the Persian
Bayán;
o the New Year ruling of Bahá’u’lláh from the Kitáb-i
Aqdas;
o the statement from part II of Nabíl’s Narrative; and
o the article from The Bahá’í World volumes II - XX
(1928-1992).
This extended field of information has led in certain respects
to an improvement of our understanding of the passage in the
letter of 1940: the relationship between the passage and the
divine law has become clearer, the provenience of the consensus
opinion regarding the spot has been identified, and the source
text for the problematic first two sentences has been
discovered. Nevertheless, one cannot deem this passage from
Shoghi Effendi’s letter of April 1940 to be a paragon of clear
and unambiguous communication — at least not in accordance
with the impression left by the greatly expanded but still
incomplete communicative context. The suspicion has grown
that the problems presented by this text cannot be
satisfactorily resolved without examination of the original
enquiry.
The Second attempt
In preparation for the English-language edition of my study
a few years later, I obtained a copy of the original letter of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada
from the Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre. It
was explained to me that the letter of 1940 consisted not just of
this one question, but rather contained “a large number of
questions about different aspects of the Bahá’í Faith and the
operation of its Administrative Order.”24 This information
alone made the situation more transparent: in the face of a
considerable number of individual questions, and in view of
the pressure of time which bore constantly on the Guardian, it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
is not unreasonable to assume that Shoghi Effendi might rely
on the preparatory researches of his secretary and dispense with
an extensive revision of each and every passage of a letter of
this size written on his behalf — in particular, those individual
responses which were either of diminished importance or which
did not entail any immediate consequences. Obviously, these
conditions applied at least partially to the question regarding
the New Year ruling, the inappropriateness of whose
presentation is therefore at least understandable: it was
necessary under those combined circumstances to leave the
sentences which had been virtually lifted from The Bahá’í World
as they were.
* * *
The reference to “a large number of questions” motivated me
to look for answers to other questions in this letter. An Ocean
search in Lights of Guidance for text passages which had been
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the United States and Canada on 15 May 1940
resulted in four hits in total: not exactly a “large number”
(from which we may surmise that only a small selection of items
from this letter is included in this compilation), but
nevertheless sufficient to gain an impression of the bandwidth
of topics for which answers were being sought.25 Of course it is
only an assumption that all four extracts come from the same
letter; but if they do not, then that merely means that Shoghi
Effendi answered up to five separate enquiries from the
American National Spiritual Assembly on the same day, of
which at least one included “a large number of questions”. And
so it remains the case in any event that Shoghi Effendi was
burdened with the task of supplying answers to a large number
of questions or alternatively to the same large number plus four
or more, all on the same day and presumably during the same
working session, and it is irrelevant for the purpose of the
discussion to speculate which excerpt was written in reference
to which theoretically existing letter.
Of these four excerpts, three have nothing do with the spot.
They read as follows:
Regarding the interpretation of mental unfitness, this
is not the same as being physically incapacitated. By

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
the latter is meant a condition much more serious than
any temperamental deficiency or disinclination to
conform to the principle of majority rule. Only in rare
cases when a person is actually unbalanced, and is
admittedly proved to be so, should the right of
membership be denied him. The greatest care and
restraint should be exercised in this matter.26
Regarding the age of fifteen fixed by Bahá’u’lláh; this
relates only to purely spiritual functions and
obligations and is not related to the degree of
administrative capacity which is a totally different
thing, and is, for the present, fixed at twenty-one.27
In connection with the selection of particular
photographs of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for circulation among the
friends, the Guardian strongly feels that no definite
ruling should be laid down establishing the superiority
or distinction of any particular photograph. The
friends should be left quite free to use their individual
independent judgement in this matter.28
We will take a closer look at these passages, with the intention
of identifying the degree to which Shoghi Effendi was involved
in their formulation, using criteria which he himself validated:
Although the secretaries of the Guardian convey his
thoughts and instructions, … their words are in no
sense the same as his [and] their style certainly not the
same, ... for they use their own terms and not his exact
words in conveying his messages.29
Since we possess a vast corpus of authentic material from
Shoghi Effendi, we are in a good position to analyse these
passages with respect to their degree of conformity with his
writing style. I contend that much in these excerpts falls short
of Shoghi Effendi’s level of language competence, as several
examples will amply demonstrate:
Regarding the interpretation of mental unfitness, this
is not the same as being physically incapacitated.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The antecedent of the word “this” can only be “the
interpretation of mental unfitness”. In other words, this
sentence is inadvertently claiming that a certain act of
judgement (interpreting mental unfitness) is not the same thing
as a certain state of existence (being physically incapacitated).
And quite aside from this totally nonsensical observation, the
word “interpretation” is problematic: it should be either (a)
“meaning” or “definition”, (b) “identification” or “prognosis”,
(c) “ramifications” or “consequences”, or (d) “assessment” or
“toleration”, depending on what is actually meant. And that is
not all:
Only in rare cases when a person is actually
unbalanced, and is admittedly proved to be so, should
the right of membership be denied him.
It is the state of being unbalanced, not someone’s admission to
the fact, which is grounds for the denial of membership. There
can be no doubt that Shoghi Effendi could easily have found a
more appropriate term, such as “officially”, “medically”,
“professionally”, “conclusively”, “reliably”, “demonstrably”, to
name only a few.
Incidentally, the expression is “cases where”, not “cases
when” — as Shoghi Effendi well knew: the former occurs for
example in Advent of Divine Justice and World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, the latter only in letters which were written on his
behalf.
This sentence quite simply doesn’t match up to the habitual
fastidiousness of Shoghi Effendi’s writing style. The Guardian
was only too well aware that the believers hung on every word
from him and that a careless utterance could have disasterous
consequences.
The second excerpt likewise features a rich series of
solecisms:
... the degree of administrative capacity [missing
comma] which is a totally different thing, [superfluous
comma] and [missing “which”] is, for the present,
fixed at twenty-one.

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
Instead of “degree of administrative capacity” it should read
for example “the age at which aptitude for administrative
activity may be assumed”. As it stands, the reader is obliged to
imagine a scale of degrees of “administrative capacity” (which
presumably means capacity for administration) ranging from,
say, 1 to at least twenty-one. According to this statement, the
“fifteen” of this scale does not mean the same thing as “fifteen”
as passage of time since birth. Naturally, when one reads such a
message one mentally carries out the adjustments necessary to
disentangle the botched semantics, a process which is so
automatic that one is usually not even aware that it is taking
place — nor is one generally cognizant of the danger of
misconstruction which it encourages. But at the moment we
are concerned solely with the question of authorship. One will
search in vain for such dubious prose in letters which are
known to have been written personally by Shoghi Effendi.
The missing word “which” results in an ungrammatical
sentence structure: the “is” of “is a totally different thing” is a
copula, whereas the “is” of “is fixed at twenty-one” is a passive
auxiliary. However commonplace it might be among native
English speakers, this error is not characteristic of Shoghi
Effendi. The missing comma transforms a parenthetic relative
clause into a modifying one, thereby distorting the meaning: as
it stands, there must exist at least one additional scale which is
not “a totally different thing”. And finally, the superfluous
comma is an example of punctuation in accordance with
sentence rhythm instead of grammatical function: most likely
an indication that the originator of the sentence — in contrast
to Shoghi Effendi — was not well versed or practiced in the
formal rules of punctuation in English. With regard to the
ungrammatical semicolon, it should be noted that the same
passage in Directives from the Guardian features a colon
instead. It is therefore not possible to ascertain whether the
one version is an error on the part of the editor of the
compilation, or the other version an editorial correction.
The total correctness of the third of these three excerpts
stands in striking contrast to the overabundance of errors in
vocabulary, diction, punctuation and syntax in the first two.
One need not look far for the reason, which is to be found in
the words “the Guardian strongly feels”. In this case it is a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
matter which Shoghi Effendi considers to be relatively
important — important enough to take the time, it would seem,
to examine the formulation more carefully and to improve or
re-write the text as necessary.
In consideration of the Guardian’s precise, accurate and
grammatically flawless English writing style, there is enough
text-internal evidence to suggest that, in this letter of reply, we
have to do with varying configurations of authorship: passages
which the secretary had formulated largely autonomously and
which Shoghi Effendi let through despite glaring language
deficiency, alongside a passage which shows clear signs of the
Guardian’s collaboration. The situation with respect to the
fourth excerpt from the letter of 15 May 1940, i.e. the passage
which describes the New Year ruling, remains unclear. It has
already been established that this passage consists partly of
existing material, and this fact suggests the collaboration of
the secretary. To what degree is this passage based on Shoghi
Effendi’s instructions, and to what degree was Shoghi Effendi
actively involved in its composition?
There is a certain amount of text-internal evidence, both
positive and negative, which speaks for an active participation
on the part of Shoghi Effendi. The interpolated remark “as
stated by Bahá’u’lláh” can for example be taken as positive
evidence: since the source of the paragraph in which it occurs
seems to be a paraphrase of a text which is not even from
Bahá’u’lláh (note: this assumption will be reexamined later), it
would have been alone the prerogative of Shoghi Effendi to
decide if these words could be identified with Bahá’u’lláh
himself. Conversely, there is negative evidence which also speaks
for an active intervention on the part of the Guardian: namely,
the absence of solecisms of the sort which were present with
such prolific abandon in the first two of the excerpts examined
above. However, this evidence presents another puzzle: If one
assumes that Shoghi Effendi was involved in the formulation,
then one is forced to ascribe the ultimate responsibility for the
earlier discussed incongruencies in content to the Guardian.
This attitude is problematic — not on account of the
infallibility of the Guardian,30 but simply because such lapses
of communication are totally uncharacteristic of him. There
must be other factors involved to explain why the text took the

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
form which it took, factors which cannot be discovered or
imagined on the basis of text-internal clues.
Consideration of further excerpts from the letter of 15 May
1940 has led once again to new insights — not only about the
scope of the letter in general, but also specifically with regard
to the passage concerning the New Year regulation and the rôle
Shoghi Effendi possibly played in its creation. Nevertheless,
these new insights also bring with them new problems without
really resolving the old ones. In particular, the extended textual
context does not offer any help in the crucial matter of the
interpretation of the sentence in which the spot is mentioned.
* * *
In
addition
to
that
remark
concerning
the
comprehensiveness of the letter from the American National
Spiritual Assembly, the Research Department of the Bahá’í
World Centre provided me with a copy of the specific
paragraph to which the passage in the letter of 15 May 1940
regarding the New Year ruling is the response. It reads:
The ... Chicago Assembly suggests that the NSA
determine the correct date of Naw-Rúz astronomically
and notify the believers in advance, to prevent
confusion. The Egyptian statement declares that Naw-
Rúz begins when the sun enters the sign of Aries, and
the reckoning of the beginning of spring is made by the
astronomical observatories for years in advance. The
NSA could obtain the information from the Naval
Observatory each year. However, the question is raised
whether the determination of Naw-Rúz should come
from the Bahá’í World Center.
This paragraph came as a complete surprise in every respect. It
is not difficult to recognise that this text is totally unlike
anything which had been possible to reconstruct on the basis of
the textual clues in Shoghi Effendi’s response alone. The text is
in fact not an enquiry at all, but rather a suggestion. Only
incidentally, and right at the very end, a last remaining
question is aired — as if the dispensation of responsibility for
the carrying out of the suggestion were open to discussion, but
not the suggestion itself.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
This text makes implicit but nonetheless unmistakable
reference to the Gregorian calendar. Since Naw-Rúz always
coincides with 1 Bahá’,31 the date designation according to the
Badí‘ calendar does not need to be determined. It follows that
the expression “determine the correct date of Naw-Rúz” can,
strictly speaking, only mean the date in some other calendar
system; in the Western world that would be the Gregorian by
default. Even if Shoghi Effendi suspected a slip of tongue — the
enquirer perhaps really meant “day” and not “date” — he
understandably responded to what was actually said.
The “Egyptian statement” mentioned in this suggestion is a
document which had been compiled in the early thirties of the
twentieth century by the National Spiritual Assembly of Egypt
and the Sudan. (The historical — and historic — significance of
this document, which has been described by Shoghi Effendi in
detail,32 is not directly relevant to the current examination.)
The original document was photographically reproduced in
1936 in The Bahá’í World,33 followed in 1940 by a Persian-
language translation.34 This document, which is principally
concerned with Bahá’í marriage and inheritance law, contains
only one paragraph which deals with the calendar in any way
(article 52). It is essentially a paraphrase of the divine law as
explained in the Kitáb-i Aqdas.35 The Arabic-language original
reads:36
tanqasimu’s-sannaτu’l-Bahá’íaτ ilá tis‘aτ ’ashr shahran
khiláfa’l-ayyámi’z-zá’idaτ wa tabtadi’u bi-dukhúli’sh-
shams fí burji’l-˙amal wa yakúnu ra’isu’s-sannaτ
huwa’l-yawmu’lladhí ya˙ßulu fíhi dhálika’l-intiqál wa
lau bi-daqíqaτ wá˙idaτ qabla’l-ghurúb.
The Bahá’í year is divided into nineteen months, leaving
aside the days in excess, and it begins with the entry of
the sun in the sign of Aries, commencing on the day
during which the transition into Aries takes place, even
if [this should happen] one minute before sunset. [my
translation]
The American National Spiritual Assembly was in all
probability in possession of the Persian-language translation,
whose content is accurate, though somewhat awkwardly
formulated:37

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
sál behá’í beh núzdah máh taqsím míshavad. be-‘aláve-ye
ayyám-e zá’edeh va ibtedá-ye an dochúl-e áftáb ast dar
borj-e ˙amal keh mabdá’e sál gerefteh míshavad. va
an-rúzíst keh ín inteqál-e áftáb be-borj-e ˙amal ßúrat
gírad va lú yek dagígeh qabl az ghorúb báshad.
The “Book of Questions and Answers” (ketáb-e su’ál va
javáb) is referred to frequently in the Egyptian statement,
whose authors explicitly characterise this work, which is a
supplementary part of the Most Holy Book,38 as a primary
source of information. In addition, the “one minute” clause is
clearly based on the nearly identical wording from Bahá’u’lláh
as it occurs in “Questions and Answers”, just as the expression
al-ayyámi’z-zá’idaτ conforms to Bahá’u’lláh’s wording in
Kitáb-i Aqdas verse 16: thus article 52 of the Egyptian
statement demonstrably represents a deliberate paraphrase of
the divine law of the Kitáb-i Aqdas. It is therefore probable
that the insertion “as stated by Bahá’u’lláh” in the first part of
the letter of 1940 refers not to the text in The Bahá’í World
based on Nabíl, but rather to article 52 of the Egyptian
statement. One serious objection carried over from earlier
readings is therewith eliminated.
It should be noted that the National Spiritual Assembly did
not press Shoghi Effendi in any way for an explanation or
statement with regard to the spot: the topic isn’t even hinted
at, neither in the wording of the enquiry itself nor in the
Egyptian statement. This means among other things that the
sentence “As to which spot should be regarded as the standard,
this is a matter which the Universal House of Justice will have
to decide” in no way takes its cue from the preceding enquiry,
but is, as it were, a voluntary disclosure: had Shoghi Effendi
wished to avoid the topic of the spot, he would have been
perfectly at liberty to have done so.
It is thus clear that Shoghi Effendi introduced the theme (i.e.
the “matter of the spot”) for a reason of his own. For those who
are already convinced that the spot is an inalienable component
of the New Year determination and who moreover reject the
efficacy of literary criticism, that reason is clear: Shoghi
Effendi introduced the spot into the discussion simply because
it is part and parcel of the future ruling. “There is no reason

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
whatever for even the slightest reassessment of the possible
meaning of Shoghi Effendi’s response in light of its newly
expanded textual context”, they will contend, adding: “It is
undoubtedly interesting to know what the American National
Spiritual Assembly was concerned about at that time, but for
the understanding of Shoghi Effendi’s text this knowledge is of
no relevance: utterances of the Guardian conform to their own
rationality, they stand for themselves, in no way dependent on
the broader communicative context, self-sustaining and
sovereign.”
This attitude might well be valid to a degree in certain cases,
such as the lengthier letters from Shoghi Effendi to the Bahá’í
world community. In the present case, however, it ignores
certain inconsistencies which are not so easy to dismiss out of
hand. Of the three parts of Shoghi Effendi’s answer, only the
third appears to have anything directly to do with the enquiry
which preceded it, and even here our euphoria is held in bounds:
one would normally expect that a suggestion, once made,
would either be accepted or rejected; the summons to carry on
as before is otiose. Other than that, the response doesn’t
appear to have any genuine points of contact at all with the
letter from the National Spiritual Assembly. The Spiritual
Assembly demonstrates acquaintance both with the astronomic
circumstances and with the functioning of the ruling as
presented in the Egyptian statement and incidentally also in the
Kitáb-i Aqdas. The first part of Shoghi Effendi’s answer thus
addresses a question which was not asked at all, and indeed in a
manner which presents the situation in a far less satisfactorily
fashion than either the explanation in the Egyptian statement
or the accompanying remarks from the National Spiritual
Assembly. Similarly, the second part of the answer is concerned
with a topic which was not touched upon at all in the enquiry.
And once again, the motivation for this disclosure is not at all
identifiable: a matter which is supposedly so central and
without which the divine law is allegedly incomplete, and about
which the Spiritual Assembly demonstrates no specific
foreknowledge, is mentioned laconically, more or less in
passing.
It is the case right down to the present day that the intended
function of the spot is not unambiguously clear. In the notes

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
to the English-language edition of the Kitáb-i Aqdas, for
example, it is described as “a particular spot on earth which
will serve as the standard for the fixing of the time of the spring
equinox”,39 a formulation which suggests that it is to function
as a parameter to a calculation, in apparent agreement with the
underlying assumption of the National Spiritual Assembly in
its letter of 1940. By contrast, in the German-language edition
of the Kitáb-i Aqdas it is presented as “Messpunkt für die
Feststellung der Frühjahrs-Tagundnachtgleiche”, that is, as the
location at which the vernal equinox is to be determined, in a
manner reminiscent of the historical Jalálí practice by which
midday is defined as the moment at which the azimuth of the
sun is 0° (due south) relative to an agreed point of observation.
If this spot is really so indispensable, then Shoghi Effendi
might at least have taken this opportunity to clarify how it was
supposed to work, even if he was at pains to avoid preempting
the nomination of a particular location.
* * *
But there is also another way of viewing Shoghi Effendi’s
reaction. One must bear in mind that, by suggesting that New
Year’s Day be determined on the basis of the actual point of
Aries, the American Assembly was effectively requesting the
immediate enactment of the divine law. There were valid
reasons, which I will discuss presently, why this request was
totally
unacceptable.
Instead
of
simply
blocking
the
suggestion, however, the Guardian offered a precise, indeed a
logically watertight explanation why, by all sympathy with the
aspirations of the Spiritual Assembly and in full appreciation
of its good intentions, he was not disposed to take up this
suggestion. The three parts of Shoghi Effendi’s response
correspond namely to the three parts of a classical syllogism.
That is not to say that Shoghi Effendi intentionally formulated
his response in this manner. That may or may not be the case,
but all that is being claimed here is that, in this reading, one
can discern the line of reasoning which forms the basis of the
Guardian’s judgement and subsequently of his answer, and that
this line of reasoning can be best illustrated in the form of a
syllogism, which in its turn can be mapped onto the structure
of the answer.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Syllogisms consist of nothing more or less than normal,
healthy common sense, albeit painstakingly structured. A
syllogism comprises three propositions: two premises (roughly,
“contentions”) and a logical conclusion. The first premise is
typically a general statement and the second a particular one,
but this arrangement is not mandatory. The integrity of the
conclusion is dependent on the validity of the two premises,
which for that reason must be meticulously substantiated. A
premise is then considered substantiated if it is an empirical or
axiomatic statement, or if it is itself the result — the logical
conclusion — of a valid syllogism. A syllogistic argument is
accordingly a potential hierarchy of syllogisms nested within
one another, reaching theoretically so far into the depths of
exposition until nothing remains other than axiomatic or
empirical assertions. Normally, however, the chain of argument
ends at the point at which the justification is acceptable to
every rationally thinking being (thus avoiding not only
unnecessary toil, but also the danger of infinite regress).
In the present case, the three parts of the passage from the
letter of 1940 correspond to the three propositions of the
syllogism: major term, minor term, conclusion. The first
premise (the major term) consists of the paraphrase of the law
as presented in the Kitáb-i Aqdas:
Regarding Naw-Ruz: if the vernal equinox falls on the
21st of March before sunset it is celebrated on that
day. If at any time after sunset, Naw-Ruz will then, as
stated by Bahá’u’lláh, fall on the 22nd.
The essence of this statement in terms of the syllogism is the
fact that the occurrence of the day of Naw-Rúz is conditioned
by two temporal events: the moment of the vernal equinox and
the moment of sunset. In other words: these two factors
together determine the definition of the expression “day of
Naw-Rúz”. Whereas the term “vernal equinox” is well-defined,
the meaning of the term “sunset”, in terms of the divine law,
remains unresolved. Reduced to its essentials, therefore, the
premise (major term) reads as follows:
The enactment of the divine law with regard to the
determination of the day of Naw-Rúz presupposes an

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
unambiguous definition of the term “sunset” with
respect to the law.
In accordance with this understanding, the statement contains
everything which is necessary to convey the message. It is not in
any way an attempt to inform the Assembly what the Gregorian
equivalent to 1 Bahá’ might be; instead, it is an outline of the
essential criteria for a procedure whose outcome is fully
known, understood and agreed upon in principle by all parties
concerned, with the intention of establishing a launching-point
for the statements which follow. After all, it was hardly
necessary for Shoghi Effendi to provide an elementary lesson in
the features of the law: the text of the preceding suggestion
(along with its extended context) amply demonstrated that the
American National Spiritual Assembly was not in need of
enlightenment in this respect. The example of the day of Naw-
Rúz in connexion with 21 and 22 March served merely to
illustrate the degree to which the determination of Naw-Rúz is
conditioned by the properties of sunset.
In short: if we regard the purpose of this part of the passage
from the letter of 1940 as a premise, and not as dissemination
of information, then our irritation over the Gregorian
reference and over the many undiscussed exceptions simply
vaporises.
From this perspective, the interpolation “as stated by
Bahá’u’lláh” — a clause whose justification has in the meantime
been clarified — serves formally to substantiate the premise.
Since a statement from Bahá’u’lláh automatically counts for
Bahá’ís as axiomatic in terms of syllogistics, it would have been
superfluous to pursue the formal substantiation of the major
term any deeper.
The second premise (the minor term), which will be examined
more closely below, consists of that statement which is of
central concern in this presentation:
As to which spot should be regarded as the standard,
this is a matter which the Universal House of Justice
will have to decide.
The conclusion (signalled by the word “therefore”), which
follows logically from these two premises, reads:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The American National Spiritual Assembly need not
therefore take any action in this matter at present.
The words “need not therefore take any action” represent in
this reading a gentle way of insisting that the members of the
National Spiritual Assembly abandon this project altogether,
since it does not lie within the bounds of their administrative
competence. Just how this follows logically from the two
premises will become clear when we take a closer look at the
minor term, i.e. the premise which mentions the spot.
There are two aspects of the second premise which demand
closer scrutiny. The first has to do with the matter at hand:
As to which spot should be regarded as the standard ...
In order to comply with a methodology derived from the
Iranian National Calendar, the term “sunset” would have to
mean “sunset at a specific location on Earth”, a circumstance
which would be thoroughly consistent with the requirement for
the nomination of a particular spot to be regarded as the
standard. As we have seen, the historically conditioned
assumption that the Badí‘ calendar is to follow Jalálí practice
in this respect explains the preoccupation with the spot. But it
so happens that the revealed law could also be interpreted in a
manner which in fact does not require a specific reference
spot40. This fact in itself renders the concept of “sunset” in
terms of the law ambiguous, over and above the question of its
exact location. In other words, authoritatively establishing
that the resolution of the issue of the spot is directly connected
with the definition of sunset does not imply by extension that
the use of a spot is prescribed. Uncontestable is alone the fact
that, in connexion with the concept of sunset, there is need for
clarification with regard to the spot.
The second aspect has to do with the question of
competence:
... this is a matter which the Universal House of Justice
will have to decide.
In contrast to the major term, Shoghi Effendi does not offer
an explicit substantiation. Nonetheless this premise is well-

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
founded, a fact which can be amply demonstrated in the form
of a nested syllogism whose propositions are as follows:
major term: All matters which are not expressly recorded
in scripture must be referred to the Universal
House of Justice.
minor term: The spot is a matter which is not expressly
recorded in scripture.
conclusion: Any decision with respect to the matter of the
spot must be taken by the Universal House of
Justice.
In accordance with this understanding of the text, the
thematic intonation does not fall on the word “decide”, but
instead on the phrase “the Universal House of Justice”:
As to which spot should be regarded as the standard,
this is a matter which the Universal House of Justice
[and no-one else] will have to decide.
The substantiation of the major term of this inner syllogism
is to be found as before in the documented tenets of the Faith
— in this case in the Lesser Covenant, which specifies that
authoritative interpretation of scripture is vested exclusively
in the Guardianship:
... it is incumbent upon the Aghsan, the Afnan of the
Sacred Lote-Tree, the Hands of the Cause of God and
the loved ones of the Abha Beauty to turn unto Shoghi
Effendi ... the Guardian of the Cause of God ... He is
the Interpreter of the Word of God ...41
– whereas every matter which is not expressly mentioned in the
writings is “a matter which the Universal House of Justice will
have to decide”, or as it is explained in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and
Testament,
Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn, and all
that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred
to the Universal House of Justice.42

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Shoghi Effendi took great pains to maintain this strict
division of domains of competence between the Guardianship
and the House of Justice, and he states unequivocally
... that the Guardian of the Faith has been made the
Interpreter of the Word and that the Universal House
of Justice has been invested with the function of
legislating on matters not expressly revealed in the
teachings. The interpretation of the Guardian,
functioning within his own sphere, is as authoritative
and binding as the enactments of the International
House of Justice, whose exclusive right and prerogative
is to pronounce upon and deliver the final judgment on
such laws and ordinances as Bahá’u’lláh has not
expressly revealed. Neither can, nor will ever, infringe
upon the sacred and prescribed domain of the other.
Neither will seek to curtail the specific and undoubted
authority with which both have been divinely
invested.43
Had Shoghi Effendi, in his authoritative understanding of
scripture, been of the opinion that the spot was an express part
of the writings — and that would mean that he understood
“Questions and Answers” no. 35 in the same fashion as Nabíl
apparently did — then the matter would clearly lie in his own
area of responsibility. In that case he might still have
postponed a decision indefinitely, perhaps delegating it to one
or another of his successors in office, but expressly not to the
House of Justice. Otherwise — that is, in the event that Shoghi
Effendi were of the opinion that the revealed word is silent
with regard to the spot — then he or any other Guardian of the
Cause of God would be excluded from clarifying this matter,
since he would otherwise “infringe upon the sacred and
prescribed domain” of the Universal House of Justice and
thereby “curtail the specific and undoubted authority” with
which that body had been “divinely invested”. Given this
reading of the text, Shoghi Effendi leaves no room for doubt
that he holds this second opinion. His conclusion is explicit,
unambiguous and compulsory: “This is a matter that the
Universal House of Justice will have to decide.”

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
There are certainly many examples of interim decisions taken
by Shoghi Effendi in matters over which the writings remain
silent but which, for purely operative reasons, couldn’t wait
until the Universal House of Justice had been established (for
example, the modalities for the election of the initial members
of this body), but only in cases where subsequent alteration by
the House would be practicable. In the case of the spot, a later
revision of an interim decision would have been virtually
impossible, since it would involve the abrogation of an already
consummated calendar reform. For this reason, a possible
interim decision from the Guardian regarding the spot did not
come into consideration.
* * *
Everyone must decide for himself whether Shoghi Effendi is
here pursuing a logical line of argument, or whether the above
discourse is baseless and suggestive. From the point of view of
literary criticism, however, it can be observed that, in light of
the deliberations above, this reading of Shoghi Effendi’s
remarks represents in every respect an appropriate response to
the passage from the letter of the American National Spiritual
Assembly:
o Inner cohesion: As carriers of the three propositions
of an implicit syllogism, the three parts of the answer
are tightly interrelated both structurally and from the
point of view of content.
o Outer cohesion: This reading is in accord with the
writings of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, on the condition
that one abandon the assumption of a direct
dependence on the properties of the Iranian National
Calendar. Furthermore, this reading is supported by
the conditions of the Lesser Covenant.
o External cohesion: No form of discourse fulfils the
criteria of reason better than the syllogistic
argumentation which forms the basis of this reading.
Moreover, the scientifically backed astronomic
circumstances play a contributing rôle to the extent
that they are assumed as necessary background. And
finally, this reading is in conformity with the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
documented, though not ultimately provable, origin
of the consensus opinion regarding the spot.
o Relevance: The main issue of both the suggestion of
the National Spiritual Assembly and of Shoghi
Effendi’s response according to this reading is the
enactment of the divine law regarding the calendar.
o Commensurability: The suggestion of the National
Spiritual Assembly ends with a query concerning the
administrative responsibility for its implementation.
This question is answered.
o Completeness:
No
request
for
information,
clarification
or
instruction
contained
in
the
preceding suggestion by the Spiritual Assembly is left
unanswered.
o Motivation: All aspects of the response according to
this reading are motivated either by the circumstances
involved or by the extended textual context, right
down to the finest details of choice of words:
1. the repeated mention of sunset;
2. the interpolation “as stated by Bahá’u’lláh”;
3. the well-considered inclusion of the word “matter”;
4. the indication of compulsion through “will have
to”; and
5. the use of “therefore” to introduce the logical
conclusion.
In addition, the use of Gregorian calendar dates is
motivated, admittedly not directly (or better,
probably
not
intentionally)
by
the
preceding
suggestion, but nevertheless indirectly, as a result of
the preparatory researches on the part of Shoghi
Effendi’s secretary, who had adopted a passing
response from already available materials.
o Terminological parallelism: The terms used, as
understood in this reading, orient themselves directly
on the terms used in the preceding suggestion, along

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
with those which occur in the Egyptian statement
which it mentions. As counterbalance to the
suggestion’s persistent concentration on the equinox,
the response explicitly makes the sunset its central
theme.
o Symmetry: By virtue of the fact that both the
preceding enquiry and the response to it are objective
examinations of the conditions surrounding the
enactment of a specific aspect of divine law, the
response totally reflects the nature of the enquiry.
o Language and knowledge level: This reading assumes
basic knowledge of the details of the law in the Kitáb-i
Aqdas and of the astronomic circumstances involved;
that both assumptions are justified is evident from
the content of the preceding enquiry. Moreover, in
must be considered reasonable for Shoghi Effendi to
assume acquaintance with the stipulations of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Testament from the members of a National
Spiritual Assembly.
Alone the fact that, of all possible readings, this particular
one is the demonstrably most appropriate reaction to the
preceding enquiry from the National Spiritual Assembly does
not mean that it is the objectively correct reading; it merely
means that it best satisfies the criteria of literary criticism. To
what degree this observation is to be taken into consideration
is a decision which must ultimately be taken by that organ
which will one day be responsible for the enactment of the
divine law: the Universal House of Justice.
* * *
Let us now return to the ambiguity noted at the very
beginning of this examination, that is, the question whether
Shoghi Effendi is referring to the whole issue of the spot, or
simply to the question of its location. Everything said so far
with regard to this reading of the passage of the 1940 letter
appears to apply equally to both alternatives. However, in light
of what we have in the meantime learned concerning the
extended context of this passage, the question can now be
reformulated: What does “Questions and Answers” no. 35 tell

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
us about the spot? If we assume (as Nabíl apparently did) that
the Badí‘ New Year ruling differs from the Jalálí ruling only
where expressly stated, then we would have to interpret
Bahá’u’lláh’s silence as endorsement both for the use of a spot
and for its traditional location in Teheran, being presumably
some specific vantage point within the confines of the royal
precinct. At the very most the Universal House of Justice
might be free to select a specific location in the immediate
vicinity to serve as the spot — say, the site of the birthplace or
later residence of Bahá’u’lláh — in order to redefine its
symbolic significance without measurably altering its effect. If
this had been his understanding we would expect that, at some
point in his ministry, Shoghi Effendi would have made this
restriction clear. For example, in his letter of 15 May 1940 he
might quite easily have written
As to which spot in Teheran should be regarded as the
standard ...
But instead, the Guardian left the decision of the location (if
that is what his remarks imply) entirely up to the Universal
House of Justice. That would be in conformity with the divine
law only if we understood Bahá’u’lláh’s silence to imply that the
Jalálí spot prototype holds in principle but not in practice.
However, we would then be obliged to identify some text-
related criterion which justifies our making such a distinction:
some criterion, that is, other than the fact that this particular
reading satisfies the expectation which was placed on the text
in the first place.44 What is more, we would have to ask
ourselves why Shoghi Effendi should deliberately have elected to
generalise the issue by characterising the spot as a “matter”,
thus incurring the risk that this binding interpretation of the
divine ruling might be understood differently — not only by
some individual pursuing literary criticism, but potentially
also by the then future Universal House of Justice.
Again, it is not possible here to conclude which reading is
ultimately correct; that will only become clear after the
Universal House of Justice has issued enactment legislation
with respect to the calendar law. But in anticipation of such
legislation it is legitimate to consider the material — including
the testimony of Bahá’u’lláh — from a literary-critical point of

Textual Context and Literary Criticism
view in order to help establish which readings best comply with
objective hermeneutic criteria.
In summary: When seen as a reasoned rejection of the plan
advocated by the American National Spiritual Assembly to
activate this aspect of divine law, Shoghi Effendi’s reply
appears to confirm that no scriptural basis exists — also and in
particular no ruling on the part of the Guardian — in support
of the assumed indispensability of the spot: almost exactly the
opposite of what is generally interpreted into this text passage.
Conclusion
Every text has both an internal and an external context on
which the reliability of its interpretation is causally dependent.
Aside from its explicit content it has an origin, a purpose, an
evolutionary history, an intended readership. Its author
pursues a goal, represents interests, draws upon his own
knowledge and perspective, advances a point of view, presents
his own opinion, selects according to circumstances what to
say and what not to say. A number of these factors can be
easily recognised on the basis of text-internal clues, provided
that the text is of sufficient size; one or more of them might
even be explicitly addressed by the author himself.
The briefer the text, the more meagre the internal textual
context, and thus the greater the possibility of a misreading.
The external context, which in the case of a passage extracted
from a letter means the entire sequence of correspondence of
which it is a part, thus becomes all the more important. This
context is missing entirely in the available compilations of
letters from Shoghi Effendi — and yet the usefulness of such
compilations lies precisely in their extensive breadth of theme,
which in turn is only possible because the individual entries are
kept extremely brief. In other words, compilations are
problematic not by virtue of their quality, but by their very
nature. In any case, the pursuit of literary criticism in a
methodologically sound and systematic manner is not
practicable on the basis of such compilations alone.
This presentation has made use of many of the tools of
literary criticism, if not in all facets exhaustively: the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
application
of
the
methods
of
historical,
linguistic,
literary/stylistic, tradition and genre criticism has led to
deeper insights into the text under analysis. But it will not be
sufficient in the long run for the Bahá’í community simply to
adopt existing tools of literary criticism “uncritically”.
Rather, the task is to examine these as a basis for the
development
of
a
specific
Bahá’í
methodology
which
acknowledges and reflects the unique quality of Bahá’í writings.
In no religious community before have primary documents
been preserved with such authenticity and in such plenitude as
they have been in the Bábí-Bahá’í revelations; bible critics, for
example, cannot even venture to dream of such felicitous
circumstances. And yet it is precisely this quality which
exposes literary criticism to fresh challenges which demand the
development of new departures for analysis. In this
presentation, for example, mention has been made repeatedly
of the heterogeneous cooperation which apparently existed
between Shoghi Effendi and his secretaries in the course of the
composition of individual letters. This working relationship
could be a central key to questions not only of interpretation,
but also of authenticity.
The methodology of literary criticism is principally the same
whether it is pursued in the service of one’s own personal
investigation of religious content or conducted as preliminary
analysis in the forefront of authoritative decision-making.
Since it aids in the search for, but brackets out the question of,
ultimate truth, literary criticism as I see it is a legitimate field
of activity for Bahá’í researchers who wish to make a
significant contribution to the formation of opinion
regarding the substance of Bahá’í belief without thereby
encroaching upon the areas of competence of those
institutions — the Guardianship and the House of Justice —
which are authorised to make binding pronouncements in the
name of the Faith.

Textual Context and Literary Criticism

NOTES
1 This is an abridged version of my paper entitled Textzusammenhang und
Kritik: Ein Fallbeispiel anhand eines Briefes von Shoghi Effendi
presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquium held in Tambach, Germany on 19 -
22 July 2007 and printed in ‘Irfán-Studien zum Bahá’í-Schrifttum:
Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums 2007/2008, Hofheim: Bahá’í-Verlag
2009. Translated by the author.
2 Hornby, Helen (ed.), Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File Part I,
New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1988.
3 Directives from the Guardian, India/Hawaii 1973.
4 This presentation is not concerned with the assessment of the degree to
which individual excerpts from letters are binding on the recipients of
the letters or on the Bahá’í community as a whole. Furthermore,
questions of author attribution, i.e. of the authorship of Shoghi
Effendi and/or that of his secretary or secretaries, will be addressed
only when the discourse requires.
5 Directives from the Guardian no. 76, p. 30; also Lights of Guidance no.
1027, p. 302.
6 Keil, Gerald, Time and the Bahá’í Era. A study of the Badí‘ Calendar,
Oxford: George Ronald Press 2008, pp. 127-180.
7 In contrast to advocates of deconstructionism (for a critical
examination of the deconstructivist viewpoint see McLean, Jack,
“Literary
Criticism,
Theology
und
Deconstructionism”,
http://mclean.titles.googlepages.com/LiteraryCriticismTheologyandDeconstr.ht
m) I make a plea not for the exclusion of the question of truth content
(i.e. the rejection of its validity as an attribute of meaning), but merely
for its suspension, for the application of literary criticism as a
“safeguard against closures of meaning” (McLean p. 12), in conformity
with the Bahá’í principle of discrimination between free expression of
opinion (here in the sense of opinion potential) and authoritative
interpretation of the teachings.
8 See for example Hatcher, John S., “The Validity and Value of an
Historical-Critical Approach to the Revealed Works of Bahá’u’lláh”,
Momen, M. (ed.), Scripture and Revelation, Bahá’í-Studies Volume III,
Oxford: George Ronald 1997, pp. 27-52; Stockman, Robert H.,
“Revelation, Interpretation and Elucidation in the Bahá’í Writings”,
op.cit. pp. 53-68; Lewis, Franklin, “Scripture as Literature. Sifting
Through the Layers of the Text”, in: Bahá’í Studies Review vol. 7, 1997;
and more recently, McLean, J., “The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of
Shoghi Effendi”, in: Iraj Ayman, ed., Lights of ‘Irfán — Papers
presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars, Book Eight, Evanston:
Bahá’í National Center 2007, pp. 203-256.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

9 At the latest since [the events leading up to] the publication of
Modernity and the Millennium by Juan R. I. Cole (New York:
Columbia University Press 1998) and the preparation of the text
compilation entitled Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith:
Extracts from Letters written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1999), especially the letter of
8 February 1998 (pp. 37-44), the employment of historical-critical
methodology in the study of the writings has been the topic of a
continuous debate among a number of Bahá’í writers reaching into the
present time: the latest significant comment (at the time of this
writing) can be found in Schaefer, Udo, Baháí Ethics in Light of
Scripture, Vol. 1 (Oxford: George Ronald 2007), Appendix, Section IV,
“The Freedom of Historical Research”. This debate has dominated the
examination of literary criticism, with the result that consideration of
other aspects has been for the most part overlooked.
10 For a — critical — examination of the findings of newer Bible criticism
see for example Ratzinger, Joseph (Papst Benedikt XVI), Jesus von
Nazereth, Freiburg: Herder Verlag 2 2007 (or its English-language
equivalent).
11 For an analysis of the application of this principle in the framework of
the understanding of Bahá’í law see Tober, Gilan, “Ein eindeutiger
Wortlaut als Auslegungshindernis? Zur Interpretation normativer
Bahá’í-Texte”, in: Schriftreihe der Gesellschaft für Bahá’í-Studien Band
7, Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag 2003, pp. 95-128.
12 Cf. Gollmer, Ulrich, “Der Geringere Frieden: Göttliches Heilsangebot in
Säkularer Gestalt”, in: Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums 2005, Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag 2006, p. 132.
13 Keil, Gerald, Die Zeit im Bahá’í-Zeitalter: Eine Studie über den Badí‘-
Kalender. Sonderband der Schriftreihe der Gesellschaft für Bahá’í-
Studien für das deutschsprachige Europa, Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag
2005.
14 Kindly made available to me by the late Dr. Badí‘u’lláh Panáhí (my
transcription).
15 Momen, M. (ed.), Selections from the Writings of E.G.Browne on the
Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Oxford: George Ronald Press 1987, “A
Summary of the Persian Bayan”, Wá˙id VI, Chapter 14.
16 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitábu’l-Aqdas, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre 1995, Risálih
(Su’ál va Javáb) no. 35 (my transcription).
17 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre 1992,
“Questions and Answers” no. 35, p. 118.
18 For the purposes of the Jalálí calendar, it would seem (though sources
are not in unanimous agreement) that midday is nowadays defined as
12:00 true solar time calculated on the basis of the reference longitude
for Iran Standard Time (52°30'E). At the time of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh, however, it was most probably still determined by

Textual Context and Literary Criticism

observation, i.e. the moment when the sun stood due south (azimuth
0°) relative to that longitude which passed through a particular
reference location in Teheran (approx. 51°25'30”E, or roughly four
minutes and eighteen seconds earlier).
19 Nabíl-i A‘zam, Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation,
part 2 (unpublished). Text kindly made available to me by the Research
Department of the Bahá’í World Centre in Haifa (my transcription).
20 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 26, p. 177.
21 In his review of Hatcher, John S., The Ocean of His Words. A reader’s
Guide to the Art of Bahá’u’lláh, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
1997), Sen McGlinn stresses, in an impressive manner, the importance
of the detachment of the literary-critical inspection of a text from
extraneous expectations, especially in the sections “Subjectivism” and
“Docetism” (Bahá’í Studies Review vol. 9, 1999-2000).
22 See Time and the Bahá’í Era, pp. 161-163.
23 Memorandum of 18. April 2001 from the Research Department of the
Bahá’ì World Centre in Haifa to the present writer.
24 Communication of 31 July 2006 from the Research Department of the
Bahá’í World Centre to the present writer.
25 A parallel search in Directives from the Guardian is ruled out on
account of that work’s lack of source references.
26 Lights of Guidance no. 194, p. 55.
27 Lights of Guidance no. 515, p. 154.
28 Lights of Guidance no. 1623, p. 486.
29 Excerpt from a letter of 25 February 1951 written on behalf of the
Guardian to the National Spiritual Assembly of the British Isles, quoted
in a Memorandum of 12 January 2006 to an individual believer from
the Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre, reprinted in: Iraj
Ayman, ed., Lights of ‘Irfán — Papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia
and Seminars, Book Eight, Evanston: Bahá’í National Center 2007, p.
398. Remarks about the relative authority of such texts have been
omitted, since this issue does not concern us here.
30 The ramifications of the infallibility conferred upon the Guardian of
the Cause by virtue of the Lesser Covenant are certainly of relevance
with regard to the status of Shoghi Effendi’s communications, but they
do not contribute to the literary-critical analysis of them.
31 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas verse 111, p. 60.
32 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1974,
p. 370. I am endebted to the Research Department of the Bahá’í World
Centre for pointing this out to me.
33 The Bahá’í World, vol. VI (1934-1936), pp. 363 - 379.
34 The Bahá’í World, vol. VIII (1938-1940), pp. 493 - 499, as well as vols. IX und
X.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

35 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas verse 16, pp. 24-25; verse 127, p. 64; “Questions and
Answers” no. 35, p. 118.
36 Facsimile reproduction in The Bahá’í World (my transcription). Note
that the Arabic tá’ marbút&aτ (i.e. the feminine ending) is here rendered
uniformly as aτ, whether medially (rather than -at-) or finally (rather
than -a, -ah or occasionally -at).
37 Facsimile reproduction in The Bahá’í World (my transcription).
It is also conceivable that the American National Spiritual Assembly was
in possession of a copy of an English-language translation completed
in India in 1939: cf. the letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi on 26
November 1939 to the National Spiritual Assembly of India: “The copy
of the English translation of the compilation on ‘Bahá’í Laws on
Matters of Personal Status’ which you had submitted for the Guardian’s
consideration has safely reached him, and while he does not advise that
your Assembly should proceed with the publication of the English text
at present, he has no objection to its being translated and published in
Urdu and Burmese. As to the Iranian translation of the same; the
friends in Iran have already completed this work, and the Guardian
would therefore advise that you consult the Iranian National Spiritual
Assembly on the subject before deciding to publish the text of the
Iranian translation.” Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Indian
Subcontinent 1923-1957, New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1995, p.
183.
38 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Introduction, p. 9.
39 The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 26, p. 177.
40 See Time and the Bahá’í Era, pp. 164-171.
41 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Will and Testament part I: 17, p. 11.
42 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Will and Testament part II: 8, p. 19.
43 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust 1974 (reprinted 1980), p. 150.
44 I make reference once again to my remarks in note 21.


The Path of God
Declaration Towards a Global Ethic
and the Bahá’í Faith
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction
The question “What is religion?” can be answered in many
ways. As the title of this paper indicates, religion is seen here as
a path, as a way, as a special way of life, i.e., the “good life”. It
will be shown that the concept of religion as a path is embodied
in all religions and is almost the only concept that describes all
of the world religions today. Even Buddhism, which does not
have a conceptual understanding of God, is above all described
as “The Eightfold Path.”
The philosophical discipline describing the good life is
Ethics, which follows the concepts of Aristotle who begins his
treatise on ethics with the words: “Every art and every inquiry,
and similarly every action and pursuit, is thought to aim at
some good; and for this reason the good has rightly been
declared to be that at which all things aim.”1
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, in 1943,
when describing the “three embryonic Bahá’í educational
institutions in the North American continent,” mentions
“courses on Bahá’í ethics” and “lectures on Comparative
Religion.” (GPB 340) Combining these two lines of inquiry, this
paper attempts to describe the ethical implications of the “Path
of God” in the search for the unifying principle of the major
world religions. Such a study of comparative religion could be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
the point of departure on the path towards the unity of all
religions, which is a major principle of the Bahá’í Faith.
The recent “Declaration Towards a Global Ethic”2 indicates
Ethic, as described above, may in this time and evolutionary
setting be seen as a unifying principle of all religions. This
Declaration (henceforth
abbreviated
DGE) is based on the
conviction that the basis for such a global ethic already exists
in the teaching of all religions, as follows:
We affirm that a common set of core values is found
in the teachings of the religions and that these form the
basis of a global ethic. (DGE 14)
In the Bahá’í Faith, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly expressed that the
basis of ethics, that is, morals and conduct, is the teaching of
the Religions of God:
… the fundamental principles of the Religion of God,
which are morals and conduct … (SAQ 53)
He further reminds us that religion is not belief and customs,
but rather God’s teachings, which constitute the very life of
humankind:
Religion, moreover, is not a series of beliefs, a set of
customs; religion is the teachings of the Lord God,
teachings, which constitute the very life of humankind,
which urge high thoughts upon the mind, refine the
character, and lay the groundwork for man's
everlasting honour. (SWAB 53)
In the following passage Bahá’u’lláh not only said that man
is like a mine of hidden treasures, which has to be discovered
through education, but also encourages the learned and
worldly-wise men of this age to discover these values and bring
true liberty and undisturbed peace to humankind.
The Great Being saith: Regard man as a mine rich in
gems of inestimable value. Education can, alone, cause
it to reveal its treasures, and enable mankind to benefit
therefrom. …
If the learned and worldly-wise men of this age were to
allow mankind to inhale the fragrance of fellowship and

The Path of God
love, every understanding heart would apprehend the
meaning of true liberty, and discover the secret of
undisturbed peace and absolute composure. (GWB 259)
The first meeting of the Parliament of Religions convening
in Chicago in 1893, a year after the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh,
can well be described as a meeting “of learned and worldly-wise
men of this age.” Hundred years later in 1993 the Parliament of
Religions convened in Chicago again, and these learned men
and women of many religions accepted the “Declaration
Towards a Global Ethic,” which was signed by members of the
assembled religious groups. Representatives of the Bahá’í Faith
participated in the hosting committee of the meeting, and they
were alphabetically the first to sign the declaration.
Shoghi Effendi, in his book God Passes By, described the
original meeting of the Parliament of Religions and stated that,
in this very meeting, the first mention of the Bahá’í Faith in
America was made. He referred to the Rev. George A. Ford of
Syria, who had mentioned Bahá’u’lláh.3 One year later, the
Bahá’í Faith was establishing a strong foothold in the city of
Chicago, the city of that very Parliament. This is how the
Shoghi Effendi describes this event:
It was on September 23, 1893, a little over a year after
Bahá’u’lláh's ascension, that, in a paper written by
Rev. Henry H. Jessup, D.D., Director of Presbyterian
Missionary Operations in North Syria, and read by
Rev. George A. Ford of Syria, at the World Parliament
of Religions, held in Chicago, in connection with the
Columbian Exposition, commemorating the four-
hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America, it
was announced that “a famous Persian Sage,” “the Bábí
Saint,” had died recently in 'Akká, and that two years
previous to His ascension “a Cambridge scholar” had
visited Him, to whom He had expressed “sentiments so
noble, so Christ-like” that the author of the paper, in
his “closing words,” wished to share them with his
audience. (GPB 256)
Shoghi Effendi continues to describe that soon after this
announcement the Bahá’í Faith found its first believers in
Chicago:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Less than a year later, in February 1894, a Syrian
doctor, named Ibrahim Khayru'llah4, who, while
residing in Cairo, had been converted by Haji Abdu’l-
Karim-i-Tihrani to the Faith, had received a Tablet
from Bahá’u’lláh, had communicated with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, and reached New York in December 1892,
established his residence in Chicago, and began to
teach actively and systematically the Cause he had
espoused. (GPB 256)
Can it not be said that the Parliament of Religion convening
in Chicago, unknowingly followed direction, given by
Bahá’u’lláh to humankind, which makes it incumbent on
everyone to consort with followers of all religions, i.e., with
each other, in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship?
It is incumbent upon every man, in this Day, to hold
fast unto whatsoever will promote the interests, and
exalt the station, of all nations and just governments.
Through each and every one of the verses which the Pen
of the Most High hath revealed, the doors of love and
unity have been unlocked and flung open to the face of
men. We have erewhile declared — and Our Word is the
truth — “Consort with the followers of all religions in a
spirit of friendliness and fellowship.” (GWB 94)
In this paper the global ethic will be compared with the
Bahá’í Faith. This comparison was suggested by the
commentary of the German theologian Hans Küng, who
prepared the text of the ‘Declaration Towards a Global Ethic’
in 1993 for the Parliament of the World’s Religions. Hans
Küng, a Catholic theologian, was one of a group of progressive
theologians at the Vatican Council II in 1962.5
The relationship of the Bahá’í Faith with the idea of a global
ethic is expressed in the following statement:
The central theme of Bahá’u’lláh’s message is that
humanity is one single race and that the day has come
for humanity’s unification into one global society.
While reaffirming the core ethical principles common
to all religions, Bahá’u’lláh also revealed new laws and
teachings to lay the foundations of a global

The Path of God
civilization. “A new life,” Bahá’u’lláh declared, “is, in
this age, stirring within all the peoples of the earth.”6
As much as possible, the continuous development of the
world’s religions and the growing understanding of the Bahá’í
Faith must be taken into account. The hope is expressed that
this development will lead towards an increasing familiarity
between the religions and will eventually lead towards the unity
of all religions, understood in a new way. Any attempt thus far
at religious unity, even at the level of agreement within the
various branches of existing religions, has been an unreachable
goal. Therefore a new vision of unity is imperative.
Global ethic is described by Küng as “a fundamental
consensus concerning binding values, irrevocable standards,
and personal attitudes.” Küng further insists “There can be no
better global order without a global ethic” and states that
“global ethic means neither a global ideology, nor a single
unified global religion transcending all existing religions, nor a
mixture of all religions.” (DGE 14)
The Bahá’í Faith talks about the unity of all religion in a
different way, neither proposing a unified global ideology or
religion, nor a mixture of all religions, but putting forward a
new appreciation for the underlying unity of all religions, as
will be described below. Once this underlying unity of all
religions is understood, a new concept of unity will have to
develop. This unity of the religions cannot be clearly envisioned
today, but can best be described as “Unity in Diversity”.
The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, Shoghi Effendi, seemed to
indicate that a genuine appreciation of the new concept of
unity is not reached at this point but is being instilled in the
adherents of the Bahá’í Faith.
Far from wishing to add to the number of the religious
systems, whose conflicting loyalties have for so many
generations disturbed the peace of mankind, this Faith
is instilling into each of its adherents a new love for,
and a genuine appreciation of the unity underlying, the
various religions represented within its pale. (WOB 196)
It can be expected that it will take time before this
understanding is spread out into the followers of other

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
religions. This means that this understanding of unity will take
time to become functional as a uniting principle, acceptable to
all religions. Consequently, only after this understanding
becomes accepted can real unity follow, and it is not possible
today to describe the form it will take.
It could be stated that this appreciation of the underlying
unity of various religions was expressed in the “Declaration
Towards a Global Ethic” as a unity in the area of ethics. As a
matter of fact, it is the contention of this paper to
demonstrate that the area of ethics is the point from where
such an appreciation can best be launched. In other words, the
unity of religion is inaugurated by the unity of the ethical
principles of all religions, i.e., by a global ethic. This
foundational unity between all religions is best described as a
unity in diversity, as the ethical elements of all religions are not
uniform, but are diverse. Yet, these principles are confluent
with each other; they form a bridge between the diverse
religions. The term confluence has been described with the
dictionary as “a meeting or joining of two or more things, or
the place where two or more things meet or join.”
Could it not be said, that true followers of all religions are
more alike to each other in their ethical behavior, when
compared to superficial and external followers of their own
religion? In other words, the difference between the adherents
of any single religion could well be greater than the difference
between the followers of all religions who take the ethical
principles of their religion seriously and follow the “straight
path.”
The need for a joining of religions becomes especially
obvious when considering today’s opposing forces, such as
atheism, materialism, fanaticism and the widespread ethic of
hedonism, which are all threatening the religions, especially and
practically in their ethical principles,.
Bahá’u’lláh sees the Faith of God expressed in all of God’s
Religions, which He here calls “Faith of God and His Religion”:
The fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God
and His Religion is to safeguard the interests and

The Path of God
promote the unity of the human race, and to foster the
spirit of love and fellowship amongst men. (TB 168)
Again, what could be a better beginning for “the spirit of
love and fellowship amongst men” than an agreement over a
common and global ethic, especially if we understand ethics
not only as the moral guidelines for a just and correct life but
as a way, or a path towards a good, happy and fulfilled life? In
a similar way the Wikipedia notes about ethics that besides its
moral aspect, “a central aspect of ethics is the good life, the life
worth living.” In the following sections of this paper this
aspect of ethics and the distinctive and special contribution of
the Bahá’í Faith in this area will be explored.
Religion, the Path of God
When talking about the world’s religions, the question has to
be raised: What is Religion? Is it the administration and the
ministers of churches, is it their dogmas and creeds, is it the
Holy Scriptures, or is it their liturgy and rituals? What in the
whole range of experiences, customs and consideration that are
connected with religion is the crucial issue that describes and
defines what people call religion? We all know that religion
deals with God, or the “numinous”, even though there is at least
one religion, Buddhism that does not talk about God.
There is one concept that is usually overlooked which seems
to be common to all religions. It is the word “Path” or the
synonym “Way”, words which are combined in the English
word “Pathway.” This word describes a central concept of
religion, which is not a philosophical, moral or legal aspect, but
describes what religion actually does: it gives any human
individual, any human group or organization: from the village
to the state, to all of humankind — a path, a way for a good
life, a life worth living, a life that is valuable and leads to God.
Religions derive this way of life from their specific sources,
that is, from the revelation and the example of their founder
Prophets, but all agree that the emphasis is on the path, rather
than the accompanying circumstances, rules, regulations and
definitions. Buddhism as a religion occupies a special place
among all the religions because it is only concerned with the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
path and does not talk much about anything else that is usually
connected with the idea of religion. It does not even have an
idea or description of God, but still is clearly accepted as a
major world religion.
When describing religion as a path, something different is
expressed than the usual understanding of religion as church
membership or adherence to certain beliefs like creed, dogmas
or church laws. The path is not a concept of sociology, law or
order, it is not an idea usually used in theology, but it could be
best described as the actual living religion in an ethical way. In
other words, ethic is describing conceptually the path a
religious person, group or church is supposed to take. In this
paper, therefore, the words path or way are used in the context
of ethic, or ethical prescriptions and encouragements or
behavior towards the religious life. When talking about ethic in
the Global Ethic document, ethic is described as common
values, standards or attitudes, which lead to a specific way of
life, a specific path making life meaningful, good and worth
living for the individual and communities.
The Path of God in Religious Scriptures
How do the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh describe religion? For a
believer in the reality of the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh as a
Manifestation of God, Their writings are believed to be the
Word of God made manifest by the Prophet. In the verse
below, revealed by the Báb, first God speaks about what He has
done for the Báb and then God defines His religion, which the
Báb is to present to the world as none other than this glorious
and exalted Path. Even for an unbeliever or historian, this verse
expresses the idea the Báb had about His religion.
I have called Thee into being, have nurtured Thee,
protected Thee, loved Thee, raised Thee up and have
graciously chosen Thee to be the manifestation of Mine
Own Self, that Thou mayest recite My verses as
ordained by Me, and may summon whomsoever I have
created unto My Religion which is none other than this
glorious and exalted Path. (SWB 158)

The Path of God
Bahá’u’lláh has affirmed similarly that the sole purpose of
religion as manifested by the Prophets of God is to guide
mankind to the Path of God, or the straight Path of Truth:
The Prophets and Messengers of God have been sent
down for the sole purpose of guiding mankind to the
straight Path of Truth. (GWB 156-157)
Jesus had described Himself as the way, or the path unto the
Father, when He said: (John 14:6)
I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh
unto the Father, but by me.
Bahá’u’lláh uses similar words in describing Himself:
I, verily, am the Path of God unto all who are in the
heavens and all who are on the earth; well is it with them
that hasten thereunto! (SLH 3)
As will be explained next, this is said in a tradition that
includes all major religions which are defined with the same
word, the Path or the Way of God.
Religion as Path, or Way of God
A few examples from some of the world’s religions are cited
below to clarify that the terms “Path” or “Way” are apt; in
fact, they are often the preferred terms in which the world’s
different religious Scriptures describe their reality. These terms
are not only common expressions; they seem to be the
fundamental and most universal descriptions of religion in all
of these Holy Writings.
Zoroaster
(Zend-Avesta, Avesta — Yasna) has several mentions of the path
and “the path of Good Thought,” of “Righteousness,” or
“Blessedness,” which talks about:
… making straight the paths for the Religion of the
future Deliverer
This path is the best, is shining, and all glorious:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Grant to us both the desire of, and the knowledge of
that straightest path, the straightest because of
Righteousness, and of (Heaven) the best life of the
Saints, shining, all glorious.
Lord Krishna
He recommends the fair path leading to heaven:
O Indian Prince! of him whose feet are set On that fair
path which leads to heavenly birth! (Hindu, Bhagavad Gita)
There are many places in the Hindu Scriptures where the path of
God is mentioned like the following:
Agni, lead us on to wealth (beatitude) by a good path,
thou, O God, who knowest all things! Keep far from us
crooked evil, and we shall offer thee the fullest praise!
(Upanishads vol. 1, Vagasaneyi-Samhita-Upanishad 18)
Lord Buddha
The Religion of Lord Buddha (The Word, The Eightfold Path)
consists almost exclusively in describing the Path, not talking
about God or other issues:
It is the Noble Eightfold Path, the way that leads to the
extinction of suffering.
Moses, the servant of God
From the Books of Moses (Exodus 18:19-20)
Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel,
and God shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to
God-ward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto
God: And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws,
and shalt shew them the way wherein they must walk,
and the work that they must do.
Abraham in the book of Genesis (18:19) speaking of way of the
Lord:

The Path of God
For I know him, that he will command his children and
his household after him, and they shall keep the way of
the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD
may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of
him.
King David in the book of Psalms (16:11)
Thou makest me to know the path of life; in Thy
presence is fullness of joy, in Thy right hand bliss for
evermore.
The Prophet Isaiah (48:17):
I am the LORD thy God which teacheth thee to profit,
which leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go
Lord Jesus, the Christ
In the Gospels of Luke (3:3-4) John the Baptist prepares the way
of the Lord which is the straight path:
And he came into all the country about Jordan,
preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission
of sins; As it is written in the book of the words of
Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in
the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his
paths straight.
In the Gospel according to John (14:6) Jesus calls Himself the
Way:
Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the
life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.
Islam, Lord Muhammad
In the opening chapter of the Qur’an the “Path of God” is
mentioned and there are very few Suras where the path or way
of God is not mentioned. Here the Opening of the Qur’an:
IN the name of the merciful and compassionate God.
Praise belongs to God, the Lord of the worlds, the
merciful, the compassionate, the ruler of the Day of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Judgment! Thee we serve and Thee we ask for aid. Guide
us in the right path, the path of those Thou art
gracious to; not of those Thou art wroth with; nor of
those who err. (Sura 1)
In Sura 6 — Cattle, Muhammad describes His Faith as the
straight path, the same path Abraham has followed:
Say: As for me, my Lord hath guided me into a straight
path; a true religion, the creed of Abraham, the sound
in faith; for he was not of those who join gods with
God.
Even other religious persuasions and moral authorities are
using this term in describing their religions.
Sikh: (Shri Guru Granth Sahib, Section 6 - Raag Maajh)
Those, within whom the Truth dwells, obtain the True
Name; they speak only the Truth. They walk on the
Lord's Path, and inspire others to walk on the Lord's
Path as well.
Tao: (Chuangtse (Lin Yutang tr.))
If each man keeps his own virtue, the world will avoid
deviation from the true path.
The idea of religion as Path of God comes closer than any
other term to what Shoghi Effendi calls the unity underlying the
various religions:
…this Faith is instilling into each of its adherents a new
love for, and a genuine appreciation of the unity
underlying, the various religions represented within its
pale. (WOB 196)
The unity of all religions is the avowed goal of the Bahá’í
Faith. The way to this unity is the appreciation of the path of
God, which all religions profess to present. Consequently, in
this paper the conclusion is made that talking about unity of
religion is talking about the one Path of God.

The Path of God
Ethics as the Practice of the Good Life
Ethics or moral philosophy is described as the attempt to
formulate codes and principles of moral behavior. The history
of ethics starts with the Sophists of the Greek world in the fifth
century BC. Plato, in opposition to the sophists, describes in
his dialogues the teachings of Socrates in regard to the question
“why should I be moral,” developing the philosophy “that the
good life consists in the harmony of the soul with each part of
the soul — reason, spirit, appetite — performing its proper
function”7 From this point of departure he describes the
traditional virtues.
Aristotle in his Nicomachean Ethics develops a general
theory of virtues. There are two important issues we will
emphasize, one being the fact that virtues are learned and that
one becomes virtuous by practicing virtues. In the words of
Aristotle:
The virtues we get by first exercising them, as also
happen in the case of the arts as well. For the things we
have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing
them, e.g., men become builders by building and lyre-
players by playing the lyre, so too we become just be
doing just acts, temperate by doing temperate acts,
brave by doing brave acts.8
The things we learn — and that applies to virtues, which have
to be learned — we learn by doing them. Being virtuous or
leading an ethical life is learned, and it is learned by practicing
it, by making choices and following good judgment. The other
issue stressed by Aristotle is the fact that virtues are the middle
between excess and defect, i.e., they are practiced in
moderation.
or the man who strays a little from the path, either
towards the more or towards the less, is not blamed …
How far, therefore, and how a man must stray before
he becomes blameworthy, it is not easy to state in
words …

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
But so much at least is plain that the middle state is
praiseworthy … While the excesses and defects are
blameworthy.9
More specifically, Bahá’u’lláh places moral behavior and
wisdom in the heart and in the innate powers of believer
Nay, from their hearts and the springs of their innate
powers hath gushed out unceasingly the inmost essence
of human learning and wisdom. (GWB 263)
Consequently, He states in the Arabic Hidden Words:
1. O SON OF SPIRIT!
My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and
radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient,
imperishable and everlasting.
In this context it must be understood that the seat of moral
behavior — of the virtues, is referred as being in the heart; that
they are learned and need to be practiced in order to give to the
heart an everlasting and imperishable quality.
In the Christian tradition of Ethics, Thomas Aquinas has
become the foremost representative in this area of thought. He
tried to solve the problem, which still occupies ethicists today,
how a secular understanding of man and of ethical behavior
can be harmonized with the idea that ethical behavior means
following the commands of God. This dilemma could be
formulated in the following way: Is the “good” good because it
is good, or is it good because God commands it?
This is a reformulation of the Euthyphro dilemma, as found
in Plato's dialogue Euthyphro, in which Socrates asks
Euthyphro: “Is the pious (τὸ ὅσιον) loved by the gods because it
is pious, or is it pious because it is loved by the gods?”10
The second part of this question can be interpreted as
arbitrariness on the side of God, the first implies that God has
to follow a moral rule, i.e., God is not omnipotent. In
Christian Ethics, both are true as God is the creator who
established human nature with the ability to recognize the good
life as commanded by God through human reason and
understanding.

The Path of God
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives a practical understanding for this
difference and for the need to base morals in the area of
religion:
This transformation of morals, this improvement of
conduct and of words, are they possible otherwise than
through the love of God? No, in the name of God.
If, by the help of science and knowledge, we wished to
introduce these morals and customs, truly it would
take a thousand years, and then they would not be
spread throughout the masses. (SAQ 304)
In the above quoted verses of Bahá’u’lláh, He places the
ability of man to recognize learning and wisdom in the powers
of the human heart. As pointed out in last year’s presentation,
the human heart is able to distinguish between positive and
negative emotions in its “little brain” and can be the
instrument of the soul of man to express this difference of
values, which can be monitored by the variation of heart
rhythms. In a paper on “Psycho-physiological Correlates of
Spiritual Experience” the training in positive emotions is
described and the following conclusion is made.
We believe that heart rhythm coherence training holds
promise as a practical and potent approach to
empower individuals to improve the quality of their
lives. By enabling the intentional self-generation and
reinforcement
of
physiological
states
that
are
correlated with increased love, care, compassion, inner
harmony, vitality and flow, in essence this intervention
helps individuals create an internal environment that is
conducive to fostering spiritual experience.
Some might indeed describe the end result as being able
to live more “from the heart.” in alignment with their
deepest core values, or with greater connection to
spirit.11
How these findings correlate with the Bahá’í Faith was
explained in last year’s presentation. Here it suffices to state
that the metaphorical understanding of heart in poetry and
religion is based on the nature of the human heart as an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
instrument of the soul and is much more realistic when the
findings of modern neurocardiology are considered.
Recent
work
in
the
relatively
new
field
of
Neurocardiology has firmly established that the heart is
a sensory organ and a sophisticated information
encoding and processing center. Its circuitry enables it
to learn, remember, and make functional decisions
independent of the cranial brain.12
This corresponds well with the Bahá’í understanding that the
human heart needs to be pure, kind and radiant, and that in
man is the innate spiritual power of human wisdom and
correct action.
Küng’s Questions to the Scholars of the Various
Religions
At the opening of the Exhibit on the World’s Religions at
Santa Clara University, March 31, 2005, Hans Küng said:
There will be no peace among the nations without peace
among the religions. There will be no peace among the
religions without dialogue among the religions.
The First World War was a war between empires and
nations; the Second World War was a war between ideologies,
which can be called religions (if we call Nazism and
Communism a religion); the Cold War was continuing this war
between ideologies; today’s War against Terrorists is clearly a
war that has a fanatical religious underpinning.
Bahá’u’lláh clearly distinguishes between the Path of God and
the path of error, and He explains what happened to religion
when religious leaders diverted the old religions from this Path
of God. Bahá’u’lláh accuses them outright of issuing new
commands that are leading into error giving as the motivation
for this behavior their pride and haughtiness.
Though they recognize in their hearts the Law of God
to be one and the same, yet from every direction they
issue a new command, and in every season proclaim a
fresh decree.

The Path of God
No two are found to agree on one and the same law, for
they seek not God but their own desire, and tread no
path but the path of error.
In leadership they have recognized the ultimate object
of their endeavour, and account pride and haughtiness
as the highest attainments of their heart's desire. (KI 29)
Speaking to Napoleon III of France, Bahá’u’lláh reminded
him that His Path is the same path presented by Christ; it is the
Straight Path, which was revealed by all Manifestations. As a
matter of fact, Bahá’u’lláh simply advises Napoleon to follow
in the path of Christ, to follow the religion he already
confesses. He admonishes him to arise and follow the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh, and in so doing Napoleon would also follow Christ
in this Straight Path. He warns the emperor that otherwise his
people will rebel against him, which actually happened.
Commotions shall seize all the people in that land,
unless thou arisest to help this Cause, and followest
Him Who is the Spirit of God (Jesus Christ) in this, the
Straight Path. (PB 20)
In the following section the Declaration Towards a Global
Ethic will be compared with the principles of the Bahá’í
religion; this comparison was suggested by the commentary of
the German theologian Hans Küng, who prepared the text of the
‘Declaration Towards a Global Ethic’ in 1993 for the
Parliament of the World’s Religions:
It will now be an enjoyable task for the scholars of the
various religions to work out the project for a global
ethic further in the light of their own religions and to
bring out three things:
How strongly the ‘Declaration Towards a Global Ethic’
is rooted in their own tradition;
How far their own tradition corresponds with other
ethical traditions;
How far their own tradition has a distinctive, specific,
special contribution to make to the ethic.13

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The first two questions can easily be answered from the
Bahá’í Faith, since this Faith claims that all religions (including
the Bahá’í Faith) are “stages in the eternal history and constant
evolution of one religion, Divine and indivisible, of which it
itself forms but an integral part.” (Shoghi Effendi WOB 114)
Consequently, a Global Ethic, which is deduced from the
ethical principles of all prior religions, will be equally rooted in
the Bahá’í Faith, which understands itself as the most recent
stage in the evolution of the understanding of God’s changeless
Religion.
There are multiple references to the Islamic and Christian
religion, as well as to the Zoroastrian and other religions in the
Bahá’í Writings, stressing the unity of religions and the
meaning of religion seen as a successive process of the one
progressive Revelation of God.
The comparison between principles presented in the Global
Ethic and in the Bahá’í Scriptures presented below will
exemplify this correspondence.
Principles Shared by the Global Ethic and the Bahá’í
Faith
This comparison can only be selective, but it demonstrates
the corresponding spirit and could be extended to a much more
comprehensive exemplification, which is here not possible
considering the limits of this paper. The statements from the
Global Ethic are selected from that part of the Declaration of
the Parliament of Religions, which was verbally presented in the
last plenary session and accepted there. (DGE 12-15)
From the Declaration
Towards a Global Ethic
From the Bahá’í Writings14
We consider humankind our
family

Compare the nations of the world to
the members of a family. A family is
a nation in miniature. (FWU 100)
We must strive to be kind
and generous
Possess a pure, kindly and radiant
heart (HW A 1)

The Path of God

To give and to be generous are
attributes of Mine; well is it with
him that adorneth himself with My
virtues. (HW P 49)
We must treat others as we
wish others to treat us

And if thine eyes be turned towards
justice, choose thou for thy neighbor
that which thou choosest for thyself
(ESW 29)
We respect life and dignity,
individuality and diversity, so
that every person is treated
humanely, without exception.
Its [the Bahá’í Faith’s] watchword is
unity in diversity (WOB 42)
We commit ourselves to a
culture of non-violence, and
respect for life
Violence and force, constraint and
oppression, are one and all
condemned. (KA 238)
To a culture of solidarity and
just economic order

The economic resources of the world
will be organized, its sources of raw
materials will be tapped and fully
utilized, its markets will be
coordinated and developed, and the
distribution of its products will be
equitably regulated (WOB 2040)
To a culture of equal rights
and partnership between men
and women

Yet another of the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh is the equality of men and
women and their equal sharing in all
rights. (SWA 249)
The following points of comparison better fit the third of
Küng’s questions, i.e., “How far their own tradition has a
distinctive, specific, special contribution to make to the
ethic.” It will be demonstrated that there is a distinct
difference, not so much in the statements themselves, but in the
context in which these assertions are placed, indicating that the
Bahá’í
Faith
has
revealed
a
new
worldview,
a
new
“Weltanschauung,” which does not change or abolish, but
rather enhances and renews the traditional worldview of the
previous religions.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The progress of Divine Revelation can be recognized in this
new context; as a matter of fact, this makes the Bahá’í Faith
truly a Faith for our time, a new Faith that corresponds to the
new understanding of the world and the new findings and
discoveries of science, as has been pointed out in previous
contributions by this author.
Although, there is no way to demonstrate the distinctive,
specific, and special contributions of the Bahá’í Faith in their
entirety, some aspects will be accentuated here, giving the
reader an example and a paradigm for the fact of the Unity of
all Religions, in which the Bahá’í Faith participates. This will
demonstrate, as well, the progress the one Divine Religion of
God is making from one Revelation to the next, as described in
the Bahá’í principle of Progressive Revelation.
In the following four statements selected from the
Declaration, it is pointed out that only in the context of the
Bahá’í Revelation can they properly be understood and
actualized. In other words, only when these statements are
interpreted or understood through the Bahá’í writings can they
make sense in today’s world and bring forth the intended fruit
Principles of the Global Ethic Improved upon by the
Bahá’í Faith
There are other principles declared in the Global Ethic that
are in the Bahá’í Faith as well, but seen in a different context
and therefore enhanced, when compared with the statements of
the Global Ethic, four of these principles will be outlined here,
and it will be shown how they are enhanced and put in a more
realistic context in the Bahá’í Faith. Some of the reasons why
the Global Ethic statements could not do that is indicated as
well.
The World is in Agony
The “Declaration Towards a Global Ethic” makes an initial
statement about the fundamental condition of today’s world
by stating:

The Path of God
The world is in agony. The agony is so pervasive and
urgent
that
we
are
compelled
to
name
its
manifestations so that the depth of this pain may be
made clear.
Following this, the declaration describes the agony and the
suffering that are common today, mentioning unemployment,
poverty, hunger and destruction of families. The declaration
talks about corruption, racial and ethnic conflicts, abuse of
drugs, crime and anarchy. Additionally they mention the near
collapse of the ecosystem of the world. They further deplore the
fact that the leaders and members of religions “incite
aggression, fanaticism, hate and xenophobia — even inspire
and legitimate violent and bloody conflicts.” Expressing their
feelings of disgust, the members of the Parliament of Religions
“condemn these blights and declare that they need not be.”
The same understanding about the situation of today’s
world is expressed in the Bahá’í Writings. One prayer of
Bahá’u’lláh will be quoted to demonstrate that the agony is well
perceived, but the answer to this situation is different and on
another level of reality, the spiritual or religious level. Only the
first two sections of this prayer will be quoted here and
analyzed sentence by sentence.
Lauded be Thy name, O Lord my God!
Darkness hath fallen upon every land, and the forces of
mischief have encompassed all the nations. Through
them, however, I perceive the splendors of Thy wisdom,
and discern the brightness of the light of Thy
providence.
They that are shut out as by a veil from Thee have
imagined that they have the power to put out Thy light,
and to quench Thy fire, and to still the winds of Thy
grace. Nay, and to this Thy might beareth me witness!
Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy
wisdom, and every ordeal the vehicle of Thy
providence, no one would have dared oppose us,
though the powers of earth and heaven were to be
leagued against us. (PM 14)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
As in many prayers, in the first sentence God is praised and
His name lauded. This beginning does not prepare us for the
next sentence, in which the topic of the whole prayer is
announced. In one short and pregnant sentence Bahá’u’lláh
describes the situation of the world today. In many other places
He has described it in more detail; here it is a straightforward
sentence that brings the situation of today’s world in the focus
of our view, when He says:
Darkness hath fallen upon every land, and the forces of
mischief have encompassed all the nations.
The whole contrast between light and darkness, as developed
throughout the history of religion is here pointed out,
beginning with the book of Genesis (1:3-4) where it is said:
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
And God saw the light, that it was good: and God
divided the light from the darkness.
This light of creation is applied to Christ in the Gospel of
John (1:4-5):
In him was life; and the life was the light of men. And
the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness
comprehended it not.
And later: (8:12)
Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the
light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in
darkness, but shall have the light of life.
In this context we have to understand the surprising next
sentence of the prayer of Bahá’u’lláh:
Through them, however, I perceive the splendors of Thy
wisdom, and discern the brightness of the light of Thy
providence.
We perceive through this darkness, through this absence of
the light — light of Creation and of the Manifestation — the
Splendor of God’s Wisdom and the Light of God’s Providence.
How can we understand that? It does not make sense in any

The Path of God
ordinary way. How can the darkness of the world make us see
the light of God’s providence?
Yet, this is not new. A similar understanding is clearly
expressed in the letter of the apostle Paul (1 Corinthians 1:23-24)
But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a
stumbling-block, and unto the Greeks foolishness; But
unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks,
Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God.
In the cross of Christ the power and the wisdom of God
becomes evident, just like Bahá’u’lláh stated in the prayer
below.
Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy
wisdom, and every ordeal the vehicle of Thy
providence, no one would have dared oppose us,
though the powers of earth and heaven were to be
leagued against us.
The darkness of the world opposes the Manifestation, and
the victory of the Manifestation over the darkness, through
cross and suffering, can only be understood when this very
suffering, this very tribulation and ordeal is seen as bringing
the victory of the Light of God through the Resurrection to the
world.
In a similar way, the victory of the Manifestation over the
darkness of the world is expressed in the hymn “Exulted,” being
sung in the Easter Night celebration in the Catholic Church,
where the victory of Christ over death in His resurrection is
celebrated with these words:
Rejoice, O earth, in shining splendor, radiant in the
brightness of your King! Christ has conquered! Glory
fills you! Darkness vanishes forever!
These statements and affirmations are only understandable
when we accept a new worldview, a new Heaven and Earth,
presented in every Manifestation of God to this World, as
expressed in the following section of the prayer:
They that are shut out as by a veil from Thee have
imagined that they have the power to put out Thy light,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
and to quench Thy fire, and to still the winds of Thy
grace. Nay, and to this Thy might beareth me witness!
The understanding of the enemies of the Faith of God has
been proven as nothing other than imagination and idle hope.
The light is always victorious over darkness, as all known
religions explain, from Zoroaster to Bahá’u’lláh. This victory
is, as Paul has said, a stumbling block and foolishness for
unbelievers. On the other hand, as it was written in a letter on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi: “with the aid of Bahá’u’lláh … we can
turn our stumbling blocks into stepping stones …” (LG 602). The
life and the teachings of the Manifestations of God
demonstrate this truth, as Bahá’u’lláh stated in this prayer:
Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy
wisdom, and every ordeal the vehicle of Thy
providence, no one would have dared oppose us,
though the powers of earth and heaven were to be
leagued against us. (PM 14)
We might speculate that in a world that is progressing and
heading towards a goal, changes from darkness to light, from
evil to good must happen. Considering that darkness is only the
absence of light and evil the absence of good, a process of
evolution will necessary imply that there will be darkness in
order that there be improvement, and there will be evil in order
to accentuate and bring forth the good.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives a long discourse about good and evil and
concludes:
The epitome of this discourse is that it is possible that
one thing in relation to another may be evil, and at the
same time within the limits of its proper being it may
not be evil. Then it is proved that there is no evil in
existence; all that God created He created good. This
evil is nothingness; so death is the absence of life. When
man no longer receives life, he dies. Darkness is the
absence of light: when there is no light, there is
darkness. Light is an existing thing, but darkness is
nonexistent. Wealth is an existing thing, but poverty is
nonexisting.

The Path of God
Then it is evident that all evils return to nonexistence.
Good exists; evil is nonexistent. (SAQ 264)
In light of this understanding it is clear that the evil, which
is lack of good, has a function in development of good in the
providence of God and can lead to a better understanding of
God’s wisdom.
World Transformation
The Declaration towards a Global Ethic expresses its
promise of world transformation by affirming that reflection,
mediation, prayer and positive thinking will result in a
conversion of the heart:
Earth cannot be changed for the better unless the
consciousness of the individuals is changed. We pledge
to work for such transformation in individual and
collective consciousness, for the awakening of our
spiritual powers through reflection, meditation,
prayer, or positive thinking, for a conversion of the
heart. Together we can move mountains! (DGE 36)
One, actually the most essential element necessary for this
transformation, is not mentioned here; it is the power of God’s
Revelation. It is interesting to note that the Declaration avoids
here and in other places the reference to God and especially to
His different Manifestations. The Catholic theologian Küng
could not have missed this essential element, but probably left
it out deliberately to avoid getting involved in the
interreligious argument regarding which of the different
Prophets truly revealed the Words of God.
This politically necessary omission again seems to indicate
that only the Unity of all Manifestations can explain the Unity
of all Religions, and all attempts to avoid this issue are
detrimental, not only to one or the other but to all religions of
God. Consider; if only one religion is true, then all of them have
to be doubted, at least by some or most of the other religions.
Only the Bahá’í belief that there is only one Religion, as revealed
by God, and that consequently there is only one Revelation to
humanity in a historical sequence through the many Prophets,
can solve the dilemma of the multiplicity of religions.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The statement of the Declaration that “together we can move
mountains” certainly reflects the Biblical Word, implying that
this togetherness must be based on the belief in a
Manifestation. In the Words of Jesus, in whom the Father is
manifest, we find:
And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief:
for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove
hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing
shall be impossible unto you. (Matthew 17:20)
Reading the following statement of Bahá’u’lláh, it is clear in
the context of the Bahá’í Faith that with “these exalted words”
the Revelation of God, as presented by all Prophets of the
different religions are intended, with special reference to the
Revelation of this day, that is the Word of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh.
Through the power released by these exalted words He
hath lent a fresh impulse, and set a new direction, to
the birds of men's hearts, and hath obliterated every
trace of restriction and limitation from God's holy
Book. (GWB 95-96)
While reflection, meditation, prayer, or positive thinking
are certainly elements in this transformation, it is stated here
that they are not by themselves effective, they are only bringing
about the transformation when based on the Word of God, as
revealed in every Manifestation.
Moderation and Political Power
The next issue to be dealt with in this comparison is
twofold. The Declaration recommends two things: the first is
to use a sense of moderation and modesty when it says: ‘We
must value a sense of moderation and modesty.”
The second is, that the Declaration recommends using
economic and political power in order to implant the global
ethic into this world, when it says: “We must utilize economic
and political power for service to humanity.” (p. 29)

The Path of God
Here again, the Bahá’í Faith has a more integral answer.
While affirming the first part, it disagrees with the use of
power in the sense of political or economic power.
Bahá’u’lláh recommends moderation in many places such as
the application to the progress of civilization, He sees
civilization as being both a source of evil or of good,
depending if the virtue of moderation is used in developing
civilization: “If carried to excess, civilization will prove as
prolific a source of evil as it had been of goodness when kept
within the restraints of moderation”. (GWB 342)
Not only is moderation recommend here, but it is clarified
as well that moderation actually makes the difference between
good and evil action, quite similar to the statement of
Aristotle mentioned above.
When talking on 30 May 1912 in a Theosophical Lodge on
Broadway and Seventy-Ninth Street in New York, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
stated clearly that political and economic power cannot be
used to achieve unity and world peace, which would include a
binding agreement on a global ethic. He indicates that such
powers can never succeed. While this writer cannot assure the
reader that these are the actual words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá given in
an authorized translation, they clearly are consonant with
other statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Therefore, a power is needed to carry out and execute
what is known and admitted to be the remedy for
human conditions — namely, the unification of
mankind.
Furthermore, it is evident that this cannot be realized
through
material
process
and
means.
The
accomplishment of this unification cannot be through
racial power, for races are different and diverse in
tendencies. It cannot be through patriotic power, for
nationalities are unlike. Nor can it be effected through
political power since the policies of governments and
nations are various. That is to say, any effort toward
unification through these material means would
benefit one and injure another because of unequal and
individual interests. Some may believe this great

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
remedy can be found in dogmatic insistence upon
imitations and interpretations. This would likewise be
without foundation and result.
Therefore, it is evident that no means but an ideal
means, a spiritual power, divine bestowals and the
breaths of the Holy Spirit will heal this world sickness
of war, dissension and discord. Nothing else is
possible; nothing can be conceived of. But through
spiritual means and the divine power it is possible and
practicable. (PUP 157)
What ‘Abdu’l-Bahá seems to say here is that the unification
must come first, before peace and acceptance of a global ethic
is possible, and that this unification presupposes a spiritual
power unifying the world. In other words unification of the
world is only possible on the spiritual basis of the unification
of the religions of the world. The Declaration also realizes that
any real change comes from insight, and from the power of
meditation and prayer, or positive thinking as it is called. This
aspect will be followed up below.
Conversion of the Heart
The Declaration acknowledges the need for transformation
and asserts that such a transformation must come from a
conversion of the heart:
We pledge to work for such transformation … for the
awakening of our spiritual powers through reflection,
meditation, prayer, or positive thinking, for a
conversion of the heart. (p. 36)
As mentioned before, the Declaration does not refer to the
Divine influence exerted through the Manifestation, or
Prophet, in order to avoid the issue of who is and who is not a
“real” Manifestation of God. Considering the present state of
affairs this seems to be a necessary precaution in order to
avoid the old argument between religions, questioning which
the true religion is and which is not. This very argument has
caused many wars and disagreements in the past.

The Path of God
Only the Bahá’í solution, to acknowledge all world religions
as being founded by God for their time, can solve this problem.
Therefore the Bahá’í Scriptures have no hesitation in asserting
that the influence of God is needed to achieve the proposed
transformation
Through the power released by these exalted words He
hath lent a fresh impulse, and set a new direction, to
the birds of men's hearts. (GWB 95)
The Declaration only mentions the activities on the side of
man, like prayer, meditation and positive thinking, but does
not mention that this is futile unless it is based on a Revelation
of God, as the Catholic theologian Küng well knew. Prayer and
meditation does not originate in the human condition, and
man cannot elevate himself towards the Divine. This power to
address the Creator in prayer does not come from the creation.
It is a gift, a token of God’s grace to man. Bahá’u’lláh clearly
expressed the impossibility of the “birds of the human heart” to
achieve this task, i.e., to be able to reach God, when He said:
How can I make mention of Thee, assured as I am that
no tongue, however deep its wisdom, can befittingly
magnify Thy name, nor can the bird of the human
heart, however great its longing, ever hope to ascend
into the heaven of Thy majesty and knowledge. (GWB 3)
In the following passage taken from the beginning of the
Seven Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh expressed in poetic language, and in
reference to the Qur’án and the Imám ‘Alí, the thought that the
prayer is originated in the heart by the Fear of God and as a
fruit of memory of the lost paradise, which is approached when
one walks in the Path of God, i.e., follow the Revelation of the
Manifestations.
Of this hath the nightingale of oneness sung in the
garden of Ghawthíyih [Sermon by Ali] He saith: “And
there shall appear upon the tablet of thine heart a
writing of the subtle mysteries of 'Fear God and God
will give you knowledge'; [Qur'án 2:282] and the bird of
thy soul shall recall the holy sanctuaries of preexistence
and soar on the wings of longing in the heaven of 'walk
the beaten paths of thy Lord', [Qur'án 16:71.] and gather

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
the fruits of communion in the gardens of ‘Then feed
on every kind of fruit.’ (SFV 3)
It is not unimportant to keep this in mind, because in the
New Age Movement of today it is contended that man can, by
his own power through mediation and spiritual development,
reach an access to the Divine. This was most powerfully
presented by Ken Wilber and can be called spiritual
materialism, where the human power can by itself reach
towards God, or what Wilber calls the “World Soul” or “God
or Goddess.” This basically materialistic understanding of the
world, which is presented in transcendental psychology, is
expressed by Wilber in the following sentence:
And every I becomes a God, and every WE becomes
God’s sincerest worship, and every IT becomes God’s
temple.15
Therefore, in this view, it is not God Who is transcendent,
but the human psyche can transcend this world by higher forms
of reason and mediation. This thought was further developed
in a previous paper by this writer.16
God as Ultimate Reality
Here again the Declaration presents the truth very cautiously
and avoids calling God by any name, but replaces this concept
with the term “ultimate reality”. Hans Küng explains that this
was necessary in order to not offend the Buddhist Religion,
which does not talk about God but acknowledges a
transcendent reality towards which we strive.
As religious and spiritual persons we base our lives on
an Ultimate Reality, and draw spiritual power and
hope therefrom, in trust, in prayer or meditation, in
word or silence. (DGE 19)
It is interesting that the Bahá’í Faith can easily accept this
formulation as the Bahá’í writings clearly state that the essence
of God is unknowable and inaccessible:
God in His Essence and in His own Self hath ever been
unseen, inaccessible, and unknowable. (ESW 118)

The Path of God
There are many statements explaining this fact and
consequently the term “ultimate reality,” for what is usually
called God, fits this understanding. Again as before, the Bahá’í
Faith insists that all assistance in delivering mankind from its
state of grievous abasement comes from the Hand of Divine
power and not from prayer and meditation alone as the
Declaration seems to insinuate.
We cherish the hope that the Hand of Divine power
may lend its assistance to mankind, and deliver it from
its state of grievous abasement. (GWB 93)
The Bahá’í Understanding of Religious Unity
The Bahá’í Faith asserts the unity of all religions and the
unity of all the Prophets and Founders of the major world
religions, calling them the Manifestations of God for their
time. They renew the one religion of God by restating,
updating and presenting again the fundamental verities of all
of God’s religions, as well as changing, promoting and
adjusting the moral rules to the time, considering the changes
in the evolution of mankind. This is expressed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
They establish a new religion and make new creatures of
men; They change the general morals, promote new
customs and rules, renew the cycle and the Law. (SAQ
164)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá distinguishes between Founders of religions
like Buddha and philosophers who renew the morals of their
time like Confucius:
Buddha also established a new religion, and Confucius
renewed morals and ancient virtues, but their
institutions have been entirely destroyed. (SAQ 165)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the following passage (SWA 15.7) opens up the
vision of unity in this world which has as its center the unity of
religion. He describes the process of unification in the picture
of the light of seven candles, saying “Behold how its light is now
dawning upon the world’s darkened horizon.” Talking about
these seven candles of light, the unity of religion takes the
center place as the fourth candle, which can be compared to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
arrangement of the Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh, where the
Valley of Unity is the fourth of seven valley as well. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá gives this unity the place of a cornerstone, stating:
The fourth candle is unity in religion, which is the
cornerstone of the foundation itself, and which, by the
power of God, will be revealed in all its splendor. (SWA
15.7)
The first three candles present “unity in the political realm”,
“unity of thought in world undertakings,” and “unity in
freedom which will surely come to pass.”
The fifth candle after the unity of religion is “unity of
nations,” which unity will be “causing all the peoples of the
world to regard themselves as citizens of one common
fatherland.” The sixth candle is “unity of races, making of all
that dwell on earth peoples and kindreds of one race,” and the
final candle is described as “unity of language, i.e., the choice
of a universal tongue in which all peoples will be instructed and
converse.”
This arrangement indicates that unity of religion is the
centerpiece or cornerstone of all unity, it does not give us a
timeline, and describes these unifications rather as a process
“now dawning upon the world’s darkened horizon.”
He concludes with this statement indicating that
Each and every one of these will inevitably come to
pass, inasmuch as the power of the Kingdom of God
will aid and assist in their realization. (SWA 31-32)
In this verse He seemingly refers to the progress and the
evolution of humanity, asserting that this progress will happen
as prophesied by Jesus in the Lord’s Prayer. (Matthew 6:10)
Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in
heaven.
The question arises: How does this relate to the contention
made in this paper that the first step towards a unity of
religion will be in the area of ethics, as anticipated by the
Declaration Towards a Global Ethic? As it has been mentioned
above, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, while not mentioning ethics in this

The Path of God
enumeration of progressive unification of the world, has
stated the following about the Founders of the world’s
religions, which is a statement of ethics, of making men new
creatures and changing general morals by new customs and
rules:
They establish a new religion and make new creatures of
men; They change the general morals, promote new
customs and rules, renew the cycle and the Law. (SAQ
164)
This change of morals has to be understood as a renewal and
improvement in the area of ethics that every Manifestation has
promoted. One could compare it as the growing of a tree from
insignificant seeds to an ever growing, fully developed
structure. In the same way has the ethic of the different
religions been growing, has been adjusted to the development
of man, and therefore all these ethical principles of different
religions are building a complete structure that can today be
described as a global ethic. This is the value of this Declaration
for all religions, so that they can compare and agree upon these
general principles and become increasingly united through these
considerations.
There are differences in particular ethical statements
between different religions, but it can be assumed that these
differences are manmade. For example, in Islam it is generally
allowed to disavow one’s faith in order to save oneself, while in
Christianity and in the Bahá’í Faith, this is not allowed, and the
death of the believer as a martyr could sometimes be the
outcome of this ethical principle.
How will unification of religions come about?
The Declaration raises some warning signs about a possible
unification of religions and states clearly what it could not be
(emphasis in the original):
By a global ethic we do not mean a global ideology nor
a single unified religion beyond all existing religion,
and certainly not the domination of one religion over
all others. By a global ethic we mean a fundamental

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
consensus on binding values, irrevocable standards
and personal attitudes.
What kind of misunderstanding has to be excluded from this
global ethic or in any unification of religion? The four possible
principles are excluded as leading to a real unity in ethic
understanding and even more significantly in religion.
Triumphalism
The Declaration clearly states that any form of triumphalism
does not lead to a unity of religion, when it said:
By a global ethic we do not mean a global ideology or a
single unified religion beyond all existing religions, and
certainly not the domination of one religion over all
others. (GE 21)
Eclecticism
This is another form of attempted unification that picks
and chooses parts from the different religions and attempts to
form a unified religion, missing the essential of what religion
is. This would be like picking the best from all religions and
making a combination thereof (Supermarket or Smorgasbord
of Religions).
Collectivism
When unity is misunderstood as uniformity the result would
be a system of collective control and uniformity of all religions
in a global ideology. In the last century, several ideologies have
tried this approach and the world is still suffering from these
attempts. At the turn of the last century two books described
this process. A. N. Wilson in “God’s Funeral”17 describes the
increasing atheism during the last two centuries, and Mark
Mazower in “Dark Continent”18 describes Europe as a
nightmarish laboratory for social and political engineering,
explaining fascism and communism as the ideological struggle
for Europe’s future.

The Path of God
Minimalism
This principle is best described by Unitarian Universalist
Association (UUA), founded in 1961 as a consolidation of the
American Unitarian Association and the Universalist Church
in America. While the certain laudable attempt “to achieve free
and responsible search for truth and meaning” is pursued, the
result is a minimalistic acceptance of everything without
guidance and without a discernable goal.
The Unity of Religion in the Bahá’í Faith
Shoghi Effendi (WOB 57) responds to these attempts of
unification in a lengthy passage, stating the following about
the unity of religions:
Let no one, however, mistake my purpose. The
Revelation, of which Bahá’u’lláh is the source and
center, abrogates none of the religions that have
preceded it, nor does it attempt, in the slightest degree,
to distort their features or to belittle their value.
It disclaims any intention of dwarfing any of the
Prophets of the past, or of whittling down the eternal
verity of their teachings.
It can, in no wise, conflict with the spirit that
animates their claims, nor does it seek to undermine
the basis of any man's allegiance to their cause.
These sentences clearly explain how the Bahá’í Faith
understands the unity of religion as not at all based on
abrogating, dwarfing or undermining any of the existing
religions of the world. The opposite is true. Shoghi Effendi
declares here that it is the purpose of the Bahá’í Faith to enable
the followers of all religions to understand their own religion
more fully:
Its declared, its primary purpose is to enable every
adherent
of
these
Faiths
to
obtain
a
fuller
understanding of the religion with which he stands
identified, and to acquire a clearer apprehension of its
purpose.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
This will exclude a superficial eclecticism, as well as any
arrogant triumphalism:
It is neither eclectic in the presentation of its truths,
nor arrogant in the affirmation of its claims.
This understanding is based on a new understanding of
religion and of the fundamental unity of all religions and their
historical evolution, claiming that Divine Revelation is
progressive, not final.
Its teachings revolve around the fundamental principle
that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that
Divine Revelation is progressive, not final.
Summarizing this explanation he states the fundamental unity
of all religions in origin, aim, function and purpose:
Unequivocally and without the least reservation it
proclaims all established religions to be divine in
origin, identical in their aims, complementary in their
functions, continuous in their purpose, indispensable
in their value to mankind.
Contrasting his understanding of religious unity with
previous attempts described above, which have had devastating
effects on society, the Guardian here indicates how this unity
can come about, and describes that this is already seminally
practiced in the Bahá’í Faith:
Far from wishing to add to the number of the religious
systems, whose conflicting loyalties have for so many
generations disturbed the peace of mankind, this Faith
is instilling into each of its adherents a new love for,
and a genuine appreciation of the unity underlying, the
various religions represented within its pale. (WOB 196)
The unity of religion cannot come from any external,
artificial, or political and diplomatic process: it has to come
from a new understanding of what religion is, and of a vision
that finds the underlying unity of all religious. Can it not be
said that the first inkling of such a new vision can be observed
in the attempts made by the Parliament of Religions, which was
expressed in the Declaration Towards a Global Ethic?

The Path of God
Towards a Bahá’í Ethic
In a prayer Bahá’u’lláh has given us an indication where this
unity will lead humanity. After the initial praise of God,
Bahá’u’lláh expresses that those “who have recognized Thy
[God’s] reality” … “can never hope to pass beyond the bounds,
which … have been fixed in their own hearts.” He further
explains that “every created thing hath recognized its own
impotence, and the power of Thy might, and hath confessed its
own abasement and Thy great glory.”
Having clarified here, as in many other places, the impotence
of human reason to reach to God, He declares what access God
has given humankind to know Him and to worship Him, by
referring to God’s Firstness and Lastness which is identical to
His Revelation and Concealment. This understanding will then,
as a gift to the believers, allow them to reveal this truth about
God to all creatures by becoming manifest signs of God’s
grace, and by following the Path of God.
I beseech Thee by Thy Lastness which is the same as Thy
Firstness, and by Thy Revelation which is identical
with Thy Concealment, to grant that they who are dear
to Thee, and their children, and their kindred, may
become the revealers of Thy purity amidst Thy
creatures, and the manifestations of Thy sanctity
amongst Thy servants. (PM 229)
In another place Bahá’u’lláh has more clearly spoken about
these four states of man and how they relate to God. What is
here
called
Firstness
and
Lastness,
Revelation
and
Concealment, is in the Four Valleys called Firstness and
Lastness, Outwardness and Inwardness, as explained in a
previous paper of this author.19
In the same Tablet of the Four Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh speaks
about the four journeys in the Pathways of Love, describing the
Path of God in this fourfold structure. A brief prayer of the
Báb, which was highly recommended by Bahá’u’lláh, completes
this structure as is being pointed out in the following picture.
When we put these four fourfold statements together in this
arrangement, the basic structure of life, especially of life as the
Path of God, becomes transparent. This view can be regarded

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
as an attempt to formulate a Bahá’í Ethic based on the human
essence as described in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
The below presented figure consists of three statements of
the Bahá’í Writings and one collection of four basic Bahá’í
concepts, which are here presented first as they appear in the
Writings and are below combined in the figure of four
quadrants.
The framework for this figure is taken from Bahá’u’lláh’s
descriptions in the Seven Valleys (SVFV 27) of “these four states”
that are “true of thyself” and “conferred upon thee:”
Inwardness — Outwardness
Firstness — Lastness
Four basic concepts of Bahá’í Life are in the top of each of the
four squares:
Prayer — Unity
Service — Order
Below this are the four statements from the Báb’s “Remover of
Difficulty” Prayer (SWB 216):
Praised be God — He is God
All Are His servants — All abide by His bidding
The last are the four statements of Bahá’u’lláh’s Journeys in the
Pathway of Love (SVFV 25):
Creature to True One — True One to True One
True One to Creature — Creature to Creature

The Path of God
This figure is based on four statements from the Bahá’í
Scriptures, which are here unified and organized as a whole, in
an attempt to better understand these statements in the
context of each other. All of these statements have the same
structure: they consist of four quadrants, each of them
consisting of a pair of oppositional concepts that are united
and set against another pair of oppositional concepts. In a
sense this can be understood as an ontological principle of the
created world, and examples of this structure can be found in
Bahá’í Scripture in many places. It is understood by this writer
as an expression of what Shoghi Effendi calls, in several places,
the watchword of the Bahá’í Faith: “Its watchword is unity in
diversity such as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself has explained” (WOB 42):
In the following, these four different quadrants will be
explicated towards a Bahá’í Ethic. Several issues need to be
clarified before the quadrants can be explored by themselves in
their practical meaning towards the ethical behavior of people

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
in the Path of God. These guidelines apply, not only to Bahá’ís,
but to people of all religions in their honest attempt to travel
this Straight Path according to the directions of their Prophets
or Manifestations.
First: What are these quadrants, and what do the different
statements in them mean in relation to each other, i.e., being
differentiated from and united with each other?
Second: How to they relate to each other on an essential or
ontological level?
And, third: How do they relate to the actual ethical behavior
of the individual, to any organization, from family to nation
to humanity, or to the world as a whole.
Since it is not very difficult to find more quadruple
statements of the same structure in other Bahá’í writings, there
must be a special meaning to this arrangement. This writer
almost accidentally found the first of these statements after
reading the books of Ken Wilber, who has a similar structure
on the basis of his integral understanding of human nature and
of the world. In a previous paper of this writer20, he described
what this surprising correspondence might mean and how the
Wilberian concept needs to be extended and improved when
applied to concepts used in the Bahá’í Writings.
The four quadrants are formed by the framework of the
statements of Bahá’u’lláh in the Seven Valleys (SVFV 27) and can
be described as follows:
1. Inwardness and Firstness
2. Inwardness and Lastness
3. Outwardness and Firstness
4. Outwardness and Lastness
With Inwardness the Spiritual, the Hidden, the Concealed is
expressed; with Outwardness its opposite, the Material, the
Manifest and the Revealed is indicated. The opposition
between hidden and manifest, or inward and outward, or
concealed and revealed, is what in today’s parlance is called the
opposition between spiritual and material. What needs to be

The Path of God
repeated here is that both sides of these opposing concepts are
seen not only as opposing each other but at the same time as
forming a unity, which is expressed in the next paragraph where
Bahá’u’lláh states that in the sphere of that which is relative,
i.e., in the created world, these concepts are separated because
of the limitation of men. On the other hand Bahá’u’lláh affirms
that those who have passed over the world of the relative and
the limited have burned away these relativities. They will then
swim in the sea of the spirit and soar in the holy air of light. In
this vision, in this realm, the first is the last itself, and the last
is but the first.
These statements are made in the sphere of that which is
relative, because of the limitations of men. Otherwise,
those personages who in a single step have passed over
the world of the relative and the limited, and dwelt on
the fair plane of the Absolute, and pitched their tent in
the worlds of authority and command — have burned
away these relativities with a single spark, and blotted
out these words with a drop of dew. And they swim in
the sea of the spirit, and soar in the holy air of light.
Then what life have words, on such a plane, that “first”
and “last” or other than these be seen or mentioned! In
this realm, the first is the last itself, and the last is but
the first. (SVFV 27)
This can be understood as implying that in this world of the
relative and limited, where unity is created from the
unification of parts and where the parts are constituted
through the whole which they form, the world has to be seen in
these oppositions, while from a higher perspective, these
oppositions fall together in an integrated unity. There is not
only a unity in the opposing concepts, like first and last, as
Bahá’u’lláh explains: because the same person is first to his son
and last to his father, in the same way hidden and manifest has
to be seen as belonging to both and at the same time to every
individual person, animal, plant or thing.
The whole creation is also always both, spirit and matter,
hidden and manifest, concealed and revealed, first and last,
individual and collective. And yet, from a spiritual point of
view, these oppositions are again forming a higher unity, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
therefore Bahá’u’lláh can say that first is the last and last is the
first — or the often repeated phrase, that God is the most
hidden of the hidden and the most manifest of the manifest. At
the end of this statement in the Seven Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh
reaches in the area of the mystical, and therefore He quotes
from the Mathnaví of the great mystic, Jalálu’d-Dín Rúmí
(1207-1273 A.D.) the following verse, combining this spiritual
vision with love and the fire of ecstasy, which will burn all
limitations and relativities of this world:
In thy soul of love build thou a fire
And burn all thoughts and words entire. (SVFV 27)
When later these quadrants are applied to the ethical
behavior on the Path of God, this unity of the opposites must
never be forgotten. Consequently it is explained by Bahá’u’lláh
that prayer and service have the same value, even though, one,
the prayer, belongs to the inward and hidden aspect of this
world, while, the other, service clearly belongs to the manifest
and material action of a person. And this is true of all the
quadrants. None has a prerogative or priority in the relative
world of ethical action; only in the unity of these aspects is the
spiritual nature of the world manifest.
It is clear from many statements of the Writings that this is
not only a practical and ethical principle, but it is a
constituent and fundamental aspect of the created world, the
world of limitation and relativity. If the four quadrants are
explicated in the realm of ethics and are describing the Path of
God, these three principles need always to be kept in mind.
The Four Quadrants, Possible Cornerstones of a Bahá’í
Ethic
In the following the four quadrants will be described
separately, with their spiritual unity taken into account. This
is a brief description of what could be an extensive outline
towards the development of a future Bahá’í Ethic. Obviously, a
more extensive outline is not possible in the frame of this
paper. What is here presented is more of a description of basic
principles that could be the basis of a Bahá’í Ethic if it stands

The Path of God
the test of time and consultation. Therefore it has to be
regarded as containing tentative and prospective suggestions
for further studies.
Prayer
This is the title of the left upper quadrant which is framed by
the concepts of inwardness or concealment and firstness or
individuality. In this quadrant the focus is on the personal and
individual life of man. It is what we would call the spiritual
and the religious aspect of man. Usually, the concept of soul is
placed in this area, but it needs to be expanded. Because soul is
not restricted to this area, it is really establishing the unity of
all of these four quadrants. The soul is in all of them and is a
single reality, as Bahá’u’lláh clearly states:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and
hearing are but one single reality which hath manifold
expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments.
(SLH 155)
The soul is differentiated only by the instruments it uses. In
other words, the soul of man must be in all four spheres, and
cannot be restricted to one aspect of man.
In this quadrant we place the statement of the Báb’s prayer
“Praised be God” and it is related to the statement of the
journeys on the pathway of love as being from the “Creature to
the True One”. From this inner aspect of the person, the prayer
is directed to the True One in a very individual and personal
process of elevating the heart in love to God. The statement of
the fifth Arabic Hidden Word fits this intention:
5. O SON OF BEING!
Love Me, that I may love thee. If thou lovest Me not,
My love can in no wise reach thee. Know this, O
servant. (AHW)
This love is expressed in the praise of God, that is, the
correct approach of the creature to the True One. Prayer in the
love of God is not only a fountain of living waters for the one,
who prays, attracting the love of God; it furthermore
announces the message of the loving God in every world of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
God’s worlds. Prayer has not only global reach, but a truly
cosmic significance, as stated in a prayer of Bahá’u’lláh:
Make my prayer, O my Lord, a fountain of living
waters whereby I may live as long as Thy sovereignty
endureth, and may make mention of Thee in every
world of Thy worlds. (PM 318)
Prayer, while individual and personal, is not limited in its
meaning to the individual, but its goal is to mention God in
every world of Thy worlds, that is, in the whole creation of
God. Therefore, it is not restricted to the individual, in the
sense of excluding others. It must be connected with the other
three quadrants as well; it goes out from the individual but
encompasses all. It must include and will attract all of
humanity and the entire world, affecting all four quadrants. By
causing the heart of every righteous man to throb the prayer
said in the privacy his chamber influences and elevates, “these
four states” that are “true of thyself” and “conferred upon thee
(SVFV 27) i.e., all the four quadrants in the above picture. The
following words of Bahá’u’lláh need to be understood in this
context:
Intone, O My servant, the verses of God that have been
received by thee, as intoned by them who have drawn
nigh unto Him, that the sweetness of thy melody may
kindle thine own soul, and attract the hearts of all men.
Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his chamber, the
verses revealed by God, the scattering angels of the
Almighty shall scatter abroad the fragrance of the
words uttered by his mouth, and shall cause the heart
of every righteous man to throb. (GWB 295)
Unity
Unity is the next quadrant; it is related to inwardness and
concealment like prayer, but it is formulated in the area of
lastness or collective. Before going into details of this
quadrant, it can easily be seen that it is closely connected with
the previous quadrant, with prayer. The fact that there is no
official congregational prayer in the Bahá’í Faith becomes clear
from this distinction. The Prayer for the Dead is the only

The Path of God
exception to this rule, and it is related to a specific and
manifest occasion. Otherwise Bahá’u’lláh has abrogated all
official community prayers of prior religions. Prayer is
restricted to the individual and does not belong in this
quadrant. This does not exclude the fact that people can pray
together; it only means that there is no distinctive different
value to such prayers; it is not an official prayer any different
than the individual prayer. When Bahá’ís pray together they
pray to God as individuals, not as a church with official
priests or leaders of this prayer.
While, as mentioned before, all quadrants have to be seen in
a mystical unity, this quadrant is exclusively dedicated to the
unity of humankind, to the unity of all Manifestations and
ultimately to the Unity of God. Therefore it corresponds to the
statement of the Báb’s prayer He is God and to the journey on
the Pathway of Love stating from the True One to True One,
indicating that the unity of God can only be seen in the unity
of the Manifestations.
Considering this from the point of view that all quadrants
are unified on a higher spiritual and mystical level, we can state
here as an ethical principle, that any prayer to God, which is
not carried by the spirit of Unity of humanity and of all
Manifestations, becomes defective and vice versa — that any
consideration of unity, be it the unity of family, nation, or
humanity, as well as the unity of all religions, can only be true
when based on the individual prayer and included in the praise
of God. This unity needs to be supported by individual service
and carried forward through the institutions to keep it in
order. Whenever a Bahá’í expresses the praise of God, all of the
religions and all of mankind must be included in this elevation
of the individual soul. Therefore, most Bahá’í prayers start
with this praise of God.
Service
Here we are in the area of Outwardness or that which is
revealed and seen. The other frame of this quadrant is the
aspect of firstness and of the individual. Certainly, service and
work are material efforts, can be seen, can be rewarded
materially and promote civilization.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Again considering the unity of all quadrants, work does not
acquire the status of service if it is not directed towards unity,
towards promotion of humanity and its civilization. This
direction has to include the personal spiritual life of the
servant; otherwise it would be only an external exercise. It is
becoming evident how these quadrants support, promote and
undergird each other.
In the “The Remover of Difficulties,” prayer of the Báb, this
is clearly expressed by the statement: All are His servants.
Service is His service. The journeys in the pathway of love bring
another aspect into this consideration. When combined with
prayer service, is described as From the True One to the
Creatures. Generally, this is not how we think. We regard any
service, any job, as our achievement, as our own effort and
would not see it as something that comes from God to the
creature. Let’s consider what Bahá’u’lláh expresses in the
following statement:
The tie of servitude established between the worshiper
and the adored One, between the creature and the
Creator, should in itself be regarded as a token of His
gracious favor unto men, and not as an indication of
any merit they may possess. (GWB 193)
What is this tie of servitude between the Creator and the
creature? Primarily it is the duty prescribed to God’s servant to
extol His majesty and glory, in other words, to praise God, as
this verse of Bahá’u’lláh clearly expresses:
Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy servants
of extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but
a token of Thy grace unto them, that they may be
enabled to ascend unto the station conferred upon
their own inmost being, the station of the knowledge
of their own selves. (GWB 4)
But must not this bond of servitude be extended to all
service of man? Is not all of human work a service in praise of
God? And does not the statement above clarify that service is
not an indication of any merit for the servant? It is a token of
the grace of God that alone makes it meritorious and valuable
for man.

The Path of God
Service has to be seen as a token of God’s grace, as a gift to
allow us to ascend to a higher station of the self. The example
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá certainly gives testimony to that kind of
spiritual progress. Another consideration can help us
understand this ethical principle. Today’s unemployed would
certainly see it as a gift if somebody gave them a job. So a
person, who has not been given the gift of service from God, is
like a beggar, a useless member of society who fails to reach the
inmost value of being human.
Order
This fourth quadrant is dominated by its outwardness and
lastness or collectiveness. It is the order which has to make
unity manifest in this material world. This is the reason why
the administrative order of the Bahá’í Faith is not a worldly and
unimportant aspect of life, but is equally important as prayer,
spiritual unity and service. An administrative order must be
based on all of these aspects of life; otherwise it will not
function well. When electing the administrative institutions,
prayer and knowledge of the community are required, so the
election becomes an essential aspect of the Bahá’í life.
When we consider the many things the Guardian says about
the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, and especially his statement
that we cannot know how it will look in the future, it becomes
quite clear that only if all of these four quadrants are verified in
society can this administrative order be fashioned. This is the
ultimate goal of the new world order.
In such an order and civilization the “Remover of
Difficulties” prayer of the Báb will be fulfilled because: All
abide by His bidding, and this order and structure will be what
the creatures will give to the creatures as expressed in that
journeys on the pathway of love, creating a humanity that is
unified, at peace and animated by the individual’s prayers, by
the spiritual unity of mankind and promoted by the service of
all.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Towards a Bahá’í Ethic
It is hoped that this combination and structure imminent in
the Bahá’í Writings will not only allow us to look into the
future of the Bahá’í commonwealth, but give us a guideline on
the Path of God, make this the Straight Path, the True Path, and
lead mankind to the Most Great Peace. Individually, it could be
stated that we must learn to see all aspects of life as this Path of
God; we cannot exclude or separate the material, the
administrative, the unity of mankind and everyday service and
prayer from this path.
Whenever someone believes they are “living the life” as a
Bahá’ís, yet overlook this total integration of all aspects of the
human being, they are in danger of going astray. Some signs of
these errors are the following:
o Words, thoughts and even prayers that do not include
all, but separate and exclude others.
o Scientific pursuits fall into this category if they
overlook the organic structure of the Faith, if they are
not executed in the service of the community, or if
they disrupt the harmony between science and
religion.
o Individual actions, which are not coordinated with
the administrative order, even community action
following other than these principles, will not
promote the fourfold structure of the Path of God.
o Believers, who are not in touch with the ethical
principles of the Faith and do not accept the guidance
of their assemblies, place themselves outside of the
community in some way. Not in every case will that
behavior deprive them of their voting rights, but it
could well deprive them of the spiritual connection
with the Faith.
On the other hand the administrative organs of the Faith can
never forget that the unity they need to promote is a unity in
diversity, and everybody has to be respected and valued in their
individual ability and nature. Only when both the individual
and the community aspect of the Bahá’í Cause are respected

The Path of God
and find a living harmony, can the New World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh be realized in the future.
We have to be cautious not to be one-sided, we have to
constantly redirect our efforts, and this is only possible if we
continuously dive into the Ocean of His Words and make the
Bahá’í Scripture the compass of all ethical striving.

NOTES
1 Aristotle, The Nicomachean Ethic, translated by David Ross, Oxford
University Press, 1998
2 Hans Küng and Karl-Joseph Kuschel, editors, A Global Ethic, The
Declaration of the Parliament of the World’s Religions, Continuum,
New York,1993
3 A more extensive description of this event can be found in H.M.
Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh,
George Ronald, Oxford 1972, pp. 63-65
4 About Khayru'llah see Robert H. Stockman, in The Bahá’í Faith in
America, Origins 1892-1900, volume 1, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Illinois, 1985. In this book the life of Kheiralla (this is the
transcription used in this book) and his teaching method is
comprehensively describes, as well as the people he converted to the
Bahá’í Faith.
5 The Wikipedia has the following note on Hans Küng:
Born 1928 he studied theology and philosophy at the Pontificial
Gregoriana University in Rome and was ordained in 1954 (this author
studied at the same University philosophy, later he studied theology
with Karl Rahner in Innsbruck, Austria).
He then continued his education in various European cities, including the
Sorbonne in Paris.
In 1960 Küng was appointed professor of theology at the University
Tübingen, Germany.
Just like his colleague Joseph Ratzinger (now Pope Benedict XVI) and
Karl Rahner (1904-1984), in 1962 he was appointed peritus by Pope
John XXIII, to the Second Vaticanum Council.
At Küng's instigation, the Catholic Faculty at Tübingen appointed
Ratzinger as professor of dogmatic.
Later Hans Küng rejected the doctrine of papal infallibility, and was
stripped of his license to teach Catholic theology in 1979, continuing
teaching ecumenical theology.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

6 The Bahá’í Faith, the official website of the Bahá’ís of the United States:
http://bahai.us
7 Ted Honderich, editor, The Oxford Guide to Philosophy, Oxford
University Press, Oxford, 1995, 2005 under ‘history of moral
philosophy’. In the section on ‘ethics and aesthetics’ the virtue ethics
of Aristotle is described and compared with other systems of ethics.
8 Aristotle, The Nicomachean Ethic, translated by David Ross, Oxford
University Press, Oxford World’s Classics, Oxford 1998, Kindle location
9 Ibid., Kindle location 1391
10 Wikipedia under Euthyphro dilemma
11 This article was found at the www.heartmath.org website and it is a
reprint from AAPB/Biofeedback Magazine, Winter 2001 page 13-17
www.aapb.org
12 Rollin McCray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Psychophysiology of
Positive Emotions and Optimal Functioning, ibid page 1
13 Hans Küng and Karl-Joseph Kuschel, editors, A Global Ethic, The
Declaration of the Parliament of the World’s Religions, Continuum,
New York,1993, p 73
14 As is the custom in ‘Irfán publications, the Writings of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are italicized, the Writings of Shoghi
Effendi are not.
15 Ken Wilber; Sex, Ecology, Spirituality, The Spirit of Evolution,
Shambhala, Boston & London, 2000, Chapter: The Unpacking of God,
page 550
16 Wolfgang Klebel, Lights of Irfán, Book Seven, 2006, “Law-i-Hikmat,
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom, Towards a Progressive Bahá’í
Theology”, pp. 143-148
17 W.W. Norton & Company, New York London 1999
18 Alfred A. Knopf, New York 1999
19 Wolfgang Klebel, Lights of Irfán, Book Six, 2005, “True of Thyself: The
Mystical Writing’s of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s System of Integral
Philosophy” pp. 87-120
20 Ibid.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Part 1
Ian Kluge
1. Preface: What This Paper Is and Is Not
The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate that the
philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í Writings bears numerous
similarities to a group of philosophies generally referred to as
‘Neoplatonism’ which originated in the 3rd century CE with the
Enneads of Plotinus. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to
show that there are (a) foundational principles and ideas on
which the Writings and the Enneads agree and (b) significant
convergences between the Writings and Neoplatonic thought
even when there is not always detailed agreement. We hasten to
add that our focus is strictly on the ideas themselves and is not
concerned with the history of how the Enneads entered into
Muslim and Persian philosophy nor the vast extent of their
influence.1
It is, of course, not our intention to suggest that the
Writings are simply a man-made philosophy, for as Shoghi
Effendi tells us, Bahá’u’lláh “has not merely enunciated certain
universal principles, or propounded a particular philosophy,
however potent, sound and universal these may be.”2
Therefore, it must be clearly stated that this paper studies
the philosophical aspects of the Writings, just as other papers
or books study the social, ethical, psychological or economic
aspects. The Writings include all these aspects but transcend
them all since they are inexhaustible divine revelation.
Moreover, this paper follows Shoghi Effendi’s suggestion
about the importance of “correlating philosophy with Bahá’í

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
teachings.”3 Neoplatonism may be an ancient philosophy but it
is currently undergoing an extraordinary revival not just at the
scholastic but also at the popular level.4 Consequently, a study
of the Writings and Neoplatonism may prove to be timely for
engaging in dialogue with those who thinking is sympathetic to
Neoplatonism.
It may be objected that Neoplatonism and the Writings has
already been studied in Mark Foster’s “Neo-Platonism:
Framework
for
a
Bahá’í
Ontology,”
Nima
Hazini’s
“Neoplatonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Metaphysics” and to
some extent in Juan Cole’s “The Concept of the Manifestation
in the Bahá’í Writings.” Valuable as these contributions are,
they do not, as we shall see, go nearly far enough in exploring
the extent of the similarities between the Writings and the
Enneads. For the most part, they focus on the theme of
emanation which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions in Some Answered
Questions5 as well in The Promulgation of Universal Peace.6
However, as we shall see, the similarities go far beyond the
subject of emanations.
It is natural to wonder what benefits can be derived from
“correlating philosophy with the Bahá’í teachings.”7 The first,
and most obvious is that doing so builds bridges to other
schools of philosophy and to religions that have strong
philosophical traditions. Christianity, Buddhism, Islam,
Judaism and Hinduism are examples of such faiths. The better
our philosophical understanding of the Bahá’í Faith, the better
is our ability to engage in serious, in-depth dialogue on
philosophical-theological subjects with these religions. Second,
and more specifically, elucidating such correlations encourages
bridge building to those religions and philosophies which, like
Christianity were heavily influenced by Neoplatonism through
the work of Origen, Augustine and Thomas Aquinas among
others. Third, understanding the philosophic aspects of the
Writings also facilitates apologetics because a philosophic
understanding often helps in constructing strong explications
for what the Writings say. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá offers
several proofs of God, one of them being the First Mover
argument which requires the rejection of an actual infinite
regress as “absurd.”8 A philosophic understanding of the
problems inherent in the concept of an actual infinite regress

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
helps us explain why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says this concept is
untenable.
2. Ontology
Broadly put, ontology studies the nature of reality, i.e. the
nature, constitution and structure of reality as a whole. It
concerns such questions as what is real; what are the kinds or
categories of things (e.g. sensible realities, intelligible realities);
what attributes must all existing things have; and the
assumptions about reality underlying various philosophies,
world-views and even the sciences.9 Ontology differs from the
sciences insofar as the sciences focus on one special aspect of
physical reality such as living organisms or stars, whereas
ontology is concerned with the universal framework or context
in which all specific beings are found. Thus, ontology deals
with the broadest and most fundamental aspects of reality and
for this reason, understanding any system of thought requires
insight into its explicit or implicit ontological beliefs.
3. The One and Its Essential Attributes
In the philosophy of Plotinus, the foundational concept is
that of the One, or, as it is often called, the Good, which is the
source and sustainer of all that exists. For the Bahá’í Writings,
the One or the Good, is, of course, known as God, Who is “the
Creator of all,”10 from Whom “all creation sprang into
existence”11 and Who is “the Sustainer”12 of the being of all
things.
The One or God is fundamental to Neoplatonic and Bahá’í
thought because most if not all subsequent ideas and teachings
are directly and/or indirectly related to the existence and
nature of the Divine.
One of the most important similar foundational premises
concerns the relationship of God or the One — we shall use these
terms interchangeably — to its essential attributes. It is
important to note that the One or ‘the Good’ as Plotinus calls
it does not have ‘goodness’ as an attribute but rather is
goodness itself. If the One possessed goodness as an attribute,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
it would already be divided into two — itself and the attribute
it possesses13 — and would no longer be an absolute unity. Some
Answered Questions makes the same point about God’s unity
with His attributes:
the essential names and attributes of God are identical
with His Essence, and His Essence is above all
comprehension. If the attributes are not identical with
the Essence, there must also be a multiplicity of
preexistences, and differences between the attributes
and the Essence must also exist; and as Preexistence is
necessary, therefore, the sequence of preexistences
would become infinite. This is an evident error.14
God’s unity would be compromised by if there were a
difference between His essential attributes and His Essence,
and, of course God would be dependent on these attributes
which are other than Himself, i.e. these attributes would be
“preexistences” just as God is the “Preexistent”15 and the
attributes must exist with Him. There must also be an infinite
number of such attributes since God is without limits.
However, there would have to be an infinite sequence of
“preexistences”, i.e. pre-existing attributes between God-in-
Himself and His own attributes. Not only does such a division
make God multiple, but it is also impossible because according
to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, there can be no actual infinite regress.16 (A
theoretical infinite regress of abstract numbers is possible, but
the number of actual things is always some definite number).
Thus, in the Writings, God, like the One is an absolute unity.
Plotinus also tells us that the One is one with its activity17 and
its own will.18 Although the Bahá’í Writings contain no explicit
statement on these points, they are logically implied by the
teaching of the absolute unity and simplicity of God and the
statement that God is identical with His “essential names and
attributes.”
As noted above, if God were not one with His essential
attributes, i.e. if His essential attributes were separate from
Him, then He would be dependent on them for His nature to be
what it is. This is not feasible. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out,
“God is absolutely independent;”19 Bahá’u’lláh states that the
existence of all things is

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
contingent and not an absolute existence, inasmuch as
the former is preceded by a cause, whilst the latter is
independent thereof. Absolute existence is strictly
confined to God ...20
The reason God cannot be dependent on anything else is that
He is the reason why all other things exist, He is the cause of
their being, and therefore, He cannot depend on them. In other
words, God, or the One has ontological priority. If He were
dependent on anything, this priority would be lost. Plotinus
sates, “There must be something simple that is before all things,
and must be other than all the things which derive from it.”21 If
the One is first, it cannot be dependent on anything.
Another way of saying that the One is absolutely
independent is say it is self-sufficient:
This self-sufficiency is the essence of its [the One’s]
unity. Something there must be Supremely adequate,
autonomous, all-transcending, most utterly without
need ... Any manifold [phenomena], anything beneath
the Unity is dependent.22
Plotinus refers to the unity of the One because the One’s
condition of absolute unity requires it to be completely
independent of anything else; if it were not, its unity would be
a ‘hostage’ to other things, and, therefore, not absolute.
Bahá’u’lláh states categorically that “God is Self-Sufficient,
above any need of His creatures,”23 an idea that is re-enforced
by also referring to God as “Self-subsistent.”24 In other words,
God’s existence is completely independent of anything else. The
One is absolutely self-sufficient, having no need of anything
else and exists, so to speak, in and through itself.25 Moreover,
God, or the One, is His own good i.e. goodness Itself and has
no higher good to which to aspire: He is “self-related and self-
tending,”26 i.e. tending toward Himself which is, in effect, an
affirmation of self-unity. This accords with the Writings’
reference to “the Oneness and unity of God.”27 This in turn
leads us to be aware of the simplicity, i.e. non-composite
nature of God, i.e. the simplicity of God which is one of the
reasons God is eternal, not subject to decay: “compositions are
destructible”28 while simple things like God or the One or the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
rational soul are not. By definition they have no parts into
which they can decay.
The fact that the One is also beyond being29 is another way
of pointing to its unity and self-sufficiency. The One cannot
be identified with ‘being’ because the One is the necessary pre-
condition for all ‘being,’30 which requires a dyad of matter and
form and the resulting multiplicity. Such multiplicity is
incompatible with the One. ‘Being’ is what the One bestows
upon its emanations; it is what humans experience but is not
appropriate to the One. “It is precisely because there is nothing
within the One that all things are from it; in order that Being
may be brought about, the source must be no Being but Being’s
generator.”31 ‘Being’ as we shall see later is established by the
Nous which is the first hypostasis to emanate from the One.
4. The Uniqueness of the One
This unity of God makes God ontologically unique, since all
things besides God are composites. This is especially evident in
material creation in which all things are composites of atoms.32
Indeed, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
all things are composites of four causes: the existence
of everything depends upon four causes — the efficient
cause, the matter, the form and the final cause ...
Therefore, this chair is essentially phenomenal, for It is
preceded by a cause, and Its existence depends upon
causes.33
This analysis cannot possibly apply to God or the One, Who
has no causes at all; He is not the result of any process of any
kind. More specifically, He has no efficient or final cause
bringing Him into being for otherwise He would not be the
“Preexistent” but secondary to His cause. Plotinus says that
the One is its own cause34 which, in effect, is to say, the One
has no cause at all since a literal interpretation would mean
that the One is divided into cause and effect — which violates
its unity. Such a claim also violates logic for to bring itself
into existence the One would have to exist before it exists!

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Because it has no pre-existing cause, the One exists
necessarily, i.e. is a being Who cannot not exist. Unlike
phenomenal or contingent beings, God or “Essential pre-
existence [God] is an existence which is not preceded by a
cause,”35 which is to say that God is not a contingent but a
necessary being. The same idea is found in Plotinus’ statement
that “There must be something simple before all things, and this
must be other than all the things which come after it...”36
Because the One’s existence is not dependent on a preceding
cause, its existence is not a mere possibility but a necessity. To
argue that God may simply be a ‘potential’ or ‘possible’ is, in
effect, to argue that a cause precedes the One to bring it into
being which both the Writings and the Enneads reject.
God is also not limited by form and matter. God is not
matter because if He were, He would be divided (and
composite) as matter is, and He is not form because form by
definition requires exclusion or limitation37 to be something
identifiable, definite and definable. That clashes with His
unlimited nature. As Plotinus says, “The Unity is without
shape, even shape intellectual.”38 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that “God
is unlimited,”39 in any way, which implicitly contains the idea
that God is not limited by ‘form.’ If God were material (a stoic
concept rejected by Plotinus) He would also be subject to the
limitations of time and space and this is impossible for the
being whose existence is the necessary pre-condition for they
very existence of space and time.
Another way in which God’s unity makes Him unique is
that, in the words of Plotinus, “The First remains intact even
when other entities spring from it.”40 As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says of
God, “The Real Speaker, the Essence of Unity, has always been
in one condition, which neither changes nor alters, has neither
transformation nor vicissitude.”41 In other words, creation
neither diminishes nor changes the Creator and is, therefore,
eternal — which lays the ontological foundation for the belief
that there has always been a creation of one kind or another:
“The Creator always had a creation; the rays have always shone
and gleamed from the reality of the sun, for without the rays
the sun would be opaque darkness.”42 Furthermore, divine unity
lays the foundations for the doctrine of emanation, which, as
we shall see, both Plotinus and the Writings share. God or the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
One cannot be diminished by creation since that would
compromise His unity by being ‘dissoluble’ into separable
parts, a method of creation which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to as
“manifestation.” Such diminishment would also undermine the
simplicity of the One which would scatter into parts. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá clearly contrasts ‘manifestation’ with “emanation.”43 In
the latter, the creator and the created are related like “action
from the actor, [or] the writing from the writer,”44 which is to
say the writing is not a separable aspect of the writer. We shall
discuss this in more detail later.
5. The Question of Creation
The unity of the One and the question of the One’s
diminishment in creation inevitably raises the issue of how the
One can create without undergoing change itself. Any
alteration in God introduces the idea of multiplicity — and
that is not acceptable. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that “Changes and
transformations are not applicable to that eternal reality
[God]. Transformation from condition to condition is the
attribute of contingent realities.”45 According to Plotinus, the
One does not change.46 That being the case, how can we explain
the undiminished, i.e. unchanged condition of God? Plotinus’
answer is that he distinguishes between (a) the act of a thing
and (b) the act from a thing. As noted Plotinus scholar John
Deck says,
There is heat of fire which is the same as the fire itself,
and a heat that derives from fire. When the fire, by
remaining just what It is, exercises the heat within
Itself which is the Same as Itself, then the heat ‘towards
the external’ ... has already necessarily come to be.47
In other words, the fire itself is unchanged even though other
things around it are heated. More technically, the One
“exercises its own co-subsistent act which is itself.”48 In short,
the act of the thing is the thing itself and the act from the thing
is towards something else. The first refers to the One’s unity,
the latter to the One’s creativity. The act emanating from the
One is distinct from the act of being the One, and therefore,
emanation does not change the One.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
In keeping with this theme, we might also say that the One
acts merely by being, by its presence in the same way that a
magnet creates a magnetic field around itself simply by its
presence. The field does not diminish the magnet in any way
and, like creation, is a dependent correlate of the magnet.
Thus, the One’s existence is identical to its activity, a fact
which yet again emphasises the absolute unity of the One.
Yet another consequence of God’s unity and simplicity is
that He has no external relations. Bahá’u’lláh says that
there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind the one
true God with His creation, and no resemblance
whatever can exist between the transient and the
Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute ...49
Plotinus says the One is “unrelated to all”50 and adds, “We
cannot think of the First as moving towards any other; He
holds his own manner of being before any other was; even Being
we withhold and therefore all relation to beings.”51 “[M]oving
towards another” refers to entering relations which is made
explicit in the second half of the quote. The reason the One or
God has no external relations is that such relations would limit
God’s independence since the relation would ‘tie’ Him to
something lesser than Himself; this would also compromise His
freedom and ontological pre-eminence. Finally, it would also
limit God, i.e. deny His essential ontological nature such as
self-sufficiency: “This self-sufficing is the essence of its unity.
Something there must be supremely adequate, autonomous, all-
transcending, most utterly without need.”52 God, or the One, is
radically transcendent.
This lack of external relations is an important matter
because it is the basis not only for Plotinus’ philosophy of
emanationism and intermediary hypostases of the One, but is
also the basis for the Bahá’í teaching that an intermediary or
Manifestation is necessary:
since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind
the one true God with His creation, and no
resemblance whatever can exist between the transient
and the Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute, He
hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
and stainless Soul be made manifest in the kingdoms of
earth and heaven.53
In other words, the existence of the Manifestation (or Plotinus’
Nous and Soul) are not arbitrary, external impositions on
philosophy and theology but are inner logical necessities
mandated by the nature of God. For Bahá’ís it is the first
indication that the Manifestation is more than a human being
divinely elected and is, instead, a Being ontologically different
from humanity in essential respects.
Another aspect of the One’s radical transcendence is its
complete freedom from external constraint. Plotinus tells us
that the One (sometimes called the First) is only “determined by
its uniqueness and not in any sense of being under compulsion;
compulsion did not co-exist with the Supreme but has place
only among secondaries...”54 The “secondaries” are those things
that God created, and, therefore, come after Him ontologically
speaking. However, according to Plotinus and the Writings,
the “secondaries” have no power over God. In Bahá’í terms, He
is the “the One, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the
Unconstrained.”55 From God’s absolute freedom, we may also
deduce His omnipresence, since to be truly “All-Powerful” He
must be present everywhere, i.e. unconstrained by limits of
time and space. According to Plotinus, the One is “everywhere
yet nowhere.”56 God, or the One is, of course, “nowhere”
because He is unlike ordinary things which are definitely
located in time and space. He is everywhere insofar as He is the
necessary pre-condition for the existence of time and space and
thus ‘is’ wherever time and space are found. It should be noted
that being a necessary pre-condition for time and space means
that the One cannot be identical to them.
6. God Contains All
One of the key features of God or The One is that God
‘contains’ everything. This, of course, explains why He ‘is
everywhere.’ Plotinus writes,
Everything brought into being under some principle
not itself is contained either within its maker or, if
there is an intermediate, within that; having a prior

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
essential to its being it needs that prior always,
otherwise it would not be contained at all.57
In other words, a being is ‘in’ some other entity if it depends
on that entity for its existence. It is virtually within its source,
i.e. is present in its source qua the (emanative) action of that
source just as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that the action is virtually
present within the speaker, or the writing within the writer.58
The idea of containment is also present in the Bahá’í Writings.
Bahá’u’lláh writes, “Likewise hath the eternal King spoken: “No
thing have I perceived, except that I perceived God within it,
God before it, or God after it.”59 This idea in turn serves to
provide ontological foundations for God’s omnipresence, for
if God is before, after and in everything, then He is obviously
present everywhere, i.e. omnipresent as we have noted
previously.
At this point a clarification is necessary. Saying that God
contains everything because of their dependence on Him does
not
introduce
multiplicity
into
God
Himself.
This
‘containment’ is simply the result of God’s ontological
position as the apex, i.e. the most inclusive form of being and
the source and foundation of all other beings. Moreover, He is
the necessary and sufficient condition of their existence and in
this sense ‘contains’ them simply by virtue of His being. We
might also say that God contains through His powers or names
such as “the Creator.” Bahá’u’lláh says, “His name, the Creator,
presupposeth a creation, even as His title, the Lord of Men,
must involve the existence of a servant.”60 The virtual
containment of things ‘within’ God or His names is the
‘presupposition’ of their existence in the name of ‘Creator.’
However, because the One contains all things does not mean
that Plotinus or the Writings advocate some form of
pantheism which identifies God and His creation. Plotinus
makes it clear that the One transcends all and though it
contains all things it is not any of these things: “All in that
region [of creation] is the One and not the One — nothing else
because deriving thence, yet not that because the One is giving
it forth is not merged into it.”61 Things ‘are’ the One because
they are the signs of its creative power, but they are not the
One because the One cannot be limited by any of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
conditions to which created things are subject. This is precisely
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s point:
the superior reality does not descend nor abase itself to
inferior states; then how could it be that the Universal
Reality of God, which is freed from all descriptions
and qualifications, notwithstanding its absolute
sanctity and purity, should resolve itself into the forms
of the realities of the creatures, which are the source of
imperfections? This is a pure imagination which one
cannot conceive.62
Supporting pantheism would, in effect, be an admission that
God is not a simple, i.e. non-composite unity but rather is
dispersed throughout creation — a belief that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
associates with “manifestation.”63 From this doctrine we can
also deduce why the Writings reject the Christian concept of
the incarnation: God cannot diminish Himself and descend
into a phenomenal being. It violates His very nature to do so.
The One is omnipresent not only as an efficient cause
bringing all things into being, it is also present as their final
cause. As Plotinus says,
The Good [the One] is that on which all else depends,
towards which all Existences aspire as to their source
and their need, while Itself is without need, sufficient
to Itself, aspiring to no other, the measure and Term of
all ...64
The One, God, is both the efficient and final cause of all
existence, i.e. the source and ground of their being as well as
the goal for which they strive, each in a manner appropriate to
their nature.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The Creator of all is One God. From this
same God all creation sprang into existence, and He is the one
goal, towards which everything in nature yearns,”65 Bahá’u’lláh
describes God as the “Desire of all created things.”66 By being
the ‘Great Attractor’ and drawing all things towards Him,
God, the One is the final cause which will complete their being
for in the process of evolving towards God, they will attain
their own highest perfection. The precise nature of this
perfection depends on the nature of the evolving being: for an

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
atom it may be motion, for an animal the life of instinct, for a
human being, a life dedicated to the spirit.
The belief that God is the final cause of all things also
indicates that creation, the universe, is teleological in its
deepest nature, i.e. goal oriented. This, in turn, suggests that
the development of nature is not purely a matter of chance, i.e.
“is not a fortuitous composition and arrangement.”67
Consequently, any cosmological explanations that ignore
teleology must be intrinsically incomplete, a viewpoint that
obviously has enormous implications for the Bahá’í teachings
about the harmony of science and religion. Science rejects
teleological explanations and this position will be difficult to
reconcile with the teleological views of the Writings.
7. The Knowledge of the One
One of Plotinus’ most surprising statements is that the One
does not have knowledge — at least not knowledge in the human
sense which depends on a division between subject and object.
If the One possess this kind of knowledge, then knowledge and
the One are distinct, and this in turn implies a division in the
One. Thus, it cannot have objects of knowledge.
The One, as transcending Intellect [Nous, the “First
Mind”] transcends knowing; above All need, it is above
the need of knowing which pertains solely to the
Secondary Nature [Nous] ... The Transcendent, thus,
neither knows itself nor is known in itself.68
If God or the One had objects of thought, He would no longer
be independent since He would need these objects in order to
know them. Knowledge, after all, requires a subject and an
object.
This would also compromise the unity of God, since the act
of thinking about things creates a division within the thinker,
i.e. between the thinker himself and the object of thought.
Insofar as God does not have knowledge or think as we do, God
is beyond knowledge and thought, i.e. He includes and
transcends them. Oddly enough, as Plotinus points out, this
means that God does not know Himself as an object of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
knowledge — although of course He may know Himself in ways
that transcend the human mode of knowledge. The Good does
not need self-consciousness.69
Furthermore, God, the One, is not limited by ‘intellection’,
i.e.
rational
discursive
thought
conditioned
by
the
subject/object division and the matter/form distinction70
which characterizes created beings. As Plotinus says,
“intellection and the Intellectual-Principle [Nous] must be
characteristics of beings coming later.”71 Elsewhere Plotinus
says,
In sum this intellection of the Good is impossible: I do
not mean that it is impossible to have intellection of
the Good — we may admit that possibility — but there
can be no intellection by the Good itself, for this
would be to include the inferior with the good...
Anyone making the Good at once Thinker and Thought
identifies it with Being ...72
According to Plotinus, “intellection seems to have been given
as an aid to the diviner but weaker beings, an eye to the
blind.”73 Humans are among these “diviner” beings who possess
intellection.
The Bahá’í Writings agree with Plotinus’ basic teachings on
this issue of the absolutely unique nature of God’s knowledge.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
The Prophets say, The Knowledge of God has no need
of the existence of beings, but the knowledge of the
creature needs the existence of things known; if the
Knowledge of God had need of any other thing, then it
would be the knowledge of the creature, and not that of
God. For the Preexistent is different from the
phenomenal, and the phenomenal is opposed to the
Preexistent; that which we attribute to the creature —
that is, the necessities of the contingent beings — we
deny for God.... The phenomenal knowledge has need of
things
known;
the
Preexistent
Knowledge
is
independent of their existence.74
In other words, God does not require objects of knowledge
to know. While such knowing is inconceivable to human

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
beings, the necessity of this attribute can be logically deduced
from God’s unity and simplicity. The other characteristics of
God’s knowing as outlined by Plotinus — the lack of the
subject/object and matter/form division, the absence of self-
consciousness as we experience it and the lack of ration
discursive intellection — all can be logically deduced from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s foregoing statement. To the best of my
knowledge, the Writings do not contain explicit statements on
these issues, but they are implicitly present in other teachings
about God not requiring an object of knowledge.
This difference between human and divine knowledge brings
us to a fundamental principle of ontology and epistemology in
the Enneads and the Writings. In both of them, ontology and
epistemology, i.e. the nature of reality and our position in it
and what we can or cannot know are closely inter-related.
What we are able to know depends on our ontological degree or
condition. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
Difference of condition is an obstacle to knowledge;
the inferior degree cannot comprehend the superior
degree. How then can the phenomenal reality
comprehend the Preexistent Reality? Knowing God,
therefore, means the comprehension and the knowledge
of His attributes, and not of His Reality.75
In other words, beings which stand lower in the hierarchy of
being cannot comprehend or understand the nature of those
beings above them. “The mineral cannot imagine the growing
power of the plant. The tree cannot understand the power of
movement in the animal,”76 says ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and adds, “All
superior kingdoms are incomprehensible to the inferior; how
therefore could It be possible that the creature, man, should
understand the almighty Creator of all?”77
Humankind cannot adequately understand God because
“That which contains is superior to that which is contained.”78
We have already noted that ‘contained’ in this context means
‘dependent on.’ By being ‘dependent on’ the One, all things are
inferior or secondary to it both in the order of being
(ontology) and in the order of logic, i.e. the One is the logical
pre-condition for the others. Because God occupies the
supreme ontological position, “the essential knowledge of God

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
surrounds, in the same way, the realities of things.”79 That is
why God has perfect understanding of them. We, however,
cannot form an adequate or complete conception of the One
because it is not limited by any of the conditions of existence
that limit us. We hasten to add that this does not necessarily
mean
that
all
our
conceptions
are
false.
Logically,
incompleteness and falsity are not the same things since the
latter refers to a defect in the content of a statement while the
former does not.
It should be noted that in the Bahá’í Writings, the use of the
word “comprehend” combines the meanings of ‘contain’ and
‘understand,’ i.e. combines the ontological and epistemological
meanings of the word. For example, “Minds are powerless to
comprehend God”80 exhibits both meanings: minds cannot
contain God, i.e. be independent of God, and therefore, they
cannot understand Him more than their ontological position
allows. “For the phenomenal reality can comprehend the
Preexistent attributes only to the extent of the human
capacity.”81 In a statement that explicitly shows both meanings
simultaneously, He says,
For comprehension is the result of encompassing —
embracing must be, so that comprehension may be —
and the Essence of Unity surrounds all and is not
surrounded.82
Thus, we can see how in the Writings, ontology and
epistemology are closely correlated and cannot be understood
apart from each other. The same is true in the Enneads: the One
which is the pre-condition for all existence and which
transcends all particular existences cannot be adequately
known by what it emanates.
8. Knowledge About God
This, of course, raises a serious issue: how can we learn
about the One or God? The idea that God is completely
unknowable in anyway whatsoever is untenable for, among
other reasons, such a statement even refutes itself. To say that
God is unknowable is already to say that we know at least one

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
thing about Him. The Writings, however, tell us more precisely
what such phrases as ‘knowing God’ actually mean.
Knowing God, therefore, means the comprehension
and the knowledge of His attributes, and not of His
Reality. This knowledge of the attributes is also
proportioned to the capacity and power of man; it is
not absolute. Philosophy consists in comprehending
the reality of things as they exist, according to the
capacity and the power of man.83
In other words, we know as much as human capacity allows
about God’s attributes or names but not about God-in-
Himself. Moreover we do not learn directly about God but
rather through the reliable instruction of the Manifestation.
Plotinus agrees that the One-in-itself is unknowable:
Certainly the Absolute is none of the things of which it
is the source — its nature is that nothing can be
affirmed of it — not existence, not essence, not life —
since it is that which transcends all these.84
Elsewhere he says, “nothing can be affirmed of it [the One];”85
the One is ineffable, it cannot be written or spoken.86
We do not, it is true grasp it by knowledge, but that
does not mean that we are utterly void of it ; we hold it
not so as to state it, but so as to be able to speak about
it. And we can and do state what it is not, while we are
silent as to what it is: we are, in fact, speaking of it in
light of its sequels ...87
Thus, we can deny imperfections to the One, and we can talk
‘about’ it in our limited human terms derived from our
experience from created things, i.e. “its sequels.” As Dominic
O’Meara says,
When we speak ‘about’ the One, saying that it is the
cause, we are in fact speaking about ourselves, saying
that we are casually dependent and expressing what we
experience in this condition of dependence ... In this
way the One remains ineffable in itself, even though we
speak about it.88

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
We can only speak of the One in our terms, not its terms.
For Their part, the Bahá’í Writings also agree that God, the
One, is unknowable in Himself and knowable only in our
human terms. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that “it is certain that the
Divine Reality is unknown with regard to its essence and is
known with regard to its attributes.”89 In other words,
knowledge about (not of) God is available, but we must
understand the term ‘knowledge’ correctly:
Nevertheless, we speak of the names and attributes of
the Divine Reality, and we praise Him by attributing
to Him sight, hearing, power, life and knowledge. We
affirm these names and attributes, not to prove the
perfections of God, but to deny that He is capable of
imperfections ... It is not that we can comprehend His
knowledge, His sight, His power and life, for it is
beyond our comprehension; for the essential names and
attributes of God are identical with His Essence, and
His Essence is above all comprehension.90
Here, too, we observe that when we speak of God — as we
cannot avoid doing — then our speech must be understood in a
certain way, as a denial of imperfection rather than as an
attribution of perfections. This is precisely what Plotinus says:
“we can and do state what it is not, while we are silent as to
what it is.”91 The one thing God or the One cannot be is
imperfect. For Bahá’ís, however, reliable knowledge of God
comes from the Manifestation of the age.
The knowledge of the Reality of the Divinity is impossible
and unattainable, but the knowledge of the Manifestations of
God is the knowledge of God, for the bounties, splendors and
divine attributes are apparent in Them. Therefore, if man
attains to the knowledge of the Manifestations of God, he will
attain to the knowledge of God; and if he be neglectful of the
knowledge of the Holy Manifestations, he will be bereft of the
knowledge of God.92
Elsewhere ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
with reference to this plane of existence, every
statement and elucidation is defective, all praise and all
description are unworthy, every conception is vain,

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
and every meditation is futile. But for this Essence of
the essences, this Truth of truths, this Mystery of
mysteries, there are reflections, auroras, appearances
and resplendencies in the world of existence. The
dawning-place of these splendors, the place of these
reflections, and the appearance of these manifestations
are the Holy Dawning-places, the Universal Realities
and the Divine Beings, Who are the true mirrors of the
sanctified Essence of God. All the perfections, the
bounties, the splendors which come from God are
visible and evident in the Reality of the Holy
Manifestations.93
This means that for Bahá’ís, there is a reliable source of
knowledge appropriately adapted to human capacity and that
all discourse about God is not necessarily futile if guided by
the Manifestations. Naturally, humans need to undergo
spiritual exercises to prepare themselves to accept this
knowledge (all receive this knowledge but not all choose to
accept it) of God, but the fact remains it is available for those
who choose to accept it. Nonetheless, in the Bahá’í view, our
personal efforts while necessary are not sufficient to attain
this knowledge: “Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted
through their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible
for the mirror to free itself from its dross.”94
Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of
longing desire, of passionate devotion, of fervid love,
of rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled within the seeker's
heart, and the breeze of His loving-kindness is wafted
upon his soul, will the darkness of error be dispelled,
the mists of doubts and misgivings be dissipated, and
the lights of knowledge and certitude envelop his being.
At that hour will the Mystic Herald, bearing the joyful
tidings of the Spirit, shine forth from the City of God
resplendent as the morn, and, through the trumpet-
blast of knowledge, will awaken the heart, the soul, and
the spirit from the slumber of heedlessness.95
Making an effort on our own is the necessary pre-condition
for the completion of the quest for knowledge by the holy spirit
or ‘Mystic Herald.” With Plotinus, however, there is no

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
counterpart to the holy spirit or the “Mystic Herald” to fully
actualize our quest for knowledge of the One. Nor is there in
the Enneads any guarantor of the knowledge we receive by our
own efforts, whereas in the case of the Writings, there is. In the
Enneads, we are completely left to our own spiritual efforts in
the quest for knowledge of the One.
9. The One and Emanation
Having found numerous and far-reaching agreements
between Plotinus’ and the Bahá’í Writings’ concept of God or
the One, we shall now turn our attention to the issue of how
the One creates, i.e. to the issue of emanation. It should be
noted that the issue some controversy. Dominic O’Meara for
example, prefers the word “derivation”96 since ‘emanation’ has
too many problematical connotations. Lloyd P Gerson
challenges the applicability of the very concept of ‘emanation’
as traditionally understood in studying Plotinus.97 However,
this paper shall retain the traditional term ‘emanation’ not only
because it is used in the Bahá’í Writings but also because it is
the term most commonly used terms in discussions of
Neoplatonism.
Perhaps the best way to understand the concept of
‘emanation’ is to examine one of the most frequently used
images of emanation both in Plotinus and in the Writings.
Speaking of the One in relationship to its creations, Plotinus
says,
The only reasonable explanation of [creative] act
flowing from it lies in the analogy of light from the
sun. The entire intellectual order [a lower level of
creation] may be figured as a kind of light with the One
in repose at its summit as its King: but this
manifestation is not cast out from it [the sun] ... but
the One shines eternally, resting upon the Intellectual
Realm [Nous]; this [Intellectual Realm] not identical
with its source ...98
We observe important aspects of emanationism in this
selection: creation as a ‘light’ or efflux from the sun; the
unchanged and unchanging sun as the source of the light; the

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
source lasts eternally; the distinction between the light and the
sun. (Readers must, of course, bear in mind that it was
generally believed until relatively recent times that the sun was
unchanged and undiminished by the process of giving light.)
Noteworthy, too, is the ontological distinction between the
Creator, “source” and what is created (the Nous).
Elsewhere, Plotinus writes that the relationship between the
One and its creation
must be a circumradiation — produced from the
Supreme but from the Supreme unaltering — and may
be compared to the brilliant light encircling the sun
and ceaselessly generated from that unchanging
substance.99
Here, too, we observe the sun image with its emphasis on the
unchanging, and, by implication, undiminished being of the
sun as well as the surrounding. The fact that the sun radiates
“ceaselessly” also suggests another Neoplatonic and Bahá’í
teaching, viz. the eternity of the created world, i.e. that there
has always been a creation.
The Bahá’í Writings also compare God to the sun and
creation to the ‘circumradiant’ light.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us that “Creation is like the sunlight;
God is the sun. This light comes forth from the sun; that does
not mean that the sun has become the light. The light emanates
from the sun.”100 Here, too, we observe the ontological
distinction between the sun (God) and the light (creation) and
that sun itself is not dispersed into the light. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
describes such a dispersal as ‘manifestation’ which He clearly
distinguishes from emanation:
But the appearance through manifestation is the
manifestation of the branches, leaves, blossoms and
fruit from the seed; for the seed in its own essence
becomes branches and fruits, and its reality enters into
the branches, the leaves and fruits. This appearance
through manifestation would be for God, the Most
High, simple imperfection; and this is quite impossible,
for the implication would be that the Absolute
Preexistent is qualified with phenomenal attributes.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
But if this were so, pure independence would become
mere poverty, and true existence would become
nonexistence, and this is impossible.101
God, the sun, does not manifest Himself because to do so
would not only disperse God into phenomenal parts and,
thereby, demote Him to the level of His creations, but also
would diminish God Himself. The concept of emanation is
intended precisely to avoid such suggestions. The importance
of this point cannot be overstressed because it is the very fact
of non-dispersal that distinguishes emanationism from all
forms of pantheism. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá categorically rejects
pantheism when He says, “[T]he sun does not descend and does
not abase itself,”102 a position with which Plotinus agrees.
It should be mentioned in passing that although Plotinus
uses other images to illustrate the nature of the One and its
emanations, the underlying implications are always those cited
above. “Imagine a spring that has no source outside itself; it
gives itself to all the rivers, yet is never exhausted by what they
take, but remains always integrally as it was,”103 he says, and
then adds,
think of the Life coursing throughout some mighty tree
while yet it is the stationary Principle of the whole, in
no sense scattered over all that extent but, as it were,
vested in the root: it is the giver of the entire and
manifold life of the tree, but remains unmoved itself,
not manifold but the Principle of that manifold life.
And this surprises no one: though it is in fact
astonishing how all that varied vitality springs from
the unvarying, and how that very manifoldness
[multiplicity]
could
not
be
unless
before
the
multiplicity there were something all singleness; for, the
Principle is not broken into parts to make the total; on
the contrary, such partition would destroy both;
nothing would come into being if its cause, thus
broken up, changed character.104
This passage also shows the Plotinian principle that
multiplicity must be preceded by oneness, something
emphasised when he writes, “Standing before all things, there
must exist a Simplex [the One] differing from all its sequel, self-

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
gathered not interblended with the forms that rise from it.”105
Dominic
O’Meara
calls
this
the
“principle
of
Prior
Simplicity.”106 According to him, this idea is common both to
Neoplatonism and science, which both seek to explain the
present state of the universe by reference to a simpler state, i.e.
deriving the complex from the simple, or, in the terms of
ancient philosophy, the many from the one. “Something all
singleness” must precede the creation of many. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
confirms the same principle in various applications when He
states,
it is necessary, therefore, that we should know what
each of the important existences was in the beginning
— for there is no doubt that in the beginning the origin
was one: the origin of all numbers is one and not two.
Then it is evident that in the beginning matter was one,
and that one matter appeared in different aspects in
each element ... This composition and arrangement,
through the wisdom of God and His preexistent might,
were produced from one natural organization ...107
Applied to ontology or metaphysics, the “principle of Prior
Simplicity,” inevitably leads to postulating a single source for
the entire universe, a concept that in physics may be termed a
‘singularity’ while in ontology the same ideas is expressed as
‘the One’ or ‘God.’ The significance of this principle is that it
highlights an underlying similarity between science both in
theory and practice and the philosophy inherent in Plotinus
and the Bahá’í Writings.
10. Why Emanation?
If the One exists, why does it create? Trouble-free as it might
appear, this question, as we shall see, can lead to some difficult
considerations about necessity and free will. According to
Plotinus, the One “is perfect and, in our metaphor has
overflowed, and its exuberance has produced the new.”108 In
Enneads V, 4, Plotinus explicates the universal principle that
underlies the concept of emanation:
If The First is perfect, utterly perfect above all, and is
the beginning of all power, it must be the most

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
powerful of all that is, and all other powers must act in
some partial imitation of it. Now other beings, coming
to perfection, are observed to generate; they are unable
to remain self-closed; they produce: and this is true not
merely of beings endowed with will, but of growing
things where there is no will; even lifeless objects impart
something of themselves, as far as they may; fire warms
... How then could the most perfect remain self-set- the
First Good, the Power towards all, how could it grudge
or be powerless to give of itself, and how at that would
it still be the Source?109
The principle that ‘perfection generates beyond itself’ is
modelled by the One and imitated by all other things, each in its
own degree.110 The One sets this example, and to do otherwise,
i.e. to be ‘grudging’ of its inexhaustible power would be less
than perfect by the standard the One itself has set for itself.
Such superabundant generosity is the only appropriate
attribute to its infinite nature.
The Bahá’í Writings have a similar explanation for the
principle underlying God’s creation. The most succinct
statement comes from Gleanings: “His name, the Creator,
presupposeth a creation, even as His title, the Lord of Men,
must involve the existence of a servant.”111 In a more detailed
explanation, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
the reality of Divinity is characterized by certain
names and attributes. Among these names are Creator,
Resuscitator, Provider, the All-Present, Almighty,
Omniscient and Giver. These names and attributes of
Divinity are eternal and not accidental. This is a very
subtle point which demands close attention. Their
existence is proved and necessitated by the appearance
of phenomena. For example, Creator presupposes
creation, Resuscitator implies resuscitation, Provider
necessitates provision; otherwise, these would be empty
and impossible names. Merciful evidences an object
upon which mercy is bestowed. If mercy were not
manifest, this attribute of God would not be realized
...Therefore,
the
divine
names
and
attributes

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
presuppose the existence of phenomena implied by
those names and attributes ...112
First, we should note that these attributes are “not accidental,”
they are essential, i.e. attributes identical with God’s
Essence.113 This is how God wills Himself to be. Second, the
name of “Provider” calls to mind Plotinus’ belief that the One
must be generous, not grudging; must have an abundance from
which to provide willingly. The same idea is implicit in the
names “Giver,” “All-Mighty,” and “Creator.” In other words,
the idea that God, the One, the “All-Possessing”114 creates out
of generosity and inherent wealth. Third, the passage indicates
that these creations are necessary because otherwise these
“attribute[s] of God would not be realized.” This leads to a
serious issue, namely, the freedom of God, or the One.
Plotinus asserts the One’s freedom, when he writes,
It [the One] is, therefore, in a sense determined —
determined, I mean by its uniqueness and not in any
sense being under compulsion; compulsion did not
coexist with the Supreme but has place only among the
secondaries ... . this uniqueness [of the One] is not
from outside.115
This means that freedom of will is established whenever we act
without pressure from external compulsions that force us to
do one thing or another. In the case of the One, which is free of
all external relations — as is God in the Bahá’í view as we recall
— there obviously cannot be any external compulsion acting on
the One. Thus, the actions of the One are entirely its own; if it
exercises will, it is pure self-will. The One’s generosity is free.
The Bahá’í Writings lead us to the identical conclusion. God is
the “All-Powerful,”116 which clearly tells that there is nothing
external to God which can exercise compulsion on Him. That
being the case, His actions are self-evidently free.
What about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that if there were no
recipients of mercy, God’s name of the Merciful “would not be
realized?”117
Does
this
not
suggest
compulsion,
i.e.
requirements being exercised on God insofar as there is a
standard that He must meet? To answer this, we must
distinguish between verbal and logical necessity. For example,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
saying that God must create beings for His mercy to be
revealed is an example of verbal necessity; the wording —
“must” — appears to suggest that God is being externally
compelled, but in actual fact, He is not so. God’s unique
nature and will have willed the situation to be such that the
revelation of His mercy includes the greatest number of beings.
Logically, He cannot be compelled by external forces and so,
any ‘compulsion’ must come from within Him — but that is the
very definition of freedom. The only constraints on the One or
God are ‘constraints’ of its own nature, which are not distinct
from it but rather, identical with it.
11. Emanation and the Emanative Order
The concept of emanations is key to any comparison
between the Writings and the Enneads. There is no doubt that
the Bahá’í Writings advocate emanation as the means of
creating and structuring reality. For this reason, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
in Chapter 53 of Some Answered Questions expends
considerable effort in explaining the difference between
emanation and manifestation. In manifestation
the seed in its own essence becomes branches and
fruits, and its reality enters into the branches, the
leaves
and
fruits.
This
appearance
through
manifestation would be for God, the Most High,
simple imperfection; and this is quite impossible, for
the implication would be that the Absolute Preexistent
is qualified with phenomenal attributes.118
The seed develops into the branches and leaves and is thus
ontologically one with them. In contrast, light emanates from
the sun; the sun is not changed or diminished and remains
ontologically distinct from the sun. Therefore, “Therefore, all
creatures emanate from God.”119
With this statement ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has already shown how
Bahá’í cosmology shares an emanationist foundation with the
Enneads. However, the similarities run further. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says,

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
all creatures emanate from God — that is to say, it is by
God that all things are realized, and by Him that all
beings have attained to existence. The first thing which
emanated from God is that universal reality, which the
ancient philosophers termed the “First Mind,” and
which the people of Bahá call the “First Will.” This
emanation, in that which concerns its action in the
world of God, is not limited by time or place; it is
without beginning or end — beginning and end in
relation to God are one ...
Though the “First Mind” is without beginning, it does
not become a sharer in the preexistence of God, for the
existence of the universal reality in relation to the
existence of God is nothingness, and it has not the
power to become an associate of God and like unto
Him in preexistence.120
Here we observe agreement with Plotinus’ statement that
Nous or “Mind” or “First Mind” is the first level of emanation
from the One, or God. The “philosophers” to whom ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá refers are in all likelihood the Neoplatonists, i.e. followers
of Plotinus or at least those influenced by Plotinus who have
adopted his emanationist schema. Further, we note that Nous
or “First Mind” is not constrained by time or space, just as it
is not in Plotinus, according to whom, time and space are part
of nature as an emanation of the Soul.121 In other words, Nous
is ontologically superior to time and space. For Plotinus, as for
the Writings, Nous has always existed but, unlike God, or the
One, it is not its own precondition for existence, i.e. does not
have “the preexistence of God.” Thus it remains ontologically
inferior to the One, because in both systems, it is derived from
the One and, therefore, dependent on it.
According to Plotinus, the order of emanations runs as
follows:
THE ONE
NOUS
SOUL — higher Soul (receptive)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
SOUL — lower Soul (active)
Contains NATURE
Briefly, the One emanates the Nous, which contemplates the
One and becomes an image of it. It is important to bear in
mind that in Plotinus, contemplation is itself a form of
creation/emanation and, therefore, the Nous emanates the Soul
which is itself an image of the Nous.122
Here is how Plotinus describes the emanation of the Nous,
sometimes
translated
as
‘Spirit,’123
the
Intellect,
“the
Intellectual Principle” or “the Divine Mind.”124
Seeking nothing, possessing nothing, lacking nothing,
the One is perfect and, in our metaphor, has
overflowed, and its exuberance has produced the new;
this product has turned again to its begetter and been
filled and has become its contemplator and so an
Intellectual-Principle.125
The first product of the One’s superabundance is the Nous or
Mind, which represents a new, secondary and lower level of
reality, insofar as the Nous depends on the One. Indeed, the
Nous is the beginning of Being, for as Plotinus says, “the
source [the One] must be no Being but Being’s generator ... [the
Nous] establishes Being.”126 In other words, the One, or God
Himself is above Being because He is the necessary (and
sufficient) pre-condition for Being itself, i.e. “Being’s
generator.” If He were not, then He would, in a significant
way, be of the same ontological kind as His creations and the
Nous. This negates the absolute uniqueness of the One or God
and is an impossible state of affairs for Plotinus and the
Writings.
Plotinus also mentions that like all existing things, the Nous
represents “in image the engendering archetype,”127 i.e. the Nous
reflects its archetype, the One. However, because “all that is
fully achieved engenders”128, i.e. ‘creates’ or emanates a
subsequent, ontologically lower level of being, the Nous reflects
the attributes of the One into the still lower, i.e. more
dependent levels of being that emanate from Nous itself. In the
Plotinian schema, this means that the Nous emanates the Soul

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
and with the Soul, we have nature. Of course the Nous can only
do this because it is turned or oriented towards the One since
the “offspring must seek and love the begetter.”129
This latter point is worth exploring: the Nous fulfills its own
being by turning towards the One, i.e. by reflecting the light of
the One like a perfect mirror. This theme of turning towards
the One runs through the Enneads and the Bahá’í Writings; in
the latter, for example, the Manifestations are described as
Primal Mirrors which reflect the light of unfading
glory, are but expressions of Him Who is the Invisible
of the Invisibles. By the revelation of these Gems of
Divine virtue all the names and attributes of God, such
as knowledge and power, sovereignty and dominion,
mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty, and grace, are made
manifest.130
The assertion that the “Primal Mirrors” are “expressions” of
God, recalls ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “The proceeding
through emanation is like the coming forth of the action from
the actor, of the writing from the writer.”131 The “action” and
the “writing” are expressions of the actor or writer; they come
from the actor or writer but are not the same. In short, they
emanate from their source. Thus, to say that the “Primal
Mirrors” are an “expression” of God is to say that They are
emanations but, of course, emanations with ontological
priority over lower levels of reality.
The dawning-place of these splendors, the place of these
reflections, and the appearance of these manifestations
are the Holy Dawning-places, the Universal Realities
and the Divine Beings, Who are the true mirrors of the
sanctified Essence of God.132
Elsewhere the Writings say,
These Tabernacles of holiness, these primal Mirrors
which reflect the light of unfading glory, are but
expressions of Him Who is the Invisible of the
Invisibles. By the revelation of these gems of divine
virtue all the names and attributes of God, such as
knowledge and power, sovereignty and dominion,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty and grace, are made
manifest.133
Unlike all other things which, in their own way and indirectly
by way of the Manifestation, also reflect God’s light, the
“Universal Realities” reflect God’s light or creative power
directly; that is why They are “the true mirrors of the sanctified
Essence of God.” The word “universal” also suggests that they
affect all of reality and not only the aspects of reality known to
us. The Writings also say, “In the Manifestation of God, the
perfectly polished mirror, appear the qualities of the Divine in a
form that man is capable of comprehending.”134 In other
words, the “Primal Mirrors,” the Manifestations, make the
“names and attributes of God” apparent or “manifest,” in a
form comprehensible to lower levels of creation. Here we
observe how the Manifestations fulfill the major function of
the Plotinian Nous.
Let us now turn our attention to the Plotinian Soul. The
Soul reflects the Nous but not in a straight forward way since
the Soul itself has two aspects. First, there is a higher or
“pure”135 aspect which reflects the Platonic Ideas, or, as we shall
see, the names of God; this is the Soul-in-itself which is
sometimes described as the “intelligible world.”136 Second, there
is also an active ‘lower aspect’ of the Soul which emanates
nature itself. As Plotinus says, “soul has a double efficacy, its
act within itself and its act from within outwards towards the
new production.”137 The act “within” itself is the unknowable
inner essence of the higher Soul and its act “from itself” is the
‘lower’ Soul which directs action outward.
To explain why Soul creates the natural world, Plotinus
asserts,
In the absence of body, soul could not have gone forth,
since there is no other place to which its nature would
allow it to descend. Since go forth it must, it will
generate a place for itself; at once, body also exists.138
The Soul sees the darkness beneath it — the light of God has
reached its emanative limit or lowest level of ontologically
possible being.139 Then the Soul “by seeing [contemplating]
brings to shape [form]”140 creates the ordered universe we

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
know. Dominic O’Meara tells us that “nature is not a reality
separate from soul in the same way that soul is a reality
separate from intellect [Nous].”141 Nature receives only the
faintest signs of this forming activity, but it is enough to make
an image of the One present in all things. Similarly, the Bahá’í
Writings say,
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent
testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light.
Methinks, but for the potency of that revelation, no
being could ever exist.142
Even the light imagery here is consistent with the Enneads. In
the Plotinian sense of ‘dependence’ Soul contains nature;
therefore, “The Soul bears it up, and it lies within, no fragment
of it unsharing.”143 No aspect of nature is outside of or beyond
Soul which gives life to the natural world.
However, at this point we have reached an important
difference between the Writings and the Enneads. Whereas
Plotinus separates the functions of the Nous and the Soul, the
Bahá’í concept of the Manifestation includes the functions of
the Plotinian Nous and Soul, i.e. the Bahá’í concept of the
Manifestation combines the functions of the first two
emanations in the Plotinian system. Bahá’u’lláh says of the
Manifestations,
all else besides these Manifestations, live by the
operation of Their Will, and move and have their being
through the outpourings of Their grace.144
Here Bahá’u’lláh categorically asserts that “all besides these
Manifestations” live by the “Will” of the Manifestations,
Who, in this sense have the life-giving function of the Plotinian
World Soul. It is by the Manifestations that all things “have
their being,” i.e. have their existence. This is exactly what the
Soul does for everything in nature. Another similarity between
the Manifestation and the Soul is that “the Sanctified Realities,
the supreme Manifestations of God, surround the essence and
qualities of the creatures, transcend and contain existing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
realities.”145 Nature, as Plotinus tells us, is contained by the
Soul.
At this point a question arises. In the Enneads “Soul
contemplates [Nous] and creates matter.”146 Low as it is on the
ontological scale of being, matter enables the One’s attributes
to appear in the actual things in the world of nature. May we
conclude that the Manifestation creates matter in a manner
analogous to the Soul? It is certainly tempting to answer
affirmatively especially in light of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement:
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to
bind the one true God with His creation, and no
resemblance whatever can exist between the transient
and the Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute, He
hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure
and stainless Soul be made manifest in the kingdoms of
earth and heaven.147
The fact that there is no “direct” tie between God and creation,
might also suggest that the intermediary between the “transient
and the Eternal” and the “contingent and the Absolute” could
have been the agent of creation. This agent would also be
responsible for the creation of matter. However, this only a
logical possibility which cannot be supported by textual
evidence from the Writings. Therefore, we must leave this
question unanswered until such time as further research can
clarify the issue.
Let us now examine a diagram comparing the emanative
order in the Writings and in the Enneads.
THE ONE
GOD
NOUS
MANIFESTATION /
KINGDOM
“heavenly station”, “primal
Mirror”
SOUL — — higher Soul
(contemplative)
MANIFESTATION /
KINGDOM
— physical, rational
embodied station

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
SOUL — — lower Soul (active) WORLD OF CREATION
Contains NATURE

Most obvious here is that in both the Writings and in the
Enneads reality or existence is divided into three aspects.
According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, existence is ‘divided; into three
aspects, i.e. “the world of God, the world of the Kingdom, and
the world of Creation.”148 The Manifestation is the
intermediary between the “world of God” and the “world of
creation.”149 In Plotinus, we have the One, the Nous and the
Soul. In both cases we observe a tripartite division of
existence. We have already noted the similarity of function in
the three “hypostases” as Plotinus calls them.
12. The Principle of ‘Turning Towards God’
Clearly, in the Enneads and the Bahá’í Writings, the
principle of ‘turning toward the source’ is established at both
the ontological and spiritual-ethical level. Indeed, the two levels
are related insofar as the highest ontological ‘being,’ i.e. the
One or God, is also the highest spiritual and ethical good.
Ontology thus determines ethics; the actual structure of the
universe determines the hierarchy of goods we are intended to
pursue with God at the apex and matter at the nadir. The order
or scale of being establishes the scale of values. The two order
of being and value are therefore correlated. As William Inge
writes,
the hierarchies of existence and of value must
ultimately be found to correspond ... it follows that
that order of phenomena which has the lowest degree of
reality in the existential scale must have the lowest
degree of value in the ethical or spiritual scale.150
It is important to note that turning towards God is not
limited to the Manifestations. All beings do, and for
humankind this is particularly important because that is the
only way to realise our unique spiritual potential as humans. In
many places throughout the Writings, we are reminded to turn

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
our minds and hearts to God. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that the
Manifestations
must so educate the human reality that it may become
the center of the divine appearance, to such a degree
that the attributes and the names of God shall be
resplendent in the mirror of the reality of man, and the
holy verse “We will make man in Our image and
likeness” shall be realized.151
In Plotinian terms, only if we turn to our “begetter” will we
reflect the divine names and powers, and, thereby, make the
most of our potentials and be ‘most ourselves.’ This theme is
supported by the various exhortations to “polish the mirrors of
our hearts”152 which implicitly contains the idea of turning
towards God since otherwise, the mirror will not reflect God’s
light. Our spiritual task is to reflect God’s image, as Soul and
nature reflect the image of the Nous and the Nous reflects the
image and light of the One.
The implications of this correlation between the ontological
and ethical are profound. For example, it means that ethics
have an objective basis and are not only matters of personal
choice. The correlation between the ontological and ethical
orders allows us to assert that at least some ethical choices are
objectively right or wrong precisely because they agree or
conflict with the scale of being. Such choices are ‘unnatural’
because they violate the order of nature as established by the
One. The most obvious illustration of this is the categorical
Bahá’í rejection of materialism, at the ontological, scientific
and social/consumer levels. Making matter the foundation of
ontological and/or scientific explanation and the highest goal
of human aspiration is wrong because doing so literally turns
the “hierarchy of existence” on its head by giving priority to
that which is last. Such an inversion is, in the deepest sense,
‘unnatural,’ i.e. contradicts the divinely established scale of
being or “hierarchy of existence.”
Consequently, both the Bahá’í Writings and the Enneads
adhere to a concept of natural law — based on the scale of being
— as binding on human beings. ‘Natural law,’ of course, does
not mean that humans model themselves on nature as found on
the material nature; rather, it means that we model ourselves on

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
our essential, spiritual nature as reflected in the “hierarchy of
existence”: “Man is, in reality, a spiritual being, and only when
he lives in the spirit is he truly happy.”153 Many arguments
against ‘natural law theory’ fail on this ground: they assume
that ‘nature’ means ‘physical nature’ — and then point to
animal behaviors in nature as a way of justifying similar
behaviors in humans. “Natural law’ in the sense of the Writings
or the Enneads does not agree with this. In their view, certain
behaviors are rejected because they are inappropriate to
humankind’s spiritual nature or essence based on its high place
in the “hierarchy of existence.”154 These behaviors are
inappropriate because they show our lower animal aspects
dominating our higher spiritual aspects,155 which is ‘unnatural’
precisely because it gives the lower precedence over the higher.
It inverts the “hierarchy of existence.”
The Plotinian and Bahá’í view of ethics may also be described
as ‘essentialist’ insofar as right and wrong are based on a
creature’s place in the scale of being. This should not be
confused with ethical relativism since in the essentialist view,
there are objective standards by which to evaluate our actions.
Differences in standards arise from differences in place in the
scale of being, not from our personal viewpoints or
preferences. However, beings that share the same essence, e.g.
humankind, are subject to the same standard.
Another similarity between the Writings and the Enneads is
that the higher levels of reality have knowledge not available to
the lower levels. For example, the Nous contains all lower levels
of reality because they depend on it (and ultimately on the
One). Therefore, the Nous is cognizant of all that pertains to
these lower levels because it contains them virtually and knows
them “self-reflexively156; it does not think discursively and
inferentially on the basis of the subject/object distinction. In
human terms, the Nous is infallible. Lloyd Gerson informs us
that “Plotinus is among the philosophers who hold that
knowing thus implies infallibility.”157
A similar line of reasoning is seen in the Writings. If, as we
have suggested, the Manifestation in His highest station
combines the functions of Nous and the Soul, then the
Manifestation virtually contains the lower levels of reality,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
and, thereby has infallible knowledge of them. Thus, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá tells us,
Since
the
Sanctified
Realities,
the
supreme
Manifestations of God, surround the essence and
qualities of the creatures, transcend and contain
existing realities and understand all things, therefore,
Their knowledge is divine knowledge, and not acquired
— that is to say, it is a holy bounty; it is a divine
revelation.158
This knowledge is infallible because the Manifestations and
Plotinus’ Nous and Soul are not subject to time and place and
not limited by restrictions such as ‘future,’ ‘past,’ ‘here’ or
‘there.’ Furthermore, they are not just beyond physical space,
but also beyond phenomenological space such as ‘within,’
‘outside,’ ‘subjectivity’ and ‘objectivity.’ Therefore, all
possible
knowledge
is
present
to
them.
Hence,
the
Manifestation has “essential infallibility.”159
It is clear, therefore, that “essential infallibility” is not
simply an arbitrary attribution to the Manifestation; nor is it
merely a token of respect or exaggerated or even irrational
religious veneration. Rather, it is a direct logical consequence
of the Manifestation’s place in the scale of being, i.e. a
consequence of the emanationist world-view espoused by the
Writings. There is no need to accept this teaching on ‘blind
faith’ contrary to reason.160
13. The ‘Ideas’ or ‘Names of God’
There is yet another important issue to discuss regarding the
Nous and the Bahá’í Writings, namely, the issue of intelligibles,
or archetypes or as Plato called them, Ideas. According to J.M.
Rist, “[Nous] however comprises the World of intelligible
objects.”161
if the Intellectual-Principle [Nous] is to be the maker of
All, it cannot make by looking outside itself to what
does not yet exist. The Authentic Beings [Ideas] must,
then, exist before this All, no copies made on a model

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
but themselves archetypes, primals, and the essence of
the Intellectual-Principle.162
Elsewhere Plotinus says, “the Intellectual-Principle [Nous] is the
authentic existences and contains them all — not as in a place
but as possessing itself and being one thing with this
content.”163 The “intelligible objects” or the “Authentic Beings”
are, in effect, Plato’s Ideas, i.e. models for nature, a lower level
of reality, to aspire to and imitate in concrete individual
examples. (They imitate these timeless models in the process of
time to which nature is subject, a fact which allows Platonic
theory and evolution to be combined. As Plato says, “Time
[evolution] is the moving image of eternity.”164) The Ideas exist
in the Nous which reflects them into the Soul which in turn
reflects them into the world of physical nature where they
appear as the embodied physical forms of things. However, this
still leaves us with the question of whether or not the Bahá’í
Writings contain anything that confirms Plotinus’ teaching on
this issue.
In our view, the Bahá’í Writings do, in fact, agree with
Plotinus’ insight albeit from a new perspective. First, we
should note ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “the earth is the
mirror of the Kingdom; the material world corresponds to the
spiritual world.”165 In other words, what we observe on earth
are the images of higher realities in the spiritual world. There is
a correspondence between the lower and higher. A similar idea
is expressed in the following statement by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this
nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A
shadow hath no life of its own; its existence is only a
fantasy, and nothing more; it is but images reflected in
water, and seeming as pictures to the eye.166
Here, too, we observe the contrast between the “real world” of
the Kingdom of which this material world is only an imitation,
a mirror image, or a shadow. This clearly implies that the
‘models’ or ‘archetypes’ or, as Plato called them, the ‘Ideas’ are
in the Kingdom, which as we shall see is the world of the
Manifestation. The idea of a correspondence between the earth
and the Kingdom is re-emphasized from an ethical perspective
when he says that “the nether world [should] become the mirror

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
of the Kingdom,”167 i.e. the earth should reflect what is already
found in perfect form in the Kingdom. William Inge calls this
view real-idealism in which the world is “an actual but
imperfect copy of the perfect archetype.”168 He adds, “The
sensible world is a reflexion of the spiritual world in the mirror
of Matter.”169
The unavoidable implication of these and similar statements
is that the Kingdom contains models — or Plato’s ‘Ideas’ —
which the world should strive to emulate. Yet, strong as the
implication may be, such models are nowhere mentioned in the
Writings, at least, not by that name. However, it is our
contention that the Platonic ‘Ideas’ or Plotinian “authentic
existences” contained by the Nous is similar to the Bahá’í
concept of the names of God. For example, the Writings assign
the following names to God: “the Fashioner” “the Creator,” “the
Almighty” and the “Omniscient.” In our view, these names
virtually contain within them the archetypes or potentials of
everything that can exist. For example, Bahá’u’lláh states,
through the mere revelation of the word “Fashioner,”
issuing forth from His lips and proclaiming His
attribute to mankind, such power is released as can
generate, through successive ages, all the manifold arts
which the hands of man can produce. This, verily, is a
certain truth. No sooner is this resplendent word
uttered, than its animating energies, stirring within all
created things, give birth to the means and instruments
whereby such arts can be produced and perfected.170
God, the Speaker utters the word “Fashioner” and thereby sets
into motion the generative, creative and energizing powers that
culminate in the existence of new things in the ontologically
lower levels of being. In other words, these processes realize the
potentials they virtually contain. If there were no potential for
order in the names of God, then the processes they unleash
would be chaotic instead of creative, i.e. would not result in
the creation of an ordered world. God reveals these names and
attributes first through the Manifestation, Who then reflects
them into the natural world in general and specifically, into the
“reality of man”171 where they best develop under the education
of the Manifestation.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Instead of thinking of the names of God as specific and
static Platonic Ideas abiding in the “First Mind,” it is
advantageous, in our view, to think of the names of God as
dynamic, as actions from God into the lower levels of reality.
To call God “the Creator” presupposes creative action in one
form or another; to call Him “the Omnipotent” requires that
He actually shows His power; to call Him “the Most Generous”
or “the Sustainer” presupposes actions that demonstrate those
traits;
“Resuscitator
implies
resuscitation,
Provider
necessitates provision.”172 “The Merciful” presupposes the
action of showing mercy, and “Lord” requires the exercise of
power as well as subjects. A little reflection indicates that the
existence of all the objects of these actions is presupposed
within the actions themselves. In other words, the Platonic
Ideas that exist as entities within Plotinus’ Nous, exist
virtually as potentials within the actions that emanate from
God.
This solution also has the advantage of avoiding conflict
with the previously-discussed nature of God which does not
require objects of knowledge, i.e. which is not subject to the
subject/object dichotomy in knowing. If there are specific
Platonic Ideas such as those of humans, roses or gold, it is
difficult to see how they could exist without becoming objects
of knowledge. However, if humans and roses are implicates of
God’s essential name of Creator — which is identical with God
Himself — then no subject/object dichotomy arises. This does
not change even if we think of the names as dynamic actions.
These are the actions from God.
14. Participation
The concept that the names of God correspond to the Ideas
or “Intelligibles” in the Enneads points to yet another
similarity — the theory of participation. According to
Plotinus, all created things participate, i.e. reflect the image of
the ontologically superior entity and through that reflection
process imitate or participate in its being. Thus, the Nous
participates in the One by reflecting its image like a mirror; the
higher Soul reflects the Nous and the lower Soul and Nature
reflect the higher Soul. Therefore,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
[e]verything has something of the Good, by virtue of
possessing a certain degree of unity and a certain
degree of Existence and by participation in Ideal-Form:
to the extent of the Unity, Being, and Form which are
present, there is a sharing in an image, for the Unity
and Existence in which there is participation are no
more than images of the Ideal-Form.173
In some way or another, all things reflect the One, and thus
possess unity and “a certain degree of Existence;” the higher the
degree of participation, the higher the degree of existence
possessed; this process ends with the Nous or Manifestation in
His station as “Primal Mirror” Who has more existence or
reality than anything except God or the One. Belief in the
relativity of degrees of existence is also reflected in the Bahá’í
Writings: “The second proposition is that existence and
nonexistence are both relative.”174 Moreover in the Writings,
just as in Plotinus, God, or the One sets the standard for
measuring our existence: “the existence of creation in relation
to the existence of God is nonexistence.”175 The Manifestation,
of course, enjoys a greater degree of existence because His
ontological station as “Primal Mirror” is closer to God.
That said, it remains to note that in the Bahá’í Writings,
created things reflect the names of God, and, thus become
participants in the actions that these names refer to.
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent
testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light ...
How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that
shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom
that surge within a drop! To a supreme degree is this
true of man ... For in him are potentially revealed all the
attributes and names of God to a degree that no other
created being hath excelled or surpassed. All these
names and attributes are applicable to him. Even as He
hath said: “Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.176
Through the revelation of God’s names, all beings, and
especially humankind, become participants in the divine

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
emanative process. Individual human beings, of course, are
free to choose the extent and way in which they will reflect or
participate in the divine names or actions. That is why it is so
important to cleanse the mirrors of our hearts: “May the
mirrors of hearts be cleansed from dust in order that the Sun of
Truth may be reflected therein.”177 The more we polish our
mirrors, the more they will participate in the light of the divine
truth, i.e. names. Humankind’s special measure of bounty in
the regard constitutes its unique position in the order of
creation.
15. Matter and Evil
Any study of the philosophy of Plotinus and the Bahá’í
Writings is bound to consider the issue of matter and its
relationship to evil. Before discussing this issue it is essential
to draw attention to two important points. First, when
Plotinus discusses matter he does not mean matter as we
ordinarily think of it, for example, minerals, elements or
compounds. According to the Enneads, this matter has already
received form to be a particular kind of matter, e.g. gold, roses
or granite.178 Matter “lives on the farther side of all these
categories [that identify particular forms of matter] and so has
no title to the Name of Being.”179 For Plotinus, matter is the
“substratum”180 on which all the particular forms of matter are
imposed. It may also be described as ‘perfect receptivity’181
waiting for form and for this reason Plotinus compares it to a
mirror and what it reflects to “phantasms.182 Because matter is
formless, it is also unbounded, unlimited, shapeless and
without qualities and therefore has no particular form or
being. Matter, says Plotinus, is “utter destitution,”183 or, to
use the more common term, it is ‘privation’184 or lack of
attribute. It is like a shadow. It should be noted that matter is
the last stage or degree of the emanative process. As pure
receptivity or potential, matter cannot emanate anything
because in itself, it has nothing to give and can only receive.
However, at the same time, Plotinus states that matter aspires
to substance, i.e. real existence,185 although this aspiration can
never be met but must remain an aspiration. The One, or God,
is, of course, the most real of all existents and for that reason,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
matter also aspires towards the One. We shall deal with this
topic below.
The second major point about matter and evil is that for
Plotinus, there are two kinds of evil which must not be
confused with each other.186 Moral evil is committed by human
beings as a result of free will while ontological evil is the result
of matter being the lowest level of the emanative process.
Because there are degrees of perfection in the stages of
emanation, there must be a point where there no more
perfections are possessed and there is only a perpetual
receptivity to perfections from higher levels of the emanative
process. Thus, when we say that matter is inherently evil in
Plotinus, we mean that it is ‘metaphysical evil,’ i.e. a lack of
attributes that can have any form imposed on it.
Evil is not in any and every lack; it is absolute lack.
What falls in some degree short of the Good is not Evil;
considered in its own kind it might even be perfect,
but where there is utter dearth, there we have Essential
Evil, void of all share in Good; this is the case with
matter.187
Plotinus explains why this lack makes matter evil:
[I]t corrupts and destroys the incomer, it substitutes
its own opposite character and kind not in the sense of
opposing , for, example, concrete cold to concrete
warmth, but by setting its own formlessness against
the Form of heat, shapelessness to shape, excess and
defect to the duly ordered. Thus, in sum, what enters
into Matter ceases to belong to itself, comes to belong
to matter ...188
In other words, matter brings about a lack of moderation, i.e.
a lack of limitation, of order, measure, shape or constraint.
Here we have not only an explanation for the ontological
nature of evil — or absolute disorder — but also the ontological
foundation for the Bahá’í emphasis on moderation,189 and
constraint as seen for example, in the emphasis on “true
liberty”190 which “consisteth in man's submission unto My
commandments, little as ye know it.”191

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
In these teachings, we observe that in the Bahá’í Writings, as
in the Enneads, ethics are grounded in and correlated with
ontology. The higher we rise above matter in the emanative
order, i.e. the closer we approach the One or God, the closer we
approach to form, ‘Ideas,’ or the names of God, and thereby,
the closer we approach to own real nature or true ‘selves.’
Matter, of course, undermines form, order, measure and the
spiritual which means that the more we fall into the power of
matter, the less we shall be our ‘true selves.’ Applying this
principle to human ethics, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Every good habit, every noble quality belongs to man's
spiritual nature, whereas all his imperfections and
sinful actions are born of his material nature. If a
man's Divine nature dominates his human nature, we
have a saint ... Saints are men who have freed
themselves from the world of matter and who have
overcome sin. They live in the world but are not of it,
their thoughts being continually in the world of the
spirit.192
Elsewhere, He says that in receiving God’s bounty “the reality
of man becomes purified and sanctified from the impurities of
the world of nature.”193 In other words, moral goodness
requires that there be appropriate order in the soul.
‘Appropriate’ in the case of humankind means that the higher,
i.e. spiritual control the lower, i.e. material nature. When this
does not happen, when the soul turns away from the One and
to itself, it descends into non-being, in which the lower is in
control.194 Because the higher should control the lower it is
proper that man controls or masters nature (in a non-
destructive way) for man represents the spiritual principle in
the material world.195 In both Plotinus and the Writings, the
spiritual takes ontological and ethical precedence over the
material.
At this point a note of caution is necessary. For the
Writings, nature and matter are not necessarily morally evil in
themselves. That is why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that “it is evident
that in creation and nature evil does not exist at all; but when
the natural qualities of man are used in an unlawful way, they
are blameworthy.”196 An “unlawful way” is taken when we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
choose to submit the spiritual to our animal nature.
Consequently, Adam’s physical nature is the “source of all
imperfection”197 and his spiritual nature is the “source of all
perfection.” Furthermore, in nature, all existences are good in
themselves although they may not be good in relationship to
each other:
Are they [scorpions] good or evil, for they are existing
beings? Yes, a scorpion is evil in relation to man; a
serpent is evil in relation to man; but in relation to
themselves they are not evil, for their poison is their
weapon, and by their sting they defend themselves. But
as the elements of their poison do not agree with our
elements — that is to say, as there is antagonism
between these different elements, therefore, this
antagonism is evil; but in reality as regards themselves
they are good.198
Thus, evil is relational insofar as a thing or an act can only be
evil in relationship to something else. The Enneads reflect a
similar view. Matter, i.e. utter privation or pure potentiality is
not evil in itself but in relationship to form; its effects are evil
because it undermines form with its formlessness and
immoderation. Matter may be evil in relationship to the soul
because the soul becomes fixated on the body and thus turns
away from the One. For that reason matter, bodies, nature can
drag humans into moral evil if humans choose to be dominated
by them. This happens when the soul focuses only on itself and
cuts itself off from the influence of higher emanations, and,
ultimately, the One.199 Cutting itself off from the One or the
Manifestation of God from Whom all gifts and powers are
obtained, causes the self to suffer deficiencies. This idea is
apparent in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement,
the sensible realities are absolutely good, and evil is due
to their nonexistence — that is to say, blindness is the
want of sight, deafness is the want of hearing, poverty
is the want of wealth, illness is the want of health, death
is the want of life, and weakness is the want of
strength.200
Here, too, evil is being defined as a privation or lack of that
which is good, just as in Plotinus it is defined as that which

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
lacks form, order, or other positive attributes.201 Thus, it is
non-being,202 i.e. not nothing but rather the difference that
contradicts Being or the One.203 Of course, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
reference is to moral evil but we observe that the same principle
of ontological evil as privation is being applied. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
asserts,
the intellectual realities, such as all the qualities and
admirable perfections of man, are purely good, and
exist. Evil is simply their nonexistence. So ignorance is
the want of knowledge; error is the want of guidance;
forgetfulness is the want of memory; stupidity is the
want of good sense. All these things have no real
existence.204
By “no real existence,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá means that evil has no
substance, i.e. has no independent existence in itself but is
simply the lack of certain attributes and/or virtues. It has
‘presence’ insofar as we can detect, feel, recognise these
deficiencies ; however, this presence makes itself felt only by
way of a negative contrast, a deficiency of something that
should be there.
16. The Return to God
The final subject we shall refer to briefly in this outline of
the similarities and convergences between the Bahá’í Writings
and the Enneads concerns the return to God. Such a return is
the deepest desire of all souls, whether they are aware of it or
not because all souls are attracted to beauty. As Plotinus says,
Therefore, we must ascend again towards the Good, the
desired of every Soul. Anyone that has seen This [Good
or Beauty], knows what I intend when I say that it is
beautiful. even the desire of it is to be desired as a
Good. To attain to it is for those that will take the
upward path ... divest themselves of all that we have
put on in our descent ...205
This statement is in complete harmony with Bahá’u’lláh’s
prayer, in which He addresses God as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
my Desire and the Desire of all things, my Strength and
the Strength of all things, my King and the King of all
things, my Possessor and the Possessor of all things, my
Aim and the Aim of all things, my Mover and the
Mover of all things! Suffer me not, I implore Thee, to
be kept back from the ocean of Thy tender mercies, nor
to be far removed from the shores of nearness to
Thee.206
What is striking about this prayer is that Bahá’u’lláh mentions
not just His desire but “the Desire of all things” (emphasis
added) and the “Aim of all things” (emphasis added). In other
words, He expresses not only His own desire for God but
universalizes His desire to include “all things” without any
qualification. He also refers to God as His “Aim” and then
again universalizes this claim to “all things;” He does not limit
it to Himself or human beings or even sentient beings. From
this perspective it appears that matter, since it is included in
the category of “all things” aspires to something greater though
how that aspiration makes itself known to us cannot be said at
this point.
17. Conclusion
Even on the basis of an outline such as this, it is clear that
the Bahá’í Writings and the philosophy of Plotinus share
numerous similarities. There are, as we have noted, some
important differences between the Writings and the Enneads
but these are greatly outnumbered by the similarities we have
encountered. These correspondences make this subject worth
further in-depth study.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Paris Talks. London: The Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.
— — — . Some Answered Questions. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1981.
— — — . The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Second Edition. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
— — — . Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá., Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1957.
Bahá’u’lláh Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í.
Publishing Trust, 1976
— — — . Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
— — — . The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh (Arabic). Kuala Lumpur: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1985.
Brehier, Emile. The Philosophy of Plotinus. Trans. By Joseph Thomas.
Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 1958.
Cole, Juan. “The Concept of the Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings.”
http://bahai-library.com/?file=cole_concept_manifestation
Deck, John. N. Nature, Contemplation and the One. Burdett N.Y. Larson
Publications, 1967.
Foster, Mark. Neo-Platonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Ontology,”
http://bahai-
library.com/unpubl.articles/neoplatonism.framework.html
Gerson, Lloyd, P. Plotinus. New York, Routledge, 1994.
Gerson, Llyod, P. editor The Cambridge Companion to Plotinus.
Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1996.
Hadot, Pierre. Plotinus or the Somplicity of Vision. Chicago, The
University of Chicago Press, 1993.
Hazini, Nima. “Neoplatonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
http://bahai-library.com/conferences/neoplatonism.hazini.html
Inge, William, Ralph. The Philosophy of Plotinus, Vol. I and II. New York,
Longmans, Green and Co. 1918.
O’Meara, Dominic J. Plotinus: An Introduction to the Enneads. Oxford,
Oxford University Press, 1993.
Plotinus. The Enneads. Trans. by Stephen MacKenna. Burdett N.Y.,
Larson Publications.
Rappe, Sara. Reading Neoplatonism. Cambridge, Cambrdge University
Press, 200.
Rist, J.M. Plotinus: The Road to Reality. Cambridge, Cambidge University
Press, 1967.

NOTES
1 The best known study of the origin and scope of Neoplatonic influence
in Islamic culture is Peter Adamson’s The Arabic Plotinus.
2 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 19.
3 Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p. 445.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

4 At the scholarly level we have the lengthy series Studies in Neoplatonism,
Ancient and Modern published by SUNY along with The Cambridge
Companion to Plotinus; at the popular level there are the multiple
volumes by Ken Wilber.
5 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, throughout Chapter 54.
6 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 49, 229, 315.
7 Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p. 445.
8 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 18.
9 The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, ed. by Robert Audi p. 563,
which subsumes ontology under metaphysics; Anthony Flew, A
Dictionary of Philosophy, 255; see also The Oxford Companion to
Philosophy ed. by Ted Honderich and The Oxford Dictionary of
Philosophy ed. by Simon Blackburn.
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 169.
11 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 51.
12 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 5.
13 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p. 24.
14 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148
15 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
16 Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 18
17 Enneads, VI, 8, 7.
18 Enneads, VI, 8, 13.
19 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 231.
20 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXXI, p. 157.
21 Enneads, V, 4,1.
22 Enneads, VI, 9, 6.
23 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXX, p. 136.
24 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 318.
25 Enneads, VI, 8, 14.
26 Enneads, VI, 8, 17.
27 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
28 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 260.
29 Enneads, V, 4, 1; also V 2, 1.
30 Enneads VI, 9, 3.
31 Enneads, V, 2, 1.
32 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 207.
33 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.
34 Enneads, VI, 8, 13; VI, 8, 14; VI 8, 16.
35 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

36 Enneads, V,4,1.
37 Enneads, V, 5, 6.
38 Enneads, VI, 9, 7.
39 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 390.
40 Enneads, V, 5, 5.
41 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 206.
42 Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
43 Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 206.
44 Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 205.
45 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 173
46 Enneads, III, 8, 8.
47 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p. 28; original
emphasis.
48 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p. 28.
49 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p. 66.
50 Enneads, VI 8, 8;
51 Enneads, VI, 8, 8.
52 Enneads, VI, 9, 6.
53 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p. 66.
54 Enneads, VI, 8, 9.
55 Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 80.
56 Enneads, VI, 8, 16; III, 9, 4.
57 Enneads, V,5 ,9.
58 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 2o5.
59 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p. 178.
60 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXVII, p. 150; see also
The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 272, 377, 462.
61 Enneads, V 2, 2.
62 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 295 — 296.
63 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
64 Enneads, I, 8, 2.
65 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 51; emphasis added.
66 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 177.
67 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181.
68 Enneads, V,3, 12.
69 Enneads, III, 9, 9.
70 Enneads, III, 8, 11.
71 Enneads, V, 6, 3.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

72 Enneads, VI, 7, 40.
73 Enneads, VI, 7, 41.
74 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 293 — 294; emphasis added.
75 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221; emphasis added.
76 Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 24.
77 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 24.
78 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 23 — 24; emphasis added.
79 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 138.
80 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
81 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
82 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
83 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
84 Enneads, III, 8, 10.
85 Enneads, III, 8, 10; V 3, 13, 14.
86 Enneads, VI, 9,4.
87 Enneads, V,3, 14; emphasis added.
88 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 56.
89 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220 — 221.
90 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148.
91 Enneads, V, 3, 14; emphasis added.
92 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 222; emphasis added.
93 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
94 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p. 65
95 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 266.
96 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 60.
97 Lloyd P. Gerson, Plotinus, p. 29-30.
98 Enneads, V, 3, 12; emphasis added; see also I, 7, 1.
99 Enneads, V, 1, 6.
100 Abdu’l-Bahá, Divine Philosophy, p. 108.
101 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203; emphasis added.
102 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 296.
103 Enneads, III, 8, 10.
104 Enneads, III, 8, 10; emphasis added.
105 Enneads, V, 4, 1.
106 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 44.
107 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181; emphasis added.
108 Enneads, V, 2, 1.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

109 Enneads, V, 4, 1.
110 Enneads, V, 1, 6.
111. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXVIII, p.
150.
112 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 272; emphasis
added.
113 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148.
114 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVI, p. 60.
115 Enneads, VI, 8, 9.
116 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CXXIX, p. 284.
117 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 272.
118 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203
119 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
120 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
121 Enneads, III, 7, 11-13.
122 Enneads, V, 1, 3.
123 William Inge, The Philosophy of Plotinus.
124 Enneads, V, 1, 6.
125 Enneads, V, 2, 1; emphasis added.
126 Enneads, V,2, 1.
127 Enneads, V, 1, 6.
128 Enneads, V, I, 6.
129 Enneads, V, 1, 6.
130 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIX, p. 48; Abdu’l-Bahá,
Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 66; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered
Questions, p. 147; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 206;
131 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 205.
132 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147; emphasis added.
133 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XC, p.179; emphasis added.
134 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 26.
135 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p. 49.
136 John Deck, Nature, Contemplation and the One, p. 49.
137 Enneads, IV, 3, 10; emphasis added.
138 Enneads, IV, 3, 9.
139 Enneads, IV, 3, 9.
140 Enneads, IV, 3, 9.
141 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 77.
142 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p. 177; emphasis added.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

143 Enneads, IV, 3, 9.
144 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XC, p.179; emphasis added;
see also XLIX, p. 102.
145 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157 — 158.
146 J.M. Rist, Plotinus The Road to Reality, p. 90.
147 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVII, p. 66.
148 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 295.
149 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 295.
150 Wiiliam Inge, The Philosophy of Plotinus, Vol. 1, p. 132.
151 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.9.
152 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 14.
153 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 72.
154 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 130.
155 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 119.
156 Lloyd P Gerson, Plotinus, p. 55.
157 Lloyd P Gerson, Plotinus, p. 55.
158 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157 — 158.
159 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 171.
160 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181.
161 J.M. Rist, Plotinus, The Road to Reality, p. 88.
162 Enneads, V, 9, 5.
163 Enneads, V, 9, 6; emphasis added.
164 Plato, Timaeus.
165 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
166 Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 178; emphasis added.
167 Bahá’í World Faith, p. 400.
168 William Inge, The Philosophy of Plotinus, Vol, I, p. 151.
169 William Inge, The Philosophy of Plotinus, Vol, I, p. 152.
170 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXIV, p. 141 — 142.
171 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.9.
172 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 272.
173 Enneads, I, 7, 2.
174 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
175 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
176 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p. 177; emphasis added.
177 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 244.
178 Enneads, III, 6, 7.
179 Enneads, III, 6, 7.

Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings

180 Enneads, II, 5, 5.
181 Enneads, II, 4, 4.
182 Enneads, III, 6, 7.
183 Enneads, II, 4, 16.
184 Enneads, III, 9, 3; II, 4, 1.
185 Enneads, III, 6, 7.
186 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 86.
187 Enneads, I, 8, 5.
188 Enneads, I, 8, 8.
189 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 69.
190 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CLIX, p. 336.
191 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CLIX, p. 336
192 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 60.- 61; emphasis added.
193 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 92.
194 Enneads, III, 9, 3.
195 Tablet to August Forel, p. 11.
196 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 215.
197 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 118.
198 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 263 — 264; emphasis added.
199 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 83.
200 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 263.
201 Dominic O’Meara, Plotinus, An Introduction to the Enneads, p. 82.
202 Enneads, I, 8, 6.
203 Enneads, II, 4, 16.
204 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 263
205 Enneads, I, 6, 7; emphasis added.
206 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, p. 59.


Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded
Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)
A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
Abstract: This paper consists of an introductory survey
together with a provisional translation of Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet
of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa). The
subject of the Tablet is the unresolved conflict in Islam
between philosopher-mystics who adhere to the philosophy of
existential oneness (wa˙dat al-wujúd) and jurists and others
who oppose this view regarding it as heresy and blasphemy.
Bahá’u’lláh seeks to resolve the issue and bridge the gap between
the these two attitudes of mind by showing how both
viewpoints can be true when taken within the context of the
concept of the Manifestation of God.
The Tablet known as the Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa (Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality) dates from the Akka period. In this
Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh deals with one of the issues that has run
through the Islamic world from the Middle Ages onwards. This
is the controversy between two positions concerning the
nature of the relationship between God and His creation. These
two positions existed from the earliest days of Islam and
eventually became known as Wa˙dat al-Wujúd (existential
unity, oneness of being) and Wa˙dat ash-Shuhúd (unity in
appearence only). The former was the position taken by the
followers of Ibn al-`Arabí (d. 638 A.H./1240) and was more
common among those inclined towards Sufism and mystical
philosophy. The latter was the position commonly taken by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
jurists and was given its name by Shaykh A˙mad Sirhindí (971
A.H./1563-1034 A.H. - 1034/1624-5) in the 17th century.
In brief it may be said that those who supported the
position of Wa˙dat al-Wujúd maintained that Being is one —
it is that which exists. Since existence is also one of the
essential attributes of God, then it may be said that all things
are subsumed in the one Absolute Reality that we call God. This
one Reality has different aspects according to the way that it is
viewed.
Those who held to the opposing position of Wahdat ash-
Shuhúd maintained that God is beyond any conceptualizations
that can be made of Him; he is wará' al-wará thumma wará' al-
wará thumma wará' al-wará (beyond the beyond, then beyond
the beyond, and again beyond the beyond)1. Hence the mystics'
experience of unity or union or any apprehension of God
through mystical experience is subjective only and has no
objective validity. The unity that mystics claim with God is
only an appearance and has no substance.
In Iran, the concept of wa˙dat al-wujúd had a powerful
influence especially upon many philosopher-mystics. The most
important of these was Íadru'd-Dín Shírází, known as Mullá
Íadrá. It is Mullá Íadrá whose dictum “All that which is
uncompounded in Its Reality is, by virtue of Its [absolute]
Unity, all things” (kullu ma huwa basí†u 'l-˙aqíqa fa-huwa bi-
wa˙datihi kullu 'l-ashyá') is quoted and commented upon by
Bahá’u’lláh in this Tablet. This dictum is one of the
cornerstones of Mullá Íadrá's philosophy and is explicated in
several of his works: al-Óikmat al-Arshiyyah (the Wisdom of the
Throne)2, al-Mabda wa'l-Mu`ád (the Origin and the Return)3,
al-Mashá`ir fí Ma`rifat Alláh (the Staging-Posts in the
Knowledge of God)4, and al-Óikmat al-muta`áliyya fi'l-Asfar al-
`aqliyya al-arba`a (The Transcendental Wisdom concerning the
Four Journeys of the Rational Soul).5
In his work al-Óikmat al-Arshiyyah, the Wisdom of the
Throne, Mullá Sadrá takes as his starting point the traditional
philosophical concept that all things are composed of quiddity
(mahiyyah, that which answers the question “what is it?”) and
being (wujúd, that which gives existence to the quiddity). He
then goes on to demonstrate that if an entity A has something

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
B negated of it (i.e. if A is stated to be “not B”) and if B is
something that itself has being (i.e. is not merely a statement of
privation or imperfection, such as “not blue” or “illiterate”),
then A cannot be uncompounded in its essential reality since it
must be composed of at least two aspects, an aspect by which
it is A and an aspect by which it is not B. (These two aspects
cannot be identical since that would mean positing that the
very essence of A is something privative such that anyone who
intellected “A” would also immediately intellect “not B”).
Hence the converse of this must also be true, that which is
uncompounded in its reality can have nothing that has being
negated of it — otherwise it would consist of at least two
aspects: an aspect by which it is such (such as A) and an aspect
by which it is not some other (such as not B, not C, etc.), and
would therefore not be uncompounded in its essential reality.
Hence “that which is uncompounded in its reality” must
necessarily be “all things”.6 Elsewhere, Mullá Sadrá makes it
clear that “that which is uncompounded in its reality” is the
“necessarily existent (wájib al-wujúd)”, i.e. God7, and this is the
definition also given by other writers.8
Mullá Sadrá's pre-eminence in the field of Iranian Shi`i
mystical philosophy (˙ikmat) meant that this idea was adopted
and commented upon by numerous other philosophers. For our
purposes, the most significant of those who commented upon
this dictum was the Shaykhí leader, Shaykh A˙mad al-Ahsá'í. He
severely criticized this dictum of Mullá Íadrá because of its
implication of existential monism.
Shaykh A˙mad wrote in several of his works commenting
upon this dictum. The most extensive of these critiques was in
a commentary that he wrote on Mullá Íadra's work the
Mashá'ir (composed in 1234/1818-9 in Kirmánsháh). He also
deals with this subject in his last major work, his commentary
on Mullá Íadrá's Óikmat al-`Arshiyya (completed in 1236/1820-
1 in Kirmánsháh). In the latter, he states that this dictum is
erroneous because:
He [Mullá Sadrá] has concluded that if one negates
something of it and this negation is comprehended in
the mind, then this necessitates composition. And we
say to him: the uncompounded reality is a pure matter,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
not something from which nothing can be negated
because your words that “it is something from which
nothing can be negated” is similar to your words that
“it is something from which something can be
negated”; for in both cases there is need for
composition. There is need for composition from
existent matter and non-existent matter in what you
have rejected and there is need for composition from
existent matter and existent matter in what you have
taken recourse in, and it is that from which nothing
can be negated.9
This subject also arises in a treatise that Shaykh A˙mad
wrote for Mullá Mu˙ammad Damaghání in 1232/1816-7, and in
a treatise written for several unnamed Sayyids in (date not
known)10. In the last-named work, Shaykh A˙mad states that:
When he (Mullá Íadrá) says “the uncompounded reality
is all things”, this expression would suggest that He
[God], praised be He, is all accidents (˙awadith), since
things are accidents. The error of this statement is
clear since accidents are in the realm of contingence (al-
imkán) and the necessarily [existent], praised be He, is
pre-existent (azal) and is not in the realm of
contingence ...
Shaykh A˙mad goes on to give several possible meanings of
Mullá Íadrá's dictum and demonstrates the falseness of each.11
The Báb, in a few places, criticizes the doctrine of wahdat al-
wujúd as it was generally understood among Sufis. He
disapproved, in particular, of the concept that God could
somehow be considered to be dispersed among created things.
In the course of this criticism, He mentions the concept of
basí† al-˙aqíqa. In His Risála adh-Dhahabiyya12, the Báb states
that:
Most of the Islamic philosophers, the peripatetic
philosophers, the followers of Mulla Íadrá (aß-
Íadrá'iyyin), and the Theosophical philosophers (al-
iláhiyyin) have erred in their explanations of this
station. The signs of the effulgences (tajalliyát) of
creation were mistaken by them for the countenance of

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
the Essence [of God]. Thus they went along with
erroneous
statements
concerning
the
Eternal
Archetypes (a`yan thábita) being in the Essence [of
God] in order to establish His knowledge (praised be
He)13; and with mention of the Uncompounded Reality
in order to establish causality (`illiyya) in the Essence
[of God]; and with mention of the connection between
the Essence [of God] and [His] actions and attributes;
and with the mention of the oneness of Being (wa˙dat
al-wujúd) between the Creator (mújid) and the one who
has gone astray (al-mafqúd). All of this is absolute
heresy (shirk ma˙∂) in the estimation of the family of
God, the Imáms of justice, for God has always been the
All-Knowing without the existence of anything having
form and shape (? — shay'un bi-mithl ma inna-hu kana
shayyár). Just as He does not need for His being alive
the existence of anything other than Him, He also does
not need for His knowledge the existence of objects of
knowledge. And the Essence [of God] continues to be
connected to things. The causation (`illiyya) of created
things is His handiwork (san`ihi) and this is the
[Primal] Will, which God has created through itself by
itself without any fire from the Essence [of God]
touching it. And God has created existent things
through it and it continues. The All-High does not
speak except through it; and the All-High does not give
any indication of its essence (dhátiyyatihá). And God
has not given any sign of His Essence in [the whole of]
creation (al-imkán), for His Being (kaynúnátihi) sets
beings apart from being known, and His Essence
(dhatiyyatihi) prevents essences from being explained.
Verily the relationship of the [Primal] Will to Him is
like the relationship of a verse [of scripture] to God. It
is a relationship that is conferred upon Creation not
upon the Essence [of God], for It is sanctified from
the mention of any indications or relationships or
evidences or signs or stations or effulgences or breezes
relating to It; and that being the case none can know It
except Itself. And such expressions as Oneness of Being
and the mention of the Uncompounded Reality is
witness, in the estimation of the people of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
covenants (ahl al-`uhúd), to its falsity, for He is the one
who there is no-one other than He with Him. How then
is it possible to say any words concerning His Being.
On the contrary, all signs in the world of Láhút,
Jabarút, Malakút and Mulk are possibilities of the
hearts and souls [of human beings] and what has
occurred to their imaginations. All who describe God,
except Himself, have lied and deceived for anything
other than Him is not of Him and cannot speak on His
level and cannot have existence with Him, even the
purest expression of the Oneness of God. And I have
set forth proofs in two thousand manuscripts (fí'l-
nuskha al-alifayn) in explanation of the secret of the
confusion (? - ilhá') of the errors of the words of these
men. The beginning of the saying of such words is the
passage from Muhyi ad-Dín, may God delay his
punishment, such as what he has said in the Fußúß [al-
Óikám}. And this is sheer idolatry (shirk) in the
estimation of those who have inner knowledge (ahl al-
bu†ún).
And in a letter addressed to Mírzá Mu˙ammad Sa`íd of
Zavárih14, the Báb states:
And with regard to the reply concerning the
uncompounded reality, which the philosophers have
mentioned in order to assert that there is Being
between the Creator and the one who has gone astray,
there is no doubt that this is erroneous in the
estimation of one who possesses the musk-like
fragrance of fair-mindedness.
Bahá’u’lláh takes a much milder and more accommodating
attitude towards the monist ideas in Sufism. In the Baghdad
period, He spent some time associating with Sufis in
Sulaymaniyya. He also wrote several works in the Sufi style and
idiom. Among these were the Seven Valleys (Haft Vádí), the
Four Valleys (Chahár Vádí), and the poem Qaßída `Izz
Varqá'iyyih (The Ode of the Dove) which was written in the
style of the famous poem at-Tá'iyya of the Sufi poet Ibn al-
Fári∂. Although Bahá’u’lláh wrote less on overtly Sufi themes in
later years, the Tablet which is the subject of this paper and

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
which was revealed in the Akka period is one of those in which
He returns to some of these themes.
Given the fact that both Shaykh A˙mad al-Ahsá'í and the Báb
had written on the theme of Basí† al-Óaqíqa, it was perhaps
inevitable that someone among his followers would ask
Bahá’u’lláh for His comments on the theme of Mullá Íadrá's
dictum. It would appear from the text that one of Bahá’u’lláh's
followers, named Óusayn, had been asked by someone who was
a follower of Mullá Íadrá to ask for Bahá’u’lláh's comments on
the question of Basí† al-Óaqíqa and this Tablet was revealed in
response to the question.
In this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh again displays his benevolent
attitude towards Sufi themes. He refrains from condemning
Mullá Íadrá's dictum outright, and instead states that those
who have condemned this approach have misunderstood it and
have taken it too literally.
Bahá’u’lláh first explains the nature of the division among
Muslims over Mullá Íadrá's dictum and the associated
concepts. He brings forward verses from the Qur'an in
support of both positions. For those who follow Mullá Íadrá's
position, which He here calls Taw˙íd-i-Wujúdi (existential
oneness), Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Qur'anic verse “All things
perish save [His] face” (28:8, cf. 55:27) and interprets this to
support the position of those who assert that the only reality is
the Divine Reality. For those who opposed Mullá Íadrá's
position, which He here calls Taw˙íd-i-Shuhúdí (oneness in
appearance only), Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Qur'anic verse “We
shall show them Our signs on the horizons and in themselves.”
(41:53) This He interprets as saying that any evidence of union
between the Divinity and creation is only the result of the fact
that the signs of God are apparent in all things.
Having defined the two sides of the conflict, Bahá’u’lláh
asserts that those who have attacked Mullá Íadrá's position
have looked only at the literal meaning of his words rather than
the underlying meaning. He then goes on to give an
interpretation of Mullá Íadrá's dictum in terms of the concept
of the Manifestation of God. This is one of Bahá’u’lláh's most
explicit statements of one of the most interesting and
potentially controversial aspects of His doctrine: His assertion

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
that all of the statements that occur in the scriptures relating
to God (including references to His names and attributes, and
statements about His actions and commands) refer in reality
to the Manifestation of God, since no statement can be made
about the Essence of God, which is unknowable.
The Tablet then continues with Bahá’u’lláh's statement that
there is no benefit to be gained from disputing such points.
Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh asserts that His appearence renders all such
disputation secondary. Whichever side of the argument an
individual is on, his status with God depends only on whether
he accepts or rejects Bahá’u’lláh.
There is not much history available regarding this Tablet. It
is from the Akka period and is evidently addressed to an
individual named Óusayn, but there does not appear to be any
information regarding the identity of this individual. In the
Tablet the contemporary Iranian philosopher Óájí Mullá Hádí
Sabzivárí is referred to and condemned for failing to respond
to the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. The following material from
the manuscript history of the Bahá’í Faith in Ashkhabad by
Ustád `Alí Akbar Banná is of interest in relation to this. In the
course of his account of one of the Iranian Bahá’í emigres in
Ashkhabad, Ustád A˙mad Kuláh-dúz Sabzivárí, Ustád `Alí
Akbar Banná writes:
Prior to his conversion [to the Bahá’í Faith], he kept
company with the mystical philosophers (`urafá).
Despite his illiteracy, he sought to acquire the
illumination of wisdom (˙ikmat) from being in the
presence of Óáji Mullá Hádí, Óakím-i Sabzivárí. After
his acceptance of the Faith, he related: “I went to the
afore-mentioned philosopher (˙akím) and informed him
about this matter. The philosopher fell silent and after
a pause said:
`Whatsoever has been accepted by the emotions of
the heart (wujdán) cannot be opposed by
explanation
So keep your lips from moving in explanation of
these three B of opinion (dhaháb), of gold
(dhahab) and of your religion (madhhab)'“

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
Óájí Mu˙ammad Ri∂á the martyr (killed in Ashkhabad
in 1889) stated: “One day I went to the door of the
house of Óájí Mullá Hádí and gave him a copy of the
Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality. I said to him:
`Study this tablet today and I will come tomorrow to
take it back.' He took the tablet and I left. The next day
I went and took the tablet back, He did not say a word
about it.”15
This historical account would mean that the Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality must be dated to before 1878, the date
of the death of Sabzivari. Thus this Tablet dates from the first
decade of time in Akka.
The text which is provisionally translated here16 is that
published in the compilation Alvá˙ Mubarakih Ha∂rat
Bahá’u’lláh: Iqtidárát wa chand law˙ digár (usually known as
Iqtidárát, no date, no of publication, pp. 105-116), the
facsimile of a manuscript in the hand-writing of Mishkín-
Qalam, dated Rajab A.H. 1310/January 1893. The text of this
Tablet has also been published in Ma'idih Asmání (vol. 7, pp.
140-7) and by Alexander (Aleksandr) G. Tumanski (d. 1920) in
his translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Kitabe Akdes, Zapiski
Imperatorskoy Academii Nauk S. Petersburg, 8th series, vol. 3,
no. 6, 1899, pp. 61-4. Manuscripts of this Tablet include one in
the collection of manuscripts bought from Mr. Dunlop of the
British Legation in Tehran by the University of Leiden
(Manuscript Or. 4971, section 7, item 1).

NOTES
1. Sirhindi quoted in Burhan Ahmad Faruqi, The Mujjaddid's Concept of
Tawhid, Lahore: Sh. Muhammad Ashraf, repr. 1970, p. 81.
2. In this paper the text for this work is taken from Shaykh Ahmad al-
Ahsá'í's commentary on the work (see note 9), the translation is adapted
from James Morris, The Wisdom of the Throne (Princeton: Princeton
University Press, 1981).
3. In this paper, use has been made of the Persian translation by Ahmad
Ardikání (Tihran: Markaz Nashr Danishgáhí, 1362).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

4. The Arabic text used is that found in unnumbered pages at the back of
the Persian translation by Ghulam-Husayn Áhangí (Tihran: Intishárát
Mawla, 2nd printing 1361).
5. Qumm: Maktabat al-Mustawfi, 1378/1958, vol.1, p. 116-7
6. Morris, Wisdom, pp. 98-9. A similar argument can be found in al-
Mashá`ir, Mash`ar 6 of Manhaj 1 (Persian translation, p. 63).
7. See for example, al-Mabda, pp. 52-3
8. Mu˙ammad Sharíf Al-Jurjání, for example, in his dictionary of religious
terms, Kitab al-Ta`rífát (Beirut: Maktaba Lubnan, 1969) states that al-
basi† can be considered in three ways. The first of these is al-˙aqíqí,
which is “that which has no parts (or divisions, juz`) to it at all, such as
the Creator, exalted be He.” (p. 46).
9. Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsá'í Sharh al-`Arshiyya vol. 1 (Kirman: Sa`ádat, 1361),
pp. 80-1
10. For details of these works and manuscript and published sources for
them, see M. Momen, The Works of Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsá'í (Bahá’í
Studies Bulletin Monograph, no. 1, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1991, nos.
22, 25, and 39, pp. 52, 55-6, 64-5.
11. Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsá'i, Majmu`a ar-Rasá'il, vol. 30, (Kirman: Matba`a
al-Sa`ádat, second printing, n.d.), pp. 131-2
12.Iranian National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection, vol. 86, pp. 95-6. I am
grateful to Stephen Lambden for finding this and the next quotation in
this paper.
13. This refers to the assertion that if Knowledge is an essential attribute
of God, then the Eternal Archetypes of all created things must be
within the Essence of God in order for there to be something that is the
object of God's knowledge.
14. Iranian National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection, vol. 69, p. 422-3
15. Ustád `Alí Akbar Banná, Taríkh `Ishqábád (manuscript in Afnan Library),
p. 314-5
16. I am grateful to Keven Locke for some suggested corrections to the
translation and to Jack McLean for his suggestions for the
improvement of the English text. Others who suggested improvements
and corrections to my commentary include John Walbridge, Nima
Hazini, and Bijan Masumian

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
Provisional Translation
He is God, exalted be He in Might and Greatness!
Concerning what the questioner has asked regarding the
statement
of
the
philosophers
(˙ukamá)
that
“the
uncompounded reality1 is all things”, say: know that what is
intended by “things” in this context (lit. station, maqám) is
none other than being (wujúd) and the perfections (kamalát) of
being in so far as they are existent [and not privative]2; and by
“all” is meant the obtainer (al-wájid).3 This “all” contains no
plurality and no parts. The meaning is that the uncompounded
reality, insofar as it is uncompounded in all respects, is the
obtainer and gatherer of all the infinite and endless
perfections.4 As it has been said: “His works are limitless.”
In the Persian language, it may be said that what the
philosopher means by the word “things” in the afore-mentioned
expression is the perfections of being in so far as these are
existent [and not privative]; and by the word “all”, is meant
possession (dárá'í) that is to say obtaining — the gathering
together
of
all
of
the
limitless
perfections,
in
an
uncompounded manner. They have mentioned similar things
throughout their discourse on the unity (taw˙íd), power
(quwwat), and intensity (shiddat) of existence.
The meaning of the philosopher was not that the Necessarily
Existent [God] has become dispersed among (resolved into, lit.
dissolved into, mun˙al) the innumerable existent things. No!
Praised be He! Exalted is He above that! Even as the
philosophers themselves have stated: “The uncompounded
reality is all things, but is not any one thing.”
And viewed from another aspect, the lights of the
uncompounded reality can be seen in all things. This however is
dependent upon the vision of the seer and the discernment of
the beholder. A penetrating vision (abßar-i ˙adídih) is able to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
see the signs of the Primal Divine Unity in all things, since all
things have been and are the places wherein the Divine Names
are manifested. The Absolute Reality, however, has been and
will continue unceasingly to be sanctified from ascent and
descent, from limitations, connections and relationships,
while “things” exist and appear in the condition of limitations.
Thus it has been said: “The existence of the Necessarily
[Existent] would not be in the full perfection of its power and
intensity, were it possible for It to disperse Itself into the
innumerable existent things, but such a dispersion is not
possible.” There is much to be said about this statement and if
one were to elaborate fully on the meaning of the philosophers,
the matter would become lengthy.5[107] Because the hearts of
the noble are perceived to be subtle and refined, the pen chooses
to confine itself to brevity.
Two stations can be observed in the Divine Unity: Existential
Oneness (tawhíd-i wujúdí), and this is that [station] wherein all
things are negated with a “no” and only the Absolute Reality is
affirmed. This means the existence of nothing is acknowledged
except the Absolute Reality, in the sense that all things, when
compared with Its manifestation and remembrance, have been
and will continue to be absolute nothingness (faná-yi ma˙∂).
“All things perish save the [Divine] Face”,6 which means that
compared with Its existence, nothing else has the capacity for
existence and so no mention of the existence of anything else
should be made. It has been said “God was and there was
nothing else beside Him. And He is now as He always has
been.” And yet it can be seen that things exist and have existed.
The meaning of these words is that, in His court, nothing has,
or has ever had, existence. In the Existential Oneness, “all
things” perish and are nothing and the [Divine] “Face7”, which
is the Absolute Reality, is eternal and unceasing.
[The second station in Divine Unity,] Manifestational Oneness
(taw˙íd-i shuhúdí) is that [station] where the signs of the Primal
Divine Unity, the manifestations of Eternity, and the
effulgences of the light of Singleness can be observed in all
things. Thus in the divine book it is revealed: “We shall show
them Our signs on the horizons and in themselves.”8 [108] In
this station the effulgences of the signs of the uncompounded
reality can be observed and are apparent in all things. The

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
meaning of the philosopher was not that the Absolute Reality is
dispersed
among
the
innumerable
existent
things.
Immeasurably exalted is It from being dispersed in any thing or
from being constrained by any limits or from being associated
with any other thing in creation. It is and continues to be
sanctified from and exalted above all else except Itself. We bear
witness that It is one in Its Essence and one in Its attributes.
And all things are held in the grasp of the power of Him [God]
Who is the sovereign Protector of all the worlds.
In one aspect, all that has been said or will be said refers back
to the first assertion, that the glorified and exalted Absolute
Reality is unknowable, unattainable, and invisible, and this
station has been and will continued to be sanctified from all
references and names, and freed from whatever the people of
creation may understand of It. The path is barred and the quest
denied. For whatever wondrous references and powerful
descriptions have appeared from the tongue and pen refer to
the sublime Word [of God], the most exalted Pen, the primal
Summit, the true Homeland, and the Dawning-place of the
manifestation of mercy. This is [109] the source of Divine
Unity (taw˙íd) and the Manifestation of singleness and
abstraction. In this station, all of the most beautiful Names
[of God] and the most lofty [Divine] Attributes refer to Him
(i.e. the manifestation of God), and do not refer to anything
beyond Him, for, as has been stated, the Unseen Reality is
sanctified from all reference. This locus of the light of Divine
Unity, even though outwardly He is given a name and appears
to be bound by limitations, is in His inner reality
uncompounded (baßí†), sanctified from limitations. This
uncompounded state is relative and attributive (i∂áfí wa nisbí)
and not uncompounded in an absolute sense (min kull al-jihát).
In this station, the meaning is as follows: the Primal Word and
the Dawning-place of the light of Primal Oneness is the
educator of all things and the possessor of innumerable
perfections. For this word in this station, there is an
exposition, hidden in the treasures of purity (infallibility,
`ißmat) and recorded in the guarded tablet, which it is not
appropriate to mention now. Perchance God will produce it.
He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
And the objections that have been raised by some to the words
of the philosopher are not based on evidence in that the
meaning of his words has not been understood. Truly one
cannot regard it as sufficient to look to the literal (external)
meaning of a statement and then stir up malice. This is except
in case of the words [110] of those who are notorious for their
unbelief and idolatry. The words of such souls are not worthy
of commentary.
The philosophers have been and are of various factions. Some
have derived what they say from the books of the prophets. And
the first who taught divine wisdom (˙ikma) was Idrís, on
account of which he was given his name,9 and he is also called
Hermes. He is called by a different name in each language. He
has given thorough and convincing expositions in every arena
of divine wisdom. And after him Balínús (Apollonius) derived
some of the sciences from the Hermetic tablets. Most of the
philosophers have derived their philosophical and scientific
discoveries from his words and expositions.
Thus this exposition of the philosopher has been and is still
capable of numerous praiseworthy and specific interpretations
(ta'wílát). Some of those who have attained [the Divine
Presence], wishing to protect the Cause of God, have
outwardly refuted (the words of the philosopher). But this
imprisoned servant does not mention anything but that which
is good. Furthermore this day is not the day for human beings
to occupy themselves with understanding such expositions, for
such knowledge and its like has never been and will never be
conducive to making human beings self-sufficient (able to do
without, detached from all save God, ghaní). For example, the
philosopher who spoke these words, [111] were he to be alive,
and also both they who accepted what he said and those who
opposed him over it, all of them would now be in one position:
every single one of them who, after the raising of the call of the
King of Names from the right hand of the luminous spot,
affirmed his belief, is accepted and praiseworthy,10 and all
others are rejected.
How many the souls who considered themselves as being at the
highest pinnacle of reality and mystical knowledge to the extent
that they considered that what issued forth from their mouths

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
was the balance by which [the truth of] human utterance should
be weighed or the astrolabe with which the calendar of the
beginning and the end should be fixed. Despite all this, in the
days of the spring-time of the All-Merciful and the blowing of
the winds of trials, we did not discover in them either
acceptance or constancy. If a soul were today to be omniscient
in all the sciences of the world and yet hesitate in affirming his
belief (lit. speaking the word “yes”11), he would not be
mentioned in the Divine Presence and would be accounted
among the most ignorant of people. The goal of the religious
sciences is to attain knowledge of the Absolute Reality. Any
soul who holds back from this most holy and most mighty
adornment is recorded in the tablets as being of the dead.
O Husayn! This wronged one declares: words need deeds.
Words without deeds are as bees without honey or as trees
without fruit.
Consider the philosopher Sabzivárí12 [112]. Among his verses,
there is a poem, which conveys the following meaning: “No
Moses is alive to hear it, otherwise the chant of `I verily am
God!' exists in every tree [bush].” Such words as these has he
spoken and his meaning is that the true knower of God rises to
such a station that his eyes perceive the lights of the effulgences
of the luminous Source of manifestation (mujallí) and his ears
discern His call from all things. There is no objection to these
words of the philosopher13, but, as we have already stated, this
is the realm of words. In the realm of deeds, however, it can be
seen that although the call of the divine lote-tree has been raised
upon the highest spot in creation in clear and unambiguous
(min ghayr ta'wíl) language and is inviting all beings through the
loftiest of summonses, he has paid no heed whatsoever. For had
he hearkened, he would have arisen to make mention of it.
Either we must say that these were empty words which flowed
from his mouth, or that, for fear for his reputation and love of
his livelihood (lit. his bread), he remained deprived of this
station (of belief) and of testifying to it. Either he understood
and concealed [his belief] or he understood and denied
[Bahá’u’lláh's claim].
Woe to those who waste [113] their whole lives in trying to
establish the truth of their vain imaginings and yet, when the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
lights of the Divine Presence are shining forth from the horizon
of the name of the Self-Subsisting (al-Qayyúm), they remain
deprived thereof. The Cause is in God's hands. He grants what
He wishes to whomever He wishes, and withholds whatever He
desires from whomever He desires. He is to be praised in His
doings and obeyed in His judgements. No God is there but He,
the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.14
In these days, the following was revealed in a tablet: How many
men, attired with a turban [i.e. learned], have held back and
opposed and how many women wearing veils have recognized
and accepted and have said “Praise be to Thee, O God of the
Worlds!” Thus it is that we have made the most exalted among
them to become the most abased, and the most abased to
become the most exalted. Verily your Lord is Ruler over
whatsoever He wishes.
O Óusayn! Say to the questioner: forsake this small pond when
the most mighty ocean is before you. Draw near and drink
from its waters in the name of your Lord, the Knowing, the All-
Informed. By my life! It will cause you to reach a station
wherein you will see in the whole world naught but the
effulgences of the presence of the Ancient of Days and you will
hearken unto the lote-tree which has been elevated upon the
knowledge that there is no but He, the Powerful, the Mighty,
the Omnipotent.
In this day, it is encumbent upon all souls, when they hear the
call from the Dawning-Place of Creation, to leave behind [114]
the people of the world and their opinions and arise and say:
“Yes,15 O my Desire!” and then to say: “I obey! O Beloved of the
Worlds.”
Say: O questioner! Were the sweetness of the wine of the
exposition of your Lord to seize you and were you to recognize
the wisdom and illumination that is in it, you would forsake
this contingent world and arise to assist this wronged exile and
would proclaim: “Praise be to the one who has manifested the
fluid [waters] as the solid [ice],16 and the uncompounded
[reality] as a circumscribed [creation], and the hidden as the
manifest; the one who, were one to behold him in his outward
form, one would find him in the form of a man standing before
the people of tyranny. Were one to contemplate his inner

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
reality, however, one would recognize him as lord over all who
are in the heavens and earths.”
Listen to what the fire is proclaiming from the luminous lote-
tree raised upon the crimson spot: “O People! Hasten with all of
your hearts to the shore of the Beloved. Thus has the matter
been decided and the decree has issued forth from He who is all-
powerful and trustworthy.”
O questioner! Your words have been mentioned in the Divine
Presence17 in this manifest prison. Thus has been revealed this
tablet from the horizon of which shines forth the sun of the
benevolence of your Lord the mighty, the all-praised. [115]
Know its true worth and value it greatly. This would be best
for you, if you are among those who have true knowledge. We
ask of God that He confirm you in His Cause and make
mention of you and decree for you that which will profit you
in this world and the next. He verily answers the prayers of
those who call upon Him and He is the most merciful of the
merciful.
O servant! Were you to be attracted by the breezes of the
utterances of the Lord of Names and were you to seek
illumination from the lights of the [Divine] Face18, which shine
forth from the Dawning-place of eternity, you would turn your
face towards the all-highest Horizon.
Say: O Creator of the heavens and Lord of Names! I ask You by
Your name through which You have opened the door of meeting
with You to Your creatures and have caused the sun of Your
bounty to shine forth upon those who are in Your kingdom,
that You may cause me to be sincere in Your love, detached
from all save You, arising for Your service, looking towards
Your Face, and speaking in praise of You. O Lord! assist me in
the days of the Manifestation of Your Self and the Dawning-
place of Your Cause, such that I may burn away the clouds
[that obscure You] by Your grace and favour and may consume
the veils [that separate me from You] with the fire of Your love.
O Lord! You are strong and I am weak; You are rich [116] and I
am poor. I ask You, by the ocean of Your bounty, that You do
not cause me to be deprived of Your grace and Your Love. All
things bear witness to Your greatness, Your glory, Your power
and Your might. Guide and assist me through (lit. take my hand

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
in the hand of) Your will and save me by Your sovereignty.
Write down then for me what You have written down for Your
confidants, those who have near access to You and are faithful
to Your Covenant and Testament, who soar in the atmosphere
of Your will and speak Your praise among Your creatures.
Verily You are the Powerful, the Protector, the Lofty, the
Mighty, the Generous.19

NOTES
1. Baßí† al-Haqíqa. Baßít is here translated as “uncompounded”. It has been
translated by James Morris as “simple” (The Wisdom of the Throne, pp.
). Although this is technically a correct translation in the philosophical
sense of the word as something that is uncompounded, I felt that the
word “simple” has too many other meanings in common use and would
be confusing. The translator of the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh (p. 61) has
translated the term as “elementary”. There is also the fact that this
word is being used in a genitive construction and not adjectivally (i.e.
the Arabic may be rendered literally as “the uncompounded of reality”).
The root of the word baßí† means “to spread out” or “to stretch out”,
and in this sense of something spread out, I was tempted to translate
the phrase as “the field of reality”. This would render the passage “the
field of reality is all things” which has a striking resonance with modern
physics in the sense that all physical reality is in modern physics
considered to consist of electro-magnetic fields in which fluxes occur.
This would however, apart from being anachronistic also be a
departure from the sense in which the original author Mullá Sadrá
intended this passage. His meaning was derived from the philosophical
notion that all reality is compounded and that the only uncompounded
reality is God.
2. i.e. those perfections that are positive and existent, rather than those
which are negative and privative.
3. This is a somewhat unusual use of the word wájid, which derives from the
root meaning “to get” or “obtain”. According to Sayyid Ja`far Sajjádí,
(Farhang-i Ma`árif-i Islámí, Tehran, 1373, 3rd vol., p. 2090, citing Shar˙-
i Kalamát-i Bábá Táhir) wájid is used by Bábá ˇáhir `Uryán to refer to
someone who has emptied himself of all vestige of self and has detached
himself from all save God.
4. The basic language of the text changes from Arabic to Persian at this
point, although there continue to be numerous Arabic phrases and
passages in what follows.
5. These numbers refer to the page numbers in the original text in
Iqtidarát.

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa

6. Qur'án 28:88; cf. its corollary 55:26-7. Also associated with this concept
of the Face or Countenance of God is 2:115, which states that:
Wheresoever you turn, there is the Face of God. These verses are taken
in the Islamic mystical and metaphysical tradition to mean that when
one turns one’s face towards (tawajjuh - derived from the same Arabic
root as wajh) God, then everything else in Creation becomes as
nothing.
7. Qur'án, see note 5
8. Qur'án 41:53
9. The name Idrís can be considered to derive from the root “d-r-s” which
means “to teach”.
10. Lit. Attained to the word “Balá” (lit. “Yes”). A reference to Qur'án
7:172, where, in the pre-eternal Covenant, to God's question “Am I not
your Lord?” The children of Adam are made to reply “Yes (Balá).” In
other words, Bahá’u’lláh is saying that were Mullá Sadrá together with
his supporters and opponents all to be alive in Bahá’u’lláh's day, they
would all be in the position of having to face the challenge of
Bahá’u’lláh's claim.
11. See note 9
12. Mullá Hádí Sabzivárí (d. 1878) the most prominent of the Iranian
philosophers of the nineteenth century. An English translation of one
of his major works is available The Metaphysics of Sabzavárí (trans. T.
Izutsu and M. Mohaghegh, New York, 1977).
13. Indeed Bahá’u’lláh himself says much the same in one of the prayers for
the fast: “...this Revelation - a Revelation the potency of which hath
caused every tree to cry out what the Burning Bush had aforetime
proclaimed unto Moses, Who conversed with Thee” (Prayers and
Meditations, no. 85, p. 144).
14. This paragraph is paraphrased and quoted by Bahá’u’lláh in the Words of
Paradise (Kalimát Firdawsiyyih), Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 61
15. See note 9
16. Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, no. 38, p. 49
17. lit. “before the Face”; a Qur'ánic allusion, see note 5
18. Qur'ánic reference, see note 5
19. This paper was originally completed 1 August 1995. It was edited on the
basis of the suggestions made by the individuals named in note 16 and
an additional paragraph drawn from the history of Ustád `Alí Akbar
Banná was added, 18 June 2000. Some slight further modifications were
made preparatory to this publication in 2010.


Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet of the Uncompounded
Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa)
A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
Abstract: This paper consists of an introductory survey
together with a provisional translation of Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet
of the Uncompounded Reality (Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa). The
subject of the Tablet is the unresolved conflict in Islam
between philosopher-mystics who adhere to the philosophy of
existential oneness (wa˙dat al-wujúd) and jurists and others
who oppose this view regarding it as heresy and blasphemy.
Bahá’u’lláh seeks to resolve the issue and bridge the gap between
the these two attitudes of mind by showing how both
viewpoints can be true when taken within the context of the
concept of the Manifestation of God.
The Tablet known as the Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa (Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality) dates from the Akka period. In this
Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh deals with one of the issues that has run
through the Islamic world from the Middle Ages onwards. This
is the controversy between two positions concerning the
nature of the relationship between God and His creation. These
two positions existed from the earliest days of Islam and
eventually became known as Wa˙dat al-Wujúd (existential
unity, oneness of being) and Wa˙dat ash-Shuhúd (unity in
appearence only). The former was the position taken by the
followers of Ibn al-`Arabí (d. 638 A.H./1240) and was more
common among those inclined towards Sufism and mystical
philosophy. The latter was the position commonly taken by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
jurists and was given its name by Shaykh A˙mad Sirhindí (971
A.H./1563-1034 A.H. - 1034/1624-5) in the 17th century.
In brief it may be said that those who supported the
position of Wa˙dat al-Wujúd maintained that Being is one —
it is that which exists. Since existence is also one of the
essential attributes of God, then it may be said that all things
are subsumed in the one Absolute Reality that we call God. This
one Reality has different aspects according to the way that it is
viewed.
Those who held to the opposing position of Wahdat ash-
Shuhúd maintained that God is beyond any conceptualizations
that can be made of Him; he is wará' al-wará thumma wará' al-
wará thumma wará' al-wará (beyond the beyond, then beyond
the beyond, and again beyond the beyond)1. Hence the mystics'
experience of unity or union or any apprehension of God
through mystical experience is subjective only and has no
objective validity. The unity that mystics claim with God is
only an appearance and has no substance.
In Iran, the concept of wa˙dat al-wujúd had a powerful
influence especially upon many philosopher-mystics. The most
important of these was Íadru'd-Dín Shírází, known as Mullá
Íadrá. It is Mullá Íadrá whose dictum “All that which is
uncompounded in Its Reality is, by virtue of Its [absolute]
Unity, all things” (kullu ma huwa basí†u 'l-˙aqíqa fa-huwa bi-
wa˙datihi kullu 'l-ashyá') is quoted and commented upon by
Bahá’u’lláh in this Tablet. This dictum is one of the
cornerstones of Mullá Íadrá's philosophy and is explicated in
several of his works: al-Óikmat al-Arshiyyah (the Wisdom of the
Throne)2, al-Mabda wa'l-Mu`ád (the Origin and the Return)3,
al-Mashá`ir fí Ma`rifat Alláh (the Staging-Posts in the
Knowledge of God)4, and al-Óikmat al-muta`áliyya fi'l-Asfar al-
`aqliyya al-arba`a (The Transcendental Wisdom concerning the
Four Journeys of the Rational Soul).5
In his work al-Óikmat al-Arshiyyah, the Wisdom of the
Throne, Mullá Sadrá takes as his starting point the traditional
philosophical concept that all things are composed of quiddity
(mahiyyah, that which answers the question “what is it?”) and
being (wujúd, that which gives existence to the quiddity). He
then goes on to demonstrate that if an entity A has something

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
B negated of it (i.e. if A is stated to be “not B”) and if B is
something that itself has being (i.e. is not merely a statement of
privation or imperfection, such as “not blue” or “illiterate”),
then A cannot be uncompounded in its essential reality since it
must be composed of at least two aspects, an aspect by which
it is A and an aspect by which it is not B. (These two aspects
cannot be identical since that would mean positing that the
very essence of A is something privative such that anyone who
intellected “A” would also immediately intellect “not B”).
Hence the converse of this must also be true, that which is
uncompounded in its reality can have nothing that has being
negated of it — otherwise it would consist of at least two
aspects: an aspect by which it is such (such as A) and an aspect
by which it is not some other (such as not B, not C, etc.), and
would therefore not be uncompounded in its essential reality.
Hence “that which is uncompounded in its reality” must
necessarily be “all things”.6 Elsewhere, Mullá Sadrá makes it
clear that “that which is uncompounded in its reality” is the
“necessarily existent (wájib al-wujúd)”, i.e. God7, and this is the
definition also given by other writers.8
Mullá Sadrá's pre-eminence in the field of Iranian Shi`i
mystical philosophy (˙ikmat) meant that this idea was adopted
and commented upon by numerous other philosophers. For our
purposes, the most significant of those who commented upon
this dictum was the Shaykhí leader, Shaykh A˙mad al-Ahsá'í. He
severely criticized this dictum of Mullá Íadrá because of its
implication of existential monism.
Shaykh A˙mad wrote in several of his works commenting
upon this dictum. The most extensive of these critiques was in
a commentary that he wrote on Mullá Íadra's work the
Mashá'ir (composed in 1234/1818-9 in Kirmánsháh). He also
deals with this subject in his last major work, his commentary
on Mullá Íadrá's Óikmat al-`Arshiyya (completed in 1236/1820-
1 in Kirmánsháh). In the latter, he states that this dictum is
erroneous because:
He [Mullá Sadrá] has concluded that if one negates
something of it and this negation is comprehended in
the mind, then this necessitates composition. And we
say to him: the uncompounded reality is a pure matter,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
not something from which nothing can be negated
because your words that “it is something from which
nothing can be negated” is similar to your words that
“it is something from which something can be
negated”; for in both cases there is need for
composition. There is need for composition from
existent matter and non-existent matter in what you
have rejected and there is need for composition from
existent matter and existent matter in what you have
taken recourse in, and it is that from which nothing
can be negated.9
This subject also arises in a treatise that Shaykh A˙mad
wrote for Mullá Mu˙ammad Damaghání in 1232/1816-7, and in
a treatise written for several unnamed Sayyids in (date not
known)10. In the last-named work, Shaykh A˙mad states that:
When he (Mullá Íadrá) says “the uncompounded reality
is all things”, this expression would suggest that He
[God], praised be He, is all accidents (˙awadith), since
things are accidents. The error of this statement is
clear since accidents are in the realm of contingence (al-
imkán) and the necessarily [existent], praised be He, is
pre-existent (azal) and is not in the realm of
contingence ...
Shaykh A˙mad goes on to give several possible meanings of
Mullá Íadrá's dictum and demonstrates the falseness of each.11
The Báb, in a few places, criticizes the doctrine of wahdat al-
wujúd as it was generally understood among Sufis. He
disapproved, in particular, of the concept that God could
somehow be considered to be dispersed among created things.
In the course of this criticism, He mentions the concept of
basí† al-˙aqíqa. In His Risála adh-Dhahabiyya12, the Báb states
that:
Most of the Islamic philosophers, the peripatetic
philosophers, the followers of Mulla Íadrá (aß-
Íadrá'iyyin), and the Theosophical philosophers (al-
iláhiyyin) have erred in their explanations of this
station. The signs of the effulgences (tajalliyát) of
creation were mistaken by them for the countenance of

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
the Essence [of God]. Thus they went along with
erroneous
statements
concerning
the
Eternal
Archetypes (a`yan thábita) being in the Essence [of
God] in order to establish His knowledge (praised be
He)13; and with mention of the Uncompounded Reality
in order to establish causality (`illiyya) in the Essence
[of God]; and with mention of the connection between
the Essence [of God] and [His] actions and attributes;
and with the mention of the oneness of Being (wa˙dat
al-wujúd) between the Creator (mújid) and the one who
has gone astray (al-mafqúd). All of this is absolute
heresy (shirk ma˙∂) in the estimation of the family of
God, the Imáms of justice, for God has always been the
All-Knowing without the existence of anything having
form and shape (? — shay'un bi-mithl ma inna-hu kana
shayyár). Just as He does not need for His being alive
the existence of anything other than Him, He also does
not need for His knowledge the existence of objects of
knowledge. And the Essence [of God] continues to be
connected to things. The causation (`illiyya) of created
things is His handiwork (san`ihi) and this is the
[Primal] Will, which God has created through itself by
itself without any fire from the Essence [of God]
touching it. And God has created existent things
through it and it continues. The All-High does not
speak except through it; and the All-High does not give
any indication of its essence (dhátiyyatihá). And God
has not given any sign of His Essence in [the whole of]
creation (al-imkán), for His Being (kaynúnátihi) sets
beings apart from being known, and His Essence
(dhatiyyatihi) prevents essences from being explained.
Verily the relationship of the [Primal] Will to Him is
like the relationship of a verse [of scripture] to God. It
is a relationship that is conferred upon Creation not
upon the Essence [of God], for It is sanctified from
the mention of any indications or relationships or
evidences or signs or stations or effulgences or breezes
relating to It; and that being the case none can know It
except Itself. And such expressions as Oneness of Being
and the mention of the Uncompounded Reality is
witness, in the estimation of the people of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
covenants (ahl al-`uhúd), to its falsity, for He is the one
who there is no-one other than He with Him. How then
is it possible to say any words concerning His Being.
On the contrary, all signs in the world of Láhút,
Jabarút, Malakút and Mulk are possibilities of the
hearts and souls [of human beings] and what has
occurred to their imaginations. All who describe God,
except Himself, have lied and deceived for anything
other than Him is not of Him and cannot speak on His
level and cannot have existence with Him, even the
purest expression of the Oneness of God. And I have
set forth proofs in two thousand manuscripts (fí'l-
nuskha al-alifayn) in explanation of the secret of the
confusion (? - ilhá') of the errors of the words of these
men. The beginning of the saying of such words is the
passage from Muhyi ad-Dín, may God delay his
punishment, such as what he has said in the Fußúß [al-
Óikám}. And this is sheer idolatry (shirk) in the
estimation of those who have inner knowledge (ahl al-
bu†ún).
And in a letter addressed to Mírzá Mu˙ammad Sa`íd of
Zavárih14, the Báb states:
And with regard to the reply concerning the
uncompounded reality, which the philosophers have
mentioned in order to assert that there is Being
between the Creator and the one who has gone astray,
there is no doubt that this is erroneous in the
estimation of one who possesses the musk-like
fragrance of fair-mindedness.
Bahá’u’lláh takes a much milder and more accommodating
attitude towards the monist ideas in Sufism. In the Baghdad
period, He spent some time associating with Sufis in
Sulaymaniyya. He also wrote several works in the Sufi style and
idiom. Among these were the Seven Valleys (Haft Vádí), the
Four Valleys (Chahár Vádí), and the poem Qaßída `Izz
Varqá'iyyih (The Ode of the Dove) which was written in the
style of the famous poem at-Tá'iyya of the Sufi poet Ibn al-
Fári∂. Although Bahá’u’lláh wrote less on overtly Sufi themes in
later years, the Tablet which is the subject of this paper and

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
which was revealed in the Akka period is one of those in which
He returns to some of these themes.
Given the fact that both Shaykh A˙mad al-Ahsá'í and the Báb
had written on the theme of Basí† al-Óaqíqa, it was perhaps
inevitable that someone among his followers would ask
Bahá’u’lláh for His comments on the theme of Mullá Íadrá's
dictum. It would appear from the text that one of Bahá’u’lláh's
followers, named Óusayn, had been asked by someone who was
a follower of Mullá Íadrá to ask for Bahá’u’lláh's comments on
the question of Basí† al-Óaqíqa and this Tablet was revealed in
response to the question.
In this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh again displays his benevolent
attitude towards Sufi themes. He refrains from condemning
Mullá Íadrá's dictum outright, and instead states that those
who have condemned this approach have misunderstood it and
have taken it too literally.
Bahá’u’lláh first explains the nature of the division among
Muslims over Mullá Íadrá's dictum and the associated
concepts. He brings forward verses from the Qur'an in
support of both positions. For those who follow Mullá Íadrá's
position, which He here calls Taw˙íd-i-Wujúdi (existential
oneness), Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Qur'anic verse “All things
perish save [His] face” (28:8, cf. 55:27) and interprets this to
support the position of those who assert that the only reality is
the Divine Reality. For those who opposed Mullá Íadrá's
position, which He here calls Taw˙íd-i-Shuhúdí (oneness in
appearance only), Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Qur'anic verse “We
shall show them Our signs on the horizons and in themselves.”
(41:53) This He interprets as saying that any evidence of union
between the Divinity and creation is only the result of the fact
that the signs of God are apparent in all things.
Having defined the two sides of the conflict, Bahá’u’lláh
asserts that those who have attacked Mullá Íadrá's position
have looked only at the literal meaning of his words rather than
the underlying meaning. He then goes on to give an
interpretation of Mullá Íadrá's dictum in terms of the concept
of the Manifestation of God. This is one of Bahá’u’lláh's most
explicit statements of one of the most interesting and
potentially controversial aspects of His doctrine: His assertion

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
that all of the statements that occur in the scriptures relating
to God (including references to His names and attributes, and
statements about His actions and commands) refer in reality
to the Manifestation of God, since no statement can be made
about the Essence of God, which is unknowable.
The Tablet then continues with Bahá’u’lláh's statement that
there is no benefit to be gained from disputing such points.
Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh asserts that His appearence renders all such
disputation secondary. Whichever side of the argument an
individual is on, his status with God depends only on whether
he accepts or rejects Bahá’u’lláh.
There is not much history available regarding this Tablet. It
is from the Akka period and is evidently addressed to an
individual named Óusayn, but there does not appear to be any
information regarding the identity of this individual. In the
Tablet the contemporary Iranian philosopher Óájí Mullá Hádí
Sabzivárí is referred to and condemned for failing to respond
to the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. The following material from
the manuscript history of the Bahá’í Faith in Ashkhabad by
Ustád `Alí Akbar Banná is of interest in relation to this. In the
course of his account of one of the Iranian Bahá’í emigres in
Ashkhabad, Ustád A˙mad Kuláh-dúz Sabzivárí, Ustád `Alí
Akbar Banná writes:
Prior to his conversion [to the Bahá’í Faith], he kept
company with the mystical philosophers (`urafá).
Despite his illiteracy, he sought to acquire the
illumination of wisdom (˙ikmat) from being in the
presence of Óáji Mullá Hádí, Óakím-i Sabzivárí. After
his acceptance of the Faith, he related: “I went to the
afore-mentioned philosopher (˙akím) and informed him
about this matter. The philosopher fell silent and after
a pause said:
`Whatsoever has been accepted by the emotions of
the heart (wujdán) cannot be opposed by
explanation
So keep your lips from moving in explanation of
these three B of opinion (dhaháb), of gold
(dhahab) and of your religion (madhhab)'“

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
Óájí Mu˙ammad Ri∂á the martyr (killed in Ashkhabad
in 1889) stated: “One day I went to the door of the
house of Óájí Mullá Hádí and gave him a copy of the
Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality. I said to him:
`Study this tablet today and I will come tomorrow to
take it back.' He took the tablet and I left. The next day
I went and took the tablet back, He did not say a word
about it.”15
This historical account would mean that the Tablet of the
Uncompounded Reality must be dated to before 1878, the date
of the death of Sabzivari. Thus this Tablet dates from the first
decade of time in Akka.
The text which is provisionally translated here16 is that
published in the compilation Alvá˙ Mubarakih Ha∂rat
Bahá’u’lláh: Iqtidárát wa chand law˙ digár (usually known as
Iqtidárát, no date, no of publication, pp. 105-116), the
facsimile of a manuscript in the hand-writing of Mishkín-
Qalam, dated Rajab A.H. 1310/January 1893. The text of this
Tablet has also been published in Ma'idih Asmání (vol. 7, pp.
140-7) and by Alexander (Aleksandr) G. Tumanski (d. 1920) in
his translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Kitabe Akdes, Zapiski
Imperatorskoy Academii Nauk S. Petersburg, 8th series, vol. 3,
no. 6, 1899, pp. 61-4. Manuscripts of this Tablet include one in
the collection of manuscripts bought from Mr. Dunlop of the
British Legation in Tehran by the University of Leiden
(Manuscript Or. 4971, section 7, item 1).

NOTES
1. Sirhindi quoted in Burhan Ahmad Faruqi, The Mujjaddid's Concept of
Tawhid, Lahore: Sh. Muhammad Ashraf, repr. 1970, p. 81.
2. In this paper the text for this work is taken from Shaykh Ahmad al-
Ahsá'í's commentary on the work (see note 9), the translation is adapted
from James Morris, The Wisdom of the Throne (Princeton: Princeton
University Press, 1981).
3. In this paper, use has been made of the Persian translation by Ahmad
Ardikání (Tihran: Markaz Nashr Danishgáhí, 1362).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

4. The Arabic text used is that found in unnumbered pages at the back of
the Persian translation by Ghulam-Husayn Áhangí (Tihran: Intishárát
Mawla, 2nd printing 1361).
5. Qumm: Maktabat al-Mustawfi, 1378/1958, vol.1, p. 116-7
6. Morris, Wisdom, pp. 98-9. A similar argument can be found in al-
Mashá`ir, Mash`ar 6 of Manhaj 1 (Persian translation, p. 63).
7. See for example, al-Mabda, pp. 52-3
8. Mu˙ammad Sharíf Al-Jurjání, for example, in his dictionary of religious
terms, Kitab al-Ta`rífát (Beirut: Maktaba Lubnan, 1969) states that al-
basi† can be considered in three ways. The first of these is al-˙aqíqí,
which is “that which has no parts (or divisions, juz`) to it at all, such as
the Creator, exalted be He.” (p. 46).
9. Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsá'í Sharh al-`Arshiyya vol. 1 (Kirman: Sa`ádat, 1361),
pp. 80-1
10. For details of these works and manuscript and published sources for
them, see M. Momen, The Works of Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsá'í (Bahá’í
Studies Bulletin Monograph, no. 1, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1991, nos.
22, 25, and 39, pp. 52, 55-6, 64-5.
11. Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsá'i, Majmu`a ar-Rasá'il, vol. 30, (Kirman: Matba`a
al-Sa`ádat, second printing, n.d.), pp. 131-2
12.Iranian National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection, vol. 86, pp. 95-6. I am
grateful to Stephen Lambden for finding this and the next quotation in
this paper.
13. This refers to the assertion that if Knowledge is an essential attribute
of God, then the Eternal Archetypes of all created things must be
within the Essence of God in order for there to be something that is the
object of God's knowledge.
14. Iranian National Bahá’í Manuscript Collection, vol. 69, p. 422-3
15. Ustád `Alí Akbar Banná, Taríkh `Ishqábád (manuscript in Afnan Library),
p. 314-5
16. I am grateful to Keven Locke for some suggested corrections to the
translation and to Jack McLean for his suggestions for the
improvement of the English text. Others who suggested improvements
and corrections to my commentary include John Walbridge, Nima
Hazini, and Bijan Masumian

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
Provisional Translation
He is God, exalted be He in Might and Greatness!
Concerning what the questioner has asked regarding the
statement
of
the
philosophers
(˙ukamá)
that
“the
uncompounded reality1 is all things”, say: know that what is
intended by “things” in this context (lit. station, maqám) is
none other than being (wujúd) and the perfections (kamalát) of
being in so far as they are existent [and not privative]2; and by
“all” is meant the obtainer (al-wájid).3 This “all” contains no
plurality and no parts. The meaning is that the uncompounded
reality, insofar as it is uncompounded in all respects, is the
obtainer and gatherer of all the infinite and endless
perfections.4 As it has been said: “His works are limitless.”
In the Persian language, it may be said that what the
philosopher means by the word “things” in the afore-mentioned
expression is the perfections of being in so far as these are
existent [and not privative]; and by the word “all”, is meant
possession (dárá'í) that is to say obtaining — the gathering
together
of
all
of
the
limitless
perfections,
in
an
uncompounded manner. They have mentioned similar things
throughout their discourse on the unity (taw˙íd), power
(quwwat), and intensity (shiddat) of existence.
The meaning of the philosopher was not that the Necessarily
Existent [God] has become dispersed among (resolved into, lit.
dissolved into, mun˙al) the innumerable existent things. No!
Praised be He! Exalted is He above that! Even as the
philosophers themselves have stated: “The uncompounded
reality is all things, but is not any one thing.”
And viewed from another aspect, the lights of the
uncompounded reality can be seen in all things. This however is
dependent upon the vision of the seer and the discernment of
the beholder. A penetrating vision (abßar-i ˙adídih) is able to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
see the signs of the Primal Divine Unity in all things, since all
things have been and are the places wherein the Divine Names
are manifested. The Absolute Reality, however, has been and
will continue unceasingly to be sanctified from ascent and
descent, from limitations, connections and relationships,
while “things” exist and appear in the condition of limitations.
Thus it has been said: “The existence of the Necessarily
[Existent] would not be in the full perfection of its power and
intensity, were it possible for It to disperse Itself into the
innumerable existent things, but such a dispersion is not
possible.” There is much to be said about this statement and if
one were to elaborate fully on the meaning of the philosophers,
the matter would become lengthy.5[107] Because the hearts of
the noble are perceived to be subtle and refined, the pen chooses
to confine itself to brevity.
Two stations can be observed in the Divine Unity: Existential
Oneness (tawhíd-i wujúdí), and this is that [station] wherein all
things are negated with a “no” and only the Absolute Reality is
affirmed. This means the existence of nothing is acknowledged
except the Absolute Reality, in the sense that all things, when
compared with Its manifestation and remembrance, have been
and will continue to be absolute nothingness (faná-yi ma˙∂).
“All things perish save the [Divine] Face”,6 which means that
compared with Its existence, nothing else has the capacity for
existence and so no mention of the existence of anything else
should be made. It has been said “God was and there was
nothing else beside Him. And He is now as He always has
been.” And yet it can be seen that things exist and have existed.
The meaning of these words is that, in His court, nothing has,
or has ever had, existence. In the Existential Oneness, “all
things” perish and are nothing and the [Divine] “Face7”, which
is the Absolute Reality, is eternal and unceasing.
[The second station in Divine Unity,] Manifestational Oneness
(taw˙íd-i shuhúdí) is that [station] where the signs of the Primal
Divine Unity, the manifestations of Eternity, and the
effulgences of the light of Singleness can be observed in all
things. Thus in the divine book it is revealed: “We shall show
them Our signs on the horizons and in themselves.”8 [108] In
this station the effulgences of the signs of the uncompounded
reality can be observed and are apparent in all things. The

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
meaning of the philosopher was not that the Absolute Reality is
dispersed
among
the
innumerable
existent
things.
Immeasurably exalted is It from being dispersed in any thing or
from being constrained by any limits or from being associated
with any other thing in creation. It is and continues to be
sanctified from and exalted above all else except Itself. We bear
witness that It is one in Its Essence and one in Its attributes.
And all things are held in the grasp of the power of Him [God]
Who is the sovereign Protector of all the worlds.
In one aspect, all that has been said or will be said refers back
to the first assertion, that the glorified and exalted Absolute
Reality is unknowable, unattainable, and invisible, and this
station has been and will continued to be sanctified from all
references and names, and freed from whatever the people of
creation may understand of It. The path is barred and the quest
denied. For whatever wondrous references and powerful
descriptions have appeared from the tongue and pen refer to
the sublime Word [of God], the most exalted Pen, the primal
Summit, the true Homeland, and the Dawning-place of the
manifestation of mercy. This is [109] the source of Divine
Unity (taw˙íd) and the Manifestation of singleness and
abstraction. In this station, all of the most beautiful Names
[of God] and the most lofty [Divine] Attributes refer to Him
(i.e. the manifestation of God), and do not refer to anything
beyond Him, for, as has been stated, the Unseen Reality is
sanctified from all reference. This locus of the light of Divine
Unity, even though outwardly He is given a name and appears
to be bound by limitations, is in His inner reality
uncompounded (baßí†), sanctified from limitations. This
uncompounded state is relative and attributive (i∂áfí wa nisbí)
and not uncompounded in an absolute sense (min kull al-jihát).
In this station, the meaning is as follows: the Primal Word and
the Dawning-place of the light of Primal Oneness is the
educator of all things and the possessor of innumerable
perfections. For this word in this station, there is an
exposition, hidden in the treasures of purity (infallibility,
`ißmat) and recorded in the guarded tablet, which it is not
appropriate to mention now. Perchance God will produce it.
He is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
And the objections that have been raised by some to the words
of the philosopher are not based on evidence in that the
meaning of his words has not been understood. Truly one
cannot regard it as sufficient to look to the literal (external)
meaning of a statement and then stir up malice. This is except
in case of the words [110] of those who are notorious for their
unbelief and idolatry. The words of such souls are not worthy
of commentary.
The philosophers have been and are of various factions. Some
have derived what they say from the books of the prophets. And
the first who taught divine wisdom (˙ikma) was Idrís, on
account of which he was given his name,9 and he is also called
Hermes. He is called by a different name in each language. He
has given thorough and convincing expositions in every arena
of divine wisdom. And after him Balínús (Apollonius) derived
some of the sciences from the Hermetic tablets. Most of the
philosophers have derived their philosophical and scientific
discoveries from his words and expositions.
Thus this exposition of the philosopher has been and is still
capable of numerous praiseworthy and specific interpretations
(ta'wílát). Some of those who have attained [the Divine
Presence], wishing to protect the Cause of God, have
outwardly refuted (the words of the philosopher). But this
imprisoned servant does not mention anything but that which
is good. Furthermore this day is not the day for human beings
to occupy themselves with understanding such expositions, for
such knowledge and its like has never been and will never be
conducive to making human beings self-sufficient (able to do
without, detached from all save God, ghaní). For example, the
philosopher who spoke these words, [111] were he to be alive,
and also both they who accepted what he said and those who
opposed him over it, all of them would now be in one position:
every single one of them who, after the raising of the call of the
King of Names from the right hand of the luminous spot,
affirmed his belief, is accepted and praiseworthy,10 and all
others are rejected.
How many the souls who considered themselves as being at the
highest pinnacle of reality and mystical knowledge to the extent
that they considered that what issued forth from their mouths

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
was the balance by which [the truth of] human utterance should
be weighed or the astrolabe with which the calendar of the
beginning and the end should be fixed. Despite all this, in the
days of the spring-time of the All-Merciful and the blowing of
the winds of trials, we did not discover in them either
acceptance or constancy. If a soul were today to be omniscient
in all the sciences of the world and yet hesitate in affirming his
belief (lit. speaking the word “yes”11), he would not be
mentioned in the Divine Presence and would be accounted
among the most ignorant of people. The goal of the religious
sciences is to attain knowledge of the Absolute Reality. Any
soul who holds back from this most holy and most mighty
adornment is recorded in the tablets as being of the dead.
O Husayn! This wronged one declares: words need deeds.
Words without deeds are as bees without honey or as trees
without fruit.
Consider the philosopher Sabzivárí12 [112]. Among his verses,
there is a poem, which conveys the following meaning: “No
Moses is alive to hear it, otherwise the chant of `I verily am
God!' exists in every tree [bush].” Such words as these has he
spoken and his meaning is that the true knower of God rises to
such a station that his eyes perceive the lights of the effulgences
of the luminous Source of manifestation (mujallí) and his ears
discern His call from all things. There is no objection to these
words of the philosopher13, but, as we have already stated, this
is the realm of words. In the realm of deeds, however, it can be
seen that although the call of the divine lote-tree has been raised
upon the highest spot in creation in clear and unambiguous
(min ghayr ta'wíl) language and is inviting all beings through the
loftiest of summonses, he has paid no heed whatsoever. For had
he hearkened, he would have arisen to make mention of it.
Either we must say that these were empty words which flowed
from his mouth, or that, for fear for his reputation and love of
his livelihood (lit. his bread), he remained deprived of this
station (of belief) and of testifying to it. Either he understood
and concealed [his belief] or he understood and denied
[Bahá’u’lláh's claim].
Woe to those who waste [113] their whole lives in trying to
establish the truth of their vain imaginings and yet, when the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
lights of the Divine Presence are shining forth from the horizon
of the name of the Self-Subsisting (al-Qayyúm), they remain
deprived thereof. The Cause is in God's hands. He grants what
He wishes to whomever He wishes, and withholds whatever He
desires from whomever He desires. He is to be praised in His
doings and obeyed in His judgements. No God is there but He,
the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.14
In these days, the following was revealed in a tablet: How many
men, attired with a turban [i.e. learned], have held back and
opposed and how many women wearing veils have recognized
and accepted and have said “Praise be to Thee, O God of the
Worlds!” Thus it is that we have made the most exalted among
them to become the most abased, and the most abased to
become the most exalted. Verily your Lord is Ruler over
whatsoever He wishes.
O Óusayn! Say to the questioner: forsake this small pond when
the most mighty ocean is before you. Draw near and drink
from its waters in the name of your Lord, the Knowing, the All-
Informed. By my life! It will cause you to reach a station
wherein you will see in the whole world naught but the
effulgences of the presence of the Ancient of Days and you will
hearken unto the lote-tree which has been elevated upon the
knowledge that there is no but He, the Powerful, the Mighty,
the Omnipotent.
In this day, it is encumbent upon all souls, when they hear the
call from the Dawning-Place of Creation, to leave behind [114]
the people of the world and their opinions and arise and say:
“Yes,15 O my Desire!” and then to say: “I obey! O Beloved of the
Worlds.”
Say: O questioner! Were the sweetness of the wine of the
exposition of your Lord to seize you and were you to recognize
the wisdom and illumination that is in it, you would forsake
this contingent world and arise to assist this wronged exile and
would proclaim: “Praise be to the one who has manifested the
fluid [waters] as the solid [ice],16 and the uncompounded
[reality] as a circumscribed [creation], and the hidden as the
manifest; the one who, were one to behold him in his outward
form, one would find him in the form of a man standing before
the people of tyranny. Were one to contemplate his inner

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa
reality, however, one would recognize him as lord over all who
are in the heavens and earths.”
Listen to what the fire is proclaiming from the luminous lote-
tree raised upon the crimson spot: “O People! Hasten with all of
your hearts to the shore of the Beloved. Thus has the matter
been decided and the decree has issued forth from He who is all-
powerful and trustworthy.”
O questioner! Your words have been mentioned in the Divine
Presence17 in this manifest prison. Thus has been revealed this
tablet from the horizon of which shines forth the sun of the
benevolence of your Lord the mighty, the all-praised. [115]
Know its true worth and value it greatly. This would be best
for you, if you are among those who have true knowledge. We
ask of God that He confirm you in His Cause and make
mention of you and decree for you that which will profit you
in this world and the next. He verily answers the prayers of
those who call upon Him and He is the most merciful of the
merciful.
O servant! Were you to be attracted by the breezes of the
utterances of the Lord of Names and were you to seek
illumination from the lights of the [Divine] Face18, which shine
forth from the Dawning-place of eternity, you would turn your
face towards the all-highest Horizon.
Say: O Creator of the heavens and Lord of Names! I ask You by
Your name through which You have opened the door of meeting
with You to Your creatures and have caused the sun of Your
bounty to shine forth upon those who are in Your kingdom,
that You may cause me to be sincere in Your love, detached
from all save You, arising for Your service, looking towards
Your Face, and speaking in praise of You. O Lord! assist me in
the days of the Manifestation of Your Self and the Dawning-
place of Your Cause, such that I may burn away the clouds
[that obscure You] by Your grace and favour and may consume
the veils [that separate me from You] with the fire of Your love.
O Lord! You are strong and I am weak; You are rich [116] and I
am poor. I ask You, by the ocean of Your bounty, that You do
not cause me to be deprived of Your grace and Your Love. All
things bear witness to Your greatness, Your glory, Your power
and Your might. Guide and assist me through (lit. take my hand

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
in the hand of) Your will and save me by Your sovereignty.
Write down then for me what You have written down for Your
confidants, those who have near access to You and are faithful
to Your Covenant and Testament, who soar in the atmosphere
of Your will and speak Your praise among Your creatures.
Verily You are the Powerful, the Protector, the Lofty, the
Mighty, the Generous.19

NOTES
1. Baßí† al-Haqíqa. Baßít is here translated as “uncompounded”. It has been
translated by James Morris as “simple” (The Wisdom of the Throne, pp.
). Although this is technically a correct translation in the philosophical
sense of the word as something that is uncompounded, I felt that the
word “simple” has too many other meanings in common use and would
be confusing. The translator of the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh (p. 61) has
translated the term as “elementary”. There is also the fact that this
word is being used in a genitive construction and not adjectivally (i.e.
the Arabic may be rendered literally as “the uncompounded of reality”).
The root of the word baßí† means “to spread out” or “to stretch out”,
and in this sense of something spread out, I was tempted to translate
the phrase as “the field of reality”. This would render the passage “the
field of reality is all things” which has a striking resonance with modern
physics in the sense that all physical reality is in modern physics
considered to consist of electro-magnetic fields in which fluxes occur.
This would however, apart from being anachronistic also be a
departure from the sense in which the original author Mullá Sadrá
intended this passage. His meaning was derived from the philosophical
notion that all reality is compounded and that the only uncompounded
reality is God.
2. i.e. those perfections that are positive and existent, rather than those
which are negative and privative.
3. This is a somewhat unusual use of the word wájid, which derives from the
root meaning “to get” or “obtain”. According to Sayyid Ja`far Sajjádí,
(Farhang-i Ma`árif-i Islámí, Tehran, 1373, 3rd vol., p. 2090, citing Shar˙-
i Kalamát-i Bábá Táhir) wájid is used by Bábá ˇáhir `Uryán to refer to
someone who has emptied himself of all vestige of self and has detached
himself from all save God.
4. The basic language of the text changes from Arabic to Persian at this
point, although there continue to be numerous Arabic phrases and
passages in what follows.
5. These numbers refer to the page numbers in the original text in
Iqtidarát.

Law˙ Basí† al-Óaqíqa

6. Qur'án 28:88; cf. its corollary 55:26-7. Also associated with this concept
of the Face or Countenance of God is 2:115, which states that:
Wheresoever you turn, there is the Face of God. These verses are taken
in the Islamic mystical and metaphysical tradition to mean that when
one turns one’s face towards (tawajjuh - derived from the same Arabic
root as wajh) God, then everything else in Creation becomes as
nothing.
7. Qur'án, see note 5
8. Qur'án 41:53
9. The name Idrís can be considered to derive from the root “d-r-s” which
means “to teach”.
10. Lit. Attained to the word “Balá” (lit. “Yes”). A reference to Qur'án
7:172, where, in the pre-eternal Covenant, to God's question “Am I not
your Lord?” The children of Adam are made to reply “Yes (Balá).” In
other words, Bahá’u’lláh is saying that were Mullá Sadrá together with
his supporters and opponents all to be alive in Bahá’u’lláh's day, they
would all be in the position of having to face the challenge of
Bahá’u’lláh's claim.
11. See note 9
12. Mullá Hádí Sabzivárí (d. 1878) the most prominent of the Iranian
philosophers of the nineteenth century. An English translation of one
of his major works is available The Metaphysics of Sabzavárí (trans. T.
Izutsu and M. Mohaghegh, New York, 1977).
13. Indeed Bahá’u’lláh himself says much the same in one of the prayers for
the fast: “...this Revelation - a Revelation the potency of which hath
caused every tree to cry out what the Burning Bush had aforetime
proclaimed unto Moses, Who conversed with Thee” (Prayers and
Meditations, no. 85, p. 144).
14. This paragraph is paraphrased and quoted by Bahá’u’lláh in the Words of
Paradise (Kalimát Firdawsiyyih), Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 61
15. See note 9
16. Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations, no. 38, p. 49
17. lit. “before the Face”; a Qur'ánic allusion, see note 5
18. Qur'ánic reference, see note 5
19. This paper was originally completed 1 August 1995. It was edited on the
basis of the suggestions made by the individuals named in note 16 and
an additional paragraph drawn from the history of Ustád `Alí Akbar
Banná was added, 18 June 2000. Some slight further modifications were
made preparatory to this publication in 2010.


Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
A Comparative Study of Hinduism and the Bahá’í
Faith
Anupam Premanand
There is a unique commonality of the Eternal nature of
Religion as the foundational principle of both the Hinduism
and the Bahá’í Faith which is to say the ‘Sanatana Dharma’1 and
‘the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the
future’ respectively. Thus it’s no hazard that the Hindus are so
receptive to the Message of the Bahá’í Faith.
Dashavatara are a series of ten most prominent Avatars or
the Manifestations of God of Hinduism in Indian sub-
continent.
This study is concerned with the correspondence of
Dashavatara and the concept of Progressive Revelation from
the Bahá’í Teachings. Both Hinduism in its practices and the
Bahá’í Faith in its unifying expressions encourage within it a
great diversity of life styles and aspirations contributing richly
to the ennobling and advancement of the civilization.
Hinduism
Hinduism
o Evolved from the Vedic religion of ancient India.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
o Principally, a grand conglomeration of diverse but
essentially compatible set of philosophy, beliefs and
religious practices.
o Carrier of the oldest known civilization, still
practicing ancient habits.
o Real name “Sanatana Dharma,” meaning ‘The Eternal
Law’
o Believes in Eternal Unknowable Creator ‘Brahman’
and His emanations of gods and goddesses and
Avatars: The Manifestations.
o Spiritual Liberation, attaining of Moksha is the final
aim of life.
o Avatars are sent to help humanity in this final aim
whenever humanity slips from its divine course.
o Realization of this Greater Truth helps Hindus stay
tolerant (appreciative of its diversity of beliefs and
practices).
o World’s largest body of scriptures in comparison
with Bahá’í literature belongs to Hinduism. Divided
in two basic categories of Shruti and Smriti, literally
“That which is Heard” and “Remembered” respectively
akin to the Revelation and Tradition in Semitic
Faiths.
o Shruti includes Vedas, Bhagavad-Gita and Smriti
includes epics like Ramayana, Mahabharata and the
scriptures such as Puranas and Upanishads2.
o Study of Hinduism is important for the Bahá’ís, since
they:
o Form a very receptive group of people to Teach.
o Number over a billion, the 3rd largest faith in the
world.
o Have traveled and migrated globally and are found
in receptive large numbers as early inhabitants in
Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Indonesia,

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Malaysia, Singapore, Mauritius, Fiji, Surinam,
Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago in addition to
almost all the western countries especially in UK,
US and Australia.
In this thesis, Dashavatara is represented by Sri Krishna and
His Words principally through Bhagavad-Gita as the most
representative source of teachings of Hinduism. Progressive
Revelation is represented principally through the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The concept of God in Hinduism and the Bahá’í Faith
God is the objective of knowledge and devotion in the Bahá’í
Faith and Hinduism. Bahá’u’lláh in His revealed daily prayer
states:
I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me
to know Thee and to worship Thee.3
Sri Krishana in Bhagavad-Gita states:
And whoso thus discerneth Me in all, and all in Me, I
never let him go … because he knows and worships Me
…4
Looking at the nature of God expressed in both Hindu and
the Bahá’í literature, Arjuna in Bhagavad-Gita addressing the
Absolute Divine Reality of Sri Krishna declares:
Thou art Parabrahma! The High Abode! The Great
Purification! Thou art God Eternal, All-creating, Holy,
First, Without beginning! … neither gods nor men Nor
demons comprehend Thy mystery Made manifest,
Divinest! Thou Thyself Thyself alone dost know, Maker
Supreme! Master of all the living! Lord of Gods! King
of the Universe!5
And as stated by Bahá’u’lláh:
…no tongue, however deep its wisdom, can befittingly
magnify Thy name, nor can the bird of the human
heart, however great its longing, ever hope to ascend
into the heaven of Thy majesty and knowledge.6

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Arjuna declaring his helplessness in knowing the Divine Reality
wonders:
How shall I learn, Supremest Mystery! To know Thee,
though I muse continually?7
And Bahá’u’lláh states:
He is, and hath ever been, veiled in the ancient eternity
of His Essence, and will remain in His Reality
everlastingly hidden from the sight of men.8
Arjuna continues his wonderment stating:
Under what form of Thine unnumbered forms Mayst
Thou be grasped?9
And Bahá’u’lláh states:
Far be it from His glory that human tongue should
adequately recount His praise, or that human heart
comprehend His fathomless mystery.10
Thus, we can make out that the Hindu and the Bahá’í view of
God is one and the same, indicating both of them having
emanated from a Same Source, and as attested by Sri Krishna
and Bahá’u’lláh, the God is the Source thereof.
But one needs to be convinced of the existence of God in
order to believe firmly of the process of the Revelations.. which
is, in my understanding is a bottom up approach, the only
feasible possibility of the belief and knowing God, it’s not the
top down approach. We find the signs of God in the created
things and find the greatest amplification of those signs in the
Manifestations of God and so through His teachings believe in
the existence of a Supreme One Who is the Source of the
Revelations.
But as per ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, for intuitive people there is no need
of a rational proof or the arguments of the existence of God
which is necessary sometimes in order to clarify the conception
of God at human intellectual level.
The Foundation and the Center of progressive revelation is
the God. It is God Who is revealed progressively in order that

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
human can know Him. All things in a Faith revolves around the
concept of the God. But how approachable is the God?
Bahá’u’lláh states that God is immensely exalted above any
possible human conception and would remain so. Humans
can’t know Him but He is aware of everything. As said earlier
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that God, the Creator can essentially know the
created and not vice-versa.
The Nature of Man in the Bahá’í Faith and Hinduism
The Revelation pertaining to human beings has to be
according to its nature and concomitant need. Thus in order
to investigate the Revelation from God, it is worthwhile to
investigate human nature attuned to which the Divine
Revelation is revealed in its objective evolutionary education.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states in Paris Talks:
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher
nature and his material or lower nature. In one he
approaches God, in the other he lives for the world
alone…. If a man's Divine nature dominates his human
nature, we have a saint… But if, on the contrary, he
rejects the things of God and allows his evil passions to
conquer him, then he is no better than a mere animal.”
And it is the precise function of the Manifestations of
God to encourage and evolve the Divine nature in
human being.11
In Bhagavad-Gita, all beings, creatures, things, humans and
human tendencies whether noble or wretched have arisen from
God. Comprehending the “truth of truths” is to understand the
‘mystic Majesty of God’ which in the Words of Bahá’u’lláh is
“…that the Seal the Kingdom is God’s may be stamped upon the
brow of all its people”12. It means, in my understanding, that
the people of the world need to understand and realize that
everything is under God’s power and His Rule. In other words,
to realize the ‘mystic Majesty of God’ as stated by Sri Krishna:
Whatever Natures be to mortal men distributed, those
natures spring from Me! Intellect, skill, enlightenment,
endurance, self-control, truthfulness, equability, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
grief or joy of soul, and birth and death, and
fearfulness, and fearlessness, and shame, and honour,
and sweet harmlessness, and peace which is the same
whate'er befalls, and mirth, and tears, and piety and
thrift, and wish to give, and will to help,- all cometh of
My gift! The Seven Chief Saints13, the Elders Four, the
Lordly Manus14 set- Sharing My work- to rule the
worlds, these too did I beget; And Rishis, Pitris,
Manus, all, by one thought of My mind; Thence did
arise, to fill this world, the races of mankind;
Wherefrom who comprehends My Reign of mystic
Majesty — That truth of truths — is thenceforth linked
in faultless faith to Me:15
Again Sri Krishna states:
Sattwan, Rajas, and Tamas, so are named the qualities
of
Nature,
“Soothfastness,”
“Passion,”
and
“Ignorance.” These three bind down The changeless
Spirit in the changeful flesh.16
Thus, Satva and Tamas, in agreement to the Bahá’í teachings,
are the divine and animal nature of human beings respectively.
It is the Rajas, the passions, the emotions which bind them to
whatever they are focused upon whether they be noble things or
lower things thus giving rise to happiness or unhappiness as a
consequence of their attachment.
The nature of Soul
Man, the human, has a soul which is unknowable and
indestructible. Humans have two tendencies: to incline
towards the base and to rise upwards the lofty. Age to age this
lift towards lofty is slowed and humans start to fall again.
Then there comes another Force which empowers him in lifting
himself towards the greater heights of knowledge and
civilization. This is the view of the human nature according to
Hindu thought. Soul in Bhagavad-Gita is indestructible and
continues after human’s physical death. The destined
condition of the soul after death depends upon the merit of
one’s deeds before on this earth. Thus here, the Bahá’í Faith and
Hinduism match their view and understanding of the life after

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
death. This is to be so since in both of them religion is eternal
and the same truth spoken differently through different sages
and prophets again and again in differing conditions of
society progressively.
On deathless continuity of Spirit and physical death being
just a change of condition, Lord Krishna states:
…when one layeth His worn-out robes away, and,
taking new ones, sayeth, “These will I wear to-day!” So
putteth by the spirit Lightly its garb of flesh, and
passeth to inherit a residence afresh.17
Some of the qualities of the soul as stated by Sri Krishna:
I say to thee weapons reach not the Life; Flame burns it
not, waters cannot o'erwhelm, nor dry winds wither it.
Impenetrable,
unentered,
unassailed,
unharmed,
untouched,
Immortal,
all-arriving,
stable,
sure,
Invisible,
ineffable,
by
word
and
thought
uncompassed, ever all itself, Thus is the Soul declared!18
Thus in other words understandably, physical bodies do not
last for ever. After a span of few years, physical bodies
disintegrate and the soul associated with this physical body
passes to the New World and gets possessed of “new bodies”.
This is not to say that it’s the physical reincarnation19 but a
new form of existence for the soul, a new condition by which
the soul stays in the higher realm and continues to live in an
higher plane of existence and performs the function it is
assigned. This new condition is a condition of indescribable
joy which is an inherent outcome of this existence of higher
understanding and consciousness. Here too there is a function
as on the earth that the soul is subject to. Bahá’u’lláh states this
function and the condition in which this function can be
assigned to a soul.
Know thou, of a truth, that if the soul of man hath
walked in the ways of God, it will, assuredly, return
and be gathered to the glory of the Beloved. By the
righteousness of God! It shall attain a station such as
no pen can depict, or tongue describe. The soul that
hath remained faithful to the Cause of God, and stood
unwaveringly firm in His Path shall, after his

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
ascension, be possessed of such power that all the
worlds which the Almighty hath created can benefit
through him.20
Soul is made of elements which are not physical. If it would
be physical it would be manifesting physical properties of
being touched, being disintegrable, visible or measurable. But
since it has none of these properties, it is not earthly. It is
untouched, stable and eternal, and cannot be measured by
thoughts and words. Same ideas of Invisible, ineffable, by
word and thought uncompassed, ever all itself, Thus is the Soul
declared! are expressed by Bahá’u’lláh some five thousand years
later establishing the essential oneness of the revealed Word of
Avataras or the Manifestations of God, saying..
Know, verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly
gem whose reality the most learned of men hath failed
to grasp, and whose mystery no mind, however acute,
can ever hope to unravel. It is the first among all
created things to declare the excellence of its Creator,
the first to recognize His glory, to cleave to His truth,
and to bow down in adoration before Him.21
Soul being the sign of God, all its declarations about himself
are in reality the declarations of the excellence of its Creator.
In words of Sri Krishna the soul declared its attributes and in
the writings of Bahá’u’lláh this declaration is accomplished
with its objective in declaring the ‘excellence of its Creator’.
Soul is that pristine entity which proclaims in loudest terms
the existence of God, reveals His attributes and manifests the
sublime nature of His creation. But as Bahá’u’lláh, according
to Himself, is the most recent of Avatara or Manifestations of
God, He has brought an added spiritual knowledge according
to the forthcoming maturity of humans today. But, are people
mature enough to understand the nature of the Soul? Has
Bahá’u’lláh, therefore, revealed in full measure the nature of
soul and its condition after physical death of human? And
again as stated by Bahá’u’lláh:
Verily I say, the human soul is, in its essence, one of the
signs of God, a mystery among His mysteries. It is one
of the mighty signs of the Almighty, the harbinger that

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
proclaimeth the reality of all the worlds of God. Within
it lieth concealed that which the world is now utterly
incapable of apprehending….22
Then He continues stating…
Verily I say, the human soul is exalted above all egress
and regress. It is still, and yet it soareth; it moveth, and
yet it is still. It is, in itself, a testimony that beareth
witness to the existence of a world that is contingent,
as well as to the reality of a world that hath neither
beginning nor end.23
Soul declares the contingency of earthly realm but at the
same time demonstrates through its attributes the reality of an
absolute existence: a world that has neither beginning nor end.
Each human is a soul and possesses a body and according to
both the Hindu and the Bahá’í beliefs, the condition of the soul
after physical death depends upon the human actions before on
this earthly plane. But as different humans have got different
states of existence on earth, there is going to be differing states
of soul’s existence after. And if it’s so, then after the physical
death do souls enter an absolute realm? Stating on this crucial
theme, Bahá’u’lláh says:
When the soul attaineth the Presence of God, it will
assume the form that best befitteth its immortality and
is worthy of its celestial habitation. Such an existence
is a contingent and not an absolute existence,
inasmuch as the former is preceded by a cause, whilst
the latter is independent thereof. Absolute existence is
strictly confined to God, exalted be His glory. Well is
it with them that apprehend this truth.24
This also clarifies what Bahá’u’lláh says it will assume the
form that best befitteth its immortality and is worthy of its
celestial habitation; what Sri Krishna says that So putteth by
the spirit Lightly its garb of flesh, and passeth to inherit a
residence afresh.
Thus, the Celestial habitation has a form.. as the spirit
putteth its garb of flesh, and passesth to inherit a residence
afresh.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Thus absolute existence is not for the soul and its journey
towards God, but only for God.
And the form which the soul takes after the physical death
depends upon its condition on this earth before the physical
death, thus is preceded by a cause and so it is not an absolute
existence. And on the theme of assuming of form, exactly same
idea and concept of the condition and forms the soul attains
after its separation of body is narrated by Lord Krishna
revealing…
…And, at the hour of death, he that hath meditated Me
alone, in putting off his flesh, comes forth to Me,
enters into My Being- doubt thou not! But, if he
meditated otherwise at hour of death, in putting off
the flesh, he goes to what he looked for, Kunti's Son!25
Because the Soul is fashioned to its like.26
Sri Krishna states: the Soul is fashioned to its like. And
Bahá’u’lláh states: “it will assume the form that best befitteth
its immortality and is worthy of its celestial habitation.”
Dashavatara
The term Dashavatara is made of two words Dash and
Avatara. In Sanskrit, Dash signifies the numerical value of ten,
and Avatara, a noun from infinitive Avataran, meaning the
one who descents i.e. the descent of Divinity. Thus the term
Dashavatara, the ten divine descents, are generally referred in
Hinduism as the descent of Vishnu. Vishnu descends in ten (or
more) different forms for the maintenance of the Universe i.e.
the protection of virtuous and destruction of the evil; thus
establishing the realm of Dharma i.e. righteousness. This group
of sequential descents of the divinity, each descent having a
different form as conceptualized in Hinduism is known as
Avatara.
The Blessed Lord27 said…
Yadhaa yadhaa hi Dharmasya Glaanir bhavathi
Bhaaratha/

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Abhyuthaanam
Adharmasya
Tad
Aatmaanam
srujaamyaham//
Paritranaaya
Saadhoonaam
Vinaasaaya
cha
Dushkritaam/
Dharma Samsthapanaarthaayaya Sambhavami yugE
yugE//
Meaning…
When Righteousness declines, O Bharata!28 when
wickedness is strong, I rise, from age to age, and take
visible shape, and move a man with men, succouring
the good, thrusting the evil back, And setting Virtue
on her seat again.29
This verse from Bhagavad-Gita emphatically states the fact
that from age to age God manifests Himself. These are the
Words of Sri Krishna stating the inevitable rise of the Avatara
in every age. Dashavatara are the ten Manifestations of Vishnu.
They are the most important manifestations of these Avataras.
The list of ten Avataras is found in Garuda Purana. There are
other lists like that of 25 Avataras of Bhagavat Purana, but
these 10 Dashavatara are most famous and are the greatest
Avataras who had the maximum influence. Out of the 10, the 9
Avataras so far are:
o Matsya (fish)
o Kurma (tortoise)
o Varaha (boar)
o Narasimha (half-man, half-lion)
o Vamana (dwarf man)
o Parashurama (Rama with an axe)
o Rama (the embodiment of Righteousness)
o Krishna (the supreme Teacher)
o Gautama Buddha (the enlightened One)…respectively.

And …

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
o Kalki (time, the Eternal or the destroyer of foulness,
quarrel)
As per the common Hindu thought, the tenth Avatara Kalki is
yet to manifest Himself.
Dashavatara, the ten Avataras of Lord Vishnu, are meant for
establishing ‘Dharma’30, whenever ‘adharma’31 occurs. The
scientific facts behind Dashavatara are now under research, as
it seems that these ten Avataras represent the evolution of
mankind.
Counseling a wise man to meditate upon, Garuda Purana32
mentions the ten Avataras in the context of treatment of a sick
person by the relatives:
Relatives, coming near the diseased, should not mourn.
My holy name should be remembered and meditated
upon repeatedly. The Fish, the Tortoise, the Boar, the
Man-lion, the Dwarf, Paraśurâma, Râma, Krishna,
Buddha, and also Kalkî33. These ten names should
always be meditated upon by the wise. Those who recite
them near the diseased are called relatives.34
Dashavatara explains and elaborates the Hindu Avataras and
gives the sense of evolutionary stages of humanity in which
each of the Avataras have a form in conformity to that stage of
mankind’s physical, intellectual and spiritual condition.
4 Yuga35 and Avataras in each one of these Yugas:
The following are the 10 principle Avataras of Lord Vishnu in 4
Yugas:
o 4 Avataras in Krita Yuga (Matsya, Kurma, Varaha
and Narasimha)
o 3 Avataras in Treta Yuga (Vamana, Parasurama and
Sri Rama)
o 2 Avataras in Dwaapara Yuga (Krishna and Buddha)
o 1 Avatara in Kali Yuga (the Kalki, yet to be)

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
To rephrase, these are the Dashavatara who in my opinion
represent the continuum of human evolution on the planet.
They represent the manifestation of the monotheistic God on
earth among people from age to age. Thus Hinduism is
essentially a monotheism recognizing the Supremacy of
Brahman, the Eternal and all the gods and beings and everything
else is lower to that. And these Ten are the most prominent
representative ones out of the innumerable one which are sent
as the divine educators of humanity from the time immemorial.
The several mythological stories and anecdotes are later
additions and it’s but an effort to conceptualize their presence
to the then masses on Indian Sub-Continent. Even though
Avataras would be innumerable, these ten representatives, the
most prominent ones, the never ending eternal process of the
descent of divinity shall continue as it has been so. This is seen
by the Avatara coming among the humanity as ‘one among
themselves’, their physical form and characteristics represent
the physical form and the characteristics of then humanity in
general. Since they are the self same Spirit and not the body.
(That’s perhaps one of the reasons why as Bahá’ís we don’t
portray the physical form of a Manifestation.) And as most
evident in evolutionary science which says that the human life
began most probably in the sea as that of the Fish leading to
amphibian life as that of a Tortoise or Turtle thereby to the life
of the land, then being a mammal as that of the Wild Boar
evolving into an Animal Man as that of The Lion Man, half
man and half animal. This then leading to the early man of
short stature The Dwarf and then to the savage man of Rama
with Axe further leading to the complete man being the Rama
with a Bow thereby again manifesting as a sophisticated
supreme Teacher in form of Krishna evolving into the gentle
and compassionate enlightened souls that of Buddha which
seems to complete one cycle of human evolution finally leading
to the Kalki. Thus we see that all of these Avataras were always
sent in their form conducive to the state of mankind then,
which in an approximation represents the state of mankind
then under evolution which is further prophesized ending with
Kalki ushering an era of peace and righteousness.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The Progressive Revelation
Progressive Revelation means the nature of God being
progressively revealed to humanity so that humanity as
individuals and as a whole is able gradually to identify itself
with that Great Divine Being. And this identification happens
by the example of the Manifestation of God. Bahá’u’lláh says:
O Salman! The door of the knowledge of the Ancient
Being hath ever been, and will continue for ever to be,
closed in the face of men. No man's understanding shall
ever gain access unto His holy court. As a token of His
mercy, however, and as a proof of His loving-kindness,
He hath manifested unto men the Day Stars of His
divine guidance, the Symbols of His divine unity, and
hath ordained the knowledge of these sanctified Beings
to be identical with the knowledge of His own Self.
Whoso recognizeth them hath recognized God. Whoso
hearkeneth to their call, hath hearkened to the Voice of
God, and whoso testifieth to the truth of their
Revelation, hath testified to the truth of God Himself.
Whoso turneth away from them, hath turned away
from God, and whoso disbelieveth in them, hath
disbelieved in God. Every one of them is the Way of
God that connecteth this world with the realms above,
and the Standard of His Truth unto every one in the
kingdoms of earth and heaven. They are the
Manifestations of God amidst men, the evidences of
His Truth, and the signs of His glory.36
He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men
can never be known except through His Manifestation,
and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of
the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own
Person.37
They only differ in the intensity of their revelation, and
the comparative potency of their light. Even as He hath
revealed: “Some of the Apostles We have caused to excel
the others.”38

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the
light of Divine Revelation hath been vouchsafed unto
men in direct proportion to their spiritual capacity.39
The seeming difference in the Divine Message and customs,
traditions often leads to gradations of the different prophets
and ranking of their Message by the adherents of the respective
religions thinking their Faith to be superior or better
Revelation of Truth than the other. And also that the revelation
of these Manifestations differ because they are sent for people
of differing capacities adapted to differing conditions. Upon
this, Bahá’u’lláh states:
That a certain attribute of God hath not been
outwardly manifested by these Essences of Detachment
doth in no wise imply that they who are the Day Springs
of God's attributes and the Treasuries of His holy
names did not actually possess it. Therefore, these
illuminated Souls, these beauteous Countenances have,
each and every one of them, been endowed with all the
attributes of God, such as sovereignty, dominion, and
the like, even though to outward seeming they be shorn
of all earthly majesty....40
So, there is no point in considering one Manifestation being
superior in worldly terms to others, because as per Bahá’u’lláh
each one of Them are endowed with all the attributes of God
whether manifest or not.
Often the people of various religions do not actively
anticipate a new divine educator amongst themselves and they
say that their prophet or the Messenger of God of their parents
and forefathers is the final one and that there is no Revelation
after theirs. The Bahá’í Faith claims that the Revelations are a
seamless everlasting process and would continue to be in the
form of new revelations for the education of mankind. Upon
this, Bahá’u’lláh states:
Thou art surely aware of their idle contention, that all
Revelation is ended, that the portals of Divine mercy
are closed, that from the day springs of eternal holiness
no Sun shall rise again, that the Ocean of everlasting
bounty is forever stilled, and that out of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Tabernacle of ancient glory the Messengers of God have
ceased to be made manifest.41
This seems true within the dispensation of a Manifestation but
also for the whole Eternal Progression of the Revelation
indicating:
In like manner, if the Sun of Truth were suddenly to
reveal, at the earliest stages of its manifestation, the
full measure of the potencies which the providence of
the Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of
human understanding would waste away and be
consumed; for men's hearts would neither sustain the
intensity of its revelation, nor be able to mirror forth
the radiance of its light.42
But Prophets of God have always been sent in all times,
places and under all conditions, perhaps even to the worlds
unknown to us perhaps in distant parts of the universe, the
spiritual worlds including those after human physical life and
many more. Here Bahá’u’lláh states:
Through His potency the Trees of Divine Revelation
have yielded their fruits, every one of which hath been
sent down in the form of a Prophet, bearing a Message
to God's creatures in each of the worlds whose number
God, alone, in His all-encompassing Knowledge, can
reckon.43
Synthesis of Dashavatara and the Progressive
Revelation
In Bhagavad-Gita, in spite of several teachings and counsels,
Arjuna is reluctant to go to the war for justice and is not able
to recognize the Lordship of Sri Krishna. Then as a final resort,
Lord Krishna shows His Viraat Vishwaswarupa Darshan (the
Great Magnificent Universal Form)44 to Arjuna. Thereupon
being shaken from His core, Arjuna recognizes the Truth of
God and thus requests Sri Krishna to come back to His
ordinary human form since the Great Magnificent Universal
Form is difficult to bear. (Such stories narrated from the life

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
stories of many of the Manifestation including that of Sri
Krishna and Bahá’u’lláh .)
For not being able to bear longer than a few moments,
Arjuna states:
In gentleness on me!
Good is it I did see
This unknown marvel of Thy Form! But fear
Mingles with joy! Retake,
Dear Lord! for pity's sake
Thine earthly shape, which earthly eyes may bear!
Be merciful, and show
The visage that I know;
Let me regard Thee, as of yore, arrayed
With disc and forehead-gem,45
With mace and anadem46,
Thou that sustainest all things! Undismayed
Let me once more behold
The form I loved of old,
Thou of the thousand arms and countless eyes!
This frightened heart is fain
To see restored again
My Charioteer, in Krishna's kind disguise.47
Each one of this Dashavataras have been made to come down
on earth in the form that the people could bear and which
would resemble the known form existing among them. Going
further perhaps in speculation that thus possibly during the
time when man was mostly an inhabitant of jungle and forests
in prehistoric savage form, the form of Parashuram (Rama with
Axe) came forth. Even perhaps when man was in the physical
form of a sea creature that an Avatara had come to teach them
something in onward way of progress. So, during the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
thousands of years from now, we would not have been able to
imagine that state and so stories and mythologies with
contemporary contexts have been build around the Matsya
Avatara of Vishnu, around Kurma Avatara (the Turtle),
around Varaha Avatara (the Wild Boar) and so on. Even the
companions of Rama Avatara, who were said to be the
monkeys, in the war with Ravana, could be another species of
humans perhaps like Neanderthals and who later got extinct,
and they are described as gentle monkeys. Or they would just be
another group of humans unknown to the former and are not
termed humans, even though just a few centuries ago that dark
skinned from Africa were not considered human by some white
skinned colonial rulers and slave traders. Or it could be other
human group with somewhat different physical features. For
scientists have put forward the theories of coming together of
Homo Sapiens and the other species of humans not very long
ago. But coming back to our discussion, Bahá’u’lláh states that
the Prophets and the Messengers of God have come to humanity
from its inception. That man exists from his origin and
foundation as man, and that his species has existed from all
eternity...48 perhaps even before the existence of the earth.
And what was the objective of the coming of these ‘Day
Springs of eternal holiness’ and how mankind has benefited
from their appearance, and what have we learnt since they have
come to us from the very beginning of existence?
Bahá’u’lláh states one vital role of the Manifestations of
God in educating humans:
For were it not for those effulgent Lights that shine
above the horizon of His Essence, the people would
know not their left hand from their right, how much
less could they scale the heights of the inner realities or
probe the depths of their subtleties!49
In Hindu line of Avataras, there itself is the progressive
revelation. For each of these Avatara has come bringing an
additional necessity from that which was the past. Providing
the necessary spiritual nourishment and its social application
in the form of laws and practices according to the needs of the
time they manifest. Most Hindus believe in Krishna but they
do also in Rama. For they know inherently that it is the same

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Message with two versions. Rama taught the obedience in spite
of prevailing injustice. And in seeming opposition, Krishna
taught to fight for justice in spite of seeming disobedience.
And this verifying and in conformity with the teaching of
Bahá’í Faith that each Manifestation of God of the age reveals
the teachings in conformity with that age and since situations
and times change, these laws are either abrogated or new ones
are created by Him.
As repeated by Bahá’u’lláh:
Were He to decree as lawful the thing which from time
immemorial had been forbidden, and forbid that which
had, at all times, been regarded as lawful, to none is
given the right to question His authority.50
The theme of repeated timeless coming of the Avatara is also
pronounced in Hinduism. Evidently in Bhagavad-Gita when Sri
Krishna having said that He is unborn and taught the
knowledge of Yoga, the Union with the Divine, to Vivaswata,
the son of the Sun god, who preceded time itself till present,
perplexed Arjuna asks:
Thy birth, dear Lord, was in these later days. And
bright Vivaswata's preceded time! How shall I
comprehend this thing thou sayest, “From the
beginning it was I who taught?51
Thereupon Sri Krishna makes the reply as an Eternal
Manifestation of God, the Sanatana Avatara comparable to
defining Progressive Revelation saying:
Manifold the renewals of my birth have been, Arjuna!
and of thy births, too! But mine I know, and thine thou
knowest not, O Slayer of thy Foes! Albeit I be Unborn,
undying, indestructible, the Lord of all things living;
not the less- by Maya, by my magic which I stamp on
floating Nature-forms, the primal vast- I come, and go,
and come. When Righteousness Declines, O Bharata!
when wickedness is strong, I rise, from age to age, and
take visible shape, and move a man with men,
Succouring the good, thrusting the evil back, And
setting Virtue on her seat again.52

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
As mentioned before by Bahá’u’lláh, many of the memories
and records of the earlier Manifestations of God are lost in the
dust of time and as repeated by Sri Krishna saying:
Manifold the renewals of my birth have been, Arjuna!
and of thy births, too! But mine I know, and thine thou
knowest not.
And also that the process of coming and going of the
Avatara is eternal. Whenever there is a spiritual decadence in
the world and the loss of moral and ethics, that the spirit of
God is born in the form of an Avatara to guide humanity on
the path of righteousness. But how often it happens that the
people who have sought the coming of the Avatara have
themselves turned against Him when He comes fulfilling the
prophecies and anticipation in order to reestablish the reign of
Virtue. Bahá’u’lláh states:
Behold, how the divers peoples and kindreds of the
earth have been waiting for the coming of the Promised
One. No sooner had He, Who is the Sun of Truth, been
made manifest, than, lo, all turned away from Him,
except them whom God was pleased to guide… That
hour is now come. The world is illumined with the
effulgent glory of His countenance. And yet, behold
how far its peoples have strayed from His path! None
have believed in Him except them who, through the
power of the Lord of Names, have shattered the idols of
their vain imaginings and corrupt desires and entered
the city of certitude.53
As repeated by Sri Krishna:
The minds untaught mistake Me, veiled in form;-
naught see they of My secret Presence, nought of My
hid Nature, ruling all which lives. vain hopes pursuing,
vain deeds doing; fed on vainest knowledge, senselessly
they seek an evil way, the way of brutes and fiends. But
My Mahatmas, those of noble soul who tread the path
celestial, worship Me with hearts unwandering,-
knowing Me the Source, the Eternal Source, of Life.54
The Avatara has a dual nature as visible from the above
quote from the Bhagavad-Gita, one is Divine which is one with

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
God and the other is the human which is like anybody else. That
is the reason why Sri Krishna says that people mistake Him to
be only a human being and do not recognize His Divine Nature.
Adib Taherzadeh in Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, volume 1 p. 58,
speaks that in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh there are many
statements concerning the dual station of the Manifestations
of God and His Chosen Ones. In relation to God, these Holy
Souls appear as utter nothingness, but in relation to the world
of creation They are endowed with all the attributes of God
and are closely identified with Him. As Bahá’u’lláh has stated
in one of His prayers:
When I contemplate, O my God, the relationship that
bindeth me to Thee, I am moved to proclaim to all
created things 'verily I am God!'; and when I consider
my own self, lo, I find it coarser than clay!55
Similar statements have also been made in Islam. The
following tradition attributed to Prophet Muhammad clearly
indicates the dual nature of the Messengers of God.
Manifold are Our relationships with God. At one time,
We are He Himself, and He is We Ourself. At another
He is that He is, and We are that We are.56
Thus, we are able to understand the universal nature of
Divine Unity in which all the Avataras or the Manifestations of
God from different religions have a dual nature. This proves
the inner essential unity and oneness of different religions and
they having come from the same Source speaking of the same
Knowledge. This is evident from the above examples of Sri
Krishna, Prophet Mohammad and Bahá’u’lláh.
But this dual nature is the cause of much confusion and
difficulty among the followers and also the outsiders of a
particular religion. The followers mainly take only the divine
form of their Avatara and while outsiders take mostly the
human form, of the Avatara of the other religion. This is one of
the fundamental reasons while they do not respect the
Manifestation of God from the other religions as much as their
own. And they give a lower rank to the Manifestations of God
from other religions whereas often they go to the height of
fanaticism for their own Avatara by replacing Him with God

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Himself. An example in trinity57 in Christianity and who do
not believe in divine reality of Mohammad.
Every Manifestation of God validates and confirms the
truth of the earlier Manifestation. Even as Moses had
confirmed Abraham, Jesus had confirmed and validated the
truth of Moses and His laws and Mohammad Jesus. This is one
of the proofs in the Holy Books on the validity and truth of
each new coming Manifestation of God that He shall confirm
and validate the truth of the earlier One. Thus confirming the
soundness of history.
Even as Bahá’u’lláh confirms the truth of Mohammad
stating:
Behold how the sovereignty of Muhammad, the
Messenger of God, is today apparent and manifest
amongst the people.58
Sri Krishna in Bhagavad-Gita has confirmed Rama Avatara
while speaking in the voice of God comparing Himself to be the
Best and Center of all things in the universe. Among things and
beings of the world, Sri Krishna says,
Time's self I am; of woodland-beasts — buffaloes,
deers, and bears — the lordly-painted tiger; of birds the
vast Garud, the whirlwind 'mid the winds; ‘mid chiefs
Rama with blood imbrued, Makar 'mid fishes of the
sea, and Ganges 'mid the streams; Yea! First, and Last,
and Centre of all which is or seems I am, Arjuna!
Wisdom Supreme of what is wise, words on the
uttering lips I am, and eyesight of the eyes. And “A” of
written characters, Dwandwa59 of knitted speech, and
Endless Life, and boundless Love, whose power
sustaineth each…60
Influence of Hindu and the Bahá’í Revelations
Hinduism is the third largest community of religion in the
world numbering almost a billion just after Christianity and
Islam. What has kept the Hindu people together in cherishing
the ideals of their common heritage in spite of consistent long
assaults of corrupt practices like casteism and maltreatment of

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
women like many great religions of the world. Hinduism has
not only influence on itself but on the wider world beyond the
religious and spiritual ideas. Ancient astronomy, chemistry,
medicine and especially mathematics show the indelible impact
of Hinduism. Discovery and creation of decimal system and
creative imagination of zero. From last three thousand years,
hundreds of millions of Hindus have turned themselves to the
healing spiritual message of epics like the Mahabharata, the
Ramayana,
scriptures
like
Bhagavad-Gita,
Vedas
and
Upanishads. The philosophy of life and ideals present in these
Books have given rise to a culture which is still continuing from
its emergence of at least ten thousand years, which until now is
unparallel in the history of world civilizations. Yoga with its
similar ancient origin has its influence worldwide. Striving for
justice and abiding by one’s righteous duties in the face of
challenges of one’s passions and others’ opposition is an
eternal and universal Hindu principle of the foundation of
peaceful and enduring social order. It has been a regular life-
time habit of Indian masses to listen to and participate in the
singing of devotional and moral characters of Mahabharata,
Puranas, Ramayana and Bhagavad-Gita. Worship and altruism
were the paramount values of individual and community life
for thousands of years. This has given rise to spiritualizing of
hundreds of millions and its effect upon the whole world. In
spite of nearly two hundred years of western colonization, and
the present waves of technology, diverse and differing modes of
living, Hinduism is sustained in its vigour in giving a peaceful
order to the people of India who are emerging as world leaders
in modern technology and spiritual ways of life as Yoga.
The Bahá’í Faith in parallel even though being the most recent
Divine Revelation in the religious history, has its first impact
in Iranian society where it is conceived. It is the Bahá’ís who
have established the first school for the girls in conformity to
their teaching on the equality of man and woman, in Iran where
girls were not considered fit to attend schools and acquire
higher learning as the boys. Coming in majority from the
illiterate and farming and lower social classes, Bahá’ís had
established themselves as the most educated, progressive and
prosperous community in Iran owing to their adherence to
lofty spiritual guidance and values given by Bahá’u’lláh and
later by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
of Justice, the international governing Council of the Bahá’ís.
Out of Iran in more than one hundred and eighty countries and
independent territories, Bahá’ís have established their national
communities and institutions. They are engaged in teaching the
pacifying and unifying teachings of the Bahá’í Faith and also
are doing disinterested service to the people world over through
humanitarian enterprises such as schools, non-governmental
organizations in addressing social issues like health, value
education, tribal development and other socio-economic
development actions. Bahá’í International Community has a
consultative status with United Nations and thus Bahá’í
teachings have their influence on world affairs. But first and
foremost is the transformation which some six million people
in the world have experienced and have dedicated their lives in
dissemination of the healing message of Bahá’u’lláh and selfless
and indiscriminate service to the human society. Thus while
thinking globally and acting locally, Bahá’ís are assisting in
bringing the immemorial vision of world unity in reality.
Conclusion
When Righteousness declines, O Bharata! when
wickedness is strong, I rise, from age to age, and take
visible shape, and move a man with men, succouring
the good, thrusting the evil back, And setting Virtue
on her seat again.61
The concept of God and His nature is defined identically in
the teachings of Sri Krishna from Hinduism and the Bahá’í
teachings. He is mentioned to be the Creator of everything that
exists and He Himself is uncreated and self-subsisting,
independent and unknowable. And that to let Himself be
known, He cannot come in His Essential Form to people
because people do not have the capacity to bear a full
Revelation of God, so it is giving little by little age after age
through each Avatara or the Manifestation. He sends His
chosen Avataras or Manifestations and gives them authority
and power from His own in order to educate people to
gradually recognize His true nature and go away from the man
made Vice and progress on the path of Virtue, thus, creating a
new greater civilization each time of His appearance as an

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Avatara amidst the people. Thus this phenomenon justifies in
being called a Progressive Revelation. And this unchanging
purpose of divine revelation is aptly named Sanatana Dharma,
the Eternal Law.
Human nature, using a different language in Hinduism and
the Bahá’í Faith, is both spiritual and material.
The divine revelations are the successive stages in the Divine
Plan as mentioned in both Hindu and the Bahá’í scriptures for
greater recognition of God by humans. As seen in progressive
nature of Dashavatara, the message was heroic in case of
Matsya and Kurma and Varaha and Narasimha. Then Rama
and Krishna brought the teachings of an exemplary way of life.
Then it is Buddha who has brought the lessons of renunciation
and relieving sufferings thereby living an enlightened
unattached life. And it is Kalki who shall bring the union of
differing people of the planet thereby culminating a major
stage in the spiritualization of mankind.
This is the Indian line of Avataras and there are such lines in
all the continents and the regions of the world … which
converge today into one universal convergence and union into
the Universal Manifestation of the Glory of God, the
Bhargodevasya the Maitreya Amitabha and so on…
Each of the Avataras have brought humanity to a stage
further according to its contextual needs. And so each further
progress enhances the receiving capacity of people. And as
stated by Bahá’u’lláh, the divine revelations are revealed
according to the conditions and receiving capacity of
humanity at each successive stage of its evolution and
promoting an ever advancing civilization. This is clearly
evident in the phenomena of Dashavatara and amply justified
in the concept of Progressive Revelation.
The soul in both Hindu and the Bahá’í views is uncreated and
is eternal. But unlike certain interpretations of some groups of
Hinduism if not all, the concept of reincarnation is not found
in the Bahá’í teachings. But in the author’s point of view, the
soul having taken many forms as mentioned in Bhagavad-Gita
does not mean many earthly forms, but rather several celestial
forms or successive passing of the soul through different and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
innumerable realms of God till eternity until it merges in union
with her Creator. In other words, as the life in the human
temple is the first stage of the life of the soul — as the child in
the womb of the mother — it has the journey which begins on
this earthly realm and there will be many other lives in the
spiritual worlds.
The other meaning of Lord Krishna having been born several
times and Arjuna too are the several successive revelations on
earth by Avataras wherein the self-same spirit of an Avatara
was present and self-same spirit of a sincere seeker, a devotee
was present too thereby embodying the same divine grace and
human receptivity at each stage of cosmic manifestation of
Avatara.
In the author’s finding, the spiritual message and even the
details of the spiritual teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and Sri Krishna,
for example the elements like the nature of man, concept of
God, the purpose of human life, nature of soul and many
others are similar to an astonishing degree. This leads the
author to conclude the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and Sri Krishna
to be two different versions of the same Reality, the reality of
the same Religion of God, the same Revelation spoken in two
different times by two different Persons, however in two
different social, geographical and cultural context and perhaps
with two different scopes of application. This gave rise to two
different looks over the time to these Faiths, specially for
Hinduism. Any casual observer who observes mostly the social
form and cultural aspect shall find them different whereas a
careful study of scriptures may compel us to see it to be the
application of these two identical spiritual teachings spoken in
two different languages, in two different times, in two vastly
different human contexts and perhaps in two different
geographical scopes.
Teachings of Bhagavad-Gita was limited to Indian sub-
Continent for most of its life up to now fundamentally
perhaps since means of communication and transport were
limited up to very recent till a little over one and half century
ago. Bahá’í teachings spread internationally from its birth in
1844 and much more globally from last half a century perhaps
again owing to the improved means of communication and

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
transport in addition to it being an attractive, radiant and
pertinent divine Message as per the need of humanity today.
24th May 1844, the first day of the birth of the Bahá’í
dispensation is marked by the start of the communication
revolution of sending of first telegraphic message in the world
by Mr. Samuel F. B. Morse, the inventor of the telegraph from
Washington to Baltimore, a message chosen from the Bible,
from the Book of Numbers read: “What hath God wrought?”62
Thus, these two different scopes of expansion from the very
beginning of Hinduism and the Bahá’í Faith led to the social
applications which gave rise to two different external looks of
these Faiths whereas analyzing their spiritual teachings, its
adherents share a one common faith in the core of their
spiritual beliefs. Having said so, but for the Bahá’í Faith,
owing to its recent origin, a reasonable conclusive statement as
to its social form cannot be made since it is on its course of
speedy evolution and some more years need to pass with at least
a significantly comparable Bahá’í population to Hindus in
order to speak conclusively of any resultant crystallized
difference between the Bahá’í Faith and Hinduism in the social
aspect or cultural elements of its practice.
Hinduism was mainly adhered by a large number, almost a
billion, of Indians and Bahá’í Faith by a very small comparative
numbers of a few millions of scattered people but living
practically on every land of the Earth. Thus, over the time as a
larger number of people accept Bahá’í Faith, the social
reflection of its spiritual application would be more conclusive
and of course different from the Hindu social reflection, even
though spiritually or cosmically they may have identical form
which we find in Bhagavad-Gita and the spiritual teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh. Thus, these two identical teachings in two
different social applications would give rise to different social
forms due to the difference in worldly conditions of its
receiving people.
One of the reasons is also that Hinduism has an
ecclesiastical class whereas the Bahá’í Faith has an institutional
administration. Enormous differences as these in my opinion
would lead Hindu Faith and the Bahá’í Faith very different
socially even though both of them live in and share this present

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
technological world together. But keeping a clarity of vision
unclouded by these contextual differences the author, based on
the teachings of Bhagavad-Gita and Bahá’u’lláh, concludes these
two Faiths respectively to be spiritually identical but socially
different.
Dashavatara being the most core phenomenon of Hinduism
around which Sanatana Dharma is intertwined, a typical
expression of it is taken by the author in Bhagavad-Gita which
characterizes in clearest terms the elements of a revelation in
Hindu
flow.
Various
writings
of
Bahá’u’lláh
slightly
supplemented by some authoritative interpretive writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and
Shoghi
Effendi
are
taken
as
full
representation of the Bahá’í revelation. Thus giving a balanced
comparative counterparts in both Hinduism and the Bahá’í
Faith. And then these two revelations in their spiritual and
social elements are compared.
Due to the fundamental position of Dashavatara within
Hinduism named as the Eternal Law or Sanatana Dharma,
future researchers may like to explore in depth each of the cases
of the Avataras and bring to light the scientific or logical
reasoning behind the allegorical narration of the Life story of
each of the Avataras. This may throw greater light upon the
phenomenon of Divine Revelation as the educational process of
mankind, its objective and tools.
Author
has
demonstrably
discovered
a
remarkable
resemblance of the messages of Bhagavad-Gita and the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh. This then becomes a very promising field of
comparative study in different themes of the Words and
Writings of Sri Krishna and Bahá’u’lláh. Such a study would
help in finding out the nature of Their Revelations and the
nature of the audiences to which their respective revelations are
addressed and also noting the progression, when and if any, in
the themes of such messages.

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Internet Sources:
www.bahai.org 2009
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalpa_(time_unit) 2009
www.dasavatharastotra.blogspot.com/2007/02/matsya-avataram.htm 2007
www.ibiblio.org/sripedia/oppiliappan/sgati/sddsv1/v01025.htm 1996
www.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalki 2009
Text Sources & Commentaries:
Abdu’l-Bahá: “Paris Talks” Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 27 Rutland Gate,
London SW7 1PD Copyright (c) by the Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Some Answered Questions” Collected and Translated by
Laura Clifford Barney Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois 60091,
Copyright 1930, 1954, (c) 1964, 1981 by the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 1987 Edition.
“Ancient Indian Tradition and Mythology Series” Puranās - Volumes I-46,
1991 edition, Translated and annotated by Dr N. A. Deshpande, Motilal
Banarasidas Publishers Pvt. Ltd. ISBN 81-208-0807-x
Arnold, Edwin: “Bhagavad-Gita” Translated from the Sanskrit Text by Sir
Truslove, Hanson & Comba, Ltd., New York, 1900
Association Francophone Européenne d'Études Bahá’íes. Transformation
de la société et du monde Bahá’í: Quelle place pour l'individu?
Bruxelles — 5-6 février 2005.
Bahá’u’lláh: “The Kitáb-i-Íqán (The Book of Certitude)” Translated by
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois 60091-2844,
Copyright (c) 1931, 1950 by the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States, 1983 edition.
Bahá’u’lláh: Gems of Divine Mysteries - Javahiru'l-Asrar by Bahá’í World
Centre, Haifa, Copyright (c) by the Universal House of Justice, 2002.
Bahá’u’lláh:”The Kitáb-i-Aqdas” Bahá’í World Centre, Copyright (c) 1992
by the Universal House of Justice.
Bahá’u’lláh: “Epistle to the Son of the Wolf” by Translated by Shoghi
Effendi. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois, USA. Copyright
1941, 1953, (c) 1988 by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
the United States, 1988 Edition.
“Bahá’í World Faith” (Abdu’l-Bahá's section only), Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Illinois 60091, Copyright 1943 (c) 1956, 1976 by the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, Sixth Printing of
1956 Edition,1976.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Bahá’u’lláh: ““Prayers and Meditations by Translated by Shoghi Effendi,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois,USA. Copyright 1938 by the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 1987
Edition.
Cush, Denise: “Encyclopedia of Hinduism”. Catherine Robinson,&
Michael York. Routledge 2008.
Eliade, Mercia: “Patanjali and Yoga”. Schocken Books, New York 1976.
Flood, Gavin (Ed.): “The Blackwell Companion to Hinduism”. Blackwell
Publishing 2002.
Journal of Indian Philosophy. Volume 27, No. 6. December 1999 —
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, The Netherlands.
Journal of the Maharshi Veda-Vijñāna Academy. 1996 and 1997. Gujarat
1995.
Lopez, Donald S. Jr. (Ed.): “Religion of India in Practice”. Princeton
Readings in Religons. Princeton University Press. Princeton 1995.
“Maitrayana-Brahmaya-Upanishad”
Ocean- Free Software Library of the World's Religious Literature, English
Library,
Hindu literature section, Upanishads vol. 2; available online at
http://www.bahai-education.org/ocean/
Mittal, Sushil & Thursby, Gene (Ed.): “The Hindu World”. Routledge 2004.
Nakamura Hajime: 'The History of Early Vedānta Philosophy'. Part One.
Motilal, Delhi, 1983.
Patanjali: “The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali”. Ocean- Free Software Library
of the World's Religious Literature, English Library, Hindu literature
section; available online at http://www.bahai-education.org/ocean/
Rammurti, S. Mishra: “The Textbook of Yoga Psychology” of Patanjali's
Yoga Sutras in all modern psychologic disciplines”. A new translation
and interpretation for meaningful application. The Julian Press,
Inc.New York 1963.
Rinehart, Robin (Ed.): “Contemporary Hinduism — Ritual, Culture, and
Practise” ABC- CLIO. California 2004.
Row, Subba, T: “Notes on the Bhagavad Gita” Theosophical University
Press, Pasadena, California 1978.
Shoghi Effendi: “The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh” Selected Letters. Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois, USA. Copyright 1938 (c) 1955, 1974
by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States,
Second revised edition 1974, 1982 Reprint.
Shoghi Effendi (Tr.) “Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh”. Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinoi,USA. Copyright 1952 (c) 1976 by the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 1983
Edition.
Swami Akhilananda: “Hindu Psychology — Its meaning for the West”.
Routledge & Keagan Paul, Ltd. 1965.

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Swami Chidbhavananda Sri Ramakrishna: “The Bhagavad Gita” with
Commentary. Tapovanam. 1984.
“The Garuda Purana”, translated by Wood Ernest and Subrahmanyam S.
V., Bibliolife 2008
'The Mahabharata'. Translated by Kisari Mohan Ganguli. Munshiram
Manoharlal Publishers, Pvt. Ltd. 1991.
“The Ramayana of Valmiki– An Epic of Ancient India'. Volume I-IV.
Princeton Library of Asian Translantors. Princenton, USA, 1994.
William Sears: “Release the Sun”, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, USA 1995

NOTES
1 The Sanskrit phrase meaning “the eternal law” indicating timeless nature
of the Religion.
2 Major Hindu scriptures constituting core teachings of Vedanta-
spiritual traditions concerned with self-realisation
3 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, p. 313
4 Bhagavad Gita : Chapter 5, Verses 30,31
5 Bhagavad Gita : Chapter 11, verses 12-18
6 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p.3
7 Bhagavad Gita : Chapter 11, verses 12-18
8 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 97
9 Bhagavad Gita : Chapter 11, verses 12-18
10 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 97
11 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris talks p. 60
12 Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 112, from the tablet of
The Great Announcement to Mankind.
13 Originally unnamed seven Saintly Patriarchs of the ancient Vedic
Religion known as Saptarshi
14 Righteous kings, a principal executor, which occur each eon carrying
out the divine plan of God.
15 Bhagavad Gita : Chapter 10, verses 4 -7
16 Bhagavad Gita : Chapter 14, verse 5
17 Bhagavad-Gita : Chapter 2, verse 22
18 Bhagavad-Gita : Chapter 2, verses 23,24,25
19 Reincarnation, literally “to be made flesh again”, is a doctrine or
metaphysical belief that some essential part of a living being (in some
variations only human beings), often referred as the spirit or soul
survives death to be reborn in a new body. Punarjanma, to be born
again, is the word used in Sanskrit which has both indications to be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

born again in physical birth in a flesh and in a material form or as a
spiritual birth before or after the human physical death.
20 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 161
21 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 158
22 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 160
23 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p.161
24 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 157
25 Kountey in Sanskrit means Kunti’s son. Here Krishana addresses Arjuna
as Kountey. Arjuna is the son of Kunti and king Pandu and one of the
five Pandava brothers mentioned in Indian epic Mahabharata. Kountey
is one of the names of Arjuna. He is the compatriate and dearest
disciple to Krishna. The dialogue between Arjuna and Krishana is
Bhagavad-Gita narrated over the battlefield of Kurukshetra as
mentioned in Mahabharata.
26 Bhagavad-Gita : Chapter 8, verse 6
27 Krishna, as refered in Bhagavad-Gita
28 One of the names of Arjun, as adressed by Krishna, being the prince of
Bharat dynasty in the epic of Mahabharat
29 Bhagvad Gita, chapter 4, verses 7-8
30 Meaning righteousness, the Law, the Divine order.
31 Antonyme of ‘Dharma’ meaning unrightousness, lawlessness and the
disorder against the divine pleasure.
32 Garuda Purana is one of the Puranas which are part of the Hindu body
of texts known as Smriti. Garuda Purana is in the form of instructions
by Vishnu to his carrier, Garuda (The King of Birds — a vimana of Lord
Vishnu). This Purana deals with astronomy, medicine, grammar, and
gemstone structure and qualities.
33 Mentioned in Garuda Purana, the ten avataras, descents or incarnations
of Vishnu, which appeared in archaic and ancient times, except Kalkî,
who is still to come.
34 Garuda Purana, Chapter 8, verses 9-11
35 The name of an 'epoch' or 'era' within a cycle of four ages in Hindu
philosophy.
36 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh p. 49
37 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh p.49
38 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitab-i-Iqan, page 103
39 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh p. 87
40 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 48
41 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 23
42 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh p. 88
43 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh p. 104

Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation

44 To demonstrate His divine nature to reluctant Arjuna who is completely
confused in performing his divine duty, Krishna grants Arjuna the
boon of cosmic vision (albeit temporary) and allows the prince to see
His 'Universal Form'. Thus releaving Arjuna of all dilemmas and helping
him attain a certitude of Faith.
45 The crown with moving disc of halo.
46 Anadem, Sudarshana Chakra in Sanskrit, is a spinning disc like weapon
with very sharp edge, which serves as an attribute of Vishnu. Krishna
being the Avatara of Vishnu is also manifested with Sudarshan Chakra.
Lord Vishnu, also called Narayana and like him, Krishna is often
portrayed with four hands, holding a Shankha (a conch shell), the
Sudarshana, a Gada (mace) and a Padma (lotus).
47 Bhagavad Gita Chapter 11, Verses 45, 46, Vishwarupadarshan
48 Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 194
49 Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries, p. 14
50 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 86
51 Bhagavad-Gita : chapter 4, verse 4
52 Bhagavad-Gita: chapter 9, verses 5-8
53 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 9 and p. 12
54 Bhagavad-Gita: chapter 9, verses 12, 13
55 Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p.234
56 A Muslim tradition cited by Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the
Wolf, p. 43
57 In Christian doctrine, the Trinity is the unity of Father, Son, and Holy
Spirit as three persons in one Godhead. Each of the persons is
understood as having the one identical essence or nature, not merely
similar natures. The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church
describes the Trinity as “the central dogma of Christian theology”.
58 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 24
59 A duel.
60 Bhagavad-Gita, Chapter 10, verses 30-33
61 Bhagvad Gita, chapter 4, verses 7-8
62 King James Bible, Numbers 23:23

Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Law˙-i qiná‘
Sholeh A. Quinn
Some time between 1868-1871, while exiled in Akka,
Palestine, Bahá’u’lláh, founder of the Bahá’í religion, composed
a treatise entitled the Law˙-i qiná‘, or “Tablet of the Veil.”
Addressed to the Shaykhí leader Karím Khán Kirmání (1810-
1871), the text forms the final communication in a series of
direct and indirect correspondence between the two.1 The
purpose of this paper is to provide a critical analysis of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i qiná‘ in order to illuminate the process
through which Bahá’u’lláh engaged in dialogue — in this case
with a religious rival of the Báb — in multiple texts. In order to
narrow our analysis, we shall focus on the following three
themes that are central to the Tablet: gender and the use of the
word qiná‘, The Báb’s grammar, and the Qur’án.
In terms of secondary scholarship, The Law˙-i qiná‘ has not
yet been translated into English, nor has it been extensively
discussed in the scholarly or academic European-language
literature. The Law˙-i qiná‘ has, however, been discussed in
Persian language scholarship. References to the text and its
context appear in the scholarship of Fázil Mázandarání and
Ishráq Khávarí. More recently, Vahid Rafati has written an
important article on this Tablet, published in an Irfan
Colloquia volume.2 We are only at the beginning of making
sense of the complex issues relating to the historical
contextualization of Bahá’í scripture. These include questions
of audience, authorial intent, dating of the texts, and
numerous other literary and historiographical matters.
Therefore, in order to begin contextualizing the Law˙-i qiná’,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
we begin with a brief overview of the Tablet’s addressee: Karím
Khán Kirmání.
Karím Khán Kirmání
Karím Khán Kirmání was born in 1810 and died in 1871. He
came from the Persian city of Kirmán, and was the son of a
Qájár prince. Kirmání’s father was Ibrahím Khán ¸áhir al-
Dawlih, and Kirmání had nineteen brothers and twenty-one
sisters. This Ibrahím Khán was an admirer of Shaykh A˙mad al-
A˙sá’i, founder of the Shaykhí movement, which contributed
markedly to the establishment of the Bábí religion. Ibrahím
Khán founded a religious college named after himself, the
Ibráhímiyyih. When Karím Khán went to Karbala, soon after
his father’s death, he met Sayyid Kázim Rashtí, successor to
Shaykh A˙mad al-A˙sá’i and leader of the Shaykhí movement at
the time. Karím Khán Kirmání became a disciple of Sayyid
Kázim Rashtí and eventually went back to Kirmán, where we
planned apparently to “teach and guide the faithful” there.3
Kirmání was an extremely learned and highly prolific
individual who wrote a great deal on a wide variety of subjects.
He was perhaps best known for his elaborations on the “fourth
pillar” (rukn al-rábi‘).”4 Kirmání wrote a number of passages
and tracts elaborating on his understandings of this fourth
pillar. Other subjects he wrote on included optics, alchemy,
hadith, color mysticism, prophetology, and many others. As
time passed, because of the sorts of ideas he was teaching to his
students, he ran into conflicts with various individuals and
groups in Kirmán. Among those individuals was his brother-in-
law, Sayyid Áqá Javád Shírází.5 These two quarreled over
control of the Ibráhímiyyih, with Karím Khán trying to have
Shaykhism taught there. When Sayyid Kázim Rashtí died in
1844, Karím Khán proclaimed himself the new leader of the
Shaykhí school, continued to spread the teachings of Shaykh
A˙mad and Sayyid Kázim and expanded Shaykhí thought in
various ways.
In addition to clashes with the religious orthodoxy, and
other Shaykhis, Karím Khán also denounced the Báb, and in
fact viciously attacked Him and His claims in a number of
essays and books (at least eight). His earliest work against the

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-qiná‘
Báb was entitled the Iz˙áq al-bátil, a text which has been
analyzed by William McCants.6 Karím Khán Kirmání spent his
last years in privacy on his estate in Langar, outside of Kirman
city. Mangol Bayat states that “his ideas remained unrealized,
his ambition unfulfilled,” and the radical transformation of
Shaykhí ideas into a concrete program of action was instead
undertaken by someone else — namely the Báb.7
Bahá’u’lláh first discusses Kirmání’s writings in a passage of
the Kitáb-i Íqán, where He comments on something that
Kirmání had written in a book entitled the Irshád al-a‘vám. In
the Irshád al-a‘vám, Kirmání states that in order to understand
the mi’ráj, or the night journey of the prophet Mu˙ammad, one
must be well versed in a vast range of sciences, including
everything from alchemy to physics. Bahá’u’lláh disagrees with
this, stating that ones spiritual qualities were what mattered.
This section serves as the immediate introduction to the
famous “true seeker” section of the Kitáb-i  Íqán.8
The Treatise of Mullá Jamál “the Bábí”
Some five years (7 Sha‘bán 1283/15 December 1866) after the
composition of the Kitáb-i Íqán, Kirmání composed a treatise
known as the “Risálih dar javáb-i su’álát-i Mullá Jamál-i Bábí”
(The Treatise in Response to the Questions of Mullá Jamál the
Bábí).9 Kirmání states that a certain individual sent him a
number of questions via another individual, asking that
Kirmání answer them. Kirmání’s treatise reproduces the
questions and provides answers for them. This treatise is the
key document for contextualizing the Law˙-i qiná‘. It numbers
approximately 50 pages and was copied out and printed in the
1960s as part of the Shaykhí collection of books held in Kirmán.
Kirmání’s preface to the treatise is in Arabic and the rest is in
Persian. He tells us in the introduction that, while he was in
Tehran in the company of a certain Sulaymán Khán, someone
sent Sulaymán Khán a number of questions and asked them to
be relayed to Karím Khán. This individual also requested that
Karím Khán provide answers to the questions. Karím Khán tells
us that since this request came via Sulayman Khán, and
Suleyman Khán had great respect among Muslims, it was
necessary for him to reply. However, he continues, for various

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
reasons he did not want to reveal the name of the questioner,
and so he decided that he would write the questioner’s words
phrase by phrase and then write whatever came to mind in way
of response to each phrase.10 This Suleyman Khán was in all
likelihood Suleyman Khán Afshár (d. 1309/1891).11 Suleyman
Khán was not a Bábí, but a Shaykhí, and the leader of the Afshár
tribe. An extremely wealthy man, he gave money to support
Shaykhí publications and was in charge of Sa’in fortress. He
fought against the Bábís in the battle at Shaykh Tabarsí.
As for the identity of who sent the questions to Kirmání, the
situation is complicated by the fact that his name actually does
not appear anywhere in the treatise itself, and it is possible that
the title of the treatise was added later by the Kirmání Shaykhís
and their bibliographers, such as the individual (Shaykh Abú al-
Qásim Kirmání d. 1969) who prepared the Fihrist, or index, to
the Shaykhí collection.12 Fázil Mázandarání, in his Asrár al-
áthár, has identified the writer of the questions to Kirmání as
Áqá Mu˙ammad Rizá Qannád Shírází, but unfortunately he
does not state where he obtained this information.13 Regardless
of this, Mázandarání does not appear to have seen the treatise
itself or been familiar with its title. I have suggested another
possibility regarding the identity of this person: if the
individual who gave the questions to Karím Khán Karím Khán
Kirmání is indeed named “Mullá Jamál,” then Mullá Jamál
would almost certainly be Mullá Jamál Burújirdí, an early
convert to the Bahá’í religion who later rebelled against the
authority of ‘Abdu’l Bahá.14
After the introduction to his treatise, Kirmání proceeds to
deconstruct the questioner’s opening phrases, breaking down
the Arabic in each one, and pointing out what he seems to
consider the many grammatical errors in each phrase. The most
prevalent type of criticism he makes is comments on various
forms of Arabic verbs and other words. This sort of analysis of
the introductory portion of the questioner’s letter goes on for
four pages in the printed edition, as Kirmání breaks it down
into fifteen sections, with his commentary on each phrase
numbering anything between just a few words or a few
sentences. After this, Kirmání starts addressing Mullá Jamál’s
specific questions. At this point, the answers start getting

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-qiná‘
longer and the questioner’s language turns from Arabic to
Persian.
In an unpublished study, Stephen Lambden has translated
one of the questions and answers in Kirmání’s treatise, and
noticed that some of the queries of the questioner seem to refer
to his reading of passages in the Kitáb-i Íqán, particularly
certain biblical passages cited therein. In this instance, the
question has to do with the Gospel of Matthew and certain
prophecies in that book regarding the “sign of the
manifestation of the countenance of the Promised One,
Muhammad.” Kirmání’s dense reply to this question is fairly
standard, in that he points out that the Four Gospels were
composed by the disciples of Jesus. He then states that the
prophecy or sign referred to in the biblical quotation has
nothing to do with the Prophet Muhammad, but is referring to
Jesus, and goes on to interpret the biblical passage referred to
in the question.15 In other words, he is contesting Bahá’u’lláh’s
interpretation of the prediction in Matthew chapter 24.
Bahá’u’lláh’s interpretation focuses on the verse’s fulfillment in
Mu˙ammad.
The Law˙-i qiná‘ in Context
Karím Khán Kirmání did not have the last word on any of
these matters, however. In His own “introduction” to the
Law˙-i qiná‘ (the portion preceding the Basmala), Bahá’u’lláh
Himself provides a context for His Tablet, stating that one of
the “divine lovers” had sent a letter to Kirmání, and Kirmání
had objected to the usages (language) in that letter, and for that
reason, had turned away from the truth. Bahá’u’lláh then
explains that He only saw or heard of one part of Kirmání’s
response to the letter that was sent to him, and His Tablet was
revealed in response to that one portion. In order to dispel any
doubt about what that was, He states it in the preface to the
Tablet.16 The passage in question first appears in Kirmání’s
treatise, and here Kirmání quotes “Mullá Jamál-i Bábi” as
stating the following: “In the name of God, the Merciful, the
Compassionate; Praise be to God who lifts (arfa‘a) the veil from
the eyes of the saints.”17 Kirmání then responds to this
statement, stating “The word arfa‘a is wrong and is not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Arabic. They say “rafa‘a” and “rafa‘a” itself is (a)
transitive/causal (verb). And the word “qiná‘“ is also wrong
here, because a qiná‘ is a head scarf (chahárqad) that women put
on their head, and a qiná‘ does not cover one’s eye; that which
covers the face and the eye(s) is a burqa‘.18
In the introduction to the Law˙-i qiná’, Bahá’u’lláh
reproduces, with one slight difference, this sentence in
Kirmání’s treatise: “Praise be to God who lifts the veil from the
face of the saints.” He then describes and criticizes Kirmání’s
objections to this phrase: “The above-mentioned Khán has
objected, saying ‘this phrase is a mistake, and the possessor of
this letter, you would say, has not attained a single letter of
knowledge and idioms/forms of speech of the people, for the
qiná‘ is specifically for the heads of women. He has been
occupied with objecting to (grammatical) usages and is
unaware that he
is devoid of both knowledge
and
understanding.”19 Echoing the portion of the Kitáb-i Íqán
addressed (indirectly) to Kirmání, He then states that the
purpose of knowledge is to guide people to the truth. Finally,
Bahá’u’lláh ends the introduction by noting that He did not see
Kirmání’s other objections, He only heard and saw the one
passage and this Tablet was revealed so that perhaps the people
would not be deprived.20
After the introduction, the Tablet directly addresses
Kirmání: “O thou who hast a reputation for knowledge but
standeth upon the brink of the pit of ignorance. We heard that
you have turned away from the Truth (haqq) and rejected one of
its lovers who sent you a sublime treatise to guide you to God,
your lord and the lord of all the worlds.”21 Here the “lover”
refers to “Mulla Jamal the Bábi” and the “sublime treatise”
refers to the questions that he sent to Kirmání.
Gender and the Law˙-i qiná‘
Having established the context for the Law˙-i qiná‘,
Bahá’u’lláh then starts addressing specific issues. One major
component of Kirmání’s critique of the sentence we have been
discussing relates to the issue of gender and the word qiná‘. The
context for this is the opening section of the Risalah, where

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-qiná‘
Kirmání chastises Mullá Jamál for using the word qiná‘,
stating, as mentioned above, that his usage of this word is a
mistake because a qiná‘ is a headscarf or chahār-qadī that
women wear on their heads, and therefore a qiná‘ is not
something that someone would place over their eyes. What is
placed over the eyes, he says, is a burqa‘.22
Bahá’u’lláh addresses Kirmání’s criticism of usage in
relation to the word qiná‘, stating, “Verily, if you had
journeyed the paths of the people of literary learning, you
would not have objected to the usage of the [word] veil (al-
qiná‘), and you would not have been among the disputers.
Furthermore, you rejected the words of God in this sublime
theophany.”23
Bahá’u’lláh then makes reference to a pre-Islamic poet called
al-Muqanna‘, asking Kirmání, “have you not heard mention of
al-Muqanna‘, who is known as al-Muqanna‘ al-Kindí, and he is
Mu˙ammad ibn ¸afar ibn ‘Umayr ibn Fir‘án ibn Qays ibn
Aswad?”24 Bahá’u’lláh goes on to say “If we desired to make
mention of his forefathers one by one until they terminated at
the very first origin, we would indeed demonstrate the like of
that which my lord hath taught me of the ancients and the
moderns. This despite the fact that we have not read your
sciences, and God is an all-knowing witness to this.”25 He
explains how al-Muqanna‘ was supposed to have had the most
beautiful face and he veiled his *face* because he was afraid of
getting the evil eye from others. Ultimately, he became an
analogy or an example of beauty.26 Vahid Rafati has shown that
for this second part on al-Muqanna‘, Bahá’u’lláh quotes almost
verbatim from Abú al-Faraj al-Ißfahání’s (d. 356/957) Kitáb al-
aghání.27 Bahá’u’lláh then gives other examples of pre-Islamic
and early Islamic figures who came to be associated with a
particular virtue or attribute, and continues to encourage
Kirmání to “peruse the books of the people so that you will
know about this and be among the knowledgeable people.”28
Interestingly, Bahá’u’lláh does not mention the other al-
Muqanna‘, the so-called “Veiled prophet of Khorasan” who
launched a rebellion against the Abbasid caliph al-Mahdi
(d.169/785), but this may be due to the fact that this al-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Muqanna‘ claimed divinity for himself and seems to have held
other ghuluww (exaggerated) beliefs.29
Bahá’u’lláh concludes His comments here on gender and the
word qiná‘ by repeating His earlier point about the qiná‘ being
applicable to men and women, and then offers examples of
other words from Arabic and Turkish for veil or head covering:
“Be certain that the learned ones in literature use the word qiná‘
for men as we have mentioned to you in a clear and apparent
explanation. Know further that the qiná‘ is specifically [used]
for women and they put it on their heads, but it is used for
men and the face [and] it is admissible, if thou wert among
those who were knowledgeable.”30 Later in the text, Bahá’u’lláh
writes in Persian and makes the same point about the qiná‘: “As
for the qiná‘ and miqna‘, they are two kinds of clothing with
which women cover their heads. And it is specifically for
women’s heads. But it is also permissible [to use it] for men
and for the face. And similarly, lisám is what women cover
their mouth with [and is what] the people of Fars and Turks call
a yashmaq, as has been mentioned in books of literature.”31
Kirmání and the Báb’s Grammar
Another of the central themes in the Law˙-i qiná‘ is that of
grammar and grammatical rules. Although Bahá’u’lláh did not
see the portion of Kirmání’s treatise that addresses grammar,
He was doubtless aware of the debates surrounding the Báb’s
grammar and Kirmání’s earlier criticisms of it. Much
discussion has surrounded the issue of the Báb’s grammar:
whether it was correct or not, why He used the grammar that he
used, and other related questions.32 Bahá’u’lláh uses the
opportunity of the Law˙-i qiná‘ to elaborate on this issue,
addressing not just Kirmání but others who held similar views.
He does this through echoing the words of the Báb and stating
that human beings and human grammatical standards should
not judge God and divine grammatical standards:
Besides this, you have rejected and are rejecting the
words of the lovers of God [i.e. the Bahá’ís]. In
ignorance, you have reached such a level that you have
also rejected the words of the Primal Point, ..and you
have written books against God and his lovers...You

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-qiná‘
and the likes of you have said that the words of the
most great Báb and the Most Complete Remembrance
[i.e. the Báb] are in error, and are contrary to people’s
rules of grammar. Have you still not comprehended
that the divine revealed words are the standard of
everything? Each grammatical rule that is contrary to
the divine verses, that rule loses its credibility.33
Kirmání and the Qur’án
In His earlier Kitáb-i Íqán, Bahá’u’lláh alludes to Kirmání
having been mentioned in the Qur’án, and cites two Qur’ánic
passages that He says refer to Kirmání:
And as to this man’s [Kirmání’s] attainments, his
ignorance, understanding and belief, behold what the
Book which embraceth all things hath revealed; ‘Verily,
the tree of Zaqqum shall be the food of the Athím.’ (Q.
44:43-44) And then follow certain verses, until He saith:
‘Taste this, for thou forsooth art the mighty Karím!’
(Q. 44:49) Consider how clearly and explicitly he hath
been described in God's incorruptible Book! This man,
moreover, feigning humility, hath in his own book
referred to himself as the ‘athím servant’: ‘Athím’ in the
Book of God, mighty among the common herd, ‘Karím’
in name!34
Towards the end of the Law˙-i qiná‘, Bahá’u’lláh again picks
up on this theme, this time drawing an analogy between
Kirmání’s rejection of the Báb’s grammar and early rejections
of Qur’ánic grammar during the time of Mu˙ammad:
Reflect upon the days when the Qur’án was revealed
from the heaven of the will of the all-merciful. To what
an extent have the people of sedition rejected [it]. It
seems that it has vanished from your sight. For this
reason, it was necessary to mention some [Quranic
passages] so perchance you would recognize yourself,
and to what extent you turned away during the time of
the rising of the Mu˙ammadan sun from the horizon
of eternal glory. The purpose is this, that during those
days you had another name, for if you were not of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
those souls, you would never have turned away during
this theophany from the truth.35
The idea that Kirmání existed at the time of Mu˙ammad with
another name has been discussed by Stephen Lambden in a
paper entitled “The Bahai Interpretation of the Antichrist-
Dajjal Traditions.” Here, Lambden suggests that the early Bábís
singled out Kirmání as one of the latter day anti-Christ figures.
In his analysis of this section of the Law˙-i qiná’, Lambden
tentatively hypothesizes that this is an allusion to the notion of
the “eschatological return” (raj`a) of the one-eyed Dajjál.36
Bahá’u’lláh continues elaborating on this theme by
reminding Kirmání of seven Qur’ánic passages which were
rejected in the early Islamic period and briefly states why
objections were made about them. Five of these verses were
rejected for grammatical reasons: 3:84, 40:3, 12:29, 3:45, and
74:35 and two due to conflicts with other verses: 2:29, 7:11.37
The full verses are as follows:
“We do not make any distinction between any of
them.” (The Family of Imran 3:84)
“He it is Who created for you all that is in the earth,
and He directed Himself to the heaven, so He made
them complete seven heavens.” (The Cow 2:29)
“And certainly We created you, then We fashioned
you, then We said to the angels: Make obeisance to
Adam.” (The Elevated 7:11)
“The Forgiver of the faults and the Acceptor of
repentance, Severe to punish…” (The Believer 40:3)
“…ask forgiveness for your fault, surely you are one of
the wrong-doers.” (Yusuf 12:29)
“…a Word from Him (of one) whose name is the
Messiah…” (Imran 3:45)
“Lo! this is one of the greatest (portents).” (Muddathir
74:35)
After providing these examples and explaining the historical
objections to them, Bahá’u’lláh adds that there were nearly
three hundred places in the Qur’án which the clerics of that

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-qiná‘
period and after cited in order to reject Mu˙ammad. They
accused Mu˙ammad, He said, of insanity and corruption, and
most people followed the clerics away from God and towards
hell. Some thought that Mu˙ammad had stolen verses from Amr
al-Qays, the famous pre-Islamic poet, and preferred the poems
known as the “mu‘allaqát” to the verses of God. Some, however,
did not pay any attention to these objections and turned
towards Mu˙ammad. It was, Bahá’u’lláh said, when the
“command of the sword” came down that a lot of people
entered the religion of God (voluntarily and involuntarily). The
verse of the sword, Bahá’u’lláh said, negated the verse of
ignorance.38
The entire purpose of Bahá’u’lláh’s comments here is to
point out to Kirmání that early in the history of Islam the same
accusations were leveled against the Qur’án that Kirmání was
leveling against the Báb’s writings. Using arguments such as
this to confront Kirmání’s prejudices, Bahá’u’lláh again and
again urges Kirmání to peruse literary works and to educate
himself on the topics about which he claims to be so
knowledgeable. Throughout the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes
Kirmání’s ignorance, criticizing his lack of knowledge in not
just spiritual truths, but in basic aspects of Islamic history
and theology.
Through the analysis presented here, we have established the
series of texts that form the immediate and not-so-immediate
background for the Law˙-i qiná’. These are, in order, the Irshád
al-a‘vám, the Kitáb-i Íqán, and the Risálih-yi Mullá Jamál-i
Bábí.
Although
by
no
means
constituting
a
direct
correspondence, through these texts, Karím Khán Kirmání and
Bahá’u’lláh each address issues raised by the other, the result
being a fairly wide-ranging (and long-ranging) discussion. The
themes involved include the notion of knowledge (‘ilm) and its
role in understanding the night journey of the Prophet (Irshád
al-a‘vám and Kitáb-i Íqán), the notion of Karím Khán being
mentioned in the Qur’án (Kitáb-i Íqán and Law˙-i qiná’), the
grammar of the Báb, and the meaning of the word qiná‘. This
study may also tell us something about how ideas were
exchanged and discussed in written form in the Shi’i and
emergent post-Shi’i universe of religious discourse of 19th
century Qajar Iran.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

NOTES
Author’s Note: I am grateful to Dr. Stephen N. Lambden and Dr. Moojan
Momen for their valuable assistance in preparing this paper. I take full
responsibility for all errors.

1 See Bahá’u’lláh, “Law˙-i qiná‘,” in Alva˙-i mubárakih-yi ˙adrat-i Bahá
Alláh (Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publish Trust, 1978), 66-87. Hereafter
cited as LQ.
2 See, for instance, Vahid Rafati, “Nazarí bih Law˙-i qiná‘,” in Safinih-yi
Irfán, (Darmstadt, ‘Asr-i jadíd, 2001), 170-191.
3 For more information on Karím Khán Kirmání, see Mangol Bayat,
Mysticism and Dissent: Socioreligious Thought in Qajar Iran (Syracuse:
Syracuse University Press, 1982), 86. Information on Kirmani’s
biography can also be found in “shaykhiyya,” Encyclopaedia of Islam,
2nd edition, by Denis MacEoin.
4 Shaykh Ahmad had already condensed the traditional “five pillars” of Shi’i
Islam--(1) divine unity, (2) prophethood, (3) resurrection, (4) divine
justice, and (5) the imamate--into three pillars: (1) knowledge of God,
(2) prophethood, (3) the imamate. The early Shaykhí leaders added a
fourth pillar: (4) the Shi’i community or someone within that
community who would offer guidance. (Sayyid Kazim saw this as an
individual figure, and it was understood messianically by the Báb).
Kirmání seems to have modified that fourth pillar to refer to (4)
“knowledge of friends and enemies of the Imams.” See Stephen N.
Lambden, “Some Aspects of Isrā'īliyyāt and the Emergence of the Bābī-
Bahā'ī Interpretation of the Bible,” PhD dissertation, University of
Newcastle upon Tyne, 2001.
5 He was a son-in-law of Ibráhím Khán ¸áhir al-Dawlih and therefore
Karím Khán’s brother-in-law.
6 He composed it approximately a year or so after the Báb made his claims
to Mulla Husayn, and in it he not only divined the fact that the Báb
was making a great claim, but thought fit to reject it and condemn it
through a close analysis of the Qayyúm al-asmá’. He also attacked the
notion of a “new prophet,” and vowed that he would destroy the Báb.
See Dr. Will McCants, unpublished paper, presented at the Irfan
Colloquium at Louhelen Conference Center in October, 2003,
(http://irfancolloquia.org/51/mccants_shaykhi).
7 Bayat, Mysticism and Dissent, 86.
8 See Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i Íqán, translated by Shoghi Effendi as The
Book of Certitude (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983), 186-187.
Hereafter cited as KI.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-qiná‘

9 Karím Khán Kirmání, “Risálih dar javáb-i su’álát-i Mullá Jamál-i Bábí,”
in Majma‘ al-risá’il-i fársí, 2 (Kirmán: Chápkhánih-yi Sa‘ádat-i Kirmán),
n.d., hereafter cited as “Risálih.”
10 Kirmání, “Risálih,” 210-11.
11 I am grateful to Moojan Momen for assistance in identifying this
individual.
12 Shaykh Abú’l Qásim Kirmání, Fihrist, 3rd ed. (Kirmán: Chápkhānih-yi
Sa‘ádat, n.d).
13 Asadu’lláh Fázil Mázandarání, Asrár al-áthár vol. 3 (Tehran: Mu’assasih-
yi Millí-i Ma†bú‘át-i Amrí, 124/1968), 519.
14 For more information on Mullá Jamál Burújirdí, see Asadu’lláh Fádil
Mázandarání, Tarikh-i zuhúr al-˙aqq, vol. 3 (Tehran: n.p., 1944), 300-
310.
15 Stephen N. Lambden, “Some Observations on Karím Khán’s Critique of
Bahá Alláh’s interpretation of the New Testament in the Kitáb-i íqán in
Karím Khán Kirmání’s ‘Risálih dar javáb-i su’álát-i Mullá Jamál-i
Bábí,’” unpublished paper.
16 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 66. This and all subsequent translations into English
from the LQ are provisional, and done by Sholeh A. Quinn.
17 Kirmání, Risálih, 211.
18 Kirmání, Risálih, 211.
19 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 66.
20 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 66.
21 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 67.
22Kirmání, Risálih, 211.
23 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 68.
24 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 68.
25 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 68.
26 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 68.
27 See Vahid Rafati, “Nazarí bih Law˙-i qiná‘,”174, 190.
28 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 68
29 For more information on this individual, see EI2, “al-Mukanna.”
30 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 69.
31 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 76.
32 In an important study published in the on-line journal Syzygy, available
at Stephen Lambden’s website, Dr. Will McCants has discussed a
treatise of the Báb on grammar where he addresses many of these
topics.
See
http://www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/SYZYGY/syzygy-03-
yes/Grammar%20of%20the%20Divine%20-6.htm.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven

33 In one of the most poignant portions of the Law˙-i qiná‘, Bahá’u’lláh
explains that if sorrows that had been inflicted and physical illnesses
had not prevented him, “Tablets on the divine sciences would be
written, and you would bear witness that the divine laws would
encompass earthly laws.” Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 78.
34 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-íqán, 190.
35 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 79.
36 Stephen N. Lambden, “The Bahai Interpretation of the Antichrist-Dajjal
Traditions,” Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 1/3 (1982): 3-44.
37 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 79-81.
38 Bahá’u’lláh, LQ, 81-82.

The Indispensibility of Consultation for
Ordering Human Affairs1
Ian Semple
It is sometimes difficult for the world at large to understand
why we Bahá’ís place so much emphasis on the subject of
consultation, because at first glimpse, it may seem to be just
another word for discussion, with which all people think they
are very familiar. The same illusion can also affect Bahá’ís and
prevent them from using consultation as it should be used. We
must realize that consultation is not just a technique to be
learned, but requires a development of the character of the
individuals who are involved in it. This is a striking metaphor
used by C.S. Lewis. He says that it may seem very difficult for
an egg to change into a bird, but it would be still more
difficult for it to learn to fly while remaining an egg!
If one considers what Bahá’u’lláh says about consultation,
one can see that it is infinitely more far–reaching than just an
up-to-date method of discussion. He says:
No welfare and no well–being can be attained except
through consultation. (HDW p. 3)
This series of lectures and discussions is centered on the
Universal House of Justice’s statement “The Promise of World
Peace”, from which the title of this talk is a quotation. But in
considering consultation I feel it will be helpful to proceed
from the more familiar aspect to the less familiar ones. I
proposed, therefore, to refer to three uses:
1. In Bahá’í Administration
2. In the individual life
3. In the non–Bahá’í world.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
In Bahá’í Administration
The use of consultation in Bahá’í administrative work is the
one with which we are all most familiar, but I believe we think
we are more familiar with true consultation that we really are.
Let us read that well-known passage from the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the requisites of true consultation. (You can
find it in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, #45)
The first condition is absolute love and harmony
amongst the members of the assembly. They must be
wholly free from estrangement and must manifest in
themselves the Unity of God, for they are the waves of
one sea, the drops of one river, the stars of one heaven,
the rays of one sun, the trees of one orchard, the
flowers of one garden. Should harmony of thought and
absolute unity be nonexistent, that gathering shall be
dispersed and that assembly be brought to naught. The
second condition is that the members of the assembly
should unitedly elect a chairman and lay down guide-
lines and by-laws for their meetings and discussions.
The chairman should have charge of such rules and
regulations and protect and enforce them; the other
members should be submissive, and refrain from
conversing on superfluous and extraneous matters.
They must, when coming together, turn their faces to
the Kingdom on high and ask aid from the Realm of
Glory. They must then proceed with the utmost
devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and moderation to
express their views. They must in every matter search
out the truth and not insist upon their own opinion,
for stubbornness and persistence in one’s views will
lead ultimately to discord and wrangling and the truth
will remain hidden. The honoured members must with
all freedom express their own thoughts, and it is in no
wise permissible for one to belittle the thought of
another, nay, he must with moderation set forth the
truth, and should differences of opinion arise a
majority of voices must prevail, and all must obey and
submit to the majority.

Indispensibility of Consultation
It is salutary, I think, to extract from that passage certain
qualities that the individual consultants must evince:
o purity of motive
o radiance of spirit
o detachment from all save God
o attraction to His Divine Fragrance
o humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones
o patience and long-suffering in difficulties
o servitude to His exalted Threshold
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that the members of an Assembly must
consult in such a way that “no occasion for ill-feeling or
discord may arise” and that this can be attained if:
o every member expresses his opinion and sets forth his
argument with “absolute freedom” and
o does not allow himself to feel hurt if anyone opposes.
He also says that each member should express his views with the
utmost:
o devotion
o courtesy
o dignity
o care and
o moderation
o In every matter the members must search out the truth
and not insist on their own opinions,
o and it is forbidden to belittle the thought of another.
In every case where an Assembly or group of Bahá’ís is facing
problems of disunity or unfruitful consultation one can point
to one or more of the above requisites which are not being
followed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The essence of consultation is that it is a key to the
reconciliation of opposites, and this is a characteristic of the
Cause of God. In the words of the beloved Guardian:
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause
of God is not dictatorial authority but humble
fellowship, nor arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank
and loving consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of
a true Bahá’í can hope to reconcile the principles of
mercy and justice, of freedom and submission, of the
sanctity of the right of the individual and of self-
surrender, of vigilance, discretion and prudence on the
one hand, and fellowship, candour, and courage on the
other. (PBA, p. 43)
This passage reads like a catalogue of the problems that have
beset human philosophy throughout the ages, and it gives us the
key to answering those opponents of the Faith who accuse us of
aiming to set-up a world-wide totalitarian state with the
Universal House of Justice at its head. There are, of course,
many other elements which should go into the answer to this
challenge, but that is not our subject at the moment. It is,
however, important for us to remember the degree to which the
beloved Guardian stressed the function of consultation
outside the ranks of Assembly members. For example:
Their function is not to dictate, but to consult, and
consult not only among themselves, but as much as
possible with the Friends whom they represent. (PBA, p.
43)
and the following very familiar passage:
They must, at all times, avoid the spirit of
exclusiveness,
the
atmosphere
of
secrecy,
free
themselves from a domineering attitude, and banish all
forms
of
prejudice
and
passion
from
their
deliberations. They should, within the limits of wise
discretion, take the Friends into their confidence,
acquaint them with their plans, share with them their
problems and anxieties, and seek their advice and
counsel. (PBA, p. 44)

Indispensibility of Consultation
We should continually read and re-read these passages
because sometimes one finds that an Assembly is reluctant to
share its real problems with the friends for fear of losing face
or undermining the believers' confidence in the Assembly. And
yet we can see that it is the very Assemblies who follow the
Guardian's advice which most earn the love and respect of their
communities.
In the Individual Life
The impact of consultation on the lives of individual Bahá’ís
is manifold. It involves them intimately in the functioning of
the Bahá’í Administrative Order, whether or not they are
members of institutions. It is also, as Bahá’u’lláh makes
absolutely clear, a method to which they should continually
resort in the conduct of their private lives, consulting, as need
be, with members of their families, with friends, with people
for whose opinions they have regard. Together with study of
the Writings, meditation and prayer it is the primary means
for solving problems and for smoothing the interrelationships
between people.
It is, however, more even than this. It has a direct effect on
the development of the individual's soul. It is shot through and
through with the development of individual characteristics
which should suffuse one's whole life and behaviour. It is a
school of personal development as, in a similar way, is the
institution of marriage and of the family, in which
consultation plays a special part.
Let us consider again the qualities which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls
for. Which one of these would we not apply in every aspect of
our individual lives? If the members of Spiritual Assemblies,
whom Bahá’u’lláh has referred to as the “Trustees of the
Merciful” and even as the “Deputies of God” must evince these
characteristics in the performance of their duties as “rulers” of
mankind, how should they not characterise the daily life of
every believer:
o purity of motive
o radiance of spirit

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
o detachment from all save God
o attractive to His Divine Fragrance
o humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones
o patience and long-suffering in difficulties
o servitude to His exalted Threshold
o absolute freedom in expressing one's opinion
o not feeling hurt if one's views are opposed
o devotion
o courtesy
o dignity
o care and moderation in expressing one's ideas
o refraining from belittling the views of others
There is an age-old controversy as to whether one needs a
perfect society in order to breed perfect individuals or whether
one must first train perfect individuals before one can have a
perfect society. This is resolved in the Bahá’í Faith by the
proposition that the fostering of the spiritual growth of
individuals and that of society must go hand in hand and are
mutually supportive processes. This is specially apparent in the
area of consultation, since it promotes harmony and
moderation.
It is a great problem in individual spiritual growth for the
aspiring follower of the Way to distinguish between
moderation and mediocrity. We are called to heights of
perfection higher than we can comprehend, but are exhorted to
moderation in all things. How can this be?
It is, I believe, but one aspect of the need for the individual
to promote in himself the growth of all virtues and capacities,
but in due balance one with another. When they get out of
balance, a distortion of character is produced.
The problems caused by inadequacy are obvious to us all:
carelessness in carrying out important work; lack of attention

Indispensibility of Consultation
to detail; laziness or excessive diffidence that allow golden
opportunities to pass us by; lack of dignity in the presentation
of the Faith; permitting a Bahá’í centre to fall into a state of
disrepair and dirtiness which shames the Faith in the eyes of the
public. Sometimes such problems arise because the believers
concerned are just not conscious of the standards that they
should uphold; they may have had in their upbringing no
training in good taste, cleanliness or hard work. Consultation
can draw out these aspects and help the community as a whole
to overcome them. Consultation, in other words, can bring
home to the individual the importance of excellence in all things
and the need for continued improvement. To return to C.S.
Lewis's egg metaphor; he points out that the whole purpose of
an egg is for it to become a bird. It cannot just remain for ever
a nice, decent, wholesome egg — it must either hatch, or go bad!
The problems caused by inordinately high standards are not
easy to see. Sometimes the cause of disunity is simply the
position of pride and lack of forbearance on the part of a
believer whose skills and accomplishments have turned his head;
if so, the situation may be a painful one but it is comparatively
easy to detect and to cope with, for every Bahá’í knows that
pride is a sin and forbearance a virtue.
We all know from experience, however, that it is sometimes a
devoted, self-sacrificing pioneer, or one of the most active
believers with the highest standards, who becomes the centre of
disunity and disruption in a community, without any element
of pride distorting his nature. The reason may simply be the
ardour of the believer for nothing less than the best to be
accomplished for the Cause of God. Having such high
standards himself he finds it excruciatingly difficult to submit
to consultative decisions which thinks are less than the best, or
to leave the newer believers to fumblingly carrying out actions
that he himself can execute with far greater despatch and
efficiency.
I think one of the most salutory teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is
that, for the creature, perfection is an unattainable goal. This,
properly understood, should not cause us to despair, but
should give us the enthralling prospect that, however far we
develop our capacities, there is still greater progress ahead;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
however great the joy we attain, greater joy is in store. There is
no stagnation in the Bahá’í concept of heaven. It should also
cause us to accept the imperfection of our own characters and
understanding. We must recognize that what we may see as the
perfect answer to a problem must, by definition, be imperfect,
because it is we who see it. It can, at most, be a step on the way
towards perfection and, if we could see the whole of the
journey, we might see that it would be the wrong step at that
time, even if correct in itself.
This recognition of permanent imperfection should have
two results. It should prevent us from ever being satisfied with
our progress. it should also free us from the crippling effects of
that “perfectionism” which has been a blight on many
puritanical societies. By this I don't mean a person's
determination to do the very best he can in every task — which
is admirable — but the extreme condition wherein a person
comes to believe that he must perform every task with 100%
perfection or be disgraced in his own eyes and the eyes of
others. This is a far from uncommon disability in western
society and produces the very opposite of what the individual
aims at. It is, I think, a condition against which all Bahá’ís
must be alert, because the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh hold before
us such high standards. It is a largely subconscious condition
and not at all easy to overcome.
Firstly, since it is absolutely impossible for any person to do
everything perfectly all the time, or even most of the time, this
compulsion is doomed to failure from the outset. Such a
person, therefore, subconsciously knows this, avoids failure by
refusing to undertake tasks or, if he does undertake them, often
unconsciously programs himself to fail, so that he will have a
good excuse for not succeeding. Remember that in this context
“failure” is anything less than 100%, so that such a person may,
in the eyes of his friends, be achieving all sorts of excellent
work, but in his own eyes each one is a failure. Encouragement
helps little, because it is just not believed. Since it is intolerable
for a soul to accept that he is so much of a failure, this
compulsion also causes him subconsciously to seek for reasons
for his failures in the actions of other people, and breeds in him
a tendency to criticize all around for everything they do. This,
alas, produces the reaction that they then get back at him by

Indispensibility of Consultation
criticizing him undulyu, which feeds his original fear that he is
an utter failure and exacerbated the paralysis and depression
that he feels.
Bahá’u’lláh's teachings enable us to strive for the highest
goals, confident in His confirming help, but being uncrushed
by our frequent fallings-short, because we know that it is in the
nature of the creature to fall short. We can, I think, apply to
the whole of our life the encouraging words that the beloved
Guardian wrote for the members of Spiritual Assemblies:
If we turn our gaze to the high qualifications of the
members of Bahá’í Assemblies … we are filled with
feelings of unworthiness and dismay, and would feel
truly disheartened but for the comforting thought that
if we rise to play nobly our part every deficiency in our
lives will be more than compensated by the all-
conquering spirit of His grace and power. (BA, p. 88)
This is where consultation comes in, not merely in helping us
to make a balanced decision in a particular instance, but in
daily demonstrating to a perceptive person the limitations of
his or her own understanding, the fallibility of his or her own
opinions. If approached in the proper spirit, consultation can
be a liberating and educating process for the individual in his
own life, apart altogether from being a guide to conduct.
If I may inject a personal note, I should say that one of the
most enriching experiences I have enjoyed as a member of the
Universal House of Justice has been in relation to those
decisions of which, at the time I could see neither the reason
nor the sense. I have known instances where, to my mind, a
certain course of action seemed to be both obvious and
essential, but the House of Justice has decided differently. In
every instance, of course, it has become apparent in time how
right the decision of the House of Justice was; and coming to
see this as events unfold is a thrilling and illuminating process.
Of course, one can understand this happening in relation to
a body which is divinely guided in its decisions, but, one may
ask, can one be sure that the consultative decisions of spiritual
Assemblies and committees will, likewise, produce true
moderation and balanced wisdom, and not merely that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
mediocrity which is the lowest common denominator of a
collection of private opinions. You are no doubt aware of the
crack that a camel is a horse designed by a committee.
There is in the Faith, of course, ample scope for private
initiative and thought and action. It is a vital element not only
in the life of the individual but in the administration of the
community and must never be underestimated. In itself it
could be the subject for a lecture, but today we are concerned
not with individual action but with consultation and its
indispensability. History is full of evidence of both the
benefits and drawbacks of individual action; our experience
with truly consultative action on a worldwide scale is only just
beginning; it is a characteristic of the stage of human
development which we have now reached. Bahá’u’lláh has
brought mankind to a new leap forward in its evolution, and
consultation is an integral part of this advance. It can help us
sometimes, I think, if we look at such matters from the point
of view and in the words of a non-Bahá’í philosopher who has
perceived the same truth. I want to read to you two extracts
from the writings of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. The first is
from pages 243 to 244 of The Phenomenon of Man:
But why should there be unification in the world and what
purpose does it serve?
To see the answer to this ultimate question, we have only to
put side by side the two equations which have been gradually
formulating themselves from the moment we began trying to
situate the phenomenon of man in the world.
Evolution = Rise of consciousness
Rise of consciousness = Effect of union.
The general gathering together in which, by correlated
actions of the without and the within of the earth, the totality
of thinking units and thinking forces are engaged — the
aggregation in a single block of a mankind whose fragments
weld together and interpenetrate before our eyes in spite of
((indeed in proportion to) their efforts to separate — all this
becomes intelligible from top to bottom as soon as we perceive
the natural culmination of a cosmic processus of organisation

Indispensibility of Consultation
which has never varied since those remote ages when our planet
was young.
First the molecules of carbon compounds with their
thousands of atoms symmetrically grouped; next the cell which,
at the very smallest, contains thousands of molecules linked in
a complicated system; then the metazoa in which the cell is no
more than an almost infinitesimal element; and later the
manifold attempts made by the metazoa to enter into
symbiosis and raise themselves to a higher biological condition.
And now, as a germination of planetary dimensions, comes
the thinking layer which to its full extent develops and
intertwines its fibres, not to confuse and neutralise them but
to reinforce them in the living unity of a single tissue.
Really I can see no coherent, and therefore scientific , way of
grouping this immense succession of facts but as a gigantic
psycho-biological operation, a sort of mega-synthesis, the
'super-arrangement' to which all the thinking elements of the
earth find themselves today individually and collective subject.
You see what he is saying: that the theme of evolution is the
rise of consciousness, and that this is produced as a result of
ever more complex unions of elements. At the present stage in
evolution it is we individual human beings who are the
elements, and by our combination into one united mankind,
we produce, the next level of evolved complexity which gives
birth to a higher level of consciousness. He develops this point
on page 251 of the same book:
We are faced with a harmonised collectivity of
consciousness
equivalent
to
a
sort
of
super-
consciousness. The idea is that of the earth not only
becoming covered by myriads of grains of thought, but
becoming enclosed in a single thinking envelope so as
to form, functionally, no more than a single vast grain
of thought on the sidereal scale, the plurality of
individual reflections grouping themselves together and
reinforcing one another in the act of a single
unanimous reflection.
Does this not give us new insights into Bahá’u’lláh's
tremendous statement: “For everything there is and will

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
continue to be a station of perfection and maturity. The
maturity of the gift of understanding is made manifest
through consultation.”
Far from being a process of obscuring understanding or
reducing individual insights to a level of mediocrity,
consultation makes manifest the “maturity of the gift of
understanding.” Through it the puny mind of each of us is
linked with the minds of our fellows and, through the
institutions of the Administrative Order with all Bahá’ís on
earth. Should we wonder that it is through the Assemblies, the
House of Justice, that Bahá’u’lláh has ordained the government
of the world?
Consultation is a tremendously exciting process. It links us
all to one-another and to God in one vast organism that enables
us to rise above ourselves while, at the same time, developing
our own individual natures to their fullest capacities.
In the non-Bahá’í World
This brings us to the third use of consultation, in the non-
Bahá’í world. Clearly, if it is a basic element of the next stage in
human evolution it should be a fundamental tool to assist all
human beings to resolve their problems. Even though, since
they do not accept Bahá’u’lláh, non-Bahá’ís will lack certain
vital elements of the spiritual attitudes which should
characterize true consultation, they can well accept and
practice most of its principles to great advantage. Indeed, by
what other method are they to resolve their disagreements and
find answers to the problems facing a disordered world?
There are many schemes for a perfect world around, and have
been for centuries. There are many people nowadays who see
essential goals that mankind must achieve. The stumbling block
is what we are to do to attain them.
I recall in this connection a story that may be familiar to
many of you, but it's rather striking here.
A man on a hiking holiday one day found himself lost in a
country lane, and coming upon a countryman asked him how
to get to Gloucester. The man thought for a while and then

Indispensibility of Consultation
said: “Well, you could go down this lane, turn left by the pub
and then right — no, that wouldn't do it. I tell you, go across
this field by the footpath through yon wood until you come to
Baker's farm — no, that wouldn't help either. No, you have to
go back the way you came to the main road and catch the next
bus to Plumpington — no, that wouldn't help you either. I tell
'ee, if I wanted to get to Gloucester I wouldn't start from
here!”
That's a bit like the problem of those who want world peace
now. It would be so much easier if we didn't have to start from
here!
This is where the twin principles of consultation and the
independent investigation of truth show us the way out.
Let us inflict upon you one more quotation from Teilhard de
Chardin. This time from pages 74-75 of The Future of Man:
Gloriously situated by life at this critical point in the
evolution of Mankind, what ought we to do? We hold
Earth's future in our hands. What shall we decide?
In my view, the road to be followed is clearly revealed by the
teaching of all the past.
We can progress only by uniting: this, as we have seen, is the
law of life. But unification, through coercion leads only to a
superficial pseudo-unity. It may establish a mechanism, but it
does not achieve any fundamental synthesis; and in
consequence it engenders no growth of consciousness. It
materializes, in short, instead of spiritualising. Only
unification through unanimity is biologically valid. This alone
can work the miracle of causing heightened personality to
emerge from the forces of collectivity. It alone represents a
genuine extension of the psychogenesis that gave us birth.
Therefore it is inwardly that we must come together, and in
entire freedom.
But this brings us to the last question of all. To create this
unanimity, we need the bond, as I said, the cement of a
favouring influence. Where shall we look for it; how shall we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
conceive of this principle of togetherness, this soul of the
Earth?
Is it to be in the development of a common vision, that is to
say, the establishment of a universally accepted body of
knowledge, in which all intelligences will join in knowing the
same facts interpreted the same way?
Or will it rather be in common action, in the determination
of an Objective universally recognised as being so desirable
that all activity will naturally converge towards it under the
impulse of a common fear and a common ambition?
These two kinds of unanimity are undoubtedly real, and will,
I believe, have their place in our future progress. But they need
to be complemented by something else if they are not to remain
precarious, insufficient, and incomplete. A common body of
knowledge brings together nothing but the geometrical point of
intelligences. A common aspiration, no matter how ardent,
can only touch individuals indirectly and in an impersonal way
that is depersonalising in itself.
It is not a tête-à-tête or corps-à-corps that we need; it is a
heart-to-heart.
This being so, the more I consider the fundamental question
of the future of the earth, the more it appears to me that the
generative principle of its unification is finally to be sought,
not in the sole contemplation of a single Truth or in the sole
desire for a single Thing, but in the common attraction
exercised by a single Being. For on the one hand, if the synthesis
of the Spirit is to be brought about in its entirety (and this is
the only possible definition of progress) it can only be done, in
the last resort, through the meeting, centre to centre, of human
units, such as can only be realised in a universal, mutual love.
And on the other hand there is but one possible way in which
human elements, innumerably diverse by nature, can love one
another; it is by knowing themselves all to be centered upon a
single 'super-centre' common to all, to which they can only
attain, each at the extreme of himself, through their unity.
I am sure that everyone of us can immediately see that in the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh we have the God-given requirements
of a common vision, a united course of action and, above all

Indispensibility of Consultation
that Being Who is the mainspring and central point of
attraction of all.
In our collaboration with our fellow human beings it is
above all in the fields of common action that we shall be able to
impart to them the common vision and thence to lead them to
the knowledge of the Being of Bahá’u’lláh.
We
cannot
just
say
that
Communism,
Racialism,
Nationalism and all the other manmade ideologies should go
away, any more than we can wish away the centuries-old
structures raised by mankind on the bases of the ancient
Revelations of God. But, in view of the great and terrible perils
which can no longer be ignored, we shall find more and more
people of all views and opinions who are willing to sit down
and consult upon specific actions to be taken to overcome
specific problems. As this process advances, as they learn
through experience the benefits of consultation, as they see the
Bahá’í teachings in operation, problem after problem will be
overcome and mankind will have started on the road to the
total restructuring of human society.
Consultation, therefore, is indispensable for the ordering of
human affairs in three areas.
It is the most vital technique that Bahá’ís must learn for the
efficient and Bahá’í-like running of Bahá’í communities , which
together form the nucleus and pattern of the new World Order;
it is one of the most potent means for the learning of those
virtues which are essential for the spiritual development of
individual human beings and their harmonious inter-
relationship; and it is one of the most strikingly beneficial of
the Bahá’í teachings to which we can introduce our non-Bahá’í
friends and fellow-workers in every field. It is a tool that they
can use to solve problems at every level, it is an avenue by which
they can come to appreciate the truth of the Bahá’í way of life,
and it is the only way by which minds raised in different
traditions can find a common meeting-place.
As we began with a quotation from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, I would like to finish by reading three, for in these
three short passages alone is inspiration for whole courses of
study:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
The Great Being saith: The heaven of divine wisdom is
illumined with the two luminaries of consultation and
compassion. Take ye counsel together in all matters,
inasmuch as consultation is the lamp of guidance
which leadeth the way, and is the bestower of
understanding.
Say: no man can attain his true station except through
his justice. No power can exist except through unity.
No welfare and no well-being can be attained except
through consultation.
Consultation
bestoweth
greater
awareness
and
transmuteth conjecture into certitude. It is a shining
light which, in a dark world, leadeth the way and
guideth. For everything there is and will continue to be
a station of perfection and maturity. The maturity of
the gift of understanding is made manifest through
consultation.

NOTES
1 A talk given by Ian Semple on 1985.12.20 and 1986.01.03 at Seminars held
in the multipurpose room of the Seat of the Universal House of
Justice)


Elucidations
Guardianship and the Universal House of
Justice
(Translated from Persian)
18 February 2008
Transmitted by email
The Friends in Iran
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
We have received a letter from a believer in Iran with
questions about the Guardianship and the Universal House of
Justice. We appreciate that firmness in the Covenant is among
the distinctive characteristics of the believers in that land, who
are informed of the principles and essential facts pertaining to
the succession of authority in the Cause. Nevertheless, none
among them should hesitate to seek clarification of matters
about which they have questions, for the enemies of the Faith
are tireless in their attempts to sow seeds of confusion and
doubt. Moreover, it is beneficial, in view of the beloved
Master’s exhortations to us all to be ever-vigilant concerning
matters of protection, for the friends to review the relevant
essentials from time to time. We have therefore decided to
provide you with the following comments. In this connection,
you are also encouraged to reacquaint yourselves with the
document “Mason Remey and Those Who Followed Him”, a
statement prepared at our instruction by an ad hoc committee.
A translation of the statement is enclosed.
Questions concerning the Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice can be resolved through careful study of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and
the elucidations of the House of Justice, which, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states, will “deliberate upon all problems which have caused
difference, questions that are obscure and matters that are not
expressly recorded in the Book. Whatsoever they decide,” He
assures the friends, “has the same effect as the Text itself.”
Prior to the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1921, the provisions
He had put in place in His Will and Testament to safeguard the
Faith and ensure its steady advancement into the future were
generally unknown. The believers anticipated a day when the
Universal House of Justice would be established since it had
been specifically mentioned in the Sacred Texts. There was,
however, no definite understanding that there would be a
Guardian. Indeed, Shoghi Effendi later indicated that he had
no foreknowledge of the position to which he would be called.
At most, he had reportedly thought the Will and Testament
might charge him, as the eldest grandson of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, with
responsibility for arranging for the election of the House of
Justice. Only after the reading of the Will did the institution
of the Guardianship become widely known, and the Bahá’í
community worldwide acknowledged Shoghi Effendi as the
Head of the Faith to whom all must turn.
An attentive reading of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will makes it clear
that He did not indicate a predestined outcome but did
provide for a number of circumstances which, depending
on future conditions, might eventually confront the Faith. The
second section of the Will, for instance, which refers only to
the Universal House of Justice, with no mention of the
Guardianship, was written at a time when His own life was in
imminent danger and Shoghi Effendi was but a small boy.
During that same period, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had made arrangements
for the election of the Universal House of Justice to take place
immediately, should the threat on His life materialize. Through
the grace of God, the crisis passed, and it was ultimately left to
Shoghi Effendi many years later, as Guardian and Head of the
Faith, to determine the timing of the formation of the House
of Justice. Early on he considered the possibility of holding
the election soon after the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in which
case the House of Justice and the Guardian would have
functioned simultaneously. He determined, of course, that the

Elucidations
foundations of the Administrative Order needed first to be
firmly laid at the local and national levels, and it eventually
transpired that the House of Justice was established several
years after his own passing. That the transition from the
ministry of the Guardian to the election of the Universal House
of Justice occurred with such relative ease can, itself, be
attributed to the way certain provisions in the Will were
formulated.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament clearly allows for the
possibility of a successor to Shoghi Effendi, and in this light,
we find statements written by him or on his behalf over
the course of his thirty-six-year ministry that envision future
Guardians. However, there are no assurances in the Writings
that the line of Guardians would continue throughout the
Dispensation; rather, the possibility is envisaged that such a
line would come to an end. In this respect, Bahá’u’lláh states in
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
Endowments dedicated to charity revert to God, the
Revealer of Signs. None hath the right to dispose of
them without leave from Him Who is the Dawning-
place of Revelation. After Him, this authority shall
pass to the Aghßán, and after them to the House of
Justice — should it be established in the world by then
— that they may use these endowments for the benefit
of the Places which have been exalted in this Cause, and
for whatsoever hath been enjoined upon them by Him
Who is the God of might and power. Otherwise, the
endowments shall revert to the people of Bahá who
speak not except by His leave and judge not save in
accordance with what God hath decreed in this Tablet
— lo, they are the champions of victory betwixt heaven
and earth — that they may use them in the manner that
hath been laid down in the Book by God, the Mighty,
the Bountiful.
The passing of Shoghi Effendi precipitated the situation
described, in which the authority vested in the Aghßán — first
in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and then in Shoghi Effendi — ended before the
House of Justice was established.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
In His Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá specifies in the
clearest terms the conditions according to which Shoghi
Effendi was to have named his successor as Guardian:
O ye beloved of the Lord! It is incumbent upon the
guardian of the Cause of God to appoint in his own
life-time him that shall become his successor, that
differences may not arise after his passing. He that is
appointed must manifest in himself detachment from
all worldly things, must be the essence of purity, must
show in himself the fear of God, knowledge, wisdom
and learning. Thus, should the first-born of the
guardian of the Cause of God not manifest in himself
the truth of the words: — ”The child is the secret essence
of its sire,” that is, should he not inherit of the
spiritual within him (the guardian of the Cause of God)
and his glorious lineage not be matched with a goodly
character, then must he, (the guardian of the Cause of
God) choose another branch to succeed him.
The Hands of the Cause of God must elect from their
own number nine persons that shall at all times be
occupied in the important services in the work of the
guardian of the Cause of God. The election of these
nine must be carried either unanimously or by majority
from the company of the Hands of the Cause of God
and these, whether unanimously or by a majority vote,
must give their assent to the choice of the one whom
the guardian of the Cause of God hath chosen as his
successor. This assent must be given in such wise as the
assenting
and
dissenting
voices
may
not
be
distinguished (i.e., secret ballot).
The personal views of any individual regarding the above
statement, no matter how learned, cannot compare with the
Guardian’s infallible understanding of the passage. Shoghi
Effendi, who faithfully adhered to the wishes of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá throughout his ministry, would never have been
careless in a matter so essential to the integrity of the Faith
as the question of the appointment of his successor. It is
unthinkable that he would appoint someone to succeed him
who did not possess the qualifications laid down by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá in His Will. It is equally untenable to suggest that he

Elucidations
would do so in a manner which deviated from the explicit
requirements in that same document, which included the
affirmation of his choice by nine designated Hands of the
Cause of God, so that “differences” would “not arise after his
passing.” How perverse the suggestion of the violators of the
Covenant that Shoghi Effendi would ignore the Master’s
instructions and make a veiled and indirect appointment of his
successor! Rather should the fact that Shoghi Effendi did not
name a successor be seen as a sign of his meticulous adherence
to every word of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and an indication of his
conclusion that there was no qualified individual whom he
could appoint.
Therefore, it should be clear to every steadfast follower of
Bahá’u’lláh that the end of the line of Guardians was not the
result of any decision or action taken by the Hands of the
Cause of God following the sudden passing of Shoghi Effendi.
The line was brought to a close when, compelled by existing
circumstances and the strict provisions of the Will, Shoghi
Effendi did not name a successor. To entertain the possibility
that it may one day be re-established is futile. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
wrote that “ere the expiration of a thousand years, no one has
the right to utter a single word, even to claim the station of
Guardianship.” And in the same passage He exhorted the
friends, “Should there be differences of opinion, the Supreme
House of Justice would immediately resolve the problems.” The
Universal House of Justice, soon after its formation, stated
that it “finds that there is no way to appoint or to legislate to
make it possible to appoint a second Guardian to succeed
Shoghi Effendi.”
While the line of Guardians has ended, the Covenant is
preserved. The vast body of interpretations of Shoghi Effendi
informs the decisions of the Universal House of Justice as the
Faith continues its onward march. The unity of the Faith is
safeguarded, and the realization of Bahá’u’lláh’s great purpose
for humanity assured. “The Hand of Omnipotence hath
established His Revelation upon an unassailable, an enduring
foundation,” Bahá’u’lláh has stated. “Storms of human strife
are powerless to undermine its basis, nor will men’s fanciful
theories succeed in damaging its structure.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
* * *
With reference to the specific questions raised in the letter
we have received, one concerns the meaning of the designation
“Aghßán”, as found in the Writings. While in some cases, as
affirmed by the Guardian, the term applies specifically to
Bahá’u’lláh’s sons, at other times it is used more broadly to
include His male descendants. For example, in His Will and
Testament ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to Shoghi Effendi as “the chosen
branch” (Ghußn-i-Mumtáz). The reference to Shoghi Effendi as
Ghußn here — the singular form of Aghßán — follows the usage
of Bahá’u’lláh in relation to the titles He gave His sons, that is,
the Most Great Branch, the Greater Branch, and the Purest
Branch. A letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi explains
that the word Aghßán “refers to Bahá’u’lláh’s descendants”;
another describes Hussein Rabbani, the Guardian’s brother, as
“the grandchild of the Master, an Afnán and Aghßán mentioned
in the Will and Testament of the Master.” It is evident, then,
that the designation Aghßán, or Ghußn, includes Shoghi Effendi
and the other male descendants of Bahá’u’lláh.
If, at any time, male descendants of Bahá’u’lláh appear who
are faithful to the Covenant, it would nevertheless not be
possible for any of them to occupy the office of Guardian, for,
as already explained, in the absence of appointment by Shoghi
Effendi, they cannot claim the station of Guardianship and
there is no way for one to be named to it by an act of the
House of Justice.
* * *
Another query concerns the establishment of the Universal
House of Justice. Specifically, the question has been asked
whether the functioning of an “officially recognized”
International Bahá’í Court in the Holy Land, mentioned by
Shoghi Effendi, was an essential preliminary step in the
evolution of the Universal House of Justice.
As you are no doubt aware, Shoghi Effendi explained that
“‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Himself, in one of His earliest Tablets,
contemplated the possibility of the formation of the Universal
House of Justice in His own lifetime.” The Master described

Elucidations
the requirements necessary for its formation, which did not
include the establishment of a religious court:
The Supreme House of Justice should be elected
according to the system followed in the election of the
parliaments of Europe. And when the countries would
be guided the Houses of Justice of the various
countries would elect the Supreme House of Justice.
At whatever time all the beloved of God in each country
appoint their delegates, and these in turn elect their
representatives, and these representatives elect a body,
that body shall be regarded as the Supreme House of
Justice.
The establishment of that House is not dependent upon
the conversion of all the nations of the world. For
example, if conditions were favourable and no
disturbances would be caused, the friends in Persia
would
elect
their
representatives,
and
likewise
the friends in America, in India, and other areas would
also elect their representatives, and these would elect a
House of Justice. That House of Justice would be the
Supreme House of Justice. That is all.
Over the thirty-six years of his ministry, as he guided the
Bahá’í world, striving to lay the foundations of the
Administrative Order, Shoghi Effendi outlined specific
developmental steps to be taken, which were intended to lead to
the eventual establishment of the Universal House of Justice.
The accomplishment of some depended largely on the exertions
of the believers themselves — an increase in the number of Local
and National Spiritual Assemblies, the appointment of the
International Bahá’í Council and its evolution into an elected
body. Others, however, were subject to the forces operating in
society and, no matter what the efforts made by the Bahá’í
community, could not be accomplished.
In 1929, for instance, the Guardian stated, “given favorable
circumstances, under which the Bahá’ís of Persia and of the
adjoining countries under Soviet rule may be enabled to elect
their national representatives … the only remaining obstacle in
the way of the definite formation of the International House

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
of Justice will have been removed.” Later, following the
expulsion of Bahá’ís from Russia by the authorities, a letter
written on his behalf explained, “At the time he referred to
Russia there were Bahá’ís there, now the Community has
practically ceased to exist; therefore the formation of the
International House of Justice cannot depend on a Russian
National Spiritual Assembly.”
In the same way, goals were specified by Shoghi Effendi for
the establishment of Bahá’í courts, including national courts in
certain countries in Asia and, as a step in the development
of the International Bahá’í Council, the precursor to the
Universal House of Justice, a court in the Holy Land.
Recognition by the Egyptian government of the National
Spiritual Assembly as an independent Bahá’í court was sought
as far back as 1929. Over time, changing conditions rendered
the formation of such religious courts impossible. As the
Hands of the Cause of God commented in 1959 in calling for
the election of the International Bahá’í Council and the
eventual establishment of the House of Justice,
We wish to assure the believers that every effort will be
made to establish a Bahá’í Court in the Holy Land prior
to the date set for this election. We should however
bear in mind that the Guardian himself clearly
indicated this goal, due to the strong trend towards the
secularization of Religious Courts in this part of
the world, might not be achieved.
* * *
Yet another question that has been raised concerns the
discharge by the Universal House of Justice of certain
functions previously performed by the Guardian. With regard
to Óuqúqu’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained that “Disposition
of the Óuqúq, wholly or partly, is permissible, but this should
be done by permission of the authority in the Cause to whom
all must turn.” Likewise, the expulsion of Covenant-breakers is
an obligation exercised by the Head of the Faith in the context
of the duty to protect the Cause from those who would seek
to undermine its unity. Shoghi Effendi, it is well known, was
obliged to expel Covenant-breakers from the Faith at different
points throughout his ministry, both before and after the

Elucidations
appointment of the Hands of the Cause of God. This
responsibility now falls on the Universal House of Justice, as
the centre of authority to whom all must turn. The current
procedures followed in this respect are outlined in the
statement “The Institution of the Counsellors”.
In this connection it should be noted that after the passing
of Shoghi Effendi, although overwhelmed with grief, the Bahá’í
world maintained its unity during the tenuous period between
his ministry and the election of the Universal House of Justice.
The sole challenge to its integrity appeared some two years after
his death when Charles Mason Remey, who was at that time one
of the Hands of the Cause, laid claim to the Guardianship. As
you are aware, Remey asserted that his appointment in 1951 as
president of the nascent International Bahá’í Council meant
that he should automatically assume the position of head of the
Universal House of Justice and was, therefore, the second
Guardian.
The absurdity of Remey’s claim is obvious and requires little
elaboration. In 1957, he was among the Hands of the Cause
who gathered in the Holy Land to consider what course of
action should be taken following the unexpected passing of the
Guardian. He personally affirmed that Shoghi Effendi had
appointed
no
successor,
signing
a
document
issued
unanimously by the Hands to this effect. As signatory to yet
another such document, he agreed that the entire body of the
Hands of the Cause would determine when and how the
evolution of the International Bahá’í Council would culminate
in the election of the House of Justice. For two years, as one of
the nine Hands designated to serve in the Holy Land, he
participated in the consultations that guided the development
of the Bahá’í community. Then, without notice or discussion
with his fellow Hands, he claimed the station of Guardianship,
lacking explicit appointment by Shoghi Effendi as specified in
the Will and Testament and in direct violation of the command
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that no one could make such a claim.
Exercising the authority conferred on them in accordance with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will, the Hands of the Cause expelled him from
the Faith as a Covenant-breaker.
* * *

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
In matters related to the Covenant, the friends must be firm
and steadfast; they should be wary, lest the arguments put
forward by those who sow seeds of doubt become the cause for
confusion or lead to disputation and disunity. Should
questions arise that cannot be resolved, they should be placed
immediately before the Universal House of Justice. The friends
must be especially careful to avoid being enticed by the
whisperings of the remnants of the Covenant-breakers and their
supporters, who seek to shake the believers’ faith. Whereas in
the past the violators of the Covenant sought to undermine the
authority of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi,
today they challenge the Universal House of Justice. Of
particular concern are those who, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá warns,
“assert their firmness and steadfastness in the Covenant but
when they come across responsive ears they secretly sow the
seeds of suspicion.”
Remey’s small band of associates, bedevilled by half a
century of infighting among competing factions, have had
negligible effect on the progress of the Faith. The flurry caused
by their actions does nothing more than shake a few lifeless
twigs and leaves from the tree of the Cause. Those who are
naïve, those who are not deepened in the Teachings or not firm
in the Covenant, those who are controlled by their egos and lust
for leadership can be misled and fall away. The friends are
urged to protect themselves and their community by adhering
strictly to the emphatic exhortations repeated throughout the
Sacred Texts. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn and all
that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred
to the Universal House of Justice. That which this
body, whether unanimously or by a majority doth
carry, that is verily the Truth and the Purpose of God
Himself. Whoso doth deviate therefrom is verily of
them that love discord, hath shown forth malice and
turned away from the Lord of the Covenant. By this
House is meant that Universal House of Justice which
is to be elected from all countries, that is from those
parts in the East and West where the loved ones are to
be found, after the manner of the customary elections
in Western countries such as those of England….

Elucidations
And now, one of the greatest and most fundamental
principles of the Cause of God is to shun and avoid
entirely the Covenant-breakers, for they will utterly
destroy the Cause of God, exterminate His Law and
render of no account all efforts exerted in the past. O
friends! It behooveth you to call to mind with
tenderness the trials of His Holiness, the Exalted One,
and show your fidelity to the Ever-Blest Beauty. The
utmost endeavour must be exerted lest all these woes,
trials and afflictions, all this pure and sacred blood
that hath been shed so profusely in the Path of God,
may prove to be in vain….
O ye beloved of the Lord! Strive with all your heart to
shield the Cause of God from the onslaught of the
insincere, for souls such as these cause the straight to
become crooked and all benevolent efforts to produce
contrary results.
The believers in the Cradle of the Faith, who have withstood
for more than a century the onslaught of government and
clergy, who triumphed over the perils posed by the rebellions of
Azal and Mu˙ammad ‘Alí, who severed themselves from those
who opposed Shoghi Effendi, will easily discount the spurious
and ridiculous arguments of those few individuals who vie
among themselves to exploit Remey’s deviation as a pretext for
attracting a handful of personal followers. Be assured of our
supplications at the Holy Threshold on behalf of the beloved
friends everywhere in that sacred land.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
[signed: The Universal House of Justice]

Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
(Translation from Persian)
Extract from a letter dated 20 May 2007 to the Friends in Iran
from the Department of the Secretariat
Your letter dated 15 January 2007, containing two
questions, one regarding the correspondence received from the
Bahá’í World Centre and the other concerning the infallibility
of the Universal House of Justice, has been received and
submitted to the House of Justice. We have been asked to
convey the following.
As to whether there is a distinction between correspondence
from the World Centre that has been signed “The Universal
House of Justice” and that signed on behalf of the Department
of the Secretariat, in brief, the manner in which each of these
letters is prepared depends upon the contents of the letter. On
some occasions the Universal House of Justice communicates
directly over its own signature. It generally communicates with
the institutions of the Faith and the believers through its
Secretariat on the basis of decisions and policies determined in
its consultations. Hence, communications conveyed over the
signature of the Department of the Secretariat are authorized
by the House of Justice.
You have stated that believers have asked, “Are the decisions
of the Universal House of Justice free from error even if
incorrect information has been provided to it?” The
infallibility of the House of Justice, like that of the Guardian,
is “conferred”, as distinct from the infallibility of the
Manifestation of God, which is “innate”. The House of
Justice, like the Guardian, is not omniscient; when called upon
to make a decision, it wants to receive information and facts
and at times consults experts on the subject. Like him, it may
well change its decision when new facts emerge or in light of
changed conditions.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
In the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on this
matter, there is no reference to the nature and extent of the
information to which the House of Justice should have access
when making its decisions. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
Let it not be imagined that the House of Justice will
take any decision according to its own concepts and
opinions. God forbid! The Supreme House of Justice
will take decisions and establish laws through the
inspiration and confirmation of the Holy Spirit.
Again, He says:
Whatever will be its decision, by majority vote, shall be
the real truth, inasmuch as that House is under the
protection, unerring guidance, and care of the one true
Lord. He shall guard it from error and will protect it
under the wing of His sanctity and infallibility.
Bahá’ís, of course, may seek the views of the House of
Justice about its decisions if they feel they have new
information or that conditions have changed but in doing so
should avoid the temptation to use this as an excuse to evade
their obligation to obey and thus deprive themselves of the
bounty of full obedience.

7 April 2008



Transmitted by email
The Friends in Iran
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
Further to the letter to you of 18 February 2008 concerning the Guardianship and the
Universal House of Justice, we have been requested to provide the comments below on a
related matter.  It seems that questions have arisen regarding the infallibility of the House of
Justice, in light of the presentation of the topic by Dr. Udo Schaefer, a well-known Bahá’í in
Germany, whose publications have been translated and circulated in Iran.

In his book “Making the Crooked Straight” and in other publications, Dr. Schaefer
offers his personal views on infallibility as it pertains to the Universal House of Justice.  In an
effort to defend the Faith and explain the concept in a manner acceptable to a sceptical world,
he suggests that the infallibility of the House of Justice is confined to the sphere of legislation.
He argues further that, as far as he can discern, the House of Justice has legislated only a small
number of times, in each case, according to him, on an issue of “universal relevance” through
a decision-making process that did not need to draw on any information obtained from fallible
sources.  Unfortunately, some have taken his conclusions another step, suggesting that believers
are obliged to obey the House of Justice only in matters that fall within the narrow range of
such enactments.

In general, the House of Justice wishes to preserve the widest possible latitude for the
friends to explore the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and to share their individual understanding
of the Teachings.  Yet it must be remembered that, with regard to deductions drawn from the
Texts, the Master clearly states:

…the deductions and conclusions of individual learned men have no authority,
unless they are endorsed by the House of Justice.  The difference is precisely this,
that from the conclusions and endorsements of the body of the House of Justice
whose members are elected by and known to the worldwide Bahá’í community, no
differences will arise; whereas the conclusions of individual divines and scholars
would definitely lead to differences, and result in schism, division, and dispersion.
The oneness of the Word would be destroyed, the unity of the Faith would disappear,
and the edifice of the Faith of God would be shaken.

The Universal House of Justice does not intend at this time to elaborate further on
previous explanations given of its duties and powers.  That the House of Justice itself does
not find it necessary to do so should alert the friends as to the unwisdom of their attempting
to define so precisely its sphere of action.  Nevertheless, it should be mentioned that, while

The Friends in Iran
7 April 2008
Page 2


there are explicit passages in the authoritative texts that make reference to the infallibility
of the House of Justice in the enactment of legislation, the argument that it is free from error
only in this respect is untenable.  Surely, the many emphatic statements found in the Writings,
such as the following excerpt from the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, should suffice to
dismiss any claims of this kind:

The sacred and youthful branch, the guardian of the Cause of God as well as
the Universal House of Justice, to be universally elected and established, are both
under the care and protection of the Abhá Beauty, under the shelter and unerring
guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One (may my life be offered up for them
both).  Whatsoever they decide is of God.  Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth
them, hath not obeyed God; whoso rebelleth against him and against them hath
rebelled against God; whoso opposeth him hath opposed God; whoso contendeth
with them hath contended with God….

Apart from the question of infallibility, there is the matter of authority.  A letter written
on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states:  “It is not for individual believers to limit the sphere of the
Guardian’s authority, or to judge when they have to obey the Guardian and when they are free
to reject his judgement.  Such an attitude would evidently lead to confusion and to schism.”  In
regard to the Universal House of Justice, the same understanding applies.
Infallibility is a profound spiritual concept inherent in the Bahá’í Writings.  In meditating
upon the relevant passages, the believers will naturally reach their own understanding of the
subject.  Individual opinions, however, should not be imposed on others, nor so promoted
as to crystallize into doctrines not found in the explicit Text.  When exchanging views about
the Universal House of Justice—the body to which all things must be referred—the friends
should exercise care lest they go to extremes, by either diminishing its station or assigning to
it exaggerated attributes.  What better admonition to heed in a matter of this nature than that
given by the beloved Master, when some believers fell into disagreement about His own station:
These discussions will yield no result or benefit:  we must set all such debates and
controversies entirely aside—nay, we must consign them to oblivion and arise to
accomplish that which is enjoined and required in this Day.  These debates are mere
words bereft of inner meaning; they are mere illusions and not reality.

That which is true and real is this:  that we become united and agreed in
our purpose and arise to flood this darksome world with light, to banish enmity
and foreignness from among the children of men, to perfume and revive the world
with the sanctified breezes of the character and conduct of the Abhá Beauty, to
cast the light of divine guidance upon East and West, to raise the tabernacle of the
love of God and gather all people under its sheltering shadow, to confer peace and
composure upon every soul beneath the shade of the blessed Tree, to show forth
such love as to astonish the enemy, to turn ravenous and bloodthirsty wolves into
the gazelles of the meadows of the love of God, to cause the oppressor to taste the
sweet savour of meekness, to teach them that kill the submission and acquiescence
of those that suffer themselves to be killed, to spread abroad the verses of the one
true God, to extol the virtues and perfections of the all-glorious Lord, to raise to the
highest heaven the cry of “O Thou the Glory of Glories!”, and to cause the call of

The Friends in Iran
7 April 2008
Page 3


“The earth will shine with the light of her Lord!”1 to reach the ears of the denizens
of His Kingdom.

The House of Justice appeals to the friends not to become embroiled in the kind of
fruitless theological discussions that caused conflict and contention in past dispensations, lest
they lose sight of their responsibility to promulgate the oneness of humanity and of the role of
the Covenant established by Bahá’u’lláh in uniting minds, hearts, and souls.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat
cc: International Teaching Centre
Counsellor Jabbar Eidelkhani




1 Qur’án 39:69.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
abbreviations used in this book*

DGE
Hans Küng, Declaration Towards a Global Ethic
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words
KA
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-ˆqán
LQ
Bahá’u’lláh. Law˙-i qiná‘
PB
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PBA
Compilation, Principles of Bahá’í Administration
Q
Qur’án
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SV
Bahá’u’lláh. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TB
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters

*
See
a
complete
list
of
abbreviations
at
http://bahai-
library.com/?file=abbreviations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Ten
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity

Appendices
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-
baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-
i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden

Appendices
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge

Appendices
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat
Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge.
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati.
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions
in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
'Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia

Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions
(Oxford: George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of `Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to Book
Ten, 2000 - 2009
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safini-yi Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in Persian). Books one to Book
Twelve, 1998 - 2009
Farah
Dustdar
(ed.),
Beiträge
des
‘Irfán–Kolloquiums:
Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in
German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í Verlag,
2004 - 2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, 2004
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalil-i Áftáb, The proof of the Sun
is the Sun (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven
Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950
Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bosch Bahá’í School, Bookshop

500 Comstock Lane, Santa Cruz, CA 95060–9677

Tel.: (831) 423-3387
Fax: (831) 423-7564
E-mail: bosch@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921
Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag, Benzweg 4, 64293 Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170

Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de