THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1984-01-02

To the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in every Land

Dearly loved Friends,

385.1 The gathering of the representatives of the Bahá’í world at the International Convention last Riḍván was held in an atmosphere charged with awareness of the sacrifices being made by our fellow believers in Iran and with eager anticipation of the new prospects opening before the Cause as a result of changing conditions in the world, the widespread publicity that the Faith has received in all continents, and the growing maturity of its administrative institutions. 385.2 During the succeeding eight months we have been developing the agencies and formulating the plans to enable the Faith to seize the unprecedented opportunities now before it, but we are confronted with a shortage of funds which, if not remedied, could frustrate these plans.  For the last two years there has been a decline in the amount of contributions to the international funds of the Faith, and we note that many national funds also are facing the danger of deficits. Four Areas Requiring Immediate Action 385.3 Beyond carrying on the general work of the Cause there are four areas where immediate action is required.

385.4 The first is the completion of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkárs in India and Samoa.  Any delay in this work can but make it more expensive and also seriously injure the reputation of the Faith in these two vital areas.

385.5 The second is the development of the World Center, the focal point of the entire Administrative Order of the Faith where, in the words of Shoghi Effendi, “the dust of its Founders reposes, where the processes disclosing its purposes, energizing its life and shaping its destiny all originate.”

385.6 The third is in the prosecution of programs of social and economic development.  Bahá’í communities in many lands have attained a size and complexity that both require and make possible the implementation of a range of activities for their social and economic development which will not only be of immense value for the consolidation of these communities and the development of their Bahá’í life, but will also benefit the wider communities within which they are embedded and will demonstrate the beneficial effects of the Bahá’í Message to the critical gaze of the world.  Funds for the initiation and carrying out of these projects will be dispensed 491very gradually and with great care in order not to undermine the natural growth and sense of responsibility of these communities, but the field is so vast, the opportunities so far-reaching, that the need will stretch the resources of the Cause to the uttermost.

385.7 The fourth area is in the development and coordination of worldwide efforts to present to a far more extensive audience than ever before the divine remedy for the problems besetting society and its individual members, to establish the universality of the Faith and the implications of its teachings in the eyes of statesmen, and to ensure that the leaders of thought become thoroughly aware of the Bahá’í Revelation and the profundity of its message. 385.8 The work on the Temples is already well advanced and must not be stopped; the development of the agencies of the World Center, located in one of the principal trouble-spots of the world, cannot be indefinitely held back; the time for the expansion of social and economic development as an aspect of the work of the Cause has arrived and it cannot be neglected without grave consequences to the life of Bahá’í communities; the unprecedented opportunity for proclamation of the Faith has been given to us as a direct result of the persecutions inflicted on the believers in the Cradle of the Faith.  If we are to be worthy of the sacrifices of these valiant friends, and if we are not to betray the trust that Bahá’u’lláh has placed upon us for the redemption of mankind in this hour of its acute need, we must not fail to seize the opportunities now before us.

385.9 This fourfold challenge faces us at the very time when the world is in the midst of an economic crisis and is overshadowed with threats of war and other disasters.  These conditions, far from daunting the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, can only drive home to us the urgency for our response.

Call for Renewed Consecration 385.10 We therefore call upon every true-hearted Bahá’í to consecrate his life anew to the service of God and the betterment of the lot of mankind, so that manpower will not be lacking in the fields of pioneering, teaching and administrative service.  Most urgently, may every believer give sacrificially of his substance, each in accordance with his means, to the funds of the Cause, local, national, continental and international, so that the material resources—the lifeblood of all activities—will be adequate to the tremendous work that we have to perform in the months and years immediately ahead.  It requires a concentration of effort, a unity of purpose and a degree of self-sacrifice to match the heroic exertions of the victors of past plans in the progress of the Cause.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

492386 Message to Youth—International Youth Year

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]