THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1997-03-24

dear b ahá’í f riends,

february 1997 in which you raise various questions about the use of music

and dance at b ahá’í centers and we have been asked to respond as follows.

As you may know, in many parts of the world there are certain tribal

and traditional dances which are performed in glorification of god, and it

is perfectly acceptable for a prayer to be interpreted in the form of move-

ment or dance. however, to avoid that such expressions of prayer become

gradually ritualized, or that certain gestures and movements become ha-245.4

246.1

246.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

56bitual accompaniments to prayers, it is preferable that they not accompany

the reciting of words of the prayers. Through the revealed prayers, we seek

communion with god, hence they must be offered with the utmost rever-

ence and dignity. each individual bahá’í should be free to pray as he wishes,

for there is no set form for prayer except for those few which have special

instructions for observance upon their recitation.

in your second question, you ask regarding the performance of drama

and cultural dances in bahá’í centers. provided that the underlying themes

or stories are noble and that they are performed in a way which does not elicit base feelings, there is no objection to choreographed dances and

dramas, which are intended to illustrate bahá’í principles, being held in

a bahá’í center. This same principle would apply to traditional dances or

dance movements associated with the expression of a culture. As long as care is exercised to ensure that the themes of such dances are in harmony

with the high ethical standards of the cause and the qualities of dignity and

grace are upheld, there is no objection to their use.

with regard to what kind of music can be played at events in bahá’í

centers, there is no particular type of music which bahá’ís should or should

not use. in this respect, a bahá’í may well be best guided by the words of

bahá’u’lláh in the most holy book, where he makes it clear that music

can be both “a means whereby [the soul] may be lifted up unto the realm

on high” and “as wings to self and passion,” and warns against allowing

music to “cause you to overstep the bounds of propriety and dignity.” in the

planning of bahá’í events, it is left to those responsible for the program to

determine “the bounds of propriety and dignity” and ensure that the music chosen is befitting the purpose and solemnity of the occasion, in view of what is most suited to the country’s culture and customs.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat246.3

246.4

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

565247

Importance of Upholding the Prohibition

on Alcoholic Beverages

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]