THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1 May 2018

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

It is with pleasure that the Universal House of Justice makes available to you a film that it commissioned for presentation at the Twelfth International Bahá’í Convention. This film, entitled A Widening Embrace, captures experiences and insights from clusters, neighbourhoods, villages, towns, and cities in all parts of the world where peoples are taking charge of their own spiritual, social, and material development through the application of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. The segments of the film illustrate distinct but interrelated dimensions of the work of building vibrant communities—embracing large numbers, youth summoned to the vanguard, and stirrings of social action.

You may wish to show the film early in the proceedings of your forthcoming National Convention, as a means of helping to inform the consultation of the delegates and uplifting their spirits. You are also encouraged to consider, together with the Counsellors, ways in which this film can be made widely available among the friends and utilized as an instrument for reflection. To assist you in this regard, the film will be made available to download or view online at http://www.bahai.org/widening-embrace. In addition, each National Spiritual Assembly is being provided with a flash drive with high-resolution copies of the film with subtitles in Arabic, English, French, Persian, Russian, and Spanish. These files have also been placed on a secure website, in a number of formats to suit different needs. Also available on the flash drive and at this website are the DVD cover artwork, technical instructions, and video and audio files that will allow National Assemblies, where required, to create versions of the film with subtitles or voice-over in relevant languages….

May this film be a source of inspiration and hope to growing numbers around the globe who are joyfully contributing to the collective effort of building the world anew.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]