THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-12-14

This message is to bring you up to date on the situation of the bahá’ís in

iran. All those known to have been arrested in connection with the bahá’í

institute of higher education (bihe) have been released, with the excep-

tion of the following friends in isfahan, who were arrested in early october

and are understood to be still detained:

mr. z iaullah m irzapanah  mr. f arzad khajeh

dr. Sina h akiman   mr. h abibullah f erdosian

The authorities called upon many of those arrested in relation to the bihe

to sign a statement committing themselves to cease serving in this institution

and not to associate with it in the future. All refused to sign, since the opera-

tion of the institute contravenes no law of the country. one of the effects of

these widespread raids and arrests in iran was to bring about a rededication

among many of the friends there to their commitment to provide educational

opportunities for the young bahá’ís who have been so callously denied access

to the higher education facilities in the country of their birth.

The bihe has resumed its activities for the new academic year, although

its functioning is still hampered by the loss of equipment, especially com-puters, which it suffered in the raids, equipment that has not been returned.

The announcement by the friends in iran inviting the bahá’í students to

resume their studies was made throughout the country at a recent Nineteen

day feast. There has been no reaction from the g overnment as yet.289.1

289.2

289.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

65in September 1996 we were informed that the final year of high school

had been designated a pre-university year, and that bahá’í students had

been barred from attending it. This restriction brought with it a number of

disadvantages to those affected, such as limiting their access to many em-ployment opportunities and making it difficult for them to obtain a driving license. we are pleased to be able to report that this discrimination against

bahá’í youth appears to have come to an end very recently, and they are now

able to register for the pre-university year in the high schools. it remains to

be seen whether they will be awarded the certificate for successful comple-tion of the year. The friends in iran feel that international pressure on the

government of  iran is likely to have been instrumental in bringing this

about. . . .

At the same time . . . the harassment and intimidation of the bahá’ís

in that country has in no way abated, and flurries of arrests continue to occur. often those arrested are released after a short time. Typical are the

cases of three friends—mr. derakhshan fanaiyan, mrs. minu zamani

(fanaiyan) and mr. hossain mazlumi-Nosratabad—who were arrested

in the town of damavand on 17 o ctober; information has just been

received that they have been released. . . . they are very much part of

the pattern of harassment. for example, five friends engaged in teaching

bahá’í children’s classes were recently arrested in the tribal area of boyer

Ahmadi-ye in western central iran; further arrests are reported to have

taken place during the last two weeks of November in Tankabon and Sari, in the region north of Tehran, and four friends are believed to have

been detained . . .

you will have received our email of 1 december enclosing the statement

of the lawyer who appealed on behalf of the convicted friends in mash-

had, mr. Sirus zabihi-m oghaddam, mr. h edayat kashefi-Najafabadi and

mr. Ataollah hamid-Nasirizadeh. Nothing further is known of their situ-

ation as yet. it should also be remembered that four other bahá’ís remain

condemned to death in iran, two—mr. musa Talebi and mr. zabihullah

mahrami—for apostasy, and two—mr. kayvan khalajabadi and mr. beh-

nam mithaqi—for bahá’í activities. They were condemned some years ago,

and their ultimate fate is still uncertain. . . .

forts on behalf of these and all the bahá’ís in iran who steadfastly bear

sufferings out of loyalty to the b lessed b eauty.

Department  of tHe secretariat289.4

289.5

289.6

289.7

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

655290

Resignation from the Continental Board of Counselors

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]