‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Europe,
1912–1913

‘The Sun is only just beginning to rise in Europe; soon will the
divine light grow more intense, and then will you all behold what
has come to pass.’
Words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoken in Paris, 15 March 1913

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Europe,
1912–1913
The Talks and Travels of the Master
as Recorded by Mírzá Ma.hmúd Zarqání
translated by
Adib Masumian
with the assistance of
Farnaz Masumian
George Ronald
Oxford

George Ronald, Publisher
Oxford
www.grbooks.com
© This translation Adib Masumian 2024
All Rights Reserved
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
ISBN 978-0-85398-667-6
Cover photograph: Train waiting to leave London, 1913.
Photo by F.H. Stingemore,
used with permission of the Stephenson Rail Archive.
Cover design Steiner Graphics
Printed and bound in Great Britain by
TJ Books Limited, Padstow, Cornwall

Contents
Foreword by the Translator
vii
A Brief Chronology of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Travels Covered in this
Volume
ix
Preface by Mírzá Maḥmúd Zarqání
Voyage to England
England
Scotland
Return to England
France
Germany
Hungary
Austria
Return to Germany
Return to France
Voyage to Egypt
Egypt
The Holy Land
Appendix: Selected Biographical Notes
Bibliography
Notes and References
Index

Map of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s European travels

Foreword by the Translator
This translation of the second volume of Mírzá Maḥmúd Zarqání’s
diary recounts ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s voyage from America to Europe
(December 1912); His travels to the United Kingdom, France, Ger-
many, Hungary, and Austria (December 1912–June 1913); and,
toward the end of the book, glimpses from His sojourn in Egypt
(June 1913–December 1913) and return to the Holy Land (December
1913), where He remained for the rest of His life. This account does
not cover ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s first visits to France and England in 1911,
since Zarqání did not accompany Him on those travels.
This book was originally published in Persian a little more than
a hundred years ago as the second of two volumes of Kitáb-i-
Badáyi‘u’l-Áthár fí Asfár-i-Mawli’l-Akhyár ilá Mamáliki’l-Gharb
bi’l-‘Izzati va’l-Iqtidár (A Book of the Wondrous Traces of the Mas-
ter’s Glorious Travels to the West) – often shortened among
Persian-speaking Bahá’ís to Badáyi‘u’l-Áthár or Safar-Námih (‘travel-
ogue’). The first volume was translated into English in 1998 and
published by George Ronald under the title of Maḥmúd’s Diary.
Though the present volume had not been rendered fully and
directly into English until now, a considerable amount of its con-
tents had previously been summarized by H. M. Balyuzi in his
exquisite biography of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,1 several of the anecdotes He
relates in it were adapted by Amir Badiei for inclusion in Stories Told
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,2 and certain snippets of His other remarks recorded
in it were translated by Marzieh Gail in ‘A Sampler from Maḥmúd’s
Diary’.3
In a letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
the United States dated 30 April 1984, the Universal House of
Justice stated that it
. . . attaches great importance to this work which . . . is regarded
as a reliable account of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels in the West and an
authentic record of His utterances, whether in the form of formal

talks, table talks, or random oral statements. ​Mírzá Maḥmúd was
a careful and faithful chronicler and engaged in assembling and
publishing his work with the permission of the beloved Master, as
he states in the Introduction. Indeed, Shoghi Effendi drew upon
it for details about the Master’s visit to the West in writing God
Passes By . . .
It should, however, be noted that the words Zarqání has attributed
to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in this chronicle do not have the status of Sacred
Text, and the accounts included herein should be corroborated by
His Writings where possible.
For those who wish to learn more about the people and events
covered in this volume, I have prepared a freely accessible digital
resource, A Supplement to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Europe, 1912–1913,4
which includes fuller English translations5 of those talks by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá that Zarqání has mentioned in passing or quoted partially;
my renderings6 of nearly thirty selections from the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in which He discusses His journey to the West, sev-
eral of which He composed while still there; and my translation of
a biography of Zarqání authored by ‘Azízu’lláh Sulaymání.
Given Zarqání’s relative unfamiliarity with the Gregorian cal-
endar, it is understandable that he made the occasional mistake in
dating his entries. In these instances, I have retained the erroneous
dates in the body of the chronicle but mentioned the correct ones
in accompanying endnotes with reference to other sources from
that time. For the most part, I have restricted the multitude of
reverent titles Zarqání used for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the original account
to ‘the Master’ and ‘the Centre of the Covenant’. The translations
used for the Biblical verses quoted in this chronicle are all taken
from the King James Bible. For Quranic passages, I have used
Shoghi Effendi’s translations or renderings authorized by the Uni-
versal House of Justice where available; in every other case, I have
relied on Rodwell’s translation. All parenthetical text in the body of
the account is Zarqání’s, while all bracketed commentary is mine.
All footnotes and endnotes are likewise my own. Zarqání withheld
the names of certain Persian dignitaries who met with
‘abdu’l-bahá in europe, 1912–1913
viii

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and this was done at His own instruction.7 I have
denoted these omissions with two em-dashes wrapped in brackets,
thus: [——].
The original volume concludes with a sixteen-page collection
of poetry by Zarqání in which he illustrates the coming of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá from the East to the West after forty years of imprisonment,
emphasizing the significance of that momentous journey; extols
the greatness of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, lauding the talks He gave in the West
and more generally the message of peace He delivered there;
exhorts his fellow believers to follow ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s example of
serving and teaching the Cause with self-sacrifice; glorifies the
return of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá from the West to the East, and more spe-
cifically from Egypt to the Holy Land, highlighting the importance
of this event; depicts the fulfilment of scriptural prophecies,
including those pertaining to Mount Carmel, through the advent
of the Bahá’í Faith and the construction of the Shrine of the Báb
which is situated on that mountain; rebukes the Bábís who failed
to recognize Bahá’u’lláh as the Promised One; and expresses his
own love for Bahá’u’lláh, as well as his devoted servitude to Him.
Those poems have not been included in this translation, and Zar-
qání’s one reference to them in this book – found at the end of his
entry for 21 June 1913 – has consequently been left out.
In rendering a translation of this size and substance, I benefited
immensely from the assistance of various people. The lion’s share
of my gratitude goes to my mother, Farnaz Masumian, who sat
with me and spent more hours than I can count checking every
word of my translation against the original text as I produced it
over a period of three years (July 2017–July 2020). I am also
grateful to the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice, who reviewed all my provisional translations of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s words and approved them for publication in this book
following the incorporation of some recommended revisions.8
Additional thanks are due to the team at George Ronald, including
May Hofman, who edited the manuscript with patience and
meticulous precision; and Erica Leith, who typeset the book, added
the images, and undertook other production work. My father,
foreword by the translator
ix

Bijan Masumian, pored over the entire manuscript to identify
names, places, and other suitable candidates for the aforemen-
tioned images that enrich this translation. With the help of my
cherished and erudite mentor, Naeem Nabiliakbar, I gained insight
into some of the older meanings of terms and phrases intended by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Mírzá Maḥmúd Zarqání, and others featured in this
account – and through his skillful and tireless tutelage over many
years, he developed my command of Persian to a point that
enabled me to take on this project in the first place. The ‘brother I
never had’, Joshua D.T. Hall, offered several suggestions for
improvement after reviewing an early draft of the full translation,
and also provided, for my use in this work, his own superb render-
ings of certain lines of Persian poetry that have been quoted in this
chronicle. Through the assistance of Edward Sevcik at the U.S.
Bahá’í National Archives, I procured facsimiles of contempora-
neous diary letters by Ahmad Sohrab which cover many of the
same events recorded by Zarqání and thus served as a useful coun-
terweight to his account. Jan Jasion and Amín Egea supplied me
with a wealth of historical material relevant to the contents of this
volume. Robert Stockman shed light on several allusions Zarqání
made to the American Bahá’í community and to events that were
concurrently unfolding in that country. Still more friends, diligent
historians of the national Bahá’í communities to which they
belong, reviewed chapters of the manuscript that aligned with their
areas of expertise: David Merrick (United Kingdom), Ulrich
Gollmer and Alexander Meinhard (Germany), Ágnes Ambró
(Hungary), and David Menham (Austria). The recent release of
The Bahá’í Community of the British Isles, 1844–1963 – a new book
printed by George Ronald and prepared by the late Adam Thorne,
Moojan Momen, Janet Fleming Rose, and Earl Redman – proved
serendipitous, in that George Ronald generously supplied me with
a pre-publication copy just before they began editing this book.
The fresh light shed by that definitive history of the Bahá’í Faith in
Britain – especially in chapter 3, which covers ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s time
there – enabled me to make several corrections and clarifications to
my notes to the corresponding period in this volume, and I cannot
‘abdu’l-bahá in europe, 1912–1913
x

recommend it enough to any student of the Cause’s development
in that part of the world. Jan Jasion’s impressively comprehensive
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in France: 1911 & 1913 was of similarly great help as
I worked through the portions of this account dealing with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s time in that country.
I have tried my best to produce an accurate and adequately
researched translation that avoids wording anachronistic to Zar-
qání’s time, reflects his elevated tone, and maintains fidelity to his
attitude of respectful admiration. I can only hope that I have done
right by him and by that Mystery of God Whose talks and travels
he has so lovingly striven to immortalize.
Adib Masumian
November 2023
foreword by the translator
xi

A Brief Chronology of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Travels
Covered in this Volume
5 December
‘Abdu’l-Bahá concludes His journey
throughout America and sets sail for
England
13 December
Arrives in England
6 January
Departs England for Scotland
10 January
Returns from Scotland to England
21 January
Departs England for France
1 April
Departs France for Germany
8 April
Departs Germany for Hungary
18 April
Departs Hungary for Austria
24 April
Returns from Austria to Germany
1 May
Returns from Germany to France
13 June
Sets sail from France to Egypt
2 December
Sets sail from Egypt to the Holy Land
5 December
Arrives in the Holy Land

Preface by Mírzá Ma.hmúd Zarqání
In the Name of God, the Most Powerful
Praise be to the All-Bountiful Creator, Who has adorned the firma-
ment of existence with the rays of the sun of benevolence, and
illumined the dawn of creation with the stars of insight and under-
standing. He has taught the divine anthem to the pure souls; He
has kindled the fearless hearts with the fire of the love of God.
With His heavenly message, He has instilled a fresh spirit and
breathed new life into the world. With His divine glory, He has
endowed the human race with limitless endurance. He has sum-
moned all His servants to the tabernacle of unity, and has made the
exalted pavilion of peace the resting-place of the hearts and souls
of humankind. He has illumined the West with the sun of the East.
He has perfumed the nostrils of the truly liberated with the fra-
grance wafting from the firmament of the Covenant – a fragrance
so enchanting that it stirs even the rose-gardens to jealousy. He has
influenced the leaders of the West with His counsel, and has –
through His aid and assistance – given the wise ones of the East a
religion which has granted them salvation, that they may become
the envy of the world and the cause of its perpetual prosperity, for
this has always been, and will always be, the method of God.
The Sovereign of the Kingdom of glory has demonstrated His
extraordinary power, and perfected His divine proof, by choosing
the holy Manifestations from among the most backward of people.
Through His spiritual power, He has enabled such people to sur-
pass even the most glorious of nations. Unaided by earthly hosts,
and void of acquired knowledge, they have conquered the religions
and great nations of the world. He has made those Manifestations
the greatest means of the unification of all peoples and races. With
the advent of the prophet Abraham, for instance, God bestowed
blessings and eternal glory upon his descendants. With the coming
of Moses, He freed the Israelites from captivity, and made them
even as the kings of the earth. With the breath of Jesus Christ, He

unified the diverse nations of Assyria, Chaldea, Egypt, and Syria,
and breathed eternal life into them. With the rising of the Muham-
madan countenance, He made the peoples and pagan tribes of the
Arabian desert the inheritors and caliphs of the earth. And now we
arrive at this brilliant age and heavenly century, in which the Sun
of Bounty [Bahá’u’lláh] shed its splendour from the horizon of
Persia. With His advent, He made the East the dawning-place of
God’s ancient grace and glorious triumph. With the light of divine
civilization, He has illumined scores of the people of advanced
societies, and has made the renowned philosophers of the West to
fall for the Beloved of the East. It behooves the learned ones of the
East, then – especially those of Persian extraction – to lift up their
voices to the highest heaven in gratitude of this honour and privi-
lege, and cry out, ‘Glad tidings! Glad tidings!’ It befits them to sing
the song that hails the loving Lord as they pluck the harp and strike
the drum. They should so excel in this arena of grace that the signs
of their supremacy will forever endure in both this world and the
next, and so hoist the standard of felicity in this soul-stirring space
that the banner of its glory shall wave throughout the ages and
centuries to come. They must so move in the world of existence as
to become the clear tokens of this most great dispensation and this
supreme era. Even as a brilliant star must they rise over the horizon
of these blessed words: ‘Erelong will God bring forth treasures of
the earth – men who shall aid Him with a power born of Him,’9
and come to completely exemplify this irrevocable promise: ‘There
lay concealed within the Holy Veil, and prepared for the service of
God, a company of His chosen ones who shall be manifested unto
men, who shall aid His Cause, who shall be afraid of no one,
though the entire human race rise up and war against them.’10
Were the peoples of the world to consider, with fairness and
insight, the sacred teachings of this most great Cause, as well as the
momentousness of this journey to the West – and also to ponder
the grandeur, the glory, the majesty, and the transcendence that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (may the souls of all existence be a sacrifice for His
bounty) evinced as He travelled throughout the cities of America
and Europe – they would account all these as the most conclusive
‘abdu’l-bahá in europe, 1912–1913

proof, the most perfect evidence attesting to the truth of the Rev-
elation of the Blessed Beauty (magnified be His glory), and regard
them as the supreme sign of the Sun of Truth shining resplendent
from the Most Exalted Horizon and the Most Glorious Kingdom.
Thereby would they be apprised of the secrets and truths of the
divine religions, and moved to turn their faces from the darkness
of prejudice and blind imitation to the luminous realm of oneness
and unity. Indeed, every people would cleave tenaciously to this
most great Cause as a source of life and a path to salvation, and all
humanity would deem it their obligation to promote these blessed
precepts. This applies in particular to the people of the East, whom
the peerless Lord has once again deigned to honour with a crown
so exquisite, a diadem so refulgent, that it shall arouse the envy of
all humankind, and exalt that people to a most illustrious station
in both this world and the world to come. I beseech God, blessed
and glorified be He, to prepare them for this supreme bestowal and
to make them grateful for this most magnificent gift. I pray, more-
over, that He may aid them to preserve this imperishable glory and
enable them to promulgate His sacred commandments, through
which every weak one is strengthened, every lowly one is exalted,
every poor one is enriched, every sick one is healed, and every soul
is empowered to soar to the loftiest summits of redemption and
reach the celestial heights of tranquillity. He, verily, is the Most
Compassionate, the Lord of grace abounding.
Praised be God, Who out of His all-encompassing grace and
all-pervading bounty has aided this poor servant to record the sig-
nificant events of the Master’s journey throughout the states of
America, and helped him to complete and present the first volume
of this chronicle.11 Upon completing this introduction, I shall
finish writing this vivid account of the Master’s travels to the cities
of Europe, and thus bring the second volume of this chronicle to
completion. Having set my face towards the horizon of God’s assis-
tance and favour, I hopingly supplicate the paradise of His support
and protection to make me vigilantly heedful of such things as
beseem the majestic greatness of His Cause and the powerful might
of His Covenant, and to protect me from errors and omissions. He
preface by mírzá ma.hmúd zarqání

is, in truth, the Protector, the Helper, the Giver of victory, and He
is the Sustainer, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
The most important detail which the reader will glean from
perusing these pages is surely the majesty and might which ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (may my spirit be a sacrifice for the dust which the footsteps of
His loved ones have trodden) demonstrated in the sundry churches
and gatherings where He spoke; the transformation experienced by
the celebrated philosophers who met Him, as well as the deference
they showed Him; and the humble reverence extended to Him by
religious leaders and the heads of various other groups, for in addi-
tion to captivating the hearts of the friends at Bahá’í gatherings, the
profound impression which His blessed utterances made at other
assemblies invariably revolutionized the hearts of eminent persons,
and roused His distinguished listeners to genuine veneration and
vigilant attention. Even our esteemed compatriots, who were
residing in London and Paris when we journeyed to those cities,
were, for the most part, witnesses to these things themselves, and
have testified to the power and grandeur of the Master. Many were
the matters of major importance that came to pass, the like of which
I have previously discussed in my preface to the first volume of this
chronicle, and countless the fruits of the power displayed, the resolve
evinced, and the talks given by the Master in America and Europe.
What is surprising is that the most inveterate enemies of this
Cause in Persia have not been able to deny this power and might.
In Tehran, the Azalís – who today are meddling, both secretly and
openly, in the political spheres of Persia with a view to disordering
its affairs – have repeatedly said:
‘Abbás Effendí has gifted precious objects and given large sums to
the ministers of churches and the heads of societies. It is for this
reason that the respected people of the West have, in their houses
of worship and other gathering-places, lavished such lofty praise
upon Him and held Him in such high esteem.
Here is an evidence of true power – that even the tongues of our
Eastern enemies should bear ample testimony to the praise and
‘abdu’l-bahá in europe, 1912–1913

respect which the Master received in the West, as well as the defer-
ence and reverence which the esteemed people of that land
accorded Him at numerous gatherings. Ignorant as our opponents
are of the pervasively prevailing might of the Word of God –
which, though ever bereft of earthly means, has always reared
humankind aright, and subdued its hearts and souls – they, in their
idle fancy, have ultimately imagined the influence of the Cause of
God and the power of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to have stemmed from material
possessions. It is true that the Master’s displays of generosity con-
stituted just one of His distinctive behaviours that would invariably
cause people to rejoice, but He gave this money to care for the
weak and help the poor. It is also the case that, on certain occasions
when He was the guest of a respected person – or when He Himself
had a guest who was dear to Him (as it is the custom among the
people of every nation to conclude their visits with friends for
whom they feel respect by giving them a souvenir of some sort) –
the Master would likewise extend His beneficence to people as He
bade them farewell, but He Himself never accepted a single gift
from anyone. To them that judge fairly, the Master’s demonstra-
tions of this munificence – as well as the self-sufficiency and
independence He exhibited – all undoubtedly serve as testaments
to the loftiness of His grandeur and the highness of His rank.
Such is the notion that these people, in accordance with their
vain imaginings and selfish motives, have conceived – that with the
ephemeral vanities of this world, one can transform the hearts of
humanity and unite their inner realities beneath the shade of a single
Word. Yet if that were truly possible, then it should be the Christian
missionaries – with their wealth and capability, their schools and
seminaries, their political power and influence – who achieve the
outcome they so dearly cherish in summoning the peoples of the
East to embrace their cause. Why should the Bahá’ís – the objects of
hatred and wrath, the outcasts and prisoners of the nations – have
received so much attention in the highly developed countries of the
West and so completely captivated the hearts of their inhabitants?
During my sojourn in India, I met a great many people in the
various provinces of that country (which is today one of the realms
preface by mírzá ma.hmúd zarqání

of the mighty British Empire) who had all been born into villages
and farms in the utmost poverty and hardship, and taken by Chris-
tian missionaries to their schools on the condition that they
convert to Christianity. The missionaries clothed them, fed them,
and taught them, and every day they would read the sacred texts
and learn religious subjects. In those schools and quarters, every
one of the servants and other attendants had to first accept Chris-
tianity before they were employed there. They were expected to
attend church regularly, at fixed times, where they would be taught
spiritual topics. Yet despite all this, once they left the schools and
quarters of the Christians after studying there for a few years, they,
like their fellow Indians, returned to supporting their own people,
reverted to the religion of their forefathers, and grew more
entrenched in their prejudices of race and nationality, thus ren-
dering all the efforts and outlays of the Christian missionaries and
teachers entirely fruitless in the domain of religion; indeed, their
endeavours had consequences in the political sphere that were the
very opposite of what they had hoped to achieve.
Tremendously powerful confirmations, then, are needed to
effectively spread divine guidance, not the expenditure of the tran-
sitory wealth of this world, for if the confirmations of God
consisted in the riches of men, the Christians would have been able
to protect the basis of divine religion from the pervasive onslaught
of Western materialists, such that pure spirituality and divine civi-
lization – the indispensable foundation of human welfare and
prosperity – could have withstood the influence of material civili-
zation. Not only this, but through divine confirmations, those
spiritual forces could have even prevailed over the libertine civiliza-
tion of the materialists, which can culminate only in sheer
animality, and exalted the souls and inner realities of humankind
to stations holy and eternal.
It is this aid and assistance from on high that has, in this day,
sustained the Cause of the Blessed Beauty [Bahá’u’lláh] and sup-
ported the Centre of His Covenant [‘Abdu’l-Bahá], Who in spite of
His dire afflictions, the plundering of His possessions, His dis-
placement in various climes and countries, and His incarceration
‘abdu’l-bahá in europe, 1912–1913

in the Most Great Prison, has been able, in so short a span, to
spread the Word of God in sundry regions of the world and pen-
etrate the hearts of humanity with the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. The
ray of the Sun of Truth, beaming down from the horizon of the
East, has been so cast upon the farthest corners of the West that, as
soon as the Master had been freed from prison as a result of the
Young Turk Revolution, special invitations were sent to Him not
only from the Bahá’ís of America, but even from the leaders of
churches and other significant assemblies in that land, imploring
Him repeatedly to travel to their countries and speak to the new
and wondrous teachings – all this notwithstanding that they had
yet to meet Him in person, or receive any gifts or other transient
treasures from Him. Had those who raised their cavils against the
Master been aware of the invitations He had received before
embarking on His journey, they would have attributed the praise
and respect He was given only to the power of God, and were they
to reflect, however briefly, on what could possibly be the source of
such wealth as this – which has so remarkably noised abroad the
Cause of God and glorified His Word in those prosperous lands –
they would realize at once that this wealth has come from the
treasuries of the Most Glorious Kingdom, and that this aid and
assistance are rendered by hosts from the Concourse on High.
This glory, this wealth, this aid vouchsafed from the realm
above are all the fruits of the calamities which the loved ones of
Bahá’u’lláh have sustained in the path of God, and the results of
their renouncing their lives, their riches, their prestige, and their
repose, consenting instead to bear toil and trouble, abasement and
vagrancy, as they follow in the footsteps of that One Beloved – ever
afflicted, ever captive, ever faced with the threat of the blade.
preface by mírzá ma.hmúd zarqání