THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2013-04-19

289

51

19 April 2013

To three believers

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

51.1 . . . You state that the disparity between the sexual mores

of contemporary Western society and the standards of the

Bahá’í teachings, which, you indicate, are “in accordance with

the moral code of the East,” poses a considerable challenge to

the current generation of young believers. In this connection

you explain that, since, historically, a great deal of shame was associated with sexuality in European society, and so much

energy was directed towards hiding  and suppressing it, to

abstain from sexual relations before marriage is now negatively viewed as pietism. You add that today marriage is delayed into

the thirties after young people have completed their education

and saved money for a home, that married life is more complex

than in the past since both spouses usually work, and that those

who profess ideals of chastity, as in the priesthood, often fall prey to illicit behavior. Further, you suggest that many young

Bahá’ís struggle to meet the standard of purity set forth in the

teachings and that other young people may be reticent to join the Faith out of a reluctance to uphold it. The House of Justice

appreciates the sincerity with which you have expressed your

thoughts and acknowledges the very real sense of concern you

feel, as the gulf between the principles laid down by Bahá’u’lláh

and the generally accepted practices of society continues to widen.

51.2 Young Bahá’ís in Europe face a particular challenge in this

respect. Buttressed by its material and intellectual achievements

and emboldened by a narrative of accomplishment and supe-

riority that pervades its culture, the West puts itself forward in

various ways as a model and measure for others. Yet, reflect

upon ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s trenchant analysis of the limitations of European civilization in His treatise The Secret of Divine

290

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONCivilization. Weigh carefully, next, His many exhortations to

the individual in that same volume to “become a source of

social  good” and to “lay hold of all those instrumentalities

that promote the peace and well-being and  happiness, the

knowledge, culture and industry, the dignity, value and station,

of the  entire human race.” Far from allowing themselves to be acculturated to the standards of society, then, Bahá’ís are

called upon to be the vanguard and champions of a new civi-

lization. The important issues you raise, therefore, need to be considered not only in the context of the current condition of

society but also in light of the nature of Bahá’u’lláh’s laws and

teachings and the responsibilities shouldered by every one of

His followers, as well as by the community and the institutions

of the Faith—this, if the potential to achieve His purpose for humanity is to be realized.

51.3 We live in an age when the role of religion in shaping hu-

man thought and in guiding individual and collective conduct

is increasingly discounted. In societies that have bowed to the

dictates of materialism, organized religion is seeing the sphere

of its influence contract, becoming confined mostly to the realm

of personal experience. Not infrequently the laws of religion are regarded as arbitrary rules blindly obeyed by those incapable

of independent thought or as a prudish and outdated code

of conduct hypocritically imposed upon others by  advocates who, themselves, fail to live up to its demands. Morality is

being redefined in such societies, and materialistic assumptions,

values, and practices pertaining to the nature of  humankind

and its economic and social life are taking on the status of

unassailable truth.

51.4 Indeed, the expenditure of enormous energy and vast

amounts of resources in an attempt to bend truth to conform

to personal desire is now a feature of many contemporary

societies. The result is a culture that distorts human nature

and purpose, trapping human beings in pursuit of idle fancies

and vain imaginings and turning them into pliable objects in the hands of the powerful. Yet, the happiness and well-being

of humanity depend upon the opposite: cultivating human

character and social order in conformity with reality. Divine teachings shed light on reality, enabling every soul to investigate

it properly and to acquire, through the exercise of personal

discipline, those attributes that are to distinguish the human

being. “Man should know  his own self,” Bahá’u’lláh states,

291

glory or abasement, wealth or poverty.”

51.5 “The object of every Revelation,” Bahá’u’lláh declares, is

“to effect a transformation in the whole character of mankind,

a transformation that shall manifest itself, both outwardly and

inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external condi-tions.” His appearance signals the emergence of “a race of men

the nature of which is inscrutable to all save God,” a race that

will be purified “from the defilement of idle fancies and corrupt desires” and that will manifest “the signs of His sovereignty and

might upon earth.” The teachings of Bahá’u’lláh provide “such

means as lead to the elevation, the advancement, the education,

the protection and the regeneration of the peoples of the earth.”

Thus, enshrined in His Revelation is a pattern for future society, radically different from any established in the past, and the pro-

motion of His laws and exhortations constitutes an inseparable

part of the effort to lay the foundations of such a society.

51.6 It is evident that, if the body and mind are to maintain

good health, the laws that govern physical existence cannot be

ignored. So, too, for any nation to function properly, there are

certain social conventions and laws that, everyone accepts, must

be followed. In the  same way,  there are laws and principles

that govern our spiritual lives, and attention to them  is  of vital importance if the individual and society as a whole are to

develop in a sound and harmonious manner. In recognizing the

Manifestation of God for today, a believer also acknowledges that His laws and exhortations express truths about the nature

of the human being and the purpose of existence; they raise

human consciousness, increase understanding, lift the standard

of personal conduct, and provide the means for society to

progress. His teachings serve, then, to empower humanity; they are the harbinger of human happiness, whose  call, far

from compelling obedience to an arbitrary and dictatorial

regimen of behavior, leads to true freedom. “Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the

Heaven of Revelation,” Bahá’u’lláh states, “they would, of a

certainty, attain unto perfect liberty. Happy is the man that hath

apprehended the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed

from the Heaven of His Will, that pervadeth all created things.” “Think not that We  have revealed unto you a mere code of

laws,” He declares further, “Nay, rather, We have unsealed the

choice Wine with the fingers of might and power.”

292

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTION51.7 Throughout the world, in diverse cultures, Bahá’ís encoun-

ter values and practices that stand in sharp contrast to the

teachings of the Faith. Some are embedded in social structures,

for instance, racial prejudice and gender discrimination,

economic exploitation and political corruption. Others pertain

to personal conduct, especially with respect to the use of alcohol and drugs, to sexual behavior, and to self-indulgence in general. If Bahá’ís simply surrender to the mores of society,

how will conditions change? How will the people of the world

distinguish today’s moribund order from the civilization to

which Bahá’u’lláh is summoning humanity? “Humanity,” the

Rid.ván 2012 message of the House of Justice explained, “is

weary for want of  a pattern of life to which to aspire.” “A

single soul can uphold a standard far above the low threshold

by which the world measures itself,” the message noted. Young Bahá’ís especially need to take care, lest they imagine they can

live according to the norms of contemporary society while

adhering to Bahá’í ideals at some minimum level to assuage

their conscience or to satisfy the community, for they will soon

find themselves consumed in a struggle to obey even the most basic of the Faith’s moral teachings and powerless to take up

the challenges of their generation. “Wings that are besmirched

with mire can never soar,” Bahá’u’lláh warns. The inner joy that every individual seeks, unlike a passing emotion, is not contin-

gent on outside influences; it is a condition, born of certitude

and conscious knowledge, fostered by a pure heart, which is

able to distinguish between that which has permanence and that

which is superficial. “Wert thou to speed through the immensity of space and traverse the expanse of heaven,” are Bahá’u’lláh’s

words, “yet thou wouldst find no rest save in submission to Our

command and humbleness before Our Face.”

51.8 The duty to obey the laws brought by Bahá’u’lláh for a new

age, then, rests primarily on the individual believer. It lies at the

heart of the relationship of the lover and the Beloved; “Observe

My commandments, for the love of My beauty,” is Bahá’u’lláh’s

exhortation. Yet what is expected in this connection is effort

sustained by earnest desire, not instantaneous perfection. The qualities and habits of thought and action that characterize

Bahá’í life are developed through daily exertion. “Bring thyself

to account each day,” writes Bahá’u’lláh. “Let each morn be better than its eve,” He advises, “and each morrow richer than

its yesterday.” The friends should not lose heart in their person-

293

the argument that, since mistakes will inevitably be made and

perfection is impossible, it is futile to exert an effort. They are

to steer clear of the pitfalls of hypocrisy, on the one hand—that

is, saying one thing yet doing another—and heedlessness, on the

other—that is, disregard for the laws, ignoring or explaining away the need to follow them. So too is paralysis engendered

by guilt to be avoided; indeed, preoccupation with a particular

moral failing can, at times, make it more challenging for it to be overcome.

51.9 What the friends need to remember in this respect is that, in

their efforts to achieve personal growth and to uphold Bahá’í

ideals, they are not isolated individuals, withstanding alone

the onslaught of the forces of moral decay operating in society.

They are members of a purposeful community, global in scope,

pursuing a bold spiritual mission—working to establish a pat-tern of activity and administrative structures suited to a human-

ity entering its age of maturity. Giving shape to the community’s

efforts is a framework for action defined by the global Plans of the Faith. This framework promotes the transformation of the

individual in conjunction with social transformation, as two in-

separable processes. Specifically, the courses of the institute are

intended to set the individual on a path in which qualities and

attitudes, skills and abilities, are gradually acquired through service—service intended to quell the insistent self, helping to

lift the individual out of its confines and placing him or her in a

dynamic process of community building.

51.10 In this context, then, every individual finds himself or

herself immersed in a community that serves increasingly as an

environment conducive to the cultivation of those attributes

that are to distinguish a Bahá’í life—an environment in which

a spirit of unity animates one and all; in which the ties of

fellowship bind them; in which mistakes are treated with tolerance and fear of failure is diminished; in which criticism

of others is avoided and backbiting and gossip give way to

mutual support and encouragement; in which young and old work shoulder to shoulder, studying the Creative Word together

and accompanying one another in their efforts to serve; in

which children are reared through an educational process that

strives to sharpen their spiritual faculties and imbue them with

the spirit of the Faith; in which young people are helped to de-tect the false messages spread by society, recognize its fruitless

294

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONpreoccupations, and resist its pressures, directing their energies

instead towards its betterment. The institutions of the Faith, for

their part, strive to ensure that such an environment is fostered.

They do not pry into the personal lives of individuals. Nor are

they vindictive and judgmental, eager to punish those who fall

short of the Bahá’í standard. Except in extreme cases of blatant and flagrant disregard for the law that could potentially harm

the Cause and may require them to administer sanctions, their

attention is focused on encouragement, assistance, counsel, and education.

51.11 Such an environment creates a very different set of dynam-

ics than the one found particularly in the highly individualistic

societies of today. Marriage, for instance, need not be  long

delayed, as it is in some parts of the world where the maturity

and responsibilities of adulthood are deferred in pursuit of the

license that a socially prolonged adolescence grants. For the in-dividual, who both contributes to and draws strength from the

environment that is the Bahá’í community, adhering to Bahá’í

law is endowed with meaning and, though perhaps still difficult on occasion, does not pose the insurmountable challenge that

you fear it will. . . .

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]