THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-08-04

tional Spiritual Assemblies that the iranian ambassadors in their respective

countries have now acknowledged that mr. rú¥u’lláh raw¥ání, whose

execution the iranian authorities originally denied, was indeed hanged in

mashhad on 21 j uly 1998, as reported in our letter of 22 july to National

Assemblies. The justification given for mr. raw¥ání’s brutal killing is that

he was convicted of “criminal acts against national security.”

As you are aware, the charge against mr. raw¥ání and his long incarcera-

tion bore no relation to any question of national security; they arose out 279.5

279.6

279.7

280.1

280.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

68of the accusation that he had converted a young muslim woman to the

bahá’í faith. This young woman has made it clear that she is not a religious

convert, but was raised as a bahá’í by her mother, who is herself a member

of the faith. it is reasonable to conclude that the sudden introduction of

an entirely fictitious charge related to national security represents a belated

attempt by iranian authorities to fend off criticism from other governments,

the media and human rights agencies, and to provide a plausible excuse for denying access to relevant information and documentation.

included in the statements from the iranian embassies is a report that

mr. raw¥ání had been arrested “for the same reasons” (i.e. violations of

national security) twice before. . . . the facts of mr. raw¥ání’s earlier two

arrests leave no doubt as to how completely baseless are the charges now

brought against his memory:

1) mr. raw¥ání was first arrested in 1984 as a former member of

the local Spiritual Assembly of cháhishk, a village near mashhad.

Although all bahá’í administrative bodies had been dissolved

in response to an order from iran’s Attorney general in 1983,

some forty friends, including mr. raw¥ání, were arrested on the

retroactive charge of having previously been members of Assemblies and bahá’í committees in the mashhad region. mr. raw¥ání

served more than a year in prison, over two years’ internal exile in

Najafábád, near i¦fahán, and was compelled to pay a fine of over

one million rials before being permitted to return to his home.

2) mr. raw¥ání’s second arrest occurred approximately four years

ago. with the dissolution of their administrative institutions, the

believers found themselves having to make informal arrangements

for the conduct of such purely religious activities as Nineteen day feasts, children’s classes, prayer meetings and the like. it was

mr. raw¥ání’s involvement in one such planning meeting that occasioned his second arrest. he, like all the others taken into cus-

tody on that occasion, was released after twenty-four hours.

until recently, the iranian authorities have done relatively little to con-

ceal the fact that bahá’ís are arrested, tried, sentenced and punished solely

on the grounds of their religious beliefs and activities. The text of the judg-ment of the appeals court in the cases of mr. j amáli’d-dín þájípúr and

mr. m an¦úr mihrábí, forwarded to you with our letter of 21 may 1998,

makes it clear that the official position of the government of iran and its 280.3

280.3a

280.3b

280.4

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

69courts is that the bahá’í religion is itself “an illegal organization” and that a

person’s membership in it makes him or her, by definition, liable to criminal

charges. The proceedings against messrs. raw¥ání, þájípúr and mihrábí

make a mockery of the iranian government’s assurances that, even though

the bahá’í faith is not one of the religions recognized in the constitution of

that country, iranian bahá’ís nevertheless retain the right to the observance

of their religious beliefs. Activities such as “holding bahá’í feasts and meet-

ings on ‘b ahá’í life’” are brazenly adduced as evidence of criminal behavior,

including “espionage” for foreign governments.

it may be noted in passing that these shameless proceedings in iranian

courts against bahá’í citizens of the country violate fundamental provisions

of iran’s constitution, which guarantees written charges, the selection

of legal representation, public trial, and verdicts which are reasoned and documented “with reference to the articles and principles of the law in ac-

cordance with which they are delivered.” . . .

in view of the efforts of iranian diplomatic spokesmen to suggest some

significance in the fact that a bahá’í like mr. raw¥ání has been arrested

several times . . . most of the people arrested with mr. raw¥ání on earlier

occasions have likewise been arrested for a second or third time. The reason

is related to the point made in our letter of 21 may 1998 that the province

of khurásán (whose capital is mashhad) appears to have been selected as

one of those regions in which a policy of particularly severe intimidation is being pursued. random arrests and imprisonment of believers who are

seen as active in encouraging the religious life of the friends are apparently

aimed at generating fear in the community as a whole. Alas, it now seems

not unlikely that, as this intimidation had failed to produce any significant effect, the hanging of mr. raw¥ání was decided upon as a demonstration of

the seriousness of the authorities’ determination to pursue the goals exposed

in the secret document drawn up in 1991 by the Supreme revolutionary

council.

The current campaign of disinformation being carried on by iranian

embassies increases our concern about the safety of mr. ‘A¬á’u’lláh þamíd

Na¦írízádih, mr. Sírús dhabí¥í-m uqaddam and mr. hidáyat-káshifí Na-

jafábádí, who were likewise sentenced to death in mashhad and are now

awaiting their fate after a farcical “retrial.”

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat280.5

280.6

280.7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

60281

Bahá’í Sacred Literature in Simplified English

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]