Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Fifteen

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Cover design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
171 B.E. 2014 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-22-0
Copyright © 2014, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

What he wants the Bahá’ís to do is to study more, not to
study less. The more general knowledge, scientific and
otherwise, they possess the better. Likewise he is
constantly urging them to really study the Bahá’í teachings
more deeply.
— From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi by his secretary
It is hoped that all the Bahá’í students will follow the
noble example you have set before them and will,
henceforth, be led to investigate and analyze the principles
of the Faith and to correlate them with the modern aspects
of
philosophy
and
science.
Every
intelligent
and
thoughtful young Bahá’í should always approach the Cause
in this way, for therein lies the very essence of the
principle of independent investigation of truth.
— From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to a believer who
had completed advanced studies in a subject related to the Bahá’í
Teachings
We need very much the sound, sane, element of thinking
which a scientifically trained mind has to offer. When such
intellectual powers are linked to deep faith, a tremendous
teaching potential is created.
— From a letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to a scientist who had
embraced the Bahá’í Faith

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................ 3
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions ....................... 9
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend: Reflection on Bahá’í
Scholarship as a Journey in the Valley of Search ............................ 41
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings ................... 93
Part II: Deeper into the Writings ............................................... 139
Ian Kluge
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious History
and the Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place ...... 199
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Origins of Creation ....................................................................... 229
Farjam Majd
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society ................... 291
Moojan Momen
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call: (mast-and bulbulán) .......... 311
Julio Savi
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics ... 355
Foad Seddigh
Elucidations
Non-Involvement in Politics, by Universal House of Justice ........ 403
In Memoriam
Hushmand Fatheazam (1924-2013) ............................................. 407
Amin Banani (1926-2013) .......................................................... 418
Mahboubeh Arjmand (d. 2013) .................................................. 423
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations ...... 425
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-14 .................................... 426
Publications and Distributors of the ‘Irfán Colloquia ................. 438
Vision and Objectives .............................................................. 440

Preface
Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf,
differentiates
between
Bahá’í
scholarship
and
worldly
scholarship. He emphatically recommends deeper and systematic
study of the verities of the Bahá’í Faith, both for the purpose of
teaching the Faith as well as for laying “a permanent
foundation” in the hearts and minds of the believers that “tests
and trials will not shake down.”1 Organizing and conducting
`Irfán Colloquium sessions, in Europe and in North America, in
English, Persian and German over the past twenty years, and
publishing thirty volumes of compilations of the papers
presented at those gatherings, as well as study guides and
occasional research papers, were all aimed at promoting and
facilitating the implementation of this strong recommendation
of our beloved Guardian. Those engaged or interested in such
studies are invited to share the results of their “spiritual
scholarship” with other like-minded friends by making
presentations and/or contributing research-based papers.
The present volume includes articles on a range of topics,
either focused on a certain item in the Bahá’í Writings, or
dealing with a subject related to the fundamental principles and
teachings of the Bahá’í Faith.
Tablet of Patience (Surih Íabr): Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh
and Selected Topics is an analytical presentation of a Tablet of
Bahá’u’lláh revealed on the first day of Riḍván 1863, which is
also named Tablet of Job (Lawh-i-Ayyúb). This paper explores
the relationship between troubles in the path of God, divine
tests and steadfastness during times of tests. It also provides the
historical context for this Tablet and its contents. Tablet of
Patience covers a range of topics mostly dealt with in more

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
detail in the Book of Íqán. The author argues that this Tablet is
an indirect announcement of the Station of Bahá’u’lláh as the
Promised One of Kitáb-i-Bayán.
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call (Mast-and bulbulán)
is a provisional translation of one of Bahá’u’lláh’s poems
together with detailed analysis, verse by verse, giving meaning,
structural specification and comparative references to well-
known poems in Persian literature. This analytical translation
provides a good specimen of the poems of Bahá’u’lláh. This
poem by Bahá’u’lláh is an ecstatic poem, the fruit of the
ecstatic experiences He had in Teheran. It is filled with mystical
conditions.
Finding a Trace of the Traceless Friend is a reflection on
Bahá’í scholarship as a journey in the Valley of Search. It
attempts to shed some light on Bahá’í Scholarship as reflected in
the first valley of the Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh, the Valley of
Search. The combination of finding a “trace” of a “traceless
friend” indicates the mysteriousness and complexity of this
task, and introduces us to the mystical realm. In this paper,
topics such as prerequisites of search, independent investigation
and the role of the heart, culture and tradition, how to deal with
distractions, and the exclusivity of search and sacrificing
everything for it are considered and discussed.
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion pursues a
philosophical examination of the Bahá’í Writings’ ethical
teachings, how they relate to the major ethical systems proposed
in the past, and how they deal with some of the difficulties
inherent in past systems. Among the topics discussed are virtue
ethics, utilitarianism, existentialism, Kant’s theories, natural law
theory, ethical subjectivism and objectivism, relativism,
intuitionism, Nietzschean ethics, and self-realization ethics.
Special attention is made to Udo Schaefer’s magisterial two
volumes “Bahá’í Ethics in Light of Scripture” which is the first
study to undertake a systematic review of Bahá’í ethical
teachings.

Preface
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society
reviews the history of consultation in the Bahá’í Faith from the
time of Bahá’u’lláh to the present time. It then looks at the
ways in which in successive periods importance of consultation
was emphasized and its use was promoted in the community.
Finally, the paper deals with the role of consultation in the
movement from the present established and customary practices
in the world towards the practice that is envisaged in the new
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
The paper on Origin of Creation starts with posing the
question of “Is there a God?” It deals with the profound
implications, and indeed direct impact on the life of mankind
and how it looks upon the very meaning and purpose of life.
Various arguments presented during the history to prove or
disprove the existence of God are briefly reviewed. The author
follows `Abdu’l-Bahá’s approach that the existence of God can
be proven and concludes that the ultimate source of pre-
existence is God, and that the pre-existent properties are
attributes of God.
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious
History — the Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting
Place is a description of the status and leadership role of the
Greatest Holy Leaf, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s sister, in the history of the
Bahá’í Faith. It also deals with the central location of her resting
place among the edifices erected at the Bahá’í World Centre on
Mount Carmel.
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions is a
fascinating attempt to present a bird’s-eye-view of the
structure, practices and basic ideologies of four different
religious trends of Confucianism, Daoism, Buddhism, and
Shenism, each of which reflecting an aspect of Chinese life. It
also deals with various branches, sects, and schools within each
of these religions with references to religious doctrines,
symbols, ceremonies, and even deities of these religious trends
that have been so intermingled in the course of time.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The ELUCIDATIONS section in the Lights of `Irfán includes
letters written by or on behalf of the Universal House of Justice
and documents that have been issued by the Bahá’í World
Centre concerning clarification or elaboration of specific
subjects related to the aims and purposes of the `Irfán
Colloquium and its publications. Included in this book is the
authorized translation from Persian of a letter written on behalf
of Universal House of Justice on “Participation in politics and
social activities”.
The In Memoriam section in this volume pays tribute to dear
supporters of the `Irfán Colloquium who passed away in 2013.
It includes short biographies of Mr. Houshmand Fatheazam, Dr.
Amin Banani, and Ms. Mahboubeh Arjmand. Mr. Fatheazam
was a sincere supporter of the colloquium and made
enlightening presentations in some of the ‘Irfán sessions in
North America and Europe. Dr. Banani was one of the founders
of, and presenters at, the ‘Irfán Colloquium sessions at Bosch
Bahá’í School. The texts of some of the presentations made by
Mr. Fatheazam at the ‘Irfán Colloquia are published in ‘Irfán
publications.2 In the same year, 2013, Ms. Mahboubeh Arjmand,
one of the supporters of Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund,
also passed away in San Diego, California.
Appendix I is the Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviated Titles used in the text of the papers published in
this book, to facilitate referring to the sources of the quoted
statements.
Appendix II is Contents of Previous Volumes of Lights of
`Irfán. Listing the contents of previous volumes also shows the
range, types, methodological approaches and scope of the
papers that are presented, and are welcome to be presented, at
the `Irfán Colloquia. In addition to the papers presented at the
`Irfán Colloquia, research papers related to the main goals of
the `Irfán Colloquium are welcome to be directly submitted for
publication in the Lights of `Irfán.

Preface
Starting with Book Six, we have made two changes to the
`Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix II, “Bibliography of
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations
from Sacred Writings, (not including statements by Shoghi
Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All papers published in this book present the views and
understanding of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. Their writing styles and
scholarly approaches are, therefore, different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the author’s surnames.
Iraj Ayman

NOTE
1 “He also urges you to study the teachings themselves more deeply. Bahá’í
scholarship is needed really more than worldly scholarship, for one is
spiritual, the other more or less transient. There is a real lack in the Cause
of people who know the teachings thoroughly, especially their deeper
truths, and who can consequently teach the souls properly and lay a
permanent foundation, one that tests and trials will not shake down.” (27
August 1951 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer, quoted
in A Compilation on Scholarship, p. 76)
2 See http://irfancolloquia.org/database/author/Fatheazam .

The Emergence and Organization of Chinese
Religions1
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
There has never been a time in recorded history when
leadership has not occupied a central place in people’s views
about politics, war, sport or business. In recent decades, there
has
been
much
research-based
framework
emphasizing
sociological, psychological, behavioural and other theories of
leadership. However, while there have been many studies on
leadership, there has been very little interest on leadership and
succession in religious organisations. For example, Weber
(1993) has described the nature of bureaucracies but has shown
little interest in the internal structure of religion. Likewise, the
field of political science has many papers on democratic
elections but they usually concentrate on policy outcomes.
Economists pay a lot of attention to the internal structure of
firms but not of religion.
Religions are organized in a variety of ways. They may
resemble an elected autocracy, a parliamentary democracy, or
something akin to a monarchy, where heredity plays a primary
role. Mao and Zech (2002) show how doctrinal concerns put
limits on the organisational forms that a religion may take.
Giuriato (2009) in her study of the Catholic Church has written
about
an
elected
autocracy.
Historians
(Reese,
1996,
Baumgarten 1998) have written about the struggle for power
within a particular religion but their methodologies are not the
same. For the most part, their studies are on Christianity and
Islam and very little is known about the management structure
of Chinese religion.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Archaeological discoveries in China have established that,
from the earliest times, the Chinese people have had an
awareness of the unseen power, felt it and worshipped it.
Despite the fact that they had to endure repeated periods of
upheaval, oppression and chaos, there is no questioning the
close and pervading relationship of religion to the daily lives of
the Chine people. Even when religion was at its ebb during the
time of Mao, Mao was called “the red sun in the heart of the
people throughout the world” and was praised for “unlimited
wisdom, courage and strength” and for “always being with us”.
He was often the object of devotion in songs and rituals with a
strongly religious character. Not surprisingly, since the death of
Mao and while the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is avowedly
atheist, it has been growing more tolerant of religious activities
in the last three decades, not just because of the practical
realization that religious impulses are too deeply embedded to
be effectively eradicated, but also that the moral teachings of
religion might be utilized for the running of the secular state.
Hence, various religious forms such as Mazuism in southern
China, Huandi worship, Black Dragon worship in Shaanxi and
Caishen worship in various parts of China have received
support by state officials.
This public resurgence of religious practice in China has
encouraged burgeoning studies on post-Mao China: for
example, Jing (1996), Lagerwey (2004), Huang and Yang (2005),
and Jones (2010, 2011). In particular, Dean (2009), Yang (2000)
and Flower (2004) have examined how a revival of traditional
religious practices has enabled participants to construct
frameworks of morality in their daily lives. Some preliminary
work has even been done on the little known healers and
shamans, for example, Fan (2003) and Cline (2010). Nevertheless
most of this research has been on the history, philosophy,
festivities and ritualistic practices of the Chinese religion, and
there are still “enormous holes” (Dean 2003, 340), one of which
must certainly be on that of temple management, and in

Chinese Religions
particular leadership and succession, which is the focus of this
paper.
Research Methodology
Three research trips each about a month’s duration to villages
and townships in the vicinity of Tong’an and Zhangzhou, Fujian
in 2010; Longnan and Tianshui, Gansu in 2011; and to Baoji and
Xi’an, Shaanxi, in 2013 were undertaken by myself. During
these periods, I was able to do ethnographic studies of temple
festivities. Many interviews were conducted at religious sites
and interviews and the interviewees included spirit mediums,
temple managers, Taoist priests and priestesses, monks, nuns,
lay
temple
staff
and
ordinary
worshippers.
Informal
conversation was also undertaken with villagers, intellectuals
and provincial cadres in the provincial religious bureaus. Some
of these were tape-recorded or videoed for subsequent
reflection and analysis. In my travels to rural areas of these
provinces, I have found a temple in almost every village. I have
witnessed a recycling of discontinued ritual practices and new
construction of temples and, last but not least, listened to
monks preaching the scriptures to ever-increasing numbers of
devotees.
Three modes of research may be discerned: 1) participant
observation at temple festivities and interviews with temple
keepers; 2) case studies of the lives of spirit-mediums through a
one-to-one interview; and 3) home visits to adherents of
sectarian organisations. My research questions are concerned
with leadership and succession; namely, the nature of the
religious leadership such as appointment, tenure, and demise
and the relationship between administrative procedures and
religious practice.
The total amount of time I have spent on fieldwork is small
compared with the amount of time ethnographers typically
spend in the field, and I am aware of the limitations of my
work. However, instead of waiting for fuller information, I

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
thought it prudent to share my research quickly in view of the
dearth of studies on this topic. As the organizational structure
of the Bahá’í Faith is already well known to the reader of the
Lights of ‘Irfán, this paper has placed its main focus on the
Chinese religion through a description of its many temples, as a
means to give a preliminary insight into its management
structure and especially on leadership and succession. Only in
the concluding section is there a commentary engaged on the
main similarities and differences between the Chinese religion
and the Bahá’í Faith, as gleaned from the research.
The “Chinese Religion”
The whole of China may be considered a sacred space,
containing a continent of spirits, not all of which are
metaphorical. Not surprisingly, Abdu’l-Bahá (1844–1921) has
paid tribute to the Chinese people, describing them as “simple-
hearted and truth-seeking”. “In China one can teach many souls
and train and educate such divine personages that each one of
them may become the bright candle of the world of humanity.”2
The term “Chinese religion” comprises Confucianism,
Daoism, Buddhism, and Shenism, each of which reflects on an
aspect of Chinese life. Confucianism is associated with the
bureaucracy, the traditional educational system, and the
collection of political-moral values drawn from Confucius’
teachings (Chew 1993). Popular Daoism is essentially concerned
with basic issues such as life, death and immortality and
pragmatic issues related to health, wealth, business and
marriage. Sinitic Mahayana Buddhism aims to teach the Buddhist
scriptures as a means of attaining salvation. Finally, Shenism is a
collection of ancient folk practices focusing on the worship of
numerous gods and spirits, exorcism of demons, and the use of
potions and spells for healing and good fortune.
To add to the tapestry, there are also various sects, subsets,
and schools within each of these religions. For example,
philosophical Taoism is quite different from religious Taoism.

Chinese Religions
Philosophical Taoism is represented by the philosophies of Lao-
tzu (circa 600 B.C.E.) and Chuang-tzu (circa 370–319 B.C.E.), two
influential Chinese sages, documented in texts ascribed to them
— namely, the Tao-teching and the Chuang-tzu — as well as later
materials such as the Huainanzi and the Liezi. Religious Taoism
can be traced to Chang Tao-ling (circa second century C.E.),
who claimed that he had a vision, whereby Lao-tzu gave him the
authority to organize religious communities, to forgive faults
and sins, to heal, and, more important, to exorcise ghosts,
demons, and evil spirits. Over the centuries various schools of
religious Taoism arose with different degrees of emphasis on
revelations, healing, rituals, oracles, and other shamanistic
practices, as evident in the Lushan rite, the Duangong ritual and
theatrical traditions of Sichuan and the thunder rites of Hunan
etc. (Dean 2009). Chinese Buddhism is predominantly of the
Sinitic Mahayana variety and in itself have many subsets, such as
the T’ien-t’ai, the Hua-yen, the Ch’an, the Pure Land, and Folk
Buddhism, both in mainland China and the Chinese communities
in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macau and Southeast Asia.
Another layer is added to this complexity through syncretism
in almost every possible combination. Often, statues of
Confucius, Lao-tzu, and Buddha are set up as objects of
veneration alongside those of traditional Chinese immortals. In
religious ceremonies, Buddhist and Taoist priests and laymen of
various beliefs are seen performing their rites together. Indeed,
religious doctrines, symbols, ceremonies, and even deities have
been so intermingled that it is difficult for even scholars to tell
if they are of Confucian, Buddhist, or Taoist origin. For
example, Caishen (财神), the God of Wealth, begun as a Chinese
folk hero but today both Daoism and Mahayana Buddhism
venerate him as a God. Similarly, while Guanyin (观音) is
inspired from the male bodhisattva Avalokite vara, of India,
“he” has now become a “she” and is venerated as a Chinese
immortal.
In addition to the above variants of the Chinese religion,
there are “charity temples” which are lay in character and which

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
meet in private homes. The religious bureau refer to them as
jihui (集会) although they may be more aptly called guohui
(过会) since they are variations on the theme of mutual help
associations which have a long history both in and outside
China. Their members recognize the validity of Confucianism,
Taoism, Buddhism, Islam, Christianity, and Judaism.
In this paper, the management structure of Chinese religion
is discussed under five broad categories of “temples”, defined
here as an edifice or place dedicated to the service or worship of
a deity or deities. Under this broad definition, some Chinese
homes may be considered temples to themselves since within
their vicinity are altar(s) displaying gods such as Caishen (财神),
Guanyin (观音), and Maitreya (弥勒佛). In Chinese, Miao (庙) is
a word which refers to all kinds of Chinese temples especially
non-Buddhist ones while those which are more Buddhist are
called si (寺). While the subsequent discussion is presented
under a typology of “temple structures”, namely: 1) home
temple; 2) the small built temple; 3) committee temples; 4) the
monastic temple; 5) tourist temple; and last but not least, 6)
charity temples; in practice, they are often not as discrete as
they are made out to be, and their varied physical
manifestations could and should be more usefully construed as a
continuum of religious practices, oftentimes overlapping.
The Home Temple
The “household idiom” (Chau 2010) of the Chinese religion is
essentially a private residence. It happens when a member of the
household begins to show gifts of divination, and unusual
spiritual powers such as glossolalia or the performance of
superhuman feats. Family members will then begin to realize
their sibling’s “special talents” and begin to consult him or her
with regards to their spiritual needs. The news of the divining
“gift” of this member of the family soon spreads to the
extended family and soon neighbours also begin to knock at the
door. Family members may have to help if the initial trickle of

Chinese Religions
visitors turns into a stream. Eventually, frequent visitors may
inconvenience the family and they may then try to “systematize”
the visitation by delegating certain times or days of the week
for consultation so that their own schedules may not be
compromised. With time, a dedicated room may be assigned, an
altar may be set up and a table purchased. Other religious
paraphernalia such as a statue or picture of the deity(s), censors,
joss-sticks, charm papers, candles, may then be added and what
first began as a spontaneous “service” becomes a formal
“occupation”. As seekers and a “clientele” begin to arrive from
other villages or towns, family members may be pressed to
consider the building of a separate structure near their abode
and if none is available, they may look for a building either to
rent, purchase or build.
There were two mediums, shenpo (神婆), Mdm Liu and
Madam Yan, whom I visited in Western Shaanxi respectively.
Mdm Liu operated from the upper floor of her home, which had
little signs of religiosity from the exterior. However, as we
climbed the stairs to the second floor there was an altar on
which were heaped daily offerings of food, water, incense and
appropriate language. She looked like any other person, was
very pleasant but has been maimed since youth. When a small
crowd of about 10 to 12 people started to form, she began to
go into a trance by kneeling before Jiutian Xuannu  (九天玄女
Mysterious Maid of the Highest Heavens) who would graciously
descend at her request to do service. During the time of entry
and exit of the deity, Mdm Liu shook violently and two male
members of the household had to restraint her physically, one
on either side, in case she fell. As Jiutian Xuannu and now
seated on a heavily-built chair, Mdm Liu began to speak with a
distinctly different accent to each person (neatly in queue) who
knelt in front of her to ask their respective question(s). As she
gave the advice, her two assistants would simultaneously
scribble some writings on a talisman, made of either cloth or
paper. For example, if the oracle responded to a query on
illness, there usually would be a prescription given. The assistant

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
would then advise the client as to what to do with the
prescription — either to bring it to the pharmacy, to burn it at
the altar or to dilute part of it with the medicine prescribed.
As for Mdm Yan, she was “initially confused” when the “call”
came in the 1990’s. She was the third child of five siblings, none
of whom were particularly religious, visiting the neighboring
temple only occasionally, and mostly during festivals. Before
she became a medium at the age of 40, she had had recurring
dreams that she was to give her body to Guanyin. These visions
interfered with her work as a baker’s assistant. She was
eventually dismissed from her job and a close friend then
advised her on the vocation of mediumship. Her husband and
two children were initially afraid and feared that she would be
“lost”, but eventually she managed to overcome their
objections. The family has now accepted her as she is, and even
assists her during her trances, which take place twice weekly.
Clients appear at her household waiting for advice with regards
to problems related to money, education, children, etc.
Both mediums sat on specially designated chairs during the
trance and meditated in front of altars replete with visuals and
statues of deities. Both had low education, never held a steady
job in their lives and could only speak in the vernacular.
Although of low social status, their special abilities gave them a
chance for “respectability” in the village. They did not appear to
profess knowledge about religious scriptures or philosophy
since what was important to them was not knowledge per se but
a belief in the “spirit”, striving to do good, the accumulation of
merit and the use of appropriate language. When I enquired
about the financial aspect of the enterprise, they were puzzled
and explained that money was not the main criteria but that
what was important was sincerity, helpfulness and the
appeasement of the gods.3 No fees were charged but clients were
free to give a donation to offset the cost of maintaining the
altar (food, fruits, candles, incense, etc.) if they felt disposed to
do so. Clients could also, on their own volition, attend special
intercession rituals on the 1st and 15th day of the lunar month.

Chinese Religions
Both mediums had assistants (family members, the occasional
neighbor) to assist them in a trance state, and their helpful tasks
included the handling of ritual objects, the wiping of the altar
table, assisting in the translation of the oracle and instructing
clients on appropriate behavior in the presence of the medium,
etc.
The house temple remains alive as long as the divining power
is existent. Its operational cost is low and a small number of
local patrons is all that is required to keep it going. The temple
is a law unto itself, without prior existing power structures, and
there is no management pyramid to climb. Mediumship is not
normally “taught” but “caught” and there are no liturgies or
canonical precepts to imbibe. The medium’s success is based on
his or her performance and a skilled medium will attract many,
while an ineffective one will soon have to close his/her practice.
Some mediums are known to lose their “power” as swiftly as
they acquire it and if this be the case, the home ceases to be a
temple. Some mediums also relocate and take their temples with
them. As a home enterprise, succession is normally passed to a
member of the family. However, this is only possible on
condition that the predetermined successor has managed to
cultivate an affinity with the spirit. If this is not possible, upon
the medium’s death or retirement, the home temple may once
again be return to private residency or left vacant, sold, or
rented to another spirit-medium.
While such home temples are regarded as prime examples of
‘feudal superstition’ by the government, and hence “illegal”,
many officials choose not to interfere and close one eye to their
presence since they are small non-political concerns, especially
if they or their family members happen to be clients of the
medium as well. Indeed, during the height of the Cultural
Revolution (1966-1971) when statues of deities were smashed or
discarded, house temples continued their unobtrusive practices
and through word-of-mouth, villagers continued to gather
within to perform religious ceremonies.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Small Built (Spirit) Temple
When the home temple becomes too small for a growing
clientele, a separate dedicated temple structure, the “small built
(spirit) temple,” may be constructed. These have a humble
beginning from mud and thatch and may look more like a
shrine. Over time, it will have a concrete floor, or brick wall,
built from the occasional largesse from grateful clients, and
when this results, the place may no longer look like a
nondescript residence but more like a “temple” (Overmyer
2009). For one, an altar will predominate on which are placed
many visuals and statues of the deity (or deities). The walls,
pillars and roof of the small building may be gifted with a paint
of red and gold with carvings of mythological animals such as
the pixiu and the qilin.4 If the incense burner is free standing,
there will usually be a table in front of it with a lamp to light
the incense. There may be more than one incense burner,
depending on the number of visitors. Holders for stick candles
and “wish candles” may also be placed in front of the incense
burner.
Such small temples originating from spirit mediumship are
owned by a family and may be classified as a small business, in
which case they will have to be registered with the authorities.
One member is usually chosen as the steward while another may
function as the manager, or the two roles may reside in the same
member. In Zhangzhou, I met the temple manager, Mr Chu,
who informed me that he began his spirit-mediumship as a child
of 5, when his grandparents, both of whom were themselves
mediums, dreamt that Guangze Zunwang (广泽尊王), the
ancestral God of filial piety, had designated him to take over the
successorship.5 Hence, while his other siblings graduated from
middle school, he was only educated up to Elementary Grade 3.
On festivals, he took his role as a child medium in trance
alongside his parents and grandparents and did his fair share as
an altar-lad assistant. He is versed in chanting and ritualistic
dance, and has some knowledge of herbal medicine. When his

Chinese Religions
parents died within a week of each other, he stepped into their
shoes not just as the resident medium of the temple but also as
its manager. He received help from family members especially
on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar calendar when many
visitors would visit the temple to pray.
Mr. Chu reported that he also had cousins who were mediums
in other temples. While these temples may not be exactly
identical in ideological practice to his, this is not so important
as much as the fact that they are helpful to each other. At times,
the clan may get together to hold bigger and more impressive
commemorations of holy days for the villagers. On major
festivals such as the birthday of the deity(s), they may enact a
makeshift stage for a theatrical performance as well as other
ritualistic ceremonies in honor of the deit(ies). In this way, a
blood and spiritual bond is created and a “brotherhood” of
many spirit-mediums in session together from neighboring
temples is not uncommon.
These temples are sustained by donations from worshippers.
The main act of worship is the lighting of incense or joss sticks,
which are generally provided to worshipers in exchange for a
small donation. As congregational membership is non-existent
and worshippers are not required to have allegiance to any
temple — indeed, many do not have allegiance to any temple at
all, but visit different temples for different needs — the
manager may also find it prudent to incorporate popular
bodhisattvas into the temple such as the Milefo (弥勒佛), the
future Buddha, and Shakyamuni (释迦牟尼), the historical
Buddha, flanked by Jiayefo (迦叶佛) and Guanyin. There are also
nature gods, e.g. gods of soil and grain, the dragon god who
manage wind and rain, the five emperors of the five directions,
the sun god, and the moon lady, the various powers of the
planets and the northern dipper. Sometimes their statues are
placed in glass-fronted cabinets, and wooden tables are placed
in front of them to hold the religious offerings of fruits and
food. Padded cushions for kneeling are usually placed in front
of the altar. Each altar or hall of the deity has “merit boxes”

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
(gongdexiang 功德箱) where devotees may place a cash offering
if they so desire.
With the growth of the temple, a shrine or two may be added
and small appendages to the building constructed. A special
room may be dedicated for families who wish to put tablets of
their families on a dedicated altar. Here, initial or regular
donations may be necessary to “maintain” the ancestral tablets
through the offerings of food and prayers on special occasions.6
Indeed, some temples may be “private” ones dedicated only to
these functions.
An additional service in many smaller temples, especially
when the medium is not in attendance, is qiuqian (求签), “seek
the deity’s answers through fortune poems”. Here the
worshipper uses a set of fortune poems which is done by
shaking a container of numbered bamboo slips until one of the
slips falls to the group. The number of the slip corresponds to
the number of one of the fortune poems and the poem provides
the god’s answers to the worshipper’s questions or problems. In
busy temples, professional explainers provide explanations of
the meaning of the poem, in relation to the worshipper’s
problems, for a fee.
As the temple grows, more branches may be formed, some of
which are breakaways rather than ‘legal” representative
branches. Breakaways result after the passing of the patriarch
and when there is a disagreement as to how a temple is to be
run. Here, a sibling or partner in the family operation breaks
away and builds another temple either in the same or
neighbouring village to practice his or her own version of
religiosity. This act, of course, engenders the inevitable
acrimony between what are now two competing sects of the
same temple. The viability of the new operation will depend not
just on whether the breakaway will be able to draw adherents
but also keep his own operation intact without generating
additional breakaways from his own nascent group. In addition,

Chinese Religions
when the temple owner loses interest in his “business”, the
temple may be abandoned or sold to other operators.
Larger Committee (Priestly) Temples
While the rural temple may be small family or clan-run
concerns, larger temples in townships and counties are highly
visible affairs where official registration with the authorities
become important. Here, one may find prominently displayed
on the temple’s noticeboard a certificate of authorization as a
place of religious practice (宗教使用场所) alongside a set of
regulations banning foreign intervention and control of
religious activities and organizations. Such temples are more
often run by a committee of unrelated members, most of whom
are the elders or respected of the religion. They may run it
themselves as a committee (comprising normally a chairperson,
vice-chairperson,
secretary,
treasurer
and
sub-committee
members) with the help of a full-time salaried “steward” to run
the day-to-day operations. These committees are not to be taken
lightly since they provide a growing range of social and cultural
services and infrastructural improvement at the local level
whenever central government control or intervention declined.
They sponsor religious rites, manage popular communal operas
and according to Dean (2009) are akin to “China’s second
government”.
Such temples may also employ full or part-time Daoist
priest(s). The payment for the priests usually goes to the Head
Priest who will then allocate it among his subordinates. Unlike
the spirit-mediums who are more concerned with faith, the
priest is usually a literate and educated individual who is
concerned in performing rituals with some orderliness. Here,
priests perform daily rituals before the altar to the principal
deity on a schedule that is determined by agreement with the
temple managers. The priests are dressed in colorful robes, are
involved in coordinated chanting, singing and bowing before
the altar with occasional accompaniment by percussion

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
instruments. Their oratorio-like liturgical performance often
provides a solemn and spiritual spectacle for viewers (Chau
2011).
Their
chanting,
often
in
scriptural
language
incomprehensible to adherents, creates a calming and spiritual
atmosphere which is soothing.
There is another advantage of engaging the clergy as most of
them are registered with a branch of the official Daoist
association to which they report. This then becomes a way for
most temples to gain the necessary legitimacy with the state.
Head priests may be expected to meet important visitors and
government officials and they are normally appointed by the
local Daoist association, which may also get a share of the
annual payment paid to the priest. While their presence may be
an expensive item in the temple’s budget, this is often
compensated by the fact that they may be commissioned to
perform special “private” ceremonies by devotees. In such cases,
the money earned will be split between the priest and the
temple’s general accounts.
There are a variety of ways to recruit the priests (Yang et al.
2005). One may engage them through a contract arranged
through the local Daoist Association which is a sub-branch of
the Chinese Daoist Association (CDA) (中国道教协会).7 Monks
here are graduates of the Quanhen sect with their headquarters
in Beijing (白云观, White Cloud Temple). CDA has branches all
over China and Quanchen graduates work in state-sponsored
institutions and government agencies, having been trained not
only in Daoism but also Marxism. Another source of hire is
from a local lineage which means that the priest in question has
been trained under a specific ritual master and adopted into his
or her lineage such as Celestial Masters (神仙). Daoist ritual
masters transmit their liturgical texts and practices to their sons
and disciples in discrete, local lines of transmission. Some
ordination certificates make a reference to Longhushan
(龙虎山), the hereditary center of the Zhengyi Tianshi Celestial
Masters (正一天师). The system is not too regulated yet and
some temple managers or entrepreneurs can move between

Chinese Religions
temples. Some also gain qualifications to serve in a temple with
very minimal training (cf. Yang et al. 2005).
With the secularization of religious activities, there are
further opportunities for income generation. For example,
“temple fair” activities have recently become major fundraising
events for temples. Such fairs are a form of both worship and
entertainment and are recognized by provincial authorities as
‘immaterial cultural heritage’ (非物质文化遗产) worthy of
preservation. The contents of the temple fairs are different
from place to place but generally the following stable features
may be discerned: the local opera, shadow-play and story-telling.
Additional personages such as guest monks, spirit–mediums, a
Chinese orchestra, acrobats and the Lion and Dragon dance
troupes are also invited to complement the activities in the
temple.
Monastic Temples
While the concept of “priest” is associated with Daoism, the
concept of a “monk” is more akin to Buddhism. However, due
to the syncretic nature of Chinese religion, it may at times be
difficult to differentiate the two and the term may be used
interchangeably. For example, some monks may be approached
to perform exorcism and dispense charms, in which case he may
actually function like a Daoist priest. On the other hand, I have
witnessed state-licensed Daoist priests in Baoji performing
healing sessions in Buddhist temples and functioning much like a
jitong (乩童) but without the self-mortification which may
accompany such events.
Some monastic temples are on faraway mountain cliffs
therefore outside institutional control. However, others which
are more accessible are well-known, for example, Mount Tai in
the east (1545 m., near Confucius birthplace in Qufu), Hua in
the west (2200 m., near Xian), Heng in the north (2017 m.),
Nanyue (Hengshan) in the south (1290 m. near Changsha) and
Song in the center (1440 m., near Luoyang, south of the Shaolin

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
monastery). Most of these mountains have multiple peaks and
include large scale temples at the bottom as well as numerous
hermitage and monasteries perched on mountain tops and built
into cliffs. The monks in the mountainous region aim to pursue
enlightenment through meditation and learning and in this
regard they are different from the monks in the city, whose
functions are more ceremonial and consultative.
Monastic temples are those which contain residency and
schooling
for
Buddhist
monks.
The
lowest
rank
is
shami（沙弥） or acolyte (an inexperienced monk who has
recently entered religion). The next rank is biqiu (比丘) (a
Buddhist monk as he gains experience). The third is zhuchi (主持
or 方丈) or abbot (the superior of an abbey of monks). The
administrative staff in a temple include fangzhang (方丈) or
abbot, jianyuan (监院) or monastic manger and shouzuo (首座)
or chief monk. The abbot runs the temple in a patriarchal and
authoritarian manner as would the head of a typical Chinese
household with a knowledge learnt through apprenticeship from
a master which is in turn imparted to his disciples. He controls
both the religious and administrative activities and assigns
various tasks to his disciples and temple assistants. He is the
spiritual guardian, the model of morality and personal behavior
and he may be able to lecture on the dharma.
Monastic temples derived income from the provision of
religious service. Substantial financial contributions may also be
given by grateful worshippers or merchants who have benefitted
from the temples as contractors of various services to the
monastery. Generally, the temple’s relationship to its adherent is
based on mutual benefit — where the worshippers enjoy
religious service and who in turn will donate some largesse
should their prayers be granted. Income for temple maintenance
is also available from the practices of purification, exorcism,
healing and blessings (for marriages, houses, cars and
businesses), as well as from the sale of talismans, amulets, and
charms. Like Daoist priests, Mahayana monks are also hired not
just for communal sacrifices (jisi 祭祀; fahui 法会) at local

Chinese Religions
temples dedicated to the gods of the local pantheon, but also at
private funeral and requiem services and other minor rites for
individuals and families from which they may receive a fee.
In the last decade, as part of the process of increasing
legalization in China, there has been a gradual trend towards the
need for fiscal oversight, legal property rights and a more
formalized organization subjected to the rules and regulations
spelled out in the Buddhist Association of China (中国佛教协会)
which is under the Bureau of Religious Affairs.8 Hence, larger
monastic temples have a part which is administrative and a part
which is religious and while monks and nuns may be involved in
administration, they are usually confined to the religious sphere.
Such temples enjoy the managerial expertise of a lay committee.
Here, the chairperson, who is also a Buddhist, is empowered to
make decisions after consultations with committee members,
subject to the local Buddhist/Daoist association, the first
supervising
body
which
is
state-controlled
and
whose
administrators include ordained clergy as well as supportive lay
followers. In such a scenario, the daily running of the temple
(correspondences, records, and coordination) is usually under
the purview of the Vice-President and Secretary. The treasurer is
concerned with the collection of subscriptions or donations
form members. He/she holds the petty cash account and defrays
small expenditures incurred by temple, while larger expenditure
are approved by the main committee, which are audited.
Numerous sub-committees, headed by a sub-leader, help with
other tasks such as temple publications, fundraising, and charity
work and temple restoration.
Tourist Temples
Tourist temples are managed and controlled by government
or business instead of religionists and their religious dimension
is overshadowed by other concerns (Chau 2011).9 Since the
1990’s many new temples have been built, reconstructed or
restored not just as a means of cultural self-assertion but also as

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
a means of revenue generation (Yang et al. 2005). The Shaolin
temple in Henan is one temple that draws a steady stream of
visitors, most arriving on tour buses, because of its historic
significance and its uniqueness as a famous center for martial
arts training. Other temples in the mountains are also able to
attract visitors for similar reasons. Understandably, these
temples are supervised not just by the Religious Affairs Bureau
but also by the Department of Tourism. Not so much concerned
with religious activities or the creation of a spiritual
atmosphere, they are manned by a management interested
mainly in revenue and the smooth entertainment of large
crowds. Part of the profits are channeled towards restoration
and expansion, so that many temples now have a revived and
energized look, are open to the public, and offer a wide variety
of religious resources (books, charms, herbs, teas, martial
training). There are also state-run temples such as the Wild
Goose Pagoda in Xi’an (西安市), where the government will
tacitly choose the religious leaders who are schooled in the
doctrine of Marxism and compliant with governmental
supervision. While beautiful, without an active oracle and the
mediumistic talents which was the beginning of the whole
process, the gods remain lifeless, encased in their museum-like
tombs.
Not all entrepreneurial ventures such as these are successful.
For example the former home of Chinese saint, Huang Daxian,
was originally erected in 1995 to draw tourists and overseas
pilgrims (Chan and Lang 2007). As this was not successful, the
township officials modified their efforts and tried to draw local
visitors instead through the contract-responsibility system.
Here, the temple is contracted to a head priest who would be
required to pay an agreed rental annually to the committee in
return for the right to operate the temple (and to keep surplus
revenues). It now depends on the charisma and management
skills of the head priest to keep the temple going through the
organization of festivities and other religious activities. One
popular way of generating a revenue stream for temples is

Chinese Religions
through the installation of light towers. These towers are
circular structures, about three to six feet high placed near the
main altar so that the deity’s benevolence may radiate over
them, implying the blessings and protection provided by the
divine forces in the temple. The towers comprise ascending
rows of electrically illuminated niches, each of which carries a
person’s name and date of birth and symbolically represents the
presence of those who have purchased niches in the towers. The
price for each niche in a light tower varies, depending on
whether the niche is in a larger band of niches at the bottom, or
a smaller band near the top.
In brief, tourist temples, such as Zhongnanshan Guanyin
Chanyuan (终南山观音禅院/) at the foot of Qinling Mountain
in Chang’an, are built at the expense of private entrepreneurs
and therefore are accountable to the local business company.
These are run along the guidelines of modern corporations and
defer to the chief investor who has close ties with government
officials.10 Indeed, more and more Chinese Buddhist and Taoist
temples are passively packaged with tourist products and some
are even listed on the stock market.11
Charity Temples
Charity temples share features of secularity, sectarianism,
benevolence and religiosity and are a traditional distinctive
feature of traditional Chinese practice dating to the shantang
(benevolent halls 善堂) and shanhui (benevolent associations
善会) of the Ming dynasty. They take place in homes or offices,
and are relatively democratic as membership is non-hierarchical
and without a central authority. Preferring spontaneity and
innovation rather than stylized liturgies, they are basically lay
gatherings with no professional clergy. They are opportunistic,
non-dogmatic,
consultative
groups
of
spiritually-minded
people. They have a pragmatic “do it because it works” and
“seek spiritual guidance because it pays.” While some have
charismatic leaders, many do not. They are basically grassroots

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
movements, well-organized with members passing information
to one another through an informal network. There is no
national umbrella for such organizations as these are centered in
homes and therefore do not require any registration with the
authorities.12 While some may be registered, most are not. For
example, the Beijing-based Yidanxuetang (一耽学堂), a non-
profit association, is legal and carries out a number of activities
such as rites and ceremonies to honor Confucius, study tours in
the countryside, editing word and charitable acts (Billoud
2011).13
Charity temples are basically mutual help organizations,
philanthropic, and benevolent in nature. They share a set of
Confucian ethical standards and moral obligations such as the
Hall of Spreading Benevolence (广瑞堂) established by social
elites in Tianjin in 1878 (cf. Laliberte 2011). The members are
encouraged to follow morality practices such as the “five
ethics” and “eight virtues” (from Confucianism), say daily
prayer two or three times a day, attend religious classes, and
chant scriptures. Their constitution lists objectives such as the
promotion of morals and values irrespective of race, color and
creed, and the worship and reverence of founders of all major
religions. Good deeds are more important than priestly words
and some of these temples have contributed to the building of
schools, old folks home and the running of free clinics for the
poor.
Charity temples are also religious in nature since their
dedication to the common good stems basically from religious
motives. Palmer (2011) terms them as “salvationist” while Duara
(2003) refers to them as “redemptive societies” as they are
influenced by an ancient millenarian and syncretistic tradition
and advocate the salvation of both the self and the world.
Rather than being world-denying or other-worldly, they are
affirmative, multiracial and multi-religious. Many practice
divination, spirit-writing, healing and ancestor veneration. On
special occasions, an entranced medium may write out messages
believed to originate from the patron saint of the association.

Chinese Religions
These messages include commentaries on Confucian and Daoist
classics, stories of karmic retribution from Buddhism,
descriptions of spirit-journeys to otherworldly realms, moral
exhortations, and theoretical treatises on points of religious
doctrine and cultivation. These commentaries may be discussed
in regular group meetings that resemble a combination of
Protestant preaching and Sunday school. Studied by group
members, they may be collected and published for distribution
to the public as “morality books” (善书).
The porous, essentially inclusive and undogmatic nature of
charity temples attracts many adherents. While this may explain
its strength in the several home gatherings I have attended, these
associations are also highly sectarian in nature. Its open-
endedness and flexibility means that certain groups may add
new ideas which may not agree well with all members, leading a
section to break away, since in the very first instance, there are
only very general principles to adhere to. For example, while the
Xiantian Dao (先天道) sect claim to represent a Way (dao 道)
that transcends and unites all other through the unity of the
“five religions (Confucianism, Taoism, Buddhism, Christianity
and Islam), the group is paradoxically divided into various
“breakaway”
subgroups
with
variations
in
liturgy,
organizational
structure
and
doctrine.
Its
deviational
offsprings, such as the Tongshan She (同善社 “Society of
Goodness”), Tian De (天德教 “Sacred Religion of Celestial
Virtue”) and Tien Di (天帝教 “Religion of the Lord of
Heaven”), Daoyuan (道院 “Sanctuary of the Tao”), and the Ci
Hui Tang (慈惠堂 “Compassion Society”), continue to resemble
the mother body through their non-ascriptive voluntary path of
salvation; and an embodied experience through healing.14
Dissension commonly occurs at the passing of the founder or
charismatic leader or sub-leader. For example, in the case of the
Yiguan Dao (一贯道, “the Pervasive Truth”) at the time of its
patriarch, Chang T’ien-jen’s death in 1947, the nominal
leadership passed though the hands of the Matriarch Madam Sun
Hui Ming.15 There were opposition to her leadership and the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
group eventually split into a number of separate branches, all of
them developing more or less independently with many making
their way to Hong Kong, Taiwan, the United States and
Southeast Asia establishing their own versions of the Yíguàn
Dào. Today, Yíguàn Dào remains a family of closely related but
autonomous branch associations.
These associations are not legally registered in China but
many continue to exist in private homes and one must be
invited to attend its private sessions since there are no public
announcements of its meetings. It is not very clear how these
associations are organized since ordinary members themselves
often do not know how it is run, professing, when asked, that
“names are unimportant” — it is only the teachings (and the
good deeds) to be passed to others that are important. Indeed,
most grassroots members do not know the official names of
their groups or the names of the founder-members of the group.
However, we may assume that among each active group are
informally elected chairperson and secretary, treasurer, and a
list of other sub-committee members, much as one may expect
of a legally registered society. The owner of the home in which
it is held is usually a leader or sub-leader of the group and “a
descendant of famous masters.” The informal management
usually comprises the largest donors and or the most successful
teachers of the group.
Some of these groups may on special occasions elect to meet
in a neighboring temple to worship. Sometimes, one group or
several groups may combine their resources to build their own
dedicated committee temple and in this way start life afresh as a
legally registered entity.
Conclusion
This paper has attempted to unravel the diversity and
complexity in the emergence and organization of Chinese
temples with particular focus on their leadership and succession
procedures. It is clear that religiosity is alive and well in

Chinese Religions
mainland China and that China is, in reality, a religious state
and Chinese society a religious one (cf. Lagerway 2010). While
all local religious groups are monitored strictly by national and
state organizations under the supervision of the Religious
Affairs Bureau of the State Council, there is a great regional
variation in the degree of support and cooperation between
these agencies and religious institutions. In some provinces,
such as Sichuan and Hubei, Chinese religionists are made very
welcome and religious activities are supported with enthusiasm.
In other provinces, such as Shaanxi and Hunan, politicians tend
to be wary of religious organizations and a relatively restrictive
mode prevails.
I will now conclude by drawing comparisons from other
religions, not least to add scope to the discussion but also to
illuminate the practice of leadership and succession in the field
of comparative religion. Here, the Bahá’í Faith is given
particular attention not least because it emphasizes the spiritual
unity of all humankind, that diversity of race and culture are
seen as worthy of appreciation and acceptance, and that all
major religions stem from the same spiritual source; but also
because this journal is centered on its scholarly study.
Succession is a problem with many religions and the Chinese
religion is not an exception to the rule. In our survey, sectarian
divisions abound, in various syncretic forms within the Chinese
religion. While temples may be sold, restarted, closed down, and
expanded, according to changing social-economic circum-
stances, the greatest test of viability usually comes at the time
when the founder or patriarch/matriarch passes away. At such
occasions, there is often a power struggle and the temple may be
split into two or more factions. This phenomenon is not
peculiar to Chinese religion but is common in all major
religions. For example, Islam was split after the death of the
Prophet Mohammad between the followers of Abu Bakr (Sunni)
and those of Ali bin Abu Talib (Shia). Christianity has seen even
more fractures even before the well-known split of Martin
Luther from the Catholic fold in the 16th century.16 Chinese

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
religion has had a long history of factionalisms and disunity.
Hence, the establishment of the Buddhist and Daoist
associations by the Chinese government should not simply be
seen as a measure of social control but also as a means to
promote the public image of the Chinese religion. For example,
both the Taoist and Buddhist associations aim to banish the
superstitious, mystical magical elements of Chinese religion and
to standardize and consolidate its teachings so as to allow it to
move with the times.17 Successorship problems are often due to
the lack of clearly written succession codes. In contrast, the
Bahá’í Faith is predicated upon clear and detailed instructions
within its own sacred text. Explicit instructions concerning
successorship are also given. Bahá’u’lláh clearly named a
successor in the Book of the Covenant, which also serves as his
Last Will and Testament. There is no such authoritative
document in the Chinese religion and, as we have already
recounted, any individual who feels spiritually endowed can
start his own home temple or join a religious order as a means
of exercising religious power.
An examination of the management structure of Chinese
religion shows it to be run much like a family firm. Hence,
despite guidelines laid down by the Daoist and Buddhist
Associations and the Bureau of Religious Affairs, Chinese
temples are still not quite regarded as civic institutions with
activities accountable to the public. Leadership remains
basically patriarchal and based on the Confucian “familial”
structure where the eldest member, usually male, prevails. In
monastic temples, the clergy is organized like a family and
promotion within the order depends on the whims and fancies
of the chief monk, the patriarch. In committee temples,
although the chairperson has to consult his committee before
making a decision, more often than not the committee members
will defer to his wishes or say what the “head” of the temple
wishes to hear. While large temples may theoretically confine
the Head monk to the role of religious specialist in line with
modern management principles, it must be noted that many

Chinese Religions
monks continue to assume the status of the administrative
chairperson, while nominating religious duties to others under
his charge. Even when de jure power is held by an appointed lay
member chair, it is the head monk who is the de facto head of
the temple, as he is often regarded, deferentially, as the
“grandfather”. Similarly, in the small built temple, the temple
manager is the “patriarch” (or “matriarch”) of decision making
whether or not he is the spirit medium or a manager of the spirit
medium. It is often the tendency of the leader to elect a
successor who will allow him or her to keep their influence and
legacy. Even in relatively democratic charity temples, the
elections of key “senior” members are done through prayers and
planchette divination. The problem is that in most scenarios,
these key senior members are themselves planchette mediums or
have a relationship to planchette mediums through which they
may easily influence nominations. In contrast to the above
practice of familial autocratic leadership, the Bahá’í Faith is
administered by a unique combination of freely elected councils
and a complementary institution of appointed advisers which
operates at the local, regional, national, and international levels.
There is no class of ecclesiastics or clergy in the Bahá’í Faith.
According to Mao Zedong, “women hold up half the sky”
(妇女能顶半边天), but I saw few women in leadership position
in temples other than that of the home temple. There appears to
be a glass ceiling for women temple leaders, be it in the small
built, committee, monastic, tourist and/or charity temples. Yet
temple women do a tremendous amount of background work,
such
as
coordination
with
patrons
and
worshippers,
administrative, secretarial and domestic duties and assisting the
monks in ritual service. Bounkenborg (2012) has recounted a
scenario where males are openly seen in “frontline roles” in the
temple fair of a local dragon deity in Fanzhuang, Hebei, while
female spiritual mediums are doing “background” ritualistic
duties in the home. This “glass ceiling” amidst the rise of global
feminism is not peculiar only to Chinese religion but also a
current challenge faced by other major religions such as

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Christianity, Islam and Hinduism where the patriarchal culture,
social
norms,
economic
marginalization
and
political
inequalities pose barriers that affect women and reduce their
access to employment opportunities and religious education
(Madimbo 2012). In contrast, Bahá’u’lláh has exalted the status
of women and allowed them to hold positions on both the local
and national governing councils though a democratic electoral
system. There are also women on its advisory arm, namely in
their roles as Counselors and Auxiliary Board Members.
Both the Bahá’í and Chinese temples are alike in the sense
that both have no pulpits where sermons by clerics can be given.
There is no “congregation” such as those found in churches or
mosques and no communal recitation of prayers. However,
while worshippers who come to a Bahá’í temple may have simply
come into the central hall to sit down quietly and reflect on
their own thoughts or on the world’s sacred scriptures, or on
special occasions to listen to the singing of voices on scriptural
passages, this is not the practice in Chinese temples. In visiting
a Chinese temple, there are many “tasks” that a believer is
supposed to perform, such as lighting the joss-sticks, the
offering of food and flowers, the burning of talismans, and the
worship and recitation of prayers and mantras at various altar
tables. There may also be the consulting of Chinese fortune
sticks and perhaps a queue to consult the temple medium.
Since there is a tendency of wholeness and a sense to look
towards the relativity of particulars within the universal
totality, one finds more tolerance than dogmatic determination
and ideological opposition where membership criteria are
concerned. There is, for example, no central figure as a point of
reverence; instead there is an array of gods, deities, ghosts and
demons which the believer may adopt according to his
individual preference. Hence the individual is relatively free to
believe what he or she chooses and is free to move from temple
to temple according to his or her needs. In contrast, the Bahá’í
community is predicated upon clear and detailed instructions
which exist within its sacred text. Bahá’ís define their members

Chinese Religions
as those who have accepted Bahá’u’lláh as the messenger of God
for this age, and this often requires that the member sign a
declaration card to the effect for administrative purposes,
including also the electoral roll of the annual election of their
governing bodies.
The fact that the Chinese religion is generally non-exclusive
and temples cannot bind worshippers to a particular temple nor
their exclusion of worship at other temples, has led it to lose
many of its members to other religions such as Christianity, in
recent years in China. This is aggravated by the fact that there is
little need to learn complex texts or rituals (or to relearn them
when switching to another temple). There is a tendency in the
Chinese religion to be ambiguous, ambivalent and indeterminate
in the name of social harmony. In contrast, the Bahá’í Faith (like
Christianity, Judaism and Islam), finds it important to organize
schools and classes for their believers and the children of their
believers as a means of familiarizing them with their religious
texts and scriptures. Hence, there are a lot more social capital at
stake in these religions, making it more difficult for adherents
to leave the religion. In contrast, in Chinese temple worship,
little or no attempt is made to entrench the adherent and his or
her offspring within a particular temple or religious ideology.
I believe that it is inevitable that Chinese religionists will
soon have to grapple seriously with problems of internal
governance as a result of the increased demand for greater
transparency brought about by mass education, modernization
and technological advances. To ensure their continued viability,
temple management will have to come to terms with managerial
challenges that have become obvious in our discussion, namely,
the challenge of unity in succession disputes; sectarian divisions
in various syncretic forms within the Chinese religion; the
limitations of patriarchal autocratic control and public
accountability; of issues relating to gender equality; and the
continued loss of significant numbers of youthful members to
“external religions” such as Christianity.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
REFERENCES
Ashiwa, Yodhiko amd Wank, David L. Eds. Making Religion. Making
the state. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2009.
Baumgarten, Albert, Assmann, J. and Stroumsa, G. Self, Soul and
Body in Religious Experience. Numen Book Series: Studies in the
History of Religions, Volume 78. Leiden: E.J. Brill & Co, 1998.
Billioud Sébastien. Confucian Revival and the Emergence of “Jiaohua
Organizations”: A Case Study of the Yidan Xuetang, Modern
China, 37:3 (2011): 286–314.
Brandtstädter, Susanne. Muddled modernities in ‘peasant’ China.”
CRESC Working Paper Series, No. 18. Centre for Research on
Socio-Cultural Change, University of Manchester, 2006.
Bunkenborg Mikke. Popular religion inside out: Gender and ritual
revival in a Hebei Township. China Information 26:3 (2012): 359–
376.
Chan, Selina and Lang, Graee S. Temple Construction and the Revival
of Popular Religion in Jinhua, China information. XXI:1, (2007):
43–69.
Chau, Adam. 迷信专业户？中国宗教实践中的家户型宗教服务供给者
(Chinese version of “Superstition Specialist Households?: The
Household Idiom in Chinese Religious Practices”;
<学海>2010年03期 Xuehai 3:1 (2010): 43-56.
Chau, Adam. Religion in Contemporary China: Revitalization and
Innovation. London and New York : Routledge, 2011.
Chew, Phyllis Ghim Lian. The Chinese religion and the Bahá’í Faith.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1993.
Chew, Phyllis Ghim Lian. Life, death and immortality: the Taoist
Religion in Singapore and the Bahá’í Faith. The Singapore Bahá’í
Studies Review 2:1 (1997): 69-90.
Cline, Erin M. Female Spirit Mediums and Religious Authority in
Contemporary Southeastern China, Modern China., 36:5 (2010):
520–555.
Davis, Edward. Society and the Supernatural in Song China.
Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2001.
Dean, Kenneth. “Further partings of the way: the Chinese state and
Daoist ritual traditions in contemporary China.” In Making
Religion, Making the State: The Politics of Religion in Modern

Chinese Religions
China, edited by Yoshiko Ashiwa and David L. Wank, Stanford,
CA: Stanford Univ. Press, 2009. Pp. 179–210.
Duara, Prasenjit. N. “Transnationalism in the Era of Nation-States:
China 1900-1945.” In Birgit Meyer and Peter Geschiere, (eds).
Globalization and Identity. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers. p. 51,
2003.
Fan, Linzhu. “The Cult of the Silkworm mother as a core of local
community religion in a north China village: field study in
Zhiwuying, Baoding, Hebei. China Quarterly. 174:1 (2003): 359–
72.
Fisher, Gareth. Religion as Repertoire: Resourcing the Past in a
Beijing Buddhist temple. Modern China, 38:3 (2012): 346–376.
Flower, Jonathan. “A road is made: roads, temples, and historical
memory in Ya’an county, Sichuan.” Journal of Asian Studies 63:3
(2004): 649–85.
Giuriato, Luisa. Combining autocracy and a majority voting: the
canonical succession rules of the Latin Church. In The political
economy of theocracy, edited by Ferrero, Mario and Ronald
Wintrobe. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2009.
Huang, Jianbo and Feng, Gang Yang, “The cross faces the
loudspeakers: a village church perseveres under state power.” State,
Market, and Religions in Chinese Societies by Fenggang Yang and
Joseph B. Tamney. Leiden: Brill (2005): 41–62.
Jing, Jun. The Temple of Memories: History, Power, and Morality in
a Chinese Village. Stanford, CA: Stanford Univ. Press, 1996.
Jones, Stephen.  In search of the Folk Daoists in North China. UK:
Ashgate Publishing, 2010. At
http://books.google.com.sg/?id=AA4Dl9aRS9gC
Jones, Stephen. “Revival in crisis: amateur ritual associations in
Hebei.” In Religion in Contemporary China: Revitalization and
Innovation by Adam Chau, London: Routledge. 2011, pp. 154-81.
Khursheed, Anjam. Science and religion in Chinese culture. The
Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review 5:1 (2000): 125-168.
Lagerway, John. China. A Religious State. Hong Kong: University of
Hong Kong Press. 2010.
Laliberte, Andre, Palmer, David A. and Wu Keping/ Religious
Philanthropy and Chinese Civil Society. In Palmer, David A, Shire,
Glenn and Wickers, Philip L. (eds.) Chinese Religious Life. Oxford:
OUP. 2-11.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Madimbo, Maggie/ Supportive leadership behaviour key to breaking
the glass ceiling in religious communities in Malawai. Journal of
Pan Asian studies, 5:2 (2012): 37-49.
Overmyer, Daniel L. Local religion in North China in the 20th
Century. The Structure and Organisation of community Rituals
and Beliefs. Leiden: Brill. 2009.
Reese, Thomas J. Inside the Vatican: the politics and organization of
the Catholic Church. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. 1996.
Yang, Mayfair M.H. “Putting global capitalism in its place: Economic
Hybridity, Bataille, and ritual expenditure.” Current
Anthropology, 41:4 (2000): 477–509.
Weber, Max. The sociology of religion, (trans. By Ephraim Fischoff),
MA: Beacon Press, 1993.

NOTES
1 This research was made possible by a grant from the Centre of Chinese
Studies, SIM University, Singapore, of which I am totally grateful.
2 Abdu’l Bahá, Star of the West, vol 13, 185.
3 Laliberte et al. 2011 recalls the story of Lin Dong, a spiritual healer who
had a vision of the 12th century deity Jigong (济公), a popular monk with
magical powers who has been worshipped for generations in Chinese
literature and legend. As a worshipper of Jigong, Lin Dong soon
discovered that he had inherited the healing powers of the deity. He
managed to cure many and his grateful clients contributed money which he
used to help the poor.
4 The pixiu (貔貅) is a guardian animal standing for fair play and right while
the Qilin (麒麟) is the Chinese unicorn. Other mythological creatures
which decorate temple structures are the dragon and the phoenix.
5 This deity is traced to one Guo Zhong fun, born to a poor family in 923 CE
in Shishan, Na’an, Fujian. Guangze Zunwang’s filial piety and ability to do
miraculous deeds as a child led to his deification after his death at the
tender age of 16.
6 I have seen temples with altars with about 100 tablets belonging to about
10 families.
7 In Xian city, I was able to visit and interview temple personages in Ba Xian
Au (八仙庵)

Chinese Religions

8 It was founded in 1953 at the urging of followers of Taixu,(1890-1947)
from the Linji school of Chan Buddhism in Xiao Jiǔhuá Temple
(小九華寺/小九华寺) in Suzhou.
9 This is not to say that my other categories of temple do not attract tourists.
Indeed, the Shaolin temple, the Lingyin Temple in Puto and the Buddhist
temple Nanputuo and Wudan, Qinchengshan on the Daoist side; as well as
some large Mazu committee temples in Fujian also attract tourism
10 See http://baike.baidu.com/view/2427500.htm#2.
11 See the following articles on tourist temples which are listed on the
Chinese stock exchange:
http://360doc.com/content/12/0928/13/8209053_238616381.shtml and
http://mzb.com.cn/zgmzb/html/2012-08/14/content_87234.htm
12 Some examples are The Red Swastika Society (世界红卍字会),
founded in China in 1922, as the philanthropic branch of the Daode she
((道德社)) or the Daoyuan Not legally registered in China, it is however
thriving in the diasporic communities of Hong Kong, Taiwan and
Singapore.
13 Their legality may be due to their more subdued call of a “cultural
renaissance” rather than that of “salvation for the world”.
14 In brief, the sub-sects are variations on the same theme and one way to
enhance their distinctiveness from one another is the use of different
names to refer to the supreme mother deity. For example, in the T’ung-
shan She, it is referred to as the “Venerable Mother of Limitless Heaven”
(Wuji Laomu), in the Tz’u-hui Tang as the “Golden Mother of the Jasper
Pool” (Yao-ch’ih Chin-mu), and as the “Unborn Sacred Mother” (Wusheng
Shengmu) (cf. Palmer: 2011).
15 Yiguan Dao was founded in 1930 by Chang T’ien-jn (1889-1947) in
Shantung. It incorporates elements not just from Confucianism, Daosim
and Buddhism but also Christianity and Islam. Currently, it is banned in
China but this has not kept it from practicing through different names such
as The Confucus-Mencius Society, The Morality Society, etc. They have
also been called the Zhenli Tiandao (真理天道, The True Celestial Tao).
16 Even more tightly knit Christian communities such as the Mormons found
themselves embroiled in a succession dispute which resulted in several
distinct branches of the congregation after the passing of their founder-
prophet Joseph smith in 1844.
17 See http://www.chinabuddhism.com.cn/ (the Buddhist Association of
China) and http://www.taoist.org.cn/webfront/webfront_frontPage.cgi
(Chinese Taoist Association)

Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend
Reflection on Bahá’í Scholarship as a Journey in the
Valley of Search
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction
In this paper the attempt is made to shed some light at Bahá’í
Scholarship from the First Valley of the Seven Valleys of
Bahá’u’lláh, the Valley of Search. This Valley ends with the
words that were chosen as title for this paper:
From the Valley of Search:
And if, by the help of God, he findeth on this journey a
trace of the traceless Friend, and inhaleth the fragrance
of the long-lost Joseph from the heavenly messenger, he
shall straightway step into THE VALLEY OF LOVE and
be dissolved in the fire of love. (SVFV 7)1
The combination of finding a “trace” of a “traceless friend”
indicates the mysteriousness and complexity of this task, and
introduces us into the mystical realm where words are used to
describe what is impossible to define, and what can only be
described in opposing concepts, which indicate an integral
reality and unity behind these words. The friend is found when
his fragrance is inhaled, when a trace is found and the finding is
a process which never ends, a journey which cannot be
concluded in a rational and factual way. It can only be a
nearness that is ephemeral like a fragrance, yet it is real and even

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
more real than physical reality. It is described as finding a trace
of somebody who does not leave a trace, who is traceless. It can
easily be seen by this ending of the Valley of Search that we will
have to be concerned to remain in the ambience of this mystical
description when carefully finding one of the many possible
interpretations and then translating these mystical concepts into
common language.
Through this conundrum with no solution, in this question
with no answer, a mystery is expressed that leads to a truth that
transcends logic and reason. Yet, it is not unreasonable, neither
is it illogical, actually, it is more and deeper and needs to be
experienced, leading to a totally new vision of reality. The
reflections presented here are certainly not comprehensive
because they are exceedingly limited for two reasons, one is that
the Words of Manifestations are inexhaustible, and the other is
that these thoughts are subjective and only represent what this
writer has experienced and found in an attentive reading of this
Tablet. Another limitation of this paper is the fact that only
selected passages of this text can be deeply reflected upon and
other sentences will be commented on with less depth in order
to stay within the frame of this investigation.
The introductory section of the Seven Valleys closes with the
following words, indicating that the purpose of this Book is
“that every man may thereby win his way to the summit of
realities, until none shall contemplate anything whatsoever but
that he shall see God therein.” (SVFV 1)2
Two considerations stand out here that will be guiding ideas
for this paper. One is the fact that this Tablet is written so that
every man may thereby win his way to the summit of reality. In
other words, this Tablet will open for everybody a new and
higher way to understand reality. The other thought is equally
important namely that this reality is such that it is revealing
God, so that God can be seen therein. Consequently, it should
not be surprising that the reflections presented in this paper are

The Traceless Friend
not necessarily consonant with modern ideas of scholarship;
rather, they will present a new understanding of it.
This new understanding was presented in a letter about Bahá’í
Scholarship, written on behalf of the Bahá’í Universal House of
Justice, October 7, 1980, presented here in three parts:
The
combination
of
absolute
loyalty
to
the
Manifestation of God and His Teachings, with the
searching and intelligent study of the Teachings and
history of the Faith which those Teachings themselves
enjoin, is a particular strength of this Dispensation.
This searching after truth in the Teachings of the Faith is the
first of the obligations of a Bahá’í scholar and it is combined
with absolute loyalty to the Manifestation of God. This is
distinguished from the theology of previous dispensations
where extremes of blind literality are opposed by an extreme
position of doubts.
In past Dispensations the believers have tended to divide
into two mutually antagonistic groups: those who held
blindly to the letter of the Revelation, and those who
questioned and doubted everything. Like all extremes,
both these can lead into error.
What most distinguishes the Bahá’í scholar from other
theologians is the “unfettered search after truth,” which has to
be executed with intelligence and understanding, it has to admit
the possibility of error and consequently needs to be marked by
maturity and forbearance. Disunity and discord must be
avoided by a humble understanding of the limited ability of the
scholar. The letter of the Universal House of Justice continues
in quoting Shoghi Effendi.
The beloved Guardian has written that “The Bahá’í Faith
... enjoins upon its followers the primary duty of an
unfettered search after truth...”. Bahá’ís are called upon

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
to follow the Faith with intelligence and understanding.
Inevitably believers will commit errors as they strive to
rise to this degree of maturity, and this calls for
forbearance and humility on the part of all concerned,
so that such matters do not cause disunity or discord
among the friends.3
This statement raises the question how can the “unfettered
search after truth” be combined with “absolute loyalty to the
Manifestation of God.” This is a crucial question that will be
dealt with throughout this paper. This is a question that all
Bahá’í scholars have to face, the question if the search for
unfettered truth must lead towards disloyalty to the
Administrative Order of the Faith. A relative high number of
Bahá’í scholars were unable to solve this problem and came to
the tragic conclusion to have to leave the Faith; some even
became outspoken enemies of the Faith. Bahá’u’lláh’s words in
the Valley of Search are expected to give us the answer to this
question, which deals with the philosophical, cultural and
religious conviction of the seeker, and how that relates to the
possibility of an unfettered search after truth.
How this unfettered search can be executed without conflict
and in loyalty to the Manifestation will be answered briefly here
and then explained at length. The answer is in the statement of
the question, even an unfettered search depends on the
preconditions and premises of the search. In simple words, if I
search in a place where the item to be found is not, I cannot
find it. In any search, in any travel, we must be at the right
point of departure, in order to go where we wish to go. As will
be explained below it is the issue of the hermeneutic circle,
every question, and every search starts with a foreknowledge
that determines its outcome. For example, if my understanding
of the world is strictly materialistic, no matter how much I
search I will never find God in this physical world, especially if I
make the assumption that what cannot be placed in space and
time and be counted, does not exist. In that case, any concept

The Traceless Friend
of transcendence, of the spiritual or of God is excluded and
cannot be found.
The following topics will be dealt with in this reflection on
the Valley of Search. Throughout these investigations the
question of unfettered search for truth versus loyalty to the
faith will be constantly kept in mind and will form the
background of these reflections.
1. Preconditions of search
2. Independent Investigation and the role of the heart,
culture and tradition
3. How to deal with distractions
4. The standard of Majnún, seek her everywhere
5. The exclusivity of search and sacrificing everything for it
6. Seeking the truth in every country, in every mind and in
every soul
This will lead the seeker into the next valley, the Valley of
Love on the journey to find a Trace of the Traceless Friend. It is
important that the scholar realizes that it is only a trace of the
truth that he is able to communicate to others, and that makes
his teaching valuable. On the other hand, this trace is the truth
— even though it is not the absolute truth — it is only the truth
that is available today, the truth that can be found in the
investigation of the scholar.
Searching for the trace of somebody who leaves no trace, i.e.,
is traceless, is certainly testing the patience of any scholar which
is indicated in the next paragraph where it is said; that the steed
of this Valley is patience.
Even if he searches a hundred thousand years in patience and
devotion, he never will reach the final truth, which can be
compared with the description of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
as a limitless ocean. The scholar needs to ever be aware in

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
humility that he remains at the shores of this ocean; he can only
step into it.
When considering that the Valley of Search is the first valley
the wayfarer must pass to reach his goal, we must understand
that the study of the Writings, that scholarship is only the first
of the Seven Valleys, the first stride; a believer has to make in
his path. Contrary to all other previous religions, the Bahá’í
scholar is, therefore, not in a privileged position, he is not
superior to any other believer. He is the one who starts on the
first level in the Path of God like anybody else. He might be
specialized and therefore especially able to find things others
might miss. On the other hand he should never forget that it is
not scholarship or human learning, but purity of the heart,
which is needed to understand the Revelation, as Bahá’u’lláh has
stated.
The understanding of His words and the comprehension
of the utterances of the Birds of Heaven are in no wise
dependent upon human learning. They depend solely
upon purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of
spirit. This is evidenced by those who, today, though
without a single letter of the accepted standards of
learning, are occupying the loftiest seats of knowledge;
and the garden of their hearts is adorned, through the
showers of divine grace, with the roses of wisdom and
the tulips of understanding. Well is it with the sincere in
heart for their share of the light of a mighty Day! (KI 210)
Therefore, the scholar will never be the Priest or Mulláh like
in the Islamic community or the Theologian like in Christianity,
who stands above the regular believers because of his knowledge
and understanding of the revelation. While doing more in this
area of search than most people, as far as his scholarship is
concerned, he is studying only in the first Valley and needs to
progress personally through all the Seven Valleys. Otherwise his
research might only be touching the surface. Keeping up the
search but not proceeding through all the valleys could be

The Traceless Friend
compared to the tinkling cymbal of St. Paul (1 Cor. 13; 1-3), who
stresses the need for charity, just like here, after the valley of
Search follows the Valley of Love.
Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels,
and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or
a tinkling cymbal.
And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand
all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all
faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not
charity, I am nothing.
And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and
though I give my body to be burned, and have not
charity, it profiteth me nothing.
Therefore, according to Bahá’u’lláh, after the Valley of
Search the wayfarer must pass the Valley of Love in order to
come to the Valley of Knowledge and only after that will he
reach the Valley of Unity with the Friend. This process is an
essential feature of the mystic path, which any seeker and any
scholar must pursue; all these elements need to be considered
when trying to reflect on any part of the Seven Valleys.
Additionally, this process of seven steps should not be
understood as a time bound process; it is an internal and
spiritual process as Bahá’u’lláh stated at the end of the Seven
Valleys, where he said:
These journeys have no visible ending in the world of
time,
but
the
severed
wayfarer
—
if
invisible
confirmation descend upon him and the Guardian of the
Cause assist him — may cross these seven stages in seven
steps, nay rather in seven breaths, nay rather in a single
breath, if God will and desire it. And this is of “His
grace on such of His servants as He pleaseth.”4 (SVFV 41)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Bahá’u’lláh often describes the truth in its diversity because
of the limitation of men, but when the wayfarer passes the
world of denial he can reach the world of Unity and Diversity,
the world of Limitation and Detachment as it is stated in the
Book of Certitude:
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and
advance into the ocean of acceptance, so that we may
perceive, with an eye purged from all conflicting
elements, the worlds of unity and diversity, of variation
and oneness, of limitation and detachment, and wing our
flight unto the highest and innermost sanctuary of the
inner meaning of the Word of God. (KI 60)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has interpreted this principle when He talked
about the way of understanding the limited from the unlimited,
or the lower level of reality from the higher.
Now as to the infinite Power that knoweth no
limitations; limitation itself proveth the existence of the
unlimited, for the limited is known through the
unlimited, just as weakness itself proveth the existence
of power, ignorance the existence of knowledge, poverty
the existence of wealth. Without wealth there would be
no poverty, without knowledge no ignorance, without
light no darkness. Darkness itself is a proof of the
existence of light for darkness is the absence of light.
(TAF 20)
Without spiritual Unity there could not be Diversity, or to
say it philosophically, without the Whole there could not be any
Parts. In the same way it can be stated that without parts there
would not be any whole. Obviously, in this opposition the polar
concepts constitute each other. Considering the Integral Whole
(das “Integrale Ganze” in German5), one could say that unity in
diversity is just the other side of the same coin. The
consequences of this principle of Unity in Diversity, as

The Traceless Friend
mentioned
here,
towards
understanding
philosophy
and
especially ontology cannot be pursued further here, but is
certainly of great importance.
This consideration is extremely important, because every
other kind of research which uses a methodology based on a
materialistic and reductionistic understanding of reality will not
find anything that is described in this tablet and is, therefore,
not only useless but destined to fail. A scholar may use the
methodology of material research in this area, because he is
trained and educated that way, and he might not even be
conscious of this. Often this will lead to consequences that are
destructive and will unquestioningly come to results that
contradict what is expressed in this Tablet. Therefore, the
premises and presuppositions of any research need to be kept in
mind and need to be further explored below.
Prerequisites of Search
In the first verse of this Valley of Search, Bahá’u’lláh
presents the following preconditions required of the wayfarer
who starts his search. The seeker must be aware of the
following:
o He must use the steed of patience
o He needs to avoid downheartedness and faltering
o He should be strengthened by Service
o He will need to go from heedlessness to the realm of
being
o He should not be held back by any bond
o He must not be deterred by counsel
In the beginning of the mystical writings of the Valleys of
Search, Bahá’u’lláh begins with this remarkable statement giving
the reader a trace of what to expect.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
From the Valley of Search:
The steed of this Valley is patience; without patience the
wayfarer on this journey will reach nowhere and attain
no goal.
Patience is required for this enterprise of scholarship, of
searching; patience is the vehicle, the steed and mount, which
carries the wayfarer to his goal. It is interesting that patience
and forbearance are here mentioned as accelerating the search,
like the use of a horse will speed up any travel. Yet, patience is
the opposite of impatient zeal and eagerness, which are
seemingly
the
forces
promoting
speed.
This
seeming
contradiction, that a patient approach will speed up the travel
more than the speediest travel leads us patiently to the goal. On
the other hand, extreme inpatient behavior, will never lead
anywhere.
Any eager and hasty attempt to reach his goal is excluded
here. The zeal for scientific success and the anxious effort that
creates competition among scholars must be avoided, as it
would reach nowhere and attain no goal. This could be
compared with the Freudian statement that warns the analyst
not to be eager in striving for cure, since such “therapeutic
zeal” does not lead to a successful therapy. It is, rather,
counterproductive. The patience needed here is further
explained in the next sentence from the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, in His
tablets and the Hidden Words:
He must never seek to exalt himself above any one, must
wash away from the tablet of his heart every trace of
pride and vain-glory, must cling unto patience and
resignation, observe silence and refrain from idle talk.
(KI 193)
It behoveth whosoever hath set his face towards the
Most Sublime Horizon to cleave tenaciously unto the

The Traceless Friend
cord of patience, and to put his reliance in God, the
Help in Peril, the Unconstrained. (TB 212)6
48. O SON OF MAN!
For everything there is a sign. The sign of love is
fortitude under My decree and patience under My trials.
(HW)
From the Valley of Search:
Nor should he ever be downhearted; if he strive for a
hundred thousand years and yet fail to behold the beauty
of the Friend, he should not falter.
It could easily be seen that such an attitude is making a Bahá’í
scholar unique in modern academic circles, where success is
related to production and is judged by the prevailing
philosophical and political prejudices, so that true and
unfettered search is most of the time unacceptable and often
censured, when it contradicts accepted standards. When
patience is required not only as a precondition to search but
also as the carrying supposition of the unfettered search of the
scholar, the opposite condition becomes not only ineffective,
but is most of the time an active hindrance, leading to impatience
and to a superficial acceptance of something as truth, which is
not properly and patiently researched. Consequently, any
research without this steed of patience is suspect, is unscientific
and leads nowhere, or most of the time this “nowhere” is error
and falsity, is half-truth and delusion of truth.
Another quality, this patience gives the scholar, is the fact
that he needs to avoid being downhearted, being depressed and
giving up. As long as he rides his steed of patience he can go on
forever with his search and never give up, because the traces of
traceless friend will become manifest at the right time. This
attitude required by Bahá’u’lláh for the search is based on trust,
is based on the certitude that the search is not dependent on the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
marginal ability of the researcher, but is supported and guided
by the beauty of the Friend, Who has promised guidance on the
path the scholarly pursuit is based on.
What this means in the practice of research is a trust in the
divine providence, that the right ideas, the proper sources and
the often accidental circumstances of researching will be guided
and will neither depend on the ingenuity of the scholar nor on
his effort and eagerness. What is required most of all is the
ability to accept and listen to the sources and to the people and
often to seemingly accidental happenings that inspire the
student of wisdom.
Approaching scholarship when being carried along by
patience is giving access and openness to the truth to appear,
enables the student to see and notice the truth and allows him to
see with the new eye, the new ear. The message he hears from the
Word of God, the truth he sees in the world of Creations will
penetrate into his new heart and then become conscious in his
mind, giving him a new mind, a new ability to express the truth
he has seen and heard.
Then will the manifold favors and outpouring grace of
the holy and everlasting Spirit confer such new life upon
the seeker that he will find himself endowed with a new
eye, a new ear, a new heart, and a new mind.
That allows him to see the universe, nature and science in a new
light and brings certitude of a new kind and station.
He will contemplate the manifest signs of the universe,
and will penetrate the hidden mysteries of the soul.
Gazing with the eye of God, he will perceive within every
atom a door that leadeth him to the stations of absolute
certitude. He will discover in all things the mysteries of
Divine Revelation, and the evidences of an everlasting
Manifestation. (GWB 267)

The Traceless Friend
Another question is the length of this search and when the
goal is reached. What could be the meaning of the statement of
Bahá’u’lláh, when He wrote “if he strive for a hundred thousand
years and yet fail.” What does Bahá’u’lláh mean when talking
about 100,000 years of searching, yet failing?
It is clear that such a number is more than a hyperbole for a
long search. Even saying for hundred years would be an
exaggeration for what any scholar possibly could do, hundred
thousand years are not simply an exaggeration, this number
must be indicating something different. What is meant here? Is
it talking about a search for eternity? Is it the progress of
humanity and not the individual researcher? All of these
interpretations and many others are possible, this writer prefers
another one. Normally, in any material search we go from
searching to finding and then having, possessing whatever we
were searching for. Even in our life when we have a life-long
search for example for a profession, for a spouse and other
serious goals, we hopefully end up with finding what we looked
for, with achieving our goals at work or finding a spouse we can
love and behold.
Obviously, in the search proposed in the Seven Valleys there
is no clear definable and reachable goal present. One reason is
obvious, what we search for is beyond reaching, the Beauty of
the Friend, the path to God does not have an end, is
inexhaustible and in some ways unknown and unreachable.
What is the solution to this hundred thousand year of
searching, which is explained as failing and not coming to an
end? One answer that comes to mind is this: the searching is not
a searching for a goal that would end the search, but that the
search itself is the goal and, therefore, it cannot end; or in other
words, the end is in the search and we are not expected to have a
reachable goal, or the goal is so far away, even beyond any reach
that we never can attain it and yet, searching for it is all what
we must and can do.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
This vision of an endless yet meaningful search will give the
Bahá’í scholar a different approach to his final quest and all the
studies and research efforts are then seen from a higher point of
view. They become relative to the real search and the same
happens to all findings the scholar might achieve; they will never
become the source of pride and feeling of superiority over any
fellow searcher, even of the non-scholarly type. When the final
goal of search is the unknown, the infinite, or absolute, all of
which is beyond reach, then the relative differences between
searchers become minimal and must be neglected, because they
make no difference in the search effort.
Other conditions for the true seeker are added in the first
paragraph in the beginning of the valley of search. The scholar
who searches for truth needs to do this in the way of service and
he must stay away from heedlessness. Additionally, she needs to
be independent and not held to anyone and should not be
influenced by critical and bad counsel.
From the Valley of Search:
In their search, they have stoutly girded up the loins of
service... (SVFV 3)
Here another thought is introduced into the process of
search that is the value of service in the relation to the search.
As stated before, usually searching ends in finding and then in
sharing the findings with others, which is a service and the
function of this process is what distinguishes the scholar. This
sharing is the service the scholar provides. What about a search
that does not have a determined finding, a search that is
ongoing and never ending? How to share what is not yet or not
definitely found? It appears that such a sharing requires humility
because there is no pride in finding, there is only service in
continuing searching and sharing and communicating this kind
of searching to others.

The Traceless Friend
What the scholar finds is only a new step forward in
understanding; there is no absolute truth to be found and what
is found is relative in relation of further searching and finding.
With this attitude the scholar will communicate this ongoing
searching to the pupil and will consequently elevate the pupil to
the level of a fellow searcher, and the unity of searching is the
goal, not the finding. Actually this unity of all fellow searchers
requires that the scholar listens to everybody, as it is stated later
on in this Valley of Search so eloquently.
The service of the scholar is not in teaching the uneducated,
the nonprofessional, but in sharing this new form of search
which elevates every student of the Writings into the state of a
fellow searcher. In this way searching and scholarship becomes
consultation, consultation with every fellow searcher and the
true consultation consists in listening and accepting any
opinion, without prejudice, especially not the prejudice of the
learned towards the uneducated. This consideration is preparing
us to understand what is said later about where to search and
where to find.
From the Valley of Search:
In the next sentence the wayfarers
… seek at every moment to journey from the plane of
heedlessness into the realm of being. No bond shall hold
them back, and no counsel shall deter them. (SVFV 4)
It is remarkable that Bahá’u’lláh opposes the plane of
heedlessness with the realm of being. Heedlessness is lack of
care and negligence; both are not only moral concepts but
attitudes that affect intellectual honesty and rational integrity.
The search is not an “either/or”; it is a process, a journey, which
everyone has to go through. We all are wayfarers in this Valley
of Search that leads us from heedlessness, from carelessness and
negligence into the realm of being, which is the realm of truth
and verity, the realm of actuality and reality.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Any objective finding, knowing and recognizing what is, is a
process, a vision; it is never a final position that can be reached,
owned and defended. Contrary to that, it consists in the
unification of polar opposites, which can only happen in the
process of living and searching; therefore, Bahá’u’lláh warns us
to not accept any bond and limit set from the outside and tells
us to be independent in regards of counsel. In other words, we
need to follow our own understanding, our own knowledge and
vision, as is expressed in the Hidden Word about justice. As a
matter of fact, this consideration will be repeated later on,
indicating the importance of this aspect, not only in regards to
the search for truth, but also about the search for justice, which
is praised by Bahá’u’lláh as a gift to mankind. We always need
to have before our eyes the following verse.
2. O SON OF SPIRIT!
The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice; turn
not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and neglect it
not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see
with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of others,
and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not through
the knowledge of thy neighbor. Ponder this in thy heart;
how it behooveth thee to be. Verily justice is My gift to
thee and the sign of My loving-kindness. Set it then
before thine eyes. (HW Ar. 2)
From Carelessness to Reality
Heedlessness is here opposed to reality, when using the
equivalent word carelessness for heedlessness, we realize what is
required. It is the care for ourselves and for “the other”,
because we cannot be a “self” if we do not understand ourselves
with the other, if we are not part of and participant in the
world of the other, in humankind. Developmentally, in the
child, the self is developed in the relationship to the other, to
the mother in the beginning and all other humans in the end. In

The Traceless Friend
other words, we become a self when we learn to relate to
another, and the self is always consisting in this relationship.
Heedlessness and carelessness interrupt this relationship and
therefore, it interrupts the self in understanding him/herself,
the other and all other things. It is in this understanding that
Heidegger talks about “Sorge” or care as a fundamental concept
of ontology (“Dasein”), as comprehending self and others.
Ferdinand Ebner7 has described two ways of knowing, the
personal and substantial and has indicated that ignoring the ‘I —
Thou’ relationship of personally knowing the other, we lose
ourselves and end in what he calls self-isolation (Ich-
Einsamkeit), i.e. actually losing ourselves. This carelessness
cannot find reality as it really is and ends up in substantial
knowing, like knowing things and misses the value and meaning
of the person, of oneself and of others. Carelessness leads to the
loss of virtue, the loss of purpose in life and the loss of reality.
Be not careless of the virtues with which ye have been
endowed, neither be neglectful of your high destiny.
(GWB 196)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá about the people of Bahá points out what this
care can mean for the people of Bahá’í, when He stated:
And that by their freedom from enslavement, their
knowledge, their self-control, they shall be first among
the pure, the free and the wise. (SWAB 150)
Concluding these preconditions of search, the seeker must be
aware of the following: This process of study, as it is laid out in
front of the seeker traveling on the steed of patience, being a
servant and caring will be examined further in the following
chapters in an attempt of a reflection on the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh. These findings, which are here espoused in all
humility, are given to the reader, and will have to be critiqued,
corrected and extended in the sense of true consultation.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Independent Investigation and the role of the heart,
culture and tradition
With the next Verse Bahá’u’lláh tells us how to search by
describing
what
is
required
to
have
an
independent
investigation, and interestingly he concentrates his focus upon
the heart and not the mind.
From the Valley of Search:
It is incumbent on these servants that they cleanse the
heart — which is the wellspring of divine treasures —
from every marking, and that they turn away from
imitation, which is following the traces of their
forefathers and sires, and shut the door of friendliness
and enmity upon all the people of the earth. (SVFV 4)
How do we understand this required cleansing of the heart?
In many places Bahá’u’lláh speaks about “… the human heart,
which is the recipient of the light of God and the seat of the
revelation of the All-Merciful ...” (GWB 186). The relative new
science of neurocardiology can give us some indication that
even from a scientific point of view the heart is much more
than a mechanical pump, but is also a neurological center that
can function independently from the brain, as is known in heart
transplants. In a previous paper of this writer the role of the
heart was described8, here only some relevant points will be
mentioned. According to neurocardiology
Recent work in the relatively new field of neuro-
cardiology has firmly reestablished that the heart is a
sensory organ and a sophisticated information encoding
and processing center. Its circuitry enables it to learn,
remember and make functional decisions independent of
the cranial brain.9

The Traceless Friend
There are several reports that after a heart transplant many
basic preferences of the patient change.10 While not researched
because of patient confidentiality these reports need to be
taken seriously and it must be assumed that many more of what
usually is called unconscious is placed in the heart and not in the
brain. Whatever is known by the heart becomes conscious in the
brain as knowledge, which is understood as certainty. This
certitude distinguishes it from thought or opinion. Bahá’u’lláh
then gives us a warning that the heart may be affected by
markings, by some stain, in other words not be pure.
Consequently, He redirects the seeker to “turn away imitation,
which is following the traces of their forefathers and sires.”
From this statement we can understand that the marking, which
affects the purity of the heart, might be this imitation, this
following in the traditional ways of thinking.
My personal understanding of this sentence is as follows.
Following the traces of our intellectual ancestors or forefathers,
or thinking in traditional ways, means being restricted by their
way of thinking and unable to comprehend anything new. When
Bahá’u’lláh talks here about fathers and sires, we need to take
this at first in a concrete and practical way: everybody learns to
talk and think from his parents. Everybody grows up in a
specific cultural environment, first the environment of his
family, then of his school and only much later the cultural
environment of his time.
In the beginning the little child has no choice, but beginning
with the teen years, the youth starts selecting and eventually will
find his own understanding. We can say he is able to choose his
own intellectual fathers and follows them in his thinking. But he
never will totally shed the influence of his childhood.
Consequently, we can take this turning away from imitations in
a wider sense and include in it the whole cultural and
philosophical environment of any seeker into this consideration.
That raises another question for the scholar. Since all
thinking and searching happens in the context of the accepted

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
culture, how can we not think in the way of our forefathers?
Can we ever totally avoid the thinking style, the cultural ideas
and concepts that we have acquired throughout life? The word
used for this change in this translation is “turn away”, which is
equivalent with the word convert, which has the Latin root of
turning as well. So when we turn away from this imitation,
when we become converts to a new vision, what happens to the
traditional thinking? What do we have to do, how do we
convert to a new way of thinking? And how do we learn this
new way of thinking that is required here?
An indication of what to do is in the next sentence, where
Bahá’u’lláh requires us to “shut the door of friendliness and
enmity upon all the people of the earth.” Avoiding friendliness
and enmity, or love and hate for all people means, if nothing
else, to not be influenced by any feelings, positive or negative
towards people and their ideas and systems of though.
We need to avoid a seemingly contradiction in the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh. When He states here that we need to shut the
door to friendliness and enmity He obviously means something
different than when He said. Consort with all men, O people of
Bahá, in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship. (GWB 288) The
answer is, that the demonstration of a spirit of friendliness is
mentioned when the talk is about how we should behave
towards individual people we meet, there friendliness is of
utmost importance. The other passage, about shutting the door
to friendliness and enmity has to understood according to this
statement
We have, moreover, commanded you to cleanse your
hearts from every trace of the love or hate of the
peoples of the world, lest aught should divert you from
one course or impel you towards another. (SLH 1)
Here it is meant the love or hate, the emotional involvement,
which leads us to accept one or the other side of an argument
and makes us prefer one or the other side of an opposing

The Traceless Friend
understanding. In other words, we need to be free from
emotional attachment to certain ideas that are held by the
peoples of the world.
The mind needs not only to be free of any traditional
conventions and cultural influences, but the heart as well needs
to be free, without stain and not influenced by feelings of love
or hate towards anybody. One could state that this is an
intellectual and emotional stance of independence and
objectivity that is very difficult to achieve. This can only be
reached in a tangential process, in slowly coming closer and
closer to this ideal situation.
Additionally, we need to realize that this is a negative
requirement. It is, so to speak, a detachment (“de-tachment”)
from something negative, which requires necessarily a new
attachment (“ad-tachment”) to something, i.e. to something
positive and to a new way of thinking that is not yet mentioned
in this section, but is a requirement for the true seeker. It does
give a better understanding to the above mentioned fact that
patience needs to be the steed of this travel, from heedlessness
to the realm of being. Being detached we need to attach
ourselves to the Beloved, the fundamentals of His Faith and
then we can proclaim the new message, the Word of the
Manifestation as it is said here:
So should be every one that claimeth to be a lover of the
one true God. It behoveth him to fix his gaze upon the
fundamentals of His Faith, and to labor diligently for its
propagation. Wholly for the sake of God he should
proclaim His Message, and with that same spirit accept
whatever response his words may evoke in his hearer. He
who shall accept and believe, shall receive his reward;
and he who shall turn away, shall receive none other than
his own punishment. (GWB 339)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The spirit of this service of teaching is indicated in the next
statement of Bahá’u’lláh, we have to be unrestrained and free
from any precondition when searching and teaching the faith.
Be unrestrained as the wind, while carrying the Message
of Him Who hath caused the Dawn of Divine Guidance
to break. Consider, how the wind, faithful to that which
God hath ordained, bloweth upon all the regions of the
earth, be they inhabited or desolate. Neither the sight of
desolation, nor the evidences of prosperity, can either
pain or please it. It bloweth in every direction, as bidden
by its Creator. (GWB 339)
The question of basic assumptions in any scientific
endeavor
The required loyalty to the Revelation of the Manifestation
of God becomes for the Bahá’í scholar an important question.
Logically, there should not be any difference in having basic
assumption of different kind. For example, if I take the
assumption of Neo-Darwinism and regard the writings of
Darwin as the truth of evolution, or if I take the assumption of
the Progressive Movement based on Marxism, or the assumption
of Reductionism or the basic assumptions of any other
ideology, why would it be less scientific to have assumptions
that originate in a religious area, such as Christian, Islamic or
Bahá’í Revelation, or basic ideas of Buddhism or Hinduism?
Why is it regarded as less scientific to believe in the Bible, than
to believe in the Writings of Marx or Darwin? In this case one
could say that the Bible was written 2000 years ago, so there was
scientific progress that abolished the biblical truth.
Obviously, this argument does not hold true when
considering the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith, especially since
Marx and Darwin, for example, were contemporaries to
Bahá’u’lláh and the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi
were written later. What other arguments can the scientific

The Traceless Friend
community bring to show that religious assumptions are
unscientific? Is it the fact that religious writers did not use the
scientific method?
Shoghi Effendi has claimed that Bahá’ís believe that their
Revelation is scientific in its method, and this claim would have
to be disproven before scientists could be justified to call the
Bahá’í Writings unscientific:
The Revelation proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh, His followers
believe, is divine in origin, all embracing in scope, broad
in its outlook, scientific in its method, humanitarian in
its principles and dynamic in the influence it exerts on
the hearts and minds of men.11
This argument would lead us into the question about the
scientific method, considering that Shoghi Effendi did study in
Oxford and was familiar with this method and must have known
what this statement implied.
Obviously,
neither
Bahá’u’lláh
nor
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had
academic schooling but does that mean they were necessary
uneducated and did not understand what they wrote? This would
have to be proven first, before their Writings can be dismissed
as unscientific. All of these issues need to be discussed first, but
an off-handed refusal to accept assumptions because they are
based on religion, is certainly unscientific, especially because
science spends very little effort answering these questions for
their respective fields. Moreover, most scientists take their
basic assumptions for granted and argue from them, but never
proof them.
This discussion raises the philosophical question, which is as
old as the logic of Aristotle: how to proof the first premise in a
deductive series of conclusions. Science cannot solve this
problem. It is rather a question of the philosophy of science,
but not a question of any particular science.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
There are other first assumptions that cannot be proven by
the scientific method. Issues like this: “Why is there something
and not rather nothing?” or “Does reality exist?” or “What is
real and what is not real?” are not scientific questions but
belong into the philosophical area of discourse, where the
scientific method is not applicable.
For example, the Darwinist explanation of evolution by
accidental mutations and the survival of the fittest is one
explanation, and is held as truth, especially if other explanations
are excluded beforehand, such as a final goal of evolution or
any kind of pre-design. Here the assumption is made that only
mechanistic and material causes are existing in reality, and that
everything can be reduced to its most common and simplest
denominator. Typically, modern science assumes that reality is
such that all can be explained by efficient causality and that
there is no meaning and no goal-directed activity existing in
reality; often science assumes, as well, that free will, value and
spiritual meaning are all false and unscientific concepts. Under
these assumptions, Darwinism is the only explanation for the
evolution of the finches in the Galapagos, and in an unscientific
and totally unproven generalization, these finches are taken as
the example that has to be followed by everything in this world,
including humanity. Darwinists declare this as a scientifically
proven truth for all evolution in this world. This quick step
from the Galapagos finches to humanity and eventually to God
is neither scientific, nor logical, or rational and certainly has a
motivation that is outside of the consideration of these
scientists, but must be strong enough to let them overlook their
irrationality.
On the other hand, these questions need to be answered
before a scientific deduction can be made or any scientific
hypothesis can be presented to the experiment. Usually, these
questions are assumed, are accepted as common sense, and
rarely are they questioned. So why are religious assumptions
questioned, if common sense assumptions are accepted without
questions? At least in religious assumptions we have an author

The Traceless Friend
and have a documented history, common sense assumptions are
taken for granted without that knowledge, but the whole system
of science is based on them and only philosophers are interested
in this issue.
If a Bahá’í scholar is confronted with this issue, he first must
solve it for himself. When these issues come up in a discussion
with other scientists, the basic issue needs to be discussed. It is
unfortunately common, that most academics would not be
ready for such a discussion and would refuse to accept anything
that does not fit their preferred ideology. Then this ideology
needs to be discussed first, and this becomes tedious. So for all
practical purposes, these issues cannot be discussed in most
academic circles.
Consequently, the Bahá’í scholar must avoid, if possible, to
enter a discussion that would be a useless argument and he/she
has to approach these issue in other ways. One way would be to
follow the scientific practice of not questioning assumptions
and presenting them as common sense and true. In this case, the
scholar would not bring quotes from religious sources but
present the truth in his argument that is obvious to him.
Another way would be to quote honestly the source, but not get
into the issue of its scientific quality, only answer if these
assumptions are questioned.
On the other hand, it would not be honest if the religious
affiliation of the scholar is dissimulated. So it might be stated
somewhere that the scholar is of a certain faith and has a special
relationship to these sources and when he presents them he
needs to do it in a way that does not elicit contradiction. This is
not easy, but certainly possible, and it fits the Bahá’í conviction
of avoiding arguments and disunity. In any case, when
confronted, he would have to answer, and then a discussion
should take place. If the rejection of his assumption is never
voiced and if he is blacklisted because of it, there is not much
he can do, because usually this happens in secrecy and cannot be
challenged. It should be different following the academic

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
tradition that these issues need to be open for discussion and
not secretly pursued, but alas, this is the academic world we live
in today.
The words of Jesus (Matthew 10:16) come to mind when
considering the Bahá’í scholar in a modern academic setting.
Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves:
be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
How to deal with distraction
Bahá’u’lláh has not overlooked this issue. In the next
paragraph He makes an interesting observation, He talks about
the fact that everybody is looking for truth, everybody is like
the biblical patriarch Jacob looking for his lost son Joseph, who
was sold to Egypt. He states that all created things are
searching. Being created, means having to search and find.
From the Valley of Search:
In this journey the seeker reacheth a stage wherein he
seeth all created things wandering distracted in search of
the Friend. How many a Jacob will he see, hunting after
his Joseph; he will behold many a lover, hasting to seek
the Beloved, he will witness a world of desiring ones
searching after the One Desired. (SVFV 5)
Freud, in his Three Essays on Sexuality, discusses what he has
found in analytic praxis, i.e., “The finding of an object is in
fact a re-finding of it.”12 Talking about psychology, Freud does
not have to go further and he explains this sentence by
explaining that what we had in early childhood, in our
relationship with mother, is what we look for later in life, so
that the finding of a relationship is really a re-finding of this
original relation. The need to search and to find is explained
that way, but explaining a later experience by an earlier might
be psychologically interesting, yet, the question remains about

The Traceless Friend
the origin of this need to search and to find. What is it that
everybody is looking for, is searching for? In what way is
finding it the fulfillment of his life? Recently the same question
was stated in a more profound way.
Everyone worships reality. Each person looks about him,
listens a moment — listens as long as life will let him
pause to listen — and then he falls down and worships
whatever it is that looks like this is what it is all about.13
This is what — according Bahá’u’lláh — the seeker and a fortiori
the scholar will observe, all of creation is distracted in this
search, but the search is in all of them. Everyone is searching
reality for truth; for this final answer, even if somebody might
find that the final answer is in the understanding that there is no
truth at all, he still is searching for that and whole philosophical
theories have been built on this. Unfortunately, many look in
the wrong direction for answers, distracted they follow their
vain imagination, they develop ideologies and answers, that are
not truthful and lead astray, but the searching is there, even
when the finding is in error, when it is distorted by tradition or
based on assumptions that are wrong.
Bahá’u’lláh gives us the answer in a metaphor: it is search for
the Ka‘bih, the goal for the Muslim pilgrim in Mecca, it is the
final search for spiritual fulfillment, and He indicates that it
needs the aid from this Invisible Realm, basically the help from
the Creator.
Bahíyyih Nakhjavání raises an interesting issue when thinking
about questions, especially final questions.
We naively perceive questions as ‘doubt’ and answers as
‘certitude’ and assume, rather glibly, that just by being
Bahá’ís we have all the longed for answers to the
imponderable questions of or age. We forget that it is
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh that has unleashed these
questions upon us over the last century and a half. It is

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
actually His principles — of the relativity of truth and
the progressive nature of spiritual evolution — that have
caused such revolutions in men’s thinking and set into
motion such questions in the minds of scientists and
housewives alike.14
The alert scholar can easily follow these thoughts and find in
the different ideologies that are today propagated and espoused,
a distraction from the truth and it is additionally interesting to
find which of the Bahá’í principle has caused the question and,
unfortunately, the wrong answer that becomes a distraction for
the seeker and scholar.
For example, could it not be that the concept of
deconstruction, so popular in postmodern philosophy, is a
failed attempt to deal with the fact that truth in the Bahá’í faith
is called relative in the sense of being progressively renewed in
every Revelation, so that this concept must be confronted with
the idea of a progressive theology and philosophy, which is
reaching for the truth, but is not ever reaching absolute truths?
Naturally, when this possibility is considered, the causes for the
need to deconstruct are changing. It has nothing to do with
post-colonialism or the power imposed by a Western
constructive narrative. While all these going explanations may
have some aspect of truth, they really hide what is going on, i.e.,
the progressive change in understanding reality, which is the real
event that is usually not seen by all the wise men of post
modernism.
The English philosopher Bertrand Russell15 has called
Communism and Nazism a religion. Shoghi Effendi, following
Bahá’u’lláh (ESW 46), calls them a “religious irreligion.”16 One
could say that they are substitute religions, substituting an
imaginary reality for what is real and final in this world. The
fact that even 70 years of this “religion” in Russia did not work
and that communism did not do better in any other country
where it was tried, even in East Germany, should convince the
followers of this ideology. Yet, the fact that it is accepted as a

The Traceless Friend
pseudo-religion can explain that it still finds many followers,
especially in the Western “intelligentsia,” who accept this
secularized religion in order to avoid any true religion.
Bahá’u’lláh gives us to think when he continues to talk what
the seeker finds.
From the Valley of Search:
At every moment he findeth a weighty matter, in every
hour he becometh aware of a mystery; for he hath taken
his heart away from both worlds, and set out for the
Ka‘bih17 of the Beloved. At every step, aid from the
Invisible Realm will attend him and the heat of his search
will grow. (SVFV 5)
Bahá’u’lláh indicates something important here. When the
seeker or the scholar sees the distractions that are presented
today, he could find important issues and become aware of a
mystery, as long as he has taken his heart away from both
worlds. What could be the meaning of “both worlds?” The
interpretation I would like to follow is to assume that these two
worlds are, the world of the “seen” and the world of the
“unseen”, the world of the manifest and the world of the
hidden, or as it is stated in the Valley of Unity:
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee thou
shouldst comprehend the four divine states, and that the
nightingale of thine heart on all the branches of the
rosetree of existence, whether visible or concealed,
should cry out: “He is the first and the last, the Seen and
the Hidden...” (SVFV 27)
These two worlds of outwardness and inwardness are both
called “true of thyself” and are specifically described by
Bahá’u’lláh, when he explained them:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In thine outward appearance thou tellest of the
appearance of power in the realms of divine creation; in
thine inward being thou revealest the hidden mysteries
which are the divine trust deposited within thee. (SVFV 26)
It is clearly indicated that the outwardness is the physical,
bodily aspect of the human person and that the inwardness
presents the spiritual and inner aspect of man. The first is
related to the physical creation, the other is called a hidden
mystery deposited by God into men.
What is interesting here when this explanation is accepted, is
the fact that Bahá’u’lláh requires that the seeker take his heart
away from both worlds, in other words, the seeker must be
detached from both, from false attachment to his body and his
physical existence as well as from his mind, and his spiritual
“vain imaginations”, which can equally be leading him astray,
causing heedlessness and carelessness and looking into the
wrong sources in the search for meaning in life and for finding
the truth.
This is a clear distinction to the Christian tradition, where
the spiritual was the solution and the material was the way
leading to destruction. Where the world of nature was
condemned but the world of “super-nature” was the goal. The
Bahá’í understanding does not divide the world into nature as
the realm of the devil and super-nature as the realm of God.
There is the devil in both, to continue the metaphor, and both
can be a source of finding God, or can be a source of wrong
attachment leading away from God. This is expressed as well in
the statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Briefly, all effort and exertion put forth by man from the
fullness of his heart is worship, if it is prompted by the
highest motives and the will to do service to humanity.
This is worship: to serve mankind and to minister to the
needs of the people. Service is prayer. (PT 176)

The Traceless Friend
For the Bahá’í scholar and seeker, the world is no longer
divided into the natural and the super-natural. The world has
become one again and the direction the seeker needs to take is
using both, the physical and spiritual, both the body and the
mind to elevate himself on the Path of God, in search of the
Ka‘bih18 of the Beloved.
In doing so there is another aspect mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh.
The seeker as well as the scholar, one might say, is promised that
“At every step, aid from the Invisible Realm will attend him and
the heat of his search will grow.” This promise is the Divine
assurance that for the true seeker finding will eventually
happen, as long as his heart is pure and as long as he is not
directing his search towards vain imitations of culture and
tradition and as long as he avoids heedlessness in his intellectual
and physical life.
Bahá’u’lláh promises the seeker that “At every moment he
findeth a weighty matter, in every hour he becometh aware of a
mystery.” The question can be raised what are those weighty
matters and those mysteries, if not the ultimate reality, the final
goal and the truth of this world? To stay in the picture as
presented by Bahá’u’lláh, in the verse before, the seeker
will behold many a lover, hasting to seek the Beloved, he
will witness a world of desiring ones searching after the
One Desired.
Bahá’u’lláh in the following verses continues to describe the
search of the seeker and He presents us with an interesting
comparison, the standard of Majnún.
The standard of Majnún,19 “seek her everywhere”
What is the standard of Majnún is the question here.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
From the Valley of Search:
One must judge of search by the standard of the Majnún
of Love. It is related that one day they came upon
Majnún sifting the dust, and his tears flowing down.
They said, “What doest thou?” He said, “I seek for
Laylí.” They cried, “Alas for thee! Laylí is of pure spirit,
and thou seekest her in the dust!” He said, “I seek her
everywhere; haply somewhere I shall find her.”
The first consideration is following what was said above
about both aspects of reality. To find the spiritual lover by
sifting dust does not make sense in common understanding, yet,
it indicates the unity of reality, the unity of the inward and
outward aspect, of the manifest and the hidden. This could be a
reminder to all seekers and scholars to not neglect the physical
reality, and to take this world seriously without false
attachment to it. Only in the unity between the spiritual and
material can the seeker find the “beloved.”
Yea, although to the wise it be shameful to seek the Lord
of Lords in the dust, yet this betokeneth intense ardor in
searching. “Whoso seeketh out a thing with zeal shall
find it.”20
Here the ardor of searching is held against conventional
wisdom, which would find it shameful to search in the material
world for the spiritual, in the dust for the beloved. The question
might be asked what is meant by sifting dust and seeking the
Lord in the dust. Without doubt, at least in the English
translation it is an allusion to the word of Genesis 2:7:
And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the
ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life;
and man became a living soul.

The Traceless Friend
Here it is stated that man was created from the dust of this
world and that the spirit or breath was then given to him to
make him a living soul.
The exclusivity of search and sacrificing everything for it
In the next two concluding paragraphs the main themes of
this Valley of Search are repeated and summarized, yet, this is
done in a very special way. These two paragraphs seem to
contradict each other. This contradiction or opposition must be
understood as a message that can only be expressed by stating
polar
opposites
describing
reality
in
two
polar,
yet
complementary statements. This is not a unique example in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, who frequently makes such statements,
for example, when talking about an end that has not end or
describing God as the most hidden and the most manifest.
In the first paragraph, it is described how the seeker in his
hunt for the Beloved One has to sacrifice everything, which
seems to describe a person who leaves this world, like a hermit
or monk, not only leaving the physical world but also the world
of intellect and science by giving up everything he knows in
order to reach the realm of the spirit.
In opposition to that, in the next paragraph, it is described that
the seeker must not only go into every land and region, but also
join every company and fellowship in order to find the secret of
the Friend and the beauty of the Loved One. This reminds us of
Majnún who seeks the spiritual Laylí in the dust of this world
and who was described as an example of intensive search.
What does this arrangement tell us about the search described
in this valley? It seems that in order to search and to find, a
balance must be found between these two spiritual movements,
a movement that is at the same time moving away from the
world and into the world. First the movement away from this
world and its temptation will be described.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Excursion on Vain Imagination / Idle Fancy
In the following section the attempt is made to correlate
statements of the Bahá’í Writings with the concept of the seven
deadly sins or the eight vices from the Christian tradition. This
concept is linked to the works of the 4th century monk Evagrius
Ponticus, who listed eight evil thoughts. The description of
these eight vices as presented below, is taken mainly from the
paper of Karl Wucherer:21 Maskierte Depression und Trägheit in
der
klassischen
Achtlasterlehre
(Masked
Depression
and
Heedlessness in the Classical Doctrine of the Eight Vices),
where the history of these teachings is explored and extensively
analyzed according to modern psychological findings of
“Daseinsanalyse” a special form of existential analysis developed
in Austria.
Vain imagination and idle fancy are a recurring theme of the
Bahá’í Writings and can be found in the Writings of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh, as well as in the interpretation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi. This section will explore the meaning of these
concepts and will attempt to correlate them with insights
developed in the Christian tradition, especially as it was
developed into the Eight Vices or Seven Capital Sins.
In these two statements of Bahá’u’lláh, the use of these two
concepts is made first in explaining how His enemies are trying
to hide him using vain imaginations and idle fancies.
For now, however, they have hidden Me behind a veil of
darkness, whose fabric they have woven with the hands
of idle fancy and vain imagination. (SLH 135)
Yet, the faithful is blessed to have been able to utterly abolish
these dangerous attitudes, vices or idols of the self in his life
with the help of God.
Blessed art thou for having utterly abolished the idol of
self and of vain imagination, and for having rent asunder

The Traceless Friend
the veil of idle fancy, through the power of the might of
thy Lord, the Supreme Protector, the Almighty, the one
Beloved. (GWB 291)
In the Valley of Knowledge, the wayfarer will be able to shut
the doors to vain imaginations through the fear of God.
Come out of doubt into certitude, and turn from the
darkness of illusion to the guiding light of the fear of
God. His inner eyes will open and he will privily
converse with his Beloved; he will set ajar the gate of
truth and piety, and shut the doors of vain imaginings.
(SVFV 10)
In the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Bahá’u’lláh describes another valley, the
valley of arrogance and pride which is entered by petty-minded
souls who follow the leaders of their faith and are lost in idles
fancy.
Consequently, such behavior can be attributed to naught
save the petty-mindedness of such souls as tread the
valley of arrogance and pride, are lost in the wilds of
remoteness, walk in the ways of their idle fancy, and
follow the dictates of the leaders of their faith. (KI 14)
Previously, under the precondition of search, it was
mentioned that cleansing the heart means to turn away from
imitation, which is following the traces of their forefathers and
sires.
It is incumbent on these servants that they cleanse the
heart — which is the wellspring of divine treasures —
from every marking, and that they turn away from
imitation, which is following the traces of their
forefathers and sires, and shut the door of friendliness
and enmity upon all the people of the earth. (SVFV)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
It appears from these statements above that the phrase idle
fancy and vain imagination is both connected with ideologies
that remain in the tradition of a culture and with the refusal to
accept the new vision of a Manifestation. In the traditional
doctrine of vices in Christian ethical tradition both of these
statements, the idle fancy and vain imagination might be
correlated to the first two vices of pride and vainglory. The
eight vices are organized towards their location in the human
body as described below.
Doctrine of the Eight Vices
This doctrine is presented here in a shortened form taken
from the paper by Wucherer and every vice is correlated with
statements from the Bahá’í Writings and a comment. They are
headed by the respected faculty used or better abused during
their execution.
Rational Faculty: Mind
1. Pride Ὑπερηφανία (hyperēphania) — Hubris
2. Vainglory Κενοδοξία (kenodoxia) — Boasting
Idle Fancy and Vain Imagination
Know, moreover, that should one who hath attained
unto these stations and embarked upon these journeys
fall prey to pride and vainglory, he would at that very
moment come to naught and return to the first step
without realizing it. (GDM 65)
Like in the doctrine of the Eight Vices, the danger to
succumb to these two vices is greatest for those who have
successfully overcome all the other lower vices, and the
statement of Bahá’u’lláh expresses this warning most clearly.
Even a person who has reached the status of an academician or

The Traceless Friend
scholar and has habitually overcome the lower forms of vices is
not protected by his or her seemingly virtuous and moral life
from these basic intellectual and spiritual vices. Therefore, it is
important to have this possibility of pride and vainglory in
front of our mind in all scholarly and academic efforts and to
preserve a cautious attitude with humility and forbearance in all
scholarly and personal enterprises. This was clearly stated by the
Universal House of Justice as mentioned above in the
introduction where it was stated:
Inevitably believers will commit errors as they strive to
rise to this degree of maturity, and this calls for
forbearance and humility on the part of all concerned,
so that such matters do not cause disunity or discord
among the friends.22
Emotional Faculty: Heart
3. Heedlessness/Distraction Ἀκηδία (akēdia) — Lethargy, Carelessness
Thus did they wander in the paths of delusion and the
ways of heedlessness, and return to their abode in that
fire which feedeth on their own souls. These, verily, are
numbered with the infidels whose names have been
inscribed by the Pen of God in His holy Book. Nor have
they ever found, or will ever find, a friend or helper.
(GDM 31)
Bahá’u’lláh makes here a very interesting remark, contending
that persons given to heedlessness or carelessness will never find
a friend. Clearly, friendship and love is based on an attitude of
care and concern for others; a careless person will be a lonely
person who has to fill his life with the other basic vices to find
distraction and pleasure.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
4. Anger Ὀργή (orgē) — Wrath, Anger
Most of the people are bewildered in their drunkenness
and wear on their faces the evidences of anger. (PB 100)
Another interesting remark of Bahá’u’lláh here is the fact
that anger is first shown in their faces, because it originates in
the heart or in the emotional section, then becomes visible in
the body, especially in the face, and only later becomes known
intellectually to the angry person. Hence, we have the
observation that outsiders can recognize that somebody gets
angry, even when the angry person denies these feelings. When
anger shows in the face the mind will then exaggerate this anger
by self-talk and develop the anger into rage, unless the person
manages and controls his anger properly.
5. Depression Λύπη (lypē) — Sorrow, Grief or Envy as Sadness at
another’s good fortune
I have, however, contented Myself with that which was
mentioned, lest thou become wearied in thy journey or
feel inclined to turn back, or lest thou be overtaken by
sadness and sorrow and overcome with despondency,
trouble and fatigue. (GDM 11-12)
This is the emotional aspects of a failed life where
carelessness, anger and depression prevent the heart to be open
to his fellowman and finally to the Revelation of God,
especially when the self has not developed its potential and
failed his purpose.
Instinctual Faculty: Abdomen or Gut
6. Money Addiction Φιλαργυρία (philargyria) — avarice, greed
Why, then, exhibit such greed in amassing the treasures
of the earth, when your days are numbered and your

The Traceless Friend
chance is well-nigh lost? Will ye not, then, O heedless
ones, shake off your slumber? (GWB 127)
7. Sexual Addiction Πορνεία (porneia) — prostitution, fornication,
lust
He should cleanse his heart from all evil passions and
corrupt desires, for the fear of God is the weapon that
can render him victorious, the primary instrument
whereby he can achieve his purpose. (GWB 272)
8. Food Addiction Γαστριµαργία (gastrimargia) — gluttony
Is it on your food and your drink that ye pride
yourselves, on the riches ye lay up in your treasuries, on
the diversity and the cost of the ornaments with which
ye deck yourselves? (PB 10)
It is rather remarkable to observe how failing in these lower
regions of life is causing the higher capacities to fail as well,
which was observed already before in the doctrine of the eight
Vices in early Christianity, and which seems to be still true as
described in psychology and ethics. A more advanced study of
Bahá’í Ethic, which cannot be provided in this paper, could shed
further light at this correlation and might help to develop this
doctrine in the future. We are now returning back to the Seven
Valleys after this excursion.
From the Valley of Search:
The true seeker hunteth naught but the object of his
quest and the lover hath no desire save union with his
beloved. Nor shall the seeker reach his goal unless he
sacrifices all things. That is, whatever he hath seen, and
heard, and understood, all must he set at naught, that he
may enter the realm of the spirit, which is the City of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
God. Labor is needed, if we are to seek Him; ardor is
needed, if we are to drink of the honey of reunion with
Him; and if we taste of this cup, we shall cast away the
world. (SVFV 6)
In order to reach the union with his beloved, the wayfarer has
to set aside and sacrifices everything he has seen, heard and
understood. In other words, he has to be free from all
prejudices, even those that come with his culture and tradition,
especially the traditions that came from any previous religion.
Additionally, he has to be free from any philosophical
prejudice, any ideology no matter how prevalent and pervasive
it is or how strongly it is presented in academia today.
Without this freedom from tradition, from what “is known”,
from “what one has learned” and even from what is the accepted
way of understanding and doing research, the wayfarer and
scholar will not be able to find the beloved and come to reach
the goal of unification, or, as it is said here, he would not enter
the realm of the spirit, which is the City of God.
The realm of the spirit was explained by Bahá’u’lláh as the
place from where the Manifestation come with their message to
mankind.
The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days being
thus closed in the face of all beings, the Source of
infinite grace, according to His saying, “His grace hath
transcended all things; My grace hath encompassed them
all,” hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to
appear out of the realm of the spirit, in the noble form
of the human temple, and be made manifest unto all
men, that they may impart unto the world the mysteries
of the unchangeable Being, and tell of the subtleties of
His imperishable Essence. (GWB )
The door of knowledge of God is closed to humanity unless
and until it is opened by the Manifestation who comes from this

The Traceless Friend
realm of the spirit as a human being and manifests unto all men
the mysteries of God. He is described as the unchangeable Being
and an imperishable Essence.
Giving up all knowledge in order to reach this realm of the
spirit how is it possible for the seeker and especially the scholar,
to function and what criteria can she use to promote her
studies?
The question raised here is, “By what standard is a scholar to
measure his research and studies, and how should she use the
prevailing standard and methods, which are promoted today in
academia?” How does she have to take the warning presented by
Bahá’u’lláh when He stated:
Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and
sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book itself
is the unerring Balance established amongst men. (ESW
128)
One could assume that this warning is only useful in the
science of theology and in interpreting religion, and that
modern science being secular has its own standards and does not
fall under this warning. While this could be true in some cases,
where there is no interrelation between a particular science and
religion, for most scientific enterprises it is not that simple,
especially when we talk about basic scientific assumptions and
premises, especially in the humanistic sciences like psychology,
sociology, history and philosophy, which cannot be clearly
separated in their standards and methods, because of the way
these sciences are developed today. This precludes any opening
towards the possibility of religion and leads directly towards
atheism or agnosticism and their basic assumptions which are
never discussed and which frequently exclude anything related
to God or Religion.
The modern world, especially in its so-called post-modern
development, is described by Bahá’u’lláh as being sick, as

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
languishing on its bed of sickness, sore-tried and disillusioned.
Academia and schools of higher learning can be seen as the
proponent of this malady, which has been described in the
following quote.
We can well perceive how the whole human race is
encompassed with great, with incalculable afflictions.
We see it languishing on its bed of sickness, sore-tried
and disillusioned. They that are intoxicated by self-
conceit have interposed themselves between it and the
Divine and infallible Physician. Witness how they have
entangled all men, themselves included, in the mesh of
their devices. They can neither discover the cause of the
disease, nor have they any knowledge of the remedy.
They have conceived the straight to be crooked, and
have imagined their friend an enemy. (GWB 213)
Bahá’u’lláh clearly states in this passage that the reason for
this world-wide affliction is the fact that their leaders are
intoxicated by self-conceit and have interposed themselves
between it and the Divine and infallible Physician. In other
words, the leaders of today’s humanity have replaced the
religions of the past with new ideologies that can be described
as substitute religions or irreligions. Since they neither know the
cause of the problem nor the remedy for it, they promise
solutions but do not deliver; in fact, what they deliver is worse
than the problem they pretend to solve.
Whenever such an ideology was imposed with terror in any
country from Germany, Russia and China to Cuba, the first
result was a poorly functioning economy and in some cases like
in the Ukraine and in China mass starvation. Even 70 years of
Communism and Marxism in Russia, did not change this
situation and all the terror of the regime did not improve the lot
of the people. This is contrary to the hopes of Marx, who had
predicted that a revolution based on his economic theory
presented in the Communist Manifesto and developed in his
book “the Capital” would change the fate of the workers

The Traceless Friend
permanently and forever to a paradise-like state of final
perfection.
Part of Germany, East-Germany, was occupied by Russia and
placed under the same ideological rule, the once prosperous
country became poor, while West-Germany regained its previous
prosperity. This clearly demonstrates the inability and falseness
of these ideologies; nevertheless, they are still pursued under
different names today. Surprisingly, the same basic ideology is
still active today and promoted by so-called “Progressives,”
becoming a substitute religion in the Western world.
The question is how does this consideration apply to the
seeking Bahá’í scholar? Bahá’u’lláh requests that the seeker
sacrifices all things. That is, whatever he hath seen, and heard,
and understood, all must he set at naught … Does that not mean
that all ideologies, all false philosophies of modern thinking,
even all accepted scientific ideologies in academia, need to be
critically investigated by the Bahá’í scholar and seen from the
Vision of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh? Obviously, a
familiarity with this Vision is the condition sine qua non for
such a process to be started.
The Universal House of Justice, in a letter written on
December 10, 1992, reminds us of the statements written on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi:
His secretary wrote, on another occasion, that:
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís (who
asked his advice, and in general also) to study history,
economics, sociology, etc., in order to be au courant
with all the progressive movements and thoughts being
put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to
the Bahá’í teachings. What he wants the Bahá’ís to do is
to study more, not to study less. The more general
knowledge, scientific and otherwise, they possess, the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
better. Likewise he is constantly urging them to really
study the Bahá’í teachings more deeply.
This quote is followed up by further emphasizing that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is the standard of truth for every
believer.
In the simultaneous endeavor to pursue their studies and
to delve deeply into the Bahá’í Teachings, believers are
enjoined to maintain a keen awareness that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is the standard of truth against
which all other views and conclusions are to be
measured.
This statement is followed up with a word from Bahá’u’lláh
expressed in the Book of Certitude:
The heart must needs therefore be cleansed from the idle
sayings of men, and sanctified from every earthly
affection, so that it may discover the hidden meaning of
divine inspiration, and become the treasury of the
mysteries of divine knowledge... (KI 69)
The seeker, being a wayfarer in the Valley of Search, being an
unstudied Bahá’í or a scholarly educated Bahá’í has to
… sacrifice all things. That is, whatever he hath seen, and
heard, and understood, all must he set at naught, that he
may enter the realm of the spirit…
This is not an easy task and requires a life-long effort and
dedication. Actually, it is not a one time achievement, but a
process that has to be always kept in mind as a guiding principle
of all searching and studying. Only when this process is guiding
the scholar he can precede to the other complementary side of
his search, which is described in the next sentence of this tablet.

The Traceless Friend
Beholding the beauty of the Loved One
On this journey the traveler abideth in every land and
dwelleth in every region. In every face, he seeketh the
beauty of the Friend; in every country he looketh for the
Beloved. He joineth every company, and seeketh
fellowship with every soul, that haply in some mind he
may uncover the secret of the Friend, or in some face he
may behold the beauty of the Loved One. (SVFV 7)
As described in the previous sentence, the seeker has to sacrifice
everything and give all what he knows and what he has learned
about this world, and in this following sentence it seems the
opposite is recommended: the traveler in this journey is to live
in every land and region and seek friendship with every soul. It
needs to be noted that both of these movements are supposed
to happen at the same time and they are not opposite but
complementary. In other words the more the seeker gives up his
previous knowledge, the better he can listen to the mind of
others he meets and the more likely he can find the secret and
beauty of the Bahá’í Revelation in the other.
In this movement away from what he knows and remembers
about people and the world, he can better listen and find out
about the truth that is in this world and can see the other as
manifesting the sign of the creator, can see in him/her the
beauty of the Loved One.
Now he can freely join every land, every country and can
study every theory or ideology and is able to see and distinguish
what is true and what is false. Having the standard of the Most
Sublime Vision of Bahá’u’lláh and being established in the
Covenant, he or she can benefit from many different ideas,
correlate them with the revealed truth and find new
understanding and new relationships in the thinking of today’s
scholars, they have a touchstone to sort out what is true and
lasting and what is only temporary and passing.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In the previous section, where the wayfarer was encouraged
to give up everything, even everything he knows, the traditional
list of vices was mentioned. Especially the vices related to what
are called in the Writings vain imagination and idle fancy. Here
the virtues need to be mentioned which alone make it possible
to follow the advice of Bahá’u’lláh to live in every land and join
every company. There was developed in Christianity a list of
virtues opposed by a list of vices by Felix Just, S.J., Ph.D.23
Christian morality is not only based foundationally on the
Ten Commandments (see Exod 20 & Deut 5), but also focuses
traditionally on what are called the seven “Capital Sins” or
“Deadly Sins,” often pairing and contrasting these with seven
“Principal Virtues” which is presented below.
Virtue and Vice Lists
Capital
Deadly Sins:
pride
arrogance
superbia
avarice
greed
avaritia
envy
jealousy
invidia
wrath
anger
ira
Principal Virtues:
humility
modesty
humilitas
generosity
charity
liberalitas
kindness
gratitude
humanitas
patience
compassion
patientia

Capital
Deadly Sins:
lust
impurity
luxuria
gluttony
voracity
gula
sloth
laziness
acedia
Principal Virtues:
chastity
purity
castitas
temperance
moderation
temperantia
diligence
fervor
industria
It is not difficult to find Bahá’í Scriptures supporting this list,
but this would be the task of a Bahá’í Ethic, which cannot be
attempted in the frame of this paper.

The Traceless Friend
Conclusion

The picture above is based on this statement of Bahá’u’lláh:
Consider the rational faculty with which God hath
endowed the essence of man.
Examine thine own self, and behold how thy motion and
stillness, thy will and purpose ... all proceed from, and
owe their existence to, this same faculty. (GWB 163)
The self, the human psyche has, according to the Revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh, four aspects, which are opposite to each other
and yet connected and even existing through each other. So we
have the Stillness on the one side where the detachment and
acceptance is located and where the wayfarer “sacrifices all
things.” This is explained by Bahá’u’lláh that he must give up,
“whatever he hath seen, and heard, and understood, all must he
set at naught, that he may enter the realm of the spirit, which is
the City of God”. (SVFV 6) The realm of the spirit is this area of
the self where the stillness of the spirit is located and where

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Detachment and Acceptance are predominant. This must be
balanced and harmonized with the other side, the side of
Movement, where the wayfarer is outgoing, and where he
“joineth every company, and seeketh fellowship with every soul,
that haply in some mind he may uncover the secret of the
Friend, or in some face he may behold the beauty of the Loved
One.” (SVFV 7)
These two sides of the self are complementary and it is the
art of living to find the right balance between these two sides so
that one supports the other. Any one-sided approach will
become extreme and distorts the self. The other complementary
polarity between Will and Purpose is showing the balance
between the individual and social aspect of the self, so that the
social and general purpose needs to regulate the individual will,
in order that the action of the person becomes meaningful. This
structure of the self is called tetrarchic, which concept has been
developed by this writer in several papers in the Lights of ‘Irfán
publications during the last 10 years, especially in book 12,
2010 under the title “The Essence of Man, Towards a Bahá’í
Understanding of Human Nature and Psychology.”24
In the beginning of this paper the question was raised how
the “unfettered search after truth” can be combined with
“absolute loyalty to the Manifestation of God.” Not only in the
finding of scholars, but also in their methodology any answer to
this question presupposes that reality is seen as it is seen in the
Bahá’í Revelation. Any other viewpoint will come in conflict
with the absolute loyalty to the Manifestation. Therefore, any
reductionistic, materialistic or positivistic understanding of
science, especially of the humanistic sciences, will lead the
scholar astray and bring him/her in conflict with the Bahá’í
Revelation. Any viewpoint that excludes anything spiritual
from science and restricts science to the Newtonian mechanistic
understanding of reality or to Descartes dualistic understanding
of the world does not fit in the standard of the Bahá’í
Revelation. There is no balance or harmony possible between
the Bahá’í Revelation and some of the modern scientific

The Traceless Friend
assumption about reality; there is balance only in reality
between complementary aspects of life like described above. It
is important to have this distinction in mind whenever the
scholar is confronted by this question between unfettered
search after truth and loyalty to the Manifestation of God.
Not only the Bahá’í scholar but every Bahá’í, be he/she
learned or not, needs to live in this balance of the self between
stillness and Movement, or the spiritual and material aspect of
life and of the world, as well as between Will and Purpose and
the individual intentionality regulated by the collective human
goal of life. The only way to find this balance is to accept the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh as the standard of truth, not only in
theology, but also in the basic understanding of the world, in
philosophy
and
psychology,
in
the
methodology
and
philosophical assumptions that are fundamental to any science,
especially of the humanistic sciences. This was expressed in a
letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi which will close these
considerations:
His secretary wrote, on another occasion, that:
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís (who
asked his advice, and in general also) to study history,
economics, sociology, etc., in order to be au courant
with all the progressive movements and thoughts being
put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to
the Bahá’í teachings. What he wants the Bahá’ís to do is
to study more, not to study less. The more general
knowledge, scientific and otherwise, they possess, the
better. Likewise he is constantly urging them to really
study the Bahá’í teachings more deeply. (The Universal
House of Justice, 1992 Dec 10, Issues Related to Study
Compilation)
This quote is followed up further emphasizing that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is the standard of truth for every
believer.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In the simultaneous endeavor to pursue their studies and
to delve deeply into the Bahá’í Teachings, believers are
enjoined to maintain a keen awareness that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is the standard of truth against
which all other views and conclusions are to be
measured.

NOTES
1 A list of all appreciations of the Bahá’í Writings used in this paper is
attached as the appendix I at the end of this book (p. 425).
2 All words and sentences of Holy Scriptures in this paper are presented in
italics, when quoted as a paragraph or when quoted in a sentence.
3 International Teaching Centre, Bahá’í Scholarship, letter written August, 9
1984.
4 Qur’an 2:84.
5 Augustinus Karl Wucherer–Huldenfeld, Philosphische Theologie im
Umbruch, (Philosophic Theology in Radical Renewal); Boehlau Verlag,
Vienna, Cologne, Weimar, 2011. The idea of the “Integrale Ganze” is
described especially in the Fourth Excursion, pages 469-556, and the
principle of Unity in Diversity is mentioned in the same context.
6 It needs to be noted that this division of the text into separate lines is not
in the original and has been made in order to facilitate its understanding.
7 Confer Wolfgang Klebel, in Lights of Irfán, Book Eight, 2007, Bahá’í
National Center, Evanston IL 60201, “The Word is the Master Key for the
Whole World. The Bahá’í Revelation and the Teaching and Spirit of the
Cause in Dialogical and Personal Thinking,” pp. 53-124
8 Wolfgang Klebel, Light of ‘Irfan, Book Ten, “In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart;
Heart in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology” (2009), pp.107-148
9 Rollin McGray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Appreciative Heart, The
Psychophysiology of Positive Emotions and Optimal Functioning.
Published by the Institute of HeartMath, 14700 West Par Avenue; Boulder
Creek, CA 95006; 2003, p. 1
10 Mindshock, Channel Four TV on June 26, 2006:
This program featured the case of a heart transplant operation where
the recipient underwent major changes after surgery. She woke up after
the operation and said she would love a beer and yet she had never been
a beer drinker ever. She suddenly developed a taste for green peppers

The Traceless Friend

and Mexican food. Later she had a dream where she met the person
whose heart she took. In the dream she knew his name as Tim L. The
dream had a major effect on her and she believed that she had truly met
the man who had donated the heart. Later she tried to pursue this but
was refused because of patient confidentiality. But it became apparent
that the heart was taken from a young man who loved to drink beer and
eat Mexican food. His name was Tim Lamerande.
This amazing dream started a debate amongst some people involved in
the medical profession. Many still refute their research. Yet the research
seems quite strong. Professor Paul Pearsaul has collected several cases
of similar organ transplants. Many people who have heart transplants
seem to take on the personality of the donor. …
Dr. Rollin McCray from California’s HeartMath Institute has
developed research started by Dr Andrew Armour. Dr Armour has
claimed that there is a system of living neurons on the heart. McCray
states that the heart must have a memory because such a function is
vital to the organ. It must be able to store when the last heart beat
occurred. Such a function is by its very nature a memory and therefore
is a type of function normally associated with the brain.
11 U.S. Bahá’í News, compilation of letters and extracts of writings from the
Guardian published in the Bahá’í news of the United States [December
1924 — November 1934]
12 The complete psychological works of Sigmund Freud, Standard Edition,
London, Hogarth Press, 1966-1974, Volume 7, page 222
13 Evan Harris Walker, The Physics of Consciousness, The Quantum Mind
and the Meaning of Life, Basic Books, Perseus Books Group, New York
2000, pp.327-328
14 Bahíyyih Nakhjavání, Asking Questions, A Challenge to Fundamentalism,”
George Ronald, Oxford 1990, p. 3
15 Bertrand Russell, who was by no means a friend of religion, stated in his
book Religion and Science in the year 1935 the following:
“The older religion has thus become purified and in many ways
beneficial, new religions have arisen, with all the persecuting zeal of
vigorous youth, and with as great a readiness to oppose science as
characterized the Inquisition in the time of Galileo. If you maintain in
Germany that Christ was a Jew, or in Russia that the atom has lost its
substantiality and become a mere series of events, you are liable to
severe punishment.” (from a reprint by Oxford University Press, New
York, Oxford, 1997, pages 247-248)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

16 “It is an economic theory, definitely harnessed to disbelief in God. It is a
religious irreligion... It has a passionate sense of mission, and is carrying
on its anti-God campaign … (WOB 181)
17 The holy Sanctuary at Mecca. Here the word means “goal.”]
18 The holy Sanctuary at Mecca. Here the word means “goal.”]
19 Literally, Majnún means “insane.” This is the title of the celebrated lover
of ancient Persian and Arabian lore, who’s beloved was Laylí, daughter of
an Arabian prince. Symbolizing true human love bordering on the divine,
the story has been made the theme of many a Persian romantic poem,
particularly that of Nizami, written in 1188-1189 A.D
20 Arabian proverb
20 Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld “Befreiung und Gotteserkenntnis”
(Liberation and Recognition of God), Böhlau Verlag, Wien, Köln,
Weimar, 2009, pp. 71-101.
22 International Teaching Centre, 1984, Aug Bahá’í Scholarship
23 Found on the internet under Virtues and Vices
24 These papers are published electronically at irfancolloquia.org/database

The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings
Ian Kluge
1. Preface
This paper is part of an on-going project of studying the
philosophic principles explicitly and implicitly embedded in the
Bahá’í Writings and correlating them with other religions
and/or philosophies. Shoghi Effendi recognized the necessity of
such correlation work as early as 1933,1 when he wrote,
It is hoped that all the Bahá’í students will follow the
noble example you have set before them and will,
henceforth, be led to investigate and analyse the
principles of the Faith and to correlate them with the
modern aspects of philosophy and science. Every
intelligent and thoughtful young Bahá’í should always
approach the Cause in this way, for therein lies the very
essence of the principle of independent investigation of
truth.2
In this statement, Shoghi Effendi not only asserts the
importance of correlating philosophy with the Writings, but
also provides a reason why such work is necessary. It is essential
to one of the cardinal principles of the Bahá’í Faith viz. the
independent investigation of truth, because comparing i.e.
finding explicit or implicit similarities and differences is
essential to all learning. This, in turn, helps us to understand the
Bahá’í Writings in greater depth and also to appreciate how far

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
the Bahá’í teachings extend into other systems of thought and
belief. Shoghi Effendi says,
The Cause needs more Bahá’í scholars, people who not
only are devoted to it and believe in it and are anxious
to tell others about it, but also who have a deep grasp of
the Teachings and their significance, and who can
correlate its beliefs with the current thoughts and
problems of the people of the world.3
Such correlation work is an important part of bringing the
Faith to the world’s attention. When people see that the
Writings are highly relevant and applicable to the inner psycho-
spiritual and outer economic, socio-political and cultural
problems of our time, they will be more open-minded and more
inclined to investigate the Writings further. Correlating the
Writings to contemporary intellectual and religious currents is a
doorway to the Faith. Shoghi Effendi’s encouragement of
correlation studies is designed to encourage us to open more
such doorways:
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís (who
asked his advice, and in general also) to study history,
economics, sociology, etc., in order to be au courant
with all the progressive movements and thoughts being
put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to
the Bahá’í teachings.4
My on-going correlation studies aim at improving our
philosophic understanding of the Bahá’í Writings and their
relation to other systems of belief and/or thought. A
philosophic understanding of the Writings must, of course, base
itself on the Writings themselves and take them as the standard
of truth. As Bahá’u’lláh says,
Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and
sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book itself

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
is the unerring Balance established amongst men. [ESW
128]
The philosophic approach seeks to understand the Writings
on the basis of the philosophic ideas explicitly and implicitly
present in the Texts themselves. It also examines the philosophic
language and terminology embedded in the Writings. Such
understanding seeks to discover what the Writings say or imply
about topics such as metaphysics, ontology, epistemology,
ethics, philosophy of man, philosophy of history and political
and social philosophy. It aims at elucidating the foundational
principles which underlie and inform or shape the teachings on
these (and other) subjects. The fact that the Writings have so
much to say about these subjects encourages this approach.
The first and most obvious advantage of the philosophic
approach is that it facilitates in-depth engagement with the
divine Texts by training our minds in such essential skills as
questioning, analysis, logic, evaluation, drawing inferences and
identifying premises. This increases our understanding of the
Writings, especially in those frequently encountered passages
that are highly philosophical in nature such as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
argument for the immortality of the soul [SAQ 238] which reveals
more of its depth when approached philosophically. The
philosophical approach also helps us to identify the explicit and
hidden connections that shed light on the meaning of a text and
allow us to discern more of the underlying unity of the
Writings, i.e. their organic, interdependent structure. When
these implicit connections become evident we are better
prepared to see the wider range of topics to which the Writings
are relevant.
Understanding the Writings philosophically draws attention
to the enormous importance of reason in the Writings and,
thereby, demonstrates that reason and faith are not really in
conflict. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes this clear when he states, “Reason
is the first faculty of man, and the religion of God is in

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
harmony with it,” [PUP 231] and adds that humanity needs to
attain “reasoning faith.” [PUP 321] Furthermore, he states,
If religious belief and doctrine is at variance with
reason, it proceeds from the limited mind of man and
not from God; therefore, it is unworthy of belief and
not deserving of attention; the heart finds no rest in it,
and real faith is impossible. How can man believe that
which he knows to be opposed to reason? Is this
possible? Can the heart accept that which reason denies?5
What is especially important here is the connection between
reason and the heart, suggesting that to win hearts, we must also
win minds. In a similar vein, he asks,
How can man believe that which he knows to be
opposed to reason? Is this possible? [PUP 231]
However, reason is not just necessary for “real faith” in the
heart, it is also necessary because “in this age “the peoples of the
world need the arguments of reason.” [SAQ 7] This leads to
another advantage of a philosophic understanding of the
Writings.
Bahá’u’lláh says we should “Be anxiously concerned with the
needs of the age [we] live in, and center [our] deliberations on
its exigencies and requirements.” [GWB CVI, 213] As we have seen
above, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that people today “need the arguments
of reason.” A philosophic approach to the Writings helps us
fulfill that need by increasing our ability to teach the Faith in a
clear and rational manner. Clear, rational explication of the
Writings makes them more attractive and persuasive because
well-reasoned explications provide facilitate understanding and
enhance credibility, especially in an age inclined to be very
critical of religions. Carefully reasoned presentations inspire
confidence in the teachings instead of perplexity and confusion.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
A philosophic understanding of the Writings also facilitates
dialogue with other religions, especially those, that, like
Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism, have well
developed philosophical traditions of their own. Without such
understanding of the Bahá’í Writings, the opportunities for
dialogue with such partners will be limited because they cannot
be adequately understood without their philosophic aspects.
Exploring philosophical correlations with other religions and/or
systems of thought are also important teaching tools because
they strengthen Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation of the essential oneness
of all religions, especially if these correlations go below surface
similarities and deal with fundamental philosophic similarities.
For example, no religion takes matter simply at face value; all
invest the material world with an aspect that is super-natural or
extra-material which is not reducible to matter. This
fundamental unity shows that all religions are working from the
same or similar ontological premises.
Finally, a philosophic understanding of the Writings is also
essential for apologetics, for defending the Faith against
misrepresentations of the teachings. According to Abdu’l-Bahá,
“the possessor of knowledge ... should be the defender of his
faith.” [SDC 39] As the Faith becomes increasingly better known,
the importance of a rational, philosophically informed and
dignified defense of the teachings will grow.
2: Introduction
Ethics, the analysis and evaluation of the systems of
obligations by which people live or should live may be divided
into four aspects. The first, called normative ethics, considers
how we are obligated to act if we wish to be considered ‘moral’
according to an ethical code we and/or our society have
adopted. Sometimes they are called “theories of obligation.”6
Normative ethics are prescriptive, i.e. they tell us how to behave
either by issuing specific injunctions such as ‘Do not steal’ or
by prescribing a principle by which we must judge our

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
behaviors. One form of Kant’s categorical imperative, for
example, tells us that we must always treat other human beings
as ends-in-themselves and must never use them as a means or
tool to reach our own goals. While this statement does not
impose any specific action, it does provide a standard by which
we can judge whether our actions are moral or not. Using it, we
can develop a clearer understanding of what we ought to do or
what we ought to avoid.
The second aspect of ethics is descriptive ethics which is the
empirical study of how different cultures deal with particular
ethical issues. For example, while many Western and Far Eastern
cultures regard it as ‘moral’ to care for aged parents, the Inuit
of North America regard it as ethically meritorious to strangle
them or abandon them in the snow. Living in one of the
harshest environments on earth, they have adopted ‘survival
ethics’ which make group survival the standard of right and
wrong. Descriptive ethics remains strictly neutral and never
passes judgment about the moral worth of the actions it studies.
It all ethical system of equal worth.
The third aspect of ethics is applied ethics which examines
ethical issues in regards to specific problems such as civil
disobedience, privacy, physician assisted suicide and abortion.
Almost all areas of professional studies now involve some
examination of ethical problems. For example, doctors and
nurses receive courses in medical ethics; teachers in teaching
ethics; commerce students in commercial ethics and engineers in
engineering ethics. Each of these areas has gradually become a
specialty to itself and is often taught separately from
philosophy in colleges and universities.
The fourth aspect is meta-ethics which analyzes the nature of
ethics itself. Meta-ethics has little or nothing to say about
particular moral problems such as the lying or theft. Rather, it
is a second-order pursuit, i.e. it philosophizes about ethics by
examining the terminology and arguments used by ethicists and

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
by seeking to clarify the pre-suppositions implicit in various
moral positions. It explores such questions as
o What is goodness and what are its properties?”;
o What pre-suppositions are necessary to establish an
ethical system?”;
o Can there be objective moral facts?”;
o Can moral claims have cross-cultural validity?”;
o Are moral judgment such as ‘good’ or ‘evil’ mind-
independent?”;
o Are moral judgments based on emotions or intellect?”;
o Can ethics be derived from nature?”
o Can ethics be separated from religion?”
Meta-ethics also examines the theories of reality, i.e. the
underlying assumptions about human nature and personhood as
well as the nature and purpose of society since all of these
influence our ethical views. The importance of these questions
and issues can be readily illustrated. If, for example, we assume
that humans are only physical processes, then it is difficult to
defend free-will and the attendant concepts of moral
responsibility for our acts. Without moral responsibility, it is
hard to make any sense of the concept of ethics or even justice
or social order. Nobody discusses the ethics of cars or sewing
machines. They just do what they do without any attributable
intent. (Of course a few philosophers espouse ‘compatibilism’
according to which “human actions can be caused, but still
free,”7 but ethicists tend to agree with Kant that this is
“wretched subterfuge”8 and “word jugglery.”9) Another example
of a meta-ethical question with enormous importance in today’s
globalized world is the issue of cross-cultural judgments. If we
assert that moral claims cannot have any cross-cultural validity,
i.e. that moral claims are not universal and only culture-
specific, then we cannot pass judgment on — and prohibit —

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
such cultural practices as female genital mutilation, persecution
of minority sexual orientations or persecution of certain ethnic
or religious groups. As we can see, meta-ethics touches on some
of the central issues of personal and collective existence.
Udo Schaefer’s magisterial two volume study Bahá’í Ethics in
Light of Scripture explores both the normative as well as some
of the meta-ethical issues in the Bahá’í Writings. Nonetheless,
despite Schaefer’s excellent work, there remain various
important meta-ethical subjects to be examined and correlated
with other ethical views. Consequently, this paper focuses
exclusively on the meta-ethical principles embedded in the
Writings.
The most obvious reason for doing so is to widen and deepen
our understanding of the ethics found in the Writings by
making us aware of the principles on which these ethics are
based. This, in turn, helps us correlate Bahá’í ethics with other
ethical schools and understand how Bahá’í ethics are similar and
different. Such knowledge creates opportunities for dialogue
with other religions and/or systems of thought in which
knowledge of the Faith can be spread. As we have already
discussed, such knowledge facilitates teaching work, inter-faith
dialogue as well as apologetics.
3: The Religious Foundationalism of Bahá’í Meta-ethics
Any study of Bahá’í meta-ethics must begin with the
realization that Bahá’í epistemology — including ethical
epistemology — exemplifies strong foundationalism, namely, the
view that all knowledge has a
a two-tier structure: some instances of knowledge and
justification are non-inferential or foundational; all
other instances thereof are inferential and non-
foundational in that they derive ultimately from
foundational knowledge or justification ... radical
[strong] foundationalism ... requires that foundational

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
beliefs be certain and able to guarantee the certainty of
the non-foundational beliefs they support.10
In other words, knowledge “rests on a foundation of
indubitable beliefs from which further propositions can be
inferred to produce a superstructure of known truths.”11
The Writings are foundational insofar as the ethical teachings
are not deduced from any preceding human beliefs, premises,
experience or experiments but rather, are based the revelation
of the Manifestations of God. The Manifestations, of course,
are infallible and their teachings are true a priori insofar as they
do not depend on human experience or agreement for their
truthfulness. Rather, because the Manifestations are on a higher
plane of existence, they
surround the essence and qualities of the creatures,
transcend and contain existing realities and understand
all things, therefore, Their knowledge is divine
knowledge, and not acquired — that is to say, it is a holy
bounty; it is a divine revelation. [SAQ 157]
However, this does not mean God’s ethical teachings cannot
be rationally explained a posteriori by gathering evidence to
support them and thereby making them intelligible in different
circumstances and cultures by using the “intelligence and reason
whereby [man] is required to determine the verity of questions
and propositions.” [PUP 181] Such explanations help to make the
ethical teachings more intelligible for humankind; they help
some people accept God’s will; they strengthen our own faith
and facilitate inter-faith dialogue. However, the intrinsic truth
of these teachings does not depend on such evidence. Only the
Manifestation can guarantee that.
The Manifestations have this power because, in Bahá’í
epistemology, higher beings can ‘surround’ or ‘comprehend’
lower ones [PUP 114; SAQ 146] and Manifestations are obviously
higher beings.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Since Their knowledge is a priori it, therefore, is certain. If
these truths depended on empirical research and evaluation, i.e.
if they were dependent on gathered evidence, the revealed
ethical teachings would run into the “induction problem” and,
therefore, could not be certain. With induction from
empirically gathered evidence we can never attain certainty
because there can never be any guarantee that we have collected
all the necessary evidence. Furthermore, because the higher
ontological position of the Manifestations is structural, i.e.
part of the structure of creation, the superiority — and
certainty — of Their knowledge is also a structural aspect of
creation.
This
makes
foundationalism
an
integral
and
inescapable aspect of Bahá’í ethical thinking. Consequently, in
the Bahá’í context, ethical thinking necessarily begins with
deductions from the principles taught by the Manifestations.
We may draw numerous inferences from these foundational
principles but must always ensure our inferences are in harmony
with the divine teachings which are the standard by which to
judge our conclusions.
Because of their foundationalism, the Bahá’í Writings assert
that there are absolute non-relative12 ethical standards, i.e. the
“eternal verities” [PDC 108] as Shoghi Effendi calls them, that are
not mind-dependent, are given by a transcendental non-human
agency, are universal in validity and obligatory on all humans.
Consequently, there are ethical truths that are suited to our
essential human nature both at the personal and collective level
and that correspond to or represent eternal, divine truths.
4. The Three Foundation Stones
Bahá’í meta-ethics are built on three foundation stones:
metaphysics or the theory of reality; philosophical anthropology
or the theory of human nature; and the nature of the
Manifestations. The teachings on these three subjects shape
Bahá’í meta-ethics and, thereby, Bahá’í ethics. At some point or
another, Bahá’í meta-ethics and ethics are justified by reference

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
to one or all of these three foundations. They are the ‘first
premises’ of any deductions about ethics.
Metaphysics, the theory of reality, concerns itself with such
questions as,
o What is the nature and structure of reality?
o What kinds of things exist?
o What is their nature?
o How do they relate to each other?
o Is matter all there is?
o Are there non-material realities?
o What is the ‘origin’ of the universe?
o Does the universe have order?
o Is the universe teleological in nature or is it random?
Bahá’í metaphysics views reality as originating with God in a
process called “emanation” which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá likens to “the
coming forth of the action from the actor, of the writing from
the writer” [SAQ 205] as well as to the “appearance of the rays
from the luminary of the horizons [the sun].” [SAQ 202] These
metaphors are intended to make clear that the action of the
actor, the writer’s writing and the sun’s rays are all absolutely
dependent on their source for their existence and are also
essentially distinct from their source. We might also think of a
magnet and its surrounding magnetic field. Moreover, the
source is not diminished by what it emanates or changes its
condition in any way. [SAQ 205] We say “emanates” to
distinguish it from ‘manifestation’ in which “a single thing [the
source] appears in infinite forms,” [SAQ 294] like a seed
appearing in branches, leaves and flowers. The impact of this
teaching on meta-ethics is clear: because there is an absolute
source of creation Bahá’í meta-ethics must be some form of
cognitivism which implies that there are objective ethical

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
standards that can be known and constitute moral knowledge.
Ethics are not merely subjective.
Furthermore, reality has three parts. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
“The Prophets ... believe that there is the world of God, the
world of the Kingdom, and the world of Creation: three
things.” [SAQ 295] The ultimate Source of everything is the
Divine or supernatural realm which as the absolutely
independent origin of all other things, is unaffected by time,
space and causality and is absolutely unrestricted His actions.
Because no one but Himself can impose limits on Him, the
Divine is absolutely free: “He doeth what He pleaseth, and
ordaineth what He willeth through the power of His
sovereignty.” [ESW 102] However, because God is absolutely free
does not necessarily mean He acts capriciously or without
reason (Shoghi Effendi refers to “the rational God” [WOB 112]),
or does not limit his powers. For example, humans have free will
to make moral choices — which means that God does not use
His power to compel the right choices even though He could.
Obviously, the Writings also assert the existence of non-
material realities, the inherent order and teleological nature of
creation and the dependence of all things on God.
At the other end of the ‘scale’ of being is the natural realm in
which space, time, causality are operative and, therefore,
freedom is limited to the spiritual or supernatural aspects of
human nature: “And among the teachings of His Holiness
Bahá’u’lláh is man’s freedom, that through the ideal power he
should be free and emancipated from the captivity of the world
of nature.”13 The purpose of humans is to free themselves from
the influences of the natural and to actualize their spiritual
potentialities to the fullest extent possible. Human nature is
therefore, teleological, a fact which is reflected in Bahá’í meta-
ethics and the normative ethics that grow out of them. It is also
important to note that human nature has two aspects:
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher
nature and his material or lower nature. In one he

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
approaches God, in the other he lives for the world alone
... In his material aspect he expresses untruth, cruelty
and injustice; all these are the outcome of his lower
nature. The attributes of his Divine nature are shown
forth in love, mercy, kindness, truth and justice, one and
all being expressions of his higher nature... [PT 60]
Humanity’s double-nature which implies that to one degree
or another, we are always in conflict with ourselves, has
tremendous implications for Bahá’í meta-ethics not the least of
which is the endorsement of some forms of natural law theory.
We shall discuss this in detail below.
Rationality is another essential attribute of human nature
which must be taken into consideration in regards to ethics and
meta-ethics.
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the
animal is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one
thing.14
Consequently, all revelations appeal to rationality though to
different
degrees
according
to
humankind’s
stage
of
development in the process of progressive revelation. The
extraordinary importance of the “human spirit” or “rational
soul” is emphasized by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s declaration that “the
spirit of man is the most noble of phenomena ... the meeting
between man and God.” [PUP 239] This assertion shows the
“rational soul” has a special place in phenomenal creation and
even a special spiritual status. From this we may infer that
rationality, as an essential attribute of the soul, holds an exalted
place the gifts bestowed upon humankind. Furthermore, Shoghi
Effendi’s intriguing reference to the “invisible yet rational
God” [WOB 112] also points to a close link between religion and
reason, though it should be remembered that the ‘rationality of
God’ is not assessable to human thought. We know from Shoghi

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Effendi that God is rational, but as humans, we do not
necessarily understand that rationality.
Bridging the “world of God” and the “world of Creation” or
nature is what `Abdu’l-Bahá, calls “the Kingdom” i.e. the realm
of the Manifestations of which Bahá’u’lláh says,
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to
bind the one true God with His creation, and no
resemblance whatever can exist between the transient
and the Eternal, the contingent and the Absolute, He
hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure
and stainless Soul be made manifest in the kingdoms of
earth and heaven. [GWB XXVII, 65]
The Manifestations reflect the creative power of God into the
world, and, therefore have a two-fold station:
The Holy Manifestations of God possess two stations:
one is the physical station, and one the spiritual. In other
words, one station is that of a human being, and one, of
the Divine Reality. If the Manifestations are subjected
to tests, it is in Their human station only, not in the
splendour of Their Divine Reality. [SWAB 55]
As we proceed through this paper we shall return to various
aspects of this three-fold nature of existence which shapes
Bahá’í meta-ethics.
5: Meta-ethics and Religion
One of the major questions in meta-ethics is whether or not
ethics depends on religion. Those philosophers who call
themselves secularists believe ethics is distinct and independent
from revelation and can rely on reason alone.15 Others,
however, such as Hume, believe that ethics is based on feeling
and community agreement rather than reason, though they still
agree that ethics and religion are not intrinsically connected.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
From the foregoing discussions, it is clear that the ultimate
basis for Bahá’í meta-ethics is the supernatural or the
transcendent, i.e. God, Who, unlike creation, is not subject to
change, time, place or causality, Who is absolutely independent
of all other things and Who is absolutely free. The foundations
of ethics are not in the evolving empirical world observed by
the five senses which, by definition, exclude the non-material or
the transcendent as part of its explanations. Such views exclude
both God and personal soul. However, `Abdu’l-Bahá rejects
such total reliance on the empirical world, saying, “the circle
and range of perception by the five senses is exceedingly
limited,”16 since “whatever falleth not under the power of the
senses is either unreal or doubtful.” [TAF 7] In the Bahá’í view,
ethics cannot be separated from religion without being severely
diminished; indeed, ethics depends on religion, as we shall see
below, for its sustainability and coherence. Shoghi Effendi
supports the connection between religion and ethics by writing,
The other statement reported to have been made by Dr.
Einstein to the effect that the ethical behavior of man
‘requires no support from religion’ is incompatible with
the Bahá’í viewpoint which emphatically stresses the fact
that no sound ethics can exist and become effective
unless based on revealed religion. To dissociate ethics
from religion is to render the former not only void of
any firm foundation but without the necessary driving
power.17
It is important to note that Shoghi Effendi does not claim there
no ethics at all without revealed religion but rather that “no
sound ethics can exist and become effective unless based on
revealed religion.” Purely man-made ethics such as those offered
by Kant, Marx and Sartre are possible but they are ineffective
for a variety of reasons that will become apparent through this
paper.
There are at least two reasons why ethics depends on revealed
religion. First, it is difficult to see how ethics divorced from a

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
belief in God can provide consistent and coherent guidance on
the basis of a constantly changing empirical world in which
physical, social, economic, cultural and scientific change is
ubiquitous.
The
resulting
inconsistent,
incoherent
and
frequently clashing ethical views result in either ethical
relativism which claims that ethical rules depend on culture as
well as other factors such as economics; or in skepticism in
which we can never justify any ethical belief; or in extreme
ethical nihilism, i.e. the denial of ethics altogether.18 Each of
these positions undermines its own effectiveness since each
makes internal consistency within itself and unity with others
difficult to achieve. If, for example, we cannot justify ethical
theories such as skepticism or error theory in which all ethical
teachings are false (see below), then societal agreement on moral
rules will be difficult if not impossible. Once seen as ‘arbitrary’
ethical rules have severely diminished power or “effectiveness.”
Second, it is obvious that reason alone cannot establish the
degree of social agreement needed to make an ethical system
effective in a society. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says about the rationalist
philosophers,
They proved things by reason and held firmly to logical
proofs; all their arguments are arguments of reason.
Notwithstanding this, they differed greatly, and their
opinions were contradictory. They even changed their
views. [SAQ 296]
Such lack of consistency undermines the “effectiveness” of
ethics. As already noted in regards to basing ethics on empirical
data alone, basing it on reason alone leads to problems
regarding
internal
consistency
and
consequently,
social
cohesion. This, in turn, undermines its effectiveness in ordering
society by influencing human behavior. This lack of a “firm
foundation” with reason rules out what Shoghi Effendi calls the
“eternal verities on which alone a stable and flourishing
civilization can be ultimately established.” [CF 125]

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
5.1 Attempts to Separate Meta-Ethics and Religion
Immanuel Kant is one of the most famous philosophers to
maintain that ethics do not depend on religion. In his view,
reason alone is a sufficient foundation for ethics.
for its own sake morality does not need religion at all
(whether objectively, as regards willing, or subjectively,
as regards ability [to act]); by virtue of pure practical
reason it is self-sufficient.19
He also writes,
So far as morality is based upon the conception of man
as a free agent who, just because he is free, binds himself
through his reason to unconditioned laws, it stands in
need neither of the idea of another Being over him, for
him to apprehend his duty, nor of an incentive other
than the law itself, for him to do his duty. At least it is
man’s own fault if he is subject to such a need; and if he
is, this need can be relieved through nothing outside
himself.20
Kant takes the view that reason is sufficient to guide us to
correct ethical action. In The Critique of Practical Reason he
finds a role for God as a “regulative principle” but this role,
which makes God ‘useful’ for morality, does not make ethics
depend on religion. Revelation is not necessary as long as
people adhere to rationality in their ethical deliberations.
Religion may be linked to ethics by fortuitous historical
circumstances but there is no necessary, i.e. logical connection
between the two. As we have seen above, from a Bahá’í
viewpoint, the problem with reliance on reason is highly
problematical.
A highly influential modern philosopher who believes ethics
do not rely on religion is the ethicist Peter Singer.21 For Singer,
ethics must be autonomous. One of Singer’s (and co-author

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Hauser’s) proofs is that atheists and agnostics share all the
central moral principles of the major religion. Therefore,
“atheists and agnostics do not believe less morally than religious
believers.”22 In short, ‘Who needs religion?’ Their argument has
little to recommend it. No agnostics and atheists have ever lived
in a society without religion as the basis for morals.
Consequently, they internalized these religious teachings as
young children and young adults and retained them as valuable
even when they rejected the religious foundations. Having
absorbed these teachings from their childhood and seeing them
re-enforced in their dealings with other adults explains why the
seeming lack of religion does not affect their moral behavior:
the ethical teachings of religion have simply become part of
their social and mental makeup. It is highly improbable that
agnostics and atheists everywhere invented their own moralities
which, for the most part, just happened to coincide with
society’s highest religious teachings.
In seeking to disengage religion from ethics Singer and
Hauser also draw attention to the history of religious violence.
Religion is so violent that ethics cannot be — or should not be
— associated with it. Any association with religion undermines
the credibility of ethics. This argument is highly problematic.
First, it does not follow that because all wars in the past were
fought by people with religion that the wars were about
religion. Religious people can and have fought wars for
resources necessary for survival; for “lebensraum” and other
geographic advantages; or for strategic political reasons, or
even just ‘glory.’ The fact that the combatants were also
religious is accidental or fortuitous and not essential to the war
itself.23 Indeed, the number of wars fought specifically over
religion is quite small in the five thousand years of recorded
warfare. For example, very few if any wars in the ancient world
were fought over religion. Even the wars presented in the Old
Testament were not simply religious wars: they were wars about
land, i.e. “lebensraum” and security against hostile tribes.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
Yahweh’s role in the Hebrew victories was essential but the wars
were not primarily about belief in Yahweh.
Singer and Hauser also try to disengage ethics from religion
by stating that moral rules are inherited responses from our
evolutionary past. In other words, morality has an evolutionary
not religious basis; humans are provided with a “moral faculty
that guides our intuitive judgments of right and wrong”24 on the
basis of what has contributed to survival in the past. However,
the most obvious question is whether biologically-based
responses or instincts are ‘ethics.’ Instincts are automatic
responses, i.e. they do not involve intentions — and the whole
purpose of ethics is to train or reform our intentions. The
instinct to eat is not an ethical decision — but the issue of when
we eat, and what and how much can be ethical issues.
Nevertheless, all of these are guided by intentions. Intentions do
not affect a mother’s biological drive to eat but they do affect
her decision to give her food to her child. In effect, the
‘evolutionary past’ theory of ethics is not really about ethics at
all because it leaves out the issue of ‘intention’ without which
any discussion about ethics is moot.
Two giants of twentieth century philosophy, A.J. Ayer and
Bertrand Russell, reject the view that ethics depends on religion.
Ayer states,
I suspect that the widespread assumption that religious
belief is necessary for the maintenance of moral
standards arises not so much from any assessment of the
empirical evidence as from a tacit or explicit acceptance
of the proposition that if there is no God there is no
reason to be moral.25
This, of course, was Dostoyevsky’s point when Ivan Karamzov
says, “If God does not exist, everything is permitted.”26 (This is
the most common paraphrase of the statement.) Ayer adds that
in the last analysis, “Moral standards can never be justified

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
merely by an appeal to authority.”27 This leaves us with the
question of how to justify moral laws.
Bertrand Russell builds his opposition to any connection
between ethics and religion on the principle that humans should
be autonomous and not subservient to any God or divine
revelation. Following divine commands is unworthy of us. He
pursues what we might call ‘the argument from autonomy’ and
even ‘the argument from pride.’ He writes,
In this lies Man’s true freedom: in determination to
worship only the God created by our own love for the
good, to respect only the heaven which inspires the
insight of our best moments.28
There is no intellectual argument here; rather, there is a ringing
declaration of independence and even a suggestion of defiance
against the very idea of a ‘God’ who is not of our manufacture.
Only in this way can humans retain autonomy in their ethical
lives. The underlying logical problem with Russell’s view is that
we cannot identify which of the man-made ‘Gods’ is really the
best and most inspirational since there is no non-human,
objective standard by which to judge. Further, from a Bahá’í
viewpoint, Russell’s view that we become the creators of God
means that declare ourselves God’s equals or superiors and,
thereby, “join partners” with Him, something which Bahá’u’lláh
explicitly forbids: “Beware, beware, lest thou be led to join
partners with the Lord, thy God.” [GWB XCIV, 192]
Elsewhere he elaborates,
Science can teach us, and I think our own hearts can
teach us, no longer to look round for imaginary
supports, no longer to invent allies in the sky but rather
to look to our own efforts.29
Here, too, Russell insists on human autonomy based on
science, “our own hearts” and “our own efforts.” But, of

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
course, there are problems with this view as we shall see shortly.
The insufficiency of “our own efforts” is precisely one of the
reasons why ethics need a religious foundation. The same may
be said about reliance on “our own hearts.” On this issues
`Abdu’l-Bahá:
Inspirations are the promptings or susceptibilities of the
human heart. The promptings of the heart are sometimes
satanic. How are we to differentiate them? How are we
to tell whether a given statement is an inspiration and
prompting of the heart through the merciful assistance
or through the satanic agency? [PUP 254]
Russell has no answer for this difficult challenge — yet, that is
precisely the question that needs to be answered for the heart to
be a trustworthy source of ethics and meta-ethics.
Relying on science also has insurmountable difficulties as
seen which we shall explore in one of the most recent efforts to
make science the basis of ethics, Sam Harris’s The Moral
Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values.
According to Harris,
science can, in principle, help us understand what we
should do and should want — and, therefore, what other
people should do and want in order to live the best lives
possible.30
Difficulties arise as soon as we ask how science can do this. In
the first place the scientific method, only studies phenomena
that
o are physical/material
o are susceptible to empirical direct or indirect observation
by the humans senses or instruments
o are measurable or quantifiable
o are results of repeatable experiments or observations

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
o are observer independent
o are falsifiable, i.e. disprovable by observation and/or
experiment
This brings us to a simple question: ‘Can we solve moral
questions this way?’ How, for example, can we identify what we
“should want” as Harris claims? The scientific method is not
designed to deal with obligations, duties, prohibitions, good,
evil and other values.
Take, for example, the morality of feeding starving children.
We can measure necessary calorie and protein intakes; we can
measure results in survival rates, we can quantify all this
scientific data — but we can never use this method to prove that
we are morally obligated to feed these children. Moral
evaluations are not scientifically testable because moral values
are not physical, measurable, physically observable, observer
independent, objective or disprovable.’ No coroner’s report
will say that certain physical evidence shows the moral evil of
this death. The fact that they are starving is an empirical fact
but there is nothing in this fact itself that obligates us to do
anything for them. Such obligations must come from elsewhere
— but the question is, where? Harris frequently refers to brain-
scans — which not actually tell us which human brain activity is
good or evil. A positive scan may be correlated with acts of
kindness — in a Mother Teresa — or with acts of terror — in Dr.
Josef Mengele. The scan itself shows no preference. The
inescapable conclusion is that moral values are simply not
proper scientific objects, i.e. they are not suited to discovery or
exploration by the scientific method. In sum, there is no
intrinsic and necessary connection between ethics and science.
Curiously enough Harris admits as much: “Science cannot tell
us why, scientifically, we should value health.”31 In effect, he
concedes that science has nothing to say about moral valuations
or obligations and, thereby, he undermines his own thesis. If
“scientifically” speaking there is no reason to value something
as self-evidently important as health, then the there is not much

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
hope of building an ethical system — with all its complex
questions — on science alone. Because science and the scientific
method are irrelevant to ethical questions, it is impossible to
base meta-ethical principles and ethical rules on them.
To separate ethics from religion, Harris also tries to set aside
the ‘is-ought’ problem, claiming it as “another dismal product
of Abrahamic religion.”32 The modern formulation of this
difficulty came from David Hume who objected to the way
some moral treatises moved from an ‘is’ or ‘is not,’ i.e. from a
matter of fact to an ‘ought’ or ‘ought’ not, i.e. from an
empirical fact to a moral prescription.33 According to Hume —
and numerous other philosophers since then — a description of
facts cannot logically lead to moral prescriptions obligating us
to accept certain acts as ‘good.’ Violating the ‘is-ought’
distinction is precisely the error of social Darwinism which
believes that because we observe a struggle for existence in
nature, our society, which is embedded in nature, ought to be
modeled on this struggle. Yet this supposed obligation to
imitate the struggle for existence is not inherent in the facts
themselves; rather, it is something we bring or attach to the
facts externally.
According to Harris, once the ‘is-ought’ distinction is
removed, science can become a basis of value. In an effort to
show the intimate connection between ‘is’ and ‘ought’ or facts
and values, he says that even a truth-claim about the
composition of water appeals “to the values of empiricism and
logic.”34 This argument has two problems. First, if, as Harris
claims, there is no real distinction between fact and value or ‘is’
and ‘ought,’ then the values must be inherent in the facts i.e.
they must be empirically discoverable and meet the criteria of
being proper objects of scientific study. Values are self-
evidently not scientific insofar as they are non-physical and
cannot be quantified, are not material or physical, are not
objective
and
cannot
be
falsified
or
verified
by
experimentation. In short, there is no reason to believe in
necessary, intrinsic, scientific or logical connections between

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
facts and values. It is we who make the decision to connect
them, i.e. it is our judgment, externally applied, that gives them
value and nothing else. Hume’s ‘is-ought’ distinction is valid —
at least for all non-theistic metaphysics and ontologies.
Second, the scientific or epistemological value assigned by
Harris to “empiricism and logic” is obviously a different kind
of value from the moral values discussed in meta-ethics and
ethics which concern judgments of right and wrong, good and
evil, as well as obligations and permissibility. The decision to
value scientifically based knowledge bears no significance
resemblance to such issues as child abuse or helping the poor to
alleviate their condition. Harris is comparing apples and
oranges. In what is really a desperate attempt to support his
case about against the ‘is-ought’ disjunction, he quotes Dennett
— a fellow believer in basing meta-ethics on science — who
writes, “If ‘ought’ cannot be derived from ‘is,’ just what can it
be derived from?”35
Dennett’s question is exactly the heart of the problem for
empiricists — if the empirical facts of nature cannot logically
serve as the foundation of morals, what can?
6. Why Meta-ethics Needs a Religious Foundation
There are at least four major problems with any attempt to
establish a strictly empirical meta-ethics. The first of these is the
ubiquitous flux of creation. This leads to the old platonic
question applied to meta-ethical principles and the resulting
ethics: how can we actually know anything in a world that is
totally unstable? Meta-ethical principles must lead us to ethical
decisions that are not absolutely time-bound but are applicable
consistently throughout the passage of time though it may
appear in various external forms. The “golden rule,” for
example, has a variety of expressions, but the underlying
principle remains the same. Such constancy or stability, such
“eternal verities on which alone a stable and flourishing
civilization can be ultimately established,” [CF 125] are necessary

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
lest humans become ethically confused and lose their sense of
value, meaning and purpose and possibly even the wish and/or
will to be ethical. Therefore, we must conclude that ethical
systems which accept the limits of materialism or empiricism are
inherently deficient, i.e. incomplete and not adequately
grounded precisely because they cannot provide ethical
stability.
The second reason why divorcing ethics from religion is
problematical concerns the crucial meta-ethical is issue of
authority which in turn affects the “necessary driving power”36
of a civilization. Without rational and logically coherent
answers to questions of authority, no ethical system can be
securely grounded. There are two aspects to the authority issue
— legitimacy and power. Both are needed, and, as the following
discussion shall make clear, no empirical source can supply
them.
The first aspect of authority concerns ‘legitimacy,’ which
deals with the questions, ‘Who — if anyone — has the legitimacy
or the right to lay down moral principles and precepts for the
human race? Who or what — if anything — has the knowledge,
understanding and goodness necessary to legitimize a demand
for obedience? Who — or what — is inherently entitled to make
obedience a condition for attaining ‘rightness,’ or true value
and appropriate worth as a human being?’ It is virtually self-
evident that no human and no collection of human beings
inherently possess such legitimacy by virtue of their human
nature. The reasons are obvious: humans are fallible, are fickle,
have personal interests, lack absolute independence from all
things, i.e. are susceptible to outside influence, interference and
coercion. Thus, humans cannot guarantee objectivity and
justice. They also lack the unlimited knowledge needed to
dispense perfect justice, understanding and compassion.
Another problem is that strictly empirical knowledge gives no
evidence to establish one definitive standard by which to judge
various ethical claims. On strictly empirical bases, the only way
to establish a decisive standard of ethics is by social or political

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
convention, or by force. However, this is not the ethical
legitimacy we seek but rather political, social or legal
legitimacy. God, on the other hand, is not only unaffected by
the aforementioned deficiencies, but He is also the actual maker
of the world and the nature of everything in it. Given His
knowledge, it is difficult to imagine who else could have
genuine ethical legitimacy since His knowledge is the only
reliable guide to ‘the good.’
The second aspect of authority is the question of power.
Without legitimacy, power is tyranny and forceful enslavement
but without power, legitimacy remains purely theoretical, i.e.
impotent. Thus, to see how legitimacy is actually put into
practice we must ask ‘Who — if anyone — has the power
necessary to enable people to follow these rules despite their
short-comings and weaknesses?’ ‘Who — if anyone — has the
power to impose His will and His ethical judgments on
humankind? Who — if anyone — can impose both obligations or
laws and consequences for committed or omitted acts? Here,
too, theistic and non-theistic meta-ethical systems part company
since the former believe that only God can adequately fulfill
that role. God has the power, i.e. is omnipotent and has the
legitimacy to rule humankind. God-substitutes such as
governments, priesthoods or ideologies lack this power because
they are subject to the vicissitudes of ubiquitous change and
they lack the legitimacy and the power to make their ethical
requirements effective. Inherent human limitations prevent this.
The third aspect of authority is ‘universality.’ Here, the most
fundamental question is, ‘Is there such a thing as a universal
human nature?’ Answering this will tell us whether the limits of
authority are defined by time, culture, economics or political
ideology.
The
Bahá’í
Writings
answer
this
question
affirmatively. Moreover, they show that a universal ethical
standard follows from a universal human nature. One of their
key principles is the essential oneness of humankind:

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
When we observe the human world, we find various
collective expressions of unity therein. For instance,
man is distinguished from the animal by his degree, or
kingdom. This comprehensive distinction includes all the
posterity of Adam and constitutes one great household
or human family, which may be considered the
fundamental or physical unity of mankind.37
God has created human nature as it is, and the teaching of the
oneness of humankind affirms that this nature is universal even
though different cultures may actualize different aspects at
different times. The teaching of the oneness of humankind
starts with the “physical unity of mankind.” Furthermore, all
humans possess a “human spirit which distinguishes man from
the animal [this] is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one thing.” [SAQ
208] Regardless of culture, time, place or circumstance, all
people share one human nature because they have a rational
soul. We also share a higher, spiritual nature and a lower animal
nature which the higher nature must control. [SAQ 118] In
addition, we all posses “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 339]
which must be cultivated in order to make spiritual progress
possible. Since there is a universal human nature, then it
logically follows that a universal ethic is possible, i.e. at least
some ethical rules apply to everyone at all times and in all
places. Since God is the creator of human nature, no one is
better qualified than God to establish what this ethic is.
Consequently, there are ethical standards valid across all
cultures, places, times and circumstances and that cross-cultural
moral judgments are possible. Shoghi Effendi writes,
He [Bahá’u’lláh] insists on the unqualified recognition
of the unity of their purpose, restates the eternal verities
they enshrine, coordinates their functions, distinguishes
the essential and the authentic from the nonessential and
spurious in their teachings, separates the God-given
truths from the priest-prompted superstitions, and on

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
this as a basis proclaims the possibility, and even
prophecies the inevitability, of their unification, and the
consummation of their highest hopes.38
The core of this statement is that Bahá’u’lláh “restate[d] the
eternal verities” which means (1) that certain truths — including
ethical truths — are not bound to one time and (2) that these
“verities” which Bahá’u’lláh “restated” are the same as those
taught by previous Manifestations in other times and places. In
effect, Shoghi Effendi confirms a meta-ethical perennialism for
those morals that are not “priest-prompted superstitions” and
“nonessential and spurious.” His dismissive description of those
religious teachings that deviate from the “eternal verities”
clearly de-legitimates them. The underlying assumption is that
the “eternal verities” are suited to a universal human nature and
what is best therein. This suggests an important conclusion:
ethical relativism does not apply to the “eternal verities” or
“fundamental verities”39 but it applies to the superstructural
cultural adaptations. The former are universal and the latter are
particular.
It is also important to ask, ‘Can a man-made ethical system
claim to be universally valid for all human beings?’ On the basis
of the foregoing arguments, the answer is clearly negative: man-
made ethical systems lack authority in the form of legitimacy;
authority in the form of power and authority in the form of
universality.
The latter is inescapably deficient in this regard is because
humans only have access to incomplete knowledge conditioned
by time, location and circumstances, and, therefore, cannot,
even in principle, have the insight into human nature to make
their knowledge universal. This limitation is recognized by all
systems of meta-ethics and is the source of much debate and
controversy. Various types of meta-ethical skepticism and
nihilism find their basis here.40 The fact that this deficiency still
causes so much debate suggests that emphatic denials to the
contrary, theistic meta-ethics cannot just be ignored.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
6.1: Contrary Views About Authority and Universality
Non-theistic meta-ethical systems, of course, reject God and
basically set the question of God’s authority aside as
meaningless, irrelevant or insoluble. Some reject God not on
metaphysical grounds but rather, on principle: His very
existence as Creator undermines human freedom and with it, the
very foundation of morality. One such is Jean-Paul Sartre who
argues that if God is the Creator of all things, then our essence
precedes our existence. Humans are compared to paper dolls
that God cuts out.41 This means that human nature or essence is
pre-given by God, and, consequently, we are not truly free to
make or “define”42 ourselves by means of our own ethical
choices. Hence Sartre adopts his “postulatory atheism”43 to
safeguard absolute human freedom. He states, “if God does not
exist then there is at least one being in whom existence precedes
essence,”44 i.e. one being who makes himself by his own actions.
Sartre believes that our choices are only legitimate for
ourselves, have no genuine power over others and are universal
only insofar as they exemplify everyone’s right to choose for
themselves. Our specific personal moral rules and choices apply
only to ourselves. In short, the problems of authority and
universality are simply denied beyond the individual sphere.
Denying authority i.e. legitimacy, power and universality
beyond the individual obviously creates problems in regards to
the social aspects of human existence. No society can exist with
out at least some minimal universal ethical standards applicable
to all. In a constitutional democracy, there is, of course, some
room for individual diversity in ethics. Among them are the
notoriously hard issues of abortion and physician assisted
suicide as well as simple issues like tipping and offering bus
seats to pregnant ladies. However, for society to function
effectively, there must be certain fundamental ethical
injunctions that everyone is expected to obey: honesty in
regards to income tax and other legitimate financial obligations;
respect for the sanctity of life and other people’s bodies as well

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
as truthfulness in our dealings with others. Without general
adherence to such rules, moral and legal anarchy will result. The
problem with Sartre is the question of who or what will have
this authority. If the whole point of his existentialism is that we
must make ourselves by our own ethical choices and standards,
then there is no legitimate rule that can be applied to everyone.
The closest Sartre comes to such a universal rule is the
requirement that we must all live in “good faith” i.e. be true to
ourselves, ideas and feelings — but this does not solve the
authority problem. Many evil things have been done in “good
faith.” Besides, who arbitrates what “good faith” is for each
person? In the last analysis, there is simply no room for a
legitimate and universal authority in Sartre’s philosophy which
fails to recognize that we are not only individuals choosing for
ourselves alone but individuals whose identity and well-being is
not entirely in our own hands. The challenge for Sartre’s
existentialism is how to maintain a society in which people
refuse to be defined by anything except their own choices.
Sartre’s later turn to Marxism — generally regarded as poorly
integrated with his existentialism — was an attempt to solve this
problem.
Communism is probably the most wide-spread man-made
meta-ethic in human history even though, since the fall of
Communism in Eastern Europe and Russia, and its gradual
abandonment in China, it is now in eclipse as a practical basis
of government and society. The foundation of Marxist meta-
ethics is the principle that ethics are no more than the “idealistic
superstructure”45 that arises from the relations of material
production. As Marx and Engels say,
The
production
of
ideas,
of
conceptions,
of
consciousness, is at first directly interwoven with the
material activity and the material intercourse of men, the
language of real life. Conceiving, thinking, the mental
intercourse of men, appear at this stage as the direct
efflux of their material behaviour. The same applies to

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
mental production as expressed in the language of
politics, laws, morality, religion, metaphysics, etc. of a
people. Men are the producers of their conceptions,
ideas, etc. — real, active men, as they are conditioned by
a definite development of their productive forces and of
the intercourse corresponding to these, up to its furthest
forms.46
In other words, ethical beliefs simply reflect the relations of
production, i.e. the relations all people must enter to survive in
a given economic system, be it slavery, feudalism, capitalism or
Communism. These relations shape our consciousness and with it
our meta-ethical and ethical views. These views are not grounded
in any transcendental power; consequently, there is no
transcendental or divine basis for the legitimacy, power and uni-
versality of any ethical rules. The aim of Marxist philosophy is
to explain all the different theoretical products and
forms of consciousness, religion, philosophy, ethics, etc.
etc. and trace their origins and growth from that
[material] basis.47
Materialist explanations are the only way to free people from
being enslaved by their masters who use religious beliefs —
“render unto Caesar what is Caesar’s”48 — to oppress them, or
better yet, make them willingly subservient. With materialist
explanations the spell of religion will be broken. The
Communist ethics will prevail and humans shall live in a society
that meets their true needs.
In this struggle, the most advanced section of the proletariat
is the communist movement “which pushes forward all the
others”49 and which has
over the great mass of the proletariat the advantage of
clearly understanding the line of march, the conditions,
and the ultimate general results of the proletarian
movement.50

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In other words, the Communist movement — and later, in
Marxist-Leninism and Marxist-Maoism, the Communist Party —
has special insight about “the ultimate general results of the
proletarian movement,” i.e. the future result of the class
struggle and its social consequences. Such knowledge may be
fairly described as ‘extra-empirical.’ This ‘extra-empirical’
knowledge of the ultimate results of the revolution and the “line
of march” by which it will get there is Marxism’s way of
providing legitimacy to the decisions of the communist
movement or party. Like God, their decisions about everything
from strategy to ethics are legitimated by their superior insight.
The problem for Marxism on this issue is that its empiricist
materialism notwithstanding, there is more than a ‘touch of the
transcendental’ in its basis for legitimacy. It seems to recognize
— albeit it tentatively — that ethical legitimacy requires an
‘extra-empirical’
foundation.
Without
such
a
special
foundation, its claim to be the ‘vanguard’ (later spelled out
more fully by Lenin51) that “pushes forward all others”52 is open
to counter-claims by political rivals.
It seems clear that to establish its special legitimacy for
leadership — including moral leadership — Communism puts the
movement, or later, the Party, into the place of God and the
Manifestations. Somebody or something has got to be special to
determine what is or is not ethical. In Communism, morality is
based on whatever the Party decrees — it decides what is good
and bad. This shows that, in the case of Marxism at least, the
effort to build ethics on a purely empirical basis fails.
Consequently, the example of Marxism re-affirms — albeit by
contrast — that meta-ethical principles and the ethical
consequences thereof cannot be purely empirical. God, i.e. a
final ‘extra-empirical’ or transcendental foundation for ethics is
unavoidable.
In addition to undermining its own self-portrayal as strictly
empirical, Marxism has a problem with ethical consistency. If
the same act can be good or evil depending on what the
movement or the Party decides is best for the struggle against

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
the ruling classes, how can there be any ethical knowledge, how
can a society and personal relations function from one day,
week or year to the next? Under such circumstances, it is simply
impossible for anyone to know right from wrong and good
from evil. In fact, such a view inevitably undermines having
ethical standards at all and encourages mere adaptation to the
latest pronouncements. This cannot be remedied by turning to
the underlying meta-ethical principle according to which what is
moral is whatever furthers the struggle against the ruling class.
That meta-ethical principle is precisely the source of the
problem. This view stands in sharp contrast to the Bahá’í ethical
teaching that the foundation of religious truth are the
unchanging “eternal verities” [PDC 108] whose expression and
practice may vary from culture to culture or epoch to epoch
but whose core principles remain the same. This balances
adaptation to fluid situations with stability.
6.2: Kant and the Authority Problem
Unlike Sartre, Kant is not blind to the authority problem.
Kant is fully aware of how important it is. That is why in The
Critique of Practical Reason, Kant tries to remedy this problem
in a way that actually (but inadvertently) supports the Writings
by an appeal to a ‘postulatory theism.’ Since Kant denied we
could prove God’s existence rationally and, therefore, we must
postulate or assume His existence if we are to attain the
“summum bonum” i.e. the greatest good for humankind.
According to Kant,
the supreme cause of nature, which must be presupposed
as a condition of the summum bonum is a being which is
the cause of nature by intelligence and will, consequently
its author, that is God ... Therefore, the summum bonum
is possible in the world only on the supposition of a
Supreme Being having a causality corresponding to
moral character ... the supreme cause of nature, which
must be presupposed as a condition of the summum

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
bonum is a being which is the cause of nature by
intelligence and will, consequently its author, that is
God. It follows that the postulate of the possibility of
the highest derived good (the best world) is likewise the
postulate of the reality of a highest original good, that is
to say, of the existence of God. Now it was seen to be a
duty for us to promote the summum bonum ... and as
this is possible only on condition of the existence of
God, it inseparably connects the supposition of this with
duty; that is, it is morally necessary to assume the
existence of God.53
Kant states that a morally good life is possible only on the
“presupposition” of a “Supreme Being” Who has the legitimacy
and the power to be the “supreme cause of nature” and Who
also acts morally and is the pre-condition for our moral action.
Kant claims that a “postulatory theism” is needed to lead a good
life. God — even if He is merely “postulatory” — is necessary
for ethical principles to have authority, i.e. legitimacy and
power/effectiveness and universality. He recognizes that a
viable meta-ethics cannot be built on strictly empirical
principles because empiricism offers no way to identify a
definitive standard by which to judge competing ethical claims.
Without such a definitive standard, all meta-ethical principles
and ethical viewpoints are, in effect, equal, i.e. none can be
proven or disproven by empirical appeals alone. Only politics,
social customs or force can establish one claim over another,
but this, of course, only grounds political, not ethical or
intellectual, legitimacy. As we saw previously, Marxism tried to
solve the same by giving the Party ‘extra-empirical’ insight and
understanding and, thereby, ethical legitimacy and power.
Interestingly
enough,
Kant
criticizes
various
Greek
philosophers for thinking the ‘greatest good’ could be achieved
strictly by human will and intelligence and without an appeal to
God:

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
From this deduction it is now intelligible why the Greek
schools could never attain the solution of their problem
of the practical possibility of the summum bonum,
because they made the rule of the use which the will of
man makes of his freedom the sole and sufficient ground
of this possibility, thinking that they had no need for
that purpose of the existence of God.54
Clearly, like the Bahá’í Writings, Kant recognizes that a
purely empirical and humanistic ethic is theoretically and
practically untenable. In other words, Kant adopts a deistic
meta-ethical foundation for his ethical thinking at least as far as
practical reason is concerned. On this matter, he is compatible
with the Bahá’í Writings.
7. Divine Command Ethics and the Euthyphro Dilemma
The foregoing discussion makes it abundantly clear that the
Bahá’í Writings exemplify what is called the “divine command
theory of moral goodness,”55 i.e. a meta-ethical theory in which
God or a transcendent power is the origin and foundation of
moral truth which may be revealed through special individuals
and/or through nature and history. Furthermore,
[w]hat divine command theory holds is that God’s will is
necessary and sufficient in determining the content of
morality — it actually defines it [morality]. Thus, for an
act to be “right” it is both necessary and sufficient that
the act be performed in compliance with God’s will ...
God’s will is sufficient in that all that is required for an
act to be “right” is that God wills it is right.56
God’s will is sufficient for ethical “rightness” because as we
have seen above, only God as the Creator of all things has the
capacity and the legitimacy to legislate for the benefit of His
creation. As we shall see below, divine command meta-ethics
also commit the Writings to moral realism, a meta-ethical

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
theory according to which “our moral judgments can be true or
false”57 This connects the Writings with other realist meta-
ethical theories such as Platonism or Thomism. God’s will is not
a Platonic Idea but it is equally as real. From this it follows that
a realist meta-ethics precludes ethical relativism since an
absolute
ethical
standard
exists
and,
through
God’s
Manifestations, can be known by mankind.
Divine command meta-ethics faces several challenges, the
most famous of which is the Euthyphro Dilemma.58 In Plato’s
dialogue, Euthyphro, Socrates asks,
The point which I should first wish to understand is
whether the pious or holy is beloved by the gods because
it is holy, or holy because it is beloved of the gods.59
Does God approve certain actions because they are good, or are
certain things good because God approves them? This leads to
the two horns of the Euthyphro dilemma. On one hand, if God
approves them because they are good, then they are good prior
to or without God’s approval, i.e. their goodness is independent
of God. This negates God’s universal sovereignty. On the other
hand, if actions are good because God approves them then
moral good is simply a matter of God’s arbitrary approval. This
starts a vicious circle: if God’s approval is not arbitrary but
based on inherent goodness then this goodness is independent of
God, but if this goodness is not independent of God, then His
approval is arbitrary. Furthermore, if God is omnipotent, any
command — or its opposite — could become good or true
simply because God says so. This — so it is claimed —
undermines the importance of reason in ethics, gives ethics an
arbitrary foundation and raises questions about why we are
obligated to obey such arbitrary selections.
The Bahá’í Writings’ adherence to divine command theory is
beyond question. They make it clear that there are no external
constraints on God’s absolute will in the oft repeated claim that
of “He doeth what He willeth, and ordaineth what He pleaseth.”

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
[ESW 67] There can be no clearer expression of the consequences
of meta-ethical divine command theory than the following:
Shouldst Thou [God] regard him who hath broken the
fast as one who hath observed it, such a man would be
reckoned among them who from eternity had been
keeping the fast. And shouldst Thou decree that he who
hath observed the fast hath broken it, that person would
be numbered with such as have caused the Robe of Thy
Revelation to be stained with dust. [PM 67]
In the words of Christian philosophers, J.P. Moreland and
William Lane Craig, “God could have willed that cruelty be
good and love evil and we should be obliged to hate others and
seek to do them harm.”60 Of course, the fact that He could have
does not mean that He has or would. These are simply
statements about God’s power, not about His actions or
intentions.
The Euthyphro Dilemma claims that either God has this
power and is an omnipotent and arbitrary tyrant or He does not
and, therefore is not omnipotent. In neither case is He worthy
of worship. The underlying assumption is that we should no
worship a tyrant or a God Who is not omnipotent.
There are at least three problems with the Euthyphro
Dilemma. First and most obvious is the logical category mistake
which confuses and conflates God — the universal creator —
with a human tyrant. The ‘tyranny of God is not the same kind
of thing as the ‘tyranny’ of a human dictator. Decrees given by
the omnipotent and omniscient creator of the universe Who
knows all possible outcomes of all possible alternatives cannot
be compared with decrees by a tyrant who lacks such knowledge
and, therefore, cannot foresee the results of his orders. A
tyrant’s lack of knowledge undermines his legitimacy and,
thereby, his right to claim absolute power. Furthermore, if we
add God’s inherent goodness to our description of God, the
problem is even more apparent. Calling God a “tyrant” because

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
He insists on arranging His creation for the maximum goodness
is an arbitrary misuse of the word “tyrant” which is usually
defined as a ruler who uses his power in a “cruel and unfair
way.”61 This is not the God mentioned by the Manifestations.
Furthermore, there is another category mistake insofar as
God cannot be ‘measured’ or judged by the same standard as
His creations. Given His omniscience, what appears as caprice
to our lesser knowledge may be nothing less than reasons we
cannot comprehend. To conclude God has no reasons, i.e. His
choice is arbitrary is unwarranted just because we humans do
not know the reasons. After all He knows all the possibilities
and all their outcomes which is a knowledge no contingent
being has.
Second, if God is the Creator of all things, there simply are
no objects that are inherently good independently of God.
Whatever good they have is from God. Because there are no
things that exist and are good independently of God, there are
no objects that can compel God’s choice in the way outlined by
the Euthyphro Dilemma. Thus, from a Bahá’í perspective, the
Euthyphro Dilemma is a pseudo-dilemma perhaps based on
confusing God as the universal Creator and a pagan ‘god’ who is
not a universal creator and therefore can be confronted by
something he did not create. The Euthyphro Dilemma does not
apply to God as the Bahá’í Writings understand Him.
Of course, if God did not make all things including their
natures, then He is not God — at least as the Bahá’í Writings
understand Him — which makes the Euthyphro Dilemma
irrelevant to Bahá’í philosophy and Christian, Jewish and
Muslim philosophy as well. The Euthyphro Dilemma and the
various revelations are discussing two different concepts of
God. In the last analysis, it is a pseudo-dilemma based on
ambiguous usage of the term ‘God.’

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
7.1 Ideal Observer Theory (IOT)
The divine command theory bears significance resemblances
to a contemporary meta-ethical theory known as ideal observer
theory.62 In fact, one might say that the IOT is, in its basic
position, a secularized version of divine command theory. Some
ethicists such as Shelly Kagan recognize this, saying,
Thus, when presented in theological terms, the ideal
observer theory becomes the divine command theory:
valid moral rules are valid by virtue of the fact that God
commands them.63
The convergence of the two meta-ethical theories is evident in
the following description:
an ideal observer must be omniscient; omnipercipient,
i.e. having the ability to imagine vividly any possible
events or states of affairs, including the experiences and
subjective states of others; disinterested, i.e. having no
interest or desires that involve essential reference to any
particular
individuals
or
things;
dispassionate;
consistent; and otherwise a “normal” human being.64
True ethical propositions, i.e. propositions that are morally
legitimate, authoritative and universal can be made by an
observer who fits these criteria and is perfectly rational and has
all the necessary information.
Ideal Observer Theory asserts that right and wrong are
determined by an ideal observer’s reaction to a given
act. That is, any act X is morally permissible if an ideal
observer would approve of X; conversely, any act Y is
morally blameworthy if an ideal observer would
disapprove of Y.65
Of course, for the IOT in its modern secular form as revived
by Roderick Firth, God is not the ideal observer, nor need He

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
be. The capacity to make such ideal judgments can be attained
by asking ourselves how such an ideal being would judge or by
imagining ourselves in the ideal observer’s position. This
requires mental discipline but it is not impossible. So the IOT
claims. From a Bahá’í perspective, however, there is no way for
humans to transcend our inherent limitations. No human can
possibly meet the standards laid out by Firth and others —
omnipercipience, omniscience, pure dispassionate objectivity
and so on. If making absolutely just ethical judgments requires
these attributes, then IOT itself demonstrates the need for God
and the divine command theory. Anything less will merely result
in endless clashes of opinions among less than ideal observers.
This is, of course, precisely what we wish to avoid since it
undermines the entire Bahá’í mission of emphasizing the
oneness of humankind and the unification of humanity into one
global commonwealth.
7.2: Weak Compatibilism: A Modern Version of Natural Law
Meta-Ethics
The Bahá’í Writings harmonize with a contemporary
variation
of
natural
law
theory
known
as
“weak
compatibilism”66 which holds that
God would not create a natural or moral order that is
opposed to the divine or a human reason that is
contradicted by revelation. Yet even though they are not
in conflict, revelation ... may tell us more than reason is
able to disclose ... Although this content does not
contradict reason, it does go beyond it.67
In other words, God would not create a world in which His
reason, mankind’s reason, the order of nature and revelation are
out of harmony or in conflict with one another. There is no
intrinsic conflict between them and whatever conflicts arise are
problems with human perception and understanding. Of course,
the inherent limits of human reason prevent it from grasping

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1
God’s reasoning which transcends and exceeds ours. However,
the fact that we cannot follow God’s reasoning does not mean it
does not exist. Science itself suggests this. Everything in nature
is orderly and follows rules/laws that can be understood by
human reasoning. If such were not the case, science would be
impossible. Consequently, since reason is universally evident in
nature, there are no grounds to suppose that God’s reason
‘suddenly stops’ just because it reaches a point at which our
understanding ends.
At this point a note of clarification is necessary. In regards
to reason, weak compatibilism represents what I have called
“moderate rationalism” in several previous papers.68 Moderate
rationalism contrasts with ‘extreme’ rationalism which asserts
that only rational/logical knowledge and empirical knowledge
are true knowledge. It also contrasts with irrationalism which
says that reason cannot give us any true knowledge, a position
held by Nietzsche and the postmodernists. Moderate rationalism
lies between these two extremes claiming that reason can give us
knowledge up to a point, but after that point it must be
augmented by revelation or the guidance of the “spirit of faith.”
Reason and revelation are not intrinsically in conflict; there are
truths that cannot be fully articulated by human reason because
the divine reason transcends the human mind. Revelation,
therefore, “may tell us more than reason is able to disclose.”
Both the Bahá’í Writings and weak compatibilism support
their adherence to a natural law meta-ethic with a ‘platonic’
theory of reality. If the “natural or moral order” is in harmony
with the divine reason, then the divine reason is somehow
reflected in the natural order which God has created and of
which humanity is a part. In short, the spiritual has a presence in
the material realm. Metaphysical theories that advocate such a
two-part view of a heavenly model reflected in earthly images or
shadows are called ‘platonic’ because Plato is the first known
explicator of this view. In Plato’s theory of reality, the physical
world is a reflection or copy of a non-physical Ideal world
which contains models for everything we see in the material

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
realm. This clearly harmonizes with the Bahá’í Writings which
state,
The spiritual world is like unto the phenomenal world.
They are the exact counterpart of each other. Whatever
objects appear in this world of existence are the outer
pictures of the world of heaven.69
Elsewhere he says,
For physical things are signs and imprints of spiritual
things; every lower thing is an image and counterpart of
a higher thing.70
When the spiritual has a presence in the material, when there
are signs and intimations of a superior world in nature, then
nature is obviously functioning in a teleological manner insofar
as it encourages our awareness of a transcendental world and
our “supernatural vocation.” This teleological function of
nature encourages us to understand the material in terms of the
spiritual. Failure to do so, i.e. interpreting the higher in terms
of the lower, as for example understanding love in terms of
physical lust, distorts our understanding. This inevitably leads
to the animalization of man and the failure to achieve his super-
natural destiny. However, we must raise our existence above the
material. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Strive that your high ideals may
be realized in the Kingdom of God on earth, as they will be in
Heaven.” [PT 43]
BIBLIOGRAPHY
See at end of Part 2, following.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1

NOTES
1 6 August 1933, on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer in
Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice, Science and
Technology, http://bahai-library.com/compilation_science_technology
2 Compilations, Bahá’í Scholarship, p. 17.
3 Letter to an individual believer, 21 October, 1943 in Compilations,
Scholarship, p. 4.
4 5 July, 1947 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer in Shoghi
Effendi and the Universal House of Justice, Science and Technology,
http://bahai-library.com/compilation_science_technology; emphasis
added.
5 PUP 231; emphasis added.
6 Carl Wellman, Morals and Ethics, p. 30.
7 Nicholas Bunnin, Jiyuan Yu, The Blackwell Dictionary of Western
Philosophy, p. 123.
8 Kant, Critique of Practical Reason, trans. by Thomas Kingswill Abbott, p.
74.
9 Kant, Critique of Practical Reason, p. 74.
10 Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, p. 321.
11 Ted Honerich editor, The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 289;
emphasis added.
12 This does not contradict Shoghi Effendi’s statement that “religious truth is
not absolute but relative” (WOB 57). The context of Shoghi Effendi’s
assertion is progressive revelation according to which religious truth
changes its outward presentation depending on time and place without
sacrificing the “eternal verities” (PDC 108) which are absolute and taught
by all Manifestations.
13 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to the Hague, p. 7.
14 SAQ 208; emphasis added.
15 Louis P Pojman, Ethics: Discovering Right and Wrong, p. 202.
16 PUP 63; emphasis added.
17 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer,
December 6, 1939 in Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 505; emphasis
added.
18 Gilbert Harman, The Nature of Morality, p. 11.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

19 Immanuel Kant, Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone, Preface to
the First Edition. http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/ethics/
kant/religion/religion-within-reason.htm
20 Immanuel; Kant, Preface to Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone,
trans. by Theodore M Greene and Hoyt M Hudson,
http://www.hkbu.edu.hk/ ppp/rbbr/toc.html
21 Marc Hauser and Peter Singer, “Morality Without Religion.” Op-ed in
Free Inquiry,
http://www.centerforinquiry.net/uploads/attachments/HauserSinger.pdf
22 Marc Hauser and Peter Singer, “Morality Without Religion.” Op-ed in
Free Inquiry,
23 The number of wars fought specifically over religion are quite small in the
5,000 year history of human warfare. In the West there are the Crusades
(off and on from 1095 — 1272); the Albigensian Crusades (1208 — 1241);
the Northern Crusades (off and on from 1147 — 1290) and the Thirty
Years War (1618 — 1648). These were overtly religious wars largely,
though not entirely, always about religion since politics and was not
separate from religion. Since 1648, no war anywhere has been chiefly
motivated by religion and issues of faith with the possible of the Taiping
Rebellion (1850 — 1864) in China.
24 Marc Hauser and Peter Singer, “Morality Without Religion.” Op-ed in
Free Inquiry. centerforinquiry.net/uploads/attachments/HauserSinger.pdf
25 A.J. Ayer, The Central Questions of Philosophy, p. 225.
26 Fyodor Dostoyevsky The Brothers Karamzov, p. 272.
http://www.gutenberg.org/files/28054/28054-h/28054-h.html
27 A.J. Ayer, The Central Questions of Philosophy, p. 226.
28 Bertrand Russell, “A Free Man’s Worship” in The Basic Writings of
Bertrand Russell, p. 68.
29 Bertrand Russell, “Why I Am Not a Christian” in The Basic Writings of
Bertrand Russell, p. 598.
30 Sam Harris, The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human
Values, p. 28; original emphasis
31 Harris, The Moral Landscape, p. 37; original emphasis
32 Harris, The Moral Landscape, p. 38. This is a strange accusation against
David Hume, the founding figure of modern empiricism who also did not
think that ethics have a religious basis.
33 David Hume, A Treatise of Human Nature, Book III, Part I, Section 1.
34 Harris, The Moral Landscape, p. 203.
35 Daniel Dennett, quoted in Sam Harris, The Moral Landscape: How Science
Can Determine Human Values, p. 196; original emphasis.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 1

36 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer,
December 6, 1939 in Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 505.
37 PUP 190; emphasis added.
38 PDC 107; emphasis added.
39 Message from the Universal House of Justice to the Bahá’ís of the world
Ridvan 1966. Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 594)
40 Gilbert Harman, The Nature of Morality, p. 11.
41 Jean-Paul Sartre, Essays in Existentialism, p. 35.
42 Jean-Paul Sartre, Essays in Existentialism, p. 35.
43 James Collins, The Existentialists, p. 40.
44 Jean-Paul Sartre, Essays in Existentialism, p. 35.
45 Karl Marx, Frederick Engels, The German Ideology, p. 6.
46 Karl Marx, Frederick Engels, The German Ideology, p. 47.
47 Karl Marx, Frederick Engels, The German Ideology, p. 58.
48 Matthew, 22:21.
49 Karl Marx and Frederick Engels, The Communist Manifesto, Chp. II.
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/61/pg61.html
50 Marx and Engels, The Communist Manifesto, Chp. II (emphasis added).
51 In Vladimir Lenin, What Is To Be Done?
52 Marx and Engels, The Communist Manifesto, Chp. II.
53 Immanuel Kant, The Critique of Practical Reason, Chp. II, V; emphasis
added.
54 Kant, The Critique of Practical Reason, Chp. II, V; emphasis added.
55 Lawrence M Hinman, Ethics: A Pluralistic Approach to Moral Theory, p.
86.
56 Julia Driver, Ethics: The Fundamentals, p. 25.
57 Andrew Fisher, Metaethics: An Introduction, p. 77.
58 Plato, Euthyphro. http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/euthyfro.html
59 Plato, Euthyphro, Trans by Benjamin Jowett.
60 J.P. Moreland and William Lane Craig, Philosophical Foundations of a
Christian Worldview, p. 530; emphasis added.
61 Miriam-Webster Dictionary, merriam-webster.com/dictionary/tyrant
62 Roderick Firth is generally recognized as the contemporary originator of
ideal observer theory although its roots lie with Adam Smith.
63 Shelly Kagan, Normative Ethics, p. 279.
64 Robert Audi, general editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, p.
415. See also Karri-Jaakko Liikkanen, Ideal Observer Theory, University

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

of Helsinki, Master’s Thesis, 2013. https://helda.helsinki.fi/bitstream/
handle/10138/40964/Liikkanen%20Masters%20Thesis.pdf
65 Nancy Rankin, “A Substantive Revision of Firth’s Ideal Observer Theory”
in Stance, Vol. 3, April 2010, http://www.bsu.edu/libraries/
virtualpress/stance/2010_spring/idealobservertheory.pdf
66 Lawrence M. Hinman, Ethics: A Pluralistic Approach to Moral Theory, p.
106.
67 Hinman, Ethics: A Pluralistic Approach to Moral Theory, p. 106.
68 See for example Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings”; “Bahá’í
Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance”; “Some Answered Questions: A
Philosophic Perspective,” all published in the Lights of Irfan series.
69 PUP 10; emphasis added. See also ABL 46.
70 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe; emphasis added. Original Tablet in
Makatib-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, pp 13-32. Anonymous provisional
translation: http://bahai-library.com/abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih

The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part II: Deeper into the Writings
Ian Kluge
8. Teleology: the Foundation of Natural Law
Another major issue in studying the meta-ethics of the Bahá’í
Writings is the question of whether or not the Writings
exemplify or are consistent with a natural law meta-ethic. This
study finds that such is, indeed, the case albeit it in a variant
version. To explain why, it is necessary to briefly outline the
relevant theory and history of natural law meta-ethics.
Teleology is the foundational concept in any natural law
meta-ethic. It means that everything, especially all living things,
have an innate purpose or final cause that guides their
development and that they must actualize in order to be
genuinely themselves. This final cause, these inherent goals
constitute the nature or essence of every particular being.
Moreover, this final cause is the standard by which we judge
whether or not a thing “is functioning well or appropriately.”1
Insofar as things fail to actualize their final cause, they are
incomplete
and
not
authentically
themselves,
i.e.
not
authentically what they are intended to be. Such a deficient
condition negatively affects the behavior of any living being,
but especially humans, in whom these imperfections inevitably
affect their ethical behavior because humans have a spiritual
nature that should be actualized.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
To begin, natural law, which must be distinguished from
man-made positive or conventional law, is “usually understood
as involving a superhuman legislator,”2 i.e. God Who embeds
these laws in the intrinsic nature or essence of minerals,
vegetables, animals and humans. [FWU 48] Each of these
essentially different kinds of being has its own “prescribed
ways”3 of being and flourishing. This leads us to the key concept
in any natural law meta-ethic: teleology. All beings have an
intrinsic goal, a final cause or purpose and can only achieve
well-being if they strive towards these goals. For example,
regardless of culture, a human child must learn to communicate
and/or understand some language if its well-being is our goal.
Tadpoles have no such requirements since they are intrinsically,
i.e. essentially, different from humans. In other words, ‘the
good’ for any kind of being consists in fulfilling its goals, its
final cause or teleology. The ‘good’ is self-actualization
according to our own particular nature which in humankind
includes our spiritual aspect. Any activity that prevents or
harms the pursuit of the intrinsic ‘good’ is evil to that particular
being. Because humans have free will, they can also be evil to
themselves insofar as they can reject or misuse their teleological
nature. This is an important issue because identifying ‘the good’
is one of the chief functions of any meta-ethical theory.
The earliest known statement about teleology — Aristotle’s
Nicomachean Ethics — is also one of precise and compact:
Every art and every inquiry, and similarly every action
and pursuit, is thought to aim at some good; and for this
reason the good has rightly been declared to be that at
which all things aim. But a certain difference is found
among ends...4
This means that every being and every action is for the sake of a
particular ‘good,’5 which means that they have a goal, a final
cause and are, therefore, teleological in nature. To this,
Aristotle adds, “Each animal is thought to have its proper
pleasure, as it has a proper function; viz., that which

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
corresponds to its activity.”6 This is its ‘good.’ For humans,
‘good’ means acting according to our spiritual potentials i.e. in
harmony with the divinely given virtues which exist as capacities
or potentials within us. As Aristotle says, “human good turns
out to be activity of soul in accordance with virtue.”7 For the
Bahá’í Writings, such virtuous action occurs when we realize
our teleological nature. In other words, every kind of creation
has its own proper or appropriate happiness based on its
essential nature; from this it follows logically that what is
appropriate for one kind of being is not necessarily appropriate
for another.
Aristotle’s statement about living “in accordance with
virtue” harmonizes with the Bahá’í Writings for the obvious
reason that it locates the basis of true happiness in our spiritual
and not our physical nature. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares,
As for the spiritual perfections they are man’s birthright
and belong to him alone of all creation. Man is, in
reality, a spiritual being, and only when he lives in the
spirit is he truly happy. This spiritual longing and
perception belongs to all men alike.8
In this statement, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms that this final cause or
“spiritual longing” is universal, i.e. intrinsic to human nature —
is unique to man and, therefore, defines him and his essence.
St. Thomas Aquinas, the great medieval philosopher and
theologian developed the concept of natural law in more detail
than any other thinker. He writes,
all things partake somewhat of the eternal law, insofar
as, namely, from its being imprinted upon them, they
derive their respective inclinations to their proper acts
and ends. Now among all others, the rational creature is
subject to divine providence in a more excellent way,
insofar as it partakes of a share of providence, by being
provident for itself and for others. Wherefore it has a

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
share of the eternal reason, whereby it has a natural
inclination to its proper act and end, and this
participation of the eternal law in the rational creature is
called the natural law.9
The “proper acts” referred to by Aquinas are those acts which
are in harmony with our God-given essential nature, our goal or
purpose; they are ‘proper’ or ‘appropriate’ to our nature.
Moreover, Aquinas’s “natural inclinations[s]” correspond to the
“spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] of the Writings because both
incline us to correct moral action but neither can compel it,
thereby safe-guarding humankind’s free will. Both in the
Writings and in Aquinas, these inclinations or susceptibilities
are oriented to or ‘aimed’ at achieving our divinely given final
cause, purpose or end or what is known in Catholic philosophy
as our “supernatural vocation.”10 This supernatural end is
intended to guide our actions in this world and lead to our
happiness or well-being.
8.1: Objections to Natural Law Theory
The first and most obvious objection to natural law theory is
Hume’s ‘is-ought’ problem according to which we cannot
assume that because a certain situation is the factual case that it
ought to be the case, i.e. we must not suppose that the facts of
nature place a moral obligation on human action.11 According
to Hume, facts and values are two distinct kinds of things and
to confuse them is a logical category error that mixes up
descriptive statements, which tell us what is the case, with
prescriptive statements which tell us what ought to be the case.
Besides, no empirical analysis can show us any ethical imperative
in living things. Consequently, it is argued, natural law meta-
ethics is impossible because nature cannot be claimed as the
basis for any prescriptions, i.e. any ethics at all.
One problem with “Hume’s Guillotine” as it is sometimes
called, is that it only applies to a strictly empiricist and
materialist concept of nature in which values have no place.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
However, it does not apply if nature, i.e. living things and
humans, are teleological, and, therefore, have an inherent goal
for which they strive. Having such a purpose necessarily means
that values are at work in the form of preferences or
requirements for optimal development of living things. A plant
must seek water to grow, an animal must reach maturity to
reproduce its kind. Some possibilities have greater value than
others in reaching optimal results for a living being and,
therefore, are more valuable, better, good, natural and so on.
At the most basic level, ‘good’ is what enables a living thing to
attain its optimal condition, and, therefore, has utilitarian
value. For animals, of course, there is no point in asking if they
should strive for optimal development — they have no choice
and that is what they just do. Should a human do the same, i.e.
is there a moral obligation to do so? In our view, the answer is
clear: if the purpose of morality is not to attain optimal well-
being, then the concept of ‘morality’ is meaningless and any
discussions about whether or not there is a moral obligation for
optimal development are futile.
Moreover, there is a third, unintended consequence to
“Hume’s Guillotine.” If empirical facts can tell us nothing
about morals, if ‘is’ cannot lead to ‘ought,’ then it follows that
science is irrelevant to ethics. There is no way to establish a
scientific ethic to guide human kind because values cannot be
tested by the scientific method. They do not meet the criteria of
being objects for scientific study insofar as they are not
physical, cannot be measured, they cannot be predicted and
tested for truth or falsity. Sam Harris recognizes this difficulty
in his book The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine
Values, in which he tries to undo Hume’s ‘is-ought’ conundrum
by claiming it as “another dismal product of Abrahamic
religion.”12 However, pointing out the — in his view —
unrespectable origin of the problem does not prove that the
problem is unreal. His claim is an example of the genetic fallacy
which tries to disprove an idea by referring to allegedly
‘unrespectable’ origins.13

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Hume’s is-ought problem has one other weakness: it cannot
be universally applied but only works with an empirical and
materialist view of nature. However, if nature is teleological
and, as in ‘platonic’ theories, there is a spiritual presence in
nature, it is not at all difficult to derive an ‘ought’ from an ‘is.’
We can see why such is the case in of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement,
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth
is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent
testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light.14
From a Bahá’í perspective, nature is inherently value-laden
first, by virtue of its origin with God and second, because each
thing reflects the values of God in the material realm. If nature
is value-laden, then obviously we can draw conclusions about
values, including moral values from it. These values are
imperative insofar as they are sanctioned or authorized by God
and are obligatory for the kinds of beings to which they pertain.
A human, for example, has spiritual capacities that must be
developed (unless distortions in our development are to occur)
whereas a horse does not.
There is one other famous and often-used argument against
natural law meta-ethics. Sartrean existentialism rejects the
concept that humans have a ‘ready-made’ essence or nature
given to them, a view often encapsulated in the phrase
“existence precedes essence.” In practice, this means that
humans make themselves and have no nature or essence given to
them ‘ready-made’ by God or anyone else. As Sartre puts it,
“Human freedom precedes essence in man,”15 meaning, we are
not constrained by a pre-established essence and are free to
make our own. Simone de Beauvoir, author of the archetypal
feminist text, The Second Sex, applies this Sartre’s idea to
women in her statement “One is not born a woman; one
becomes a woman.”16 Some schools of feminism (as well as post-
modern philosophy17) have also adopted the meta-ethical belief

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
that there is no given human essence or sexuality, and that we
personally and/or collectively construct human nature as we
find it. Michele M. Schumacher writes, “[A] majority of
academic and western feminist assume that whatever nature is,
it is not human. There is ... no such ‘thing’ as specifically human
nature.”18 According to these philosophers, we could re-
construct human nature — or sexuality — in some other way if
we choose to do so. Our ethics and our nature is in our hands
because we have no intrinsic teleological nature.
8.2 The Basis for Natural Law Meta-Ethic in the Bahá’í Writings
In our view, the Bahá’í Writings adhere to a variation of a
natural law meta-ethic. The convergences with Aristotle’s and
Aquinas’ views are obvious and need no further elaboration.
Bahá’u’lláh shows humanity’s teleological nature when He
affirms,
It is for thee to direct thyself towards the Ultimate
Goal, and the Supreme End, and the Most Sublime
Pinnacle, that thou mayest hear and behold what hath
been revealed by God, the Lord of the worlds.19
This passage shows that in order to fulfill our teleological
nature or final cause and “supernatural vocation,” we must
develop our “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] so we can “hear
and behold,” i.e. comprehend and follow God’s new revelation
and harmonize our lives with God’s Will. Harmonizing our will
with God’s Will in daily practice is precisely what ethics is all
about.
The Universal House of Justice expressly identifies human
nature as teleological and asserts that certain attributes are
“intended by God for human nature.” These attributes
constitute our essence and, thereby, define us as human beings.
Any attribute that contradicts our essence is “unnatural”:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Bahá’í concept of human nature is teleological; that
is, there are certain qualities intended by God for
“human nature”, and qualities which do not accord with
these are described as “unnatural.”20
The consequences of this statement are clear: any attributes
not in harmony with God’s will for human nature are
“unnatural” and, thereby, not ethical. This is because going
against God’s goodness and His good will for us cannot, by
definition, be ethically good. Actualizing our God-given
teleological nature, i.e. acting on the basis of our spiritual
aspects means that we at least strive to act ethically. In other
words, what accords with our true spiritual nature and what is
ethical are one and the same thing.
As previously noted, because our teleological nature is from
God, this “Ultimate Goal” or final cause is real, objective and
mind-independent. It is ‘the good’ towards which we are all
striving, either unconsciously or consciously. From this, along
with the guidance given by Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi
Effendi and the Universal House of Justice, it follows logically
that some actions are more suited to attaining that “Ultimate
Goal” than others i.e. not all actions are equally suited to
attaining ‘the good.’ This suggests that our divinely given
human nature establishes an objective standard by which to
evaluate and choose our actions from an ethical standpoint.
Consequently, moral relativism is negated since it lacks such an
objective standard and, therefore, reduces all moral choices to
subjective preferences. However, we must also recall that a
diversity of appropriate choices may well exist in some cases
and that the range of appropriate choices is not necessarily
reduced to one. In other words, humanity’s teleological nature
does not violate the Bahá’í principle of unity in diversity.
Moreover, because these laws originate with God, they are
mind-independent and objective and, therefore, they are not
determined by human perceptions, wishes or cultural agendas.
For example, we can (somewhat) shape the basic communication

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
needs of human beings — as by using sign language — but we
cannot eliminate them. They are needs that must be fulfilled. In
addition, natural laws are unchangeable because they are based
on the intrinsic nature of a being and as long as that particular
kind of being exists, the applicable natural laws will also exist.
This idea is implicit in the concept of progressive revelation
which divides laws into two parts, the temporary and the
eternal:
Each of the divine religions embodies two kinds of
ordinances. The first is those which concern spiritual
susceptibilities, the development of moral principles and
the quickening of the conscience of man. These are
essential or fundamental, one and the same in all
religions, changeless and eternal — reality not subject to
transformation ... The second kind of ordinances ...
relate to the material affairs of mankind.21
The “essential or fundamental” laws do not change because
human nature does not change; hence, they are “the same in all
religions” which, in effect, means the same in all places and at
all times. Only the actualization of human potentials changes as
we progress spiritually, culturally, economically and so on.
Once again, it is important to note that if collective/societal or
individual acts coincide with natural law, we may legitimately
call it ‘just’ or morally ‘good’ and if they do not, the individual
act or the positive/conventional law is unjust and “unnatural”22
and will degrade our well-being. According to natural law
theory, man-made, i.e. conventional law must either be based on
or at least not be in conflict with natural law if we are to gain
true benefit from legislation. In this sense, the theological laws
revealed by the Manifestation take precedence over positive
man-made law.
At this point, it must be emphasized that references to
natural law do not refer to the physical laws of nature or the
behavior of animals in nature. Therefore, the Writings explicitly
reject the concept that human behavior should model itself on

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
animal behaviors in the natural world. Our ethics are derived
from our essential nature and the Bahá’í theory of human nature
includes our rational and spiritual aspects which do not exist in
animals. This issue is especially relevant in light of vigorous
contemporary debate about homosexuality. For example, the
Bahá’í Faith sees homosexual acts as “unnatural”23 which, of
course, is a reference to our God-given rational and spiritual
nature. The Bahá’í view cannot be scientifically disproven by
cataloging alleged homosexual acts in the animal kingdom and
then arguing that the acts found in nature give legitimize the
same actions among humans. Bruce Bagemihil famously tried
this in his book Natural Exuberance.24 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes clear
that what is natural and appropriate for animals is not
necessarily so for humans: “the fact that some species eat their
young does not mean that it is acceptable for human beings to
do so.”25 Actions that violate our higher natures are not
appropriate for us and violate our nature.
This is why Bahá’í meta-ethics cannot uncritically accept
beliefs that nature is a moral exemplar for us to follow. The
aspects of nature that orient us towards ‘the good’ are in
harmony with our essence and, above all, are sanctioned by or in
harmony with the Writings themselves. Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá often illustrate their teachings with reference to nature —
“Doves are of many colors; nevertheless, they live in utmost
harmony” [PUP 45] — but we must remember that using nature to
illustrate a divinely ordained principle is not the same as basing
a moral teaching on what we find in nature. The Writings reveal
God’s teachings and illustrate them with selected examples from
nature; the starting point is God, not nature. Nature alone can
never be a self-sufficient foundation of our ethical principles
which can only have their legitimacy, authority and universality
from God. Perhaps the fastest way to illustrate this is to point
out some especially horrible habits among animals: dogs
packing, chickens pecking a deformed chick to death, or gang
rape among dolphins. Naturalist ethical systems avoid examples
like this for obvious reasons. Taoism, European Romanticism,

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
and various modern nature ‘spiritualities’ are examples of such
thinking that look towards the co-operative aspects of nature as
a moral model. However, nature also has brutal competition
which was the focus of Darwinism and Social Darwinism and
their Fascist descendents. Nature alone is not a reliable guide to
morals.
We must be very clear in our minds that applying animal
behaviors to judge human actions is also irrational for the
simple reason that humans are not merely animals; we are, as the
Writings teach, essentially different. To behave like something
we are not, is irrational because it is against our own best
interests. From the perspective of Bahá’í meta-ethics, irrational
behavior is deeply problematic because it violates our essential
nature as “rational souls” [SAQ 208-209] which distinguish us
from animals. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the
animal is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one thing.
This spirit, which in the terminology of the philosophers
is the rational soul, embraces all beings, and as far as
human ability permits discovers the realities of things ...
But the human spirit, unless assisted by the spirit of
faith, does not become acquainted with the divine
secrets and the heavenly realities. [SAQ 208-209]
Here, too, we find convergence between the Bahá’í Writings
and Aristotle, who said that the highest virtue for humans is the
exercise of reason which is “something divine.”26
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement indicates that without the “rational
soul” either in actuality or in potential, we are seriously
defective as humans. Something that should be there is not or is
not functioning as it should. However, the “rational soul” while
necessary is not sufficient because to fully actualize ourselves
we must “awaken spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7] to receive
inspiration and guidance of the “spirit of faith.” Furthermore,

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
humans are constituted by two natures, i.e. a physical, bodily
nature and a spiritual nature “born from the bounty to the Holy
Spirit.” [SAQ 118] From this it follows that in Bahá’í meta-ethics,
ethical decisions must harmonize with both our physical and
spiritual natures as well as with our inherent rationality.
Of course, humans also have free will in regards to moral
matters and, therefore, can violate their own natures i.e. act
irrationally and unnaturally but this results in their own
detriment. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, for example, regards racial prejudice
as “unnatural” [PUP 287] which is to say, against our own
spiritual and rational natures. Indulging in this irrational and
“unnatural” behavior damages us individually and socially.
8.3: Udo Schaefer’s Rejection of Natural Law Meta-ethics
On the subject of a natural law meta-ethic in the Bahá’í
Writings, it is important to specifically examine Udo Schaefer’s
discussion of this subject in his Bahá’í Ethics In Light of
Scripture. In the discussion below, we shall endeavor to show
that alternative understandings of this issue are possible and
should also be considered.
In this work, Schaefer accepts that “Insofar as the virtues
have a telos, or purpose, that of right being Bahá’í ethics may be
called teleological.”27 Despite this statement, he vigorously
rejects the concept of a natural law meta-ethics in the Bahá’í
Writings. However, the matter may be understood differently
than he does. Once we accept teleology, i.e. purposive, goal
oriented behavior, it is, in our view, difficult to avoid the
conclusion that this goal is a standard by which all action must
be judged, and that all ‘virtues’ are by definition those acts that
advance our way to the goal. The necessity of performing these
acts to attain the goal constitutes natural law, i.e. the
requirements we must meet to actualize our essence. In short,
there are desirable and undesirable results that we strive for.
This also throws doubt on the deontologic aspects of Bahá’í
ethics28 for the simple reason that commands obeyed for the

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
sake of attaining our teleologic goal or for the love of God
cannot be deontologic, i.e. done for their own sake. We shall
have more to say about this below.
In regards to teleology, our view is that the Writings seem to
follow a middle-path between the outright rejection of natural
law meta-ethics in its traditional form and a complete
acceptance of the traditional or conventional natural law
theory. In other words, there is another, alternative way to
understand this topic and its associated issues.
According to Udo Schaefer, “The Bahá’í Faith does not
support the idea of an innate, natural law, moral law inscribed
by God in human nature;”29 he adds that “Neither Bahá’í
scripture not the Qur’an contain even a hint at natural law.”30
The key point in Schaefer’s understanding is the belief that the
highest criterion in moral judgment is recourse to God’s
arbitrary will and to the infallibility of the divine
Messenger who mediates this will to humanity ... To this
will which is arbitrary, absolute, not bound by principles
... man owes absolute obedience . . .[The moral order] is
not anchored in preceding Platonic ideas of good and
evil, in eternal truths immanent in nature and
identifiable by reason, nor in a rational concept of
human nature ... nor in a rationally recognizable ‘nature
of things’ (rerum natura). Rather morality proceeds from
the decisions of God’s arbitrary will.... His will has no
reason to will as he wills other than that he wills it so.31
In other words, the basis of Schaefer’s rejection is that God’s
will cannot be limited by anything external to Himself, such as
“preceding Platonic ideas of good and evil” that would limit His
power of choice in any way. Moreover, God’s Will is non-
rational and “arbitrary,” i.e. He “has no reason to will as he
wills.” Such is the case because the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
existence of a preceding idea of the moral good, the
existence of a natural moral order, of a natural law ,
binding upon God would make it ‘an associate of his
[God’s] judgment ... and would thus limit God’s
sovereignty.32
The view that anything can precede God or limit His Will is, of
course, unacceptable according to the Bahá’í Writings. In
addition, contrary to the traditional theory of natural law,
Schaefer maintains that human reason alone cannot identify
these moral values:
[a] basic proposition of all natural law is that moral
norms are recognized as such by human reason. The
question then arises as to the place assigned to reason in
Bahá’í ethics. Can human beings distinguish between
right and wrong, good and evil, virtue and vice by means
of reason alone, without the aid of scripture. Is reason
an independent, primary or supplementary source of
values?33
This, of course, brings us to the crucial question of moderate
rationalism and what can be known and how.34 Finally, we
should note that natural law,
is based on the idea that [t]here is an ‘eternal and
unchangeable law that encompasses all peoples and all
ages’, a law that is ‘in accord with right reason (recta
ratio) and shared by all human beings. Thus the rules of
conduct are inherent in all human nature and are based
upon eternal, rational ideas of justice, upon an imagined
apriori nature of the human being and its innate moral
sense. According to this philosophy the basic principles
of ethics, the magna principia, are recognizable by
reason.35
Let us examine Schaefer’s argument to see if there are
alternate ways of understanding the points he raises.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
As we have seen, Schaefer outlines and rejects what may be
called the ‘standard’ or traditional view of natural law meta-
ethics. We do not deny that this is one way to understand the
subject, but we do not believe this is the only way to
understand to do so. We shall outline an alternative viewpoint
by examining the key issues involved. There are four major
issues in natural law meta-ethics: (a) the power of God; (2)
teleology; (3) intrinsic moral knowledge. We shall examine these
and some of the issues that grow out of them and (d) the role of
reason.
First of all, contrary to what Schaefer seems to claim, a
natural law meta-ethics does not necessarily limit the power of
God by subordinating them to preceding morals that exist
independently of God like Platonic Ideas. Such subordination is,
of course, one of the horns of the Euthyphro Dilemma we have
already discussed. Bahá’í, Jewish, Christian or Muslim versions
of natural law meta-ethic reject the concept that anything can
precede God because God is the Creator of all things. Such a
view is logically absurd. Furthermore, to believe that anything
can precede God and exist independently denies God’s
omnipotence — but such a notion of God is simply not relevant
to the Bahá’í Writings. In the last analysis, there is absolutely
nothing in the idea of a natural law meta-ethic that denigrates
God by requiring Him to choose among pre-existing,
independent values for humankind. All that a natural law meta-
ethic requires is that moral laws, moral knowledge or moral
capacities be intrinsic to human nature and that in some way
play a role in our ethical evolution. Consequently, Schaefer’s
objection on this matter need not hinder the development of an
alternative view to natural law ethics in the Writings.
In order to emphasize God’s omnipotence and, thereby,
sharpen his argument against the slightest hint of pre-existing or
Platonic Ideas, Schaefer portrays God as “arbitrary, absolute
and not bound by principles: “His will has no reason to will as
he wills other than that he wills it so.”36 God’s omnipotence is,
of course, the basis of a natural-law meta-ethic because without

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
an omnipotent God, humanity and nature could not be
universally endowed with their inherent capacities and the
values these embody in unactualized, ‘embryo’ form. However,
it is not necessary that God’s “arbitrary” Will be understood in
the human sense of the word, i.e. random, whimsical or
capricious. Nor do we need to claim that He necessarily acts
non-rationally, i.e. that He has no reasons to act. In fact, to
over-emphasize God’s arbitrariness not only falls onto one of
the horns of the Euthyphro dilemma but seems more aligned
with certain interpretations of Protestant Christianity such as
Lutheranism and Calvinism.37
We do not need to deny God’s omnipotent and “arbitrary”
power to realize that just because God could act in any way He
chooses with or without any reason, it does not necessarily
mean that He would act in a capricious and irrational manner.
Being all-powerful does not prevent God from choosing to act
consistently with reason or His own laws. Indeed, God can even
choose to limit the use of His power — as He does in bestowing
free will on human beings. He certainly knows when we make a
moral mistake, but He limits His power by not interfering.
Doing this is logically consistent with the freedom He has given
us and avoids the logical contradiction of taking with one hand
the freedom He has given with the other. If God constantly
interferes with human action to ensure that we make the right
moral choice, true moral progress would be impossible because
humans would, in effect, not be tested and reduced to robots.
Morality itself would be abolished. After all, morality depends
on the possibility of free choice. Here, too, we observe that
omnipotent God chooses to act in a manner consistent with the
laws of reason He created. In that sense he acts like Shoghi
Effendi’s “rational God.” [WOB 112]
There are two important caveats on the foregoing discussion.
First, it must be emphasized that our discussion does not allow
us to conclude that God in His essence is rational. God’s essence
is simply unknowable to His creations. However, the fact that
God’s essence is absolutely unknowable does not prevent us

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
from observing that God’s Will has revealed itself in way that is
consistent with human reason at least in this ‘corner of
creation.’ Furthermore, making the human essence the “rational
soul” suggests that we are being ‘fitted’ or adapted to a creation
that is fundamentally rational. Otherwise, the mismatch
between the “rational soul” and a capricious creation would
make intellectual and moral development impossible. Science
would also become impossible in a mismatch between the
rational human soul and a non-rational creation. Second, it is
important to note that because God chooses to reveal His Will
in a way consistent with human reason does not mean that God
Himself reasons in the human way. In fact, we cannot know if
God ‘reasons’ at all. All we can say is that in creation, He
reveals His Will in manner consistent with our reasoning
processes and consequently, there is no intrinsic conflict
between reason and religion. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Reason is
the first faculty of man and the religion of God is in harmony
with it.” [PUP 231]
The second and third pillars of natural law meta-ethics are
teleology and the existence of inherent moral knowledge.
Although distinct in themselves, they are intertwined and so we
shall discuss them together. Teleology is the belief that all
things, but especially all living things and most especially human
beings have an intrinsic purpose that guides their development.
Although we have already discussed this above, there is more to
say specifically vis-à-vis the Bahá’í Writings and Udo Schaefer’s
presentation of this issue. We shall begin with a quotation from
the Universal House of Justice:
The Bahá’í concept of human nature is teleological; that
is, there are certain qualities intended by God for
“human nature”, and qualities which do not accord with
these are described as “unnatural.”38
This passage confirms humanity’s teleological nature —
thereby agreeing with the bed-rock principle of natural law
meta-ethics as we have seen above. Moreover, the teleological

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
nature or final cause must be within us i.e. within nature, since
otherwise it could not be our goal as human beings. Finally, this
passage asserts that there are “certain qualities intended by God
for ‘human nature” which means that certain qualities are
deemed by God as good and, therefore, desirable for humanity.
If God considers such qualities desirable for human nature, then
obviously these qualities are part of human nature because of
His endowment. Moreover, among these good qualities is the
orientation (or ‘vector’) towards God Who is “the Desire of all
things.” [PM 58] The desire for God is in “all things” though “all
things” may not be conscious of it as humans should be.
Obviously, if God is the goal or “the Desire of all things” then
all things, humans included, have an intrinsic teleological nature
to seek Him in a way appropriate to their essence. Here, too, we
see that these qualities are within human nature, and that there
is something in each individual which orients us towards the
good and the true, i.e. our “supernatural vocation.” In addition,
these qualities “intended by God” are an objective standard by
which humans can evaluate whether our actions have lived up
God’s intentions or not. In other words, we have within us an
objective and universal divine standard to judge our conduct.
We shall explore this issue further below.
There is additional evidence that mankind’s nature is
teleological, and specifically oriented towards moral knowledge
and the desire for God. The Writings speak of “the universality
or perfection of virtues potential in mankind. Therefore, it is
said that man has been created in the image and likeness of
God.”39 This implies that if these potentials were not present in
mankind, we would not be made in God’s image which, in
effect, means we would not be human. In short, these potentials
are part of our essence as human beings. A similar line of
argument develops from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s frequent references to
the “spiritual susceptibilities”40 within human beings and his
calls on us to “to awaken spiritual susceptibilities in the hearts
of mankind.”41 How could one awaken what is not there? If
these susceptibilities are to be awakened, then they must exist —

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
at least, in potential — be within us, waiting for actualization
by the Manifestation. Indeed, these “spiritual susceptibilities”
distinguish humans from animals which are “utterly lacking
spiritual susceptibilities, ignorant of divine religion and without
knowledge of the Kingdom of God.” [PUP 177] In our view, these
“spiritual susceptibilities” are a moral sense in potentia. The
Bahá’í International Community also sees moral potentialities as
inherent to humankind:
It not only sees the individual as a spiritual being, a “rational
soul”, but also insists that the entire enterprise that we call
civilization is itself a spiritual process, one in which the human
mind and heart have created progressively more complex and
efficient means to express their inherent moral and intellectual
capacities.42
What
could
“express[ing]
their
inherent
moral
and
intellectual capacities” refer to if not expressing the moral
truths and understandings that have been awakened from
potentiality by the Manifestation? This, at least, is our
understanding of the matter.
We can also observe the intrinsic nature of these qualities.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The holy Manifestations of God come into the world to
dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of
man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that
his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened,
his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his
potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the
world of humanity latent within him may come to life.43
It should be pointed out that here, too, that moral virtues are
potential within us: “the virtues of the world of humanity [are]
latent within [us].” Moreover, our divine qualities” cannot be
“awakened,” our “perfections [made] visible” and our
“potential powers revealed” if they are not within us, i.e.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
inherent. These inherent attributes — whether in potential or in
actuality — are necessary for an natural law meta-ethic. Without
them and without a teleological nature, a natural law meta-ethic
is impossible.
The existence of potential moral knowledge raises the
question of whether or not reason alone can help us discover the
virtues entailed in our final cause. Aquinas, for example,
accepts that at least some of these ethical precepts can be
known by “the light of natural reason alone44 (although
revelation is needed for faith) whereby we discern what is good
and what is evil.45 However, the Bahá’í Writings disagree.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear that reason alone is not sufficient
for true knowledge: “But the human spirit [rational soul], unless
assisted by the spirit of faith, does not become acquainted with
the divine secrets and the heavenly realities.” [SAQ 208] Reason is
necessary but not sufficient to awaken our “spiritual
susceptibilities” which are a moral sense in potentia. The matter
could not be more clear: our spiritual and moral knowledge
cannot develop without assistance from “the spirit of faith.”
[SAQ 208] Elsewhere ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
How shall we attain the reality of knowledge? By the
breaths and promptings of the Holy Spirit, which is light
and knowledge itself. Through it the human mind is
quickened and fortified into true conclusions and
perfect knowledge. [PUP 22]
Furthermore, the Writings make it clear that humanity’s
spiritual and moral evolution cannot occur without the
Manifestations; consequently, reason is not sufficient. It
requires the aid of the Manifestations. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes,
It is evident that the holy Manifestations and divine
dawning points are necessary, for these blessed and
glorious Souls are the foremost Teachers and Educators
of mankind, and all human souls are developed through
Them by the bounty of the Holy Spirit of God.46

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
It is, of course, obvious that if reason alone were sufficient
to acquire spiritual and moral knowledge and to carry on
humanity’s evolution, the Manifestations would not be needed.
Indeed, this is exactly what such philosophies as Humanism
claim. Humanity is sufficient to itself.47 Unfortunately, daily
experience and history prove otherwise. As Schaefer says,
Human beings cannot recognize the moral order by
reason alone; they are dependent on divine revelation on
a God-given standard, a hierarchy of supreme values, on
fixed point constituting an immovable yardstick and not
subject to reason.48
However, the fact that reason is not sufficient, does not
automatically mean that reason is not necessary for humans to
know, understand and apply our moral knowledge in daily life.
Reason is unavoidable when dealing with morals. First of all, we
must use reason to understand precisely what the divine
guidance means, i.e. we must interpret it in a way that does not
fall into logical absurdity, into self-contradiction and into
contradiction with the rest of the Writings. As Schaefer says,
we must interpret it ‘in accord with right reason.” Furthermore,
if we find ourselves in a situation in which there is no explicit
textual guidance, we must reason our way to a solution on the
basis of the Writings. There is not always time or opportunity
to consult with others or the Universal House of Justice.
Finally, we must evaluate whether or not our actions harmonize
with the Writings and why. In other words, God establishes the
ideal moral standards and reveals them in a manner consistent
with reason but humanity applies them in creation in a rational
way within the guidelines of the Writings. We cannot judge
God’s choices of moral principles but we must understand and
apply them rationally. Thus, as we can see, reason is necessary in
our moral lives. This, of course, is a modification of traditional
natural law meta-ethics.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Such an essential role for reason in our ethical lives is not
surprising, given the emphasis on reason in the Writings.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
that which is found to be real and conformable to reason
must be accepted, and whatever science and reason
cannot support must be rejected as imitation and not
reality. [PUP 175]
and,
God has endowed man with intelligence and reason
whereby he is required to determine the verity of
questions and propositions ... If a question be found
contrary to reason, faith and belief in it are impossible,
and there is no outcome but wavering and vacillation.
[PUP 181]
In addition, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says God
has bestowed upon him [man] the power of intellect so
that through the attribute of reason, when fortified by
the Holy Spirit, he may penetrate and discover ideal
realities and become informed of the mysteries of the
world of significances.49
Reason is even applicable to matters related to faith and
knowledge that does not pertain to the world of matter. Hence
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that
In divine questions we must not depend entirely upon
the heritage of tradition and former human experience;
nay, rather, we must exercise reason, analyze and
logically examine the facts presented so that confidence
will be inspired and faith attained.50
Further emphasizing the importance of reason in all aspects
of human life is the fact that the essential human feature is the

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
“rational soul” which is universal. It distinguishes us from
animals. Consequently, there are no good grounds to doubt the
applicability of reason to moral issues since we cannot exclude
our essential nature from anything we do. If we could, it would
no longer be essential.
To emphasize: according to the Writings, the Manifestations
are necessary to activate our inherent potentials.51 However,
this does not contradict natural law since natural law does not
logically require that our moral knowledge be awakened in any
specific way. Recognizing moral laws by reason alone is a
Thomistic teaching but the Bahá’í Writings reject this view for
the obvious reason that if humankind can recognize the moral
laws by itself, there is no reason for the Manifestations to exist.
Moreover, the Manifestations are necessary to motivate
humanity to do what is right; knowledge alone is not enough,
i.e. necessary but not sufficient. This is the great weakness in
the Socratic view of ethics, namely, the belief that people will
naturally do the right thing once they know what the right thing
is. This is a charming delusion. By itself, knowledge does not
make people ethical — there must also be motivation or
willingness to do the right thing and the strength to do it.
Providing willingness and strength is one of the irreplaceable
roles of the Manifestation.
According to Schaefer, natural law meta-ethics
is based on the idea that [t]here is an ‘eternal and
unchangeable law that encompasses all peoples and all
ages’, a law that is ‘in accord with right reason (recta
ratio) and shared by all human beings. Thus the rules of
conduct are inherent in all human nature and are based
upon eternal, rational ideas of justice, upon an imagined
apriori nature of the human being and its innate moral
sense. According to this philosophy the basic principles
of ethics, the magna principia, are recognizable by
reason.52

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Once again, there are alternative ways of understanding these
ideas. In our view, it seems clear that the Bahá’í Writings also
advocate an “apriori nature of human being and its innate moral
sense” that is “shared by all human beings.” Because this issue is
so essential to a natural law meta-ethic, a review is worthwhile.
In the first place, human nature universally shares the same final
cause — to know and worship God. It is teleological, i.e. it
shares the same final cause. Therefore, humankind is not only
physically but spiritually one. Shoghi Effendi states that “In
origin and intention of creation mankind is one” [ADJ 37] which
is to say, we originate from God and have the same teleological
nature of evolving towards God. All human beings, regardless
of culture, time, place or historical circumstance share the same
essence which is the “rational soul” distinguishing us from
animals. The Bahá’í International Community which states, “The
rational soul, in the Bahá’í view, is a phenomenon with limitless
potentialities: intellectual, spiritual, emotional and moral.53
Furthermore, all humans have a double nature, a physical
‘animal’ nature and a spiritual nature which draws them towards
God. This human nature is endowed with latent potentials,
including moral potentials and “spiritual susceptibilities.” Thus,
from our perspective, the Writings clearly advocate an
identifiable view of a universal human nature.
In addition, in our view the Bahá’í Writings accept that there
is, as Schaefer puts it,
an ‘eternal and unchangeable law that encompasses all
peoples and all ages’, a law that is ‘in accord with right
reason (recta ratio) and shared by all human beings.54
Given the existence of a universal human nature, it is only
rational that such a law should exist. Indeed, how else could
humanity be essentially one as the Writings teach? How else
shall
humankind
be
unified?
Without
an
essentially
unchangeable law based on what Shoghi Effendi calls the
“eternal verities” passed on from one revelation to another,
mankind would remain so badly diversified that conflict would

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
remain inevitable. There would still be adaptations to different
cultures — but these adaptations would still embody the “eternal
verities.” Moral standards would be superficially or accidently
different but essentially the same.
9. Motivation: Happiness: Eudaimonian Ethics
One of the key meta-ethical questions concerns motivation,
i.e. why we should be good — especially when it is to our
advantage not to be?’ Are the reasons to be good entirely
intrinsic or extrinsic or are they a combination of both? Is
personal satisfaction even necessary or can dedication to a
greater cause be sufficient? Is such dedication to a greater cause
necessary? These are some of the questions that arise.
In regards to the various schools of meta-ethics, the Writings
and Aristotle’s “eudaimonic ethics” seem to converge.
Aristotle’s
“eudaimonia”
which
is
often
translated
as
“happiness,” “well-being” and “flourishing” is also linked to
“arête” or personal virtue. In both the Eudemian Ethics and
Nichomachean Ethics, Aristotle asserts that happiness is the
final goal, ‘the good’ for which all human beings strive, the
motivation that energizes them: “Happiness is at once the
pleasantest and the fairest and best of all things whatever.”55 To
achieve it, we must strive to exist in the most perfect and
complete state possible; in other words, all things strive to self-
actualize, to move from potency to act, or, to make their
potentials actual. Striving for this ‘good’ is their true happiness.
Aristotle notes that happiness comes in “activities in accordance
with our human estate”56 or nature, and connects actualization
with happiness in his claim that “philosophic wisdom”57
produces happiness by being actualized within a person. This
activity actualizes our highest, specifically human, potential
and, thereby, cannot help but bring supreme happiness. Both the
Bahá’í and Aristotelian concepts of happiness are process
concepts of happiness, i.e. happiness is found in the process of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
drawing nearer to God or the universal “object of desire” and,
thereby, actualizing one’s potentials.
In our view, the Writings see the deepest motivation is to
attain happiness but, as we shall see, the Bahá’í concept of
happiness must not be confused with comfort and lazy
contentment or immediate, short-term pleasure or avoidance of
unpleasant and challenging undertakings. Regarding happiness,
Bahá’u’lláh asserts “whatsoever are the effective means for
safeguarding and promoting the happiness and welfare of the
children of men have already been revealed by the Pen of
Glory.” [TB 220] Elsewhere, He says, “We desire but the good of
the world and the happiness of the nations.” [PB, n.p.] “Abdu’l-
Bahá declares,
The primary purpose, the basic objective, in laying down
powerful laws and setting up great principles and
institutions dealing with every aspect of civilization, is
human happiness; and human happiness consists only in
drawing closer to the Threshold of Almighty God. [SDC
60]
These beliefs are succinctly encapsulated in the assertion that
“Bahá’u’lláh has brought you divine happiness.” [PUP 188] In
regards to the individual ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The purpose of these statements is to make it abundantly
clear that the Divine religions, the holy precepts, the
heavenly teachings, are the unassailable basis of human
happiness, and that the peoples of the world can hope
for no real relief or deliverance without this one great
remedy.58
He also advises individuals to
Seek ye divine happiness through the hardships and
sorrows of this physical world, and behold spiritual well-
being in the struggles of this fleeting existence. Distill

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
sugar and honey from the bitter poison of suffering.
Recognize the caress of divine favor in the arrows of
misfortune.59
In other words, the kind of happiness envisaged by the
Writings is not the secular happiness of comfort or even calm
and contented stasis In fact, every revelation at least to some
extent, is intended to bring a certain amount of ‘divine
discomfort’ and to awaken us from our moral and spiritual
complacency and slumbers; to encourage us to make greater
efforts to actualize our spiritual potentials, and to attain
spiritual
happiness
even
amidst
physical
and
worldly
discomfort. [PUP 341] Of course, the happiness we seek must be
the happiness of our spiritual nature which can only be attained
by pursuing ‘the good.’ In other words, the Writings require the
dynamic happiness of growth and developmental struggle and
actualizing our intrinsic human nature as we seek ‘the good,’ i.e.
God. In regards to its final cause, such happiness is found in
drawing nearer to God. In other words, happiness and well-
being lie in the struggle itself. It is not a happiness and well-
being that can be achieved once and for all because the effort
itself — no matter at what spiritual level — is the happiness we
seek. The surest way to lose this happiness is to stop trying.
10: Virtue Ethics
As Udo Schaefer demonstrates in Bahá’í Ethics in Light of
Scripture, Volume 2, the Bahá’í Writings espouse a form of
virtue ethics. Virtue ethics have a long and rich tradition
beginning with Aristotle60 in the West but also developed in
Islamic and Buddhist ethics.61 In addition, it has a substantial
history in Chinese Confucian philosophy.62 Consequentially,
virtue ethics may serve as a bridge from the Bahá’í Writings to
other religious and philosophical traditions in various parts of
the world. After several centuries of decline in the West, virtue
ethics have undergone a growing revival since the last half of
the twentieth century, thanks especially to three women

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
philosophers, G.E.M. Anscombe, Philippa Foot and Rosalind
Hursthouse.63
Virtue ethics differ from other meta-ethical systems because
of the belief that good, i.e. virtuous, behavior can only be
expected from a good character who pursues happiness in the
appropriate way.
[I]t is generally agree that virtue ethics maintains that
character, human excellences, virtues are the basic mode
of evaluation in the theory, as opposed to act
evaluations such as “right” and “wrong.” It is important
to note that many virtue ethicists do not believe the
theory to be incompatible with act evaluation at all.
Rather, act evaluation is to be understood in terms of
character evaluation.64
The key to good ethical behavior is for us to acquire the
virtues that are suitable to us as human beings, i.e. “rational
souls” with both a material and spiritual aspect, whose prime
purpose is to “know God and to love Him.” In the words of
Philippa Foot, one of the modern revivers of virtue ethics,
Natural goodness as I define it, which is attributable
only to living things themselves and to their parts,
characteristics
and
operations
is
intrinsic
or
‘autonomous’ goodness in that it depends directly on the
relation of the individual to the ‘life form’ of its
species.65
In other words, “natural goodness” is based on how well we
actualize the essential attributes of our species, i.e., of the kind
of creatures we are. For humans, building a good character who
can be relied upon to act virtuously and with the right
motivations is thought to be more effective in dealing with a
constantly changing world than trying to determine the right
action by assessing the greatest good for the greatest number or
the applicability of categorical imperatives or developing one’s

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
own unique scheme of values. “Not the rule follower, then, but
the person disposed by character to be generous, caring,
compassionate ... is the one we will hold up as a moral model.”66
Virtue ethics contrast “with modernist attempts to ground
morality in subjective preference or in abstract principles of
reason.”67 We know what the necessary virtues are because we
know human nature and what it needs to flourish, not only for
ourselves alone but as members of society, and, as the Writings
would point out, as a spiritual and immortal being made in the
image of God. The result of actualizing especially our highest
potentials will keep us in harmony with natural law and will
bring us the right kind of happiness. In other words, we need
only follow our teleological nature.
As the foregoing description shows, the virtue ethics depends
on the underlying theory of human nature, and on this score,
Bahá’í virtue theory, while similar to Aristotle’s in many
important respects as we have just seen, also differ from him on
a crucial issue of human nature. In fact, on the issue of feeling
and sympathy, the Bahá’í view converges with some Confucian
Chinese philosophers who put a great emphasis on sympathy and
“connectedness with others”68 and overcoming the false view
that we are ‘atomic,’ i.e. completely separate individuals.
Consequently, having a somewhat different view of human
nature means that the virtues to be cultivated differs.
There is no need to go into detail about the importance of
character in the Bahá’í Writings. The following advice from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá urges mothers to train their children “to have a
goodly character and good morals, guide them to all the virtues
of humankind, prevent the development of any behaviour that
would be worthy of blame.”69 Similarly, he says,
Training in morals and good conduct is far more
important than book learning. A child that is cleanly,
agreeable, of good character, well-behaved — even
though he be ignorant — is preferable to a child that is
rude, unwashed, ill-natured, and yet becoming deeply

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
versed in all the sciences and arts. The reason for this is
that the child who conducts himself well, even though he
be ignorant, is of benefit to others, while an ill-natured,
ill-behaved child is corrupted and harmful to others,
even though he be learned. If, however, the child be
trained to be both learned and good, the result is light
upon light.70
The issue could not be stated more clearly.
In our view, there is no point in reviewing Udo Schaefer’s
magnificent categorization of the Bahá’í virtues in Bahá’í Ethics
in Light of Scripture, Volume 2. Given the nature of this survey
paper, there is nothing to add at this point. The case for virtue
ethics in the Bahá’í Writings could not be made more clearly.
11: Consequentialism and Utilitarianism
Among modern meta-ethical theories, consequentialism and
its main representative, utilitarianism also share the Bahá’í
Writings’ goal of happiness. In this sense, there is a convergence
between the Writings and consequentialism and utilitarianism.
We shall examine the differences below.
For consequentialism itself, happiness is one possible
outcome by which we may evaluate the morality of an action. It
is not focused solely on happiness; it is focused on achieving the
“right kinds of overall consequences”71 even if these do not
always lead to unadulterated happiness, e.g. a root canal or
victory in WW II. The “right kinds of consequences” are those
leading to the goals we wish to or need to achieve. Morality is
identified with these results. Tom. L Beauchamp adds,
Consequentialism asserts that actions are right or wrong
according to their consequences, rather than because of
any intrinsic features they may have such as truthfulness
or beauty. There are several types of utilitarian theory,
but they hold in common that the rightness or wrongness

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
of actions and practices is determined solely by their
consequences; what makes an action morally right or
wrong is the total good or evil it produces. This
contention distinguishes utilitarianism from ethical
theories maintaining that the act itself has moral value
part from the good or evil produced.72
Utilitarianism, on the other hand, is concerned only with the
consequence of happiness or pleasure. According to John Stuart
Mill, the best known proponent of utilitarianism,
The creed which accepts, as the foundation of morals,
Utility, or the Greatest-happiness Principle, holds that
actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote
happiness, wrong as they tend to produce the reverse of
happiness. By happiness is intended pleasure and the
absence of pain; by unhappiness, pain and privation of
pleasure.73
Mill’s idea obviously implies that actions must be judged by
their consequences for happiness and unhappiness.
From a Bahá’í perspective, consequentialism and utilitarian-
ism put the cart before the horse: an action is not good because
it leads to positive results and/or makes us happy but it leads to
positive results and/or makes us happy because God’s authority
makes it good. The rightness or goodness of moral injunctions
is ensured by the inherent legitimacy, authority, universality
bestowed by God’s commands. These are precisely the “intrinsic
features” which make an act good. If moral commands do not
exemplify harmony with God’s Will, i.e. if they are not based on
God’s legitimacy, authority and universality, they are not right
or good regardless of their seemingly positive consequences
and/or happiness to which they lead. (Once again, we recall the
“hospital
scenario.)
In
other
words,
positive,
happy
consequences alone — even if they benefit a majority — are not
sufficient to make a command or an action moral. The moral

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
rightness of an act is not intrinsic to it but comes from God’s
Will.
Because actions must reflect the intrinsic goodness of God’s
commands in addition to producing happiness, Bahá’í ethics
also avoid the problem of the end justifying the means. No
matter how much happiness or supposed positive results an
action may bring, it is not moral if it violates God’s command.
Indeed, there may be actions society considers socially good or
acceptable that do not agree with God’s commands, and,
therefore, even though they appear to bring happiness at least in
the short-run, will not bring “the greatest good for the greatest
number” in the long run. These seemingly positive actions may
be spiritually bad.
This means that from a Bahá’í perspective, the positive social
utility or consequences are not sufficient to make an action
good. Furthermore, the utilitarian and consequentialist view is
incomplete because it only concerns itself with one aspect of
human nature and society — namely our material and not our
spiritual well-being. However, the Bahá’í Writings indicate such
an incomplete understanding of human nature inevitably leads
to negative results and/or unhappiness for individuals and
societies. Such truncated views of human nature are unrealistic
because, in this case, the spiritual nature of man will eventually
demand its due and if this is not forthcoming, serious problems
will arise. For their part, the Bahá’í Writings recognize that
both our material as well as spiritual natures must be satisfied
and developed.
Of course, because God’s moral commands reflect His love
for His creation, they also benefit humankind and bring
happiness. However, happiness may not always conform to our
pre-conceptions; positive results make take unexpected forms.
This is where the Bahá’í Writings distinguish themselves from
utilitarianism in particular: the Writings do not necessarily
regard suffering — be it physical or spiritual — as always
inherently bad. This puts them at odds with utilitarian ethics

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
which see happiness as the standard for morality. In regards to
suffering, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
The labourer cuts up the earth with his plough, and from
that earth comes the rich and plentiful harvest. The more
a man is chastened, the greater is the harvest of spiritual
virtues shown forth by him. [PT 51]
As Bahá’u’lláh says,
O Thou Whose tests are a healing medicine to such as are
nigh unto Thee, Whose sword is the ardent desire of all
them that love Thee ... I implore Thee, by Thy divine
sweetness and by the splendors of the glory of Thy face,
to send down upon us from Thy retreats on high that
which will enable us to draw nigh unto Thee. [PM 220]
In the Arabic Hidden Words, God states, “My calamity is My
providence, outwardly it is fire and vengeance, but inwardly it
is light and mercy.”74 Events that feel bad “outwardly” i.e. in a
worldly sense, are not necessarily bad because they lead to
positive spiritual results. The negative outward experiences may
be the means to a greater, i.e. happier spiritual goal.
A worldly illustration of this is a training camp for a hockey
team. Recruits are put through strenuous even ‘unfair’ physical
and psychological suffering but in the process of suffering they
actualize and develop their skills, they acquire the discipline of
being part of a team and they develop an all important ‘team-
spirit’ necessary for success. Are they happy? Indeed, they are,
even when they are uncomfortable — because we should never
confuse comfort with happiness. They are happy because they
are doing what it is in their nature to do i.e. they have a
teleological happiness (despite the distress and anxiety) that is
not in the utilitarian world-view. In this sense, they have
Aristotle’s well-being or eudemonia which is foreign to Bentham
and Mill’s utilitarianism. A consequentialist might be able to
accept such a concept of teleological happiness up to a point —

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
but s/he will not be able to accept the spiritual results which
must also count as consequences to be evaluated. In our view,
the Bahá’í view of happiness is, theologically speaking, closeness
to God and philosophically speaking the fullest possible
actualization of our spiritual and physical capacities. This
becomes clearer when we distinguish between being comfortable
and contented and having growing pains which inevitably move
us closer towards completion and maturity.
In the Bahá’í view, there is, ultimately, really only one way to
attain happiness in its fullest measure and that is to fulfill our
final cause which is know God and to worship Him as sated by
the Noonday Prayer. Without fulfilling our final cause we
cannot truly be our true selves, i.e. we cannot fulfill our own
purpose and destiny and, therefore, remain deeply alienated
from our own lives. In that case, how can we be anything but
incomplete, unfulfilled — in a word, unhappy? If we are
unhappy at such a fundamental level, it is difficult to see how
we can bring genuine happiness to others. Thus, the prime or
foundational motivation is intrinsic, i.e. spiritual self-
actualization, i.e. knowing and worshipping God, which is the
necessary and sufficient condition for carrying out the mandate
to help spiritual healing to the world. This second motivation is
extrinsic. Both kinds of motivation are necessary and present
but the order is architectonic: knowing and worshipping God is
the foundation from which other motives must develop. To
actualize our final cause we must follow the Manifestation for
our age.
12. Kant’s Deontology and the Bahá’í Writings
In Groundwork of a Metaphysic of Morals (1797), Immanuel
Kant presents his theory of deontological meta-ethics according
to which morals must be based solely on a priori reasoning
about duty or obligations. He defines duty as “the necessity to
act out of reverence for the law.”75 Moreover, in contradiction
to consequentialism, utilitarianism or pragmatism, he believes

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
that “Empirical principles are always unfitted to serve as a
ground
for
moral
laws”76
because
of
ever-changing
circumstances. He also wants to avoid any dependence on
religious revelation as a basis of ethics. His final position is
simple: only when we do our duty for the sake of doing our
duty can we be moral. A good act performed out of fear or
ambition or even love may be ‘right’ but it is not moral.77 Kant
writes,
Therefore, nothing but the idea of the law in itself,
which admittedly is present on in a rational being ... can
constitute that pre-eminent good which we call moral, a
good which is already present in the person acting on
this idea and has not to be awaited merely from the
result.78
A few comments are in order before going further. From a
Bahá’í perspective, Kant’s meta-ethic is built on poor
foundations insofar as the Writings do not regard human reason
alone as a sufficient basis for morals. Because of its inherent
limitations, reason cannot meet the problems of legitimacy and
power that we have explored above. What human being can
claim to have the legitimacy, i.e. the complete knowledge, the
infallible understanding and the infinite goodness to make
absolute judgments about moral acts and to demand our
adherence to his/her laws? Moreover, since legitimacy without
power is impotent, what human being can claim to have the
power to impose his/her moral rules in one way or another by
means of consequences?79 Who has the power necessary to
enable people everywhere to follow these rules despite their
short-comings and weaknesses? At this point it is already clear
that the Bahá’í Writings are at odds with Kant’s deontological
meta-ethics.
Another reason for the difference between the Writings and
Kant’s deontology is the teleological foundation of the Bahá’í
meta-ethic. The teleological nature of humankind means that
our actions are aimed at achieving a certain goal and for this

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
reason alone are not done strictly for the sake of duty itself as
required by Kant’s ethics. Acting for love of God — as advised
in the Noonday Prayer — also prevents action purely for the
sake of duty itself.
At this point it is important to avoid confusing the good will
which Kant posits as the foundation of truly moral action and
deontologic ethics. According to Kant, “It is impossible to
conceive anything at all in the world, or even out of it which
can be taken as good without qualification, except a good
will.”80 All other virtues depend on good will. In the Arabic
Hidden Words, Bahá’u’lláh states
O SON OF SPIRIT!
My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and
radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient,
imperishable and everlasting.81
This is the foundation in which our actions and moral
reasoning should rest. On this matter the Writings and Kant are
in agreement. However, saying that actions must be based on
good will and a “pure, kindly and radiant heart” is not the same
as saying that an action must be performed for its own sake and
not for any other goal, teleologic or otherwise. Basing actions
on good will does not lead to a deontologic view of ethics in the
Bahá’í case.
Kant’s statement about the foundation of good will reveals
another deficiency in Kant’s meta-ethics. Just how is good will
or purity of heart to be attained? What are the necessary and
sufficient conditions for acquiring it? Kant is silent on this issue
— and for that reason his deontological meta-ethic lacks a solid
foundation which it cannot explain. The Bahá’í Writings, on the
other hand, do not have this problem in as much as good will
towards our fellow man is generated by our love for God.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
Love the creatures for the sake of God and not for
themselves. You will never become angry or impatient if
you love them for the sake of God. Humanity is not
perfect ... if you look toward God, you will love them
and be kind to them, for the world of God is the world
of perfection and complete mercy. [PUP 92]
It is worth noting that this fits in well with divine command
theory which makes God, not humanity, the center and basis of
all ethics.
Kant has three rules or categorical imperatives, i.e. rules
without exceptions, in order to help us identify what our duty
is. We already know that it cannot be the consequences of an
act since an action is good in and of itself whatever the
consequences might be. In other words,
Certain kinds of acts are intrinsically right and other
kinds intrinsically wrong. The rightness or wrongness of
any particular act is thus not (or not wholly) determined
by the goodness or badness of its consequences.82
The first form of the categorical imperative states, “Act only
on that maxim through which you can at the same time will that
it should become a universal law.”83 In everyday language, we
appeal to this form of the imperative when we ask about a
behavior, ‘What if everybody else did that?” The obvious
implication is that if an act is not all right for everyone, it is
not all right for any individual. As common sense guidance this
form of the categorical imperative is good — as long as
universal good will remains foundational. From a Bahá’í
perspective, the first form of the categorical imperative is not
so much ‘wrong’ as insufficient because it is ‘empty,’ i.e. it
prescribes nothing in particular, and even worse, as a standard
for judging moral acts it only rules out hypocrisy. Any action
can pass this test as long as we are willing to allow others to do
the same. Indeed, like some revolutionaries — Lenin for
example, we can convince ourselves that our harsh deeds were

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
examples of good will in the long run. A moral maxim that, in
the last analysis, only rules out hypocrisy is not specific enough
to genuinely practical. It is just too wishy-washy.
The second of Kant’s categorical imperatives states,
Act in such a way that you always treat humanity,
whether in your own person or in the person of any
other, never simply as a means but always at the same
time as an end.84
In short, we should not use people only for our own
advantage. Of course, we all use people in some way by hiring
them to work for us, but by paying them fairly, we also treat
them as ends. The second form of the categorical imperative is
clearly in agreement with the Writings insofar as everyone is an
‘end’ and, therefore, innately valuable and to be cherished. This
harmonizes with the Bahá’í belief that all humans are made in
the image of God, although, of course, Kant does not say so.
Moreover, the harmonization with the Writings is clear vis-à-vis
treating each individual as an “end,” in a way that is conducive
to their spiritual growth and actualization of their “spiritual
susceptibilities” as well as other gifts.
The third form of the categorical imperative states,
A rational being must always regard himself as making
laws in a kingdom of ends which is possible through
freedom of the will — whether it be as a member or as a
head.85
The “kingdom of ends” refers to a mental construct of a
kingdom, “a systematic union of rational beings under common
objective law”86 in which members are both means and ends in
their relation to one another. In the “kingdom of ends” the
three forms of the categorical imperative are the common
rational laws by which people judge their own and each others’
actions. From our perspective on the Bahá’í Writings, the

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
concept of the “kingdom of ends” is interesting because it
invites people to think of themselves as members of an ideal
community and to act as if such were real in the here and now.
In short, it helps us to improve or ‘idealize’ our behavior and
speech. This — in our view — is exactly what we strive for in our
Bahá’í communities: an idealized community which encourages
us to practice speech and action in accordance with the
Writings.
In our view, the major problem with Kant’s meta-ethical
approach is its absolute reliance on reason. The Writings
obviously reject the concept that reason alone is a sufficient
basis for meta-ethics since that would obviate any need for God
or the Manifestations in humanity’s ethical life. Another
problem is the non-teleological view of human nature. Kant’s
presentation of his meta-ethical theory in Groundwork of the
Metaphysic of Morals lacks any mention or even hint that
humanity has as natural and super-natural vocation, and,
therefore, leaves out significant aspects of human nature that
must be accounted for in ethics. In short, while Kant’s theory is
clear and logically coherent, it has a tendency to be a Procrustes’
Bed that oversimplifies ethical issues as we have already seen
vis-à-vis good will and the first form of the categorical
imperative.
13. A Non-Naturalist Meta-ethic
In 1903, G.E. Moore published Principia Ethica, one of the
key texts in modern and contemporary ethics. Moore’s “mode
of inquiry was later to be known as metaethic — the
philosophizing about the very terms of ethics and considering
the structure of ethics as an object of inquiry.”87 Moore had a
startlingly simple suggestion: ethics is “the general enquiry into
what is good.”88 The ‘good,’ however, turns out to be more
difficult to identify than we might think. Moreover, he rejected
as “the naturalist fallacy” any attempt to reduce or explain the
meaning of ‘the good’ in such empirical or natural terms as the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
practical, or the greatest good for the greatest number, or
conformity to natural law or any other empirical terms. This
because we cannot reduce ethical terms to non-ethical terms
without falling into a logical category mistake, i.e. conflating
and confusing two different kinds of things, such as horse shoes
and sea cucumbers. Doing so leads to mistaken conclusions.
Moore writes,
My point is that good is a simple notion, just as yellow
is a simple notion; that, just as you cannot, by any
manner of means, explain to anyone who does not
already know it, what yellow is, so you cannot explain
what good is.89
The ‘good’ is a simple fact and cannot be broken down and
explained in simpler terms. Like the color yellow, it is either
apprehended it is not. No amount of explanation can make a
blind man understand what yellow is, and no naturalist,
empirical explanation can inform us what the good is. Moore
identifies the attempt to offer such empirical accounts of the
‘good’ as “the naturalistic fallacy.”90 Such accounts are
fallacious because they confuse and conflate (1) what is
empirical with (2) what is ethical. Like Hume, Moore maintains
these two orders or kinds of things are not and cannot be
related. Unless we are working in a theistic system ‘is’ cannot
lead to ‘ought.’ Thus, even though an action has positive
consequences, is desirable and/or pragmatic we cannot
necessarily conclude that an action is ‘good.’
According to Moore, our understanding of ‘the good’ must
come by strictly non-natural, non-empirical means, such as an
insight into Platonic Ideas. Moore himself seems to take such a
Platonic position, stating,
The Ethics of Plato are distinguished by upholding, far
more clearly and consistently than any other system, the
view that intrinsic value belongs exclusively to those

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
states of mind which consist in love of what is good or
hatred of what is evil.91
The Bahá’í Writings both agree and disagree with Moore. The
fact that Moore’s ‘good’ transcends empirical knowledge
corresponds to the fact that in the Writings God, Who is the
good, also transcends empirical knowledge. Because the ‘good’
is transcendent, it is obvious that no empirical and naturalistic
characterizations of it will be adequate. That is why God is
essentially unknowable. Moore’s intuitionism — the sense of
knowing directly without empirical explanation of evidence —
finds its counterpart in the Bahá’í teaching that inspiration
from the “spirit of faith” is necessary to attain true knowledge.
This applies not just to the things we can reason about but to
spiritual truths as well. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
But the human spirit [the rational soul], unless assisted
by the spirit of faith, does not become acquainted with
the divine secrets and the heavenly realities. It is like a
mirror which, although clear, polished and brilliant, is
still in need of light. Until a ray of the sun reflects upon
it, it cannot discover the heavenly secrets.92
Knowledge of ‘the good’ may be reasonably seen as part of
the “divine secrets and the heavenly realities.” Until reason is
augmented by the spirit of faith, we are “veiled souls” [SAQ 239]
unable to recognize or intuit the good or intuit the good to our
fullest capacity. In other words, there comes a point at which
humans simply have to recognize or intuit the existence of the
good the way they recognize the sun — not by argument but by
looking. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says about the immortality of the
soul:
if the inner sight becomes opened, and the spiritual
hearing
strengthened,
and
the
spiritual
feelings
predominant, he will see the immortality of the spirit as
clearly as he sees the sun.93

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Similarly, when our spiritual sight is opened, we will ‘see’ or
intuit the existence of God Who is also the ultimate good. We
will do so without benefit of inferential reasoning. Although by
different paths, the Bahá’í Writings and Moore’s moral
intuitionism converge.
However, the Bahá’í position incorporates both Moore’s
intuitionist view and naturalistic ethics, a position made
possible by theism. The created empirical world is totally
suffused with the signs and signatures of God’s Will which in
itself is a sign of ‘the good.’
Such is their virtue that not a single atom in the entire
universe can be found which doth not declare the
evidences of His might, which doth not glorify His holy
Name, or is not expressive of the effulgent light of His
unity.94
With such a proliferation of evidence of God’s Will, it is
hard to resist the conclusion that we also gain some idea of ‘the
good’ by observation and reason. Such conceptions of ‘the
good’ are, of course, limited but they are able to tell us
something about ‘the good.’ However, such knowledge of the
good is tentative, incomplete and inadequate for the evolution
of humankind. It may be described as a ‘lure’ to direct our
thoughts and feelings in a spiritual direction but in itself, is not
adequate as knowledge of ‘the good.’ For such knowledge, and
even better knowledge of the signs of God’s Will in nature, our
“spiritual susceptibilities” must be awakened and our reasoning
must be inspired as we have discussed above.
Several important consequences follow from the foregoing
discussion. First, the Bahá’í Writings are able to form a bridge
between Moore’s non-cognitivist meta-ethics and various moral
cognitivist theories. Second, the transcendent nature of ‘the
good’ ensures that this value is objective and mind-independent
in itself; it does not depend on us for its existence or nature and
in that sense, it is like a Platonic Idea of which humans only

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
grasp fleeting images. Finally, ‘the good’ itself is changeless, like
the “eternal verities.” Of course, our perspective on ‘the good’
changes — but the change is in us, not in ‘the good.’
14. Moral Cognitivism (Ethical Realism) or Non-
cognitivism
Perhaps the most basic division in meta-ethics is between
cognitive and non-cognitive theories. All ethical theories
advocate or tend towards one or the other. Moral cognitivism
(or moral realism) refers to
Ethical theories that hold that there is knowledge of
moral facts and that normative ethical judgments can be
said to be true or false. Cognitivism includes the
majority of traditional ethical theories. In contrast, non-
cognitivism,
represented
by
emotivism
and
prescriptivism, holds that moral statements do not
possess truth-values and cannot be known.95
Another way of approaching this subject is to ask,
Is there moral knowledge? (And also, do moral
statements make knowledge claims?) [as well as] Is there
moral truth? (And also, do moral judgments make truth
claims?)96
In both of these descriptions of cognitive meta-ethics the key
issue is whether or not moral truths exist mind-independently,
or whether all moral statements are merely subjective opinions
with no objective content. If such truths are objective, then
they are obviously mind-independent and their essences not
determined by human observers. (Human observers may have
different perspectives on such truths but that does not affect
the essence or nature of the truth itself.) As Andrew Fisher says,
“To be a moral realist is to think that moral properties are real
and that these properties are in some sense independent of what

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
people think.”97 Neither individual thought nor collective
cultural beliefs can make or negate objective moral truths.
Furthermore, cognitivism holds there are objectively real moral
properties, qualities or attributes that we can associate with
such terms as ‘good,’ ‘evil,’ ‘true’ or ‘false.’ This, of course, is
at odds with G.E. Moore’s central claim that ‘the good’ cannot
be related to anything else. Finally, according to moral
cognitivism, moral judgments can be true or false, which means
that moral judgments can assert truth claims.
In the Bahá’í Writings, it is clear that humans are not the
creators of their own morals. We receive our morals from God,
which, of course, makes them completely mind-independent as
well as ontologically real and objective. In this sense, the Bahá’í
Writings converge with Plato’s theory that ‘goodness’ or ‘the
good’ has objective existence in the supersensible world of
Ideas just as the moral teachings revealed by the Manifestations
reflects God’s knowledge about what is ethically good for
humankind. What God knows to be true and best for us (as
revealed by the Manifestations) cannot help but be real and
objective, i.e. cannot help but exist independently from human
perception, belief and judgment. How could we rely on
ourselves to invent morals when we inherently lack the divine
omnipotence which enables God to know what moral standards
are best suited to the human nature He has created?
In sharp contrast to cognitivism, non-cognitivism rejects all
of the foregoing assertions. Non-cognitivism maintains that the
truth (or falsity) of moral propositions is mind-dependent, i.e.
depends on the individual or collective making the proposition.
Truth or falsity are not objective and cannot be proven true or
untrue. There are no real i.e. mind-independent moral qualities
or attributes that can be used to prove or disprove a moral
judgment. One of the most famous non-cognitive meta-ethical
theories is A. J. Ayer’s emotivism according to which ethical
statements do not describe anything, i.e. they do not tell us
what something is like and they do not prescribe anything i.e.
they do not show us any obligation. According to Ayer’s

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
emotivism, moral ‘statements’ really only express feelings.
“Murder is bad” really means nothing more than “Murder —
Boo! Hiss!” Obviously such statements cannot be judged as
either true or false because there is no way to verify them, they
are purely subjective i.e. mind-dependent, and have no real
moral content. All they tell us is that someone disapproves of
murder — which is not in itself an ethical statement. There is no
possibility here of identifying good and evil in the acts
themselves because such moral content must be extraneously by
us. Clearly, the meaning of ‘good’ has been reduced to an
exclamation without any intellectual content about the nature
of ‘good’ or its distinction from ‘evil.’
In
our
view,
Bahá’í
meta-ethics
exemplify
ethical
cognitivism. `Abdu’l-Bahá points out that
[e]ach of the divine religions embodies two kinds of
ordinances. The first is those which concern spiritual
susceptibilities, the development of moral principles and
the quickening of the conscience of man. These are
essential or fundamental, one and the same in all
religions, changeless and eternal — reality not subject to
transformation. [PUP 106]
Nothing here suggests that humans create or invent these
fundamental moral values on their own or, indeed, have any
kind of influence on them. They are ‘platonic’ insofar as they
transcend the phenomenal realm although they should not be
understood as Platonic Ideas present in their own realm.
However, there is no question that they are mind-independent,
are real and objective and have real content in and of
themselves.
`Abdu’l-Bahá declares that the first of two kinds of
ordinances
constitute essential, or spiritual, teachings of the Word
of God. These are faith in God, the acquirement of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
virtues
which
characterize
perfect
manhood,
praiseworthy moralities, the acquisition of the bestowals
and bounties emanating from the divine effulgences — in
brief, the ordinances which concern the realm of morals
and ethics.98
It should be noted that `Abdu’l-Bahá refers to the virtues we
need as “the ordinances which concern the realm of morals and
ethics.99 These, he tells us, come from God. Moreover, to attain
“perfect manhood” — a concept which also implies an objective
standard by which to judge — we must acquire certain attributes
and ethical qualities. The key is that we must acquire them from
the “Word of God,” not that we should invent or choose them
for themselves. Humans have no role in deciding the nature of
“perfect manhood” or of “praiseworthy moralities.” `Abdu’l-
Bahá also makes it clear that humanity is completely dependent
on the Manifestations for our knowledge of ethics. They are the
“divine Educators” [PUP 345] of humankind.
The holy Manifestations of God come into the world to
dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of
man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that
his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened,
his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his
potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the
world of humanity latent within him may come to life.
These holy Manifestations of God are the Educators and
Trainers of the world of existence, the Teachers of the
world of humanity. They liberate man from the darkness
of the world of nature, deliver him from despair, error,
ignorance, imperfections and all evil qualities. They
clothe him in the garment of perfections and exalted
virtue ... Man is base, treacherous and mean; the
Manifestations of God uplift him into dignity, nobility
and loftiness.100

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
The values brought by the Manifestations are remedies for
our “despair, error, ignorance, imperfections and all evil
qualities,” i.e. it is the Manifestations and not human beings
who bring these values. The fact that “[m]an is base,
treacherous and mean” shows that we lack the ability to
identify, awaken, actualize and establish the values that are
appropriate for us. That is why the Manifestations are
necessary. This, too, shows that humans do not invent their
fundamental values.
For his part, Shoghi Effendi also refers to objective, mind-
independent ethics when he writes, “But when true religion is
combined with true ethics, then moral progress becomes a
possibility and not a mere ideal.”101 He also says, “We should
take our stand on a higher plane of moral and spiritual life and,
setting for them the true example, urge them up to our level.”102
Here, too, we observe both directly and by implication that
there are, indeed, moral truths and even a hierarchy of moral
development about which we can have genuine knowledge.
These and other statements make it clear that humans are not
the creators of their own morals. We receive our morals from
God, which, of course, makes them completely mind-
independent as well as ontologically real and objective. In this
sense, the Bahá’í Writings converge with Plato’s theory that
‘goodness’ or ‘the good’ has objective existence in the
supersensible world of Ideas just as the moral teachings revealed
by the Manifestations reflects God’s knowledge about what is
ethically good for humankind. What God knows to be true and
best for us (as revealed by the Manifestations) cannot help but
be real and objective, i.e. cannot help but exist independently
from human perception, belief and judgment. How could we
rely on ourselves to invent morals when we inherently lack the
divine omnipotence which enables God to know what moral
standards are best suited to the human nature He has created?

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
14.1 Subjectivity and Relativism
It may be argued that subjectivity and, in that sense, non-
cognitivism enters Bahá’í ethics insofar as people are entitled to
their own understanding of the Manifestation’s moral
pronouncements or the declarations of His authorized
interpreters.
Everyone
has
a
right
to
such
personal
understanding and no individual has the right to insist on the
acceptance of his or her viewpoints. However, it is just as
important to remember that having rights does not make our
opinions immune from analysis or critique as indicated by
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “The shining spark of truth
cometh forth only after the clash of differing opinions.” [SWAB
87] In other words, while we all have the right to our own
understandings, there is no necessary expectation to exemption
from respectful analysis. Moreover, having a right to a certain
understandings does not guarantee that all understandings are
equally well supported by the Writings or equally well reasoned
or equally relevant to a passage.103 In other words, the Writings
do not forbid clashing opinions but they do forbid an insistence
that others must accept our views. Finally, it should be noted
that not all understandings are cognitive — some may be
emotive or may express attitudes instead of making declarative
propositions
about
ethics
or
the
world.
Since
such
understandings or interpretations are not cognitive, they cannot
be declared to be true or false.
The right to hold our own understandings is a de jure right
belonging to the person and not to the argument s/he is making.
This should not be confused with relativism which asserts that
all view are true or must be regarded as true from some
perspective and that we have no standard by which to judge
moral actions. If that were the case, we would have to reject
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “we must train the immature to
proper or true moral standards: Some have unworthy morals; we
must train them toward the standard of true morality.”104 There
are objective, “changeless and eternal” [PUP 106] moral rights

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
and wrongs, i.e. the “eternal verities” which the Manifestations
provide for our use. Declaring some people to be “immature” in
a moral sense also implies that there exists an object, mind-
independent standard by which to make a judgment. The
existence of “true” morals is a claim that negates any notion
that all moral positions can be considered correct from some
particular point of view. If values had no objective and real
status and could not be known with some degree of accuracy,
then the Writings would be useless in providing moral guidance
since all such guidance would be reduced to conflicting
opinions that would only revive the tower of Babel.105
From the foregoing, it seems clear that we should not
confuse the right to personal opinion about the Writings with
relativism which is position about the truth-value of our
opinions. The first is unchallengeable insofar as it grows out of
the independent search for truth while the second is a logically
dubious position that makes ethical knowledge and unity
impossible and, as we have seen, is flatly contradicted by the
Writings. In ethics, relativism is especially dangerous because it
abolishes the difference between servants to humanity such as
Mother Teresa and servants of evil ideologies such as Dr.
Mengele — a problem also present in non-cognitivist ethics
where ethics are simply feelings or attitudes. The idea that the
differences between them are only a matter of perspective
seems perverse. Such a confusion is incompatible with the whole
purpose of the Writings which is to lift our morality above
those of Josef Mengele.
To conclude: the meta-ethics of Writings exemplify a
foundational cognitivism although there is some room for
subjectivity in the interpretation of moral guidance.
14.2 Two Opponents to Bahá’í Cognitivism
Naturally, there are various non-cognitive or antirealist meta-
ethical theories that disagree with the Bahá’í Writings about the
truth and falsity of ethical propositions. One of these is the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
influential meta-ethical view known as “error theory”106 which
asserts that without exception all ethical propositions,
judgments and injunctions are false. They report nothing about
the world, i.e. they are not knowledge, and, therefore, have no
truth value. They can neither be falsified nor confirmed. J.L.
Mackie, the main proponents of error theory writes,
But the denial of objective values will have to be put
forward ... as an ‘error theory,’ a theory that although
most people in making moral judgments implicitly claim
... to be pointing to something objectively descriptive,
these claims are all false. It is this that makes ‘moral
scepticism’ appropriate.107
The most obvious consequence of J.L. Mackie’s statements is
that if moral propositions and judgments “are all false,” then
ethics ceases to exist as a subject. There is simply no point in
pursuing such so-called ‘knowledge’ and there is no validity in
trying to teach these judgments to others. Since error theory is
unable to say that any action is either moral or immoral, some
writers have identified it as a form of ethical nihilism,108 a
viewpoint with which we concur. Of course, this does not mean
that error theorists or ethical nihilists cannot judge whether an
action is socially useful, or pleasure-giving or convenient in a
utilitarian sense but those judgments would have to be made on
non-ethical grounds, and, therefore, are not really ethical in
nature. For example, we can say ‘Feeding the poor is good’ for
ethical reasons because it is morally positive to treat God’s
children well, or, we can say it is ‘good’ for law-and-order
reasons because it prevents food riots. The first statement is
untenable for Mackie, the second, non-ethical statement is
acceptable.
Error theory negates the purpose of the Manifestations to
teach us how to distinguish good from evil. Bahá’u’lláh exhorts
us to “Forsake all evil, hold fast that which is good” [TB 138] —
an impossible task if good and evil did not have objective
existence and if we cannot distinguish the two. The same can be

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
said of the statement that “the choice of good or evil belongs to
the man himself.” [SAQ 249] Indeed, if there were no objective
distinctions between good and evil, why would humans need a
Manifestation to reveal ethical rules to help our individual and
collective progress? How could we even believe in ethical
progress, i.e. advancement from lower to higher moral
development? There could be no “eternal verities” [PDC 108] for
successive Manifestations to reaffirm. In short, meta-ethical
error theory negates the very foundations of Bahá’í ethical
teachings and cannot be harmonized with them. Even of error
theory were to allow the Manifestations a special kind of ethical
knowledge, error theory still has to maintain that the way
humans
interpret
these
exceptional
pronouncements
is
inherently false. Consequently, practicing ethics is impossible.
Postmodernism, in all its various forms, is another
philosophical movement that rejects the ethical cognitivism and
realism found in the Bahá’í Writings.109 In general terms, this
philosophy represents an
an anti- (or post) epistemological standpoint; anti-
essentialism;
anti-foundationalism;
opposition
to
transcendental
arguments
and
transcendental
standpoints; rejection of the picture of knowledge as
accurate
representation;
rejection
of
truth
as
correspondence to reality; rejection of the very idea of
canonical descriptions, rejection of final vocabularies,
i.e. rejection of principles, distinctions, and descriptions
that are thought to be unconditionally binding for all
times, persons, and places; and a suspicion of grand
narratives, metanarratives of the sort perhaps best
illustrated by dialectical materialism.110
This description shows why postmodernism is not compatible
with the Bahá’í Writings except in accidental features.111 Their
positions on various fundamental issues are antithetical and,
therefore, any similarities are coincidental rather than the
products of harmonious basic principles. The teleological view

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
of humanity and the definition of the human spirit as the
“rational soul” show that, postmodernism to the contrary, the
Writings clearly espouse essentialism, as does the natural law
meta-ethic. The Writings have a well-developed theory of man.
The Manifestations are not only privileged knowers but also
introduce “transcendental standpoints” into our ethical
discourse. The “eternal verities” and the “changeless and
eternal” guidance from the Manifestations is — postmodernism
notwithstanding — “binding for all times, persons, and places.”
Furthermore, ‘progressive revelation’ is exactly the kind of
grand
or
metanarrative
that
postmodernism
rejects.
Furthermore, the tremendous emphasis on reason and the
rationality of religion and science in the Writings both in
empirical and spiritual matters has no counterpart in
postmodern literature. Finally, the Bahá’í Writings are
committed to finding the truth which corresponds to reality as
seen in the following declaration:
It means that man must forget all hearsay and examine
truth himself, for he does not know whether statements
he hears are in accordance with reality or not. Wherever
he finds truth or reality, he must hold to it, forsaking,
discarding all else; for outside of reality there is naught
but superstition and imagination.112
Elsewhere, he says, “we discover the realities of all things,”
[PUP 264] which means that our discoveries correspond to what is
‘out there.’ In addition, he asserts, “He has endowed him [man]
with mind, or the faculty of reasoning, by the exercise of which
he is to investigate and discover the truth, and that which he
finds real and true he must accept.”113 The very purpose of
reason is the discovery of truth: “God has created man in order
that he may perceive the verity of existence and endowed him
with mind or reason to discover truth.”114
Discovering the truth in the Writings includes discovering
the truth about ethics. This is precisely what Richard Rorty, one
of the quintessential postmodern philosophers, rejects. He sees

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
no value in objectivity which he dismisses as wanting a “sky-
hook provided by some contemporary yet-to-be-developed
science”115 to free us from the biases of being culture-bound
because he does not think we can ever escape being imprisoned
in our cultures. Therefore,
[t]hose who wish to reduce objectivity to solidarity —
call them “pragmatists” — do not require either a
metaphysics or an epistemology. They view truths as, in
William James’ phrase, what is good for us to believe. So
they do not need an account of a relation between
beliefs and objects called ‘correspondence’ nor an
account of human cognitive abilities which ensures that
our species is capable of entering into that relation ...
For pragmatists, the desire for objectivity is not the
desire to escape the limitations of one’s community but
simply the desire to for as much intersubjective
agreement as possible.116
When the idea of replacing the quest for truth in ethics is
replaced with the quest for solidarity — which is not an ethical
category but a political one, we have, perhaps reached the end
of ethics. In short, politics is to replace ethics since there is
really nothing to know — only a consensus to negotiate. On
Rorty’s view, philosophy cannot be a quest for ‘truth’ or ‘true
understanding’ since the most we can do is redescribe things to
our individual and/or collective liking and converse about our
various descriptions. In other words, the purpose of philosophy
is to be edifying: “I shall is ‘edification’ to stand for this project
of finding new, better, more interesting more fruitful ways of
speaking.”117 Edifying philosophy “takes its point of departure
from suspicion about the pretensions of epistemology,”118 i.e.,
edifying philosophy is not longer interested in attaining truth.119
Thus, rather than take part in an inquiry for the ‘knowledge,’
“we just might be saying something”120 simply in order to “keep
the conversation going rather than to find objective truth.”121
This, for Rorty is “a sufficient aim of philosophy.”122

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The concept that ethics is merely “edifying” conversation
that just goes on — until we attain, for now, anyway —
solidarity, is wholly incompatible with the serious business of
ethics as seen in the Bahá’í Writings. The problem is that it is
incredibly dangerous. As people who have lived under the most
brutal dictatorships of the last century know, sometimes
solidarity with crowd is treason to humanity. Sometimes
solidarity with injustice is the last thing we want and is simply
unethical to the roots. Yet, by Rorty’s standards, we cannot
know which choice to make. Transforming the epistemological
and ethical into the political is not only a huge logical category
mistake, it is also a huge ethical mistake because it assumes that
ethics can be negotiated and bargained with in order to achieve
some compromise satisfactory to all. This kind of ‘solidarity’
should not be mistaken for the ‘unity’ taught by the Writings
which is based on commitment and obedience to God’s law and
guidance instead of a quest for an edifying conversation.
15: Conclusion
Our survey of the major meta-ethical theories makes it clear
that Bahá’í meta-ethics form a logically coherent and consistent
whole. While there is doubtlessly much more to be added as all
kinds of implications and inferences are pursued, the outlines of
Bahá’í meta-ethics are plainly visible. These ally the Writings
with
foundationalism,
natural
law
meta-ethics,
non-
consequentialism, virtue ethics, ethical realism and objectivism,
divine command theory, eudaimonian ethics, cognitivism and
non-relativism.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Aristotle. Nicomachean Ethics. Trans by W.D. Ross. Chicago.
Encyclopedia Britannica 1971.
Audi, Robert., editor. The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2
Ayer, A.J. The Central Questions of Philosophy. Harmondsworth,
Penguin Books, 1973.
Beauchamp, Tom L. Philosophical Ethics. Second Edition. New York:
McGraw-Hill, 1982.
Bunnin, Nicholas, and Yu, Jiyuan. The Blackwell Dictionary of
Western Philosophy. Malden, CA: 2009.
Driver, Julia. Ethics: The Fundamentals. Malden, Ma.. Blackwell,
2007.
Fisher, Andrew. Metaethics: An Introduction. Durham, U.K..
Acumen: 2011.
Foot, Philippa. Natural Goodness. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 2001.
Hinman, Lawrence M. Ethics: A Pluralistic Approach to Moral
Theory. Second Edition. New York: Harcourt Brace, 1998.
Honderich, Ted. editor. The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. New
York: Oxford University Press, 1995.
Graham, Gordon. Eight Theories of Ethics. New York: Routledge,
2004.
Kant, Immanuel. Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals.
Translated by H.J. Paton. New York: Harper Torch Books, 1956.
Kirchin, Simon. Metaethics. Palgrave MacMillan. London, 2012.
MacKinnon, Barbara. Ethics: Theory and Contemporary Issues.
Belmont, Ca.. Wadsworth, 2007.
Moore, G.E. Principia Ethica. http://fair-use.org/g-e-
moore/principia-ethica
Pojman, Loius P. Ethics. Fourth Edition. Belmont Ca: Wadsworth,
2002.
Russell, Bertrand. Ed. Robert Egner. The Basic Writings of Bertrand
Russell. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1961. Dennon.
Sahakian, William S. Ethics: An Introduction to Theories and
Problems. New York: Barnes and Noble, 1974.
Russell, Daniel C. editor. The Cambridge Companion to Virtue
Ethics. New York: Cambridge University press, 2013.
Schaefer, Udo. Bahá’í Ethics in Light of Scripture. 2 Volumes.
Oxford: George Ronald, 2009.
Taylor, Richard. Virtue Ethics. New York: Prometheus Books, 2002.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

NOTES
1 Douglas Rasmussen in Henry B Veatch, Rational Man, p. xi.
2 Robert Audi, general editor , The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, p.
599.
3 Louis J Pojman, Ethics, p. 45.
4 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, Book I, 1, 1094a; emphasis added.
5 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, Book I, 1094a.
6 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, Book I, 1097a,b.
7 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, Book X, 7, 1098a.
8 PT 72; emphasis added.
9 Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologica, I — II Q 90 A1; emphasis added.
10 Frederick Copleston, S.J.,A History of Philosophy, Vol. 2, Part 1, p. 272.
Also Joseph Constanzo S.J., “Papal Magisterium, Natural Law and
Humanae Vitae,” http://ewtn.com/library/DOCTRINE/PMHV.TXT
11 David Hume, A Treatise on Human Nature, III, 1, part 1.
12 Sam Harris, The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human
Values, p. 38.
13 For a full discussion of Harris’ book, see Ian Kluge, “Ethics Based on
Science Alone?” in Journal of Bahá’í Philosophy; forthcoming
14 GWB XC, p. 177; emphasis added.
15 Jean-Paul Sartre, Bring and Nothingness, p. 30.
16 Simone de Beauvoir, The Second Sex, in “The Nature of Nature in Femin-
ism Old and New” in Women in Christ ed. Michele Schumacher, p. 23.
17 See Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights of
Irfan, Volume 9, 2008.
18 Michelle M. Schumacher, “The Nature `of Nature in Feminism Old and
New” in Women in Christ ed. by Michele M. Schumacher, p. 26.
19 ESW 115; emphasis added.
20 The Universal House of Justice, 1993 Jun 05, Homosexuality, p. 2;
emphasis added.
21 PUP 106; emphasis added.
22 The Universal House of Justice, 1993 June 05, Homosexuality, p. 2.
23 The Universal House of Justice, 1993 June 05, Homosexuality, p. 1.
24 The main criticism of Bagemihil’s book is that he mistakes dominance
behaviors in animals — which often involve mounting the submissive one
— for sexual in nature. Anyone who has lived on a farm and seen a ‘boss

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2

cow’ “bulling” other cows will see this behavior is not sexual in nature.
Bagemihil’s flawed analysis of dominance behaviors severely undermines
the value of his book.
25 The Universal House of Justice, 1993 June 05, Homosexuality, p. 2.
26 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, Book X, 7, 1178a.
27 Udo Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics In Light of Scripture: An Introduction, Vol.
II, p. 2; original emphasis.
28 Ibid., p. 2.
29 Ibid., p. 151.
30 Ibid., p. 151.
31 Ibid., p. 148-149; emphasis added.
32 Ibid., p. 152; emphasis added.
33 Ibid., p. 152.
34 See Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings,” forthcoming publication
in the Lights of Irfan series.
35 Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics In Light of Scripture, p. 144’ emphasis added.
36 Ibid., p. 148 — 149.
37 Alister MacGrath, “McGrath’s Intellectual Origins,” Part 1.
http://threehierarchies.blogspot.ca/2005/08/mcgraths-intellectual-
origins-part-i.html
38 The Universal House of Justice, 1993 Jun 05, Homosexuality, p. 2;
emphasis added.
39 PUP 69; emphasis added.
40 PUP 240. Also Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Vol. 2. p. 286.
41 PUP 7; see also 339.
42 Bahá’í International Community, 1999 Feb, Who is Writing the Future?
43 PUP 465; emphasis added.
44 The truths of faith such as the Trinity must come from revelation.
45 Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologica, Question 91, article 2.
http://www.newadvent.org/summa/2091.htm#article2
46 PUP 330; emphasis added.
47 Paul Kurtz, Forbidden Fruit: The Ethics of Secularism; Corliss Lamont,
Philosophy of Humanism.
48 Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics In Light of Scripture, p. 153; emphasis added.
49 PUP 303; emphasis added.
50 PUP 327; emphasis added.
51 This, too, confirms one of Aristotle’s insights into the nature of reality:
only actualized things can awaken ,activate or actualize a potential. See

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights
of Irfan, Vol. 4, 2003.
52 Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics In Light of Scripture, p. 144’ emphasis added.
53 Bahá’í International Community, 1989 Feb 09, Right to Development;
emphasis added.
54 Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics In Light of Scripture, p. 144’ emphasis added.
55 Aristotle, Eudemian Ethics, I, 1, 1214a. Unlike the better known
Nicomachean Ethics, the Eudemian Ethics are more religious in nature.
56 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, X, 8, 1178a.
57 Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, VI, 13, 1144a.
58 SDC 98; emphasis added.
59 Compilations, Bahá’í Scriptures, 439; emphasis added.
60 See Aristotle’s Nichomachean Ethics.
61 Richard Wade, “Bridging Christianity, Islam and Buddhism with Virtue Ethics,”
http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-1-4020-9260-2_19
62 Philip J. Ivanhoe, “Virtue Ethics and the Chinese Confucian Tradition,” in
Daniel C. Russell, editor, The Cambridge Companion to Virtue Ethics, p
49-69.
63 Timothy Chappell, “Virtue Ethics in the Twentieth Century,” in Daniel C.
Russell, editor, The Cambridge Companion to Virtue Ethics.
64 Julia Driver, Ethics, p. 137.
65 Philippa Foot, Natural Goodness, p. 27.
66 Tom Beauchamp, Philosophical Ethics, p. 227.
67 Robert Audi, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, 2nd ed., p. 961.
68 Philip J. Ivanhoe, “Virtue Ethics and the Chinese Confucian Tradition,” in
Daniel C. Russell, ed., The Cambridge Companion to Virtue Ethics, p 58.
69 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 124;
emphasis added.
70 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 135;
emphasis added.
71 Consequentialism in The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy,
http://www.iep.utm.edu/conseque/
72 Tom L. Beauchamp, Philosophical Ethics, p. 129 — 130; emphasis added
73 John Stuart Mill, Utilitarianism in The Ethical Life ed. by Russ Shafer-
Landau, p. 17; emphasis added.
74 Bahá’u’lláh, The Arabic Hidden Words, # 51; emphasis added.
75 Immanuel Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, trans. by H.J.
Paton, p. 68.

A Meta-Ethical Excursion: Part 2

76 Immanuel Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, trans. by H.J.
Paton, p. 109.
77 Tom Beauchamp, Philosophical Ethics, p. 179.
78 Immanuel Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, trans. by H.J.
Paton, p. 69; emphasis added.
79 GWB CXII, p. 218:
“The structure of world stability and order hath been reared upon, and
will continue to be sustained by, the twin pillars of reward and
punishment.”
80 Immanuel Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, trans. by H.J.
Paton, p. 61.
81 Bahá’u’lláh, The Arabic Hidden Words, # 1; emphasis added.
82 Concise Rutledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, p. 202.
83 Immanuel Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, trans. by H.J.
Paton, p. 88.
84 Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, p. 96.
85 Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, p. 101.
86 Kant, Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, p. 101.
87 Louis P. Pojman, Ethics, p. 213.
88 G.E. Moore, Principia Ethica, Chpt. I, Section 2. http://fair-use.org/g-e-
moore/principia-ethica
89 G.E. Moore, Principia Ethica, Chpt. I Section 7.
90 G.E. Moore, Principia Ethica, Chpt. I, Section 10.
91 G.E. Moore, Principia Ethica, Chpt. V, Section 107.
92 SAQ 208; emphasis added.
93 SAQ 225; emphasis added.
94 Bahá’u’lláh,, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXVI, p. 60.
95 Nicholas Bunnin and Jiyuan Yu, The Blackwell Dictionary of Western
Philosophy, p. 117.
96 Tom L Beauchamp, Philosophical Ethics, p. 101.
97 Andrew Fisher, Metaethics: An Introduction, p. 55.
98 PUP 403; emphasis added.
99 PUP 403; emphasis added.
100 PUP 465; emphasis added.
101 Shoghi Effendi, From a letter Written on behalf of the Guardian to an
individual believer, April 17, 1926, Bahá’í Youth, pp. 8-9) in
Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p. 630; emphasis added.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

102 Shoghi Effendi, Letter written on behalf of the Guardian to an individual
believer, October 26, 1932: Bahá’í Youth, pp. 4-5 in Compilations, Lights
of Guidance, p. 632; emphasis added.
103 See Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan,
forthcoming.
104 PUP 66; emphasis added.
105 Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan,
Vol. 9, 2008. Postmodernism tries to make a virtue of this problem.
106 Julia Driver, Ethics, p. 170.
107 J.L. Mackie, from Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong, in Beauchamp,
Philosophical Ethics, p. 42.
108 Julia Driver, Ethics, p. 171.
109 Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan,
Vol. 9, 2008.
110 Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy.
111 Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan,
forthcoming.
112 PUP 62; emphasis added.
113 PUP 291; emphasis added.
114 PUP 287; emphasis added.
115 Richard Rorty, “Introduction” in Objectivity, Relativism and Truth, p.13.
116 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity or Objectivity” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p. 22-23.
117 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p. 360.
118 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p. 366.
119 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p. 370.
120 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p. 371.
121 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p. 377.
122 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p. 378.

The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in
Religious History and the Significance of the
Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Baharieh Rouhani Ma`ani
The year 2013 marks the hundredth anniversary of `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s return to the Holy Land from His historic trip to Egypt
and the West. He left Haifa for Egypt in September 1910 and
returned there three years later. The person “invested … with the
responsibility”’ to attend “to the multitudinous details arising
out of His protracted absence from the Holy Land” (Bahíyyih
Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf [henceforth, “BK”], p. 39) was His
honoured sister, Bahá’íyyih Khánum,1 the Greatest Holy Leaf. In
the words of Shoghi Effendi: “At the time of His [`Abdu’l-
Bahá’s] absence in the western world, she was His competent
deputy, His representative and vicegerent, with none to equal
her” (BK 28).
The centenary of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s return to the Holy Land
after His protracted absence coincides with the fiftieth
anniversary of the establishment of the Universal House of
Justice. As we gather to celebrate these landmarks, we take time
to ponder upon the life of a most remarkable woman in the
history of religion, focus attention on the outstanding services
she rendered and on the significance of the site Shoghi Effendi
chose for her burial place. It was his choice of a specific spot on
Mount Carmel that determined the location of the Arc, around
which are built the institutions of the world administrative

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
centre of the Faith, the Seat of the Universal House of Justice
occupying its centre top.
The Greatest Holy Leaf
Born in Tihran to Bahá’u’lláh and Ásíyih Khánum in 1846,
she was named Fatimih at birth. She was later called Bahá’íyyih.
In a Tablet revealed in her honour, Bahá’u’lláh confirms that she
appeared in His name. “Verily she is a leaf that hath sprung
from this preexistent Root. She hath revealed herself in My
name and tasted of the sweet savours of My holy, My wondrous
pleasure” (BK p. v). The full text of Bahá’u’lláh’s original Arabic
of the above is inscribed around the circular dome of the
Greatest Holy Leaf’s monument on Mount Carmel (Ibid).
Varaqiy-i-`Ulya is the original Arabic title Bahá’u’lláh
bestowed on Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s mother. After Ásíyih
Khánum passed away, He bestowed the title on their daughter,
Bahá’íyyih Khánum. To avoid confusion, Shoghi Effendi
translated the title as the Most Exalted Leaf for Ásíyih Khánum,
and the Greatest Holy Leaf for Bahá’íyyih Khánum.
During Bahá’u’lláh’s Ministry
Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s life of service began at the age of six,
when Bahá’u’lláh was imprisoned in the Siyah Chal in late 1852.
At that time His House in Tihran was plundered. His wife,
Ásíyih Khánum with her three children took refuge in two
rented rooms in an obscure corner of the city. To obtain news
of Bahá’u’lláh and His condition, she was forced to leave early
in the morning and return after dark. Her son, `Abbas, who
later adopted `Abdu’l-Bahá as His title, then eight years old,
would accompany His mother. The six-year old Bahá’íyyih
Khánum would stay behind together with her two-year old
brother, Mírzá Mihdi, later titled the Purest Branch. This is how
she describes those frightful days:

The Greatest Holy Leaf
How well I remember cowering in the dark, with my
little brother, Mírzá Mihdi, the Purest Branch, at that
time two years old, in my arms, which were not very
strong, as I was only six. I was shivering with terror, for
I knew of some of the horrible things that were
happening, and was aware that they might have seized
even my mother. (The Chosen Highway, pp. 42-3)
Referring to this episode, Shoghi Effendi says:
As far back as the concluding stage of the heroic age of
the Cause, which witnessed the imprisonment of
Bahá’u’lláh in the Siyah-Chal of Tihran, the Greatest
Holy Leaf, then still in her infancy, was privileged to
taste of the cup of woe which the first believers of that
Apostolic Age had quaffed. (BK 3-4)
After four months imprisonment in the Siyah Chal (Black
Pit), Bahá’u’lláh was released on condition that He leave His
homeland. Bahá’íyyih Khánum was among the members of the
family who accompanied Him. She had to part with the beloved
brother whom she had carried in her delicate arms during
Bahá’u’lláh’s four-month imprisonment and to whom she was so
attached. She also left her extended family and the country she
so loved, never to see it again.
During a ten-year sojourn in Baghdad, “she grew into a
beautiful girl, very much like her lovely mother in grace of body
and character, a gentle, slender maiden with large grey-blue eyes,
golden-brown hair, and warm, ivory-colored skin. Her sense of
humour was keen and her intelligence remarkable.” (Chosen
Highway 69)
Lady Blomfield who interviewed Bahá’íyyih Khánum writes
about her decision to remain unmarried and the reason behind
it: “As she grew up, she implored her father to allow her to
remain unmarried, that she might the better devote herself to
her three dearly loved ones.2 And so it was.” Lady Blomfield

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
then recounts what she had heard from an old man, a friend of
Bahá’u’lláh, Who had once said to him: “I know no man worthy
to marry such purity as my daughter.” In response to her
question, “Khánum must have been very lovely?” The man had
said: “I have been told so; naturally, I never saw her.” (Chosen
Highway 69)
The human perfections that Bahá’íyyih Khánum exemplified,
the heavenly attributes that she embodied, the laudable services
that she rendered during the ministry of Bahá’u’lláh and her
tremendous capacity for selfless service throughout her life won
her from the Supreme Pen the appellation of the Most
Distinguished Heroine of the Bahá’í dispensation:
Verily, we have elevated thee to the rank of one of the
most distinguished among thy sex and granted thee, in
My court, a station such as none other woman hath
surpassed. Thus have We preferred thee and raised thee
above the rest, as a sign of grace from Him Who is the
Lord of the throne on high and earth below … How high
is the testimony of the Sadratu’l-Muntaha for its leaf;
how exalted the witness of the Tree of Life unto its
fruit! (BK 3-4)
Life in exile for a sensitive and conscientious child like
Bahá’íyyih Khánum, who was deeply concerned about the
difficulties that her parents faced, was particularly onerous. She
was ever ready to help in whatever manner she could.
The responsibilities that she undertook at a young age
amazed everyone. She was so busy with acts of service that she
had little or no time to receive instructions in the arts of
reading and writing. Her conversation with Lady Blomfield
confirms this:
‘My mother,’ she said, ‘sometimes gave lessons to my
brother `Abbas, at other times Mírzá Musa would teach

The Greatest Holy Leaf
Him, and on some occasions he would be taught by His
father.’
‘And your lessons? I asked.
‘But I never had any time for studies,’ she said, in a tone
which spoke volumes of absolute self-effacement, and
this is the keynote of her whole life, no thought of her
unselfishness entered her mind. (Chosen Highway 69).
Yet her communications with Bahá’ís throughout the world,
when she was required to step forward and take on a leadership
role, testify how well she met the challenge. Her letters in
Persian have been published in Dastkhathay-i-Hadrat-i-Varaqiy-
i-`Ulya. The English translation of a large selection of her letters
was published in 1982 in Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy
Leaf on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of her passing.
What we know of Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s services during the
ministry of Bahá’u’lláh is confined to her spoken chronicles
recorded by Lady Blomfield and Shoghi Effendi’s messages. The
situation of the women in the nineteenth century Middle East,
historians’ focus on the Person of the Manifestation of God and
the events revolving around Him, His sons and male followers,
to which they had easy access, as well as their respect for
tradition, which generally excluded women and their services
from historical treatment, are responsible for the dearth of
information about her and other early prominent women related
to Bahá’u’lláh and the Bab.
Shoghi Effendi makes it clear that Bahá’íyyih Khánum
shared the imprisonment, the grief, the banishment of
the Abha Beauty, and in the storm which broke out in
Iraq — because of the plotting and the treachery of the
prime mover of mischief, the focal centre of hate — she
bore, with complete resignation and acquiescence,
uncounted ordeals.3 (BK 26-7)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
He confirms that when she was in her teens, Bahá’u’lláh
entrusted her “with missions that no girl of her age could, or
would be willing to, perform.” He also explains how with
“spontaneous joy she seized her opportunity and acquitted
herself of the task with which she had been entrusted!” (BK 33)
Extolling Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s outstanding attributes that
distinguished her from others and which manifested themselves
after arrival in `Akká, Shoghi Effendi says:
Not until … she had been confined in the company of
Bahá’u’lláh within the walls of the prison-city of `Akká
did she display, in the plenitude of her power and in the
full abundance of her love for Him, those gifts that
single her out, next to `Abdu’l-Bahá, among the members
of the Holy Family as the brightest embodiment of that
love which is born of God and of that human sympathy
which few mortals are capable of evincing.
Banishing from her mind and heart every earthly
attachment, renouncing the very idea of matrimony, she,
standing resolutely by the side of a Brother whom she
was to aid and serve so well, arose to dedicate her life to
the service of her Father’s glorious Cause. Whether in
the management of the affairs of His Household in
which she excelled, or in the social relationships which
she so assiduously cultivated in order to shield both
Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá, whether in the unfailing
attention she paid to the everyday need of her Father, or
in the traits of generosity, of affability and kindness,
which she manifested, the Greatest Holy Leaf had by that
time abundantly demonstrated her worthiness to rank as
one of the noblest figures intimately associated with the
life-long work of Bahá’u’lláh. (BK 34-35)

The Greatest Holy Leaf
During the Ministry of `Abdu’l-Bahá
The ascension of Bahá’u’lláh on 29 May 1892 brought to the
fore deep-rooted resentment in the heart of Mírzá Muhammad-
`Ali, the half-brother of `Abdu’l-Bahá and the Greatest Holy
Leaf. Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali, envious of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
matchless personality and His high standing in the Bahá’í
community, also in society, had tried to undermine Him
through various schemes even during their Father’s lifetime.
Now that Bahá’u’lláh had passed away, Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali
imagined vainly that he could enjoy a station on par with
`Abdu’l-Bahá and share with Him the authority bestowed on
Him in Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of the Covenant.
Before His Ascension, Bahá’u’lláh had entrusted a sealed
document written in His own hand to `Abdu’l-Bahá. In that
document, known as the Book of His Covenant, Bahá’u’lláh had
appointed His Most Great Branch (`Abdu’l-Bahá), His Successor
and the authorized Interpreter of His Writings. In the same
document He had made it clear that the station of Mírzá
Muhammad-`Ali, the Greater Branch, was beneath that of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s. When the document was unsealed and its
contents read in the presence of selected believers including
some family members, Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali’s hopes were
shattered. Therefore he resorted to mischief and treachery to
achieve his goal. He and his supporters, including almost all
members of Bahá’u’lláh’s family, started a campaign to
undermine `Abdu’l-Bahá, to confuse the faint in heart and
divide the community. The Greatest Holy Leaf during that
crucial juncture in the early history of the Bahá’í Faith stood
firmly by the side of her illustrious Brother and fearlessly lent
Him her full support. In the words of Shoghi Effendi, “in the
midst of that storm of violation, the countenance of that rare
treasure of the Lord shone all the brighter, and throughout the
Bahá’í community, her value and high rank became clearly
perceived” (BK 28). He also says:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
With the passing of Bahá’u’lláh and the fierce onslaught
of the forces of disruption that followed in its wake, the
Greatest Holy Leaf, now in the hey-day of her life, rose
to the height of her great opportunity and acquitted
herself worthily of her task … but for her sleepless
vigilance, her tact, her courtesy, her extreme patience
and heroic fortitude, grave complications might have
ensued and the load of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s anxious care
would have been considerably increased. (BK 37-8)
When the Covenant-breakers’ widespread activities climaxed
and affected `Abdu’l-Bahá’s health, He withdrew to Tiberias,
where He stayed for weeks. During that time the Greatest Holy
Leaf for the first time in her life had to shoulder the kind of
responsibility never before she had been required to undertake.
A significant event took place during `Abdu’l-Bahá’s absence
from `Akká in 1895. The marriage of Diya’iyyih Khánum, the
eldest daughter of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Munírih Khánum, with
Mírzá Hadi, a great nephew of Khadijih Bagum, who had come
from Iran for the purpose took place at that time. Mírzá Hadi
had been to the Holy Land toward the end of Bahá’u’lláh’s
ministry and his proposal to marry Diya’yyih Khánum had
received His approval. His return to the Holy Land for the
purpose of finalizing arrangements for the wedding coincided
with the time `Abdu’l-Bahá had withdrawn to Tiberias. His
approval for the marriage to take place at that time was sought
and received. However, He was not physically present at the
ceremony. A Tablet He revealed at that time lays open the depth
of His sorrow occasioned by the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh and
the immense hardships sustained by members of His family:
Now because it is the day of separation, and the time of
mourning, the fire of anxiety is flaming, the heat of
burning sorrow is, as it were, shriveling up the universe!

The Greatest Holy Leaf
The calamities of my family are beyond endurance, and
the troubles of those sorrowful leaves (sister, wife,
daughters) are without end.
From all directions the arrows of hardship are being
showered upon them, like rain-drops in spring, and the
spears of the unfaithful are being hurled upon them
without ceasing….
Oh, family of this sorrowful one, all is sacrifice. No
pleasure is desired by you.
I know your sorrows.
The Mufti may be asked to chant the Marriage Chant at
the Holy Shrine on Sunday. (Chosen Highway 113-114)
Despite the immense suffering that the sedition and mischief-
making of Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali and his kindred had caused
the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant and His family, the
Greatest Holy Leaf, the person in charge in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
absence, invited them to the wedding. Tuba Khánum4 says: “My
aunt invited the family of Muhammad-`Ali to come in the
evening. They came and jeered at the simplicity of the wedding
with great ridicule.” (Ibid 114)
The stringent restrictions imposed upon women prevented
them to personally carry out functions outside the home. By
doing so they would have risked being seen by men who were
not their close blood relatives. Women of good repute did not
appear in public in those days without an immediate male
relative. The marriage of Diya’iyyih Khánum and Mírzá Hadi
during `Abdu’l-Bahá’s absence in Tiberias was fortuitous in that
the family now had a close male relative, who could undertake
what needed to be done beyond the confines of the house. This
arrangement made it possible for the Greatest Holy Leaf to
discharge her responsibilities inside and outside the home until
`Abdu’l-Bahá returned to `Akká.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Another trip of weeks’ duration that `Abdu’l-Bahá undertook
for health reasons was when He visited Haifa and stayed in the
cave of Elijah. The presence of Bahá’íyyih Khánum in `Akká
made it possible for `Abdu’l-Bahá to take such trips, when it
was necessary.
The Covenant-breakers’ constant agitation and intrigues
caused the Central Government, whose seat was Constantinople
(Istanbul of today), to dispatch twice a Commission of Enquiry,
to investigate fabricated charges against `Abdu’l-Bahá, and
submit a report. “In the days of the Commission of
Investigation,” Shoghi Effendi says, “she [Bahá’íyyih Khánum]
was a staunch and trusted supporter of the peerless Branch of
Bahá’u’lláh, and a companion to Him beyond compare.” (BK 28)
When His life was in imminent danger, `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote
His Will and Testament. In it He appointed Shoghi Effendi,
then a child, as the Guardian of the Cause of God. His situation
being very grim and investigators most intent on keeping
everything under surveillance, He buried the document under
ground, lest it be discovered and its contents disclosed
prematurely. It was to Bahá’íyyih Khánum, His well-beloved
sister and confidant, that He divulged the secret of Shoghi
Effendi’s appointment to lead the Bahá’í world after Him.
There is yet another instance pointing to the complete trust
`Abdu’l-Bahá had in the Greatest Holy Leaf’s ability to
discharge delicate responsibilities. When the casket containing
the remains of the Bab and His fellow-martyr reached the shores
of the Holy Land, she was the person entrusted with that
precious trust. The remains were kept in her room in the House
of `Abdu’lláh Pasha until a safe venue could be found.
Then came the revolution of the Young Turks, which was the
outward cause of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s release from years of
confinement in 1908. Instead of enjoying with members of His
family a life of relative ease, He first completed the Mausoleum
He was building on Mount Carmel since 1900. On Naw-Ruz
1909, He entombed the remains of the Bab, and immediately

The Greatest Holy Leaf
began preparations for His historic trip that “in pursuance of
God’s inscrutable Wisdom”, He had conceived “in the darkest
hours of His confinement…” (BK 39) In a Tablet revealed in
honor of the Greatest Holy Leaf on the day He embarked on
His historic trip, `Abdu’l-Bahá says:
O thou my sister, my dear sister!
Divine wisdom hath decreed this temporary separation,
but I long more and more to be with thee again. Patience
is called for, and long-suffering, and trust in God, and
the seeking of His favour. Since thou art there, my mind
is completely at rest.
In recent days, I have made a plan to visit Egypt, if this
be God’s will. Do thou, on my behalf, lay thy head on
the sacred Threshold, and perfume brow and hair in the
dust of that Door, and ask that I may be confirmed in
my work; that I may, in return for His endless bounties,
win, if He will, a drop out of the ocean of servitude. (BK
13)
Referring to the magnitude of responsibilities that the
Greatest Holy Leaf discharged during `Abdu’l-Bahá’s trip to the
West, Shoghi Effendi says:
And when … the ban on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s confinement was
lifted … He with unhesitating confidence, invested His
trusted and honoured sister with the responsibility of
attending to the multitudinous details arising out of His
protracted absence from the Holy Land. (BK 39)
The responsibilities that the Greatest Holy Leaf discharged at
various stages of her life, especially during `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
protracted absence in the western world, achieved purposes far
beyond what was considered the need of the hour: Serving as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
‘competent
deputy,
representative
and
vicegerent’ (BK 28) familiarized the Bahá’í world with her unique

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
personality and leadership ability. As a result, the believers
turned to her unhesitatingly, when He passed away unexpectedly
after a brief illness. It also prepared her to fill an apparent void
immediately after `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ascension and discharge even
greater responsibilities several times during Shoghi Effendi’s
ministry.
After `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Ascension and During Shoghi
Effendi’s Ministry
`Abdu’l-Bahá passed away very early in the morning of 28
November 1921. Shoghi Effendi, the person He had appointed
in His Will and Testament as the Guardian of the Cause of God,
was then studying at Oxford University in Great Britain,
completely unaware that he had been chosen to lead the Bahá’í
world after His Grandfather’s ascension. Equally unaware were
the believers that Shoghi Effendi was the distinguished Branch
appointed by `Abdu’l-Bahá to lead the Bahá’í world after Him.
Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali, whose opposition to the Centre of the
Covenant, had cost him the loss of the right to succeed Him,
was hard at work to present himself as the leader of the Bahá’í
community. At that crucial juncture in the history of the Faith,
the Greatest Holy Leaf, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s competent deputy
during His protracted absence from the Bahá’í World Centre,
stepped forth and guided the believers throughout the world
until Shoghi Effendi returned to the World Centre, exactly one
month after `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ascension.
Shoghi Effendi received the news of his Grandfather’s
ascension at about noon on 29 November. The Greatest Holy
Leaf had sent a cable to the address of Major Tudor Pole in
London. It reached that office at 9:30 in the morning on 29
November. It read: “His Holiness `Abdu’l-Bahá ascended Abha
Kingdom. Inform friends” (BK 114). Amatu’l-Bahá Rú˙íyyih
Khánum believes Major Pole “must have telephoned Shoghi
Effendi, asking him to come at once to his office…” (The Priceless
Pearl, p. 39). When Shoghi Effendi learned the shocking news, he

The Greatest Holy Leaf
began preparations for the voyage to Haifa. Heartbroken and
grief-stricken he travelled by boat to Alexandria, Egypt, then by
train to Haifa, where he arrived a month later. The Covenant-
breakers during this time had renewed intense activity to install
Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali as the rightful successor of `Abdu’l-
Bahá. The Greatest Holy Leaf, fully aware of their schemes,
despite the tremendous loss she had suffered, prevented Mírzá
Muhammad-`Ali from entering `Abdu’l-Bahá’s House where
mourners were received, and ensured that the Covenant-
breakers’ efforts and propaganda were in vain. She warned the
friends in America on 14 December 1921:
Now is period of great tests. The friends should be firm
and
united
in
defending
the
Cause.
Nakeseens
[Covenant-breakers] starting activities through press
other channels all over world. Select committee of wise
cool heads to handle press propaganda in America. (BK
114)
Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s acute alertness, constant vigilance and
ceaseless efforts during that short critical period after `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s ascension, when He was gone and the person He had
appointed as the Guardian of the Cause of God and authorized
interpreter of Holy Writings was away, protected the believers
from the mischief of evil-doers and their fresh intrigues.
On 21 December 1921, Bahá’íyyih Khánum assured the
Persian and American believers that `Abdu’l-Bahá had left “full
instructions in His Will and Testament” (Ibid). On 29 December,
though herself bereaved and heart-broken, she received the
grief-stricken 24-year old Guardian of the Cause of God.
Referring to the boundless love with which she received him and
the tender way she treated him, he says:
After the ascension of `Abdu’l-Bahá to the realm of the
All-Glorious, that Light of the Concourse on High
enfolded me, helpless as I was, in the embrace of her
love, and with incomparable pity and tenderness,

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
persuaded, guided, and urged me on to the requirements
of servitude. The very elements of this frail being were
leavened with her love, refreshed by her companionship,
sustained by her eternal spirit. (BK 29)
On 7 January 1922, Bahá’íyyih Khánum sent two cables to
Iran, announcing the dispatch of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and
Testament and of Shoghi Effendi’s appointment as Centre of
the Cause (Priceless Pearl 47). On 16 January 1922, she informed
the friends in the United States: “In Will Shoghi Effendi
appointed Guardian of Cause and Head of House of Justice.”
(Ibid 48)
Legal Challenge to Shoghi Effendi’s Authority
A month after his return to the Holy Land, Shoghi Effendi
faced a legal challenge to his authority as the Guardian of the
Cause of God. Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali, the Greater Branch, had
he not brought himself to naught through active opposition to
the Centre of the Covenant, would have succeeded `Abdu’l-
Bahá, the Most Great Branch, according to the Book of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant. However, he had lost his legacy due to
his misdeeds and wicked doings, and been excommunicated
during the ministry of `Abdu’l-Bahá, Who, in His Will and
Testament appointed Shoghi Effendi as the Guardian of the
Cause of God. Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali nonetheless tried to
establish his authority through legal action. According to
Amatu’l-Bahá Rú˙íyyih Khánum,
… [Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali] applied to the civil
authorities
to
turn
over
the
custodianship
of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Shrine to him on the grounds that he was
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s lawful successor. The British authorities
refused on the grounds that it appeared to be a religious
issue; he then appealed to the Muslim religious head and
asked the Mufti of `Akká to take formal charge of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Shrine; this dignitary, however, said he did

The Greatest Holy Leaf
not see how he could do this as the Bahá’í teachings were
not in conformity with Shariah law. All other avenues
having failed he sent his younger brother, Badiulláh, with
some of their supporters, to visit the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh where, on Tuesday, 30 January, they forcibly
seized the keys of the Holy Tomb from the Bahá’í
caretaker, thus asserting Muhammad-`Ali’s right to be
the lawful custodian of his Father’s resting place. This
unprincipled act created such a commotion in the Bahá’í
Community that the Governor of Akká ordered the keys
to be handed over to the authorities, posted guards at
the Shrine, but went no further, refusing to return the
keys to either party. (Priceless Pearl 53-4)
The shock of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s sudden departure from this
world, the immense grief occasioned by not having been with
Him during the last days of His ministry, the utter surprise of
being required to take on the mantle of leadership of the Bahá’í
world, and the intensity of opposition by the Covenant-
breakers to his appointment, all of which affected his health,
convinced Shoghi Effendi of the necessity to spend some time
in a quiet place to recuperate, also to gain “strength, self-
confidence and spiritual energy.” (BK 21) Therefore, just over
three months after his arrival, he appointed the Greatest Holy
Leaf as his representative and head of a committee established
to look after the affairs of the worldwide Bahá’í community,
both at home and abroad, and left the Holy Land. The letters
that he wrote to the Bahá’ís of the world in English and Persian
conveyed this information. In effect, as Bahá’íyyih Khánum had
deputized for `Abdu’l-Bahá during His travels in the West, she
was now called upon to deputize for His Chosen Branch. As we
will see, she performed this task with competence, self-
abnegation and absolute loyalty. Indeed, the members of that
committee, except for the Greatest Holy Leaf, at various stages
during the ministry of Shoghi Effendi broke the Covenant. She
stood firm till the last breath. No other woman in religious
history has played a comparable role.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The issue of the legal custodianship of the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh had not been resolved when Shoghi Effendi left on 5
April 1922. On that day, he wrote to Colonel Symes, the
Governor of Phoenicia:
As I am compelled to leave Haifa for reasons of health, I
have named as my representative during my absence, the
sister of `Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahíyyih Khánum. To assist her
to conduct the affairs of the Bahá’í Movement in this
country and elsewhere, I have also appointed a
committee of the following Bahá’ís [eight men of the
local community, three of them the sons-in-law of
`Abdu’l-Bahá] … The Chairman of this Committee, to be
soon elected by its members, with the signature of
Bahíyyih Khánum has my authority to transact any
affairs that may need to be considered and decided
during my absence. I regret exceedingly to be unable to
see you before my departure, that I may express more
adequately the satisfaction that I feel to know that your
sense of justice will safeguard the interests of the Cause
of Bahá’u’lláh whenever called upon to act. (Priceless Pearl
276)
The legal action that Mírzá Muhammad-`Ali took resulted in
Bahá’íyyih Khánum being declared by Shoghi Effendi in his
official communication with the governor of the area as his
representative with the right of signature. This was no doubt
the first time in his career that the governor had to deal with a
woman at the head of a religious community, in a land revered
by several religions and among people so steeped in tradition.
Had anything like it happen previously in the annals of religion?
In the first letter that Bahá’íyyih Khánum sent in April 1922
to the believers after Shoghi Effendi’s departure, she said:
According to a letter written by his own hand, which is
enclosed, he has appointed this prisoner to supervise and
manage the affairs of the Cause, through consultation

The Greatest Holy Leaf
with the Holy Family, during his absence. Therefore, this
perishable one, temporarily, has organized an assembly
to act according to the advice of the souls who were
appointed and nominated by him — His Holiness Shoghi
Effendi. (Quoted in Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 189)
The enclosure mentioned in Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s letter, a
letter written in Shoghi Effendi’s hand, reads:
This servant, after that grievous event and great
calamity, the ascension of His Holiness `Abdu’l-Bahá to
the Abha Kingdom, has been so stricken with grief and
pain and so entangled in the troubles created by the
enemies of the Cause of God, that I consider that my
presence here, at such a time and in such an atmosphere,
is not in accordance with the fulfillment of my
important and sacred duties.
For this reason, unable to do otherwise, I have left for a
time the affairs of the Cause both at home and abroad,
under the supervision of the Holy Family and the
headship of the Greatest Holy Leaf until, by the Grace of
God, having gained health, strength, self-confidence and
spiritual energy, and having taken into my hands, in
accordance with my aim and desire, entirely and
regularly the work of service I shall attain to my utmost
spiritual hope and aspiration. (BK 21)
In May 1922, Bahá’íyyih Khánum informed the believers
throughout the world of the incessant activities of the
Covenant-breakers, apprised them of the details of the seizure
of the key of Bahá’u’lláh’s Shrine and directed them to send
requests to the British authorities in Jerusalem confirming that
Shoghi Effendi was the legitimate leader of the Bahá’í world
community, appointed by `Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and
Testament. This course of action was based on what the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
government had suggested. The full text of the letter is quoted
in Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf, pages 117-120.
Several months passed and there was no response. Wishing to
know what actions the governor had taken regarding the
restoration of the key to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh to its original
caretaker, Bahá’íyyih Khánum in a letter dated 15 October 1922
enquired from him about the case. In response she received a
letter, dated 30 October. It reads:
Dear Madam,
In reply to your letter of the 15th instant I regret that I
cannot throw any very new light on the subject. As has
been stated publicly the Government feel that the
custody of the Shrine at Acre as well as other important
questions affecting the Bahá-ist organization should if
possible be settled by a Congress of representatives of
Bahá’í opinion throughout the World. To judge from
messages received from a number of Bahá-ist Centres it
would appear that they endorse and uphold the
provisions of the Will of the late Sir Abdul Bahá Abbas,
and as soon as the Congress aforementioned has actually
met and given its decision the Government will be
prepared to entertain its final recommendations. In the
meantime if it is possible to find an individual whose
provisional custody of the Key of the Shrine will be
offensive to no section of Bahais I shall be only too glad
to hand over the key to him until such time as the
Congress has met and made its final recommendations in
the matter. (Leaves, p. 193)
Shoghi Effendi returned to the Holy Land in mid-December
1922 and continued efforts to satisfy the requirements and
convince the authorities to return the key of the Most Holy
Tomb to its original caretaker. Finally, fourteen months after
the key had been forcibly seized, the Sub-Governor at Acre was
instructed by the District Governor, G.S. Symes, ‘to return the

The Greatest Holy Leaf
key of the Tomb of Bahá’Ulláh to Es Saiyid Abu’l-Kassim’, the
original caretaker of the Shrine. The date of that letter is 14
March 1923. (Leaves, p. 193)
The Eruption of Hostilities in Iran
While dealing with the issue of the seizure of the key to the
Most Holy Shrine by the Covenant-breakers, another significant
crisis erupted. The fanatical elements in Iran, vainly imagining
that with `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ascension the friends in that land had
been left defenseless, took advantage of political instability in
the country, stirred up trouble and incited the inhabitants to
renew their attacks on the Bahá’ís in that land. Bahá’íyyih
Khánum’s letter of 20 July 1922 to the Bahá’ís of America
explains:
Sad news has come to us out of Iran in recent days, and
it has intensely grieved the entire Bahá’í world: they
have, in most parts of that land, set bonfires of envy and
malevolence, and hoisted the banner of aggression
against this much wronged community; they have left no
means untried, no plot or strategy neglected, and have
arisen with extreme hostility and spite to pull out by
their very roots the trees of this garden of God. (BK 165)
In the same letter she asks that assemblies act urgently,
contact the Iranian embassy in their country and seek justice on
behalf of their persecuted Bahá’í brothers and sisters in Iran.
She explains what the petition was to include, even asks the
assemblies to “make this same representation through your own
ambassador in Tihran, so that he may direct the attention of the
Iranian authorities to these persecutions, and awaken that
government to the possibility of divine retribution and to the
shameful stigma occasioned by such actions directed against this
innocent community by the heedless and ignorant amongst the
mass of the people…” (BK 169)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The beloved Guardian, after his return to the Bahá’í World
Centre on 22 December 1922, left again for health reasons in
early summer 1923 and in 1924, each time for several months.
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s presence in Haifa to supervise the
work of the Faith in his absence was indispensable. Every time
she performed most conscientiously and faithfully the
responsibilities entrusted to her, and each time after Shoghi
Effendi returned, she bowed before his authority and continued
supporting his work to the end of her life. What she did stands
in clear contrast to other members of the family, most of whom
at various stages of Shoghi Effendi’s ministry turned against
him and broke the Covenant.
For a glimpse of the scope of the services Bahá’íyyih Khánum
rendered joyfully to the community at large during World War
I, we have this testimony from Shoghi Effendi:
The outbreak of the Great War gave her yet another
opportunity to reveal the true worth of her character
and to release the latent energies of her heart. The
residence of `Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa was besieged, all
throughout that dreary conflict, by a concourse of
famished
men,
women
and
children
whom
the
maladministration, the cruelty and neglect of the
officials of the Ottoman Government had driven to seek
an alleviation to their woes. From the hand of the
Greatest Holy Leaf, and out of the abundance of her
heart, these hapless victims of a contemptible tyranny,
received day after day unforgettable evidences of a love
they had learned to envy and admire. Her words of cheer
and comfort, the food, the money, the clothing she
freely dispensed, the remedies which, by a process of her
own, she herself prepared and diligently applied — all
these had their share in comforting the disconsolate, in
restoring sight to the blind, in sheltering the orphan, in
healing the sick, and in succouring the homeless and the
wanderer. (BK 40)

The Greatest Holy Leaf
And the following from Dr. Habib Mu’ayyad, who at `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s behest, served in the Holy Land for some time:
Poor and shelterless orphans were the recipients of her
special care and affection. She sheltered them in the
house of the Master and loved them dearly … regardless
of whether they were Arab or non-Arab, black or white,
Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í. She taught them good manners, the
art of relating to others, dawn prayers, reading and
writing,
home
management,
embroidery,
sewing,
cooking, studying the verses of God, fear of God and
human perfections. She adorned them with the ornament
of knowledge, good character, perfection and fear of
God. She turned them into fruitful trees, led them to the
highway of guidance, prepared them for living the life,
made them prosperous and delivered them to society.
(Translated from Dr. Habib Mu’ayyad’s memoirs in Payam-i-Bahá’í,
no. 33, p. 12.)
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Station and the Significance of
the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Bahá’íyyih Khánum passed away in Haifa on 15 July 1932. In
a cable sent on the day of her passing, Shoghi Effendi says:
“Humanity shall erelong recognize its irreparable loss.” In the
same cable he refers to her as his ‘sole earthly sustainer’, his
‘affectionate comforter’, ‘the joy and solace’ of his life.
Regarding her burial place, He says, “Her sacred remains will
repose vicinity Holy Shrines.” As an evidence of the unique
station she occupies and a mark of appreciation for the
unprecedented services she rendered during her life, Shoghi
Effendi had chosen a significant spot on Mount Carmel as the
site for her resting place. In the same cable he says: “So grievous
a bereavement necessitates suspension for nine months
throughout Bahá’í world every manner religious festivity.’5 He
directs “Local Assemblies and Groups hold befitting manner
memorial gatherings, extol a life so laden sacred experiences, so

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
rich imperishable memories…” He further advises that
“additional commemoration service of strictly devotional
character” be held “Auditorium Mashriqu’l-Adhkar.”6 (BK 22-3)
Shoghi Effendi had made the decision to bury Bahá’íyyih
Khánum’s remains in a specific spot on Mount Carmel, before
she passed away. The instructions he had left for her burial, if
she winged her flight to the world beyond while he was away,
make this conclusion clear. The spot he had chosen was in close
proximity to the Mausoleum built by `Abdu’l-Bahá for the Bab,
where `Abdu’l-Bahá’s body has also been entombed. Certain
known factors help us grasp the significance of his choice:
Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s unique station as the Most Outstanding
Heroine of Bahá’u’lláh’s dispensation warranted a burial place
that symbolized her exalted rank. It was also to be a place, to
which the remains of her mother and martyred brother, the
Purest Branch, could be transferred. For they, too, enjoy special
station bestowed upon them by Bahá’u’lláh, and the Greatest
Holy Leaf had expressed the wish to be buried close to her
mother.
The spots on Mount Carmel ennobled by Bahá’u’lláh’s
footsteps during His several visits to Haifa were, as far as we
know, confined to an area facing `Akká, the Qiblih of the
people of Bahá. The most favored spot was the one He had
chosen for the Bab’s Sepulcher. The areas surrounding that
exalted edifice are regarded sacred precincts.
In the Lawh-i Karmil (the Tablet of Carmel), the charter for
the development of the Bahá’í World Centre, addressing the
mountain of the Lord, Bahá’u’lláh has revealed: “Ere long will
God sail His Ark upon thee, and will manifest the people of
Bahá who have been mentioned in the Book of Names” (TB 5).
This statement clearly designates Mount Carmel as the place
where the Seat of the Universal House of Justice, “the supreme
legislative body of the Bahá’í world” (Messages to the Bahá’í World,
1950-1957, p. 21), would be established. However, it does not
specify a specific area of Mount Carmel.

The Greatest Holy Leaf
The three significant sites identified on Mount Carmel are:
The site for the Shrine of the Bab chosen by Bahá’u’lláh
Himself, the site where He revealed the Tablet of Carmel,
designated by Shoghi Effendi as the site for the future
Mashriqu’l-Adhkar, and a site on Mount Carmel for sailing of
the Ark of God (the Seat of the Universal House of Justice). The
determination of the exact spot on Mount Carmel for the Seat
of the Universal House of Justice seems to have been made by
Shoghi Effendi. That determination has a direct link to his
choice of a spot for the Greatest Holy Leaf’s resting place.
The Significance of Mount Carmel Arc and Its Link to the Ark
of God Revealed in the Tablet of Carmel
Shoghi Effendi envisaged an Arc in the heart of Mount
Carmel, upon which the Ark of God was destined to sail. He
considered the base of that Arc a most befitting place for the
resting place of the Greatest Holy Leaf. The link between ‘Ark’
(ship) and ‘Arc’ (a semi-circle, or bow-shaped) goes back to the
time of Noah: The rebelliousness of his followers caused a
devastating flood and threatened everyone’s life. Noah built an
ark (ship), which saved from annihilation those who entered it.
When the storm and flood subsided, a rainbow appeared “As a
sign that the earth will no longer be destroyed by flood” (Gen.
9:8-16; Ezekiel 1:28). Rainbow is “the token of the covenant which
God made with Noah when he came forth from the ark.”
(Smith’s Bible Dictionary) What links ark meaning ship to arc
meaning bow-shaped or semi-circle, is the rainbow that
appeared when the storm subsided. Rainbow has since become
the sign of the covenant that God will protect from destructive
storms and flood those who enter His Ark and abide therein.
Shoghi Effendi has referred to the Universal House of Justice as
“the last refuge for a tottering civilization.”
When Shoghi Effendi determined the site of the Greatest
Holy Leaf’s resting place, he clearly had in mind an elaborate
plan, which included transferring the remains of Ásíyih
Khánum, the Most Exalted Leaf, and Mírzá Mihdi, the Purest

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Branch, from `Akká to the same spot on the slope of Mount
Carmel. This plan materialized in December 1939, seven years
after the passing of Bahá’íyyih Khánum. When all was done, he
conveyed the exhilarating news by cable to the friends in North
America:
BLESSED
REMAINS
PUREST
BRANCH
AND
MASTER’S
MOTHER
SAFELY
TRANSFERRED
HALLOWED
PRECINCTS
SHRINES
MOUNT
CARMEL. LONG INFLICTED HUMILIATION WIPED
AWAY. MACHINATIONS COVENANT-BREAKERS
FRUSTRATE PLAN DEFEATED. CHERISHED WISH
GREATEST
HOLY
LEAF
FULFILLED.
SISTER
BROTHER
MOTEHR
WIFE
`ABDU’L-BAHA
REUNITED ONE SPOT DESIGNED CONSTITUTE
FOCAL
CENTRE
BAHÁ’Í
ADMINISTRATIVE
INSTITUTIONS
AT
FAITH’S
CENTRE.7
SHARE
JOYFUL
NEWS
ENTIRE
BODY
AMERICAN
BELIEVERS. (BK 60-61)
Referring to the significance of what had been accomplished,
he writes in his history of the first Bahá’í century:
The conjunction of these three resting-places, under the
shadow of the Bab’s own Tomb, embosomed in the heart
of Carmel, facing the snow-white city across the bay of
`Akká, the Qiblih of the Bahá’í world, set in a garden of
exquisite beauty, reinforces, if we would correctly
estimate its significance, the spiritual potencies of a
spot, designated by Bahá’u’lláh Himself the seat of
God’s throne. It marks, too, a further milestone in the
road leading eventually to the establishment of that
permanent world Administrative Centre of the future
Bahá’í Commonwealth, destined never to be separated
from, and to function in the proximity of, the Spiritual
Centre of that Faith, in a land already revered and held

The Greatest Holy Leaf
sacred alike by the adherents of three of the world’s
outstanding religious systems. (GPB 348)
In several of his messages Shoghi Effendi explains the
significance of conjoining the resting-places of the Greatest
Holy Leaf with those of her brother and mother. In a message to
America, after the transfer of the remains of Ásíyih Khánum
and the Purest Branch from `Akká to Mount Carmel, he says:
… the conjunction of the resting-place of the Greatest
Holy Leaf with those of her brother and mother
incalculably reinforces the spiritual potencies of that
consecrated Spot which, under the wings of the Bab’s
over-shadowing Sepulcher, and in the vicinity of the
future Mashriqu’l-Adhkar, which will be reared on its
flank, is destined to evolve into the focal center of those
world-shaking,
world
embracing,
world-directing
administrative institutions, ordained by Bahá’u’lláh and
anticipated by `Abdu’l-Bahá, and which are to function
in consonance with the principles that govern the twin
institutions of the Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice. Then, and then only, will this
momentous prophecy which illuminates the concluding
passages of the Tablet of Carmel be fulfilled: “Ere long
will God sail His Ark upon thee (Carmel), and will
manifest the people of Bahá who have been mentioned in
the Book of Names.” (Messages to America 1932-1946, 32-3)
And speaking of the link between the site of the resting-
places of the Greatest Holy Leaf, her mother and brother on
Mount Carmel in Haifa and the Mother Temple of the West in
North America, he says:
And now, while the Bahá’í world vibrates with emotion
at the news of the transfer of the precious remains of
both the Purest Branch and of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s mother to
a spot which, watched over by the Twin Holy Shrines

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
and in the close neighbourhood of the resting-place of
the Greatest Holy Leaf, is to become the focus of the
administrative institutions of the Faith at its world
centre, the mere act of linking the destiny of so far-
reaching an undertaking with so significant an event in
the Formative Period of our Faith will assuredly set the
seal of complete triumph upon, and enhance the spiritual
potentialities of, a work so significantly started and so
magnificently executed by the followers of Bahá’u’lláh
in the North American continent.8 (Ibid, p. 37)
In designing the beautiful monument built over the resting-
place of the Greatest Holy Leaf, Shoghi Effendi had in mind for
it not only “to evolve into the focal centre of those world-
shaking,
world-embracing,
world-directing
administrative
institutions, ordained by Bahá’u’lláh” (MA 32) but also for it to
symbolize the institutions of the Administrative Order: the
steps symbolize Local Spiritual Assemblies, the pillars the
National Spiritual Assemblies and the dome the Universal House
of Justice.
By a happy coincidence, the construction of the Seat of the
Universal House of Justice was complete by the time the Bahá’í
world commemorated the Fiftieth anniversary of the passing of
the Greatest Holy Leaf on 15 July 1982. At the Bahá’í World
Centre the friends visited her resting place at the early hours of
that morning, the exact time when she had passed away. Later
that day the friends residing in the Holy Land gathered in the
Reception Concourse of the Seat of the Universal House of
Justice for a memorial gathering with a program befitting her
station. Her memorial service was the first gathering to be held
in the Reception Concourse of the Seat.
The significance of Bahá’íyyih Khánum’s high station and the
uniqueness of the services she has rendered are eloquently
described in Shoghi Effendi’s statements about her. The
following is a sampling:

The Greatest Holy Leaf
Only future generations and pens abler than mine can,
and will, pay a worthy tribute to the towering grandeur
of her spiritual life, to the unique part she played
through the tumultuous stages of Bahá’í history, to the
expressions of unqualified praise that have streamed
from the pen of both Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá, the
Centre of His Covenant, though unrecorded, and in the
main unsuspected by the mass of her passionate admirers
in East and West, the share she had in influencing the
course of some of the chief events in the annals of the
Faith, the sufferings she bore, the sacrifices she made,
the rare gifts of unfailing sympathy she so strikingly
displayed — these, and many others stand so inextricably
interwoven with the fabric of the Cause itself that no
future historian of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh can afford to
ignore or minimize. (BK 32)
To this bear witness the Company on High, and beyond
them God Himself, the Supreme Lord of all the heavens
and the earths: that during all thy days, from thine
earliest years until the close of thy life, thou didst
personify the attributes of thy Father, the Matchless, the
Mighty. Thou wert the fruit of His Tree, thou wert the
lamp of His love, thou wert the symbol of His serenity,
and of His meekness, the pathway of His guidance, the
channel of His blessings, the sweet scent of His robe, the
refuge of His loved ones and His handmaidens, the
mantle of His generosity and grace. (BK 56)
O thou solace of mine eyes, and beloved of my soul! Thy
grace to me was plenteous, it can never be concealed; thy
love for me was great, it can never be forgotten. Blessed,
a thousand times blessed, is he who loves thee, and
partakes of thy splendours, and sings the praises of thy
qualities, and extols thy worth, and follows in thy
footsteps; who testifies to the wrongs thou didst suffer,
and visits thy resting-place, and circles around thine

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
exalted tomb, by day and by night. Woe unto him,
retribution be his, who disputes thy rank and station,
and denies thine excellence, and turns himself aside from
thy clear, thy luminous and straight path. (BK 57)
Conclusion
Religion has always been heavily dependent on women for its
promotion and for the salvation of human beings. Through
their adherence to revealed laws and principles, they have passed
on cherished values and instilled in future generations standards
of decency necessary for carrying forward an ever-advancing
civilization. This pattern is traceable in all religions in spite of
religious history largely ignoring their services. One of the
unfortunate outcomes of the restrictions imposed on women in
the past has been making it impossible for them to scale
summits readily available to men. Among the handful women
whose names religious history has recorded none played a
leading role through a mandate conferred on her by the center
of authority. Bahá’íyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf, is the
first woman in religious history deputizing for the Person
Bahá’u’lláh appointed as the Centre of His Covenant. She
played a crucial role during `Abdu’l-Bahá’s absence in the
western world. She also played a vital part after His Ascension,
and served as Shoghi Effendi’s representative during his early
absences from the World Centre of the Faith in the Holy Land.
The site of her resting place is a significant spot on Mount
Carmel, as stated in a cable from Shoghi Effendi:
DESIGNED CONSTITUTE FOCAL CENTRE BAHÁ’Í
ADMINISTRATIVE
INSTITUTIONS
AT
FAITH’S
CENTRE. (BK 60-61)

The Greatest Holy Leaf
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice and translated by Habib Taherzadeh with the assistance of
a Committee at the Bahá’í World Centre. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978.
Blomfield, Lady (Sitarih Khánum). The Chosen Highway. Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1967.
Bahíyyih Khánum; The Greatest Holy Leaf. Compiled by the Research
Department at the Bahá’í World Centre. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982.
Payam-i-Bahá’í. Monthly publication in Persian of the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of France.
Rabbani, Ruhiyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1969.
Rouhani Ma`ani, Baharieh. Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees. Oxford:
George Ronald, 2008.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1957.
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to America 1932-1946. Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1947.
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957. Wilmette,
Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1958.
William Smith. Smith’s Bible Dictionary.

NOTES
1 The name engraved on the seal, with which the Greatest Holy Leaf sealed
her letters, is Bahá’íyyih. This may be the reason the Iranian friends refer
to her as Bahá’íyyih Khánum and, as a sign of respect, do not use it to
name their daughters. In his messages to the western friends Shoghi
Effendi used Bahíyyih as the Greatest Holy Leaf’s name, probably because
it is easier to pronounce and is used as a proper noun. Bahá’íyyih and
Bahíyyih are derivatives of the Arabic root Bahá’, which means “glory.”
2 Her parents, Bahá’u’lláh and Ásíyih Khánum, and her brother, `Abdu’l-
Bahá.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

3 After Bahá’u’lláh’s departure from Iran, His half-brother, Mírzá Yahyá, on
his own accord left Iran for Baghdad in disguise, lived in Bahá’u’lláh’s
House as a guest, stirred up mischief and caused the holy family,
particularly Bahá’íyyih Khánum, untold suffering. See The Chosen
Highway for details.
4 The second eldest daughter of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Munírih Khánum.
5 It is remarkable that for the first and probably only time in the history of
the Faith, the friends throughout the world were urged to suspend for nine
months every manner of religious festivity. In another message Shoghi
Effendi asks the friends, if possible, to even postpone celebrations of
personal nature.
6 In 1932, the construction of the Mother Temple of the West was not yet
complete. The edifice was dedicated twenty years later in 1953. Therefore,
the commemorative service for Bahá’íyyih Khánum was, it seems, the first
gathering of its nature held in the Auditorium of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkar.
7 By the time this project was complete, Munírih Khánum, the wife of
`Abdu’l-Bahá had passed away and buried in an area close to the resting
place of the Greatest Holy Leaf, but at a lower elevation.
8 Referring to the construction of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkar of America, the
Mother Temple of the West.

Origins of Creation
Farjam Majd
Abstract
Probably the most ancient and fundamental question of all
times on the individual’s and the collective mind is: “Is there a
God?”
The answer to this question has profound implications, and
indeed direct impact on the life of mankind and how it looks
upon the very meaning and purpose of life. It can change what
we strive for, how we look at ourselves and others, what goals
we set, and how we live.
In regards to proof of existence of God, opinions range from
“there is no god,” to “the existence of God cannot be proven or
disproven,” to “the existence of God can be proven.” Abdu’l-
Baha was of the latter mind, and this paper follows His lead.
The meaning of proof, types of proof, and conditions of the
existence of a proof are explored. A few of the classical proofs
of the existence of God are briefly examined. Some of the
modern reasons believed by some to show why God is not
needed to explain the universe are also reviewed.
The proof of existence of God is pursued on two levels,
which have been the traditional stomping grounds of those
examining this question: the phenomenal world and its
fundamental laws and properties, and the evolution of species
on earth. The approaches chosen are necessarily extra-scientific,
that is, beyond the domain of science, but not beyond the
domain of rational discourse. More specifically, it is shown that

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
“something cannot result from nothing,” or put metaphorically,
“there is no free lunch.” This pre-existence principle is applied
to the physical world itself and the properties embedded therein.
The
pre-existence
principle
is
also
applied
to
the
phenomenon of evolution by examining information contents
at various organizational levels of living organisms. A second
approach applied to evolution is based on probabilities. A
simplified model of DNA permutation is presented and argued
that low level organizations cannot spontaneously assemble into
higher level organizations by a purely random process.
It is concluded that the ultimate source of pre-existence is
God, and that the pre-existent properties are attributes of God.
It is further suggested, as one possibility, that the DNA
molecule
is
endowed
with
pre-existent
potentials
and
configurations of life gradually triggered to be revealed over
the course of time under particular circumstances and stimuli,
which is outwardly observed as evolution.
Introduction
We make mention of thee for the sake of God, and
desire that thy name may be exalted through thy
remembrance of God, the Creator of earth and of heaven.
He, verily, is witness unto that which I say. [ESW 60]
Far from being an esoteric question, the origins of creation,
and by some implications, the existence of God, is probably the
oldest question on the collective mind of humanity and
individuals, and the most important. Even though inquiry into
the origins of creation may not seem like a concern that affects
the daily life, but it does, in direct and indirect ways. Our world
view, the model we assume when we think what life is all about,
is clearly affected by our views of God, where He fits in that
world view, and how He is related to us and our lives.

Origins of Creation
This is a complex and multi-faceted subject matter. Many
classical arguments and counter-arguments exist for and against
the existence of God. These arguments are largely concerned
with finding an explanation for the origins and nature of the
universe we observe. More recently, however, and most notably
since the early twentieth century, the focus has become the
search of plausible scientific explanations for the origins and
nature of the universe, largely divorced from the concept of a
god. But such science-based endeavors have not been limited to
finding explanations for the origins of the universe, but also to
explain many of the phenomena within the universe, and most
notably, the evolution of species on earth.
It is important to briefly recount some of the most notable
arguments for and against the existence of God and His role in
creation. The survey of these arguments serves to lay to rest
basic classical questions and approaches that have already been
asked, discussed, answered, countered, and reasserted many
times and in many forms in the course of human history, and
open the way for new ways of looking at these questions and
consider new interpretations of aspects of some of these old
arguments.
To better understand both the old questions and their new
interpretations, basic concepts in logic, probability, and the
DNA molecule are reviewed as foundational principles needed
in this discourse. The gist of the arguments presented in this
paper is not anti-scientific, but extra-scientific, based on the
notion that science is a subset of rational discourse, and not the
other way around.
The scope of this paper is limited to exploring the origins of
existence and the meaning and requirements of proof of such
origins. This paper is not directed to the technical details of
cosmology or evolution, even though enough of the relevant
science is presented to allow a common and unambiguous
understanding of the assertions and arguments.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The proof of existence of God, or alternatively, the origins
of the universe or other major phenomena such as life, define
two areas for our exploration. These two areas of inquiry have
been the traditional stomping grounds of those examining these
questions
and
include
the
phenomenal
world
and
its
fundamental laws and properties, and the evolution of species
on earth. Indeed, these two areas have been fertile grounds for
and subjects of many recent books about how the universe came
to be, how life began, and what drives the evolution of species
on earth. Some of these well-known books include A Brief
History of Time (1988) by Steven Hawking, The Selfish Gene
(1976) and The God Delusion (2006) by Clinton Richard
Dawkins, and The God Argument (2013) by A.C. Grayling.
Why Do We Care?
Generally, we are only curious about things which are
intriguing and interesting, but care about things that affect us
in real ways. The question of origins of creation is both
intriguing and affects us in real ways through world view,
cultural norms, artistic expressions, social interactions,
psychological
disposition,
political
discourse,
and
the
establishment and operation of civil laws.
Our world view, although not an everyday concern, plays a
very important role in how we live our lives, whom we befriend,
our politics, our goals in life, and other long-term
considerations. Those who believe in God often also believe in
an afterlife and some sort of reward and punishment in that
afterlife. They also find certain meanings for life as part of a
grand cosmological plan. Conversely, those who do not believe
in God have less definitive views on life and related subjects. Of
course, none of these observations prove or disprove the
existence of God and no claims of superiority of one view over
another is intended. They merely show that it does matter
whether we believe in God or not.

Origins of Creation
Our world view in turn affects our belief system and the
cultural norms and artistic expressions we adopt or subscribe
to. For example, the art arising out of cultures with a
significant presence of religion, such as in 17th and 18th
century Europe, show this presence in their paintings,
sculptures, and music.
Our world view and belief system also affect the laws that
reflect the social and moral values of the society through the
political system. There are clear distinctions between laws
supported and promoted by political parties more closely
affiliated with a religion, than those supported by less religious
parties. Again, the point here is not to claim superiority one
way or another but to show differences.
And of course, the effects of belief or non-belief in God do
not end with culture, art, or law and carry onto almost all
aspects of our lives such as education, diet, family, and many
others.
Methodologies of Acquisition of Knowledge
How do we come to acquire new knowledge or discover a
truth about something and know that it is the truth? One way is
the rational proof, which is closely related to the scientific
method: we make some observations and hypothesize a theory.
If we can prove the theory, then we have arrived at the truth.
Although similar, but this process is not the same as the
scientific method.
The scientific method may be generally formulated as
follows:1
1. Make observations
2. Formulate a hypothesis to explain the observations
3. Test or prove the hypothesis using controlled experiments

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The scientific method is an inductive process: we go from
specific
observations
to
general
conclusions.
Inductive
reasoning is by nature, strictly speaking, inconclusive and
evolutionary. The conclusion is only as good as the current
collection of observations allows. The next observation may
alter the conclusion. For example, if one observes a sequence of
numbers such as 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, ..., and is then asked to
predict what the next number in the sequence would be, he may
present the hypothesis that this pattern is defined by the
sequence of even numbers, and thus the next number should be
14. However, if the next number revealed in the observed
sequence happens to be 25, then the assumed hypothesis turns
out to be wrong and a different hypotheses will be needed. This
inductive phenomenon is well known in the history of science
and is behind all scientific progress: as new data are discovered,
scientific explanations evolve to explain the old and the new
data.
The inductive process is markedly different from the
deductive process. In contrast to the inductive process, the
deductive process, which is a main component of rational
reasoning, is conclusive and fixed. Once a truth is deductively
proven, it will never change, in contrast to scientific discoveries
and theories. That’s why ancient mathematical theories in
geometry and algebra, or other areas of mathematics, once
proven, have never been “improved.” The area of a circle, A,
represented as πr2, where r is the radius of the circle and π is a
constant (3.14...), was discovered and proven deductively, not
scientifically. They did not cut out an assortment of circular
discs and measure their areas in a laboratory to come up with
this formula. Samples or observed circles, although examined
for insight, did not play a pivotal or necessary role in proving
this formula; deductive reasoning did. As a matter of fact, this
formula for the area of a circle may be derived by dividing a
circle into an infinite number of slices, like a pizza. But since
no physical object, such as sample discs, can be divided

Origins of Creation
infinitely, the proof is abstract and purely rational, not
scientific, strictly speaking.
A closely related question is what does it mean to prove
something? How do we know we have proven what we set out
to prove? Having a “proof” generally means a valid conclusion
is reached about a statement. Mathematically, the proof of a
theorem means that the theorem, as defined, is true and that it
contains no errors. For example, a theorem in geometry may
state that the sum of internal angles of a triangle is 180º. Given
the definitions of a triangle, angle, and sum, it can be
mathematically proven that this theorem is true. Proof is based
on the deductive process. In contrast, a scientific theory is only
inductively verified, not proved, as discussed above.
The existence of a proof requires two main elements: facts
and principles. The process of deduction, also known as
reasoning, is the application of known principles or rules, which
are themselves previously proven theorems, to facts to prove a
new theorem. Thus, for a proof of the existence of God, facts
related to the origins of existence are needed that require an
explanation and principles are needed to show the new theorem
is consistent with other known principles. In his many
discourses about God, Abdul-Bahá did not shy away from
propounding rational proofs of the existence of God based on
facts and principles, some of which are briefly recounted here.
A few words are in order about what does not constitute
proof. Stories, personal experiences, conjectures, and other
similar evidence about various theorems, including the existence
of God, even if true, do not rise to the level of proof. This
assertion is not meant to belittle such evidence or aver their
invalidity, but rather to distinguish them from a logical proof.
Who is the Expert?
With the ubiquitous success of science and scientific
theories, especially over the last couple of centuries or so, many

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
people have adopted the idea that “scientific” is synonymous
with “valid,” and even further, that science is the only path to
the truth. That is, a theory is only valid if it is scientific and
anything that is not scientific is invalid. However, based on our
brief discussion of the scientific method above, science is
chiefly generated using inductive reasoning. A whole class of
rational activity based on deductive reasoning fundamentally
lies outside the domain of science. Simply put, science is a
subset of the rational faculty, not vice versa. Hence, everything
valid is not necessarily scientific and anything that is not
scientific is not necessarily invalid. Of course, scientific
discovery is a complex business involving all manners of
rational activity at different stages, including deductive
reasoning. Nevertheless, the main rational ingredient of
scientific endeavor is inductive reasoning.
The quest for origins of creation, and the question of
existence of God, is multi-faceted and necessarily involves a
good deal of every rational discipline and technique, including
science, philosophy, mathematics, inductive and deductive
reasoning, abductive reasoning, common sense, and other
rational
approaches.
Non-rational
approaches,
such
as
inspiration, dream, revelation, prayer, and other similar
approaches may result in even stronger personal beliefs in the
existence of God, but they are based on personal experience and
are only valid for the person experiencing such feelings. They
are not transferrable to others like rational techniques are.
Hence, we are not concerned with personal experiences here,
only rational techniques.
Thus the “expert” in this endeavor is one who is familiar
with and reasonably versed in rational discourse, sciences, and
philosophy and can best combine the rational techniques and
scientific knowledge in creative ways to explain the facts and
data related to the origins of creation based on logic.

Origins of Creation
The Primacy of Logic
Logic is the glue that binds together other knowledge to
come up with valid conclusions and is the one indispensable
tool of rational discourse. As such, logic has precedence over
science, laws of physics, biology, the brain, and any other area
of human endeavor. Let’s see why.
Logic is, at its very core, a specification of the existential
requirements of any conclusion or result. Mathematically, three
necessary and sufficient logical operators exist to specify any
logical
statement:
AND,
OR,
and
NOT.
There
is
a
mathematically equivalent single operator, NAND, that may
serve the same purpose, but the original set of three operators is
more intuitive. The AND operator specifies all the requirements
(among those elements being considered) for a true conclusion,
the OR operator specifies one or more of the requirements (all
are not necessary) for a true conclusion, and NOT specifies an
element that must not be true for a conclusion to be true.
Simple examples can illustrate the concept: water AND soil are
needed for a flower to grow; you can go to the store by bicycle
OR on foot; NOT being locked allows a door to be opened. In
each of the foregoing examples, the operator is shown in
underlined bold font, the requirements are shown in italics, and
the conclusion or effect resulting from the requirements is
shown in normal text. Thus, as we initially observed, the logical
operators specify the requirements of existence of the result (or
a true conclusion, in the context of information processing).
Logic is also like an information pipe, to use a metaphor. It
is content-invariant and knowledge-agnostic. Logic is not
concerned with what specific subject we are reasoning about. It
also is not concerned about the correctness of the knowledge we
use in our reasoning. For example, if we state that “an elephant
fits in a tea cup; a tea cup fits in my pocket, therefore, an
elephant fits in my pocket,” we are using perfectly valid logic
and correct reasoning, but with faulty knowledge. This is known

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
as valid but unsound logic (or reasoning) due to the incorrect
data or knowledge.
However, logic is not quite as simple as one may be lead to
believe from the foregoing examples. What we briefly discussed
above is propositional logic, dealing with logical constants.
Higher order predicate logic, such as the first order predicate
logic, the second order predicate logic, etc., deal with logical
functions and quantifiers and are well-known subjects in the
field
of
mathematical
logic.
The
difference
between
propositional logic and predicate logic, apart from technical
mathematical criteria such as whether or not they are
“consistent” and “complete” systems, is that propositional logic
is concerned with logical constants whose truth values are fixed,
while predicate logic deals with logical variables and functions.
This is loosely analogous to arithmetic and algebra, where
arithmetic is used to operate on constant numbers and algebra is
used to deal with variable numbers and functions of numbers.
Just as the complexity of advanced mathematics does not
change the fact that it is basically a study of quantities and how
they are related to each other, the complexity level of logic does
not change the fact that it is about existential conditions of
rational conclusions.
How does all this show the primacy of logic over science and
the laws of physics? It is a question of dependence: for any
entities A and B, if B depends on A, then A must exist first and
B can only exist afterwards. Existence of an entity precedes
every property of the entity, because no other property of the
entity can exist before the entity itself exists. Since logic
defines the existential conditions of any entity, it comes first.
That includes all physical phenomena and laws of nature. We
may have gotten a bit too abstract here, so let’s come back to
earth, to a more concrete and practical level. As far as we know
at this point of human advancement, the laws of nature, such as
the laws of thermodynamics, gravity, quantum physics, and
other such fundamental laws clearly underlie the physical reality

Origins of Creation
we perceive. Our understanding of these laws changes over
time, yet the logical rules we use in our reasoning to rationally
understand and analyze these very laws of nature remain
unchanged.
Conversely,
no
matter
how
our
scientific
understanding of the laws of physics or nature change, our
logical methods do not. Thus, as far as our cognition is
concerned, our understanding of natural phenomena through
science is dependent upon logic, but the rules of logic are not
dependent on our understanding of the laws of nature. Hence,
the priority and primacy of logic.
A Survey of Classical Arguments for the Existence of God
A few of the classical proofs of the existence of God are
briefly examined below. Some of the modern reasons believed
by some to show why God is not needed to explain the universe
are also reviewed. This survey helps us avoid redundant
discussions and also focuses our attention on new approaches
which overcomes the objections to the classical arguments. This
survey is by no means comprehensive or an exhaustive
treatment of the classical arguments. It only describes the best
known arguments to avoid covering the grounds already
covered many times by others.
The classical arguments may be classified into several
categories as follows. Even though one argument is presented
under each category, there are many variations of these
arguments in each category, which are not treated in any detail
here.
Cosmological Arguments
Presumably
Aristotle
and
Plato,
the
famed
Greek
philosophers, were the first ones to propose the cosmological,
or First Cause, arguments to explain the origins of creation and,
by implication, prove the existence of God. Over the ages and
even to the present, there have been many variations of this
proof with various levels of details. For example, Abdul-Bahá

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
uses a similar argument to show the existence of God [SAQ 202-
204]. In one of his books2, William Hatcher, the Canadian
mathematician, goes through a rigorous mathematical treatment
of this subject using logic and set theory.
The basic outline of this theory is based on the concept of
causality, which defines a temporal cause-and-effect chain. Each
link in this chain is both an effect of the previous cause and a
cause to the next effect. For example, a cloud is an effect
caused by the sun, and it is also the cause of rain. Rain is the
effect of a cloud and the cause of plant growth, and so on.
Tracing the causality chain backwards through time must get us
to a “First Cause” which is not itself the effect of anything else.
The First Cause is necessary because otherwise we would be
dealing with an infinite temporal chain, which seems like a futile
effort for explaining the creation.
Backward tracking from effects to First Cause


Figure 1: The chain of Cause-and-Effect, and the First Cause
The most compelling objection to this proof is that why this
“First Cause” needs to be a god? Why can’t the laws of nature,
or the big bang be this First Cause? There are responses to this
objection, but none seem to be very convincing because they
only explain some aspects of this proof while other aspects
remain unexplained. For example, Hatcher shows that the chain
of causality, though it can start out as multiple branches or an
infinite number of parallel chains, must end in a single First
Cause. That is, each chain cannot have its own First Cause. This
point shows that there exists a single First Cause or a single
God. However, this does not explain why the First Cause has to
FIRST
CAUSE
Effect-1/
Cause-2
Effect-2/
Cause-3
Effect-3/
Cause-4

Origins of Creation
be a willful, intelligent, and conscious being as the notion of a
god normally implies.
Teleological Arguments
Teleological arguments for the existence of God are based on
the idea of purposeful design. This argument, which is most
commonly but not exclusively applied to explain the evolution
of species on earth, avers that complex systems, such as living
organisms, cannot come into being without an intelligent
designer who has purposefully designed them.
Abdul-Bahá uses a similar argument. He expounds that a
combination (for example, a system) is made possible only by
three different means: inherence, accident, and design [PUP 423].
A combination exists by inherence if its components are
inherently associated with each other, such as flame and heat.
Since combinations of animal organs and parts are not inherent,
this method cannot be responsible for a new species. A
combination exists by accident if its components are associated
accidentally, such as wind blowing a leaf into a room. But
animal species are too complex to be explained by blind luck.
So, only the design option remains to explain complex live
organisms and species.
However, the modern evolution theory purports to explain
how blind luck can actually create organisms of arbitrary
complexity from lower forms. As further described below in
more detail, the modern evolution theory describes the
appearance of a new species as a result of the operation of two
major processes: random mutation and natural selection.
During the random mutation phase variations appear in existing
species, and during the natural selection phase the organisms or
animals fittest for a particular environment survive and other
variations vanish over time, hence the common phrase “survival
of the fittest.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Thus, the counter argument for creation by design is that the
appearance of new and complex species, including homo sapiens
or the modern human, is explained by the theory of evolution
without resorting to a god or purposeful design.
Anthropic Arguments
Anthropic refers to human-centric elements. Based on
observations of laws of nature, some have come to believe that
the whole of universe has been designed to make the existence
of humans possible. A brief summary of some of these
observations follows.
It has been calculated that the density of matter in the
universe must be almost exactly at a critical density needed to
preclude the “Big Crunch,” the complement of the Big Bang,
later described. Recent measurements suggest that the observed
density of matter augmented with theoretical predictions of the
amount of dark matter account for only about 30% of this
critical density. The balance is contributed by a cosmological
constant, the energy density of the vacuum of space. The Nobel
Laureate in Physics Steven Weinberg provided an anthropic
explanation for this phenomenon. He remarked that the
cosmological constant has a very low value, amounting to 120
orders of magnitude smaller than the value predicted by particle
physics, dubbed the “worst prediction in physics.” The point is
that if the cosmological constant were only one order of
magnitude larger than its observed value, the universe would
suffer a catastrophic inflation (described below), which would
preclude the formation of stars, and in turn life itself.
Similarly, the observed values of the dimensionless physical
constants, such as the coupling constant which characterizes the
strength of the electromagnetic interaction, governing the four
fundamental forces of nature (macroscopic gravity and
electromagnetic forces, and subatomic strong and weak forces)
are balanced as if fine-tuned to permit the formation of
commonly found matter and subsequently the emergence of life.

Origins of Creation
For example, even a slight increase in the strong nuclear force
would bind the dineutron and the diproton particles such that
nuclear fusion would have converted all hydrogen in the early
universe to helium. Under such conditions, water and stable
stars, both essential for the emergence of life, would not exist.
More generally, small changes in the relative strengths of the
four fundamental forces and their interactions can greatly
affect the universe’s age, structure, and capacity for life.
The anthropic principle is not a complete proof of the
existence of a designer for the universe in a mathematical sense.
Rather, it is a highly precise observation that provides some
strong evidences and points to the likely existence of such
designer. The current argument against the anthropic principle
is the concept of a multi-verse, or multiple universes, which
spontaneously pop into existence out of utter nothingness, each
with its own random set of laws and parameters. The one we are
currently in just happens to have the exact makeup required to
support life and, voilả, here we are discussing it; very
convenient arrangement indeed.
Ontological Arguments
Probably the most common types of classical “proofs” for
the existence of God, and the least compelling in view of our
modern knowledge, are based on ontological arguments. Many
such arguments border on sophistry and paradoxical excursions.
A few examples that follow should make it clear that most
ontological arguments are inadequate, and indeed, misleading
paths to the truth.
Ontology is the study of being or existence. Many of the
arguments have little basis in proven or scientific facts and
instead depend on presumptions about the nature of being, the
structure
of
universe,
and
how
nature
works.
These
presumptions are used to prove that God must exist.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
By most accounts, the earliest ontological argument is
attributed to Anselm of Canterbury in the 11th century A.D.
Anselm based his argument on his definition of God as the
greatest thing that can be imagined or conceived. He then
argued that this being could exist in the mind. He suggested
that, if the greatest possible being exists in the mind, it must
also exist in reality. If it only exists in the mind, a greater being
is possible—one which exists in the mind and in reality. This
argument is based on many presumptions which at best are not
very plausible, such as imagining the greatest thing, and also has
logical flaws such as if something exists in one’s mind it must
also exist in reality based on the presumed meaning of the
“greatest possible being”.
Other ontological arguments have been proposed throughout
the ages by some renowned thinkers and philosophers such as
the 17th century French philosopher René Descartes and the
20th century Austrian mathematician Kurt Gödel. Gödel
proposed a more elaborate and mathematically rigorous version
of Anselm’s arguments, but in essence it is still closer to
presumptuous sophistry than proof.
Thermodynamics Arguments
Thermodynamics is a very basic science, which studies the
relationships between various forms of energy in a system. It
includes a number of basic laws. Thermodynamics has four
fundamental laws, zero through three. The zeroth law is related
to thermal equilibrium of systems; the first law is related to
thermal energy; the second law, and the one that concerns us
here, is related to system entropy; and the third law is also
related to entropy.
More precisely, the second law states: the entropy of a closed
system not in thermal equilibrium increases. Closed systems
spontaneously move towards thermal equilibrium, which is also
the state of maximum entropy of the closed system. This law has
profound physical and also philosophical implications. These

Origins of Creation
implications originate from and revolve around the concept of
entropy.
Entropy is a measure of the number of ways a system and its
components may be arranged, the components being any and all
parts of the system including atomic, sub-atomic, and quantum
particles. Indeed, at the most fundamental quantum levels, the
laws of thermodynamics, like most quantum concepts, are
expressed in terms of the probabilities of particles behaving in a
particular way. Another interpretation, or implication, of
entropy is that it is a measure of disorder in the system. This
behavior of entropy implies that in a closed system disorder
increases. In other words, a closed system cannot spontaneously
become more organized, unless an energy source external to the
system interferes (which then violates the “closed” system
condition).
As we’ll see later, the concept of spontaneous organization
plays an important role in the discourse on the existence of
God. Some have argued that the second law precludes the
spontaneous evolution of species from lower forms to higher
ones, and their arguments are not entirely without merit.
However, the second law in and of itself is insufficient for this
purpose as many have pointed out. For one thing, the second
law is about energy, not everything else, at least not directly.
Extending the second law to cover the evolution of species and
formation of the universe itself at which time no laws of nature
existed, including the laws of thermodynamics, is not without
substantial difficulties.
Limits-based Arguments
One of the apparently simplest, and at the same time deepest
proofs of God, or at least one of His most essential attributes,
the attribute of being unlimited, is propounded by Abdul-Bahá:
Now as to the infinite Power that knoweth no
limitations; limitation itself proveth the existence of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
unlimited, for the limited is known through the
unlimited, just as weakness itself proveth the existence
of power, ignorance the existence of knowledge, poverty
the existence of wealth. Without wealth there would be
no poverty, without knowledge no ignorance, without
light no darkness. Darkness itself is a proof of the
existence of light for darkness is the absence of light.
[TAF 20; emphasis added.]
Unfortunately, the explanation left to posterity by Abdul-
Bahá is rather brief. He explained that the very concept or
essence of “limit” implies the limitless. Perhaps, this approach
can be understood as a hierarchy of containments. Every limit
defines a boundary or a container that contains its contents,
and the container itself is contained in a yet bigger container. If
this abstract containment relationship is extended to infinity, at
the end which has no end, one may find traces of God.
However, this approach is different from the approach of
this paper and it is only covered here for completeness.
Current Scientific Belief: The Big Bang and Inflation Theories
The science of physics has undergone not only constant
evolutionary changes throughout the ages, but also several
major revolutionary changes, most notably since the early
Twentieth century. Physics has come a long way since its humble
beginnings in ancient times as a collection of basic un-
instrumented observations and corresponding explanations and
theories. Galileo was one of the early scientists to start the
scientific
method
by
using
actual
observations
and
measurements instead of philosophical presumptions to explain
natural phenomena such as the free falling of objects. Sir Isaac
Newton followed in the footsteps of Galileo in the Seventeenth
century and formalized physics with his laws of motion and
gravitation force between large bodies. More recently, Albert
Einstein, the famed physicist of German origin, revolutionized
our understanding of the laws of nature by his special and then

Origins of Creation
general theories of relativity. Quantum physics added its
interpretations of physical laws at microscopic levels, which
introduced some tensions with the theories of Einstein. Most
recently, a family of theories most commonly recognized under
the label of Superstring Theory, or M-Theory (a set of several
variations
of
the
superstring
theory)
proposed
new
interpretations of the structure of universe to reconcile the
apparent inconsistencies between the relativity theories and the
quantum theory.3
However, all of the above theories are descriptive in nature
and neither provide an explanation for the origins of the
universe, nor do they claim to do so. A theory that does purport
to explain how the universe started is the theory of big bang,
further described below.
The big bang theory is the heart of the standard
cosmological model and is grounded in Einstein’s general theory
of relativity and the idea of expansion of universe, first
proposed in 1927 by the Belgian physics professor Georges
Lemaître, and later supported by the observations of Edwin
Hubble, the American astronomer, in 1929. In 1964, the
detection of cosmic microwave background radiation further
added to the pile of evidence supporting the occurrence of such
an event in the early life of the universe. The cosmic microwave
background radiation is significant because it is consistent
across vast stretches of the observable universe, and thus
suggests a common origin in an ever expanding universe.
Tracking the accelerating rate of expansion of the universe
backwards in time, arrives at an age of about 13.8 billion years,
the birthday of the universe.4
The inflation theory provides an explanation for what is
known as the horizon problem associated with the cosmic
microwave background radiation. Simply stated, the horizon
problem observes that highly distant regions of the universe
have the same temperature and other physical properties despite
not
being
in
physical
communication.
Such
physical

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
communications are precluded across the distances encountered,
which are far greater than even light could travel during the age
of the universe, because the transfer of information (including
energy, heat, and other effects and influences) cannot take place
faster than the speed of light. The size of the universe is
estimated at about 92 billion light years in diameter, while its
age is only 13.8 billion years. So, how is it possible that
locations in the universe farther apart than even light could
travel in the entire age of the universe have such precisely
similar characteristics without being able to influence each
other? Hence, the horizon problem. The inflation theory
proposes a solution: a hyper expansion of the universe in the
first moments after the big bang and then a slower expansion
rate afterwards to this date; thus explaining how vastly
separated points in space can have very similar background
radiation characteristics.5
According to the standard model of cosmology, with the big
bang and the inflation theories at its heart, at the initial moment
of creation, all of time, space, and matter were rolled up into an
unimaginably concentrated and dense point, a state called
singularity. The big bang released all that in a spark, starting an
ever expanding distribution of time, space, and matter to form
the universe. An important concept to note is that according to
the standard model, time and space are not static dimensions for
the matter to grow into, like an empty room into which
furniture is moved. Rather, the very fabric of universe is
composed of time and space, which is stretching out and
expanding, like a balloon, at an accelerating rate. Hence, the
universe is not static but constantly changing, and eventually, in
a distant future billions of years away, it will end in a dark, cold
death. At least that’s what the currently accepted standard
model of cosmology predicts.
The big bang theory, which explains a great deal of observed
phenomena in existence today, is consistently and supported by
precise experimentations. However, it fails to explain where the
“unimaginably concentrated and dense point made up of time,

Origins of Creation
space, and matter” came from prior to the big bang. It merely
pushes the question of the origin of creation back to a supposed
“starting point.” A recent response to the question of “what was
there before the big bang?” is that there was no “before”
because there was no dimension of time and thus the question is
meaningless! Similarly, a response to the question of “what
caused the big bang?” is that the laws of universe including
cause-and-effect did not exist and therefore, the question is,
again, meaningless!
And of course, things do not end with the big bang, but
quite literally start with it, including the evolution of complex
life on earth billions of years later. The same basic questions
that apply to the origin of creation as a whole apply to the
origin of species as a more specific case. The evolution of
species is addressed later on.
However, the clever responses to these questions mentioned
above may be more of a sophisticated scientific dodge than real
answers. These answers merely push the question of origin one
step back, to a supposed “beginning,” without explaining where
this beginning and all the potential phenomena, properties, and
characteristics such as matter, energy, laws of physics, etc. that
flowed from it came from. Below, an alternative explanation is
proposed for the origins of creation.
A New Theory: The Pre-Existence Argument
In the Tablet of Wisdom (Lawh-i Hikmat), Baha’u’llah
explains:
Every thing must needs have an origin and every building
a builder. Verily, the Word of God is the Cause which
hath preceded the contingent world. [TB 141]
In the same Tablet He further expounds:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
As regards thine assertions about the beginning of
creation, this is a matter on which conceptions vary by
reason of the divergences in men’s thoughts and
opinions. Wert thou to assert that it hath ever existed
and shall continue to exist, it would be true; or wert
thou to affirm the same concept as is mentioned in the
sacred Scriptures, no doubt would there be about it, for
it hath been revealed by God, the Lord of the worlds.
Indeed He was a hidden treasure. This is a station that
can never be described nor even alluded to. And in the
station of ‘I did wish to make Myself known’, God was,
and His creation had ever existed beneath His shelter
from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart from
its being preceded by a Firstness which cannot be
regarded as firstness and originated by a Cause
inscrutable even unto all men of learning.
That which hath been in existence had existed before,
but not in the form thou seest today. The world of
existence came into being through the heat generated
from the interaction between the active force and that
which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they
are different. Thus doth the Great Announcement
inform thee about this glorious structure. Such as
communicate the generating influence and such as
receive its impact are indeed created through the
irresistible Word of God which is the Cause of the entire
creation, while all else besides His Word are but the
creatures and the effects thereof. Verily thy Lord is the
Expounder, the All-Wise.
Know thou, moreover, that the Word of God — exalted
be His glory — is higher and far superior to that which
the senses can perceive, for it is sanctified from any
property or substance. It transcendeth the limitations of
known elements and is exalted above all the essential and
recognized substances. It became manifest without any

Origins of Creation
syllable or sound and is none but the Command of God
which pervadeth all created things. It hath never been
withheld from the world of being. It is God’s all-
pervasive grace, from which all grace doth emanate. It is
an entity far removed above all that hath been and shall
be. [TB 140]
We explore the explanations Baha’u’llah left to posterity
about the nature and origin of creation in a modern context and
from different perspectives.
“Something cannot come from nothing” is the essence of the
pre-existence argument. Before going further, we first need to
understand some foundational principles and then come back
and continue with this line of analysis.
The Notion of Continuity Across a Boundary
We live in a world of limits. Everything is defined or
specified based on limits or boundaries. Without boundaries,
nothing can be distinguished from another. For example, we can
distinguish sea from land because each is limited by its
boundary: at some point sea water ends and dry land begins. If
the sea water never ended, dry land would never start and thus
could not be defined. Boundaries have certain basic properties
regardless of their specific nature or functions in a system or
organism. One such basic property is the notion of continuity
across boundaries.
But to be consistent and faithful to the claimed properties of
boundaries, which sets them apart from other concepts, let’s
first define what a boundary itself is: a boundary is an interface
that separates two sets of different entities A and B, as shown
in Figure 2, below. These “entities” may be any objects,
materials, properties, conditions, relationships, etc.; anything at
all, which may be members of a set. It is noteworthy that some
of these entities may be abstract, such as causation in which no
material may cross the boundary, but only influence or

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
information in various forms. The interface is specified by the
very difference between sets A and B. For example, a bicycle
and a motorcycle are different sets of objects, and the interface
that separates them is defined by the differences, such as the
motor in the motorcycle.
The notion of continuity may be loosely characterized as
something having to pass across the boundary to establish a
relationship between or connect the two sides. This relationship
has several distinct aspects embodied in several major concepts
of change or transformation of one set into another across the
boundary. These concepts include conservation laws, causality,
and flow of contents and are pivotal to the pre-existence
argument.

Figure 2: Notion of continuity across a boundary
The Existential Conservation Principle
One form of cross-boundary continuity is embodied in the
laws of conservation. These laws generally state that a particular
quantity of interest is neither created nor destroyed, but rather
it is transformed from one form into another. There are many
laws of conservation depending on a quantity of interest. For
example, some of the basic laws of nature are laws of
conservation such as the law of conservation of energy and the
law of conservation of matter. These laws state, respectively,
that energy or matter is not created or destroyed, but are merely
transformed from one form into another.

A

B

Origins of Creation
In every law of conservation the quantity of interest crosses
an abstract boundary defined by the differences between its
initial state and its final state in the course of a transformation.
For example, according to the law conservation of matter, if a
log is burned, it changes from solid wood into charcoal and
smoke. It is transformed; it is not destroyed. During the
transformation, the material that makes up the wood crosses the
abstract boundary that separates and distinguishes between solid
wood and charcoal (and also the smoke), the abstract boundary
being defined by these differences.
We now introduce a new and very general law of
conservation: the law of conservation of existence, or
existential conservation principle. This law states that the very
existence of an entity cannot come from non-existence or
absolute nothingness; it must be transformed from another
state, a state of pre-existence. Or put more casually, “there is no
free lunch.” To see why this law is true, that is, to prove this
principle, we’ll need the differential principle introduced below.
The Differential Principle
Another form of cross-boundary continuity is embodied in
causality, which has been called one of the most, or even the
most, fundamental law of nature. It is a necessary prerequisite
to all scientific and rational inquiry, without which “laws”
would not be meaningful. This is because, generally, a law is a
statement of a specific type of causation. For example,
Newton’s third law of motion states that “for every action there
is an equal and opposite reaction.” Here, “action” is the cause
and “reaction” is the effect. The principle of causality is
verified by the special theory of relativity in which the space-
time continuum and the constant speed of light provide a
consistent frame-work that shows that cause must always
precede effect. Cause and effect are different sets of entities, as
discussed with respect to Figure 2. Hence, for the cause to
create the effect, the influence it exerts, in whatever form, must

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
needs cross the boundary between the two, establishing a
continuity across the boundary.
The differential principle is related to causality. It may be
considered a particular type of abstract causality without the
physical connotations that we associate with the latter, such as
time. The differential principle states that a set A may be
transformed to a set B or a set C if and only if there is a
differentiating element that directs A to change to B or to C.
For example, a set of wooden parts may be transformed into
either a chair or a coffee table but the construction procedure
differentiate whether they are transformed into one or the
other. Even in a random process something must differentiate
one result from another.
A little set theory can help us in better understanding and
proving the differential principle. Anything, any entity, can be
represented as a set of attributes. The attributes are called the
members of the set and may also be anything, any objects, any
relationship, or another set. Members can also be tangible or
abstract entities. Two sets are equal if and only if their members
are exactly the same. Every set has three main elements: set
members, operations defined on the set, and procedures for
applying the operations to the set members. The procedures
define the order of application of operations to the members
and may be intentional and intelligent or random.
A few examples of sets should make these abstract concepts
more tangible. A bicycle can be represented as the set of the
parts and interrelationships that make up the bicycle. The set of
even integers includes all integers divisible by 2. Addition is an
operation defined on the set of even integers. The procedure of
adding 1 to every member of the set of even integers creates the
set of all odd integers.
To change one set to another, or to generate a new set from
an
existing
one,
the
three
differentiating
elements
(differentiators) of sets are needed: members, operations, and
procedures (information). The resulting set cannot be generated

Origins of Creation
if one of these elements is missing. Additionally, two different
sets generated must be different in at least one of these
differentiators, otherwise the two sets will be one and the same.
Hence, a single set cannot be transformed into two different
sets if there is nothing to differentiate one outcome from
another. Hence, the differential principle.
Now, let’s get back to the existential conservation principle.
The differential principle may be used to show that the
existential conservation principle is true. A new set cannot be
generated from nothing, because the three differentiators are
required to generate it. Let’s look at this in a bit more detail.
The empty set contains no members, there are no operations
defined on it, and no procedure exist to do anything with the
non-existent operations and members. An interesting fact about
the empty set is that there can be only one empty set because
the members of two empty sets are exactly the same: nothing!
And when two sets have the same members, they are the same
set. A new set, which contains some members, cannot result
from an empty set. For the empty set to turn into or to generate
the new set, the three elements of the set (members, operations,
procedures) must exist, but by definition they do not exist in
the empty set. Therefore, the new set cannot be generated,
unless a non-empty set precedes it on the other side of the
boundary. Hence, the existential conservation principle.
The High-to-Low Flow Principle
Bahá’u’lláh writes that nature reflects the “names and
attributes of God”. It is the expression of “God’s Will ... in ...
the contingent world”.
Say: Nature in its essence is the embodiment of My
Name, the Maker, Creator. Its manifestations are
diversified by varying causes, and in this diversity there
are signs for men of discernment. Nature is God’s Will
and is its expression in and through the contingent

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
world. It is a dispensation of Providence ordained by the
Ordainer, the All-Wise. [TAB 142]
In the above passage, Baha’u’llah teaches that the properties
seen in nature are deposited by God. Below, we will examine
particular aspects of this utterance from particular points of
view.
The high to low flow is another principle that revolves
around the notion of continuity across a boundary and is an
important principle with many tangible instances in science and
everyday life for the astute observer. It is also related to the
existential conservation principle.
Based on the differential principle, the flow of content
across a boundary requires something to drive the flow of
content from one side to another. The other side of the
boundary is generated by application of operations to members
of the existing set.
Based on the existential principle, something must exist on
one side of the boundary before the other side can be created. If
we apply the existential principle to a part of the set, we can
come up with an interesting conclusion. The essence of the
existential conservation principle is that from an existing set,
and only from an existing set, a new set may be generated. This
means that the existing set has something more than the non-
existent one, namely, all the set members, operations, and
procedures. With reference to Figure 3 (below), the existing set
A has something more than the new set B. Subset B’ is a portion
of set B. The difference between subset B’ and set A is less than
all, but there is a partial difference that is needed to generate
subset B’. The dotted lines signifies a partial generation of the
new set B from existing set A. There is a deceptively simple
reason for this, as pronounced by Abdul-Bahá in the context of
natural laws:

Origins of Creation
But when you look at Nature itself, you see that it has no
intelligence, no will. For instance, the nature of fire is to
burn; it burns without will or intelligence. ... Man is able
to resist and to oppose nature; ... all the inventions he
has made are due to his discovery of the constitution of
things. ... Now, when you behold in existence such
organization, arrangements and laws, can you say that all
these are the effect of Nature, though Nature has neither
intelligence nor perception? [SAQ 3]
Abdul-Bahá is indicating, in the context of nature in general,
that what nature does not possess itself (i.e., will and
intelligence), it cannot give to man, who does possess both. He
further alludes to the fact that the organization and laws
evident in nature must have come from another source, namely,
from God. To appreciate the significance of Abdu’l-Baha’s
statements above, it is helpful to put it in the context of
boundaries, in which everything that flows into the new set
must come from an existing one.
We can see how the pre-existence conservation principle is
applicable not only to the whole sets A and B, but also to the
partial subset B’ by examining the process of generation of set
B. Starting from a non-existent set B, a portion of set B is
constructed by flow of contents, physical or abstract,
emanating from set A, we proceed portion by portion to build
the set B. During this construction process, set A must always
have more content than subset B’ to supply the additional
subset B’ with its new contents. Additionally, the contents of A
may be embedded in its members, its operations, or its
procedure. Hence, for each partial step of construction of set
B, that is, for each additional subset B’, set A must have
something extra. In other words, “how can you give something
you don’t have?” The giver must always have more than the
receiver. We will call this the partial existential conservation
principle.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
This phenomenon is clearly visible in physical sets, and also in
abstract sets. For example, in a physical set such as a building,
the material used in the building must come from a source
which has more material than the building itself. As an abstract
example, we can look at a set A containing the integer 2 as a
member. If we define an operation “multiply by N,” where N is
any integer, we can generate a set B of all even integers. It seems
like set B including all even integers is generated by set A, yet it
is far greater than set A containing only the integer 2. However,
set A actually includes all integers, not just 2. The rest of the
integers, odd and even, are embedded in “N” within the
definition of the operation “multiply by N.” Thus, set A still has
more than set B. Hence the high-to-low flow principle.
Now, we are ready for a more accurate and practical
statement of the high to low flow principle based on the partial
existential conservation principle: in a closed system, which
implies no external interference and thus spontaneity, content
always flows from a high content level to a low content level
across a boundary. This is a very significant principle with
profound implications, as we shall see later.

Figure 3: Partial existential conservation principle
The high to low flow principle can be seen in several well-
known scientific fields as well. We will briefly consider two of
these fields, the field of thermodynamics and the field of
information theory.

A

B

B’

Origins of Creation
With reference to Figure 4 (below), energy always flows from
high density to low density. This is demonstrated most
prominently by the second law of thermodynamics, which
provides that in a closed system heat (thermal energy) flows
spontaneously from a high-temperature body to a low-
temperature one. To make the heat flow in reverse, that is, from
a low to a high temperature, an external source of energy is
needed. Figure 4(a) shows the external source of energy EX
reversing the flow of energy from a low level, EL, to a high
level, EH. A practical example of this is the common refrigerator
which moves heat from a cold space inside the refrigerator (low
temperature) and expels it outside the refrigerator (high
temperature), with the aid of a refrigeration pump (external
energy source). This is similarly true about potential energy,
which is the energy in a gravitation field, such as mass raised
above ground (high energy state). It can spontaneously fall (to
low energy state) but cannot spontaneously rise up, unless an
external energy source (like your hand) lifts it up.
Figure 4b (below) illustrates the flow of information across a
boundary from a low state to a high state. Information can be
spontaneously lost, but it cannot be spontaneously increased
without external effort. A low information state, IL, can only be
transformed to a high information state, IH, if an external
source of information, IX, is applied. As an example of
information flow, again consider a house. It includes
information embedded in its structure. It contains information
about its own geometry, its construction, its material, etc. If
the house is ruined over time, the information contained in it
will be lost. It goes from high information state to a low
information
state
spontaneously.
However,
construction
materials left alone do not spontaneously assemble into a
building, unless an external source of information, such as the
architect or the builder, supplies the information needed to
assemble the material into a building. This is true even if a
random source of energy, such as the wind, is available. The
available energy does not cure the lack of information.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15


Figure 4: Examples of High-to-Low Flow: (a) Energy, (b)
Information
There are no counter-examples of the high-to-low flow principle
unless an external factor or system is forcing the backward
flow. Such external system when combined with the low content
level system must create a higher content level than the high-
content level system, still upholding the principle of high-to-low
flow, as signified by the dotted enclosure in Figure 4.
Application of Pre-Existence to Creation of Universe
We have laid the foundations of the pre-existence argument
in the form of several principles including the existential
conservation principle, the differential principle, and the high
to low flow principle. We now apply these principles to the
creation of existence.
The story of the big bang is that out of non-existence, that
is, utter nothingness, came the world of existence. Nothingness
is, by definition, the empty set. Then, let’s imagine the state of
nothingness. The empty set can maintain this state and stay the
empty set, or it can change into the set of all things. Why would
the empty set cease to be the empty set and become the set of
all things? According to the existential conservation and the

Origins of Creation
differential principles discussed above, in this scenario, the
empty set has two choices: remain the empty set or become the
set of all things. But something must differentiate between
these two outcomes. And randomness does not change anything
because still something must exist to be random. That
“something,” the differentiator, must exist in the state of
nothingness. Hence, nothingness must contain something! It
must contain the differentiator, which is the same as at least one
of the three set elements discussed above. We have shown a
contradiction with our initial assumption of nothingness, which
means before we got something (e.g., the universe), there was
something else.
As demonstrated above, mathematically-based proofs often
depend on showing a contradiction with an initial assumption,
proving that the opposite of the assumption must be true. We
started with the assumption that before the creation nothing
existed. We only had the empty set. But we showed a
contradiction with this initial assumption, proving the opposite
of nothingness, and specifically proving that even though the
physical universe may have been in a different form prior to big
bang, some form of pre-existence preceded it. Not necessarily in
a chronological sense, but in some ordered sequence realm. A
realm in which there is a “first” and a “next,” a “before” and an
“after,” with respect to that ordered sequence; a sort of an
abstract time concept.
The
current
physical
existence
resulted
from
a
transformation of a pre-existence across a boundary separating
the two; the pre-existence being a realm that may be totally
different and alien to our perception and the way we think
about our physical existence. Hence, the pre-existence argument
proves two points: one, there was “something” “before” the big
bang, something that was transformed by the big bang into its
current physical form. But that “something” was not necessarily
in forms we are familiar with and the “before” is not necessarily
in a chronological sense. And two, we are back to square one in
terms of explaining where the whole of creation came from,

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
since the big bang only pushed the question back, as initially
suggested above. The big bang is not an explanation for the
origins of creation, but a description of the process, or at least
parts of it.
Application of Pre-Existence to Evolution of Species
We addressed one of the two fertile grounds for the
discussion of creation and God, namely, the creation of the
universe and how the big bang cannot be an explanation, but a
description. The second favorite arena for this discussion is
evolution of species on earth. Misconceptions and half-truths
abound in this field among non-experts. As such it is important
to first cover the basics of the modern theory of evolution.
A Brief Primer on Evolution
The theory of evolution itself did not start with Darwin. It
goes back, in one form or another, to ancient times as
philosophers and thinkers tried to make sense of their
observations regarding various animals, life forms, and their
relationships to each other. Some of the better known
philosophers who developed some thoughts and theories
regarding the evolution of species include Plato (427 B.C.),
Aristotle (384 B.C.), Descartes (1628), Buffon (1707), Linnaeus
(1707), Kant (1790), Cuvier (1796), Lamarck (1744), and others.
However, the seeds of the modern theory of evolution, which
is widely accepted today, were planted by Charles Darwin’s 1859
book On the Origin of Species. Although Darwin did not know
about DeoxyriboNucleic Acid (better known as “DNA”)
molecule and genes, he meticulously observed that species
change over time based on the demands of their environment.
He proposed the theory that this change is due to natural
selection (we will revisit this concept a bit later). But this is not
the whole story of evolution. When we think about the concept
of natural selection, the question that naturally and inevitably
comes up is: selection among what options? Where did these

Origins of Creation
options come from in the first place to select from? Let’s
briefly see how evolution works.
The DNA
To understand how the theory of evolution explains the
change and diversification of species, we need to have a basic
understanding of the building blocks of life. DNA is a very long
molecule that holds the information or code for building living
organisms. This information is in the form of encoded genetic
instructions. DNA has a particular structure, a double-stranded
helical ladder composed of a backbone made of alternating
sugar molecules (deoxyribose) and phosphate molecules, and
nucleotides made of four nucleobase molecules attached to the
sugars. Each nucleotide is composed of one nucleobase,
including Guanine (G), Adenine (A), Thymine (T), and Cytosine
(C).6
Notwithstanding other details, DNA’s most prominent
feature is that it is essentially a structure for stringing together
a combination of A, C, G, and T, such as T-T-G-T-C-C-A-C-T-
A-A-A-G-G ... . The two strands in the double helix are mirror
images of each other and every nucleotide has a fixed
complement: across (not adjacent to) the ladder, A and T always
go together, as do G and C. The pairs A-T and G-C are also
called base pairs. So, if one strand has T at one point, the other
strand has an A at the same point opposite this strand; and the
same for C and G. That’s how DNA molecule reproduces itself,
which happens every time a cell divides. The double helix
“unzips” down the middle into two single strands. Each single
strand chemically binds to its mirror image nucleotide one at a
time to reconstruct a double helix. Thus, two double helix
strands result via this process from the original one.
For most part, DNA sequences may be divided into encoding
and non-encoding. The encoding DNA is used to encode and
synthesize proteins, which make up the physical body of living
organisms. The non-encoding DNA sequences are mostly

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
functional structures, such as transfer RNAs and regulatory
RNAs. The human DNA is about 98% non-encoding. Other
species have different proportions of encoding and non-
encoding sequences.
Whether
encoding
or
non-encoding,
DNA
sequence
combinations play a critical role in the formation and function
of life. This assertion becomes obvious when we realize that the
difference between a bee, an elephant, an octopus, and a human
is the particular combination of their respective DNA. If the
DNA of an elephant is rearranged in exactly the right way, an
octopus will result, not an elephant. That’s the miracle of the
DNA: one mechanism, almost unlimited designs.
The DNA is further organized into functional segments
called genes, each of which performs one or more functions
such as synthesize particular types of proteins. The human
genome contains about 30,000 genes on 46 chromosomes. A
chromosome is a structure composed of a large segment of the
DNA molecule containing hundreds or thousands of genes.
With each gene having an average of about 100,000 base pairs,
the whole human DNA contains about 3,000,000,000 (3 Billion
or 3B) base pairs. In addition to the structure of DNA briefly
described here, the genes can switch on and off, which controls
the performance and timing of gene expressions and their
respective functions.
In summary, the sequence or combination of base pairs and
the combination of genes and their switching control the
production, function, and behavior of every animal and every
part or organ of that animal. The functions and behaviors
include internal functions such as physiology, immune system,
digestion, reproduction, and the like, and external functions
such as various instincts, locomotion, mating habits, and the
like. When the combinations change, so do the characteristics or
the very identity of the animal the new combination produces.

Origins of Creation
The Nuts and Bolts of Evolution
We can now get back to the business of evolution. The
evolution of species includes two major processes: mutation
and natural selection. These twin processes are not rare events
and occur in all living organisms on a constant basis. Mutation
means rapid change or transformation, and it is the true engine
of evolution. In the context of evolution, mutation means a
change of the DNA sequence, or arrangement of base-pairs.
Other effects of mutation may include changes in the makeup
and the switching characteristics of genes. Mutation is believed
to occur randomly as a result of various factors, some internal
and some external. The most important internal factor is DNA
replication error. During DNA replication, the wrong
nucleotide may be copied altering the DNA sequence and the
biological characteristics that flow from it in the resulting
animal. Since cells constantly divide to keep our bodies renewed
and functioning, mutations happen all the time due to
replication errors. External sources of mutation include
radiation, chemicals, and cosmic rays.
What mutation does for evolution is to create variations in
species. When an animal’s DNA changes by mutation, the
offspring of that animal will have different DNA and different
characteristics than its parent. And from then on, a new
variation of that animal, or even a new species starts. So, as
more mutations happen more variations in the species occur
also. But every different characteristic of an animal allows a
different interaction with the environment in which the animal
lives. For example, if a mutation causes the legs of a deer to
grow a bit longer, then the deer can run faster, but longer lanky
legs may also be less nimble and maneuverable. So, depending
on the deer’s environment, terrain, and types of predators the
longer legs may help or hurt its survival. This is where natural
selection comes in, the second process of evolution.
Natural selection is as much a brilliant idea as it is simple. It
is almost common sense, once you know it. It simply means that

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
the animal with the characteristics that make it the fittest for
the particular environment in which the animal lives, has the
best chance of survival and reproduction. Hence, the fittest
animal flourishes while the animals with characteristics that
makes them less fit for that particular environment eventually
die out. From this simple definition a few important points may
be gleaned.
One, natural selection is based on fitness relative to the
environment. There is no such thing as fitness in a vacuum. The
concept of fitness is relative to how well certain animal
characteristics help the animal survive in a particular
environment. The same exact characteristic that may be a
liability in one environment, may be a valuable asset in another.
The slender legs of a deer make it a fast runner, but not a fast
swimmer, just as the flippers of a seal make it fast swimmer, but
not a fast runner.
Two, the threshold of natural selection is death because death
prevents the reproduction and continuation of a particular
variation of a species. Natural selection may take shorter or
longer time to complete, but if the characteristic that is less
suitable for a particular environment does not result in the
death, and thus, the non-reproduction of the animal, then that
variation will simply survive and become another animal in the
environment. For example, Indian lions and tigers, which are
variations of a big cat, have different markings and different
hunting behaviors, but both survive in the forests of India. This
is because their variations in that particular environment do not
rise to the threshold of death for either species and so both
species continue to survive.
Three, natural selection for the same animal can come about
because of a change in the animal or a change in its
environment. This is because natural selection is based not just
on the characteristics of the animal, but on the interactions
between these characteristics and its environment. For example,
polar bears thrive in the cold winters of the north pole, but if

Origins of Creation
the temperature of the pole rises beyond a certain threshold,
then even though the bears have not changed, they may be
selected by nature for extinction due to the shortage of food
and hunting grounds.
In summary, evolution continues when the process of
mutation creates random variation of species and the process of
natural selection selects the fittest ones. This way, new species
evolve and change by accumulating little changes over time and
the animal species increase in number and diversity.
This all sounds very plausible and of course there are literally
tons of science and data supporting change, survival, and
extinction of species due to the process of evolution. So, what’s
wrong with this theory or belief, the plausibility of random
mutations? To answer this question, we first need to understand
large numbers and the probabilities associated with them.
Abdul-Bahá briefly explains the sources of formation of
various entities, including species of animals. He explains:
On this account the materialists are of the opinion that
life is the mere conjoining of elemental substances into
myriad forms and shapes. The materialist comes to the
conclusion that life, in other words, means composition;
that wherever we find single elements combined in
aggregate form, there we behold the phenomena of
organic life; that every organic composition is organic
life. Now if life means composition of elements, then
the materialist may come to the conclusion of the non-
necessity of a composer, the non-necessity of a creator;
for composition is all there is to it, and that is
accomplished by adhesion or cohesion. In response to
this we say that composition must needs be of three
kinds:
One
form
of
composition
is
termed
philosophically the accidental, another the involuntary,
and a third the voluntary. As to the first, or accidental,
composition: This would signify that certain elements

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
through inherent qualities and powers of attraction or
affinity have been gathered together, have blended, and
so composed a certain form, being or organism. This can
be proven to be false; for composition is an effect, and
philosophically no effect is conceivable without
causation. ... It is self-evidently false. [PUP 423]
Below, we take a closer and more modern look at what
Abdul-Bahá terms “accidental.” We explore the reasons why
Abdul-Bahá stated, with regard to accidental composition, that
“It is self-evidently false.”
A Brief Primer on Probability and Large Numbers
For our purposes, the discussion of probabilities and their
application to random mutation in an evolutionary context,
requires a clear understanding of large numbers and the
associated probabilities. So, we dedicate a few paragraphs to
each of these related topics.
Large Numbers
Size matters! Just as a glass of water from the ocean, even
though identical in composition, cannot contain a whale, does
not generate waves, and does not support the development of a
hurricane, when large numbers are involved, questions of
probabilities transform into questions of possibilities.
We can talk about Quadrillion (1015), Googol (10100), and
Googolplex (10Googol), to name a few famous large numbers, but
to truly understand the significance and impact of large
numbers, we have to look elsewhere. An important key to
understanding large numbers is growth rate. Generally, a change
in a cause creates a corresponding, but not necessarily
proportional change in its effect. We can appreciate the impact
of the change in a cause-and-effect context. For example, the
speed of a car before an accident is the cause of its impact (zero
speed = zero impact). Observing the difference in damages

Origins of Creation
between impacts resulting from a speed of 10 m.p.h. and a
speed of 25 m.p.h., can tell us something more about the effect
of speed than observing just one instance of damage. It tells us
about the relationship between the cause and effect. In many
phenomena encountered in nature, the relationship between
cause and effect is not linear. That is, doubling the cause may
change the effect less or more than double.
Another important key to appreciating size is comparison to
a well-understood quantity. A poignant example is the number
of electrons in the universe. One would think this number
should be unimaginably large, and it is, but it doesn’t look like
it. The number of electrons in the known universe is estimated
by the Eddington Number (NEdd = number of protons = number
of electrons = 1.57×1079), which is less than only 1080! Compare
this to the number of grains of sand on all the beaches on earth.
If one is asked about the number of grains of sand, chances are
he would estimate it to be more than 1080, or something of this
order, without understanding the truly gigantic size of this
number. So, let’s start by noting that the earth itself is smaller
than a grain of sand in comparison to the whole universe, and
that each real grain of sand has trillions of trillions of electrons
within it.
To fully understand and appreciate the size of this number,
let’s get some help from growth rate. Avagadro’s number
specifies the number of atoms in a gram-atom (atomic mass
number in grams) of a material. For example, a gram-atom of
the element Iron (Fe) is 56, which means a gram-atom of Iron is
56 grams. The Avagadro’s number is numerically equal to 6.022
x 1023. Imagine a 56 gram piece of iron, such as a 4-inch nail. It
literally contains 6.022 x 1023 actual Iron atoms. Now let’s grow
this number from about 1023 to 1080. All of a sudden we go from
a humble 4-inch nail which fits in the palm of your hand to the
size of the entire universe! We can begin to see the immensity
of 1080, and even further, the immensity of exponential growth,
because by increasing the exponent of Avagadro’s number, 23,
merely by 57 (to get to 80), we grow from the size of a nail to

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
the size of the universe. And the growth is even greater than it
appears here, because 1080 is the number of electrons which are
much more numerous than atoms and molecules specified by the
Avagadro’s number.
Probability
With our new and improved understanding of large numbers,
we can now turn our attention to the basics of probabilities.
Probability is the field of mathematics for the study of
“ignorance,” or put more delicately, imperfect knowledge. At
its heart, probability is a counting game. We count an outcome
or event of interest (Ei) among all possible outcomes or events
(Ea) in a process. We say the probability (P) of an outcome of
interest is the ratio of the outcomes of interest to all possible
outcomes: P(Ei) = Ei/Ea.
A few simple examples should make this concept clear. As a
first example, a coin has two sides, heads and tails. So, the
number of possible outcomes of a coin toss (the process) is 2. If
our outcome of interest is heads, the probability of getting
heads is: P(heads) = heads/[heads or tails] = 1/2 = 0.5 = 50%,
which is intuitively obvious.
As a second example, consider a deck of playing cards, which
has 52 cards including four different suits, red and black colors,
and 13 different ranks of each suit. So, each card is unique in
rank and suit. As such the probability of a particular card, such
as 10 of Diamonds, is P(10 of Diamonds) = 1/52. The
probability of a red card is P(red) = 26/52 = 1/2 = 50%. And the
probability of a face is P(face) = (3 faces x 4 suits)/52 = 12/52.
To be sure, the mathematics of probabilities can get quite
complex, including conditional and Bayesian probabilities,
various types of density and distribution functions, discrete and
continuous density functions, random variables, and many other
concepts. However, all of the complexity encountered is in the
service of counting or quantifying the number of events of

Origins of Creation
interest and the number of total possible outcomes. But these
complicated counting techniques for complicated processes do
not alter the basic nature of probability as a simple ratio
defined above.
Two of the most common and useful counting techniques
include combinations and permutations. A combination of N
objects is the number of ways the N objects can be combined
regardless of the order of the objects. For example, given three
object A, B, and C, the combination ABC and CAB are
considered to be the same combination.
For the analysis of probabilities governing DNA mutations,
we need permutations, which is defined as N objects selected
for P positions. A familiar example of permutation is found in
combination locks. Imagine a three-dial padlock with 10 digits
on each dial. For each of the 10 digits on the first dial, there are
10 digits on the second dial, and for each of the 10 digits on the
second dial, there are 10 digits on the third one. Thus, the
number of permutations possible is 10 x 10 x 10 = 1,000. In
general, the number of permutations of N objects arranged in P
positions is NP. In permutations, order is important, so ABC
and CAB are two different permutations.
Possibility of Random Evolution
As a probability model, permutation is perfectly suited for
the structure of DNA. Applied to DNA, N = the number of
nucleobase = 4 (i.e., A, C, G, and T), and P = number of
positions = 3 Billion, because each of four nucleobase are
arranged in three billion positions on the DNA molecule. Thus,
the number of possible permutations of the human DNA is
43,000,000,000 = 101,807,000,000 = 101.8B.
In the context of evolution based on random mutations, a
desired probability event is a DNA combination that results in a
useful trait of a living organism, a “useful trait” being any part
of the anatomy, physiology, or behavior of the organism that

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
enhances its chances of survival in its environment. For
example, thick white fur for the polar bear are traits that
enhance its chances of survival in its polar environment by
providing warmth and camouflage. Similarly, large ears serve
the African elephant by providing cooling in the hot desert
climate.
But
these
traits
are
generated
by
particular
combinations of the nucleobases forming the genes of these
animals. A variation in the genes of the African elephant may
result in ears like a cat instead of an elephant, ears growing out
of its rump, or worse yet, no ears at all. The point is that very
few combinations of nucleobases may result in a trait optimized
for survival in a particular environment.
Generally, in any system, and particularly complex systems,
there is a very small subset of the combinations of its
components that would create a functional system. This is a
rather obvious point when considering a concrete example, such
as a computer, an electronic circuit board, or an industrial
machine. For example, even in a relatively simple system such as
a bicycle, the components, such as the handlebar, wheels, chain,
pedal, seat, etc. must be assembled in a particular configuration
for the bicycle to function. Maybe the left and right pedals
could be interchanged, or the handlebar can be assembled
backwards, constituting various functional configurations, but
the wheel and the seat cannot be interchanged to create a
working configuration.
A living organism is many orders of magnitude more complex
than any human-made “complex” system. Compared with the
total number of permutations in the DNA molecule, 101.8B, the
number of permutations that may result in useful traits is
miniscule, as is the probability of it happening randomly.
Actually, the probability of a random mutation of a large DNA
molecule resulting in a useful change in an animal would be
close to mathematical zero. To show how this result works out,
let’s examine some numbers. Since the beginning of life on
earth, it is estimated that about two Billion animal species have
ever existed on earth (estimates range from 1 to 4 Billion), with

Origins of Creation
about 8.7 million existing on earth today. Let’s assume each
species on the average has one Billion characteristics or traits
created by the genetic code. Such characteristics include
anatomical features, physiological characteristics, behavioral
adaptations, instincts, cellular and organ processes, and any
other type of trait that is embodied in the animal. The
probability of any one of these features occurring randomly is:
P(one useful trait) = [number of all traits ever created] /
[total DNA permutations]
= [2 x 109 x 109 ] / 101.8B
= [ 2 x 1018] / 101.8B = 0
Equation 1.
Well, this probability is actually not zero, strictly and
mathematically speaking, but there isn’t enough paper in a
stationary store to write all the zeros after the decimal point:
0.0000...2. The number of zeros after decimal point is 1.8
Billion minus 18! that’s 1.8 Billion zeros before the 2. This
number, representing the probability, is zero in any context and
for any purpose. And just for fun, if there were one Billion
mutations per second for the last 4.5 billion years (approximate
age of earth), we would cover only about 1.4 x 1026
combinations out of the 101.8B possible DNA combinations,
which can be shown in a manner similar to equation (1) above, is
equivalent to a zero portion of the total combinations.
And the above is the probability of only a single useful trait,
randomly selected. This means that this probability is repeated
for every one of the 2 x 1018 traits. So, the probability of all of
these traits having resulted from a random process since the
beginning of life on earth is represented by the fraction [ 2 x
1018] / 101.8B multiplied by itself 2 x 1018 times! That makes the
denominator
unimaginably
large
and
the
probability
unimaginably small. Even a description of the size will be

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
difficult to manage, let alone showing the number itself. In
short, random evolution is an impossible proposition.
Microevolution
To get around the obviously impossible odds of random
mutation to create even a single trait of a single organism, let
alone the millions of traits of each of the two Billion species,
the mechanism of microevolution has been proposed. Simply
put, microevolution is identical to the process of evolution
described above, which is a description of macroevolution, but
it is limited to small mutations (small changes) within a species.
Over time, accumulated microevolutions may result in a
macroevolution differentiating a new species from an original
or existing species. So, microevolution and macroevolution are
the same process at different time (and change) scales.
The purported benefit of this theory to get around the non-
existent probability of random mutation is that a small
mutation is much more probable than a single big mutation.
Sure enough, this is a true statement, but its scope is limited to
a single microevolution, not a series of them that collectively
result in the same macro evolution. You cannot cheat
mathematics or get around it by intellectual parlor tricks.
Let’s look at the probabilities of microevolution more
closely. This examination will show that the probability of a big
change is the same as the collective probability of a cumulative
series of small changes that result in the same big change. With
reference to Figure 5 below, imagine a string of nine
nucleobases, each position on the string having a choice of the
four nucleobase A, C, G, and T. The number of combinations
possible for the whole string is thus NP = 49. So, the total
probability of a new combination obtained by random mutation
for the whole string is based on this number (as the probability
denominator). Now, let’s see how the probabilities change if
only a subset of the whole string is mutated. Consider three
subsets defined by positions 1-4, 5-6, and 7-9. The respective

Origins of Creation
probabilities for these three subsets are based on 44, 42, and 43,
as the total number of combinations possible for the respective
subsets. But, the total probability, namely, the probability that
particular events happen in the three subsets separately, but that
collectively yield a desirable trait is calculated as: 44 x 42 x 43 =
44+2+3 = 49, which is the same as the probability of the whole
string changing at once, as pointed out above.
Whether the subsets above are defined in time or space, that
is, whether they belong to the same DNA molecule (defined over
space) or belong to different DNA molecules, which are
combined over time (defined over time), the probabilities work
out the same.

Figure 5: Equivalence of Micro probabilities and overall
probability
Another point that merits attention is that even though, as
shown above, the probabilities of random mutation ending up
in any useful trait is zero, those probabilities were calculated
based on the full human DNA with 3 Billion nucleobases. The
DNA molecules of the earlier life forms were much smaller, so
the probabilities of generating useful traits by chance would
have been more realistic, relatively speaking. However,
probabilities still decrease exponentially as complexity rises.
How probabilities decrease as a function of complexity can be

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
better understood when described in more detail using
illustrative examples.
In a probabilistic system, starting with simple components,
simple subassemblies may be formed by chance that happen to
be useful. Simple components by nature have simple
requirements to combine with other simple components to form
subassemblies. We will call these level-1 subassemblies. For
example, consider children’s building blocks (like Lego blocks)
that can be assembled into various structures, vehicles, and the
like. Individual blocks can be combined randomly to build
simple subassemblies such as a right angle corner, a simple
staircase-like structure, a curved section, and the like. Next
level of combination will involve combining these level-1
subassemblies
into
level-2
subassemblies.
However,
the
requirements to do so will be more complex also because level-1
subassemblies can only be combined in more peculiar ways with
other level-1 subassemblies to produce a useful level-2
subassembly. For example, to form a circle as a level-2
subassembly, two or more curved sections must be connected
end to end to form the circle. If they are combined end to
middle, or the curvature is backwards, then a circle will not
result.
Hence, as we get more complex subassemblies from simpler
ones, the probability of randomly forming the next level also
decreases
exponentially.
This
exponential
decrease
of
probability is due to two factors: one, the increased number of
subassemblies at each level, creating a larger total number of
outcomes (i.e., increasing the probability ratio denominator),
and two, the particular ways and limited ways that complex
subassemblies can combine with each other to create useful
higher-level subassemblies, creating a smaller number of useful
combinations (i.e., decreasing the probability ratio numerator).
In effect, as the subassemblies become more numerous and
more complex, a wall of probability rises very quickly against
forming the next level of subassemblies by chance. For example,
the building blocks are very unlikely to form a complex

Origins of Creation
structure, such as a house with multiple rooms, windows, and
doors, by random combination from successively more complex
subassemblies. Thus, clearly this wall of probability will
preclude the random creation of complex systems, such as living
organisms, from simpler forms beyond the very elementary
stages. This is another aspect of the discussion we had above
with respect to Figure 5 regarding combined probabilities of
smaller subsets.
The above discussions covered the probabilistic aspect of the
high-to-low flow principle. It showed that in probabilistic
systems in which randomness plays a role, combinations having
low probability (complex systems with high content level)
cannot result from simpler components having high probability
(simple systems with low content level). It also means that the
high-level contents of a complex system must preexist within
the simple components or augment them from another external
source.
Alternative Models of Evolution
So, if the species did not come about by random mutation,
how did the two billion or so species, each with millions of
complex and optimized attributes, appear on earth during the
past few billion years? In light of the above principles, there are
at least two major possibilities. One, each mutation was
directed or guided by God in a transcendental manner, which
precludes direct and complete scientific observation because
one end of such interaction, namely God’s end, is in non-
observable realms. And two, the potential for each mutation
that results in useful traits is already built into the DNA
molecule and is only triggered by various events or stimuli,
which may be random (such as cosmic rays) or regular (such as
seasonal or climate changes) in nature. As a hypothetical
example, the potential of color change in the arctic fox that
allows a change of color in its coat to pure white in the winter
and to dark and light patches in the summer, may have been
built into the DNA of its ancestor prior to the development of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
the arctic species. At some point, the intense cold might have
triggered this built-in potential to change the DNA in a very
specific way in respond to such external stimuli.
Such design is similar to the design of a software system in
which various logical input conditions cause the program to
behave differently because the logic to respond to each type of
input is already designed and built into the program. In the
absence of a particular input type, the appropriate response to
it is hidden and is not externally visible. But once that input
type is applied, the corresponding program behavior is
triggered. As a specific example, consider the software behavior
on a modern smart phone, which is designed to respond to both
voice and text data. If all you receive are voice calls, then the
phone simply rings like old telephones to alert the user and
provide voice communications. But if it receives a text message,
then it displays the message and allows the user to enter text in
response. No voice communication is established. The point is
that both behaviors are built into the software of the phone,
but each one appears only when the appropriate input type is
applied. Similarly, if all useful animal attributes for each species
are already designed into the DNA of the species, then it only
takes an external trigger to genetically transform the animal to a
new species (or a different and better adapted version of the
existing species) revealing new attributes and behaviors. Even
though such attributes give the illusion of being completely new
and randomly occurring, actually, they might already have been
designed in.
Hence, whether God actively guides each mutation as it
happens or He has already built in the potential in the DNA
from the beginning, the mutation process cannot be purely
random. A point that merits mentioning here is that a process
may be random in some regards, yet purposeful in others. For
example, if one walks a mile from home to work, each step that
he takes is random as he does not purposefully select each exact
spot on the ground on which he sets foot in each step. Yet, his
destination is not random. If he repeats this exercise every day,

Origins of Creation
he always ends up at his work place, not some random
destination like the grocery store, or the park. Hence, in the
process of walking, we see that both elements of randomness
and purposefulness can coexist without being contradictory. So
it is with evolution. There may well be random elements in the
evolutionary process, such as various internal or external
events, climate change, etc., but the end-to-end process cannot
be random in its entirety.
An Alternative View of the Origins of Creation
We saw that the big bang was more of a description rather
than an explanation of creation. Even at that, it is probably just
a partial description of some aspects of the process of creation.
The pre-existence principle requires that something pre-exists
everything, including the universe itself. That something is in
another realm, the realm of pre-existence, which by implication
contains the universe and all its potentials. So, pre-existence
was there before the existence of the universe. But, part of the
big bang and inflation theory is that time itself came into
existence at the moment of the big bang and there was no
“before” prior to the big bang. So, how do we reconcile the
concept of “pre-existence,” which implies “before,” with the
concept of no time prior to the big bang in the realm of pre-
existence?
Order and Priority
To answer this question we need to examine the concept of
“priority.” Time may be represented by a sequence of ordered
values akin to integers: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, ... . The concepts of
“before” and “after” are meaningful in the context of this
sequence. For example, with respect to time = 4, times 1, 2, and
3 are “before” and times 5 and 6 are “after.” But, time is not the
only sequence imaginable. Many sequences are possible. Any
variable that represents a quantity and which can take on
ordered values defines a sequence. And in every ordered

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
sequence we have a “before” and an “after” with respect to each
value in the sequence. For example, if there are 10 trees in a row
numbered from 1 to 10, a sequence is defined, which is
independent of time. Traversing the trees from 1 to 10, the 6th
tree in the sequence is always “before” the 8th tree and “after”
the third one, regardless of time. Hence, in the realm of pre-
existence a sequence different from our familiar time may
define and dictate events. In this context, pre-existence came
before the universe in an abstract sequence, not in time.
Types of Causality
Closely related to the concept of sequence is the concept of
causality we reviewed in relation to Figure 1 above. The
causality with which we are familiar is defined by the material
world and operates in time: cause always precedes effect
chronologically. We will call this chronological causality. Next
we will introduce another type of causality: the Relational
Causality. The relational causality is defined by relationships,
not by the material world, and operates in an abstract sequence,
not in time. For example, a triangle “causes” the sum of its
internal angles to equal 180 degrees. In this example, we say that
the triangle “causes” the sum of its angles to be 180 degrees
because the existence of the triangle always comes first, not in
time, but in sequence. This means three angles the sum of which
add up to 180 degrees do not necessarily define a triangle. They
may be created by several intersecting lines in various
configurations, such as four intersecting lines which do not
create a closed loop as shown in Figure 6, below:

Figure 6: Illustration of Relational Causality

Origins of Creation
Thus, the triangle takes precedence and has priority, in a
relational sense, over its angles, but not vice versa. There is no
chronological distance, that is, no time passes between the
creation of a triangle and the emergence of its internal angles,
which add up to 180 degrees. It is literally instantaneous.
Mathematically, at the moment of the creation of the triangle,
the three internal angles are also formed and add up to 180
degrees. This is relational causality: no time is needed, but there
is still a cause-and-effect relationship.
An important property of relational causality is that the
relational cause is permanently needed to sustain the relational
effect. Thus, not only there is a causation relationship between
the relational cause and effect, there is also a sustaining
relationship between the two: the cause creates the effect and
then must sustain it during its existence. If the cause is
removed, the effect will automatically and instantaneously cease
to exist. For example, the moment a triangle is formed, it causes
the sum of its angles to be 180 degrees. And the moment the
triangle is taken apart, the sum of its angles ceases to be 180
degrees. Hence, not only the triangle creates the angle
configuration, but also it is needed to sustain it. This is in
contrast to chronological causality that once the effect is
created the cause can go away without affecting the effect. For
example, if a rock is thrown and causes a glass to break, the
rock can be removed and the glass remains broken. The rock is
not needed anymore to keep the glass broken.
Properly defined, relational causality is the inherence
relationship between two entities. Inherence is not a two-way
street. If A and B are inherent, that is, if they always appear
together, still one entity always has precedence. One entity is
always “first” in the sense of an abstract sequence, and the other
one is “next.” Inherence is shown in logical terms using a
propositional logic operation called implication or modus
ponens. The reason that inherence is one-way is found in the
properties of implication:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
If [A ⇒ B AND B ⇒ A], Then A = B;7
Equation 2.
The above is a well-known and easily proven result of logical
implication. This means if A and B both imply each other, that
is, if the inherence relationship between A and B was two-way,
then A and B would be identical, one, and the same. Therefore,
an inherence relationship between A and B, as different entities,
must be one-way with A taking precedence over B.
Realms of Existence
After this necessary excursion into the alternate concepts of
“before” and “after” in the context of non-time sequences, and
relational causality, we can now get back to the alternate view
of creation.
Based on the principle of pre-existence, a realm outside of
our physical universe must exist to provide the universe with its
pre-existing seed, the potential for all that is contained in the
universe including its matter, energy, laws of nature, etc. all
before the big bang happened.
Based on the principle of high to low flow, the contents, in
whatever form, must originate from a high level to a low level.
The question that naturally comes up is: where did the pre-
existing seed come from? And the causality saga continues
backwards towards the ultimate source, the First Cause. If we
are to finally break the causality chain, terminating it with the
First Cause, we must understand the requirements of being the
First Cause.
The first requirement of being the First Cause is that it
cannot have any boundaries, because a boundary necessitates a
supply on the other side, continuing the chain of causality. By
definition of a boundary, the only way a boundary can be
avoided is if the First Cause is infinite in every sense, which is
also a prime part of the attributes of what God is. This

Origins of Creation
requirement also precludes the multiplicity of god. If He has no
boundaries, then God never “ends” for another god to “begin.”
Another requirement is that the First Cause must contain, in
some form, all attributes, properties, and contents of
everything subordinate to it, because all of these entities must
originate from the First Cause. Therefore, being the ultimate
origin of mind and intellect (and everything else), the First
Cause cannot be a simple or mindless law, like the laws of
nature we observe. It cannot simply be some mindless property
that causes other forms of existence to come into being.
Because such mindless properties cannot contain the more
advanced attributes, as discussed above with respect to high to
low flow principle. In one of His prayers, the Bab bears ample
witness to this truth:
Whatever God hath willed hath been, and that which He
hath not willed shall not be. There is no power nor
strength except in God, the Most Exalted, the Most
Mighty. [BP 131]
And the third requirement is that the First Cause must be
homogeneous and elemental, that is, it cannot be composed of
any components or parts. Because as soon as it has parts, then it
is conceivable that the parts can be separated, decomposing the
First Cause. Moreover, having components introduce internal
limits that violate the first requirement above.
A few points are noteworthy here. Even though a
“requirement” smacks of “limitations,” the above three
requirements are anything but constraints or limitations on
God. To the contrary, they are His attributes, the descriptions
of His limitless and unconstrained nature: being infinite and
having no boundaries, containing everything conceivable in
some form, and not having any parts that create internal
boundaries and limitations, are all descriptions of His absolute
and utter independence and self-sufficiency. Another important
point is that these attributes (or “requirements”) set Him apart

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
from His creation, making him categorically different from the
other ordinary links in the causal chain. None of his creation at
any point has any of these attributes as described above. None
of these are true about the physical existence and none are true
about the realm of pre-existence. So, God must dwell in a realm
all His own, as confirmed in Bahá’í Writings: “God singly and
alone abideth in His own place which is holy above space and
time, mention and utterance, sign, description, and definition,
height and depth.” [TN 64]
Considering the above points collectively, a conception of
the First Cause emerges as an infinite, unchanging, inexhaustible
reservoir of existence and its attributes which flows downward
into the creation in whatever form it may assume. There may be
one or an infinite number of layers between the creation we see
as this physical universe and the First Cause, but ultimately the
chain must terminate to provide an explanation of the origins
of creation because infinite regression is not an explanation.
This conception of the First Cause or God, as we commonly
refer to Him, is consistent with a willful, purposeful,
omniscient, all powerful, all knowing, and intelligent being as
the creator, as opposed to a dumb, purposeless, and mindless set
of natural laws that just happens to be out there.
An analogy which may be illuminating about the nature of
the relationship between God and His creation is that of a
human being and his shadow. The shadow of a person seems to
have a separate existence from him, seems to have its own
attributes and behaviors, and more or less reflects the nature of
the person, while all the time the shadow is an emanation of that
person. It is not a part of that person, it has no true
independence from him, and is utterly dependent on the person.
If the person ceases to exist, so will the shadow. Similarly, the
creation and every creature in it, in some sense, may be a
shadow of God, reflecting His attributes, to the extent it can. A
mineral reflects such attributes at its own level, as does a plant,
an animal, and a human.

Origins of Creation
The Bahá’í Writings teach this verity in numerous tablets.
For example, Baha’u’llah expounds:
Say: Nature in its essence is the embodiment of My
Name, the Maker, the Creator. Its manifestations are
diversified by varying causes, and in this diversity there
are signs for men of discernment. Nature is God’s Will
and is its expression in and through the contingent
world. It is a dispensation of Providence ordained by the
Ordainer, the All-Wise. [TB 141]
And Abdul-Bahá states, in Some Answered Questions,
... all beings and all existences are the centers from which
the glory of God is reflected - that is to say, the signs of
the Divinity of God are apparent in the realities of
things and of creatures. ... Nothing is deprived of this
benefit. [SAQ 195]
An interesting implication of this view of the creation is that
it necessitates one of two models of the physical universe. One
is that once created, as a result of the big bang, the physical
universe will eventually die out in a cold death, where no energy
differential, thermal or otherwise, remains between any of the
material bodies in the universe and thus no interactions of any
kind can take place. This is a direct result of the principle of
high to low flow in general, and the second law of
thermodynamics, in particular. In this scenario, since creation is
inherent with the existence of God, another universe must pop
out from the realm of pre-existence. Potentially infinitely many
universes can pop out from the pre-existence. This is the same
result as what is professed in the multi-verse theory of creation,
which tries to explain the anthropic nature of this universe and
the suitability of its natural laws and constants for life, as
explained above. We have arrived at the same conclusion, but
for very different reasons. In a sense, existence is like a garden
of creation in which God continuously plants new universes

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
which grow to their perfection and then stay their course until
their end.
Another model is that there is only one infinite physical
universe, ours, which is somehow replenished with high levels of
energy and information by God, may be through more localized
big bangs coming out of the quantum fabric underlying the
structure of the physical universe. But science has not found
any evidence of such process or similar ones so far.
The Greatest Name
A calligraphic representation of the symbol known by Bahá’ís
as the “Greatest Name” is shown below in Figure 7. This sacred
Bahá’í symbol is related to a number of Tablets by the Bab and
Abdul-Bahá that describe its meanings and significance. Briefly,
of the three parallel horizontal lines, the lower one represents
humanity and the world of creation, the upper line represents
the realm of God, and the middle line represents the special
station of Manifestations of God or the realm of revelation.
The vertical line represents the Primal Will or Holy Spirit
proceeding from God through the Manifestations to humanity.
The position of Manifestation of God in this symbol is said to
be the linking point to God. The two stars or Haykals represent
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb, the twin Manifestations of God.8

Figure 7: The Greatest Name
There is a remarkable parallel between the symbolism
embedded in the Greatest Name symbol, described above, and

Origins of Creation
the dictates of logic discussed in this paper. The Greatest Name
symbolizes the inherently and permanently separate realms of
God, revelation, and creation by parallel lines that never
intersect. These are structurally similar and semantically
analogous to the realms of God, pre-existence, and physical
universe, respectively, discussed in this paper. Additionally, the
parallel lines indicate all three realms have always had this
relationship with each other and that there was no chronological
beginning to one or the other. The vertical line indicates the
connection between God and His creation via His Primal Will,
consistent with the principle of high to low flow. The similarity
between the Greatest Name symbol and the theories developed
here is not contrived as we did not start with the Greatest Name
symbol or any of its meanings and allusions. Yet, the structure
of existence that emerged based on a science-based rational
discourse turned out to have a striking similarity to the Greatest
Name. We take this as a very welcome confirmation, at least
regarding the major points, if not the details.
Conclusion
The question of the origin of creation is very simple. The
answer is not. The question simply poses the query “where did
all this creation, matter, energy, laws, time, space, natural
constants, life, etc., come from?” To attempt to answer this
question, in every age, man has depended on his level of
knowledge at the time to come up with different theories and
explanations. Of course, various religions have provided
different stories of creation, which were rooted in truth but
were tailored to the understanding of man during their
dispensations. As humanity gained knowledge and experience,
these explanations were cast aside one by one. In time, a tangled
web of detailed information, scientific and cultural, emerged.
This tangled web is like the proverbial trees that hide the forest.
Thus, what used to be common sense all of a sudden came under
question. An outstanding example of the trees hiding the forest,
is the theory of evolution that purports to fully explain how

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
fantastically complex and well-adapted living organisms,
billions of them over the ages, came to be through a completely
random and mindless process. What seems to be common sense
that complex systems cannot spontaneously arise from simpler
ones, was suddenly thrown out in favor of complicated
explanations that serve to hide the plain truth. Similarly,
elaborate theories confirming the big bang and inflation
theories also serve the purpose of pushing this question one step
back without resolving it.
Far from seeking to discredit or deride the past or present
theories and explanations, this paper acknowledges their
contributions and uses some of their ideas, but suggests that
they do not paint a complete picture and leave important
questions unanswered. The lack of comprehensive coverage of
these theories is in part due to the discovery of new facts and
ideas that create new questions or pose the old questions in a
new light.
Aided by modern scientific knowledge, such as the big bang
and evolution theories, and modern mathematical logic and
probability theory, this paper attempted to answer the
unanswered questions based on rational arguments that sort the
trees without losing the forest in the process. Some novel
approaches, viewpoints, and principles were developed, partially
based on similar existing concepts, including the pre-existence
principle, the differential principle, the high to low principle,
and relational causality. These principles are partly based on
science and partly based on rational arguments, and paint a
picture considerably different from those before them. This
picture includes the observable universe, preceded by or
contained in a pre-existent realm, all created by God Who is the
relational cause of His creation, its sustainer, and the provider
of all its attributes, which flow down from Him. At the same
time, the results and conclusions are remarkably consistent with
the Bahá’í conception of creation and the relationship between
God and His creation.

Origins of Creation

1 Anjam Khursheed, Science and Religion, p. 42, Oneworld Publications Ltd.,
London, Great Britain, 1987.
2 William S. Hatcher, Logic & Logos, Oxford, England, George Ronald
Publisher, 1990.
3 Brian R. Greene, The Elegant Universe, pp. 283-319, W. W. Norton
Company, New York, 1999.
4 ibid., pp. 81-83, 346-370.
5 ibid., pp. 355-356.
6 Arthur C. Guyton, Textbook of Medical Physiology, 8th Ed., pp. 24-28, W.
B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, U. S. A., 1991.
7 A ⇒ B is read “A implies B”
8 Faizi, Abu’l-Qasim (1968), Explanation of the Symbol of the Greatest
Name, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New Delhi. Online at http://bahai-
library.com/faizi_symbol_greatest_name

Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of
Society
Moojan Momen
Abstract: This paper looks at consultation in the Bahá’í Faith. It
starts from the mention of this process in the Kitab-i-Aqdas and
the manner in which this was initially put into practice in Iran in
the late 1870s. It then looks at the ways in which each of the
successive leaders of the Bahá’í Faith — Bahá’u’lláh, `Abdu’l-
Bahá and Shoghi Effendi emphasized the importance of
consultation and promoted its use in the community. Finally,
the paper looks at the role of consultation in the
transformation of society from the present established and
customary practices in the world towards the new World Order
that Bahá’u’lláh envisaged.
Consultation in Tribal Societies and in the Bible
The concept of consultation is a very important one
sociologically
since
it
signals
a
move
away
from
authoritarianism towards a situation where the leaders ask the
opinions of others before taking decisions. It seems to be
common in tribal societies that the elders consult when an
important decision is to be made, even if in many cases, it is the
leader who makes the final decision. It is possible to find this
type of consultation referred to in the Bible for example: “Then
King Rehoboam consulted the elders who had served his father
Solomon during his lifetime. ‘How would you advise me to
answer these people?’ he asked.” (1 Kings 12:6)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
There is also advice on consulting in the Book of Proverbs:
A wise man will hear and increase in learning, and a man
of understanding will acquire wise counsel. (Proverbs 1:5)
Prepare plans by consultation, and make war by wise
guidance. (Proverbs 20:18)
Without consultation, plans are frustrated, but with
many counselors they succeed. (Proverbs 15:22)
Consultation in Islam
The Arabic for consultation comes from the root shin-waw-
ra — root form shára means to extract honey from a hive, or
from a hollow or from other places where it has been placed by
wild bees. From this derived the meaning of extracting or
making known a matter (e.g. making known one’s thoughts
about a matter) and hence in the mutual forms of the verb, the
third and sixth forms, the meaning of mutually making known
one’s thoughts — and hence the meaning of consultation
emerges.
In Islam, there has been a general idea that consultation is a
good thing. This is based on the authority of the Qur’an where
Muhammad is commanded by God to consult with the people
whom he rules over in Mecca: “It is part of the Mercy of God
that thou dost deal gently with them. Wert thou severe or harsh-
hearted, they would have broken away from about thee: so pass
over (their faults), and ask for (God’s) forgiveness for them; and
consult them in affairs (of moment). Then, when thou hast
Taken a decision put thy trust in God. For God loves those who
put their trust (in Him)” (Qur’an 3:159). Those who order their
affairs by mutual consultation are commended
(42:38).
Consultation is also exhorted upon the Muslims in the family;
for example, the parents are urged to consult abut weaning a
baby (2:233).

Bahá’í Consultation
However, these injunctions are vague as to the details of who
should be consulted and about what. There is a little more
specificity in the Traditions. For example: “`Ali asked, ‘O
Prophet! If we have a matter in which we do not find a
command or prohibition then what is your advice?’ He said,
‘Consult the righteous wise people and do not depend upon
individual opinion.’”
In the strongly patriarchal and hierarchical society of early
Islam, the role of consultation was more or less immediately
relegated to the process of choosing a leader, but once the
leader was chosen, there seems to have been little idea that he
should use consultation in his rule over the people. The first
caliph, Abú Bakr, was chosen by a general consultation of those
Muslims at the portico of the Banú Sa`d immediately after the
death of the prophet. However, important elements of Islamic
society were missing from that consultation, in particular `Alí
and the family of the Prophet. The second caliph was appointed
by the first caliph. The third caliph was appointed by a
consultative assembly of six people chosen by the second caliph.
The fourth caliph, `Alí, was chosen by general acclamation of
the people of Medina and many elements of the Muslim
community were not consulted. After this, Mu`áwiyah seized
the caliphate and the succession to the caliphate became either
hereditary or seized by force down to 1924 when it was
abolished. While the classical Sunni jurists continued to
recommend consultation (shúrah) in the process of electing a
caliph, they do not appear to have thought that it played a role
in the administration of an Islamic state. Thus, in Sunni Islam,
the principle of consultation, while talked about in principle,
was largely ignored in practice until modern times which we will
consider shortly. Since the consultations that were held to
decide the first and third caliph resulted in decisions against
`Alí, consultation has never been held in high regard among Shi`i
Muslims.
Many Islamic tribal societies have ruled their affairs by
calling consultative councils of elders but it is not clear whether

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
this practice arose out of Islam or was part of the tribe’s
customary practice even before the conversion to Islam. In
modern times, Islamic reformers have argued that the Quranic
injunction to consult is the equivalent of modern democracy.
And so decisions arrived at through parliamentary processes can
be considered to be in accordance with the Qur’an.
Conservative scholars reject this idea and say that shúrah was
only intend as a means for giving advice to the ruler and not for
making decisions. Even then it is not obligatory for the ruler to
pay attention to the advice given. Moreover, there is no place
for non-Muslims in the shúrah process.
Modern Democracy
Interestingly, the processes that led to modern democracy do
not seem to have been much influenced by any of the calls to
consult described above in Judaism, Christianity and Islam.
There are two main forms of democracy, direct and
representative. Direct democracy stems from ancient Greece
and involves convocations of all of the citizenry (which
excluded women, slaves, foreigners, non-landowners, and males
under 20 years old) who voted on important matters. The main
surviving examples of this form of democracy in the modern
world is the town meetings in small towns in New England in
the United States and in the smaller Swiss municipalities. For
obvious reasons, this form of democracy cannot be scaled up
for communities of much more than 6-10,000. However, some
people have considered that binding referenda are a comparable
phenomenon, although limited in that they are typically only
organized for major decisions and thus only occur rarely.
Representative democracy, although commonly stated to
have originated in Rome, stems more from the struggles in the
Middle Ages by the barons to limit the power of the king, which
led in England to the Magna Carta in 1215, in which the king’s
absolute authority was constrained by the concept of due
process and there were provisions that taxation could not be

Bahá’í Consultation
imposed without “common counsel of our realm” (Clauses 12
and 14) — thus establishing a need for a parliament which was
first called in 1265. After the English Civil War and the
Glorious Revolution of 1688, the English Bill of Rights of 1689
was enacted, and this together with the Reform Act of 1832
established Parliamentary representative democracy as it is
known in England. The vote was finally given to women in
1928. Thus at first the barons and aristocrats obtained a say in
the running of the country, then propertied males, then all
males, then women. The same general process can be described
in other countries — none of which had any involvement of the
religious principles of consultation.
History of Bahá’í consultation — Bahá’u’lláh
The history of consultation in the Bahá’í Faith starts with the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas in which there is a verse establishing Houses of
Justice in every locality and instructing that the members should
take counsel together:
The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of
Justice be established wherein shall gather counsellors to
the number of Bahá, and should it exceed this number it
doth not matter. They should consider themselves as
entering the Court of the presence of God, the Exalted,
the Most High, and as beholding Him Who is the
Unseen. It behoveth them to be the trusted ones of the
Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the
guardians appointed of God for all that dwell on earth.
It is incumbent upon them to take counsel together and
to have regard for the interests of the servants of God,
for His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and
to choose that which is meet and seemly. Thus hath the
Lord your God commanded you. Beware lest ye put away
that which is clearly revealed in His Tablet. Fear God, O
ye that perceive. (KA v. 30)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
But in Questions and Answers there is also advice on how
consultation could take place in other circumstances (and the
Universal House of Justice has confirmed that this approach
may be used for example in resolving personal problems):
99. QUESTION: Concerning consultation.
ANSWER: If consultation among the first group of
people assembled endeth in disagreement, new people
should be added, after which persons to the number of
the Greatest Name, or fewer or more, shall be chosen by
lot. Whereupon the consultation shall be renewed, and
the outcome, whatever it is, shall be obeyed. If,
however, there is still disagreement, the same procedure
should be repeated once more, and the decision of the
majority shall prevail. He, verily, guideth whomsoever
He pleaseth to the right way. (KA 13)
Towards the end of his life, Bahá’u’lláh became more and
more insistent on the importance of consultation. For example
in the Law˙-i-Maqßúd, he states:
The Great Being saith: The heaven of divine wisdom is
illumined with the two luminaries of consultation and
compassion. Take ye counsel together in all matters,
inasmuch as consultation is the lamp of guidance which
leadeth the way, and is the bestower of understanding.
(TB 168)
There are many other quotations from Bahá’u’lláh about
consultation, stating that “in all things, it is necessary to
consult,” (CC1 93) and that “No welfare and no well-being can be
attained except through consultation.” (CC1 93)
There are also examples from history that demonstrate the
importance that Bahá’u’lláh attached to consultation:
1. When the Kitab-i-Aqdas first came to Iran, the Bahá’ís
there started to try to implement its provisions. Mírzá

Bahá’í Consultation
Asadu’lláh Ißfahání who was then in Tehran tried to implement
some of the administrative instructions in the book. With
regard to verse 30, he had no guidance beyond what was in the
text and so he applied his own cultural norms to this. He called
together, in 1294/1877, some of the prominent Bahá’ís and
called this gathering the Assembly of Consultation (majlis-i
shawr) and the house in which they met the House of Justice.
The cultural norms of that society and that time (and indeed of
the whole world at that time) was that it was only the elite
whose opinions were worth hearing and who should therefore be
invited to the consultation.
This group consulted about the affairs of the community, in
secret. The minutes of their meetings exist and show that it was
decided in 1880 to send three of their number on journeys
though Iran to spread the practices of dawn prayers, assemblies
of consultation and communal funds. Ibn-i Aßdaq and Mírzá
Asadu’lláh Ißfahání travelled to Mázandarán and Khurásán,
with the latter going on to Yazd and Ißfahán, while Óájí Mírzá
Óaydar `Alí Ißfahání went to Hamadán.1 When Ibn-i Aßdaq
informed Bahá’u’lláh of the above-mentioned decision of the
assembly of consultation that he and Mírzá Asadu’lláh should
proceed to Khurásán, Bahá’u’lláh replied that although he had
previously indicated his wish that Ibn-i Aßdaq should remain in
the Tehran area, since the decision to go to Khurásán had been
arrived at through consultation, He accepted (maqbúl) the
decision.2
2. When Ibn-i Abhar was forced to leave his hometown of
Abhar, he travelled to `Akká. While there he asked Bahá’u’lláh
where he should take up his residence. Although Bahá’u’lláh was
perhaps better informed about the conditions of the various
Bahá’í communities in Iran and elsewhere and could easily have
given instructions, he replied that Ibn-i Abhar should return to
Iran and consult with the Bahá’ís there about this matter.3
So these appear to be examples of the importance that
Bahá’u’lláh attached to the process of consultation and the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
manner in which He indicated its importance by subordinating
His own guidance to that arrived at by consultation.
`Abdu’l-Bahá
`Abdu’l-Bahá wrote a great deal about consultation. He
stated that “consultation is one of the most fundamental
elements of the divine edifice” (CC1 97) and laid out the spiritual
prerequisites for those taking part (CC1 99), emphasising that it
should be used for both personal matters (“Without prior
consultation, take no important step in your own personal
affairs” [CC1 98]), that individuals should consult the Bahá’ís
administrative institutions (CC1 94) and that the Bahá’í
administrative institutions should themselves conduct their
affairs and make their decisions through consultation. (CC1 95)
From the early days of his ministry, `Abdu’l-Bahá established
the Tehran Assembly (in 1897) through instructing the four
Hands of the Cause to select a number of other individuals and
form this assembly. He sent individuals such as Ibn-i Abhar
around Iran with instructions to set up assemblies of
consultation wherever there were Bahá’í communities of a
sufficient size. At first in Iran these were appointed bodies but
gradually, starting in America, these became elected bodies.
When `Abdu’l-Bahá was in Chicago and had just laid the
foundation stone of the House of Worship there and the
convention of the Bahá’í Temple Unity was still in session, he
declined to speak about the House of Worship. Later he said
that if he had spoken, he would have said that the building of
the House of Worship should take place immediately, but it
should be a matter for the consultative assembly.4
Shoghi Effendi
Shoghi Effendi was greatly concerned during his ministry
with building up the Bahá’í administration and with issuing
guidance regarding Bahá’í consultation. As part of this, he

Bahá’í Consultation
frequently emphasised the importance of the process of
consultation for arriving at decisions in the administrative
order and also the importance of Bahá’ís obeying such
decisions. In only his second letter to the North American
Bahá’ís, Shoghi Effendi related the story that when Shaykh
Faraju’lláh al-Kurdí had submitted his Arabic translation of the
Ishráqát to `Abdu’l-Bahá, the latter, although he was perhaps the
best person to judge the quality of the translation, nevertheless
instructed the Shaykh to submit his translation to the Spiritual
Assembly of Cairo for their approval before publication:
So great is the importance and so supreme is the
authority of these assemblies that once `Abdu’l-Bahá
after having himself and in his own handwriting
corrected the translation made into Arabic of the
Ishráqát (the Effulgences) by Sheikh Faraj, a Kurdish
friend from Cairo, directed him in a Tablet to submit
the above-named translation to the Spiritual Assembly
of Cairo, that he may seek from them before publication
their approval and consent. These are His very words in
that Tablet:- “His honor, Sheikh Faraju’lláh, has here
rendered into Arabic with greatest care the Ishráqát and
yet I have told him that he must submit his version to
the Spiritual Assembly of Egypt, and I have conditioned
its publication upon the approval of the above-named
Assembly. This is so that things may be arranged in an
orderly manner, for should it not be so any one may
translate a certain Tablet and print and circulate it on his
own account. Even a non-believer might undertake such
work, and thus cause confusion and disorder. If it be
conditioned, however, upon the approval of the
Spiritual Assembly, a translation prepared, printed and
circulated by a non-believer will have no recognition
whatever.” (BA 23)
And Shoghi Effendi himself set an example to all Bahá’ís of
the need to submit to the results of the consultation of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
assemblies of the administrative order. When he had completed his
translation of the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, he sent it to the United States
NSA for publication together with a letter from his secretary
saying:
As Shoghi Effendi has been emphasizing the need of
submitting all publications to the Reviewing Committee,
he wants to be the first to abide by that rule, though he
hopes that they will not make unnecessary delay.5
So what has been presented so far in this article are examples
of all three of the central figures in the Bahá’í Faith emphasising
the importance of consultation in their writings and underlining
its importance and setting an example for all Bahá’ís by being
willing to subordinate their own guidance and decisions and
work to the decisions arrived at through consultation by Bahá’ís
and Bahá’í institutions.
Theoretical considerations — the Bahá’í transformation of
society
In the survey above, examples were given of the use of
consultation in religions historically. But as mentioned there,
these examples relate to religion giving approval to the practice
by leaders of consulting with the elders and the elite, before
making a decision. It is really only through secular democratic
processes that the power to choose their own leaders has been
extended to all adults. Even so, by their hegemonic control of
the media and education and the ability that this gives them to
shape the norms of society, it is still white wealthy males who
occupy most of the higher positions in Western societies and
are thus the ones making the decisions for everyone else.
What we appear to see in the Bahá’í Faith is an attempt to
end the present hierarchical structures of society — where power
is constructed in a pyramid and only a few at the top of the
pyramid hold power — and create a more egalitarian society —
where every individual is encouraged to form and express

Bahá’í Consultation
opinions in a consultative process that can then play a
meaningful role in the decision-making process.
In doing this, the Bahá’í system can be seen as a fusion of the
traditional religious concept of consultation with the secular
concepts of both direct and representative democracy. The
overall result is, ideally, the involvement of all adult Bahá’ís
(and to an extent youth6) in the process of decision making both
directly in the matter of local affairs and also through
representatives in the national and global Bahá’í administrative
order. It is easiest to discuss these three elements in the order in
which they became applied historically in the Bahá’í community:
1. Representative democracy. Bahá’ís directly elect a local
spiritual assembly in every locality where there is a sufficiently
large community to do so. They indirectly (through elected
representative at a national convention) elect a national
spiritual assembly, which in turn directly elects the Universal
House of Justice. This is a system of representative democracy
— although it differs somewhat in that the elected members of
the institutions are not answerable to their electors. These
Bahá’í elected institutions make their decisions through
consultation and `Abdu’l-Bahá states that “It is incumbent upon
every one not to take any step without consulting the Spiritual
Assembly, and they must assuredly obey with heart and soul its
bidding and be submissive unto it...” (CC1 94)
The institutions elected through this process have ultimate
authority over a Bahá’í community. But at the same time, are
exhorted to consult with the Bahá’ís under their jurisdiction so
that the right balance between this authority and the rights of
the individual can be maintained:
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause of
God is not dictatorial authority but humble fellowship,
not arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank and loving
consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of a true Bahá’í
can hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
justice, of freedom and submission, of the sanctity of
the right of the individual and of self-surrender, of
vigilance, discretion and prudence on the one hand, and
fellowship, candour, and courage on the other. (BA 63)
2. Consultation. Both Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote
about the importance of consultation and Shoghi Effendi
provided the structure and the principles by which Bahá’í
consultation should occur. The important point about Bahá’í
consultation is that it is not a consultation of the elite. When
there is consultation at the Nineteen-Day Feast, for example, all
of those present may participate and if a vote is taken on a
resolution to send to the local spiritual assembly, then all voting
members vote. The chairman has no casting vote and does not
dictate the agenda, but is responsible for ensuring that the
consultation is not dominated by aggressive or dominating
individuals and that even those who may be reticent are
encouraged to speak.
In the Bahá’í authoritative texts, it is emphasized that Bahá’í
method of consultation is a skill to be learned. (CC2 96) In the
last decade, Bahá’ís have been going through a sequence of
courses. Part of the training imparted in these courses is to
enable people to think about issues and to express their
thoughts in consultation with others. This training is very
important for the large numbers of people in any community
who have been relegated to the lowest level in the power
pyramid, sometimes because of their lack of education or
intellectual capacity, but also often because of their gender,
race, religion or class. Such individuals have experienced all
their lives the fact that their opinions do not matter, have been
told what to think about issues by the newspapers and television
and have learned to remain silent when those higher up the
pyramid have been present. They need to be trained to think for
themselves about issues (and not just to repeat what they have
been told to think) and to have the confidence to express those
thoughts in the consultation setting.

Bahá’í Consultation
3. Direct Democracy. The most recent element in the present
complex of Bahá’í decision making is the local Reflection
Meeting. Here all those interested meet to consider the needs of
the locality and to consult about both what has happened in the
previous period (and what lessons may be drawn from this) and
also to draw up a plan of action for the forthcoming period.
The focus of the consultation is to promote the welfare and
prosperity of the local area. At a minimum this involves
organising children’s classes, junior youth empowerment
programmes and devotional meetings as well as the sequence of
training courses mentioned above. But as the community
develops, then other needs of the community can be addressed
and plans for action drawn up.
All present at Reflection Meetings may engage in the
consultation and thus be part of the decision-making process
regarding the plans of action. This may include individuals who
are not Bahá’ís but are interested to carry forward this
programme of action; this group of people are called the
“community of interest”. This is an important development
since not only are the voiceless gender, racial, and class elements
in society being given a voice but also, probably for the first
time in religious history, the boundary between believer and
non-believer is also being broken down. This development
means a change towards a situation where everyone in a locality
really can be “one spirit, one soul, leaves of one tree, flowers of
one garden, waves of one ocean” (PUP 23). In addition, a number
of groups of people who may feel excluded from the Bahá’í
community because they do not feel able to keep the laws of
Bahá’u’lláh in particular areas, or they want to remain as
members of their existing religious community because of
family pressures or they cannot accept certain of the Bahá’í
teachings, can nevertheless participate in the Reflection
Meetings and the programme of action. Also included in the
consultations at the Reflection Meetings may be members of
the elected Bahá’í institutions, the local spiritual assembly, and
the members of the appointed arm of the administration

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
(Auxiliary Board members and their assistants), whose
responsibilities focus on the encouragement and guidance of the
community. These participants are able to feed in the learning
from other localities as well as providing guidance on the best
way forward.
The Reflection Meetings and the sequence of courses that is
designed to enable people to consult and thus to participate in
the Reflection Meetings appear adequately to take care of the
problems associated with delivering simultaneously what James
Fiskin regards as the three desirable but usually incompatible
characteristics of a system of direct democracy — the
Democratic Reform Trilemma:7
Participation — universal participation in the decision-
making process by the people affected. This is achieved in
the Bahá’í mechanism by motivating and giving people the
skills in the sequence of courses to become involved in
community action and giving them the confidence and skills
to participate in the consultative process.
Deliberation — thoughtful and rational discussion where all
major points of view are weighted according to evidence.
This is achieved by training all members of the community in
the sequence of course to engage meaningfully in the
consultation process. The Bahá’í consultation process itself
involves gathering the facts, then applying the relevant
spiritual and moral principles to the subject under discussion
and lastly formulating a plan.
Equality — all members of the population on whose behalf
decisions are taken have an equal chance of having their
views taken into account. This is again achieved through the
consultation process where all are encouraged to put
forward their opinions and these are then discussed without
reference to the personalities of those who put forward the
proposal. The sequence of courses is designed to empower
the disempowered and enable them to take part in the
process on an equal footing with others.

Bahá’í Consultation
In a letter of 1 October 1969, the Universal House of Justice
wrote that: “Authority and direction flow from the Assemblies,
whereas the power to accomplish the tasks resides primarily in
the entire body of the believers” (MUHJ68-73 30). As a result of
the developments of the last two decades in the Bahá’í world,
we seem to be moving to a situation where the ultimate
authority to set the framework of action of the Bahá’í
community rests with the administrative institutions established
through a system of representative democracy. But the
immediate plans of action and day-to-day activities of the
Bahá’í community and its wider community of interest proceed
in accordance with a system of direct democracy at the
Reflection Meeting. Thus the power to create the programmes
of action that will carry forward these processes resides with the
individual Bahá’ís who attend the Reflection Meeting and carry
out the plans decided there. And both the decision making by
the institutions of the representative democracy and the
decision making in the Reflection Meetings is done through a
consultative process, as is the interaction between the elected
institutions and the community of Bahá’ís. Consultation is thus
the oil that keeps the whole machine running and thus the
quality of consultation is an important element in the success of
the system.
The Bahá’í world is still at a very early stage in the
development of this system of combined representative and
direct democracy. The exact nature of the relationship between
the Bahá’í institutions and the direct democracy of the
Reflection Meetings has not yet been fully worked out.
Questions such as: what happens when a Reflection Meeting
takes a decision that the local assembly disapproves of? What
will happen if the community of interest attending Reflection
Meetings outnumber the Bahá’ís and start to take decisions that
are against Bahá’í principles, such as taking off in a party
political direction? Regarding such matters, the Universal House
of Justice envisages the consultations that go on at the
Reflection Meetings as a fluid, open, inclusive system where

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
experimentation and flexibility are encouraged as part of an
ongoing learning process involving all individuals, communities,
and institutions:
It should be remembered that the aim of such
consultations, beyond addressing certain practical
considerations, is to maintain a high level of enthusiasm
and to create a spirit of service and fellowship among
those present. Discussions should not become bogged
down by undue concern for procedural issues, but
should focus on what can be achieved and on the joy of
witnessing the fruits of hard work and diligent effort.8
The Bahá’í programme would thus appear to be a very radical
attempt to restructure society away from its present hierarchal,
patriarchal, hegemonic form into a new form that is more
egalitarian, allowing many who are currently powerless and
cowed into silence to be empowered. In a way, this parallels a
movement in the wider society that is also tending to bring
down the hierarchical structures in society by bypassing them
through social networking and electronic communications. This
movement can be seen in the Arab Spring, the anti-globalization
movement, and the spontaneous unorganized street revolts that
are occurring in many countries where the people are protesting
the actions of their government.
Neither the Bahá’í process or the street movements can be
categorised in the old political framework of Left and Right
Wing politics. They contain elements of both Left (in their
move towards a more egalitarian society) and Right (in their
desire to decentralize and empower the individual). The nearest
analogy that can be drawn is in an example from the Internet.
The old internet, the so-called Web 1.0, consisted of webpages
where the flow of information was one-way — from the owner
of the web-page to the viewer. This corresponds to the present
political system with its hierarchy where orders come down to
the masses, who have little control over what happens to them,
partly as a result of the manipulation and control of

Bahá’í Consultation
information by the hierarchy. Web 2.0 refers to pages where the
content is created by the viewers — such sites as Wikipedia,
blogs, Facebook, etc. With Web 2.0, the owner of the web-
pages is only responsible for setting the subject and controlling
excesses. This corresponds to the mechanism that Bahá’ís are
creating, where everyone is encouraged to participate in
community action and in the consultative decision-making
process, while the authority for setting the agenda and
controlling excesses rests with the local assembly.
Lastly, the question arises as to whether we can see all of this
foreshadowed in the writings of the founder of the Bahá’í Faith.
Bahá’u’lláh wrote in the framework of a highly hierarchical,
traditional society, for which the norms were completely
different to those operating today. Furthermore, he needed to
be diplomatic in what he wrote so that his words would not
become a source of problems for the Bahá’í community by
appearing to align them with elements in Iran who were
advocating radical measures of reform and causing alarm to the
government. However, one possible meaning of the following
quotation could refer to the present developments in the Bahá’í
Faith. This passage is from the Law˙-i-Itti˙ád, which has not yet
been officially translated. In this tablet, Bahá’u’lláh describes
six types of unity. A provisional translation of the first unity is:
Thou hast asked about unity (itti˙ád). The first kind of
unity is unity in religion. This unity has always been the
cause of the victory of the Faith of God in every age and
century. Togetherness is the mystic sword of God.
For example, should a government see that most of the
people of the country have rent asunder the veils and are
turning towards the horizon of Divine revelation, it
should remain silent and should listen to what is said.
Each person who is attentive attains to the knowledge of
God, except those who are utterly distant from the
Mercy of God.9

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
When I first translated this tablet more than a decade ago,
the way I had translated this passage was rejected by a number
of Persian speakers. The issue was around the interpretation to
be given to the words rendered above as “it [the government]
should remain silent and listen to what is said (sákit shavad va
ánchih guftih shavad bishnavad)”. They thought (and I later
discovered that Mr Adib Taherzadeh when discussing this tablet
summarizes this tablet in this way also) that this sentence should
be read as though “what is said” means “what is said by the
Divine Revelation” — that is to say that if the majority of a
nation became Bahá’ís, then the government should be silent
and pay heed to the words of the Bahá’í revelation. Or in the
paraphrase of Mr Taherzadeh: “when the majority of the people
in a country embrace His Cause, then the government will be
able to put into practice His teachings and commandments.”10
Given the recent developments in the Bahá’í Faith described
above, I now think that my original translation may well have
been correct and that “what is said” refers to “what is said by
the people”. In other words that once the people were following
the path laid down by God, the government should allow the
people to take control of their own affairs and should listen to
what they say; in other words that they would be able to steer
their own path and would need little control and direction from
the centre.11 If this second reading is correct, it points to the
path that Shoghi Effendi indicated when he laid down the
principle that the Bahá’í community should, as far as possible
operate in a decentralised manner.12 This is also the path that the
Universal House of Justice has taken as it has gradually
devolved responsibility for the creation and execution of
expansion plans from the international level to the national
level and increasingly to the local level, as the communities have
matured and gained experience. It also points to the evolution
of the Reflection Meeting where once the people in an area have
had the necessary training through the sequence of courses and
have understood the Bahá’í system of consultation, they can be

Bahá’í Consultation
allowed to plan and execute programmes of action. In the words
of the Universal House of Justice:
Specifically, a space has been created, in the agency of
the reflection meeting, for those engaged in activities at
the cluster level to assemble from time to time in order
to reach consensus on the current status of their
situation, in light of experience and guidance from the
institutions, and to determine their immediate steps
forward.13

NOTES
1 Asadu’lláh Ißfahání, Yád-dásht-há (Photocopy of mss. Completed c.
1300/1882), p. 7; Rú˙u’lláh Mihrábkhání, “Ma˙áfil-i Shawr dar `Ahd-i
Jamál-i Aqdas-i Abhá,” Payám-i Bahá’í no. 28 (Feb. 1982) 9-11; no. 29
(March 1982) 8-9. Strangely, Óájí Mírzá Óaydar `Alí Ißfahání, although he
describes this journey in his narrative, does not mention encouraging the
Bahá’ís to set up these practices. It may be that this matter had less
importance for Óájí Mírzá Óaydar `Alí than it did for Mírzá Asadu’lláh
Ißfahání. See Bihjat us-Íudúr (Hofheim: Bahá’í-Verlag, 2002), pp. 160-61).
2 Vahid Rafati, Payk-i Rástán (Darmstadt: `Aßr-i Jadíd, 2005), p. 77.
3 `Abdu’l-`Alí `Alá’í, Mu’assasih-yi Ayádí-yi Amru’lláh (Tehran: Mu’assasih
Ma†bú`át Millí Amrí, 130 B.E./1973), pp. 425-6.
4 Ma˙múd Zarqání, Badáyi` al-Áthár vol. 1 (2 vols., reprint, Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag,1982), p. 67; trans. by Mohi Sobhani as
Ma˙múd’s Diary (Oxford: George Ronald, 1998), p. 76.
5 Bahá’í News, No. 46, November 1930, p. 2.
6 Youth can take part in the local Reflection meetings. The present definition
of adult Bahá’ís as being those over 21 years of age was imposed by Shoghi
Effendi in the 1920s for the sake of uniformity throughout the Bahá’í
world because assembly incorporation would have been impossible if
people under the age of 21, who in most countries at that time were
regarded as minors, had been elected onto local assemblies. It seems likely
that in due course, the age for being eligible to vote and be voted for will
go down, perhaps in stages, to the age that Bahá’u’lláh has declared to be
the age of maturity — fifteen (Kitab-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers,
question no 20). There is some question as to exactly what is meant by
fifteen in this text. Since the Persian reckoning of the age of fifteen is

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

when someone enters the fifteenth year, which in most Western customary
ways of reckoning age is the age of fourteen.
7 James S. Fishkin, When the People Speak: Deliberative Democracy and
Public Consultation (New York: Oxford University Press, 2009), chap. 2;
and James Fiskin, “Deliberative Democracy and Constitutions”, in Ellen
Frankel Paul, Fred D. Miller Jr, and Jeffrey Paul (eds), What Should
Constitutions Do? (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2011), pp.
248-260.
8 The Universal House of Justice quoted in International Teaching Centre,
Building Momentum, section 3.3
9 Ad`iyyih-yi Óa∂rat-i Ma˙búb (reprint Germany 1980), pp. 388-389.
10 Adib Taherzadeh, Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 4 (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1987), p. 191.
11 When this paper was presented at the `Irfan Colloquium in Acuto in June
2013, Mr Ali Nakhjavani communicated to me his personal understanding
of this passage. He believes that it refers to the situation when the Bahá’í
Faith is a state religion and the majority of the people are Bahá’ís. At that
time, Bahá’u’lláh is stating, in a diplomatic manner, that the government,
which may not at this stage be composed of Bahá’ís, should listen to what
the people are saying.
12 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in Lights of Guidance, no. 568, p. 172. See also
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 41-2.
13 Universal House of Justice, message addressed to the Bahá’ís of the World,
Ri∂ván 2010.

The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call
(mast-and bulbulán)1
Julio Savi
Nightingales Are Inebriated2
He is the Glorious
Nightingales are inebriated by the melody of His enrapturing
Call,3 [8.1]
And spirit lovers by one draught of His enrapturing Call.
In a fit of ecstasy, souls conjoin with the Adored One,
As soon as they hear a cry of His enrapturing Call.
Spirit lovers fly away to the remote Tree of Love,
If they are assisted by the melody of His enrapturing Call.
The world of Being is intoxicated as a lover by beauty,
If the Cup-bearer hands round the wine of His enrapturing
Call.
The Moses of Spirit faints on the Mystic Mount, [8.5]
If the Sinai is lit with the spark of His enrapturing Call.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Sinai of the heart shines and the soul dances,
If the earth echoes with a warbling of His enrapturing Call.
Any shade of strangeness disappears from the pages of the
world,
If a breeze wafts from the locks of His enrapturing Call.
As He arises, you see the lovers resurrected, and hear
Sarafiel’s trumpet from the blow of His enrapturing Call.
Spirit lovers fly towards the Heavenly Throne, and beyond it,
When they are drawn to love in their ecstasy of His
enrapturing Call.
Lovers eagerly forfeit their lives, if in the world [8.10]
The splendour is unveiled of His enrapturing Call.
The breeze of eternity wafts in this Day from the mortal
kingdom,
‘Cause a fragrant scent breathes from the musk of His
enrapturing Call.
The Maids in the glorious chambers go into raptures,
If they hear the melody of His enrapturing Call.
New designs are drawn in the world of water and clay,
If from the East the features arise of His enrapturing Call.
The earthly world and the holy and glorious bowers catch fire,
If heaven resounds with a sigh of His enrapturing Call.

Nightingales Are Inebriated
Mortal ears forget what they heard in the world, [8.15]
If they just enter the circle of His enrapturing Call.
Life comes to naught, nothingness takes on eternity’s hues,
If the things unseen emerge from the veil of His enrapturing
Call.
Craving hearts vanish into utter self-effacement,
If they catch one glimpse of the flame of His enrapturing
Call.
How could have the Messiah crossed the heavenly vault,
Shouldn’t He have been guided by the roar of His
enrapturing Call?
Besides Him, no one could set his foot into the world of being,
So earnest is the watcher of His enrapturing Call.
No mortal eye could see any hue of existence, O son, [8.20]
If, for an instant, the eye would close of His enrapturing
Call.
O thirsty ones, plunge into the holy, and sanctified waters,
As the fountain is flowing of His enrapturing Call.
O Dervish, stop setting the fire of meanings to the world:
His enrapturing Call is entangled with His enrapturing Call.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call
Mast-and bulbulán is a 22 distiches poem composed by
Bahá’u’lláh, whose radíf is yá Húy-i-ú. While commenting upon
the use of radíf in Rúmí’s Díván, Johann Christoph Bürgel, an
expert in literatures of the Middle East, writes:
in Rúmí’s ghazals the radíf is not a mere ornament, and
also not just a formal factor that imparts unity to the
poem, but a strong vehicle of meaning which intensifies
the message and the symbolism. (“Speech is a ship” 50)
These words also apply to this poem by Bahá’u’lláh in which
the radíf, yá Húy-i-ú, His Yá Hú, translated “His enrapturing
Call,” does not meet only formal exigencies, but is a kind of
basso ostinato that reproduces, in its sound and meaning, the
ecstatic atmospheres of the meetings of Sufi brotherhoods.
During those meetings the Sufis perform two rites that
sometimes carry them to parasensory experiences: dhikr and
samá‘.
Dhikr, recollection or mention of God, is a particular, very
often repetitive, form of prayer. At the time of his initiation,
each aspirant Sufi is taught by his master a particular formula,
sometimes the Shahádá (there is no other god but God),
sometimes the Tasbí˙ (subhána’lláh, Glory to God), sometimes
one of the so called ninety-nine “Names Most beautiful (al-
asmá’u’l-˙usná)” of God, sometimes the invocation yá Hú.
Usually these formulas are repeated according to certain
techniques: choral chanting, certain gestures and movements,
and particular respiratory techniques, all of them instruments
through which Sufis aim at obtaining particular states of
consciousness which they define as ecstatic. The German
Orientalist Annemarie Schimmel (1922–2003) writes about the
dhikr:
The dhikr could be loud or silent; the loud one is
generally used in the meetings of Sufi brotherhoods and

Nightingales Are Inebriated
ends in the repetition of the last h of Alláh after every
other sound has slowly disappeared; this last stage
resembles a deep sigh. The silent dhikr too has been
described as a journey through the letters of the word
Alláh until the meditating person is, so to speak,
surrounded by the luminous circle of this final h, the
greatest proximity that one could hope to reach.
(Deciphering 148)
Bahá’u’lláh calls dhikr His Law˙-i-Halih-Halih-Halih-Yá-
Bishárat.
As to samá‘, the audition, the French ethnomusicologist Jean
During explains that the word samá‘
generally denotes the hearing of music, the concert, and
in its particular sense, the Íúfí tradition of spiritual
concert, in a more or less ritualised form. Samá‘ is then
considered to be the “nourishment of the soul,” in other
words, a devotional practice which, according to Íúfí
authors, can induce intense emotional transports
(tawádjud), states of grace (a˙wál), of trance or of
ecstasy (wádj, wudjúd) and even revelations. These
manifestations are often accompanied by movements,
physical agitation or dance which are of set form or
otherwise, individual or collective, of which Persian
miniatures have left numerous testimonies and of which
certain forms are still in use. (“Samá‘”)
This is its poetical description by the celebrated Sufi poet
Núr ad-Dín ‘Abdu’r-Ra˙mán Jámí (1414–1492), the last of the
great Persian poets, in a translation by William C. Chittick, the
author of important books on Islamic thought, Sufism, Shi’ism,
and Persian literature:
Do you know what it is — the sound of lute and rebec?
“You are my sufficiency, You are my all, O loving God!”

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The dry and dismal have no taste of sama‘ — otherwise, that
song has seized the world.
Oh that Minstrel! One tune and every atom of being began
to dance.
The ascetic stands on the shore of imagination and fantasy,
the gnostic’s soul is drowned in the sea of Being.
The holy threshold of Love has no form, but in every form It
shows Itself alone.
It displayed Itself in the clothing of Layla’s beauty,
It stole patience and ease from Majnún’s heart.
It tied the veil of Adhra to Its own face,
It opened the door of heartache on Wamiq’s cheek.4
In reality, It played love with Itself —
Wamiq and Majnún are nothing but names.
Jami saw the reflection of the Cupbearer,
then fell to prostration, a pitcher before the cup. (Diwan 301;
quoted in Chittick, Sufism 79-80)
As to the locution yá Húy-i-ú, His Yá Hú, literally “His ‘O
He!’,” Hú corresponds to the Arabic Huwa. In Sufi literature
the third-person singular pronoun, Huwa, is often used to
denote God in His hidden, unmanifested Essence. It means
Alláh, His Uniqueness ... [It] refers to the spiritual, abstract,
and bodiless entity of Alláh’s divinity and to His Ipseity. It also
symbolizes an advanced degree of ecstatic transport” (Chebel,
Dictionnaire 204). As has been just said, Yá Hú is a common
invocation among the Sufis, who use it as a dhikr in their
ecstatic sessions. Schimmel compares this invocation to the
Hindu Om and writes that
nobody who has heard the long-drawn-out call Huuu
(literally “He”) at the end of a dervish ceremony such as

Nightingales Are Inebriated
the Mevlevi samá‘ can forget this sound, whose
vibrations move body and mind equally. Listening to
such sounds, one understands why “sound” could be
regarded as Creative Power, and it becomes perfectly
clear why musical therapy with sacred, baraka-loaded
sounds was well known in Islamic culture and is still
practised among certain Sufi groups. (Deciphering 114)
According to Bausani the invocation yá Hú hints at the “Man
of God,” as “the sign of divine unity ... the absolute Reality
concentrated in a single very luminous point, God’s Personality”
(“Nota introduttiva e note” 21). He quotes an ode by Rúmí that
recites:
My place is the Placeless, my trace is the Traceless;
‘Tis neither body nor soul, for I belong to the soul of the
Beloved.
I have put duality away, I have seen that the two worlds are
one;
One I seek, One I know, One I see, One I call.
He is the first, He is the last, He is the outward, He is the
inward;
I know none other except “Yá Hú” and “Yá man Hú”
(Nicholson, Selected Poems 127, no.125, vv. 6-8)
In his translation of one of Rúmí’s ghazals Nicholson leaves
this call in the original language “Yá Hú” (Selected Poems 127,
XXXI.8; see also Rúmí, Mystical Poems 64, no.72, v. 8). However, since
the word “yahoo” is defined by the Oxford English Dictionary
“A name invented by Swift in Gulliver’s Travels for an
imaginary race of brutes having the form of men; frequently in
modern use, a person lacking cultivation or sensibility; a
philistine; a lout; a hooligan” (20:687),5 we have preferred to
convey its meaning through the locution “enrapturing call,”
which describes how this call is perceived in the Muslim world.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Another translation of this locution could be “His call of ‘O
God’.” In this poem by Bahá’u’lláh the locution “His
enrapturing Call (yá-Húy-i-ú)” could denote the announcement
of the revelation of the Beloved, therefore this whole poem
could be a description of the Most Great Spirit and of Its
impact on Bahá’u’lláh and on the world.
8.0
Huva’l-‘Azíz
He is the Glorious
Muslim writers often open their writing with an invocation of
God.
8.1
Mast-and bulbulán6 zi7 naghmiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú,
Ham ján-i-‘áshiqán zi8 jur‘iy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Nightingales are inebriated by the melody of His enrapturing
Call,
And spirit lovers by one draught of His enrapturing Call.
This verse announces the inebriation of the nightingales and the
lovers, the former when they hear the song of the Beloved, the
latter when they quaff His wine. Both motifs seem to denote the
Revelation of the Most Great Spirit. The joy caused by the
announcement of His Revelation is a recurring theme in
Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings. For example He wrote in one of His
Tablets:
Proclaim unto every longing lover: “Behold, your Well-
Beloved (Yár) hath come among men!” and to the
messengers of the Monarch of love impart the tidings:
“Lo, the Adored One (Nigár) hath appeared arrayed in
the fullness of His glory!” O lovers of His beauty! Turn

Nightingales Are Inebriated
the anguish of your separation from Him into the joy of
an everlasting reunion, and let the sweetness of His
presence dissolve the bitterness of your remoteness from
His court. (GWB 320, sec. CLI, para.1, Law˙-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq;
Muntakhabátí 206)
8.2
Ján bi-Jánán mí-rasad bá vajd-u ˙álat dar damí,
Gar bi-gúsh-i-ú rasad9 yik ßay˙iy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
In a fit of ecstasy, souls conjoin with the Adored One,
As soon as they hear an echo of His enrapturing Call.
This distich introduces the concepts of vajd and ˙álat, two
words that denote ecstasy. As to vajd, it means: “being
transported, in an ecstasy of love; ecstasy, excessive love”
(Steingass 1457). Shaykh Abú Ismá‘íl ‘Abd’Alláh Anßárí (1006–
1088), one of the earliest Persian mystical poets, lists 100
stations in his first work, Sad Maydán (lit. A Hundred Fields),
centred on love for God. He writes about vajd:
Ecstasy is the eight-ninth field and arises from the field
of mystical perception. God, the most high, has said,
“We made their hearts firm when they stood forth and
said, ‘Our Lord is the Lord of the heavens and the
earth.’” (XVIII: 14).
Ecstasy is a fire which is kindled from striking the stone
of freewill against the iron of spiritual need. It possesses
three aspects: an ecstasy of the psyche (nafs), an ecstasy
of the heart (del), and an ecstasy of the soul (jan).
The psyche’s ecstasy overpowers the intellect, puts
patience to flight, and reveals the invisible. This ecstasy
is spiritual (ma‘nawi) in nature.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The heart’s ecstasy, however, puts such a strain on one’s
endurance that one is driven to move, to cry out and
rend one’s clothes. This ecstasy is also spiritual in
nature.
But the ecstasy which befalls the soul, (jan) bestows
delight in the vision of God, drowns the psyche (nafs) in
Truth-Reality, and beckons the soul towards severance
from the body. One who experiences this ecstasy is the
object of God’s regard. (Íad Maydán 428-29, quoted in
Nurbakhsh 1:185)
Bahá’u’lláh mentions “a fit of ecstasy (vajd-u ˙álat)” (v.2)
and writes that “the Maids (Óúryán) ... go into raptures (vajd), |
If they hear the melody of His enrapturing Call” (v.12).
As to ˙álat, it means “state, quality, condition ... one of the
stages of the mystical progress of the Súfis, ecstasy” (Steingass
409). In the Sufi world ˙ál, another form of the word ˙álat, is
defined as follows:
Literally, state [˙ál] denotes the end of the past and the
beginning of the future. From the point of view of the
people of God, however, it is a spiritual reality that
occurs to the heart without the hearts claiming to
possess it or seeking to acquire it, whether it be rapture,
sorrow, contraction, expansion or awe. With the re-
emergence of the attributes of the nafs it disappears,
whether to be followed by another state similar to it or
not. Whenever it lasts, becoming permanent, it is known
as a station. States are gifts, while stations are acquired.
The former comes from the wellspring of God’s
Generosity, while the latter are attained through effort
and spiritual striving (mojáhada). (Nurbakhsh 8:84-5)
This poem by Bahá’u’lláh is an ecstatic poem, the fruit of the
ecstatic experiences He had in Teheran. It is filled with this
mystical condition.

Nightingales Are Inebriated
This distich seemingly announces the reunion of the soul with
the Beloved, when the Beloved sings Yá Hú, that is reveals
Himself through “His enrapturing Call.” This reunion can be
seen at least in two perspectives. The first is the reunion of the
Manifestation of God with the Most Great Spirit. This concept
has been described by Bahá’u’lláh through a Muslim Tradition:
Arise, O Mu˙ammad, for lo, the Lover (Óabíb) and the
Beloved (Ma˙búb) are joined together and made one in
Thee. (GWB 64, sec. XXVII, para.4; Muntakhabátí 51)
The second aspect is the reunion of all the souls with the soul
of the Manifestation of God. This concept is described by
Bahá’u’lláh in the following words:
Hear Me, ye mortal birds! In the Rose Garden of
changeless splendor a Flower hath begun to bloom,
compared to which every other flower is but a thorn,
and before the brightness of Whose glory the very
essence of beauty must pale and wither. Arise, therefore,
and, with the whole enthusiasm of your hearts, with all
the eagerness of your souls, the full fervor of your will,
and the concentrated efforts of your entire being, strive
to attain the paradise of His presence, and endeavor to
inhale the fragrance of the incorruptible Flower, to
breathe the sweet savors of holiness, and to obtain a
portion of this perfume of celestial glory. Whoso
followeth this counsel will break his chains asunder, will
taste the abandonment of enraptured love, will attain
unto his heart’s desire, and will surrender his soul into
the hands of his Beloved. Bursting through his cage, he
will, even as the bird of the spirit, wing his flight to his
holy and everlasting nest. (GWB 320-1, sec. CLI, para.3, Law˙-
i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq)

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
8.3
Ján-i-‘áshiq bar-parad tá Sidriy-i-Aqßáy-i-‘Ishq,
Gar madadkár-ash buvad yik naghmiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Spirit lovers fly away to the remote Tree of Love,
If they are assisted by the melody of His enrapturing Call.
The first hemistich mentions “the remote Tree of Love (Sidriy-i-
Aqßáy-i-‘Ishq).” Bahá’u’lláh uses the term sidrih with two
different acceptations. In other poems it is a reference to the
Burning Bush from which Moses heard God’s voice calling Him
and announcing His Prophetic mission. However, Sidrih also is
a Koranic term, used in the locution “the Sidrah-tree, which
marks the boundary (al-Muntahá)” (53:14). This tree “could
represent the boundary which human knowledge cannot surpass,
marked by a mysterious Lote-tree” (Bausani, “Introduzione e
commento” 667n14-15). Persian mystic poets use the following
locutions: “sidratuʼl-muntahá, sidraʼit †úbá, A lote-tree in
Paradise; the heavenly mansion of the angel Gabriel; — †áʼiri
sidra, The bird of the heavenly lote-tree, i.e. Gabriel” (Steingass
663). Therefore this word could also denote the Sadratu’l-
Muntahá, a term that “is often used in the Bahá’í Writings to
designate the Manifestation of God Himself” (“Preface and Notes”
220n128) and “to designate Bahá’u’lláh” (ibid. 220n164). It is the
station of the Manifestation of God. Therefore this distich
could hint at Bahá’u’lláh accepting His Prophethood, when the
Most Great Spirit sings Yá Hú, that is reveals Itself to Him
through “His enrapturing Call.”
8.4
Mast gardad ‘álam-i-Hastí, chih10 ‘áshiq az jamál,
Gar bi-dawr uftad zi Sáqí bádiy-í yá Húy-i-ú.
The world of Being is intoxicated as a lover by beauty,

Nightingales Are Inebriated
If the Cup-bearer hands round the wine of His enrapturing
Call.
The Cup-bearer seems to be the Manifestation of God, the wine
of His enrapturing Call seems to be Its Revelation. When the
Most Great Spirit reveals Itself, through His Manifestation, the
world of being is filled with joy. This hemistich is reminiscent
of the Tablet of Carmel:
Seized with transports of joy, and raising high her voice,
she [Mount Carmel] thus exclaimed: “May my life be a
sacrifice to Thee, inasmuch as Thou hast fixed Thy gaze
upon me, hast bestowed upon me Thy bounty, and hast
directed towards me Thy steps. Separation from Thee, O
Thou Source of everlasting life, hath well nigh consumed
me, and my remoteness from Thy presence hath burned
away my soul. All praise be to Thee for having enabled
me to hearken to Thy call, for having honored me with
Thy footsteps, and for having quickened my soul
through the vitalizing fragrance of Thy Day and the
shrilling voice of Thy Pen, a voice Thou didst ordain as
Thy trumpet-call amidst Thy people. And when the hour
at which Thy resistless Faith was to be made manifest did
strike, Thou didst breathe a breath of Thy spirit into Thy
Pen, and lo, the entire creation shook to its very
foundations, unveiling to mankind such mysteries as lay
hidden within the treasuries of Him Who is the Possessor
of all created things.” (TB 3, para.2, Law˙-i-Karmil)
8.5
Músíy-i-Ján munßa‘iq dar ˇúr-i-Ma‘ní uftad,11
Gar bar afrúzad bi-Síná jadhviy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
The Moses of Spirit faints on the Mystic Mount,
If the Sinai is lit with the spark of His enrapturing Call.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In this verse Bahá’u’lláh refers to Moses through the image of
Mount Sinai, and uses the words ˇúr, “A mountain, especially
mount Sinai” (Steingass 821) and Síná, “Mount Sina” (Steingass 718).
The image used in this verse is drawn from the story of Moses as
narrated in the Koran. When God revealed Himself to Moses on
Mount Sinai, He swooned, that is He became annihilated.
Lambden remarks:
Celebrating
the
spiritually
intoxicating
and
eschatological consequences of the Divine Beloved’s
rhythmic chant “O He!” (yá hú), Bahá’u’lláh ... associates
the burning of the “firebrand” (jadhwa) of this
invocation on Sinai with the “Moses of the soul” (músáy-
i ján) falling into a swoon on the “Mystic Mount” (†úr-i
ma’aní). (“Sinaitic Mysteries” 116-7)
It seems a reference to the “‘Sinai’ of Moses’ ‘bosom’ (or
interior self)” (Lambden, “Sinaitic Mysteries” 5:109-10, cf. Koran 27:12),
purified by the quickening influence of the Beloved. And thus
this distich seemingly hints at the annihilation of the human
qualities of Bahá’u’lláh in front of the Most Great Spirit, when
He received the Intimation of His Divine Mission.
As to the word spark (jadhvih), it seems to denote an
emanation of Spirit. Also Western mystics used the term spark
to denote a spiritual reality. For example the German
Dominican preacher, theologian and mystic Meister Johannes
Eckhart (ca. 1260–1327) calls the inner self “scintilla animae (the
spark of the soul).” He wrote:
I have occasionally said that there is a power in the spirit
that alone is free. Occasionally, I’ve said that there is a
shelter of the spirit. Occasionally, I’ve said there is a
light of the spirit. Occasionally, I’ve said there is a little
spark. Now, however, I say it is neither this nor that. All
the same, it is a something, which is more elevated above
this and that than heaven is over earth. For this reason I
name it now in a more noble way than I have ever named

Nightingales Are Inebriated
it in the past ... It is free of all names and bare of all
forms, totally free and void just as God is void and free
in himself. It is totally one and simple, just as God is one
and simple, so that we can in no manner gaze into it ...
For the Father really lives in this power, and the Spirit
gives rise along with the Father to the same only
begotten Son. (Passion for Creation 277)
8.6
ˇúr-i-dil gardad munír-u ján bi-raqß áyad hamí,
Gar dar-uftad dar já˙án yik ghunniy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
The Sinai of the heart shines and the soul dances,
If the earth echoes with the warbling of His enrapturing
Call.
The image of the Sinai is also used in this distich, which seems
to describe the light and the joy brought by the new Revelation.
Bahá’u’lláh adopts the locution “the Sinai of the heart (ˇúr-i-
dil)” in other Writings as well:
The light hath shone on thee from the horizon of the
sacred Mount and the spirit of enlightenment hath
breathed in the Sinai (síná’) of thy heart (qalb). (Arabic
Hidden Words, no.63; Al-Kalimátu’l-Maknúnat 29)
Verily, I say, so fierce is the blaze of the Bush of love,
burning in the Sinai of the heart (sínáy-i-˙ubb), that the
streaming waters of holy utterance can never quench its
flame. (KI 61, para.65, KMI47)
As has been said, both the two words ˇúr and Síná denote
Mount Sinai. As to the sentence “the soul dances,” the place of
dance in mystic writings is variously explained. Javad
Nurbakhsh (1926–2008), the master of the Ni’matu’lláhi Sufi

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Order from 1953, a psychiatrist and a prolific writer, explains
that dance is “rapture of the spirit” (1:179). He also writes:
Abo’l-Hasan Kharaqani12 said, “Dancing is the activity
of one who, as he stamps his feet on the ground, sees
through the earth, and as he flings up his hands, beholds
the
divine
throne.
All
dancing
besides
this
is
disrespectful to the character of Bâyazid Bastâmi,
Jonaid, and Shebli.”13 (1:180)
Óáfiẓ writes:
Come, let us under the sword go merrily dancing (raqß)
together;
Fortunate he at last whom thou, Beloved, has slain!
(Quoted in Nicholson, “Notes” 243.XVI.9; see Divan 117,
“Ghazalyát,” no.111, v.9)
He writes moreover:
On the sky, — what if, of Óáfiẓ utterances
Zuhra’s singing should bring to dancing (raqß) the
Masí˙á (Christ). (Díván 44, “Ghazalyát,” no.9, v.9; see Divan 8,
“Ghazalyát,” no.4, v.8)
Dance as an expression of spiritual joy is not foreign to
Western tradition. Titus Burckhardt (1908–1984), the Swiss
master of the spiritualist tradition, writes:
A Psalm in the Bible says: “Let them praise His Name in
the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the
timbrel and the harp” [see Psalms 149:3]. It is known that
the sacred dance exists in Jewish esotericism, finding its
model in the dancing of King David before the ark of
the covenant [see 2 Kings 6:14]. The apocryphal Gospel of
the Childhood speaks of the Virgin as a child dancing on

Nightingales Are Inebriated
the altar steps [see Book of James or Protevangelium 7:3], and
certain folk customs allow us to conclude that these
models were imitated in mediaeval Christianity. St
Theresa of Avila and her nuns danced to the sound of
tambourines. (Introduction 104n6)
One remembers the story of David:
And David danced before the Lord with all his might;
and David was girded with a linen ephod. So David and
all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord
with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet ... And
they brought in the ark of the Lord, and set it in his
place, in the midst of the tabernacle that David had
pitched for it: and David offered burnt offerings and
peace offerings before the Lord. And as soon as David
had made an end of offering burnt offerings and peace
offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord
of hosts. (2 Kings 6:14-6, 17-8)
8.7
Ma˙v gardad rang-i-ghayríyyat zi ßaf˙iy-i-rúzgar,
Gar nasímí bar-vazad az ja‘diy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Any shade of strangeness disappears from the pages of the
world,
If a breeze wafts from the locks of His enrapturing Call.
This distich uses the image of the perfume exhaling from a
scented lock to describe the disappearance of “otherness
(ghayríyat)” from the world.
The word ghayríyat, “Change, alteration; strangeness,
unreality; jealousy” (Steingass 901), means in theological contexts
to be ghayr, and ghayr in its turn means “other, different”
(Steingass 900), that is different from God or unrelated to God.
Toshihiko Izutzu (1914–1993), a leading figure in the fields of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Islamic, Far Eastern and comparative philosophy, explained that
in “the ordinary empirical state”
things are separated and distinguished first from each
other, and then from the Absolute. In this dimension
man normally sees only the phenomenal world, and
considers the Absolute — if man at all becomes aware of
the existence of something beyond the phenomenal
world — as the entirely “other” (ghayr). (Creation 54)
However, he adds, in the state of unification called by the Sufis
baqá’ or jam‘,
all the separate things are seen reduced to their original
existential unity. All things, beginning with the self-
consciousness of the mystic, disappear from awareness.
The light of the phenomenal world is extinguished. There
remains only absolute unity. There is not even the
consciousness of the unity, for there is no trace here of
any consciousness. The whole universe is unity. And the
unity is light, but at the same time it is the darkness of
the phenomenal world. (ibid.)
It is the mystic unitive ecstasy that Sufis believed to be
accessible to the great mystics.
Bahá’u’lláh seems to explain the concepts of alterity and
unification in a different way. He relates these concepts with a
verse of the Koran saying:
All on the earth shall pass away, But the face (wajh) of
thy Lord shall abide resplendent with majesty and glory.
(55:26-7, Rodwell)
He writes:
Canst thou discover any one but Me (ghayrí), O Pen, in
this Day? What hath become of the creation and the
manifestations thereof? What of the names and their

Nightingales Are Inebriated
kingdom? Whither are gone all created things, whether
seen or unseen? What of the hidden secrets of the
universe and its revelations? Lo, the entire creation hath
passed away! Nothing remaineth except My Face (wajhí),
the Ever-Abiding, the Resplendent, the All-Glorious.
(GWB 29, sec. XIV, para.4, Law˙-i-Ri∂ván; Muntakhabátí 28)
He adds elsewhere:
I know not how long they shall spur on the charger of
self and passion and rove in the wilderness of error and
negligence! Shall either the pomp of the mighty or the
wretchedness of the abased endure? Shall he who
reposeth upon the loftiest seat of honour, who hath
attained the pinnacle of might and glory, abide forever?
Nay, by My Lord, the All-Merciful! All on earth shall
pass away, and there remaineth alone the face (wajh) of
My Lord, the All-Glorious, the Most-Bountiful. (SLH 133,
sec. 1, para.269, Súriy-i-Haykal: Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh; Áthár 1:86)
This passage seems to convey a concept of alterity as referred
to the Manifestation of God, and not to God Himself. All
human beings are nothing in front of Him, and are expected to
totally surrender to Him, so that nothing of their will should
remain that is not identified with His Will.
Another explanation of the concept of alterity among the
Sufis is given by Chittick:
“Otherness” is a veil over our eyes woven by our own
imagination. Neither we ourselves nor the things we
perceive outside of ourselves are truly other than God.
(Sufi Path of Love 304)
Rúmí writes in this regard:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Oh Life of the spirit! Since Thou hast a home in this
world, why does the dirt in the road not speak? Why are
stones unaware?
Why does poison taste bitter? Why are thorns sharp?
Why does anger display violence? Why are nights dark?
One day in the garden of His Face I kept wondering how
in this world, during His reign, a thorn could be a thorn.
Has that Presence out of jealousy (ghayrat) masked His
own Face? Does He maintain His “otherness (ghayrí)” so
that “others (ághyarí)” cannot see Him?
Or is the very eye of the world so coarse and gross and
perverted that it can perceive nothing of the Gentleness
of that Radiant face. (Díván, “Ghazalyát” 2555, v.1-5, quoted
in Chittick, Sufi Path of Love 307)
Bahá’u’lláh uses the term ghayríyat in the following context:
Any shade of strangeness (ghayríyat) disappears from the
pages of the world,
If a breeze wafts from the locks of His enrapturing Call.
This verse seems to convey all the above explained meanings.
When the Beloved becomes manifest in the world, showing His
unique qualities, all veils seem to fall and His lovers become
annihilated in Him. Bahá’u’lláh seems to state in this verse that
when He becomes manifest in the world, everything vanishes,
only His sovereign Word remains. And whoever is willing to
love Him has the possibility of not being deprived of the
bountiful Grace of that Word. This distich may also mean that
the new Revelation has given to all human beings the
opportunity to understand the concept of Divine Unity:

Nightingales Are Inebriated
The essence of belief in Divine unity consisteth in
regarding Him Who is the Manifestation of God and
Him Who is the invisible, the inaccessible, the
unknowable Essence as one and the same. By this is
meant that whatever pertaineth to the former, all His
acts and doings, whatever He ordaineth or forbiddeth,
should be considered, in all their aspects, and under all
circumstances, and without any reservation, as identical
with the Will of God Himself. This is the loftiest station
to which a true believer in the unity of God can ever
hope to attain. (GWB 166, sec. LXXXIV, para.4)
Finally, since ghayríyat also means “strangeness” (Steingass
901), this sentence could also hint at the spirit of brotherhood,
that is the contrary of “strangeness,” amongst human beings
brought by the new Revelation.
8.8
Az qyám-ash tu qyámat bín míyán-i-‘áshiqán,
Ham shinú áváz-i-Íúr az nafkhiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
As He arises, you see the lovers resurrected, and hear
Sarafiel’s trumpet from the blow of His enrapturing Call.
This distich uses the language of eschatology, referring to the
Day
of
judgment
or
resurrection
through
the
words
resurrection, qyámat, “The resurrection, last day” (Steingass 997),
Sarafiel’s trumpet, Íúr, “A trumpet, clarion, horn; the trumpet
of Isráfíl summoning mankind to resurrection” (Steingass 796),
and the word nafkhih, “One blow; [nafkhatuʼl-baʻß, The
trumpet-blast of resurrection; — nafkhaʼi rú˙, The Holy Spirit
which the angel Gabriel blew into the sleeve of Mary according
to Muhammadan belief]” (Steingass 1415), used in the Koran to
refer to the trumpet-blast or horn-blast of resurrection (Koran
6:73, 23:101, 39:68, 69:13, etc.).

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Resurrection can be seen in two different perspectives,
personal and eschatological. As to the personal perspective, the
key to read this metaphor is in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
Such things have come to pass in the days of every
Manifestation of God. Even as Jesus said: “Ye must be
born again [1 John 3:7].” Again He saith: “Except a man
be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into
the Kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is
flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit [2
John 3:5-6].” The purport of these words is that
whosoever in every dispensation is born of the Spirit and
is quickened by the breath of the Manifestation of
Holiness, he verily is of those that have attained unto
“life” and “resurrection (ba‘ath)” and have entered into
the “paradise” of the love of God. And whosoever is not
of them, is condemned to “death” and “deprivation,” to
the “fire” of unbelief, and to the “wrath” of God. In all
the scriptures, the books and chronicles, the sentence of
death, of fire, of blindness, of want of understanding
and hearing, hath been pronounced against those whose
lips have tasted not the ethereal cup of true knowledge,
and whose hearts have been deprived of the grace of the
holy Spirit in their day. Even as it hath been previously
recorded: “Hearts have they with which they understand
not [Koran 7:178].” (KI 118-9, para.125; KMI90)
As to the eschatological perspective, Bahá’u’lláh concisely
writes:
the Day of Resurrection (qyámat) ... is the Day of the
rise of God Himself through His all-embracing
Revelation. (KI 143, para.151; KMI111)
According to the Koranic descriptions of the Day of
Judgment or Resurrection, this Day will be announced by the

Nightingales Are Inebriated
blast of the trumpet of the Angel Seraphiel (ßúr), the Angel of
death, mentioned in verse 8. The motif of the Koranic horn is
explained by Bahá’u’lláh in His Kitáb-i-ˆqán. He writes,
referring to the Mu˙ammadic Dispensation, that “by ‘trumpet
(ßúr)’ is meant the trumpet-call of Mu˙ammad’s Revelation,
which was sounded in the heart of the universe, and by
‘resurrection’ is meant His own rise to proclaim the Cause of
God”
(KI
116,
para.123;
KMI89). Then He explains that
“resurrection” is the day of the advent of each Manifestation of
God. In this hemistich Bahá’u’lláh may allude to the beginning
of His Own Dispensation.
8.9
Ján-i-‘áshiq bar-parad tá ‘arsh-u zán ham bu-gudharad,
Chún shavad majdhúb-i-‘ishq az jadhbiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Spirit lovers fly towards the Heavenly Throne, and beyond it,
When they are drawn to love in their ecstasy of His
enrapturing Call.
This distich describes the lover falling a prisoner of Love
through the revelation of the Most Great Spirit and winging his
flight towards the “Heavenly Throne (‘Arsh).”
In the language of the Sufis the Throne (‘Arsh) is always
associated with Divine power. In the hierarchy of the Divine
worlds typical of Sufism, to which Bahá’u’lláh sometimes
referred (see Savi, Towards the Summit 31-5, 270-88), the throne is
variously interpreted as the world of Háhút, or of Láhút, or of
Jabarút. The Throne, ‘Arsh, of God is often mentioned in the
Bahá’í Writings, and it usually denotes the sovereignty of God.
As to the “Heavenly Throne (‘Arsh),” mentioned in verse 9, it
could hint at the lofty station of the Manifestation of God. For
further comments upon the concept of throne in the Bahá’í
Writings, see Savi, Towards the Summit 88-9 and 1.14.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In the light of what has been said, this distich seems to
explain in poetical terms that the Manifestation of God reaches
the apex of the heavenly hierarchy because of His deep love for
the Most Great Spirit.
8.10
Dast bar-dárad zi ján jánán bi-jahd,14
Gar futad dar mulk-i-hastí jilviy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Lovers eagerly forfeit their lives, if in the world
The splendour is unveiled of His enrapturing Call.
When the Most Great Spirit reveals Itself, the Manifestation of
God, and with Him all the lovers of God, lay down their all,
even their life. Bahá’u’lláh has exposed this concept in many
passages. For example He wrote:
Every moment of my life my head crieth out to Thee and
saith: “Would, O my Lord, that I could be raised on the
spear-point in Thy path!” while my blood entreateth
Thee saying: “Dye the earth with me, O my God, for the
sake of Thy love and Thy pleasure!” Thou knowest that I
have, at no time, sought to guard my body against any
affliction, nay rather I have continually anticipated the
things Thou didst ordain for me in the Tablet of Thy
decree. (PM 106, sec. 66, para.7)
By God! Mine head yearneth for the spear out of love
for its Lord. I never passed a tree, but Mine heart
addressed it saying: “O would that thou wert cut down
in My name, and My body crucified upon thee, in the
path of My Lord!,” for I see the people wandering
distraught and unconscious in their drunken stupor. (SLH
132, sec. 1, para.266, Súriy-i-Haykal: Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh)

Nightingales Are Inebriated
8.11
Bád-i-báqí bar-vazad az mulk-i-fání ín Zamán,
Chún vazídih búy-i-mishg az náfiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
The breeze of eternity wafts in this Day from the mortal
kingdom,
‘Cause a fragrant scent breathes from the musk of His
enrapturing Call.
The stage of annihilation (faná’) implies a denial and
subjugation of all one’s personal attributes, a goal that seekers
must reach, if they want to attain their subsistence in God
(baqá’), that is, the affirmation and acquisition of the divine
qualities. The term fáná’ denotes among the Sufis “extinction of
individual limitation in the state of Union with God” (Burckhardt,
Introduction 116). It means the abandonment of personal
attributes, required so that subsistence in God, baqá’, that is,
the acquisition of the divine qualities, may be attained. Fání is
“(in the parlance of the Súfís) one who has reached the state of
faná’, or annihilation” (Steingass 905). In the Bahá’í Writings this
term seems to denote a person who increasingly subordinates his
animal nature to his spiritual nature, through his submission to
the will of God as voiced by His Manifestation (see Savi, Towards
the Summit 366-7). The locution “mortal kingdom (mulk-i-fání)”
seems to describe not only the human world, but also that
human condition whereby the flesh keeps longer and longer
silence, that condition which Sufis call faná’.
These verses allude to the victory over the self that love
requires.
The locution “in this Day (ín Zamán)” is not a mere temporal
indication, it may also refer to the Day of God (Yawm-i-Khudá),
which Bahá’u’lláh calls both with the Persian-Arabic words
zamán and yawm. Bahá’u’lláh explains its meaning in the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
This is the Day of God (Yawm Alláh), the Day on which
naught shall be mentioned save His own Self, the
omnipotent Protector of all worlds. (KA80, para.167; Arabic
160)
He also explains it in the Súriy-i-Haykal:
the Day of God (Yawm Alláh) is none other but His own
Self, Who hath appeared with the power of truth (SLH,
Súriy-i-Haykal 27, sec. 1, para. 63; Áthár 1:20)
The Day of God (Yawm-i-Khudá), one of the leitmotivs of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings, is extensively described by Bahá’u’lláh as
a Day
[that] eclipseth all other created Days (SLH 80, 1, para.154,
Súriy-i-Haykal: Napoleon III),
which the Pen of the Most High hath glorified in all the
holy Scriptures (GWB 13, sec. X, para.2);
[alluded to] in all the sacred Scriptures15 (GWB 11, sec. VII,
para.2, Law˙-i-Karmil);
which God hath announced through the tongue of His
Apostle [Mu˙ammad] (ESW 101);
the purpose underlying all creation ... the Day which all
the Prophets, and the Chosen Ones, and the holy ones,
have wished to witness (Quoted in Shoghi Effendi, ADJ 77);
[for which] the soul of every Prophet of God, of every
Divine Messenger, hath thirsted ... All the divers
kindreds of the earth have, likewise, yearned to attain
(GWB 10, sec. VII, para.2, Súriy-i-Qamíß),
[when] He, the Ancient of everlasting days is come,
girded with majesty and power (GWB 36, sec. XV, para.1);

Nightingales Are Inebriated
of God Himself ... [when] the Lord alone shall be exalted
(GWB 13, sec. X, para.2);
on which naught shall be mentioned save His own Self,
the omnipotent Protector of all worlds (KA 80, para.167);
which God hath exalted above all other days, and
whereon the All-Merciful hath shed the splendor of His
effulgent glory upon all who are in heaven and all who
are on earth (SLH 68, par. 133, Lawh-i-Haykal: Napoleon III);
in which God’s most excellent favors have been poured
out upon men, the Day in which His most mighty grace
hath been infused into all created things (Quoted in Shoghi
Effendi, ADJ 77);
in which the fragrances of mercy have been wafted over
all created things, a Day so blest that past ages and
centuries can never hope to rival it, a Day in which the
countenance of the Ancient of Days hath turned towards
His holy seat (TB 3, Law˙-i-Karmil).
whereon the Ocean of God’s mercy hath been manifested
unto men (GWB 7),
[in which] the potentialities inherent in the station of
man, the full measure of his destiny on earth, the innate
excellence of his reality, must all be manifested (GWB 340,
sec. CLXII, para.1);
[when] “God will satisfy everyone out of His
abundance” (TB 67, Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih, quoting Koran
4:129);
that God hath ordained to be a blessing unto the
righteous, a retribution for the wicked, a bounty for the
faithful and a fury of His wrath for the faithless and the
forward (TB 103, Ishráqát).

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Day of God is described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the Day when
the Sun of Reality will arise ... with the utmost warmth
and splendor (SAQ 57, sec. 11, para.44).
Many passages by Bahá’u’lláh on the greatness of this Day are
quoted by Shoghi Effendi in his Advent (ADJ 77-80).
The “breeze of immortality (bád-i-báqí)” hints not only at the
renewed spirituality brought by the new Revelation, but also at
that condition which Sufis called baqá’ and which has been
described above as “the affirmation and acquisition of the
divine qualities.” The “musky scent (búy-i-mishg)” could
describe the effusion of spiritual bounties bestowed by the new
Revelation. The image of the “musk-pod (náfih),” “A bag or
bladder of musk; the belly, or skin of the belly of any animal”
(Steingass 1376), is commonly used by Sufi poets. Óáfiẓ writes:
Of the musk (mushk) of Khutan and of musk-pod (náfih)
of Chín none hath seen
What, from the fragrant morning breeze (of the east)
every morning I see. (Díván 671, “Ghazalyát,” no.392, v. 5;
Divan 370, no.357, v. 6)
Verse 11 could hint at the spiritual transformation that takes
place in all the seekers that inhale the scents of the Revelation
of the Spirit in this new Day of God.
8.12
Óúríyán dar ghurfiy-i-‘izzat bi-vajd áyand, agar
Bar-vazad bar gúsh-ishán16 yik ranniy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
The Maids in the glorious chambers go into raptures,
If they hear the melody of His enrapturing Call.
This distich describes, with the typical hyperbolic language
characterizing the Sufi descriptions of the Beloved, the

Nightingales Are Inebriated
exultation of the spiritual worlds for the advent of the new
Day. The “Maids (Óúríyán)” in their “glorious chambers
(ghurfiy-i-‘izzat)” are reminiscent of the Tablet of the Holy
Mariner, when it says:
Whereupon the maid of heaven (Óúríyata’r-Rú˙) looked
out from her exalted chamber (ghurfáta’l-a‘lá) (BP 224;
Ma’idih 4:336)
8.13
ˇar˙í az naw bi-fikanad andar jahán-i-áb-u gil,
Gar †ulú‘ árad17 zi mashriq vajhiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
New designs are drawn in the world of water and clay,
If from the East the features arise of His enrapturing Call.
This distich hints at the renewal of the world brought by the
parousia of the Beloved. It is reminiscent of the following
sentence in one of the Tablets of Ri∂ván:
Verily, We have caused every soul to expire by virtue of
Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty. We have,
then, called into being a new creation, as a token of Our
grace unto men. (GWB 29-30, sec. XIV, para.5, Law˙-i-Ri∂ván)
Bahá’u’lláh writes moreover:
Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at
the bidding of the omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new
life into every human frame, and instilled into every
word a fresh potency. All created things proclaim the
evidences of this world-wide regeneration. (TB 84, Law˙-i-
Dunyá)
The second hemistich is reminiscent of the following words
written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
From the beginning of time until the present day ... the
light of Divine Revelation hath risen in the East and shed
its radiance upon the West. The illumination thus shed
hath, however, acquired in the West an extraordinary
brilliancy ... In the books of the Prophets ... certain
glad-tidings are recorded which are absolutely true and
free from doubt. The East hath ever been the dawning-
place of the Sun of Truth. In the East all the Prophets of
God have appeared ... The West hath acquired
illumination from the East but in some respects the
reflection of the light hath been greater in the Occident.
(quoted in WOB 74-5)
8.14
‘Álam-i-imkán bi-súzad ham khiyám-i-‘izz-i-quds,
Gar bar-áyad bar18 samá yik náliy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
The earthly world and the holy and glorious bowers catch fire,
If heaven resounds with a sigh of His enrapturing Call.
This verse seems to hint at the beneficial effects of the new
Revelation on all the world, even the supernal worlds. The
image of the “holy and glorious bowers (khiyám-i-‘izz-i-quds)”
also is used in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán where it could describe the
spiritual worlds whence the Manifestations of God descend on
earth:
The significance and essential purpose underlying these
words is to reveal and demonstrate unto the pure in
heart and the sanctified in spirit that they Who are the
Luminaries of truth and the Mirrors reflecting the light
of divine Unity, in whatever age and cycle they are sent
down from their invisible habitations of ancient glory
(khiyám-i-ghayb-huwiyyih) unto this world, to educate
the souls of men and endue with grace all created things,
are invariably endowed with an all-compelling power,

Nightingales Are Inebriated
and invested with invincible sovereignty. (KI 97, para.103;
KMI73)
Thou art surely aware of their idle contention, that all
Revelation is ended, that the portals of Divine mercy are
closed, that from the day-springs of eternal holiness no
sun shall rise again, that the Ocean of everlasting bounty
is forever stilled, and that out of the Tabernacle of
ancient glory (khiyám-i-ghayb-i-rabbání) the Messengers
of God have ceased to be made manifest. (KI 137, para.148;
KMI107)
8.15
Gúsh-i-‘álam pák gardad zán-chih bi-shníd az jahán,
Gar dar-áyad yik damí dar ˙alqiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Mortal ears forget what they heard in the world,
If they just enter the circle of His enrapturing Call.
This verse seems to hint that the new Revelation implies the
abandonment of whatever had been learnt from the past
culture. The locution “the circle of His enrapturing Call (˙alqiy-
i-yá Húy-i-ú)” is better understood in the light of the Sufi
explanations of the term ˙alqih, which Steingass also defines “an
assembly, circle of friends, fraternity” (Steingass 428):
The sitting together of the Sufis in an assembly for the
purpose of the remembrance of God is called a circle.
The symbolism is that of links in a chain, all joined to
one another and forged into a single unit. Likewise, the
hearts of the Sufis in the circle of samâ‘ are so closely
conjoined that they form a single heart. (Nurbakhsh 1:175)
The wording of this verse resembles what Bahá’u’lláh writes in
the Kitáb-i-ˆqán:

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
They that tread the path of faith, they that thirst for the
wine of certitude, must cleanse themselves of all that is
earthly — their ears (gúsh) from idle talk ... (KI 3, para. 2;
KMI2)
This concept is explained in doctrinal terms in the same book:
As He hath said: “When the heaven shall be cloven
asunder [Koran 82:1].” By “heaven” is meant the heaven of
divine Revelation, which is elevated with every
Manifestation, and rent asunder with every subsequent
one. By “cloven asunder” is meant that the former
Dispensation is superseded and annulled. I swear by God!
That this heaven being cloven asunder is, to the
discerning, an act mightier than the cleaving of the skies!
Ponder a while. That a divine Revelation which for years
hath been securely established; beneath whose shadow all
who have embraced it have been reared and nurtured; by
the light of whose law generations of men have been
disciplined; the excellency of whose word men have
heard recounted by their fathers; in such wise that
human eye hath beheld naught but the pervading
influence of its grace, and mortal ear hath heard naught
but the resounding majesty of its command — what act
is mightier than that such a Revelation should, by the
power of God, be “cloven asunder” and be abolished at
the appearance of one soul? Reflect, is this a mightier act
than that which these abject and foolish men have
imagined the “cleaving of the heaven” to mean? (KI 44-5,
para. 46)
Shoghi Effendi explained the same concept in the following
words:
If long-cherished ideals and time-honored institutions, if
certain social assumptions and religious formulae have
ceased to promote the welfare of the generality of

Nightingales Are Inebriated
mankind, if they no longer minister to the needs of a
continually evolving humanity, let them be swept away
and relegated to the limbo of obsolescent and forgotten
doctrines. Why should these, in a world subject to the
immutable law of change and decay, be exempt from the
deterioration that must needs overtake every human
institution? For legal standards, political and economic
theories are solely designed to safeguard the interests of
humanity as a whole, and not humanity to be crucified
for the preservation of the integrity of any particular
law or doctrine. (WOB 42)
8.16
Níst gardad hast-u19 ham rang-i-qidam gardad ‘adam,
Gar bar-áyad Ghayb-há az pardiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Life comes to naught, nothingness takes on eternity’s hues,
If the things unseen emerge from the veil of His enrapturing
Call.
This distich could hint at the reversal of the values brought by
the new Revelation. Bahá’u’lláh refers to this concept in the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
Behold, the “mystery of the Great Reversal in the Sign of
the Sovereign” hath now been made manifest ... How
many the outwardly pious who have turned away, and
how many the wayward who have drawn nigh,
exclaiming: “All praise be to Thee, O Thou the Desire of
the worlds!” In truth, it is in the hand of God to give
what He willeth to whomsoever He willeth, and to
withhold what He pleaseth from whomsoever He may
wish. He knoweth the inner secrets of the hearts and the
meaning hidden in a mocker’s wink. How many an
embodiment of heedlessness who came unto Us with
purity of heart have We established upon the seat of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Our acceptance; and how many an exponent of wisdom
have We in all justice consigned to the fire. We are, in
truth, the One to judge. He it is Who is the
manifestation of “God doeth whatsoever He pleaseth,”
and abideth upon the throne of “He ordaineth
whatsoever He chooseth.” (KA 75-6, para.157)
This verse is explained in the “Notes” as follows:
Bahá’u’lláh in one of His Tablets refers to the “symbol
and allusion” of the “mystery of the Great Reversal in
the Sign of the Sovereign.” He states: “Through this
reversal He hath caused the exalted to be abased and the
abased to be exalted,” and He recalls that “in the days of
Jesus, it was those who were distinguished for their
learning, the men of letters and religion, who denied
Him, whilst humble fishermen made haste to gain
admittance into the Kingdom.” (“Preface and Notes”
239n171)
8.17
Ma˙v-i-mu†laq gardad án-kash20 árzú’í dar dil21 ast,
Gar bi-bínad yik naẓar án shu‘liy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Craving hearts vanish into utter self-effacement,
If they catch one glimpse of the flame of His enrapturing
Call.
The first part of the distich is reminiscent of a distich by
Majdúd Saná’í (ca.1045–ca.1141) quoted by Bahá’u’lláh in the
Four Valleys:
Never the covetous heart (dil bá árzú) shall come to the
stealer of hearts,
Never the shrouded soul unite with beauty’s rose. (FV 60;
CV152)

Nightingales Are Inebriated
When the seeker meets the Beloved, he falls in love and love
“yieldeth no remedy but death, he walketh not save in the valley
of the shadow (vádíy-i-‘adam, literally valley of nothingness)”
(SV10; HV102). Therefore the lover must renounce his “covetous
heart,” that is his own lower self, to mirror forth the divine
attributes of the Beloved.
8.18
Kay tavánistí Masí˙ az gunbad-i-a‘lá gudhasht,
Gar na-búdí rah-bar-ash yik na‘riy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
How could have the Messiah crossed the heavenly vault,
Shouldn’t He have been guided by the roar of His
enrapturing Call?
This distich seemingly hints at the image of Jesus descended
from heaven, in which Jesus says: “For I came down from
heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent
me” (John 6:38, KJV). This reference is also present in other
passages. For example Bahá’u’lláh wrote in His Tablet to Pius
IX: “He, verily, hath again come down from Heaven even as He
came down from it the first time” (SLH 55, sec. 1, para.102, Súriy-i-
Haykal: Pope Pius IX). Jesus came down from heaven, guided by
the revelation of the Most Great Spirit. In another perspective,
it could hint at the image of a Jesus ascended into the Highest
Heaven through His ecstasy.
8.19
Kay tavánad ghayr-i-ú dar mulk-i-hastí pá-nihád,
Zan-kih báshad bas ghayúr án sha˙niy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
Besides Him, no one could set his foot into the world of
being,
So earnest is the watcher of His enrapturing Call.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The concept of the jealousy of God, the central element of this
verse, has been explained while commenting upon verse 7:
Any colour of strangeness (ghayríyyat) disappears from
the pages of the world,
If a breeze wafts, exhaling the perfume of the lock of His
enrapturing Call.
Sha˙nih means “A viceroy, vicegerent, representative,
lieutenant; head of the police; a prefect; a mayor, provost; an
ambassador; a peon or servant of a tax-gatherer” (Steingass 736)
and Henri Wilberforce-Clarke (1840-1905), an officer in the
British India corps, first translator of the Bústán of Sa’dí and of
the Sikandar Námih by Nízamí, translated it as “watchman”
(Óáfiẓ, Díván 158, “Ghazalyát,” no.64, v.10; Divan 54, “Ghazalyát,” no.47,
v.8). Therefore this verse could denote that the Most Great
Spirit — “the watchman of His enrapturing Call (sha˙niy-i-yá
Húy-i-ú)” — reveals the Oneness of God in the world of
Existence through the Manifestation of God, “He ... in Whose
name the standard of Divine Unity hath been planted upon the
Sinai of the visible and invisible worlds, proclaiming that there
is none other God but Me, the Peerless, the Glorious, the
Incomparable” (SLH 49, sec. 1, para.93, Súriy-i-Haykal). And thus the
Manifestation of God is the only One Who sets “his foot in the
world of being,” going beyond the barrier of otherness or
alterity (ghayríyyat).
8.20
Rang-i-hastí-rá na-bínad chashm-i-imkán, ay pisar,
Gar ravad bar ham damí án dídiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
No mortal eye could see any hue of existence, O son,
If, for an instant, the eye would close of His enrapturing
Call.

Nightingales Are Inebriated
This verse could hint that existence is kept in life by the Most
Great Spirit. Without it nothing would exist. This concept is
exposed by Bahá’u’lláh in the following words:
There can be no doubt whatever that if for one moment
the tide of His mercy and grace were to be withheld
from the world, it would completely perish. (GWB 68, sec.
XXVII, para.6)
Consider, for instance, the revelation of the light of the
Name of God, the Educator. Behold, how in all things
the evidences of such a revelation are manifest, how the
betterment of all beings dependeth upon it ... Were this
revelation to be withdrawn, all would perish. (GWB 189-
90, sec. XCIII, para.13, Commentary on a verse from Sa’dí)
I can have no doubt that should the holy breaths of Thy
loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful favor
cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe
over all created things, the entire creation would perish,
and all that are in heaven and on earth would be reduced
to utter nothingness. (PM 89, sec. 58, para.4)
It is the concept of continuous creation, typical of the Bahá’í
Faith, better explained in later Writings, as for example Law˙-i-
Óikmat. Bahá’u’lláh envisages a creation ruled by natural laws
which are expressions of the Word of God, intended both as
“the Cause which hath preceded the contingent world” and “the
Command of God which pervadeth all created things” (TB 140,
Law˙-i-Óikmat), that is, the creative impulse which brings into
existence physical reality, but also the universal law pervading
the entire creation.
8.21
Tishnagán, bar Salsabíl-i-quds-i-rabbání zaníd,
Kih shudih járí hamí án chashmiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
O thirsty ones, plunge into the holy, and sanctified waters,
As the fountain is flowing of His enrapturing Call.
The lovers are thirsty, tishnagán, plural of tishnih, “Thirsty,
parched with thirst; eager, greedy, insatiable” (Steingass 303), of
the Water of Life, which Bahá’u’lláh calls in this verse Salsabíl,
explained by Steingass (693) as “Name of a fountain in Paradise;
mellow wine; anything soft, tender, digestible.” Shoghi Effendi
translates Salsabíl-i-quds as “sanctified waters” (GWB 323, sec.
CLIII, para.1; Muntakhabátí 208). The lovers are here invited to allay
their thirst at the fountain of Revelation, here called chashmih,
“a fountain, source, spring” (Steingass 394). Bahá’u’lláh often
mentions the thirst of human beings and the capacity of the
Word of God to allay that thirst:
O banished and faithful friend! Quench the thirst
(‘a†ash) of heedlessness with the sanctified waters of My
grace, and chase the gloom of remoteness through the
morning-light of My Divine presence. (GWB 323, sec. CLIII,
para.1, Law˙-i-A˙mad bi-Fársí; Muntakhabátí 208)
Verily I say, the world is like the vapor in a desert, which
the thirsty (ßá˙ibán-i-‘atash) dreameth to be water and
striveth after it with all his might, until when he cometh
unto it, he findeth it to be mere illusion. (GWB 328-9, sec.
CLIII, para.8; Law˙-i-A˙mad bi-Fársí; Muntakhabátí 211)
Thou well knowest, O my God, my Best-Beloved, that
naught can quench the thirst (ẓamá’) I suffer in my
separation from Thee except the waters of Thy presence
... (PM 58, sec. 41, para.3; Munáját 44)
My remembrance of Thee, O my God, quencheth my
thirst (‘a†ash), and quieteth my heart ... (PM 195, sec. 114,
para.6; Munáját 132)
Out of the pure milk, drawn from the breasts of Thy
loving-kindness, give me to drink, for my thirst (al-

Nightingales Are Inebriated
a‘†ásh) hath utterly consumed me. (PM 234, sec. 145, para.1;
Munáját 157)
The attainment of this City quencheth thirst (‘a†ash)
without water, and kindleth the love of God without
fire. (KI 198, para.217; KMI153)
O Lord! Dire thirst (ẓamá’) hath seized us, and with Thee
are the soft-flowing waters of eternal life. (SLH 155, sec. 2,
para.41, Súriy-Ra’ís; Majmú‘iy-i-Alvá˙-i Mubárakih 101)
8.22
Darvísh, zín bísh ma-zan nár-i-ma‘ání dar jahán,22
Kih shudih yá Húy-i-ú áshuftiy-i-yá Húy-i-ú.
O Dervish, stop setting the fire of meanings to the world:
His enrapturing Call is entangled with His enrapturing Call.
Another maq†a‘, final verse, calling the poet to silence. At the
vision of the Beloved in love with Himself, the highest form of
love we as human beings can conceive, all things are silent. This
verse is reminiscent of many passages in the Bahá’í Writings
that describe the greatness of God’s revelation “whose power
hath caused the foundations of the mightiest structures to
quake, every mountain to be crushed into dust, and every soul
to be dumbfounded” (GWB 196, sec. XCVI, para.3):
In this day the breeze of God is wafted, and His Spirit
hath pervaded all things. Such is the outpouring of His
grace that the pen is stilled and the tongue is speechless.
(KI 180-1, para.197)
Reveal then Thyself, O Lord, by Thy merciful utterance
and the mystery of Thy divine being, that the holy
ecstasy of prayer may fill our souls — a prayer that shall
rise above words and letters and transcend the murmur
of syllables and sounds — that all things may be merged

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
into nothingness before the revelation of Thy splendor.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in BP 69)
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Anßárí, Khwájih ‘Abdu’lláh. Manázil al-sá’irín. Including Elal al-
maqámát, Íad maydán, and sections of the Tafsír. Edited by Serge
Laugier de Beaurecueil. Persian translation, introduction, and
notes by Ravan Farhadi. Kabul, 1976.
Bahá’u’lláh, Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá: Kitáb-i-Mubín, vol.1. 3rd edn.
Dundas, Ontario: Institute for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 1996.
———. Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
129 B.E. (1972–73); vol.4. Teheran: BPT, 133 B.E. (1976–77).
———. Chihár Vádí, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3, pp.140-57.
———. Commentary on a verse by Sa’dí, in Gleanings, pp.184-92.
———. Haft Vádí, in Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá, vol.3, pp.92-137.
———. Ishráqát (Splendours), in Tablets, pp.101-35.
———. Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih (Words of Paradise), in Tablets, pp. 57-
80.
———. Al-Kalimátu’l-Maknúnat. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Bahá’í-Brasil,
1995.
———. Kitáb-i-Musta†áb-i-ˆqán. Reprinted from the original edition,
Egypt, 1934. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
———. Law˙-i-A˙mad bih Fársí (Persian Tablet to A˙mad), in
Gleanings, pp.322-29, nos. CLII and CLIII.
———. Law˙-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq, in Gleanings, pp. 319-22.
———. Law˙-i-Dunyá (Tablet of the World), in Tablets, pp.83-97.
———. Law˙-i-Óikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), in Tablets, pp.137-52.
———. Law˙-i-Karmil (Tablet of Carmel), in Tablets, pp.3-5.
———. Law˙-i-Ri∂ván (Tablet of Ri∂ván), in Gleanings, pp.27-35.
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Alvá˙-i-Mubárakih. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1978.
———. Majmú‘iy-i-Áthár-i Qalam-i A‘lá [Collected Letters of
Bahá’u’lláh], vol. 30, Tehran: Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private
Printing (INBA). Private Printing, 1976.

Nightingales Are Inebriated
———. Munáját (Prayers and Meditations). Rio de Janeiro: Editora
Bahá’í–Brazil, 1981.
———. Múntakhabátí az Áthár-i-Óa∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1984.
———. “The Song of the Holy Mariner,” in Star of the West, vol. 13,
no.4 (17 May 1922), pp.75-77.
———. Súriy-i-Haykal (Sura of the Temple), in Summons, pp.3-137.
———. Súriy-i-Qamíß, in Gleanings, pp.10-11.
———. Súriy-i-Ra’ís (Tablet to Ra’ís), in Summons, pp.141-57.
Bausani, Alessandro. “Introduzione e commento,” in Il Corano, pp.
xvii-lxxix, 501-738.
———. “Nota introduttiva e note,” in Rûmî, Poesie mistiche, pp.5-41.
Burckhardt, Titus. Introduction to Sufism. Translated by D.M.
Matheson. Glasgow: Thornsons, 1995.
Bürgel, Joahnn Christoph. Il discorso è nave, il significato un mare.
Saggi sullamore e il viaggio nella poesia persiana medievale. A cura
di carlo Saccone. Roma: Carocci editore, 2006.
———. ‘“Speech is a ship and meaning the sea”: some formal aspects in
the ghazal poetry of Rúmí’, in Poetry and mysticism, pp.44-69.
Chebel, Malek. Dictionnaire des symboles musulmans: Rites, mystique
et civilisation. Paris: Albin Michel, 1995.
Chittick, William C. The Sufi Path of Love: The Spiritual Teachings
of Rumi. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1983.
———. Sufism: A Short Introduction. Oxford: Oneworld, 2000.
Corano, Il. Translation, introduction and commentary by Alessandro
Bausani. Florence: Sansoni, 1961.
During, Jean. “Samá‘,” in The Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Eckhart, Meister. Passion for creation: the earth-honoring spirituality
of Meister Eckhart, [introduction and commentaries by] Matthew
Fox. Rochester, Vt. : Inner Traditions, ca.2000.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Óáfiẓ, Shams ad-Dín. The Díván-i-Háfiz. Translated by H.
Wilberforce Clarke. Bethesda, Maryland: Ibex Publishers, 1997.
Available at http://www.archive.org/stream/thedivan02hafiuoft/
thedivan02hafiuoft_djvu.txt (accessed 19 August 2011).

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
———. The Divan of Hafiz. Teheran: Aban Book Publication, 1387
[2008-2009].
Ishráq Khavárí, ‘Abdu’l-Óamid. ed. Má’iday-i-Ásmání. A compilation
of Bahá’í Writings. 9 vols. Teheran: Mu’assisa Millí Ma†bu’át
Amrí, 129 BE (1972).
Izutzu, Toshihiko. Creation and the Timeless Order of Things: Essays
in Islamic Mystical Philosophy. Foreword by William C. Chittick.
Ashland, OR: White Cloud Press, 1994.
Jámí, Núr ad-Dín ‘Abdu’r-Ra˙mán. Diwan. Edited by Hashi Radi.
Teheran: Piruz, 1982.
Koran, The. Translated from the Arabic by John Meadows Rodwell.
Introduction by George Margoliouth. London: Everyman’s
Library, 1987.
Lambden, Stephen N. “Sinaitic Mysteries: Notes on Moses/Sinai
Motifs,” in Studies in Honour of the Late Hasan M Balyuzi, pp.
65-183.
Lane, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. London and
Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863–93. CD-Rom edition
published by Thesaurus Islamicus Foundation. Cairo: Tradigital,
2003.
Momen, Moojan. “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics,” in
Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi, pp.185-217.
Nicholson Reynold A. “Notes,” in Rúmí, Selected Poems, pp.197-330.
Nurbakhsh, Javad. Sufi Symbolism: The Nurbakhsh Encyclopedia of
Sufi Terminology (Farhang-e Nurbakhsh), vol. 16. London:
Khaniqahi-Nimatulláh Publications, 1986-2004.
“Preface and Notes,” in Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. xx-ix, 167-
249.
Rúmí, Jalálú’d-Dín. Díván-i-Shams. Available at
http://rira.ir/rira/php/?page=view&mod=classicpoems&obj=book
&id=51 (accessed 26 August 2011).
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 1: First Selection, Poems 1-200
translated from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press, 1968.
———. Mystical Poems of Rúmí 2: Second Selection, Poems 201-400
translated from the Persian by Arthur J. Arberry. Edited by Ehsan
Yarshater. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press, 1991.
———. Poesie mistiche, introduzione, traduzione, antologia critica e
note di Alessandro Bausani, Milano: Rizzoli, 1980.

Nightingales Are Inebriated
———. Selected Poems from the Divani Shamsi Tabriz. Edited and
translated by Reynold A. Nicholson. London: Cambridge
University Press, 1898.
Savi, Julio. Towards the Summit of Reality. An introduction to
Bahá’u’lláh’s Seven Valleys and Four Valleys. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2008.
Schimmel, Annemarie. Deciphering the Signs of God: A
Phenomenological Approach to Islam. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press, 1994.
Star of the West. The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world,
published from 1910 to 1935. Issues 1910 to 1924, RP 8 vols.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1978.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English
Dictionary Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met with
in Persian Literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.
Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi. Edited by M.
Momen. Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol.5. Los
Angeles: Kalimát, 1988.

NOTES
1 For a general introduction to this and other poems by Bahá’u’lláh see Julio
Savi, “Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian poems written before 1863,” Lights of Irfan,
volume 13 (2012), pp. 317-361.
2 (mast-and bulbulán) A poem composed by Bahá’u’lláh. The Persian text
used for this translation is published in Ishráq Khávarí, Má’iday-i-Ásmání
4:194-96. The poem also is published in Majmú’iy-i-Áthár 30:169-71. This
translation has been done with the precious assistance of Ms. Faezeh
Mardani Mazzoli, lecturer of Persian language at the University of
Bologna, translated by Julio Savi.
3 Another translation of this locution could be “His call of ‘O God’.”
4 Vámiq and ‘Adhrá, literally, the lover and the virgin, are two lovers of
Islamic poetry often mentioned together with Majnún and Laylí. The best-
known version of their story is that of the Persian poet Abu’l-Qásim
‘Unßúrí (d. ca. 1039).
5 See also “a member of a race of brutes in Swift’s Gulliver’s Travels who
have the form and all the vices of humans ... a boorish, crass, or stupid
person” (Merriam-Webster online); “One of an imaginary race of brutes

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

having the form of men in Gulliver’s Travels (1726) by Jonathan Swift ...
an uncouth or rowdy person” (Webster’s 2646).
6 Majmú’ih 30 writes Bulbulán mast-and.
7 Majmú’ih 30 writes az yik.
8 Majmú’ih 30 writes ján-i-’ushsháqán ham az yik.
9 Majmú’ih 30 writes rasad.
10 Majmú’ih 30 writes chú.
11 Majmú’ih 30 writes úftad.
12 Abu’l-Óassan ‘Alí ibn A˙mad ibn Salmán al-Kharaqáni or Shaykh Abu’l-
Óassan Kharaqáni (963–1033), sometimes written as Khirqání, is one of
the Persian Khurasani Sufi masters. ‘A††ár called him the King of the kings
of Sufi Masters.
13 Shaykh Abu Bakr Shiblí (861–946) is a famous Sufi born in Baghdad from a
Persian family. He was a disciple of al-Junayd.
14 Majmú’ih 30 writes bi-jahd-i-khíshtan.
15 See “Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein
the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat?” (2 Peter 3:12, KJB).
16 Majmú’ih 30 writes bi-shinavand az gúsh-i-khúd.
17 Majmú’ih 30 writes †áli’ ar áyad.
18 Majmú’ih 30 writes az.
19 Majmú’ih 30 writes hast.
20 Majmú’ih 30 writes án-kas.
21 Majmú’ih 30 writes sar.
22 Majmú’ih 30 writes Bísh az ín, Darvísh, ín tár-i-ma’ání-rá ma-zan, that is
“Stop playing, of Darvish, the lute of inner meanings.”

Tablet of Patience (Surih Íabr): Declaration of
Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics
Foad Seddigh
Abstract
This paper takes a closer look at Surih Íabr (Súriy-i-Íabr) — a
Tablet which is sometimes referred to by other names. This
Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh, which was revealed on the first day of
Ri∂ván 1863 and has great significance among the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, is the subject of study in this paper. In order to
better understand the contents of this Tablet, it is helpful to
review events in the life of Bahá’u’lláh during the last few weeks
prior to his exile to Istanbul (Constantinople) and Adrianople
(Edirne).
Íabr is an Arabic word meaning patience, and Surih Íabr
(Súriy-i-Íabr) derives its name from the attribute of ‘patience,’
which is the starting theme of this Tablet. In life, troubles might
strike a person as a test for which patience is needed. In such
occasions, one needs to be steadfast and loyal to one’s Lord.
This paper explores the relationship between troubles in the
path of God, divine tests and steadfastness during times of
tests. Ayyúb (Job) is one of the prophets of Israel who has
exhibited these qualities, having lived a life synonymous with
patience. Bahá’u’lláh, while stating the story of the life of
Ayyúb (Job) in this Tablet, writes some passages which may be
interpreted as a statement of His own revelation from the
tongue of Ayyúb. These statements are identified in this paper.
In the Tablet, the life history of Ayyúb is briefly reviewed.
Ayyúb is also a name which has been conferred by Bahá’u’lláh

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
on an individual who showed the attribute of patience in the
path of God and was steadfast in allegiance to his Lord, the Báb.
The Tablet immortalized the life of Óájí Mu˙ammad-Taqí
Nayrízí, who was no longer living when the Tablet was revealed.
This paper touches upon the sacrifices of this devoted believer.
Significance of the devotion and heroic acts of Siyyid Ya˙yá
Dárábi, Va˙íd, in Nayríz has been discussed, and offering his
life for his beloved, the Exalted One, the Primal Point, has been
compared to the martyrdom of the Imám Óusayn, to which a
reference has been made in the Tablet. Similarities between the
lives of these two spiritual towers have been drawn.
The Tablet covers a range of topics such as: Seal of
Prophets, Beholding the Countenance of God, Appearance of
God in the Shelter of Clouds, attaining the presence of God,
Great Announcement, the Hour, Day of Resurrection, the
Trumpet Call, and clarification of other puzzling references in
the past scriptures, particularly the holy Qur’án, etc. Most of
these topics have been dealt with in greater details, in books
such as the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, Book of Certitude, and Gems of
Divine Mysteries, which were revealed before this Tablet.
However, topics such as these which are presented in the Tablet,
important as they may seem, may not constitute the primary
significance of this Tablet. Rather, in my view, the primary
significance of this Tablet lies in clarifying the manner of
announcement of Bahá’u’lláh’s station, when He left Baghdád,
and in references made to His station as the Promised One of
the Dispensation of the Báb. The Tablet does not include
explicit phrases stating: I am ‘Him Whom God shall make
manifest’ — phrases which would clearly proclaim and
pronounce that He is “the Promised One of the Bayán.”
However, in the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh announces that a new Light
is being shed upon the world and a new Song is being sung. It
would appear the time may not have been ripe for making the
announcement openly, clearly and widely. This paper also
discusses and analyzes the Tablet’s references to His station and
the new religion of God. There are several passages in the Tablet

Tablet of Patience
which clearly indicate that those pure souls who expected Him
to put a claim to a station needed to wait and be patient. He
also stresses that once He has made this announcement, it is not
proper for them to hesitate for a moment, and if they stop for a
moment, despite their long patience, the pronouncement of
‘patient one’ can no longer be applied to them.
The Tablet also makes reference to the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá. In
this paper, Qayyúmu’l-Asmá has been discussed and the
references made in the Tablet regarding ‘two names’, ‘two
dawning places’, ‘two mysteries’ , etc. have been traced and
identified in Qayyúmu’l-Asmá. The Tablet does not explicitly
mention the name of the arch enemy of the ‘Light of God’, the
half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh, Ya˙yá Azal. However, the Tablet
includes several references to Ya˙yá such as the “Calf” and
“Sámirí”. These references are identified and explained. At the
end of the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh bids farewell to the friends in
elevating and exalting words, in a manner which could be
interpreted that as a result of this separation, something
profound is bound to happen. However, the Tablet does not
pinpoint the nature of the occurrence. This may be considered
the announcement of His station as the Promised One of the
Bayán in an unequivocal manner in Adrianople — an action
which led to the rebellion of His half-brother, Ya˙yá Azal.
In this paper, Bahá’u’lláh’s parting words and their meanings
are also analyzed. The Tablet includes a prophecy and warning
regarding the ‘birds of darkness’ which will start flying in the
absence of the light — a reference which may be considered the
‘Light of His Countenance’. These passages have been identified
and their meanings explored.
Introduction and Background
In the few years prior to Bahá’u’lláh’s departure from ‘Iráq,
three processes were unfolding. (1) The first was the increasing
reverence which the Bábís felt for and showed towards
Bahá’u’lláh as well as the great respect with which some high

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
ranking officials of the Government and Iranians treated Him.
(2) The second was the envy of the half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh,
Mírzá Ya˙yá, the Nominee of the Báb, whose jealousy and lust
for leadership was burning within his heart and consuming him
day by day. Mírzá Ya˙yá could manage to attract to himself
only those corrupt Bábís who desired leadership for themselves,
and whose selfish inclinations prompted them to lust after the
benefits of the material world. (3) The third was the enmity and
hatred towards Bahá’u’lláh which was initiated and aggravated
by the Muslim clergy, and accepted blindly by those fanatical
elements who considered that He had violated the established
norms of Islám.
In order to demonstrate the particulars of the first process,
we may recall two stories from this period — for details, one
may refer to the history books: Bahá’u’lláh King of Glory, or
The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. I. The first story is
concerning Siyyid Ismá’íl of Zavárih who, after hearing some
thrilling words of spiritual significance from Bahá’u’lláh, was so
intoxicated with His love that he was unable to restrain himself
from his strong desire to leave the material world.1 The second
story concerns the incident when both Mullá Íádiq-i-Khurásání
and Nabíl-i-Akbar were in the House of Bahá’u’lláh, when
suddenly He entered the room where they were sitting. Mullá
Íádiq instantly prostrated himself before Bahá’u’lláh. After
Bahá’u’lláh withdrew from the room, Nabíl-i-Akbar being
conscious of the great standing that Mullá Íádiq had in the Bábí
community, felt that Mullá Íádiq’s humility towards Bahá’u’lláh
was quite inappropriate and protested in strong language. Mullá
Íádiq’s response was: “You don’t know Him.”2 These two
stories were not isolated instances, and one can recount many
more which clearly show the standing of Bahá’u’lláh in the Bábí
community. Despite this, Bahá’u’lláh did not deem the time ripe
to lay bare His own station, and the Fire which had been kindled
in His soul. He was actually trying to conceal this Fire.
Bahá’u’lláh has mentioned that the light within Him could show
dimly beyond seventy thousand veils (in some other writings He

Tablet of Patience
mentions a thousand veils) enwrapped around Him in order to
cover this Fire and Light.
The second process is a direct result of the respect of the
Bábí community towards Bahá’u’lláh, which produced envy and
jealously in the heart of Mírzá Ya˙yá, who was devoid of any
spiritual qualities himself. This inadequacy made him incapable
of instilling spiritual qualities in others. This situation led to his
jealously and ill-feeling towards Bahá’u’lláh.
The third process which had derived its intensity from the
first process, but in an opposite direction, hoped to extinguish
that Fire combining all the forces of opposition from the
mischief-makers. It included the corrupt cleric known as
“Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Óusayn ˇihrání,” the Consul General of Iran in
Baghdád, the Persian Ambassador to the Government of
Ottoman Empire, the Iranian Foreign Minister and his
counterpart in Istanbul, and finally two powerful monarchs of
the time. These combined forces of opposition led to the
decision to banish Bahá’u’lláh and His companions from ‘Iráq
to a remote land beyond the Iranian borders.
On the other hand, the exile from ‘Iráq was the intervention
of a divinely ordained decree to partially remove the veils which
had concealed the Spiritual Light within Bahá’u’lláh, a Light that
had illumined the horizon of ‘Iráq and had dazzled the eyes of
so many believers who gathered around him, and had become
vivified and sanctified from the stains of this world. This was at
a time when the Faith of the Báb was on the verge of extinction
as a result of the heavy blows dealt by the combined forces of
the government and clerics. So, the departure of Bahá’u’lláh
from ‘Iráq was as a result of the combination of both divinely
ordered decree and the forces of opposition. It has been
recorded that Bahá’u’lláh finally left the “Most Great House” in
Baghdád in the afternoon of Wednesday, 22 April 1863 and
crossed the river Tigris by boat with only a few of his family
members around him. He stayed in the garden of Najíb Páshá
for twelve days in order to make preparations for the long

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
journey ahead, and also to say good-bye to a large number of
visitors. He had arrived in Baghdád, on April 8, 1853 and
resided in ‘Iráq for ten (solar) years and fourteen days.
Tablet of Job and Its Particulars
On the first day of His stay in the garden of Najíb Páshá,
known as the Garden of Ri∂ván, Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Tablet
of the Medina of Patience or Tablet of the Secured City of
Patience. In numerous instances in this Tablet, He refers to the
Fire and Light within Him and encourages his companions to
explore it and to approach it — though it is not an all-out
declaration of His Mission. His “public declaration” took place
a year later in Adrianople (Edirne). This Tablet is quite lengthy
and is entirely in Arabic. There is no authorized translation of
this Tablet made into English yet. However, there is a
provisional translation made by Dr. Khazeh Fananapazir which
is being used in this paper. One can find this work in the web
site of the Bahá’í Library Online, www.bahai-library.com, under
the heading of Provisional Translations.3 A few sentences or
phrases of the Tablet quoted in this paper are the translation of
the present author; these are identified by an asterisk: *.
Start of the Tablet
The Tablet starts in the following manner:
This is the City of Patience. Strive ye to enter it, O
concourse of the patient ones!
In His name, the Exalted One, He Who is the Most
Exalted
This is the remembrance of God in the City of Patience
regarding Job, Our servant; Whom We sheltered under
the shade of that Holy Tree planted in His heart, to
Whom We demonstrated the fire ignited in His Own
Essence….

Tablet of Patience
This Tablet is also known by other names such as: Súriy-i-Íabr,
Tablet of Job, Tablet of Íabr, Surih Íabr, Lawh-i-Ayyúb. It was
revealed in the honor of Óájí Mu˙ammad-Taqí surnamed Ayyúb
who was not alive at the time of the revelation of the Tablet.
Hereafter, in this paper, we will refer to this Tablet as Surih
Íabr.
Medina of Patience: the City of Patience
Medina is an Arabic word meaning “city” which is protected
and fortified, making it safe to inhabit because it is guarded
against attackers and invaders. So the “Medina of Patience”
conveys the concept of a dwelling-place of patience which is
safe and secure. In other words, it conveys the idea that
dwelling in patience provides some security for one’s soul.
Bahá’u’lláh has revealed a number of tablets in which He invites
people to enter the Medina of the theme of the tablet.
Examples: Tablet of Medina of Unity of God, and Tablet of
Medina of Good Pleasure of God.
The Exalted One
The word Exalted and its derivations (exalted means “high”,
“lofty”) is one of the Names of God. In Arabic it is A‘lá.
Believers matched the number for the name of the Báb, “‘Alí
Mu˙ammad” which has the numerical value of 202 in the Abjad
system, with “Rabb” which means “Lord”, and called Him
“Rabb-i-A‘lá.” Most often in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá whenever there is a reference made to the “Exalted
Lord” or Exalted One”, or “Exalted”, it refers to His Holiness
the Báb. ‘Alí, which is the first name of the Báb, is also a
derivation from the same word, meaning “Exalted,” and
Mu˙ammad, which is the second part of His name, means
“Praised”.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Remembrance of God
In the Holy Qur’án, the word “Remembrance” or “Calling to
Mind” is a reference to the Qur’án itself and also to the Prophet
Mu˙ammad. In this Holy Dispensation, the Báb has referred to
Himself as “Remembrance of God”. Bahá’u’lláh has referred to
the Báb as the “Most Great Remembrance of God.”
The Burning Tree and Sacred Spot
Divine Lote Tree planted in His heart, and made Him to
witness the Fire which is ignited and sheds its radiance
This part of the Tablet is also a reference to the Tree which
gives light and is burning. The historical reference for the
“Tree” and “Fire” is the story of the prophet Moses who saw a
fire from a distance and when approached it and came near it,
he found a tree which was burning but the fire was not
consuming it. The tree has been referred to as the “Divine Lote
Tree”, “The Tree which is neither of the East nor of the West”,
“Sadratu’l-Muntahá”, “Divine and Holy Tree”. They have been
interpreted as being the Word of God within the Manifestation
of God.
In the Tablet there is a reference to “the Sacred Spot” and
“the Tree” and “the Fire”. These are used quite frequently in the
Writings of this Holy Dispensation, and in the Qur’án as well.
As an example, consider this verse of Qur’án:
And when he reached it, he was called from the right side
of the valley in the blessed field, from the tree: O Moses!
Lo! I, even I, am Alláh, the Lord of the Worlds. (Surih Al-
Qasas, Surih 28, Verse 30)
The above verse is related to the story of Moses. Now, we may
take a look at the verse in the Tablet: “We called Job from this
sacred Spot whose environs are sanctified with this call, ‘Verily,
He is God, Thy Lord and the Lord of all things. He is All-

Tablet of Patience
Powerful over all things, the Self-Subsisting One.’” There are
great similarities between these two expressions as follows: “The
Spot” is that same place where Moses stood and was “the right
side of the valley in the blessed field” which is a reference to the
realm of “Manifestation of God” appearing within Him and
within other Manifestations of God. The Fire may be taken as
the Word of God which is expressed by the Manifestation of
God.
Job, the Prophet
Noah’s flood is but the measure of the tears I have shed,
and Abraham’s fire an ebullition of My soul. Jacob’s
grief is but a reflection of My sorrows, and Job’s
afflictions a fraction of my calamity. (Qasídiy-i-Varqá’iyyih,
The Ode of Dove)
The Tablet starts with the explanation of the life of Job. Job
is one of the most mysterious figures in the Bible. The era in
which Job lived, the location of his native land and his teachings
are all shrouded in mystery. Some Jewish scholars even have
gone so far as to deny his existence and consider his life as a
fable. Due to the fact that his book and life story appear in the
Old Testament, and in the light of references made to him in the
New Testament, one can consider him as one of the prophets,
but not within the religion of Moses. The Qur’án and Islám
regard Him a prophet. On the basis of Islám, which brought the
latest spiritual teachings to mankind before the Teachings of the
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, there is no doubt regarding Job’s identity
as a Prophet of God. His life story is one of patience and is
associated with gratitude to whatever comes one’s way, whether
it bode well or ill. Certainly Job demonstrated this quality.
Bahá’u’lláh has chosen Job in the tablet of “Medina of
Patience” to teach us some spiritual truths, while recalling the
events of his life, based mostly on the Islamic traditions. If we
look carefully, some of those qualities and events match
Bahá’u’lláh’s life; He uses the story of the biblical Job as the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
basis to expound His own message. Also, we should remember
that this Tablet was revealed in the honor of Óájí Mu˙ammad-
Taqí of Nayríz who endured great hardships in the path of his
Lord and was no longer alive at the time of the revelation of
this tablet.
From the Book of Job in the Old Testament, chapter 1,
verses 1-3, it is stated:
There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job;
and that man was blameless, upright, fearing God, and
turning away from evil. And seven sons and three
daughters were born to him. His possessions also was
7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, 500 female
donkeys, and very many servants; so that man was the
greatest of all the men of the east.4
And chapter 1, verses 8-10, from the same book:
And the Lord said to Satan, “Have you considered My
servant Job? For there is no one like him in the earth, a
blameless and upright man, fearing God and turning
away from evil.” Then Satan answered the Lord, and
said, “Does Job fear God for nothing? Hast thou not
made a hedge about him and about his house and all that
he has, on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his
hands, and his possessions have increased in the land…”5
After all his substance and health were taken away from him,
he thanked his Lord; chapter 1, verses 20-22, from the same
book:
Then Job arose, and tore his robe, and shaved his head,
and he fell to the ground, and worshipped. And he said,
‘Naked I came from my mother’s womb. And naked shall
I return there. The LORD gave and the Lord has taken
away. Blessed be the name of the Lord.’ Through all this
Job did not sin, nor did he blame God.6

Tablet of Patience
Then God restores wealth to Job after had taken away from
him, chapter 42: verses 10-12 from the same book:
And the Lord restored the fortunes of Job when he
prayed for his friends, and the Lord increased all that
Job had twofold. Then all his brothers, and all his sisters,
and all who had known him before, came to him and they
ate bread with him in his house, and they consoled him
and comforted him for all the evil that the Lord had
brought on him. And each one gave him one piece of
money, and each a ring of gold. And the Lord blessed the
latter days of Job more than his beginning, and he had
14,000 sheep, and 6,000 camels, and a 1,000 yoke of
oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys.7
Major Themes of the Tablet
We may identify nine major themes in the Tablet and nearly
one hundred themes which can be considered as secondary
themes, as well as many other references which require
reflection and elaboration. While any of the large number of
themes could serve as the focus for a study, we list some of
these themes below:
1. Life of Job and how He endured calamities,
2. Patience and the reward for patient ones,
3. The events of Nayríz and sacrifice of the believers and
Va˙íd,
4. Fundamental religious truths: First and Last, resurrection,
day of Judgments, etc.,
5. References to religious leaders and divines,
6. References to the statements of the Báb concerning
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation,
7. References regarding His own revelation,
8. References to the Calf, Sámirí, Satan, and Birds of Night,

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
9. Farewell and Separation.
In this paper, we will discuss themes 1, 2, 5, 7, 8 and will briefly
consider themes 3, 6 and 9. Theme number 4, despite its
significance, and the number of pages devoted to this theme in
the Tablet, will not be considered here.
Patience and Being Thankful under Calamities
The life of Job is an embodiment of endurance under
calamities and being content with whatever befell him in the
path of God, while exhibiting contentment with the will of God.
In the Tablet Bahá’u’lláh states:
Loss engulfed Him as had been ordained by the Mighty,
the Self-Subsisting One. We burnt what He had planted
by the hands of the angels of God’s command and
everything was utterly lost. When We had cleansed Him
of earthly ornaments and material pollution, and had
purified Him of physical possessions, then, as a further
test, We caused the angels of divine wrath to blow
poisonous air on His skin, making His body weaken, His
temple tremble, and His limbs quiver so much that no
portion of His being was left uncovered by wounds, and
yet, in all these states, His gratitude increased daily. He
remained patient and did not complain. We thus
accounted Him of those who trust and are patient and
grateful.
The book of Job, in minute details, describes how
misfortunes struck Job. However, it does not discuss why these
troubles are essential for spiritual growth. It is left entirely to
the reader of this book to deduce it for himself. However,
Bahá’u’lláh reveals in the Tablet that these difficulties are tests
and no one can claim rightly to be a Servant of God and lover
of God if he does not pass the tests. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh
states that:

Tablet of Patience
1. “O peoples of the earth! Be patient and persevering in the
path of God and do not sorrow about that which will
befall you in these “Days of the Spirit”.
2. “Soon ye shall see the recompense of the patient ones in
the transcendent and holy Garden:
•  In truth God has created a Paradise in the retreats of
immortality and has named it “patience”. Its name was
treasured in the immaculate treasures of God up to the
present Day. And in it was ordained what was not
ordained in all other gardens and We have at this
moment unveiled it for you and caused it to be
remembered by you as a mercy on Our part to all the
worlds. And in this paradise there are rivers of the
providence of God and God has forbidden it from
anyone except those who have persevered in calamities
seeking thereby the good pleasure of God. None shall
enter these gardens except such as have not perverted
the bounty of God in themselves and flew with the
wings of might in the atmosphere of patience.
•  These are they who have been long-suffering in all
tribulations and the more the tribulations increased
their love for their Lord waxed greater and with their
entire being they turned to the exalted and holy One.
•  The ecstasies of desire grew intense in their hearts and
the breaths of enthusiasm became great in their being so
much so and they gave of their wealth and they gave all
that vouchsafed by God to them and in all those states
they were grateful to their Lord and they did not seek
help from any one and God inscribed the names of the
patient ones in His holy and irrevocable tablets.”
3. “Truly blessed is the one who arrays himself with the
garment of patience and equanimity and who does not
change in afflictions and whose footsteps do not slip when
the tempests of wrath blow and remains acquiescent at all
times and relies on God at all times”

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
4. “O People of the Bayan! Be patient in these passing days
and do not complain that your abject ornaments have been
lost and do not bemoan of the afflictive trials that have
been ordained in the Mighty Scrolls of God.”
5. “Further know ye that for all good deeds there is ordained
a limited reward in the Book of God with the exception of
patience. This is the point that was made by God unto
Muhammad, the Apostle of God. ‘Those who patiently
persevere will truly receive a reward without measure.’ …”
6. “Further know ye that God has ordained patience to be the
garment of all the Messengers and no Prophet or
Messenger has been sent but his temple has been ordained
with the robe of patience. Thus has been taken God’s
Covenant with every Prophet sent by Him.”
7. “It behoveth in the beginning for the patient person:
•  to persevere in himself so that he will withhold himself
from all wickedness, evil, and desires, and from all that
God has forbidden in His Book and so will his name be
inscribed in the Tablets as a patient one.
•  And further he shall be persevering despite the
afflictions that shall descend on him in the path of his
Fashioner and that he be not shaken when the
tempestuous winds of divine decree blow and when the
ocean of God’s destiny billows in the dominion of His
irrevocable Plan and that he remain steadfast in the
Faith of God .
•  And further that he should be patient with what the
friends of God bring upon him and that he should be
forbearing with the believers for the love of God and
the pleasure of His Religion.”
As stated in these passages, calamities in the path of God are
spiritual tests and that is why God sent these troubles to Job.
Five years before revealing this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh revealed in
His Hidden Words a number of passages regarding calamities
which we should regard inwardly as light and life:

Tablet of Patience
“O SON OF MAN! For everything there is a sign. The
sign of love is fortitude under My decree and patience
under My trials.” [HW]
“O SON OF MAN! The true lover yearneth for
tribulation even as doth the rebel for forgiveness and the
sinful for mercy.” [HW]
“O SON OF MAN! If adversity befalls thee not in My
path, how canst thou walk in the ways of them that are
content with My pleasure? If trials afflict thee not in thy
longing to meet Me, how wilt thou attain the light in thy
love for My beauty?” [HW]
“O SON OF MAN! My calamity is My providence,
outwardly it is fire and vengeance, but inwardly it is
light and mercy. Hasten thereunto that thou mayest
become an eternal light and an immortal spirit. This is
My command unto thee, do thou observe it.” [HW]
Upheaval of Nayríz
The major theme with which the Tablet starts is the life of
Job who was patient under tribulations and God’s decree.
Essentially, the three themes in the Tablet (the life of Job,
tribulations, and patience) all served the purpose of introducing
the events in Nayríz. The embodiment of patience is Óájí
Mu˙ammad-Taqí whose virtues Bahá’u’lláh has recounted and
extoled in this Tablet. He is a native of Nayríz, a small town to
the south east of Shíráz at a distance of about one hundred and
fifty km. Nayríz is very close to, and in the proximity of,
another small town called “Dáráb”. Were it not for Va˙íd,
Nayríz would have been forgotten by historians, in the same
manner as has been the fate of many other small towns in the
world. If we refer to the text of the Tablet, we find that many
blessings are conferred on this land, its people, its vegetation,
and its air. It is clear then that Nayríz has a unique position in
the history of the world.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Dáráb is the birth place of Va˙íd (Yazd also has been
mentioned), whose given name is Ya˙yá. By the virtue of the
fact that he was from the lineage of Mu˙ammad, his full name
was Siyyid Ya˙yá Dárábi. Va˙íd’s father was an eminent clergy
and a man of great knowledge and was a fellow-pilgrim at the
time of the pilgrimage of the Báb. The Báb has honored him by
making mention of him in the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá. At the time of
the declaration of the Báb, Va˙íd’s father was living in one of
the western cities of Iran. At this time, Siyyid Ya˙yá Dárábí had
reached a degree of knowledge and fame in the capital city of
Iran which resulted in Mu˙ammad Sháh having great confidence
in him. The monarch of the time charged him with the
responsibility of travelling to Shíráz, in order to investigate the
message of the Báb. It is stated that he had three interviews with
the Báb, which are well documented, after which he became a
firm believer. For further details refer to the Dawn Breakers.8
The Báb revealed a commentary on the Surih of Kawthar (one of
the surihs of Qur’án) for him.
The following text is an extract from A Traveler’s Narrative,
a brief history of the Faith by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
When the above-mentioned Siyyid arrived at Shíráz he
interviewed the Báb three times. In the first and second
conferences questioning and answering took place; in the
third conference he requested a commentary on the Súrih
called Kawthar, and when the Báb, without thought or
reflection, wrote an elaborate commentary on the
Kawthar in his presence, the above-mentioned Siyyid was
charmed and enraptured with Him, and straightaway,
without consideration for the future or anxiety about
the results of this affection, hastened to Burújird to his
father Siyyid Ja’far, known as Kashfí, and acquainted
him with the matter. And, although he was wise and
prudent and was wont to have regard to the
requirements of the time, he wrote without fear or care a
detailed account of his observations to Mírzá Lutf-’Alí

Tablet of Patience
the chamberlain in order that the latter might submit it
to the notice of the late king, while he himself journeyed
to all parts of Persia, and in every town and station
summoned the people from the pulpit-tops in such wise
that other learned doctors decided that he must be mad,
accounting it a sure case of bewitchment.9
The Báb gave him the title of Va˙íd. This word numerically is
equivalent to the number of his first name, Ya˙yá, and means
“unique.” Bahá’u’lláh in the Book of Certitude (Kitáb-i-ˆqán)
pronounced him the unique and peerless: “Among them also was
Siyyid Ya˙yá, that unique and peerless figure of his age”. [KI
223] Also, the Báb had testified to his unique qualities in His
Dalá’il-i-Sab’ih (Seven Proofs): “high attainments in the realm of
science and philosophy.” In short, Va˙íd was an accomplished
cleric and man of great capacity with unbounded love for the
Báb.
For the spiritual exploits of Va˙íd and further explanation
and details, refer to Dawn Breakers10 and Awakening.11 While
the Báb was still imprisoned in a fortress in the mountains of
Ádhirbayján (in the fortress of Chihríq), Va˙íd travelled to the
south eastern city of Yazd and made an open proclamation of
the Faith of the Báb to the people of that city who responded to
his call instantly. This caused much uproar in the city. Because
of his public proclamation of the Cause of the Báb, great
agitations and open confrontation ensued, which placed his life
and the lives of many others in great danger. Therefore, Va˙íd
had to leave the city of Yazd for his native land of Dáráb and
eventually for Nayríz. The time of his arrival to this area was
about two months before the martyrdom of the Báb, on 27 May
1850.12
The conflagration at Nayríz is a direct result of the courage,
faith and self-sacrifice of Va˙íd with his public proclamation of
the New Cause of God to the public at large in the villages and
towns on the way from Yazd to Nayríz. As a result of his
efforts, thousands of the inhabitants of Nayríz and the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
surrounding villages and towns embraced the Cause of God,
including Óájí Mu˙ammad-Taqí, whose name has been
mentioned in the Tablet and in whose honor the Tablet was
revealed. The conversion of a large number of people to the
Cause of the Báb led to strong action by the governor of the
town, Zaynu’l-Ábidín Khán, and eventually confrontation
between the companions of Va˙íd and the army of the
governor. The army surrounded the believers who had gathered
in an abandoned fort outside of the town (fort of Khájih), and
started establishing fortification of the fort for their own
defense. Therefore, the fort of Khájih became the storm-center
of the conflagration in Nayríz. It is stated that Óájí
Mu˙ammad-Taqí was quite wealthy, and he decided to sacrifice
his wealth by providing provisions for those who had taken
refuge in the fort. Despite heavy artillery assistance which the
governor of Nayríz received from the Governor of the province
of Fárs, Prince Fírúz Mírzá, his troops were defeated three times
by Bábís gathered in the fort.
Since they realized that they could not win this conflict with
the sheer force of guns and soldiers, the Governor and his men
decided to resort to treachery and craftiness. They made a
solemn oath on the holy Qur’án and sealed it to indicate that
they would honor their statements and asked Va˙íd to visit their
army headquarters. Va˙íd was well aware of their intention, but
due to his respect for their oath on the Qur’án, he said that he
would go there to see what God had decreed. After his arrival in
the army camp the Prince and his men showed initial respect
towards Va˙íd. However, this was a scheme, as eventually, they
laid their hands on Va˙íd and killed him. Many of the believers
in the fort were also killed and the women and children captured
and their properties plundered. In particular the governor
captured and imprisoned Óájí Mu˙ammad-Taqí (along with
several others) in the basement of his residence and tortured him
for nine months.13 At the end, the Óájí gained his freedom in a
miraculous way and after recovering from his wounds and
gaining his health he went to Baghdád to meet Bahá’u’lláh.

Tablet of Patience
The following are extracts from the Tablet regarding Va˙íd,
believers and Nayríz:
o Days passed until …. a group of people from the town …
gathered around Va˙íd
o These people:
• Obeyed the commands of God,
• Circled around his cause,
• Sacrificed their wealth,
• Gave up everything they had of the treasures of this
world
• Were not frightened of anyone
• Their hearts were like iron in the aim to render
victory to God,
• No blame from the blamer attached to them, no
objection prevented them,
• Rather they were exalted in the cities of God like holy
and uplifted ensigns.
o Chieftain of the army of tyranny: was the most wicked
man of the earth,
o He chooses to confer His mercy upon those who have
detached themselves of all earthly things,
o If the station of anyone of you (believers Nayríz) should
become clear all the peoples will give their lives in their
desire for this station created by the hand of God. But
this station is hidden from the eyes of men
o They decided to send to Va˙íd an envoy with a tongue of
falsehood and deception
o When they were impotent to defeat the party of God and
His loved ones, they engaged in many deliberations and
arranged a deception

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
o We admit that you (Va˙íd) have the dignity and honor
above us
o Address of Va˙íd to the chiefs of army and his wise
counsel to them and his reasoning with them:
• If you admit that I am a descendent of the Prophet of
God, why have you attacked me?
• Why have you encircled our people?
• Why have you turned away from the cause of God
and rebelled against him?
• O People! Fear God
• Do not perpetrate mischief in God’s earth
• Do not abandon the true religion of God behind your
backs
• Fear God who has created you and nourished you
• The world will pass away, your armies will disappear
• Consider what happened to the nations of the past
• I am nothing but a servant who has believed in God
• If you are not pleased with me, I shall travel away
from you
• Fear God and do not shed the blood of His lovers
• Do not take in vain the property of people
• Do not disbelieve after your claims of belief.
Some quotes from the Tablet concerning the episode of
Nayríz are given below:
Those who assist God with their wealth and their lives
and who are patient under all conditions of hardship for
the purpose of attracting God’s good pleasure these are
the ones who shall attain victory for all eternity. Such
people even if they are killed or burned because they
have been created of the spirit shall always soar in the

Tablet of Patience
spiritual atmosphere through God’s permission. These
shall not attend to their bodies in this world and these
seek sufferings in the path of God as a sinner seeks
forgiveness, as a babe seeks the breast milk given to it by
the mercy of God thus does the nightingale remind you
with spiritual recollections so that men may detach
themselves from their own self, their money and wealth
and to return to the holy and clear presence.…
O people of Nayríz! Thank ye God your creator who
vouchsafed His bounty upon you, preferred you upon
the peoples of the earth, honored you with attaining His
presence, made you aware of His own self, nourished
you from the fruits of the Tree of paradise at a time
when all were depriving themselves of it. God gave you
the bounty of appreciating His Days, God sent you the
breezes of holiness and turned you to the right hand of
divine unity and enabled you to get close to the holy
Vale. Thus does God vouchsafe unto whomever He
wishes and He chooses to confer His mercy upon those
who have detached themselves of all earthly things. Thus
cheer yourselves and pride yourselves over all the
peoples of the earth. Know you that God has written
your names upon Holy Tablets and has ordained for you
a praiseworthy station in paradise. I swear by God! If the
station of anyone of you should become clear all the
peoples will give their lives in their desire for this station
created by the hand of God. But this station is hidden
from the eyes of men that the good may be distinguished
from the corrupt and thus does God test the people in
this world that what is in their hearts may become
manifest and you have been a witness to all that.…
Blessed are ye the people of Nayríz in that you are
patient in your suffering and afflictions in these times
ordained by God and in all you heard with your ears and
as all you witnessed soon God will reward you with the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
best reward and He shall give you what shall be pleasing
to your souls and what shall establish your names in his
hidden and holy Book. Strive therefore that you do not
waste your fortitude with complaints and be ye
acquiescent with what God has ordained unto you and
what He shalt ordain in the future.…
It is a historical fact that the atrocities in Nayríz against the
believers did not end in 1850 with the martyrdom of Va˙íd and
his companions. There were two other episodes of great
proportion in which hundreds of lives were lost, one in 1852/53
and another one in 1909. However, in between these major
episodes, animosities existed at much lower intensity. For this
reason, statements in the Tablet reflect this reality. Baha’u’llah
refers to the persecution of the believers in Nayríz as something
which happened year after year. For details refer to the book
Awakening.
References to Religious Leaders, Divines and Learned
Bahá’u’lláh, in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán and other tablets, has
rebuked religious leaders for a variety of charges. This includes
lack of understanding the Scriptures, interpreting the Scriptures
without having authority according to their own limited
understanding, greed and attachment to the worldly desires,
misleading people for their own benefits and killing the
Manifestations of God, etc. The Báb was also critical of the
learned men of religion. He wrote:
It is recorded in a tradition that of the entire concourse
of the Christians no more than seventy people embraced
the Faith of the Apostle of God. The blame falleth upon
their doctors, for if these had believed, they would have
been followed by the mass of their countrymen. Behold,
then, that which hath come to pass! The learned men of
Christendom are held to be learned by virtue of their
safeguarding the teaching of Christ, and yet consider

Tablet of Patience
how they themselves have been the cause of men’s failure
to accept the Faith and attain unto salvation! [SWB 123]
In this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh has called learned men the worst
kind of people, to the extent that the quintessence of evil runs
away from them. If we study the schemes of Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-
Óusayn ˇihrání, and troubles that he created for Bahá’u’lláh in
Baghdád which led to His exile, this would clearly demonstrate
why such a pronouncement has been made against “learned
men” as a whole. Bahá’u’lláh in other tablets has referred to this
learned mujtahid as: “scoundrel,” the “schemer,” the “wicked
one,” who “drew the sword of his self against the face of God,”
“in whose soul Satan hath whispered,” and “from whose impiety
Satan flies,” the “depraved one,” “from whom originated and to
whom will return all infidelity, cruelty and crime.” [GPB 141]
Unfortunately, many such references describe a large number of
the learned men at the time of Bahá’u’lláh. The history of the
faith of God has recorded the names of hundreds, nay
thousands, of such men of learning in the garb of divines who
were the essence of ignorance, impiety and injustice. There are
always exceptions to this rule. Bahá’u’lláh, for example, has
praised the fairness of Shaykh Murta∂áy-i-Ansárí. Shaykh
Ma˙múd-i-Álúsí, the Muftí of Baghdád, was also one of
Bahá’u’lláh’s great admirers.
A summary of some of the statements in the Surih Íabr
regarding the learned divines is given below:
o They whom you have taken to be lords beside the One
True God do not have names or essences mentionable in
the sight of God
o They to whom you attribute knowledge and have
accepted them as your divines they are in the sight of
God the worst of men
o We testify that they have not drunk from the fountains
of knowledge

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
o Nothing of rejection and denial against a prophet or a
successor of a prophet has come to pass except after
their permission.
o “Learned men” are not well grounded in knowledge.
o You have shed the blood of people whom the eyes of
existence have not seen like them.
o You have followed those who are not prepared to lose an
atom of their prestige in the path of God.
o Their greatest endeavor in this world is to eat of the
peoples’ property and to sit at the high place in the
assemblies of people and in all of this is their sole glory
upon the peoples of the world.
o Say to them, by God, if only you could have any
awareness in yourselves even less than a moment, you
would erase all your books that you have written without
God’s permission and you would hit your heads and you
would flee from your own homes and you would live in
mountains and you would feed yourselves only the dust
of the earth.
o Do not rejoice in your deeds for you shall soon return to
God and you shall face the resurrection in the mighty
arena on a day which will result in the quaking of the
limbs of all creation.
o Soon will these wrongdoers say while sunk in the lowest
grades of hellfire would to God that we had not taken
these divines to be friends for us.
We should note that the passages addressed to the clergy and
men of learning are scattered throughout the Tablet. Each such
passage is connected to a particular theme in which the clergy
played a role. In a number of instances in the Tablet,
Bahá’u’lláh refers to divines and learned men as follows:

Tablet of Patience
Say I swear by God! They to whom you attribute
knowledge and have accepted them as your divines they
are in the sight of God the worst of men nay the
quintessence of evil flees from them….
We testify that they have not drunk from the fountains
of knowledge and they have not attained unto a word of
Wisdom and have not become aware of the mysteries of
Revelation and have been racing in the land of their
selfish desires….
O people! Fear God and take not knowledge from
muddied fountains that flow from a source of self and
ignorance. Take ye your portion from sweet flowing,
unsullied, waters that flow from the right hand of the
throne and which God has apportioned for the
righteous….
Those who are not prepared to lose an atom of their
prestige in the path of God. Their greatest endeavor in
this world is to eat of the peoples’ property and to sit at
the high place in the assemblies of people and in all of
this is their sole glory upon the peoples of the world….
References of The Báb Concerning Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
The Báb referred to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh in His
first
Book,
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá,
using
the
expression
“Baqiyat’u’lláh” meaning “Remnant of God.” In Surih of Huzn
(Surih of Grief which is Surih 58 or chapter 58 of the book:
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá), He wrote:
O THOU Remnant of God! I have sacrificed myself
wholly for Thee; I have accepted curses for Thy sake,
and have yearned for naught but martyrdom in the path
of Thy love. Sufficient witness unto me is God, the
Exalted, the Protector, the Ancient of Days... [SWB 59]

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In the early stages of His mission, Siyyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad
referred to Himself as the Báb. Those who were endowed with
spiritual perception knew exactly what he meant by the word
“Báb”. Those who were deprived of this bounty thought that He
was a point of connection with the Twelfth Imam of Shí’ah
Islam who had disappeared in what was known as the “Major
Occultation.” Some others thought that He was a “Fourth
Support” of the “Perspicuous Religion” according to Shaykhí
belief. In this regard ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
He began to speak and to declare the rank of Báb-hood.
Now what He intended by the term Báb [Gate] was this,
that He was the channel of grace from some great Person
still behind the veil of glory, Who was the possessor of
countless and boundless perfections, by Whose will He
moved, and to the bond of Whose love He clung. And in
the first book which He wrote in explanation of the
Súrih of Joseph, He addressed Himself in all passages to
that Person unseen from Whom He received help and
grace, sought for aid in the arrangement of His
preliminaries, and craved the sacrifice of life in the way
of His love... [TN 4]
By the fourth year in His mission, the Báb revealed the
Bayán, the book of laws for His own dispensation — one in
Persian and another one in Arabic, and both remained
incomplete. At this point in time, it was quite clear that His
religion was an independent religion from Islam. At this time,
he wrote extensively about the “unseen Person” from Whom he
received help and called him “Him Whom God shall make
manifest” who was the promised one of the dispensation of the
Bayán — a reference to no other person than Bahá’u’lláh.
Compared to previous references to the promised one of Bayán
which were unclear and wrapped in mystery, the reference to
“Him Whom God shall make manifest” in His writings which
were written in Máh-Kú and onwards, were very clear.

Tablet of Patience
In the Bayán, the Báb says that the Bayán “...is, from
beginning to end, the repository of all of His attributes, and the
treasury of both His fire and His light.” In the Persian Bayán,
Arabic Bayán, Seven Proofs, Kitab-i-Asmá and other Writings
of the Báb, there are considerable references to “Him Whom
God shall make manifest”. There are numerous references to the
“year nine” when the advent of “Him Whom God shall make
manifest” will come to fruition. Mírzá Ya˙yá Azal wrongly
interpreted and promoted the time of the appearance of the
promised one of the Bayán to be the year 2001 from the start of
the Báb’s mission14 — based on the number for the name
“Mustagháth.” While in Chihríq, the Báb revealed the Law˙-i-
Hurúfat (Tablet of the Letters) in honor of Dayyán, unraveled
the mystery of the Mustagháth, and alluded to the year nineteen
which would separate the Declaration of the Báb and that of
Bahá’u’lláh. In short, references to “Him Whom God shall make
manifest” in the Writings of the Báb are so vast that it would
be impossible to refer to a tiny fraction of it in this paper.
In the Surih Íabr, Bahá’u’lláh makes mention of the singing
of His praise in Qayyúmu’l-Asmá. This is a quote from the
Tablet:
O Thou Quintessence of truth! Sing and chant with the
most beauteous melodies for all the maidens of paradise
have come out of their assemblies and their tents of
purity that they may hear Your own melody, the melody
that has been sung in the pages of God in the book,
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá.
Bahá’u’lláh refers to “Qayyúmu’l-Asmá” among the writings
of the Báb as “the first, the greatest and mightiest of all books.”
[KI 231] Qayyúmu’l-Asmá is a commentary on the Surih of
Joseph in the Qur’án. The Báb has written one chapter for each
verse of this surih, a total of 111 chapters in all. He has
interpreted the reality of Joseph in an entirely new and breath-
taking manner, with numerous references to Bahá’u’lláh in the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
book. This is why Bahá’u’lláh mentions the name of the Book in
the above passage.
It was not accidental that the Báb revealed the Qayyúmu’l-
Asmá at the start of His mission. The designation of the
promised one according to the Shí’ah is the Qá’im (He who
arises). The name “Qayyúm” is a derivation from the name
Qá’im, with a slight difference, having the meaning: “the one
who is standing.” The numerical value of Yousof (Joseph) and
Qayyúm is the same and is equal to 156. Therefore, it was
providential for the Blessed Báb to write a commentary on the
Surih of Joseph on that eventful night when He declared His
mission to Mullá Óusayn and declared Himself in reality to be
the promised Qá’im.
In the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh further mentions:
Thou knowest that I have now become afflicted between
the unbelievers from two parties and Thou commandest
in both Revelations and overseest both Dispensations
and Thou art manifest in the Twin garments and Thou
art resplendent through the Two Suns and have been
mentioned with the Twin Names, possessest the Twin
Dawning-places, commandest the secret of the Twin
Mysteries in these Two Lines and God is fully aware
beyond all this.
In the above passage, there are several references to some
words in the “Qayyúmu’l-Asmá” which the Báb has used to refer
to Himself and His own Revelation as well as that of
Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation. For example, the Báb uses the
word “Twin Names”. It might mean that the name of Bahá’u’lláh
consists of two names “Óusayn” and “‘Alí “in the same way that
Báb’s
name
also
consists
of
two
names
“‘Alí”
and
“Mu˙ammad”. It might also mean that the name of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh are two names but one reality. Bahá’u’lláh refers, in
His Law˙-i-Maryam, to the Báb as His first name: “The wrongs
which I suffered, have blotted out the wrongs suffered by My

Tablet of Patience
First Name (the Báb) from the Tablet of creation.” Similarly, in
the Surih Íabr there is a mention of “Twin Dawning-places”
which have been also used quite frequently in “Qayyúmu’l-
Asmá”, and it refers to both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. In all
likelihood, the word “Twin Mysteries” widely repeated in the
Tablet, has been used more than any other word in the
“Qayyúmu’l-Asmá”. Not only the “Báb,” Himself was a
mystery, rather, there was another mystery who was Bahá’u’lláh.
One can refer in particular to Surih of Zikr (Surih of
Remembrance which is surih 108 or chapter 108) for the above
references in the Tablet. For further information regarding the
“Qayyúmu’l-Asmá”, refer to the book Gate of the Heart.15
In addition to the above passage, there are a few more
references in the Tablet regarding the “Qayyúmu’l-Asmá.”
Consider the following passage:
O Thou blood soaked Garment! Do not heed the
misgivings of mankind rather burn asunder their veils
and appear with thy divine ornament amongst earth and
heaven …
“Blood soaked Garment” which is used in this passage, seems
to refer to Bahá’u’lláh Himself, as, it brings to mind the story
of Joseph and his brothers. In the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh, without
using the name of His brother, Mírzá Ya˙yá Núrí, refers to the
oppression of His brother, because “blood soaked Garment” has
a prominent place in the story of Joseph and denotes the cruel
action of Joseph’s brothers towards him. The Báb also used this
same expression in his commentary on the surih of Joseph which
is “Qayyúmu’l-Asmá.”
Another set of words used in the Tablet, whose origins can be
traced to the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá, is “crimson and ruby.” For
example one can find this expression in this passage of the
Tablet: “Handmaidens of eternity may return to their seats in
the crimson and ruby laden chambers.” One can find this word
in numerous places in the Báb’s Writings. For example, for the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
people of Bahá, he uses “Companions of the crimson-colored
ruby Ark,” which clearly refers to the followers of the Ancient
Beauty.
References Regarding His Own Revelation
As indicated earlier in this paper, Bahá’u’lláh received
intimation of His mission in 1853 in the Síyáh-Chál (Black Pit).
It was the birth of His Mission and we might refer to this event
as His “concealed declaration”. When He lived, as an exile, in
‘Iráq, He did not mention His experience in this regard in the
Síyáh-Chál to anyone. It was pre-ordained to conceal the light
within Him. However, in reviewing His Writings from this
period, it is quite evident that He is speaking with divine spirit
and authority. Earlier, it was mentioned that there were many
who were aware of His station, and even some of them were
awaiting His open claim to be the promised one of Bayán.16
Two names were mentioned earlier and now we can add a few
more among the believers; whose names were listed by the
Guardian:
Four of the Báb’s cousins and His maternal uncle, Óájí
Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad; a grand-daughter of Fat˙-’Alí
Sháh and fervent admirer of ˇáhirih, surnamed
Varáqatu’r-Ri∂ván; the erudite Mullá Mu˙ammad-i-
Qá’iní, surnamed Nabíl-i-Akbar; the already famous
Mullá Íádiq-i-Khurásání, surnamed Ismu’lláhu’l-Aßdaq,
who with Quddús had been ignominiously persecuted in
Shíráz; Mullá Báqir, one of the Letters of the Living;
Siyyid Asadu’lláh, surnamed Dayyán; the revered Siyyid
Javád-i-Karbilá’í; Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Óasan and Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-Óusayn, later immortalized by the titles of
Sul†ánu’sh-Shuhudá and Ma˙búbu’sh-Shuhadá (King of
Martyrs and Beloved of Martyrs) respectively; Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-’Alíy-i-Nahrí, whose daughter, at a later
date, was joined in wedlock to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; the
immortal
Siyyid
Ismá’íl-i-Zavari’í;
Óájí
Shaykh

Tablet of Patience
Mu˙ammad,
surnamed
Nabíl
by
the
Báb;
the
accomplished
Mírzá
Áqáy-i-Munír,
surnamed
Ismu’lláhu’l-Múníb; the long-suffering Óájí Mu˙ammad-
Taqí, surnamed Ayyúb; Mullá Zaynu’l-Ábidín, surnamed
Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, who had ranked as a highly
esteemed mujtahid — all these were numbered among the
visitors and fellow-disciples who crossed His threshold,
caught a glimpse of the splendor of His majesty, and
communicated far and wide the creative influences
instilled into them through their contact with His spirit.
Mullá Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandí, surnamed Nabíl-i-’Aẓam,
who may well rank as His Poet-Laureate, His chronicler
and His indefatigable disciple, had already joined the
exiles, and had launched out on his long and arduous
series of journeys to Persia in furtherance of the Cause
of his Beloved. [GPB 130]
Among the learned men who were fair minded, we can name
the renowned Ibn-i-Álúsí, the Muftí of Baghdád, Shaykh
‘Abdu’s-Salám, Shaykh ‘Abdu’l-Qádir and Siyyid Dáwúdí. All of
them sought Bahá’u’lláh’s presence, and can be regarded among
His admirers. Among the Government officials, foremost was
‘Abdu’lláh Páshá and his lieutenant Ma˙múd Áqá, and Mullá
‘Alí Mardán, a well-known Kurd. Among the distinguished
Persians, who lived in Baghdád or its nearby towns and or
temporarily were visiting Baghdád and became attracted to the
inner Light of Abhá Beauty there were princes of the royal
blood, amongst whom were the Ná’ibú’l-Iyálih, the Shuja’u’d-
Dawlih, the Sayfu’d-Dawlih, and Zaynu’l-Ábidín Khán, the
Fakhru’d-Dawlih.
[GPB
134-135] The following statement,
describing the atmosphere of the reception room of Bahá’u’lláh,
has been attributed to Prince Zaynu’l-Ábidín Khán, the
Fakhru’d-Dawlih: “were all the sorrows of the world to be
crowded into my heart they would, I feel, all vanish, when in the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh. It is as if I had entered Paradise itself.”
[GPB 135]

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Bahá’u’lláh’s return from Sulaymáníyyih to Baghdád is
regarded as a turning point in the fortunes of the Bábí
community and a significant event in the history of the first
Bahá’í century. At that point in time, the tide of the Bábí
community in ‘Iráq had reached its lowest ebb and with the
return of Bahá’u’lláh, it started to surge back and continued to
move upward, through the wise counsels of Bahá’u’lláh. This
trend continued until His exile to Constantinople took place,
when He made an “open declaration” of His Mission in the
garden of Najíbíyyih.
The Ri∂ván period, which is generally known as the “open
declaration”
of
the
Mission
of
Bahá’u’lláh,
requires
clarification.
We
need
to
distinguish
between
“open
declaration” and “public declaration.” The declaration during
the Ri∂ván period 1863 certainly was not a “public
declaration”. However, we may refer to it by “open
declaration” which signifies that Bahá’u’lláh mentioned to some
individuals that He was in fact the object of prophecies of the
Báb in the Bayán and His other Writings. Wearing of the Táj
(tall felt head-dress) on the day of His departure from the Most
Great House for the garden of Najíbíyyih is another indication
of His imminent assumption of the prophetic office stipulated
by the Báb, “Him Whom God shall make manifest.” Historians
of the Faith have written very little about the nature of the
“open declaration” of Bahá’u’lláh in the garden of Ri∂ván
because the details were not recorded and are not known. In this
regard, the Guardian writes:
Of the exact circumstances attending that epoch-making
Declaration, we, alas, are but scantily informed. The
words Bahá’u’lláh actually uttered on that occasion, the
manner of His Declaration, the reaction it produced, its
impact on Mírzá Ya˙yá, the identity of those who were
privileged to hear Him, are shrouded in an obscurity
which future historians will find it difficult to penetrate.
The fragmentary description left to posterity by His

Tablet of Patience
chronicler Nabíl is one of the very few authentic records
we possess of the memorable days He spent in that
garden. [GPB 153]
In Bahá’u’lláh King of Glory, similar sentiments are expressed:
While writers and chroniclers have left copious accounts
of the throngs of people, their expression of sorrow, the
excellence of the skilled work of the gardeners, nothing
is said of how Bahá’u’lláh made His long awaited
Declaration.17
The significance of this event is that the period of concealment
ended and a new Era started.
In addition, the community of the “Most Great Name”, the
“companions of the Crimson Colored Ark,” mentioned in the
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá, had finally emerged. The Guardian calls
Mírzá Áqá Ján Khádimu’lláh as the “first to believe” in Him
[GPB 115]. We note that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was present in the garden
of Najíbíyyih (Garden of Ri∂ván) during the period of Ri∂ván.
Only some of the believers of the Bayán, living in ‘Iráq or ˆrán,
had the capacity to receive His Message. Bahá’u’lláh has
referred to some of the ambitious and corrupt Bábís as idol
worshipers. [GPB 119] Perhaps it was a rule rather than exception.
In order to receive His message, an entirely new race of men
needed to be created and brought to existence. So, those who
were thinking in terms of the station of prophet-hood or
successor-ship of the Báb and the like were not worthy of
hearing his message. Bahá’u’lláh after reaching Edirne started
sending “Teachers,” like Nabíl Zarandí and Mírzá Áqáy-i-Muníb
with the Surih-i-Aß˙ab (Tablet of Companions), to ˆrán to find
Bábís who had enough conviction and understanding to receive
the Message of Bahá’u’lláh, which was accomplished in the first
and second year of His stay in Edirne. At this juncture, He had
to formally inform Mírzá Ya˙yá Núrí that he should discontinue
his claims to prophet-hood and embrace the new Cause,
something that Azal rejected squarely. We may refer to this

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
stage of unfolding of His Message as the “public declaration.”
Again, His “public declaration” was not an isolated event.
Rather, as stated by the Guardian, it started and continued for a
long time. In God Passes By, the Guardian dedicates an entire
chapter (chapter 10) to the “The Rebellion of Mírzá Ya˙yá and
the Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission in Adrianople.” [GPB
163]
In the Surih Íabr, Bahá’u’lláh makes many references
concerning His Mission and the new dispensation, but He never
used the designation of “Him Whom God shall make manifest,”
— a term reserved by the Báb for the Promised One of the
Bayán. Statements regarding His Mission are scattered
throughout the Tablet. Rather, in the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh hints
to disclosure of His Light and the burning of all veils
enwrapped around Him which had stopped the light within Him
from reaching the eyes of men. Bahá’u’lláh also expresses the
fact that people are not ready for the Message yet and this has
to happen sometime in the future. He uses words like “soon”
and “anticipate” which denote events in the future.
Below are some of the passages in the Tablet which refer to
Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission:
I swear by God! Soon will God cause him to be
manifested within the canopy of grandeur with a
luminous garment which will scintillate like unto the
scintillation of light above the spiritual horizon and eyes
will be dazzled upon beholding him and above his head
there will be a caller from God saying, “This is verily the
one who was long suffering for God in the vain and
futile world and in all that the unbelievers did unto him.
The concourse on high will seek blessing from him and
the occupiers of God’s pavilions will seek to meet him as
well as the holy maidens in the sacred and beautiful
tabernacles.”

Tablet of Patience
Anticipate ye therefore the Day when the clouds of
patience shall be uplifted and the immortal Bird shall
warble, and the Peacock of holiness shall be made
manifest with the ornament of Revelation in the
kingdom of His reunion, and the stammering tongues
shall be freed singing the accents of the Nightingale, and
the Dove of paradise shall sing betwixt earth and heaven
and the Trumpet shall be sounded and bodies of
existence shall all be renewed, and the Divine Fire shall
be ignited, and God in His transcendent and glorious
Beauty shall come in the clouds of the Spirit. Then haste
ye to Him O peoples of the earth! And do not heed
anything else of this world, and let nothing impede you,
and let the affairs of learning should not hinder you and
the matters of wisdom should not lock you out haste
with all haste to the holy and uplifted Precinct. For if
you had been of the patient ones from all eternity but if
ye tarry on that Day less than a moment the quality of
true patience shall not be yours. This has been revealed
by the pen of the Omniscient One.
The above passage can be broken down to the following
expressions:
Anticipate ye therefore the Day when:
The clouds of patience shall be uplifted
Immortal Bird shall warble
Peacock of holiness shall be made manifest with the
ornament of Revelation in the Kingdom of His reunion
Stammering tongues shall be freed singing the accents of
the Nightingale
And the Dove of paradise shall sing betwixt earth and
heaven
Trumpet shall be sounded;

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Bodies of existence shall all be renewed
Divine Fire shall be ignited
God in His transcendent and glorious Beauty shall come
in the clouds of the Spirit;
Then haste ye to Him O peoples of the earth
Let nothing impede you
Let the affairs of learning should not hinder you
Matters of wisdom (philosophical matters, philosophical
thoughts and knowledge) should not lock you out
The
matters
of
wisdom:
Philosophical
matters,
philosophical thoughts, and knowledge
For if you had been of the patient ones from all eternity
but if ye tarry on that Day less than a moment the
quality of true patience shall not be yours
O Solace of the Eyes of Eternity! Witness what the
unbelievers report about this verdant and blessed Tree
that is upraised on the musk-laden mount. So high have
its Branches grown that They have reached a place hidden
beyond
the
Tabernacles
of
holiness.
And
these
unbelievers have purposed to cut its twigs. * Say: it is
protected in the fortress of God and is guarded in His
loving providence and yet God has prevented the hands
of the unbelievers and hypocrites from molesting it,
such that their hands will never reach it. Soon will God
gather under its shade all who are in the kingdom of
existence and this is what God has written for His own
Self to accomplish and all that has been irrevocable in
the Tablets of might written with the Pen of knowledge.
O Holy Countenance! Waft unto all existent things what
God has vouchsafed in His munificence unto Thee that
all things may rise from the sepulchers of their bodies
and that they may all be cognizant of that Revelation
that has come in all truth. Then send upon all beings

Tablet of Patience
musk-laden breezes that have been fragrant from thee
from the source of immortality that haply moldering
bones may be revived by them and that people may not
deprive themselves from this Spirit that has been
breathed by this pre-existent, eternal, and timeless Pen
and thereby they, endowed with the most beauteous
form, may attain resurrection in this holy and blest land.
Although the theme of patience was expressed at the
beginning of the Tablet when the story of the life of Job was
presented, Bahá’u’lláh at other occasions in the Tablet refers
back to the theme of patience. As an example, towards the end
of the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh reverts back to the theme of the
Tablet concerning patience and starts shedding light on the
nature of His own Mission. In reviewing these paragraphs
carefully, we realize that Bahá’u’lláh is making reference to His
own revelation several times, and in different ways, some of
which are quite startling. In addition, He warns the believers to
be vigilant and to be careful not to be attracted to the
manifestations of evil and selfish interests. Two passages are
listed below:
O Solace of the eye of eternity! Change your tone and
chant upon the melodies of those nightingales singing in
the tabernacle of divine names and in the dominions of
divine attributes that the birds of the throne may detach
themselves from the dust of themselves, and may
therefore turn back to their original homeland which is
sanctified beyond transcendence. O Thou Quintessence
of truth! Sing and chant with the most beauteous
melodies for all the maidens of paradise have come out
of their assemblies and their tents of purity that they
may hear Your own melody, the melody that has been
sung in the pages of God in the book, Qayyúmu’l-Asmá.
Do not deprive these of what they have desired to hear
of Thy new and wondrous melodies and loving kindness
for Thou art indeed the most generous One in the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
highest grades of immortality and in truth Thou art
indeed the most generous One in the dominion of
eternity and Thy Name is well known amongst the
concourse on high as the Generous One.
O Thou most holy Beauty! The unbelievers do not
respite Thee that a breath should be exhaled from Thy
chest for as My voice wishes to leave My mouth, they
place the hand of hatred over My mouth and yet with all
your knowledge of this matter you command Me to raise
My call in this atmosphere for Thou art the doer in
truth, Thou art the commander in justice. Thou dost
what Thou wish and Thou art wise over all things. If
Thou hearkenest to the call of Thy servant, if Thou
fulfillest his wish then forgive them with the utmost
kind word and delicate utterance that those handmaidens
of eternity may return to their seats in the crimson and
ruby laden chambers.
This section of the Tablet (the last few paragraphs) looks like
a divine play. Bahá’u’lláh, after making a previous statement
that the time is not ripe for making a declaration, in here He
states that He should come out of His veil and should disclose
His station. It seems these words indicate that if the time is not
ripe to make mention of His station in a clear manner, then, He
should come out of the veil so that they can see the light within
Him.
References to Calf, Sámirí, Satan and Birds of Night
In the Surih Íabr there is no mention of the name of Mírzá
Ya˙yá Núrí known as Azal, half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh, but
there are several references to Calf, Sámirí and Satan which
most probably refer to him. Mírzá Ya˙yá Núrí was a child when
his father passed away, and Bahá’u’lláh took it upon Himself to
raise him up. At the time of the Declaration of the Báb, he was
barely an adult. Several years later when the Báb was

Tablet of Patience
incarcerated, Bahá’u’lláh was well known as the leader of the
Bábí community. In order that Bahá’u’lláh does not attract
more undue attention than he already received, it was prudent
to nominally appoint a figurehead point of contact with the
Báb. This person happened to be Mírzá Ya˙yá Núrí. This
selection was not on the basis of any merits or particular
talents. Bahá’u’lláh has written that only four people knew
about this arrangement and selection as a strategy only. They
were: The Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, Mírzá Músá Kalím (brother of
Bahá’u’lláh) and Mullá ‘Abdu’l-Karím-i-Qazvíní, surnamed
Mírzá A˙mad (Mírzá A˙mad Kátib).18 This nominal figure was
not intended to have the status of a prophet but was only a
figurehead. After the Martyrdom of the Báb, particularly when
Bahá’u’lláh was exiled to ‘Iráq, Mírzá Ya˙yá Núrí came to
Baghdád under great guise and cover and lived there with much
isolation in order not to be seen in public.
At this point and with the encouragement from certain Bábís
who, at that time were considering themselves learned among
the much oppressed Bábí community, Mírzá Ya˙yá thought he
had a status in the Bayán Dispensation as a “Successor” to the
Báb. He prided himself on high sounding titles such as
Mir’atu’l-Azalíyyih
(Everlasting
Mirror),
of
Íub˙-i-Azal
(Morning of Eternity), and of Ismu’l-Azal (Name of Eternity).
Mírzá Ya˙yá and those individuals who circled around him were
jealous of the reverence with which Bahá’u’lláh was treated by
the great majority of the Bábí community. At this point they
still did not know He was the object of adoration in the Bayán
and the actual person referred to by the Báb as “Him Whom
God shall make manifest.” Mírzá Ya˙yá and a small band of
followers considered him to be the “Successor of the Báb,”
despite the fact that there was no such provision in the Bayán
Dispensation. Apart from his shallow knowledge and a
disposition which could not impress anyone, Mírzá Ya˙yá
started promoting the idea that the advent of “Him Whom God
shall make manifest” would occur at a distant time in the future
(the year 2001 from the start of the Bábí Dispensation) —

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
despite the fact that it had already come to pass in “Year Nine”
in the person of Bahá’u’lláh. During this time, Bahá’u’lláh
contained within Himself the Mission with which He was
invested, pending an appropriate time to mention it openly. The
pre-ordained time finally arrived and it was the period of
Ri∂ván 1863 on the eve of His journey to far-away lands.
Bahá’u’lláh knew well that His Declaration will bring
opposition from His half-brother and will cause separation
within the Bábí community. He had tried to educate and prepare
the Bábí community to come to terms with this reality. This can
be seen through references in the Tablet.
In the Tablet there are references to Calf and Sámirí which
bring to mind the events during the time of Moses when He
went to Mt. Sinai to have a conversation with God. A person by
the name of Sámirí in the Qur’án (there is no mention of the
name of Sámirí in the Old Testament) rose in opposition to
Moses and made a “Calf” from the gold of the Israelis and called
it as their God which they worship. Therefore, in the writings of
the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh whenever there is a mention of these
two names (Calf and Sámirí) they may mean those individuals
from among the believers who promote untrue and false ideas
which are very much opposed to the religion of God. In this
dispensation, in particular, two individuals are named: Mírzá
Ya˙yá and Siyyid Mu˙ammad-i-Ißfáhání. To the latter in
particular, Bahá’u’lláh had referred in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, several
years later, as the one who had “led astray” Mírzá Ya˙yá, and
stigmatized him, in one of His Tablets, as the “source of envy
and the quintessence of mischief.”
In anticipation of His “public declaration” which would
start in Edirne, Bahá’u’lláh has warned the believers in Baghdád,
who were left behind, against the noise of the “Calf” which was
in fact what Mírzá Ya˙yá would say, write and distribute among
the believers. In addition, references to “Satan” have been made
in the Tablet in which similarities between “Satan” and Mírzá
Ya˙yá could be drawn in two different ways. We recall the story
of the creation of Adam in which God asked Satan, the

Tablet of Patience
archangel, to bow down before Adam, which he refused. In
Edirne, Bahá’u’lláh revealed Surih-i-Amr in which He clearly
called Himself “Him Whom God shall make manifest” without
leaving any room for misunderstanding, and invited Mírzá
Ya˙yá to embrace His Mission [GPB 166] — the response of
Mírzá Ya˙yá unfortunately was negative. So, Mírzá Ya˙yá,
followed the footsteps of “Satan” who refused to show humility
and submission to Adam, rebelled against Bahá’u’lláh under the
pretext that he was a successor to the Báb in like-manner that
“Satan” thought he had been created from fire while Adam had
been created from mud and therefore he was superior to Adam.
In this way Mírzá Ya˙yá waxed proud before the Manifestation
of God. In the story of “Satan”, there is a second perspective to
consider where Satan said he will mislead the Adam and his
descendants. In like-manner, Mírzá Ya˙yá as the embodiment of
“Satan” in character tried to mislead the Bábís concerning the
New Dispensation and the “public declaration” of Bahá’u’lláh.
In addition, in the Surih Íabr, Bahá’u’lláh refers to the “Birds of
Night”. Birds of Night are creatures like “bats” which are
deprived of the ability of vision to see and enjoy the world
around them in the light of the sun — they start flying when
there is much darkness. In this context, Bahá’u’lláh refers to His
absence from Baghdád, as disappearance of the Sun of Reality
and setting in the “Spiritual Darkness”. In such an environment,
Birds of Night may have been Mírzá Ya˙yá and his associates
who would start moving about and spreading false teachings. In
the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh warns the believers against them and
advises the believers not to pay any attention to them.
Another reference to Mírzá Ya˙yá and his associates can be
found in statements in the Tablet such as “those who joined
partners with God,” and also “idol worshipers.” This discussion
regarding some passages in the Tablet concerning Mírzá Ya˙yá
and his associates would be incomplete without mention of the
views expressed by individuals, who were un-informed at best
or ill-intentioned at worst, in their perspective on the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Individuals such as E.G. Browne tried

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
to wrongly advance the idea that the Azalí and Bahá’í groups
were two divisions within the Bábí community and favored the
idea that Azal’s views were closer to the teachings of the Báb,
and further, that Bahá’u’lláh usurped power from the legitimate
successor (vicegerent) of the Báb. In addition, they translated
into English (particularly E.G. Browne), a much discredited
history book allegedly written by Óájí Mírzá Jání Káshání
called Nuq†atu’l-Káf, and along with the original book in
Persian and a foreword by E.G. Browne printed and distributed
it in the wider western circles (E.G. Browne attached much
significance to his finding of this book). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
countered these misgivings by directing Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l to
refute the false-hood of all the claims advanced in that book so
called “Nuq†atu’l-Káf.” Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l started on the task in
earnest, and half-way through the writing of the book, he passed
away to Abhá Kingdom in Cairo, Egypt. Finally this book was
completed by a group of Bahá’í scholars in ˇihrán with the
assistance from Mírzá Siyyid Mihdí Gulpaygání and was called
“Kashf ul-Ghita.” This book was finally printed but was not
distributed widely.19
Some of the passages in the Surih Íabr which contain
references to Calf, Sámirí, Satan and Birds of Night include:
The earth shall be inherited by those servants who are
wholly consecrated unto God, have not imbibed the love
of the “Calf” in their hearts, and who turn away from
those who continue to disbelieve despite clear evidences
presented to them. Thus have the fingers of might upon
the tablets of light inscribed the divine behest.
But O people of the Bayan! Strive with the utmost
striving that ye may not disagree * about the Cause of
God and be ye as steadfast as the mountain in all truth in
such wise that the whisperings of the Evil One may not
cause you to slip and that nothing on earth may pervert
you. All this is that which the Dove of Revelation
counselleth you at the time of departure from ‘Iráq

Tablet of Patience
because of what the hands of unbelievers have wrought.
Furthermore know ye, O concourse of chosen ones, that
when the Sun sets, the birds of night will move about in
the darkness, but you ought not pay heed to them.
Rather turn your faces in this well-beloved and holy
direction. Beware lest ye follow the “Sámirí” in your
souls; beware lest ye fall behind the “Calf” when it bleats
amongst you. This is my best counsel unto you and unto
all created things. You shall hear the call of Sámirí after
Me and he will summon you to the Evil One. Go ye not
therefore to him, rather turn to this Hidden and
Glorious Beauty. At this point We address all who are in
heaven and on earth from this City that haply all things
may attain to what has been ordained for them from the
Wise, the Omniscient One.
Ere long will the cause of God be manifested and truth
shall be distinguished from falsehood. The standards of
guidance will be uplifted and all traces of those who
have joined partners with God obliterated.
Farewell to the Believers
Bahá’u’lláh left Baghdád with His family and 26 individuals
whom He selected to accompany Him (there were a few more
who joined the travelers middle of the way). The vast majority
of those who loved Him were left behind and it weighed heavily
on their hearts to see Him move away from their midst. In the
last few paragraphs in the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh bids farewell to
the believers in glowing terms and with language full of
imagery, makes use of terms such as the “bird”, “tree”,
“branches”, “Sheba”, “Sinai” and “fragrant and musk laden
breeze.” Leaving the “City of God” or “the Abode of Peace” on
the day of departure has been recorded in great detail from the
“Pen of the Most High” in other tablets, and by historians and
by eye-witnesses of the events of that day who penned down
what they saw for posterity. Bahá’u’lláh calls this event as “the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
day of Great Terror” in this Tablet which is quoted below. For
this phrase, there may be two different explanations.
Say: this Tablet enjoins upon you, patience on this day
of the Great Terror and commands you to show
forbearance * in this Most Great Agitation
The use of this terminology “day of the Great Terror” has
two-fold significance. First, the usage of the word: day of the
“Great Terror” which is in fact one of the references to the
“Day of Judgement.” “Most Great Terror” is one of the
references in the Qur’án describing the time of the end.
The Supreme Horror will not grieve them, and the angels
will welcome them, (saying): This is your Day which ye
were promised. (Surah Al-Anbiya, Surih number 21, verse 103)
The interpretation of the day of Great Terror in the
Writings is the time of appearance of the Manifestation of
God. So, in this regard when Bahá’u’lláh is referring to day of
Great Terror in the Tablet as quoted above, it is likely to refer
to both meanings. The first one is His own appearance in the
fulfillment of the prophecies in the Qur’án. Also, it might refer
to his actual departure from the “Most Great House” in
Baghdád, for the garden of Najíbíyyih, to which He never
returned. On that day, even the trees and stones moaned their
separation from Him. The second meaning of this word is its
actual physical meaning and in fact if we notice what has been
reported about that day and all the commotion, wailing and
crying of the people, even non-believers, it was indeed the day
of great terror.
In describing His departure from Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh has
used the term “Dove of Hijáz flies from ‘Iráq.” There is a
mystery in this statement and there may be a few interpretations
or explanations for calling Himself “Dove of Hijáz.” Hijáz is
the land of Arabia and the region around Mecca and Medina. As
far as we know, neither His ancestry is rooted in Arabia and

Tablet of Patience
Hijáz to warrant the usage of such word for Himself in this
manner, unlike the Báb whose lineage was from Hijáz and thus
his self-reference as the Arabian Youth (He was a Siyyid), nor
did Bahá’u’lláh travel to this region for pilgrimage or a visit.
One could possibly interpret Bahá’u’lláh’s usage of this term as
being due to having revealed the Surih Íabr in Arabic which is
the language of Hijáz. In addition, Hijáz and Hijází are a music
system of notes, and singing in the Hijází system or melody of
Hijáz. The reference to the “Dove of Hijáz,” could denote
prophet-hood and being a Manifestation of God. It could mean
singing in a similar manner as Mu˙ammad did, who was in
reality a “Dove of Hijáz.” In other words, by using this
terminology, Bahá’u’lláh could be stating indirectly that He is a
Manifestation of God.
Other imagery used by Bahá’u’lláh in His parting words in
the Surih Íabr is “The Bird of Immortality has flown from the
Horizon of Eternity and has purposed the Sheba of the Spirit in
the Sinai of holiness.” This passage is very complex to
understand it correctly, while connecting the elements
mentioned in the verse. After all, it is mentioned in the
following passage that “this is but one of God’s hidden secrets.”
The following may be one of several explanations: The Bird of
Immortality is Bahá’u’lláh who has flown from the Horizon of
Eternity for spiritual Sheba. Sheba was the kingdom of the
Queen of Sheba who had a message for King Solomon and vice
versa, and a bird was a messenger between them (this is why He
uses the metaphor “The Bird of Immortality” in here). However,
this Sheba of Spirit is in the Sinai of holiness. The Sinai of
Holiness brings to mind the conversation of Moses with God
and the revelation and religion that Moses brought to the
people exemplified in the form of the Ten Commandments. In
other words, this Bird of Immortality who is Bahá’u’lláh has
flown from the Horizon of Eternity in order to bring a spiritual
message to the people in the Sinai of holiness. In short, this is
again another statement that the disclosure of His station to the
people is imminent.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Abode of Peace is a reference to paradise and is also a title
for “Baghdád” in Islamic literature and history. There is a
prophecy in the Qur’án regarding the call of God which will go
out of “Abode of Peace” which is Baghdád — this refers to the
revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Muslim scholars and men of learning
have interpreted the “Abode of Peace” as Paradise.
And Allah summoneth to the abode of peace, and leadeth
whom He will to a straight path. (Súrah Yunus, Súrah 10,
verse 25)
In some of the Tablet’s passages he discusses His departure
from Baghdád and comforts those who stay behind:
Say: this Tablet enjoins upon you patience on this day of
the Great Terror and commands you to show
forbearance * in this Most Great Agitation when this
Dove of Hijáz flies from ‘Iráq and sheds upon all
contingent beings the fragrances of separation and on
the face of heaven appears the color red for thus is the
matter decreed in the Mother Book.
Say: The Bird of Immortality has flown from the
Horizon of Eternity and has purposed the Sheba of the
Spirit in the Sinai of holiness so that in the Mirror of
divine destiny the commands of His decree may be
reflected and this is but one of God’s hidden secrets.
Say: The Bird of Glory has flown from one branch and
has sought the Branch of holiness planted in the land of
exile. Say: the Breeze of Divine Unity has dawned from
the Abode of Peace and has sought to blow over the city
of separation as mentioned in the scrolls of divine
Revelation. Say: O concourse in the heavens and on
earth! Throw ye ashes on your faces and on your heads
because the Beauty of God disappears from these near
cities and intends to dawn from the horizon of a remote
heaven. All this has been decreed in truth and We are

Tablet of Patience
thankful to God in that He has caused to descend on Us
tribulation after tribulation and at this moment too He
rains upon Us from the Clouds of His Decree down-
pouring of well-known sorrows.
Conclusion
The Tablet of Patience (Súrih-i-Íabr) is a mighty Tablet
revealed at a critical time in the history of the Bahá’í Faith. For
better understanding of this Tablet, in this article, several key
concepts were explored and discussed, with consideration of the
historical context or the spiritual principles behind them. It is
hoped that exploration of the key themes provides a basis for a
study of the Tablet’s contents in greater detail. The Tablet’s key
themes explored in this paper include patience and calamities, life
of Job, events of Nayríz and Va˙íd, status of religious leaders
in the sight of God, prophecies of the Báb regarding Revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh, open and public declarations of Bahá’u’lláh,
meaning of Calf, Sámirí, and the parting words of Bahá’u’lláh.

NOTES
1 Balyuzi, H.M., Bahá’u’lláh The King of Glory, George Ronald Publisher,
Oxford, 1980, pp. 132-134.
2 Taherzadeh, Adib, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I, George Ronald
Publisher, Oxford, 1974, pp. 92-93
3 Refer to the following link: http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_surih_sabr
4 Holy Bible, Lockman Foundation, 1973, Canada, p. 368.
5 Holy Bible, ibid, p. 368.
6 Holy Bible, ibid, p. 369.
7 Holy Bible, ibid, p. 393.
8 Nabíl-i-’Aẓam, The Dawn Breakers, Translated from the original Persian
and Edited by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, 1970, pp. 173-177.
9 TN 7-8.
10 The Dawn Breakers, pp. 465-476.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15

11 Ahdieh, Hussein and Chapman, Hillary; Awakening, A History of the Bábí
and Bahá’í Faiths in Nayriz, Bahá’í Pub. Trust, Wilmette, 2013, pp. 53-76.
12 The Dawn Breakers, pp. 477- 499.
13 The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I, ibid, pp. 141-142.
14 Schaefer, Udo; Towfigh, Nicola; Gollmer, Ulrich; Making the Crooked
Straight, a Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics, trans. from German by Dr.
Geraldine Schuchelt, George Ronald Publisher, Oxford, 2002, pp. 603-604.
15 Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, Understanding the Writings of the Báb,
Wilfred Laurier University Press, Canada, 2nd printing, 2010.
16 The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. I, pp 84-85.
17 Balyuzi, H.M., Bahá’u’lláh The King of Glory, ibid, p. 173.
18 The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, 1992, p. 61.
19 Making the Crooked Straight, pp 496-528.

Elucidations
Non-Involvement in Politics
Universal House of Justice
[Authorized translation from the Persian]
(Department of the Secretariat)
24 December 2013
Dear Bahá’í Friend,
Kindly convey the following to ....
Your letter dated 5 October 2013, in which you raise a
number of questions related to the discussions that took place
at the recent conference of the Association of Friends of
Persian Culture in Chicago, was received by the Universal House
of Justice. It has asked us to convey the following.
The House of Justice noted with appreciation your concern
for safeguarding the interests of the Cause. In response to your
questions, it should be noted that non-involvement in politics is
one of the principles of the Bahá’í Faith and cannot be
disregarded by any individual or institution. The House of
Justice has repeatedly, and most recently in its message of 12
Isfand 1392 [2 March 2013] addressed to the believers in the

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Cradle of the Faith, elaborated a framework within which
Bahá’ís may participate in constructive social activities and
interactions without deviating a hair’s breadth from this law of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Concerning the contents of the talk given by one of the
prominent believers at this conference, no doubt you have by
now seen his response to the open letter.
You ask whether collaboration with, support for, and
approval of political parties that are in opposition to a
government are considered a form of involvement in politics.
This is indeed the case. The House of Justice, in the same 12
Isfand [2 March] message, reminds the community of the
Greatest Name that the believers must learn how, on the one
hand, to participate in civil activities and a wide range of
endeavors for the spiritual and social transformation of
humanity and, on the other, to strictly abstain, by word and
deed, from involvement in partisan politics. Collaboration with
movements, organizations, groups, and individuals, whose goals
are compatible with the ideals of the Faith and whose
approaches are in line with the Bahá’í community’s approach,
can assist with this learning. However, the believers should
never compromise the fundamental principles of the Faith or
deviate from their own path for any reason. At the same time
they should learn from occasional mistakes, modify and correct
their actions, avoid criticizing one another, and preserve the
unity of the community at all times.
Rest assured of the supplications of the House of Justice at
the
Sacred
Threshold
for
the
continued
success
and
confirmation of your endeavors.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat

In Memoriam
The passing of three staunch and dear supporters of `Irfán
Colloquium, Mr. Hushmand Fatheazam, Dr. Amin Banani, and
Ms. Mahboubeh Arjmand, in 2013, is greatly regrettable and a
great loss to the organizers, participants and friends of the
`Irfán Colloquium. May the radiant souls of these three valued
friends be richly rewarded in the Abhá Kingdom.
Mr. Hushmand Fatheazam, from the start of the `Irfán
Colloquium and its publications, was a constant encourager,
inspirer and patron of the services rendered through this
project. We greatly benefited from his guidance and
collaboration. Whenever it was feasible for him, Mr. Fatheazam
and his dear wife Shafigheh Fatheazam were participating at the
`Irfán Colloquium sessions. Mr. Fatheazam’s presentations
immensely enriched our programs and we greatly enjoyed their
presence. Our publications contain the texts of some of his
presentations.
Dr. Amin Banani was one of the founders and patrons of the
‘Irfán Colloquium program in Northern California, at Bosch
Bahá’í School. As long as his health condition allowed it, he,
together with his dear wife Sheila Banani, was regularly
participating at the `Irfán Colloquium sessions, where he made
scholarly presentations, while Sheila coordinated the program of
the sessions conducted in English. He is especially missed at our
sessions convened at Bosch Bahá’í School.
Ms. Mahboubeh Arjmand, who passed away in San Diego,
was one of the supporters of the `Irfán Colloquium and was
regularly making contributions to Haj Mehdi Arjmand

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Memorial Fund that sponsors `Irfán Colloquium services. Ms.
Arjmand passed away in San Diego. She was fondly remembered
as a devoted participant at various Bahá’í youth activities in
Iran.
Iraj Ayman
`Irfán Publications

In Memoriam
Hushmand Fatheazam1
(1924-2013)



We begin by borrowing these stellar words from one of Mr.
Fatheazam’s closest friends and contemporaries who declared,
soon after his passing, that he was “…a majestic figure with a
legacy of spirituality, of humility, of scholarship, and of
steadfastness that will endure the tests of time and will inspire
generations to come.”2 Such an illustrious portrayal is not
ungenuine nor an ideal distant from the realm of possibility. It
is an eager accolade justified in a life indissoluble from the
religious faith which nourished it.
The opening scene is literally the dawning of the Day of God,
the earliest years of the new-born Revelation and the date is
1845. “One day, crowds of people gathered in the streets of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Shiraz to watch a procession. The cruel and impious Husayn
Khán, the Nizámu’d-Dawlih, ruler of the town had reviled and
cursed three men, stripped them of their clothes, burned their
beards, scourged one of them with one thousand lashes, and
pierced their noses and through the incisions cords were passed
with which the three men were led through the town. These
three heroes were: Quddus, Mulla Sadiq Muqaddas and Mulla
Ali Akbar Ardestani.”3 The first three Bábís known to have
suffered persecution for their faith on Persian soil. Hushmand
Fatheazam, born on January 8th, 1924, in Teheran, Iran, was the
great grandson of Mulla ‘Ali Akbar Ardestani, and his wife
Shafiqih Farzar, the great granddaughter of his fellow sufferer,
Mulla Sadiq Muqaddas (or Ismu’lláhu’l-Asdaq). As destiny
would have it, these two graceful sweethearts, married in 1948,
were already conjoined by their forebears some hundred years
earlier…
Such may be the auspicious beginning but these lives do not
go unchallenged, nor are they spared pain. Hushmand
Fatheazam was only 28, and alone in India (his wife and newly
born son, Shahab, to join him later in their pioneering post)
when he received news of the cruel murder of his father,
Nureddin Fatheazam, then Chairman of the National Spiritual
Assembly of Iran. Irresponsible farmers of a certain village near
Tihran attacked him most ferociously and tore him into pieces.
No voice was raised against these atrocities and no signs of
justice were ever manifested in the whole country. Only one
honor emerged from this horrific episode of martyrdom and
that was when Shoghi Effendi instructed that a tomb, in honor
of Nureddin Fatheazam, was to be erected on his behalf.
Another painful, unexpected loss would occur several years
later in the life of Hushmand Fatheazam with the passing away
of his youngest son, Shafiq, in Canada, in 1994. Historical
reporting of these particularly disconsolate events in more than
a century of suffering to one family is not to create pathos but
to show that even religiously dedicated and passionate men and
women, on the deepest personal level, are not spared ‘sorrow

In Memoriam
and anxiety, regret and tribulation…the lot of every loyal
servant of God’. (BK 7)
Such unqualified allegiance to the Cause of God began when
Hushmand Fatheazam, at only 18 years of age, requested
permission from his father, Nureddin, to pioneer to Iraq. His
father responded that at such an age, under 21 years of age (the
age which makes Bahá’ís eligible for administrative posts), not
even his physical presence would assist in the formation of any
Local Spiritual Assembly. Hushmand, in his defense, mentioned
the story of a young pioneer whom Shoghi Effendi had praised
some years earlier for having formed Local Assemblies even
himself being unable to serve for similar age restrictions.
Hushmand, the eldest of four children, was granted his father’s
permission to leave Iran on this noble quest.
After a brief home-front pioneering later in Shiraz as a
married man (1950), Hushmand Fatheazam lived his first
memorable and glorious episode, as a pioneer in that land of
constellations we know as India at the onset of the Ten Year
Crusade of the beloved Guardian in 1953.
After completing the requirements of a doctoral degree
program in Persian Literature at Tehran University, Hushmand
Fatheazam won a special scholarship offered by the Indian
government for graduate studies at Tagore’s Visva Bharati
University, in Shantiniketan, West Bengal, today known as
Peace University. Mr. Fatheazam then earned an M.A degree in
Sanskrit Language and Literature from that University. He was
the only known Persian scholar in this particular field of study.
Although he was fully qualified to seek a faculty position back
in his home country, Iran, the young couple decided to remain
in India as pioneers of the Ten Year Plan. Dorothy Baker, the
Hand of the Cause of God visiting India in the early ‘50s, after
having given a series of lectures at the same University,
encouraged the Fatheazams to move to New Delhi, the capital,
to better serve the Faith. In 1955 Mr. Fatheazam was elected as
a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
India and served as its Executive Secretary until 1963. He
performed that duty on a voluntary basis and had to support his
family with income earned from three part-time jobs. Among
these, was serving as program developer for the Persian section
of All India Radio. In addition to his expertise in Persian
language and literature he also did translation work for the
Iranian Embassy. Shafiqih, while taking care of their three very
young children, also engaged in dress-making to supplement
their limited income. Mr. Fatheazam would work all day at the
National Bahá’í Center and would conduct his work in the
evening at All India Radio from 9:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. with
translation work being completed at the weekends. This is how
Hushmand Fatheazam managed to offer his services as full-time
Secretary of the National Assembly without burdening the
National Fund.
In early 1960 following the Rampur conference a year
before, the Hand of the Cause of God Dr. Mohajer met with
the National Assembly of India and advised them to focus their
teaching activities on the rural areas sensing that the time was
propitious to begin mass teaching. A small team of volunteers,
led by Shirin Boman Meherabani, was recruited and contact was
made with the Bhilala tribal village, some fifty miles from
Indore, in the State of Madhya Pradesh. Thus began an activity
that spread as a fire that ‘blazeth and rageth in the world…’4 The
National Office, however, did not have the manpower nor the
financial resources to produce Bahá’í literature in various
languages fast enough to accompany the rate with which
multitudes were embracing the Faith. There was the imminent
need to recruit, train and send travelling teachers to the newly
opened localities and deepen the new believers and consolidate
newly developed Bahá’í communities. Managing the national
affairs of the Bahá’í community of India was so overwhelming
and so demanding that its execution seemed quite an impossible
job.
Under the pressure of so many heavy responsibilities, Mr.
Fatheazam introduced some very original, not to mention

In Memoriam
innovative, measures. He would publish small postcards with
pictures of a fruit or a flower accompanied by a selected
quotation from the Writings in different Indian languages.
Bahá’í teachers would then give such cards to every family who
would embrace the Faith. Mr. Fatheazam later used the notes of
the courses he had given at Bahá’í summer schools to author a
book called The New Garden, first published in 1963, which
introduced the main verities of the Bahá’í Faith in a simple and
sweet language, and which acted as a kind of standard textbook
for new believers. This book is unique and has become an
international best seller, today translated into one hundred and
nine languages and continually being reprinted and published in
new editions worldwide.
These achievements were undertaken by Mr. Fatheazam in the
true spirit of voluntary service to the Cause, that is, without
remuneration. He never did receive, or wish to receive, any
royalty from the many books he published in his life. He did
make sure, however, that the monies drawn from these books
were donated to one of the many Bahá’í projects. Both Mr.
Fatheazam and his wife, Shafiqih, were content to lead a very
simple life, but their simple home was always open to entertain
both Bahá’í and non-Bahá’í visitors alike.
Destiny articulates itself unbidden and the ensuing chapter
in the life of Hushmand Fatheazam can only be labeled as
dramatic. The daughter of no less a person than Mulla ‘Ali
Akbar Ardestani was amongst the 6,000 Bahá’ís who were
attending the World Congress in London in 1963 where the first
historic Universal House of Justice was formally presented to
the Bahá’í world. Hushmand, her grandson, was standing, with
eight others, with his hands clasped and head bowed, before a
cheering multitude gathered in the Royal Albert Hall.
Protagonists of a fascinating period of Bahá’í history, these
very first ‘passion-wingèd Ministers of thought’5 faced an
immense challenge representing not only an institution with no
precedent or history but a world-wide community struggling to
be born. Their summons was larger in that these nine men had to

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
ensure the welfare not just of the community it was created to
protect but “…to foster that which is conducive to the…
advancement and betterment of the world.”6 A momentous era
in human history was fused with a life-shaking personal
transition of nine individuals. Surely this cannot be confined to
a singular expression. The moment speaks more than its own
historical situation.
However, it was not his membership on the Universal House
of Justice, which was to last 40 years — a value in itself — which
providentially earns Hushmand his place among God’s heirs.
This is not enough to endear him. Sires of an immortal strain,
what makes him and his fellow-members exceptional in these
early years of the birth and functioning of the House of Justice,
was the inestimable and privileged seating from which to
witness historic undertakings and deliberations associated with
that august body, be they legislative, as enshrined in the
Constitution signed on the Day of the Covenant 1972, be they
significant enunciations (for example, The Promise of World
Peace,
distributed
to
many
politicians
and
prominent
individuals since its writing in 1985, is the first, and still only,
official public statement made by the Universal House of
Justice since its inception), be they Holy Sites developments
and ever-extending gardens along the perennial designs laid
down by the beloved Guardian, be they the completion of
almost all of the buildings of the Arc (there only remains the
International Bahá’í Library yet to be constructed), the
formation of institutions anticipated by Shoghi Effendi, such as
the International Teaching Centre established in 1973, a
paradigm shift in modes of thinking by raising collective
consciousness that led to “...a change in the culture of the
community,”7 and so many other stupendous developments and
triumphs in any of the many spheres of the supreme
institution’s responsibility. It would not be wrong to say that
these men lay their heads on stone, and sleep waking, fixing
their gaze by day and by night unable to flee the business of the
world or the heavy burden of work. Self-sacrifice is their proper

In Memoriam
end — a sacrifice particularly hard felt by an adamantine
Hushmand in his shouldering “almost single-handedly the day-
to-day tasks and anguish and sheer exhaustion of being the link
of communication between the House of Justice and the friends
in Iran”8 during the fierce and continuing onslaught of the
modern persecution of this Bahá’í community since 1980.
In May 2003, Hushmand and Shafiqih left Haifa, never to
return. One curious fact was that Hushmand never went on
pilgrimage. Such a glaring omission living in such proximity to
the Holy Sites was as much imposed by his tenure as by the
circumstances prior to his election to the House of Justice. He
always wanted to visit Shoghi Effendi but was deprived. He
made his pilgrimage, though, through life — a life with more of
the qualities of a folktale in its humor and witty, realistic
observations about the world than a soberly biblical prose.
Hushmand Fatheazam’s departure from Haifa and its solemn
obligations was never seen as emancipation. His final ten years
spent in Vancouver, Canada, plunged him into feverish, creative
activity, such as being a regular radio broadcaster in Payam-e-
Doost where more than 400 weekly talks have been recorded in
the Persian language, reaching his fellow citizens in Iran and
where many declared themselves as Bahá’ís. Listeners are
numbered in the hundreds of thousands. These talks are now
being assembled in several volumes to be re-published with the
heading Afkar-i-Naw, Goftar-i-Naw. He translated the books of
Shoghi Effendi into Persian from the original English, namely,
The Advent of Divine Justice and The World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. He also translated into Persian voluminous
biographical works, such as Mr. Faizi and the Maxwells of
Montreal
(the
first
volume).
He
published
his
book
Introduction to the Bahá’í Faith in Persian which to date has
sold 35 thousand copies mostly distributed in Iran. His book of
poems was published in 2005 and a new edition is being planned
as the entire stock has long since been sold. He recently began
his book on the Persian writings of Shoghi Effendi, entitled
Bahr-i-Por Gohar, but managed to complete only three chapters,

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
having begun writing the fourth when the die cast of scholarship
was interrupted from the spirit which was molding it.
Hushmand Fatheazam’s capacity for work was undeniably
extraordinary and his literary output of the rarest quality.
Mojtaba Minavi (1903–1976), the well-known Iranian historian,
literary scholar and professor of Tehran University, praised
Hushmand, then only 21 years of age, for his outstanding
translation of Tolstoy’s “A Confession” offering it as an
absolute model for its writing style and interpretative potential
as well as linguistic patterns. His distinct style of writing is
worthy of study and emulation. If we were to identify a
constant in Hushmand Fatheazam’s literary output it would be
this: his writings, his poems, his public talks, the ethical
structure of his life pinned on the sovereign idea of transience
not to demean the world or to mock it — he never wished for
anyone to crave for finality — but to impel us to step into
eternity while still on excursion here on earth. Hushmand’s
prodigious literary production rested on the firm belief that to
survive the vicissitudes of fortune one must make ‘the leap of
faith’, a personal commitment to the kind of life not dependent
on the contingencies of success or human love which always
make life unsatisfactory but on a life which rests upon a
relationship with God. Hushmand Fatheazam’s intellectual and
literary endowment, despite his call to onerous, uninterrupted
Bahá’í service, will give the world another heart and other
pulses.
His very last service to the Faith was his participation in the
Youth Conference in Vancouver, on Sunday morning, August
4th, 2013. “His stirring talk at that event called by the Universal
House of Justice was truly a gift of encouragement to those
gathered there. His spiritual life, which began as a youth in
Teheran all those years ago, bore its final sweet fruit among
these youth in Canada. How lucky they were to hear him and
how blessed he was to die with his boots on…”9 That afternoon,
he suffered a heart attack and was taken to hospital never to

In Memoriam
fully regain consciousness. He passed away just before midday,
August 13th.
This final act really depicts Mr. Fatheazam’s life as a
serpentine verse. It began with the word faithfulness and ended
with it. His life was accomplished because it was harmoniously
unified. He consistently obeyed his inner self open to the world
and its objects but molded, paradoxically, by institutions,
traditions, and all the social regulators shunned by modern man.
Therein lay his self-sufficiency and self-reliance because these
were spiritually guided not by an inner law but by a law which
was the province of established religion. He showed us that to
respect authority is not servility but stability and more, love.
Indeed, he materialized in its essence ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s injunction:
“Obedience is the rod by which I measure the love of the
friends.”10 His was the tenderest ‘radiant heart that exuded an
all-embracing love’,11 making no difference between feeling for
someone (sympathy) and feeling as them (empathy), all the time
recognizing that while qualities common to the human species
went into the making of it, ego is born only because humanity is
suppressed and unloved.
In any context within this delightful or alarming, disheveled
world, Hushmand Fatheazam was unchangeable, consistent and
never self-divided because he lived in an attitude of prayer, an
attitude which enacted a personal history in which coherent
evolution was shown to be possible and why it inevitably leads
to felicity. His particular greatness was his humility. “He
combined humility and nobility to perfection.”12 Once, on being
asked as a member of the Universal House of Justice, how he
assessed his role in the worldwide development of the Bahá’í
Faith, Hushmand replied: “Individual’s role always gets
amalgamated in any institution of the Bahá’í Faith. I firmly
believe that each Bahá’í reflects the will of God in all his
undertakings, though he plays his role relative to his level of
consciousness, no matter where he is placed.”13 Hushmand was
really saying that individuals on the House disappear in
membership, a similar disposition shared by his contemporary

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
and colleague since the earliest days Mr. Ian Semple, himself the
longest serving member of the House and who passed away in
2011. On those early years, he wrote:
There was, from the very first, an extraordinary feeling
of unity and love among the members, and also of
absolute dependence on the strength and guidance of
Bahá’u’lláh. The image which came to my mind at that
time was that we were a handful of pebbles in the palm
of God.14
We end this brief outline as we began, with another written
remembrance, but this tribute is more poignant, marching,
distinctly relevant, and infinite:
We have learned, with profound sadness, of the passing
of our dearly cherished, greatly esteemed former
colleague Hushmand Fatheazam. Tenderness of spirit,
profound knowledge, noble humility, and tireless
endeavour characterized his highly valued services
rendered over the course of many decades, whether as a
member of the Universal House of Justice for forty
years beginning in 1963, as Secretary of the National
Spiritual Assembly of India, or as an enkindled pioneer,
avid proponent of teaching among the masses, and
inspired author. His wholehearted and resolute defence
of the community of the Greatest Name was unwavering,
and his determination in the face of adversity unyielding.
Gifted with a unique eloquence in Persian prose and
verse, he leaves a remarkable legacy of deploying the
power of that language in service to the Cause. Beyond a
distinguished record of consecrated exertion in the path
of the Blessed Beauty, he will also be remembered for his
manifold
outstanding
personal
qualities,
for
his
delightful humour, and for his kindly and radiant heart
that exuded an all-embracing love.

In Memoriam
We extend our deep condolences to his dear wife,
Shafiqih, and to his bereaved sons and other family
members and assure them of our ardent supplications at
the Sacred Threshold that his illumined soul may reap a
rich reward in the Abhá Kingdom. The friends
throughout the world are called upon to hold memorial
meetings
in
his
honour,
including
befitting
commemorative gatherings in all Houses of Worship.
The Universal House of Justice
14th August 2013

NOTES
1 This article is authored, at the request of `Irfán Publications, by Shahbaz
Fatheazam
2 Soheil Bushrui, letter of condolence to the family, dated August 14, 2013
3 A.Q. Faizi, Bahá’í Journal (UK), June 1963
4 Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í Prayers, UK Bahá’í Publising Trust, 1975, page 29.
5 Percy B. Shelley, from his poem “Adonais”
6 The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, Declaration of Trust
7 Universal House of Justice, Ridván Message 2000, Bahá’í Era 157
8 Ian Semple, deceased member of the Universal House of Justice, in a letter
to the family dated April 16th, 2003
9 Alí Nakhjavaní, retired member of the Universal House of Justice, in his
delivered eulogy on Hushmand Fatheazam.
10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in J. Thompson’s Diary, pp. 369-72.
11 The Universal House of Justice, in its message to all National Spiritual
Assemblies, dated August 14th, 2013
12 Nakhjavaní, ibid.
13 Hushmand Fatheazam, in a published interview in Bahá’í North, a
publication by the Bahá’í community of Punjab, India, 1987.
14 Ian Semple, ibid., page 21.

Amin Banani
(1926-2013)



Amin Banani1 was born in Tehran on September 23, 1926. He
received his elementary education at Jamshid Jam Primary
School and completed the first three years of high school at the
Alborz Secondary School. In 1943, in the midst of the Second
World War, he joined a number of young Persian Bahá’ís who
came to the United States on board a U.S. troopship arriving in
February 1944 to complete their education. Due to the more
advanced curriculum of the Persian schools at the time, he was
able to graduate from high school by June of 1944 as the
valedictorian of his class. In September 1944 he was admitted to

In Memoriam
Stanford University and graduated in 1947 with a major in
history. He obtained his M.A. from Columbia University in
1949 and returned to Stanford University to receive his Ph.D. in
1959.
His academic career began with teaching history at the
Overseas Program of the University of Maryland in Athens,
Greece, in 1956-58. Then he taught for one year as an Instructor
at Stanford University, 1958-59; two years as an Assistant
Professor of Humanities at Reed College, 1959-61; two years as
Research Fellow and Assistant Professor at Harvard University,
1961-63. In September 1963 he was invited to UCLA by
Professor Gustave von Grunebaum to start the program of
Persian studies. From the start his teaching was not narrowly
focused but covered both history and literature. This broad
encompassing of Persian cultural history was reflected in his
research
and
scholarship.
From
his
first
book,
The
Modernization of Iran, published in 1961, to his latest
contribution to the volume published by the Danish Academy
of Sciences in 2008 entitled Religious Texts in Iranian
Languages, he concerned himself with vital aspects of a living
and continuing cultural tradition.
Some of the more significant writings of Amin Banani are
chapters entitled “Ferdowsi and the Art of Tragic Epic” in Islam
and its Cultural Divergence (1971); “The Conversion of a Self-
Conscious Elite” in Individualism and Conformity in Classical
Islam (1977); “Ahmad Kasravi and Purification of Persian: A
Study in Nationalist Motivation” in Nation and Ideology (1982);
and “Rumi, The Poet” in Mysticism and Poetry in Islam (1988).
His collaborative translation with Jascha Kessler of the poetry
of Forough Farrokhzad was published in 1982 under the title
Bride of Acacias. The same collaborative effort in 2005 yielded
a beautiful volume of translation of the poems of Tahereh, the
nineteenth century heroine of the Bábí movement, who sounded
the clarion call of emancipation of women and equality of
rights of men and women, entitled Tahereh: A Portrait in
Poetry.

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
In the course of more than thirty years of teaching at UCLA
he laid the foundation of a broad and integrated program of
Iranian Studies culminating in establishment of the first
Undergraduate Major in Iranian Studies at any American
university.
Amin Banani served on the Board of Directors of the Middle
East Studies Association of North America, the Executive
Council of the Society for Iranian Studies and as Vice President
of the American Association of Iranian Studies.
Unlike some academicians who seek their fulfillment
exclusively in their academic career, Amin Banani from the
beginning led a rich life of service in the Bahá’í community
world-wide. His global-level Bahá’í service began in the 1940s,
when he accepted assignments to represent the Bahá’í
community
at
a
UN
conference
of
nongovernmental
organizations and a human rights commission. In the early
1950s he also served as a member of National Bahá’í Youth
Committee in the United States.
In 1953 he and his wife, Sheila Wolcott, responded to the call
of Shoghi Effendi to move to countries and territories without
Bahá’ís. They moved with their first child to Greece, where they
spent five years fostering the beginnings of the Bahá’í
community. His first university teaching post was in Athens
with the Overseas Program of the University of Maryland.
During this time Amin was called by Shoghi Effendi for
further work in the United Nations to protect the rights of
Bahá’ís in Iran, ultimately being appointed in 1956 to an
international committee for defense of the Faith.
After the family’s return to the United States in 1958, the
National Spiritual Assembly appointed Amin at various times,
from the 1960s through the 2000s, to serve on the Community
Development
Committee,
Publishing
Committee,
Persian
Reviewing Board and Payam-e-Doost Governing Board. He was

In Memoriam
a delegate to the Bahá’í National Convention several times in
the 1950s and 1970s.
Over the years he was elected to Local Spiritual Assemblies
serving Bahá’í communities in California, Greece, Oregon,
Massachusetts and California again. He taught at various
sessions at Bosch, Louhelen and Green Acre Bahá’í schools; of
summer schools in the United States, England, Iran, Ireland,
Italy, Switzerland and Germany; and of the ‘Irfán Colloquium.
He was elected to the Bahá’í Assemblies of Palo Alto,
California; Athens, Greece; Portland, Oregon; Cambridge,
Massachusetts; and Santa Monica, California. He made
presentations at the ‘Irfán Colloquium sessions held at Bosch
and Louhelen Bahá’í Schools in North America and at Acuto
Center for Bahá’í Studies, Italy, in Europe. He also taught at
the Bahá’í Summer Schools in the United States, England, Iran,
Ireland, Italy, Switzerland and Germany. From 1980 to 2006 he
served as the Deputy Trustee of Ḥuqúqu’lláh, a global Bahá’í
philanthropic fund.
Amin Banani was a passionate lover of music both eastern
and western, and found much of his spiritual fulfillment in
enjoyment of that art.
He passed away on Sunday, July 28, 2013, in Santa Monica
and is buried in the Woodlawn Cemetery, Santa Monica.
The Universal House of Justice in a message of tribute
praising Amin Banani’s services says:
Whether in the pioneering or administrative fields, he
served with distinction — a service that was ever
characterized by humility and self-effacement. … [W]e
recall with heartfelt admiration and gratitude his staunch
and effective defense of the Faith, the signal
contributions he made to the advancement of both
Bahá’í and Iranian studies, and his twenty-six years of
service to the institution of Ḥuqúqu’lláh. In all respects,

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
his was a life that exemplified unwavering devotion to
the Cause and abiding commitment to its high ideals.

NOTE
1 For more information on the life history and academic achievements of
Professor Amin Banani see Professor Ehsan Yarshater’s article on Amin
Banani, Journal of Iranian Studies, Vol. 47, 2014.

Mahboubeh Arjmand
(d. 2013)



Mahboubeh Arjmand was born in the City of Hamedan in
Iran. She was the second child of Mr. Habiboullah Arjmand and
Mrs. Monireh Khanum Mobin Arjmand. Unfortunately, she lost
her mother at the age of ten and soon became the surrogate
mother of all her siblings. One can imagine how difficult this
must have been at a time when young children became seriously
ill frequently. She did not have any children of her own, but she
took care of all the children in the family as if they were her
own children. All the children in the family have very fond
memories of her, especially of the gifts and souvenirs she would
bring them every time she travelled.
Mahboubeh was a very talented person. She was a dress
designer and her specialty was bridal gowns, for which she had
earned a good reputation in Tehran. She studied hair styling and
skin care in Italy and had a good working knowledge of Italian

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
and French languages. She was extremely hospitable and
generous. Her home was always open to everyone. Family and
friends would often gather there, where there was always an
open invitation to enjoy her delicious Persian cuisine and her
pastry. She had a good sense of humor and often entertained the
family with her witty remarks.
Mahboubeh was a very devoted Bahá’í and, in her youth, was
actively engaged in Bahá’í activities in Tehran. She was proud of
her grand-father Haji Mehdi Arjmand who was a prominent
teacher of the Bahá’í Faith. She had memorized many of the
Tablets revealed in honor of her grandfather and would recite
them often. Mahboubeh Arjmand, after a period of failing
health, passed away peacefully in her own home in San Diego,
California, on September 14 2013.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, `Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice
BA
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration
BK
Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf
BP
Compilation, Bahá’í Prayers
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
CC1
Compilation of Compilations, vol.1
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
MUHJ68
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1968-1973
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PDC
Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of The Báb
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Traveler’s Narrative
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-14
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes

Appendices
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-
baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-
i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen

Appendices
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manuchehr Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization

Appendices
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Babe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

Appendices
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá `Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá `Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat
Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a
Letter from Shoghi Effendi
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh Basít al-
Haqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Lawh-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple

Appendices
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amin Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Ali Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about
God
Moojan Momen
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness
Shahbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
The New Atheism — A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Ali Nakhjavani
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the
Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Ali Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen, © 2013
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing
Celestial Fire: Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine
Fire (átar, á∂ar, átash) in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy — Theology — Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge

Appendices
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-
Ruz `Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt.
Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of
Humanity During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910 — 5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions
(Oxford: George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to
Fourteen (2000–2013)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safíni-yi ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in Persian). Books One to Sixteen,
(1998–2013)
Farah
Dustdar
(ed.),
Beiträge
des
‘Irfán–Kolloquiums:
Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in
German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í Verlag,
2004–2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalíl-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun
is the Sun) (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy-i‘-i-Ma‘ání va Tafsír (The Wonders of
Inner Meanings and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries of
`Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic Verses and Islamic Traditions
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)

Appendices
Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950 Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921 Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170 Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Lights of Irfán vol. 15
Vision and Objectives

The Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund was established in
1992 to honor Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-1941) and is dedicated
to promoting the scholarly study of the Bahá’í Faith. Haj Mehdi
Arjmand was a Persian scholar and teacher of the Bahá’í Faith
who became well known in Iran for his profound knowledge of
the Bible, Qur’an, and Bahá’í scriptures. The primary activity of
the Fund is sponsoring `Irfán Colloquium and its publications.
In 2012, benefiting from the guidance received from the
Universal House of Justice, a management board was appointed
for this fund by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of the United States to function as a Bahá’í agency and sponsor
`Irfán Colloquia, presently held in North America and Western
Europe in English, Persian and German languages.
The `Irfán Colloquium aims at promoting and supporting
systematic studies of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í
beliefs, the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith,
the interface of the Bahá’í Faith with intellectual schools of
thought and religious traditions, and looking at current
challenges in human society from the Bahá’í perspective. `Irfán
is a Persian word referring to mystical, theological and spiritual
knowledge.
As of October 2013 one hundred and twenty one sessions of
colloquia have been held. Papers in English presented or
received at the `Irfán Colloquia are annually published in a
series of volumes of the Lights of `Irfán.