THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-10-05

To all National Spiritual Assembliesdear b aháí f

dom by assassination of mr. Abdullah mogharrabi, steadfast and devoted

pioneer of the f aith to Tajikistan.

After spending the majority of his years in the cradle of the faith, serv-

ing in various teaching and administrative capacities, he left iran, upon the

advice of the institutions when his life was in danger, to settle elsewhere. he resided a few years in the united kingdom, close to his daughter, before

pioneering to Tajikistan where he had been a pillar of strength to that com-

munity since the inception of the National Spiritual Assembly in 1994.

he was the Secretary of that institution for all but one year of his time in

Tajikistan.

The manner in which he was killed leaves no doubt that the attack was

carried out by fanatical elements in the country. it is significant that in 1993 310.9

311.1

311.2

311.3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

69one of the iranian newspapers mentioned his name abusively, accusing him

of anti-i slamic activities aimed at deceiving the m uslims in Tajikistan.

he was killed during the evening of friday, 24 September 1999. The

bahá’í friends who participated with the authorities in the investigation

of his death reported that mr. mogharrabi’s hands had been tied behind

his back, he had been gagged and was forced to lie face down; there were

signs of torture over his body. he was shot in the back, the bullet piercing

his heart. his room was left untouched, and the money which he held in

various currencies was not taken. The front door to the house had been

left open, which attracted the attention of neighbors a few hours after the

incident.

his sacrifice will certainly draw fresh confirmations upon the efforts of

the bahá’í community in Tajikistan and neighboring countries. despite his

advanced age, 88, he tirelessly served the people of this country and its

bahá’í community, providing a true example to us all of devotion to the

faith. in one of his letters to the bahá’í world center some time ago, he

had expressed his desire to give his last breath as a martyr of the faith.

mr. mogharrabi’s illustrious life reminds us all of the statement made by the

blessed b eauty in the h idden w ords:

o SoN of mAN!

ponder and reflect. is it thy wish to die upon thy bed, or to shed

thy life-blood on the dust, a martyr in my path, and so become the

manifestation of my command and the revealer of my light in the

highest paradise? j udge thou aright, o servant!311-1

The house of justice prays for the progress of his soul, and extends its

loving sympathy to the members of his family. it will also supplicate on

behalf of the believers in Tajikistan, a country in which mr. mogharrabi was

proffered the crown of martyrdom.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

311-1. hw , Arabic, no. 46.311.4

311.5

311.5a

311.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

69312

Correspondence from the Bahá’í World Center

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]