THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1994-12-15

To an individual b ahá’í

dear b ahá’í f riend,

your letter of 20 September 1994 to . . . , concerning the degrees of

authority possessed by bahá’í historical sources, the process by which trans-

lations are authorized, the development of a “canon of bahá’í doctrine,”

the status of documents prepared by the research department, and your

request for various materials, was forwarded to the universal house of jus-

tice for its consideration. we are instructed to make the following reply

to your questions numbered two, three and five. The remaining questions

were referred to the research department for study. The enclosed memo-

randum and attachments represent the result of the deliberations of that

department.191.2

191.3

191.4

192.1

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

1your questions concerning translation revolve around two major issues:

the process by which new translations into the english language are autho-

rized and the authority of the translations of Shoghi effendi. we are asked

to state that a translation is regarded as authorized when it is approved by

one or more translation committees appointed by the universal house of

justice. while members of the research department may well, from time to

time, be appointed to serve on such a translation committee, the authoriza-tion of new translations is currently not one of the responsibilities assigned to the research department by the house of justice. further, the approval

of a translation does not mean that improvements or amendments cannot

be made to it in the future. As you, yourself, note, even Shoghi effendi

described his translation of the kitáb-i-íqán as

. . . one more attempt to introduce to the west, in a language however

inadequate, this book of unsurpassed pre-eminence among the writ-

ings of the Author of the bahá’í revelation. The hope is that it may

assist others in their efforts to approach what must always be regarded

as the unattainable goal—a befitting rendering of bahá’u’lláh’s match-

less utterance.

192-1

As to the policy concerning the publication of new translations of the

writings made by individual bahá’ís, we are instructed to convey the fact

that translations into english and revisions of earlier translations in that lan-

guage must be checked by a translation committee at the bahá’í world cen-

ter and officially approved for publication. while individuals are permitted

to paraphrase or describe the contents of the passages they have translated and to include them in their manuscripts, without reference to the world

center, new translations need to be submitted to the universal house of

justice for checking and approval prior to publication. The importance of

this policy lies in the fact that translations into most other languages are based on the approved english texts and are not made directly or solely from

the original texts. There have been, however, occasions when the house of

justice has permitted the publication of provisional translations made by

individuals whose work is known to it. in these cases the translations usually

192-1. kA, p. i.192.2

192.2a

192.3

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

15appear in scholarly or other publications of limited distribution and are not

likely to be used as a basis for translations into other languages.

you ask whether the translations of Shoghi effendi should be consid-

ered as the “standard” and whether, because of his function as infallible interpreter, the guardian’s translations provide “the true interpretation of

the writings.” we are asked to call attention to the introduction to The

qualities of the guardian’s translations and the fact that they “are illumined

by his uniquely inspired understanding of the purport and implications of the originals.”

192-2

in view of your observations that “the chain of interpretation is unbro-

ken, from the báb to bahá’u’lláh to ‘Abdu’l-b ahá to Shoghi effendi,” and

that “the ‘authorized’ interpretation of the writings ends with the guard-

ian,” you ask about the possibility of establishing a “canon of bahá’í doc-

trine which could then be regarded as ‘authorized’ and ‘official,’” and which would serve as a means by which “truth could be separated from falsehood

according to the divinely revealed and interpreted standard.” in this regard,

the house of justice asks us to state that, while it would be possible to

codify and cross-reference the bahá’í teachings, it would also be impor-

tant to take into account such functions assigned to the universal house

of justice in the bahá’í writings as its role in elucidating all matters “which

have not outwardly been revealed in the book” and in ensuring the essential

flexibility of the cause.

192-3

tive function, and as such differ from interpretation. The divinely inspired legislation of the house of justice does not attempt to say what the revealed

word means—it states what must be done in cases where the revealed Text

or its authoritative interpretation is not explicit. it is, therefore, on quite a

empowered to abrogate or amend its own legislation whenever it judges the

conditions make this desirable.

As to your question concerning whether the translations, compilations

and other works prepared by the research department at the bahá’í world

center should be considered as partaking in the infallibility of the universal

192-2. kA, p. 10.

192-3. Tb, p. 68.192.4

192.5

192.6

192.7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

16house of justice and, therefore, constituting the “final word,” the house

of justice indicates that such materials, though prepared at its direction,

represent the views of that department. while such views are very useful

as an aid to resolving perplexities or gaining an enhanced understanding of

the bahá’í teachings, they should never be taken to be in the same category

as the elucidations and clarifications provided by the universal house of

justice in the exercise of its assigned functions. h owever, the h ouse of j us-

tice chooses to convey the materials prepared by the research department

to the friends because it wishes them to be thoughtfully attended to and seriously considered.

we are asked to assure you of the prayers of the universal house of

justice that your services to the cause will be confirmed.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

193

Progress of Mount Carmel Projects

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]