Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Ten

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of
their authors. Reproductions from this compilation are
permitted provided that the sources and authors are clearly
indicated, with the exception of provisional translations,
which are not to be further distributed.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Ten
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Manuscript Edited by Omid Nolley
Artwork by Trey Yancy
Graphic Design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.org
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
166 B.E. 2009 C.E.
Copyright © 2009, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

Whoso hath searched the depths of the
oceans that lie hid within these exalted
words, and fathomed their import, can
be said to have discovered a glimmer of
the unspeakable glory with which this
mighty, this sublime, and most holy
Revelation hath been endowed.
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh

Table of Contents
Preface...................................................................................................... i
Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat
Amin Egea .......................................................................................... 5
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad.................................................................... 43
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi ................................................................................. 71
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel........................................................................ 107
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel........................................................................ 131
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge ........................................................................................ 149
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen.............................................................................. 275
Man Is Man: ‘Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati................................................................................. 295
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi ........................................................................................ 311
Elucidations
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice .....327
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
'Ali Nakhjávání............................................................................... 334
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts ............................................ 349
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities........................................ 351
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their abbreviations.............. 353
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Nine..................................... 355
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia....................................................363

Preface
Promotion of science and spiritual knowledge (`irfán)
is a duty and an obligation for each and every Bahá’í.*
`Abdu’l-Bahá
The organization of the annual sessions of the `Irfán
Colloquia and the publication of the successive volumes of The
Lights of `Irfán, first initiated fifteen years ago, are some
attempts towards the fulfillment of this spiritual obligation
exhorted by `Abdu’l-Bahá. Eighty five sessions of the Irfán
Colloquia have, so far, been organized in North America and
Europe and twenty five volumes of the collections of the
research papers, in English, German and Persian, presented at
various sessions of the colloquia have been published.
Furthermore, `Irfán publications include over ninety booklets
containing the abstracts of all of the presented research papers
and fifteen booklets of occasional research papers as well as
guidebooks for the study of the scriptures.
The aim of The Lights of `Irfán is publishing scholarly
studies in a variety of areas including the fundamental
principles of the Bahá’í belief system, the Writings of the
Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith, the scriptures of other
religions, as well as the interface between the Bahá’í Faith and
current intellectual and religious trends in the world, and to
address the Bahá’í perspective of major issues and challenges
faced by human society.
In 2008 `Irfán Colloquia celebrated the centenary of the
publication of Some Answered Questions of `Abdu’l-Bahá’,
hereinafter referred to as SAQ, by inviting researchers to
present papers and commentaries at the `Irfán Colloquia on
different subjects which were addressed in that book. A
number of those papers are published in the present volume.
Laura Clifford Barney-Dreyfus was instrumental in raising
most of the questions that were answered by `Abdu’l-Bahá. She
undertook to compile those answers, organize them in the form
of a book and publish them in 1908. A biographical sketch of

* Translated from Compilation on Bahá’í Education (in Persian), p 38.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
ii
Laura Barney-Dreyfus, mostly based on information from
primary sources, is published in the present volume.
“A Philosophical Perspective of Some Answered Questions”
is an attempt to identify and examine the philosophical
positions explicitly embedded in SAQ, and to point out the
philosophical foundations of the Bahá’í teachings. It further
tries to specify those philosophical views with which the
position taken in SAQ has the greatest natural affinity.
A number of chapters in SAQ are devoted to the questions
related to Biblical prophesies and various topics and verses in
the Bible. One of those topics is explored in the article on
“Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.” This article also considers
the general phenomenon of covenant-breaking in the Bahá’í
Faith and discusses a possible definition of this phenomenon.
Another subject covered in SAQ is presented in the article
on “Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality.” This
subject is one of the fundamental principles of the Bahá’í belief
system. It is elaborated on in light of the guidance given in the
Bahá’í Scriptures on the necessity of, and conditions for, the
successful search for truth.
The article on “The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religion”
is an attempt to present the relationship between the
“Manifestations of God” (prophets) and the principle of
“progressive revelation” (successive appearance of revealed
religions). This is one of the essential teachings of the Bahá’í
Faith and it is dealt with in several chapters of SAQ. The intent
of this article is to explore the Bahá’í “paradigm” of the unity
of religions and its role and function in the advancement of
civilization.
“In the Heart of All Things” is the title of an article dealing
with the idea of the heart being the site where the spiritual and
the physical meet. There are, in common use, two distinct
meanings for the concept of “heart.” One is the physical heart
and the other is a metaphorical concept of the heart. This
article explores the distinction between these two concepts and
then explains the usage of these two concepts in the Bahá’í
scriptures and reaches the conclusion that the heart is the organ
(or the instrument) for spiritual experiences.
A unique explanation of the issue of creation versus
evolution that was given by `Abdu’l-Bahá, at the beginning of
the twentieth century, and published in this book, is elaborated

Preface iii
on in the article entitled “Man is Man: `Abdu’l-Bahá on Human
Evolution.” Scientific research and discoveries since that time
have increasingly supported the validity of the solution
presented in this book.
One of the themes expounded in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Wisdom (Law˙-i-Óikmat) is the way in which philosophical
wisdom is ultimately dependent on revealed religion and “the
essence and the fundamentals of philosophy have emanated
from the Prophets.” The article entitled “Further Comments on
a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat” demonstrates that ancient
records and modern scholarship provide an enormous amount
of information about a possible transmission of ideas from
Eastern religions into Greek philosophical thought.
The section on Elucidations opens with a clarifying article
by Mr. Ali Nakhjavani on the Ministry of the Universal House
of Justice. This article provides well-documented answers and
explanations of a series of questions and issues related to the
ministry of the Universal House of Justice in the absence of the
Guardian, such as the timing of its election, the limits of the
sphere
of
its
jurisdiction,
and
the
wide
range
of
responsibilities and enactments the Universal House of Justice.
The above topic is also elucidated in the “Comments on the
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice” issued by the
Universal House of Justice.
The taxonomy of the Bahá’í sacred texts, which is the basis
of textual studies and documentation, is clarified in the letter
of the Universal House of Justice on “The Classification of the
Bahá’í Sacred Texts” that differentiates between various
categories of the Writings by the Central Figures of the Bahá’í
Faith.
A recently issued letter by the Universal House of Justice on
the Promotion and Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
completes the section on Elucidations. This letter provides
welcome support and reinforcement for the activities and
services of the ‘Irfán Colloquium and its publications.
Starting with Book Six we have adopted two changes in the
‘Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix I, “Bibliography of
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Second, the Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e.
quotations from the Sacred Writings (not including statements

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
iv
by Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are
italicized.
All papers in this volume present the views and
understandings of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. The writing styles and
scholarly approaches are, therefore, different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the authors’ last names.
Iraj Ayman
Chicago May 2009

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-
Óikmat
Amin Egea
Introduction
One of the themes expounded in the Law˙-i-Óikmat — a
Tablet of the ‘Akká period revealed in honour of Nabíl-i-Akbar
— is the way in which philosophical wisdom is ultimately
dependent on revealed religion. Bahá’u’lláh states:
The sages aforetime acquired their knowledge from the
Prophets, inasmuch as the latter were the Exponents of
divine philosophy and the Revealers of heavenly
mysteries. Men quaffed the crystal, living waters of
Their utterance, while others satisfied themselves with
the dregs. Everyone receiveth a portion according to
his measure. Verily He is the Equitable, the Wise.
Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh adds that “the essence and the
fundamentals of philosophy have emanated from the Prophets”.
This principle is illustrated with some examples from well-
known figures of classical philosophy:
Empedocles, who distinguished himself in philosophy,
was a contemporary of David, while Pythagoras lived
in the days of Solomon, son of David, and acquired
Wisdom from the treasury of prophethood. It is he
who claimed to have heard the whispering sound of the
heavens and to have attained the station of the angels.
In truth thy Lord will clearly set forth all things, if He
pleaseth. Verily, He is the Wise, the All-Pervading.
Consider Hippocrates, the physician. He was one of
the eminent philosophers who believed in God and
acknowledged His sovereignty. After him came
Socrates who was indeed wise, accomplished and
righteous. He practised self-denial, repressed his
appetites for selfish desires and turned away from
material pleasures. He withdrew to the mountains

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
where he dwelt in a cave. He dissuaded men from
worshipping idols and taught them the way of God, the
Lord of Mercy, until the ignorant rose up against him.
They arrested him and put him to death in prison. Thus
relateth to thee this swift-moving Pen. What a
penetrating vision into philosophy this eminent man
had! He is the most distinguished of all philosophers
and was highly versed in wisdom. We testify that he is
one of the heroes in this field and an outstanding
champion dedicated unto it. He had a profound
knowledge of such sciences as were current amongst
men as well as of those which were veiled from their
minds. Methinks he drank one draught when the Most
Great Ocean overflowed with gleaming and life-giving
waters. He it is who perceived a unique, a tempered,
and a pervasive nature in things, bearing the closest
likeness to the human spirit, and he discovered this
nature to be distinct from the substance of things in
their refined form. He hath a special pronouncement
on this weighty theme. Wert thou to ask from the
worldly wise of this generation about this exposition,
thou wouldst witness their incapacity to grasp it.
Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth but most people
comprehend not.
After Socrates came the divine Plato who was a pupil
of the former and occupied the chair of philosophy as
his successor. He acknowledged his belief in God and in
His signs which pervade all that hath been and shall be.
Then
came
Aristotle,
the
well-known
man
of
knowledge. He it is who discovered the power of
gaseous matter. These men who stand out as leaders of
the people and are pre-eminent among them, one and all
acknowledged their belief in the immortal Being Who
holdeth in His grasp the reins of all sciences.1
Nabíl-i-Akbar was probably not unfamiliar with this
correlation between ancient Greek philosophy and the Jewish
religion. In fact, as Bahá’u’lláh states, He is following “some
accounts of the sages”, accounts that actually represent a long
historiographical Muslim tradition of which Abu’l-Fat-i-
Sháhristání (1076–1153 CE) and Imádu’d-Dín Abu’l-Fidá (1273–
1331 CE) — from whose histories Bahá’u’lláh seems to quote —
are two representatives.

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

For a Western reader, however, the implications of the
words of Bahá’u’lláh may pose a challenge to the long-standing
assumption that Greek philosophy — considered for many the
bedrock of Western civilization — developed in the absence of
any influence from foreign religions or philosophical schools.
Three decades ago, Juan Cole presented some of the Muslim
sources of this tradition pointing also to a chronological
inconsistence from the perspective of modern scholarship in
regards to the statement about Empedocles and Pythagoras2.
More recently, Peter Terry approached the subject from a
different angle and, aside from analysing the Muslim sources —
adding more to the list presented by Cole — left room for a
literal reading of this tradition in the context of the fragility of
ancient chronologies and the infallibility of Bahá’u’lláh as the
Manifestation of God3. Both positions represent, to some
extent, the sides of the dialogue that over the years has been held
among Bahá’í scholars in formal and informal discussions
about the historicity of the tradition.
The focus in the chronological issues of the Tablet has, to a
certain extent, deviated attention from the theme presented by
Bahá’u’lláh, that “the essence and the fundamentals of
philosophy have emanated from the Prophets”. Whether such
transmission really happened and, if so, where and how it can
be traced, are issues independent of the chronological
plausibility of the tradition quoted by Bahá’u’lláh regarding
Empedocles and Pythagoras.
Moreover, other questions may rise that seem important for
a deeper appreciation of the theme underlying this section of
the Tablet of Wisdom. Was this transmission limited only to
the sages mentioned in the Law˙-i-Óikmat or did it extend to
other philosophers and other schools of ancient philosophy in
the West? Did such transmission from revealed religion to
Greek philosophy occur only via Judaism or had other origins
as well?
This presentation does not intend to fill these gaps but it
will try, however tentatively, to examine some of the ancient
sources that may allow for the idea of foreign religious inputs
into the development of Greek philosophy. It will also survey
some of the conclusions that present-day scholarship has to
offer about this subject and lastly it will suggest some links
between ancient and Muslim sources for the tradition under
review.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Greek philosophy and Persia
Ancient Greek literature offers a large amount of accounts
about Zoroaster, Persian religion and the practices and
customs of the Magi as is shown by Franz Cumont and Joseph
Bidez in their monumental Les Mages Hellénisés4. More
recently, Albert de Jong has synthesised some Greek and Latin
sources offering an interesting picture of the Persian religion
as it was seen in ancient times5.
The oldest known Greek record about Zoroastrianism
belongs to the book Lydiaka. In a particular section known as
Magika (On the Magi) its author, the Lydian historian Xanthus
(fifth century BCE), mentioned Zoroaster in connection with
the doctrines of the Persians6 and placed him six thousand
years before the second of the Graeco-Persian wars7.
Unfortunately, only a few lines of his work have survived in the
books of Clement of Alexandria and Diogenes Laertius, among
others. A cotemporary of Xanthus, the historian Herodotus
(484-425 BCE), despite not mentioning Zoroaster by name, also
paid some attention to the religious customs of the Persians in
his History. The interest for the religion of Zoroaster and the
Magi was to be present throughout the history of Greek
literature and thought.
That there was some knowledge of Zoroastrianism at that
stage should not come as a surprise. The Ionian region, on the
Aegean coast of the Anatolian peninsula, was always under the
influence of the neighbouring Persian Empire. Eventually (545
BCE) the entire region became subjugated to the Persians.
Other evidence, moreover, reveals that during the Achaemenid
dynasty the Magi were established well inside territory under
the Greek cultural orbit. For instance, in Dascylium (modern
Ergili, Turkey), a bas-relief from the fifth century BCE shows a
group of Magi performing a ritual. Historical accounts
mention also that a temple dedicated to Anahita was built by
Cyrus in Lydia8.
This contact between both civilizations in Ionia is of
particular relevance to our subject, especially when considering
that during the sixth and fifth centuries BCE the region was a
crucible where the first philosophical ideas of the Western
world were developing in places such as Miletus or Ephesus.
The earliest preserved record explicitly linking a particular
philosopher to Zoroastrianism can be dated back to the fourth

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

century BCE. Aristoxenus of Tarentum, a disciple of Aristotle
with interest in Pythagorean ideas, wrote a biography of
Pythagoras which was subsequently used by later biographers9.
One of the few fragments that have survived for us is quoted by
Hippolytus (170-236 CE) who quotes Aristoxenus together with
an unknown Diodorus the Eretrian, stating that “Pythagoras
came to Zaratas10, the Chaldean”11 who imparted to him a
doctrine that clearly resembles Persian dualism.
Evidently,
Zoroaster
and
Pythagoras
were
not
contemporaries. Aristoxenus’ statement is, however, the
expression of a firmly rooted tradition, transmitted in
different versions, according to which Pythagoras learnt the
doctrines of the Zoroastrians from the Magi in Babylonia or
from their prophet Himself. As Kingsley convincingly shows,
even the dating by some Greek historians of Zoroaster in the
sixth century BCE may have been the result of an effort to make
Him coincide in time with Pythagoras12.
All the surviving biographies of Pythagoras agree in this
influence into his thought. Thus, Diogenes Laertius (probably
third century CE), the author of the Lives and opinions of
eminent philosophers, states that “… [Pythagoras] was a young
man, and devoted to learning, he quitted his country, and got
initiated into all the Grecian and barbarian sacred mysteries.
Accordingly, he went to Egypt, on which occasion Polycrates
gave him a letter of introduction to Amasis; and he learnt the
Egyptian language, as Antipho tells us in his treatise on those
men who have been conspicuous for virtue, and he associated
with the Chaldaeans and with the Magi.”13
The Neoplatonic Porphyry of Tyre (233-305 CE) wrote in his
Life of Pythagoras that the sage, while in Babylon, “associated
with the other Chaldeans, especially attaching himself to
Zaratus, by whom he was purified from the pollutions of his
past life, and taught the things from which a virtuous man
ought to be free. Likewise he heard lectures about Nature, and
the principles of wholes. It was from his stay among these
foreigners that Pythagoras acquired the great part of his
wisdom.”14
In discussing Pythagoras’ thought, Porphyry also states that
he learnt from the Magi “secrets concerning the course of life”15
and adds the following: “Such things taught he, thought
advising above all things to speak the truth, for this alone
deifies men. For as he had learned from the Magi, who call God

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Horomazda, God’s body is like light, and his soul is like
truth.”16
Iamblichus (250-325 CE), a disciple of Porphyry and one of
the outstanding figures of Neoplatonism, states in his
biography of the Samian that in his search for wisdom
Pythagoras travelled to Egypt and afterwards to Babylon where
he met the Magi: “He was taken captive [from Egypt] by the
soldiers of Cambyses, and carried off to Babylon. Here he was
overjoyed to be associated with the Magi, who instructed him
in their venerable knowledge, and in the most perfect worship
of the Gods. Through their assistance, likewise, he studied and
completed arithmetic, music and all other sciences. After
twelve years, about the fifty-sixth year of his age, he returned
to Samos.”17
While describing the teachings of Pythagoras, Iamblichus
mentions, moreover, that “his divine philosophy and worship
was compound, having learned much from the Orphic
followers, but much also from the Egyptian priests, the
Chaldeans and Magi…”. He also links some of the Pythagorean
rules with Zoroastrian practices: “The bodies of the dead he did
not suffer to be burned, herein following the Magi, being
unwilling that anything (so) divine (as fire) should be mingled
with mortal nature. He thought it holy for the dead to be
carried out in white garments; thereby obscurely prefiguring
the simple and first nature, according to number, and the
principle of all things.”18
Besides his biographers19, many other Greek and Latin
authors mention in their writings a sojourn of Pythagoras with
the Magi. Cicero (106-43 CE)20, Valerius Maximus (first
century CE)21 and Philostratus (170-247 CE)22 are some Latin
examples. The Platonic philosopher Apuleius (124?-170? CE)
makes a comment similar to that written later by Iamblichus:
“There are some who assert that Pythagoras was about this time
carried to Egypt among the captives of King Cambyses, and
studied under the magi of Persia, more especially under
Zoroaster the priest of all holy mysteries; later they assert he
was ransomed by a certain Gillus, King of Croton.”23
The Christian teacher Clement of Alexandria (?-215 CE) also
mentions this connection and affirms that: “He [Pythagoras]
held converse with the chief of the Chaldean and the Magi; and
he gave a hint of the church, now so called, in the common hall
which he maintained”24.

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

Another pre-Socratic philosopher who is linked with Persia
in ancient sources is Democritus (460-370 BCE), one of the
earliest, probably the first, of the atomists. Historian Claudius
Aelianus (second century CE) mentions that “it is reported that
Democritus the Abderite was wise, besides other things, in
desiring to live unknown, and that he wholly endeavoured it. In
pursuit whereof he travelled to many countries; he went to the
Chaldeans, and to Babylon, and to the Magi, and to the Indian
Sophists.”25
Furthermore, in an interesting text in which fragments from
Democritus are quoted, Clement of Alexandria states:
… pluming himself on his erudition, he says, “I have
roamed over the most ground of any man of my time,
investigating the most remote parts. I have seen the
most skies and lands, and I have heard of learned men
in very great numbers. And in composition no one has
surpassed me; in demonstration, not even those among
the Egyptians who are called Arpenodaptæ, with all of
whom I lived in exile up to eighty years.” For he went to
Babylon, and Persia, and Egypt, to learn from the Magi
and the priests.26
Diogenes Laertius begins his biography on Democritus stating
the following:
[Democritus] was the son of Hegesistratus, but as
some say, of Athenocrites, and, according to other
accounts, of Damasippus. He was a native of Abdera,
or, as it is stated by some authors, a citizen of
Miletus.
He was a pupil of some of the Magi and Chaldaeans,
whom Xerxes had left with his father as teachers, when
he had been hospitably received by him, as Herodotus
informs us; and from these men he, while still a boy,
learned the principles of astronomy and theology.
Afterwards, his father entrusted him to Leucippus, and
to Anaxagoras, as some authors assert, who was forty
years older than he… And Demetrius in his treatise on
‘People of the same Name’, and Antisthenes in his
‘Successions’, both affirm that he travelled to Egypt to
see the priests there, and to learn mathematics of them;
and that he proceeded further to the Chaldeans, and
penetrated into Persia, and went as far as the Persian
Gulf. Some also say that he made acquaintance with the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Gymnosophists in India, and that he went to
Aethiopia.27
Empedocles is also said to have visited the Magi. Thus, in his
biography on Apollonius of Tyana, Philostratus (179-247 CE)
states:
“For
Empedocles
and
Pythagoras
himself
and
Democritus consorted with wizards [magoi] and uttered many
supernatural truths, yet never stooped to the black art…”28
Diogenes Laertius quotes the following about Socrates:
“Aristotle tells us that a certain one of the Magi came from
Syria to Athens, and blamed Socrates for many parts of his
conduct, and also foretold that he would come to a violent
death.”29 Similarly the pseudo-Platonic work Axiochus (c. 300
BCE) portrays Socrates as saying that he learnt about the
existence of an afterlife from the Magi Gobryas, grandson of a
companion of Xerxes.
Plato, Socrates’ pupil, is also said to have had some interest
for Persian religion. Seneca (4 BCE-65 CE), for instance,
explains that at the time of his passing, Plato was accompanied
by a group of Magi30. Diogenes Laertius states that “Plato had
also formed the idea of making the acquaintance of the Magi;
but he abandoned it on account of the wars in Asia.”31
Clement, mistakenly following one of the many pseudo-
Zoroastrian works that circulated during his time, identifies
Er, the personage of a late Platonic myth present in the
Republic, with Zoroaster32:
And the same [Plato], in the tenth book of the
Republic, mentions Eros the son of Armenius, who is
Zoroaster. Zoroaster, then, writes: “These were
composed by Zoroaster, the son of Armenius, a
Pamphylian by birth: having died in battle, and been in
Hades, I learned them of the gods.” This Zoroaster,
Plato says, having been placed on the funeral pyre, rose
again to life in twelve days. He alludes perchance to the
resurrection, or perchance to the fact that the path for
souls to ascension lies through the twelve signs of the
zodiac; and he himself says, that the descending
pathway to birth is the same. In the same way we are to
understand the twelve labours of Hercules, after which
the soul obtains release from this entire world.33
Dealing also with the myth of Er, Proclus informs of a
certain Colotes, a third century BCE Epicurean, who

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

questioned the originality of the myth in his anti-Platonic
polemics and accused Plato of plagiarism from Zoroastrian
ideas34.
Clement also notes that “it is well known that Plato is found
perpetually celebrating the barbarians, remembering that both
himself and Pythagoras learned the most and the noblest of
their dogmas among the barbarians. Wherefore he also called
the
races
of
the
barbarians,
‘races
of
barbarian
philosophers’…”35
Another Christian writer, Lactantius (260-330 CE), asserted:
“Whence I am accustomed to wonder that, when Pythagoras,
and after him Plato, inflamed with the love of searching out the
truth, had penetrated as far as to the Egyptians, and Magi, and
Persians, that they might become acquainted with their
religious rites and institutions (for they suspected that wisdom
was concerned with religion), they did not approach the Jews
only, in whose possession alone it then was, and to whom they
might have gone more easily.”36
In the twentieth century, scholars in the field of classical
studies, ancient history and Greek and Latin philology have
done important research into the Eastern influences on Greek
thought. In some cases this research has confirmed some of the
ancient records quoted above and in others it has offered new
and fascinating theories. This interest for the Oriental
influence on Greek thought rose partly after the reconstruction
by Jaeger of some parts of a lost work by Aristotle. Jaeger’s
conclusions followed by the publication of Les Mages
Hellenises and Bidez’s Eos ou Platon et l’Orient shook some of
the assumptions held at the time in Western scholarship and
opened a whole new vista in the field of classical studies.
The most important intellectual achievement of the pre-
Socratics was to arrive to the notion of the existence of a
universal principle or arkhé, from which all existence is derived
and to which all existence can be reduced. Interestingly, there is
evidence enough to conclude that at least in the case of some of
the pre-Socratics this idea of an arkhé may had its origin in
Persian religion.
While Pherecydes is not generally included as one of the pre-
Socratics his was at least a role of transition between the
mythical thinkers and the early philosophers. He is also said to
have been the first Greek author to write in prose. Martin L.
West37 notes that some features of Pherecydes’ system had no

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
precedent in Greek thought but rather seem to have some
counterparts in Persia and India. Pherecydes’ conception of
Chronos would be one case: “Pherecydes’s Time, like Zurván
and Kála, always existed. He too creates out of his seed,
without a consort, we don’t know exactly how. Our world is
fashioned not by him but by Zas [i.e. Zeus]. Zas, it is true,
does not spring from Chronos’s seed… Pherecydes prefers to
say that he too always existed, and that again has Iranian
parallels.”38
Anaximander’s (610-546 BCE) astronomy is also thought to
have certain elements of Iranian origin39. He seems to be the
first Greek in ordering the celestial bodies — with doctrinal
rather than astronomical purposes — in the sequence ‘stars-
moon-sun’ placing therefore the stars in the first place above
the earth: “…the stars were hoop-like compressions of air, full
of fire, breathing out flames at a certain point from orifices.
The sun was highest of all, after it came the moon, and below
these the fixed stars and the planets.”40
This scheme has parallels only in Persian religion and it is
possible to find Avesta and Pahlavi texts where this order is
reproduced in different contexts, such as descriptions of the
ascension of the soul. In some cases, a fourth level above the
sun, the ‘endless stars’, is added41:
… for in the Dámdád Nask it is revealed that when they
sever the consciousness of men it goes out to the
nearest fire, then out to the stars, then out to the
moon, and then out to the sun; and it is needful that
the nearest fire, which is that to which it has come out,
should become stronger. (Sháyást Lá- Sháyást 12.5,)42
…’Thereupon, when Ohrmazd had produced the
material (dahisno) of Zartosht, the glory then, in the
presence of Ohrmazd, fled on towards the material of
Zartosht, on to that germ; from that germ it fled on,
on to the light which is endless; from the light which is
endless it fled on, on to that of the sun; from that of
the sun it fled on, on to the moon; from that moon it
fled on, on to those stars; from those stars it fled on,
on to the fire which was in the house of Zoish; and
from that fire it fled on, on to the wife of
Frahimrvana-zoish, when she brought forth that girl
who became the mother of Zartosht.’ (Denkard, 7.2.3)43

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

I announce (and) carry out (this Yasna) for these places
and these lands… and for the stars, moon, and sun, and
for the eternal stars without beginning, and self-
disposing, and for all the Asha-sanctified creatures of
Spenta Mainyu, male and female, the regulators of
Asha. (Yasna 1.16)44
And we sacrifice to all the springs of water, and to the
water-streams as well, and to growing plants, and
forest-trees, and to the entire land and heaven, and to
all the stars, and to the moon and sun, even to all the
lights without beginning (to their course). (Yasna
71.9)45
We worship the good, strong, beneficent Fravashis of
the faithful, who showed their paths to the stars, the
moon, the sun, and the endless lights, that had stood
before for a long time in the same place, without
moving forwards, through the oppression of the
Daevas and the assaults of the Daevas. (Yasht, 13.57)46
Interestingly, Anaximander’s arkhé and key concept of the
Infinite or Boundless (to apeiron)47, shares also some of the
features of the Persian ‘endless stars’48. Both are designated as
the principles of all things, are ‘self-disposing’, and have a fixed
duration49.
All these coincidences induce West to state that:
“Anaximander’s conceptions cannot be derived from Greek
antecedents, and to suppose that they chanced to burgeon in
his mind without antecedents, at the very moment when the
Persians were knocking at Ionian doors, would be as
preposterous as it was pointless.”50
Just as fire plays a major role in Zoroastrian doctrine, for
the Ephesian Heraclitus (540-475 BCE) fire it is the arkhé of all
things:
This world, which is the same for all, no one of gods or
men has made; but it was ever, is now and ever shall be
an ever-living fire, with measures kindling and
measures going out. (Fr. 30)
All things are exchanged for Fire, and Fire for all things,
even as wares for gold, and gold for wares. (Fr. 90)51
It is in fragments like these that Duchesne-Guillemin sees
connections between the Heraclitean fire and Zoroaster’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Asha. Both fires play the role of cosmological principles, both
share also eschatological implications (“fire in its advance will
judge and convict all things”, fr.66) and both inspire the deeds
of men52. West points to several other coincidences between
Zoroastrian and Heraclitean ideas some of which can be
mentioned here 53:
Treatment of corpses:
Fr. 96
Corpses
are
more fit to be
cast out than
dung.

Vendidad 3.8
O Maker of the material world, thou Holy
one! Which is the second place where the
Earth feels sorest grief? Ahura Mazda
answered: ‘It is the place wherein most
corpses of dogs and of men lie buried.’
The souls of the dead can smell:
Fr. 98
Souls smell in
Hades (hell).

Yasht 25-32
At the end of the third night, O holy
Zarathustra! when the dawn appears, it
seems to the soul of the faithless one as if
it were brought amidst snow and stench,
and as if a wind were blowing from the
region of the north, from the regions of
the north, a foul-scented wind, the
foulest-scented of all the winds in the
world.
And it seems to the soul of the wicked
man as if he were inhaling that wind with
the nostrils, and he thinks: ‘Whence does
that wind blow, the foulest-scented wind
that I ever inhaled with my nostrils?’
Non-adoration of figures:
Fr. 5
And they pray to these images, as if one were to talk with a
man’s house, knowing not what gods or heroes are.

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

The philosopher and mathematician Whitehead once
described philosophy as a series of footnotes to Plato, a
statement that well describes the magnitude of the influence
Plato has had on Western thought. For some modern scholars
however, Plato drunk, in turn, from Eastern systems of
thought, particularly Persian religion. As has already been
noted, even some ancient sources point to that direction.
In 1923, Jaeger published his Aristotle, Fundamentals of the
history of his development. In its fourth chapter, the German
scholar reconstructs from different fragments part of the ideas
presented in a lost early Aristotelian work, On Philosophy (peri
philosophia), which “holds a unique place in Aristotle’s
development”54. As the title portrays this piece — originally
presented in dialogue form — contained Aristotle’s ideas on
philosophy and its history. His thesis was that “the same truths
reappear in human history, not merely once or twice but
indefinitely often”55. Following a chronological order Aristotle
deals first with some Eastern forms of thought, including
Zoroastrianism, and proceeds afterwards with the Greek sages.
A fragment from On Philosophy dealing with the Magi
survives in Diogenes’ Lives. In it, Aristotle assimilates the
Persian divinities with the Greek. Diogenes, in turn, compares
this view with that of other authors:
But Aristotle, in the first book of his Treatise on
Philosophy, says, that the Magi are more ancient than
the Egyptians; and that according to them there are
two principles, a good demon and an evil demon, and
that the name of the one is Jupiter or Oromasdes, and
that of the other Pluto or Arimanius. And Hermippus
gives the same account in the first book of his History
of the Magi; and so does Eudoxus in his Period; and so
does Theopompus in the eighth book of his History of
the Affairs of Philip; and this last writer tells us also,
that according to the Magi men will have a resurrection
and be immortal, and that what exists now will exist
hereafter under its own present name; and Eudemus of
Rhodes coincides in this statement.56
In another fragment, contained in Pliny’s Natural History,
Aristotle is reported as giving a date for Zoroaster: “Eudoxus,
who wished it to be thought that the most famous and most
beneficial of the philosophical sects was that of the Magi, tells

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
us that this Zoroaster lived 6,000 years before the death of
Plato. Aristotle says the same.”57
This fragment proofs some knowledge of the Persian
division of time in intervals of 3,000 years, successively ruled
by Ahura Mazda and Angra Mainyu. By placing Plato as a
reference for dating Zoroaster, Aristotle is establishing a link
between both. Plato’s doctrine is thus represented as the
cyclical return of ancient doctrines brought first by Zoroaster.
In a section of Metaphysics58, moreover, Aristotle mentions
the Magi as an intellectual precedent in discussing Plato’s
dualism. This remarkable fact seems to further corroborate
Jaeger’s theory which was afterwards accepted by other
scholars like Nyberg59, Bidez60 and Cumont61 among many
others. With all this evidence Jaeger states that “the Academy’s
enthusiasm for Zarathustra amounted to intoxication…It
heightened the historical self-consciousness of the school to
think that Plato’s doctrine of the Good as a divine and
universal principle had been revealed to eastern humanity by an
Oriental prophet thousands of years before.”62
Eudoxus of Cnidus (408-355 BCE), mentioned earlier, has
been identified by some as the possible channel for this
transmission. He was well versed in Chaldean astronomy and is
said by ancient sources to have performed extended travels. His
role in the Academy was not minor and during an absence of
Plato, he even assumed its direction. His origin from Cnidus is
of especial importance since the place had significant
connections with the Persian Empire63. There is further
evidence of students in the Academy of ‘Chaldean’ origin64.
On the other hand, it must be noted that the Magi living in
the Western part of the Persian Empire soon assimilated
Babylonian religion and science. These Magi, or best called
Maguseans, incorporated into the Persian religion notions of
astrology, astronomy and other concepts that were alien to
what was professed by the Magi in the East. Thus, with the
expansion of the Persian territory, its religion evolved into a
Babylonian version. It is the Magusean’s heterogeneous version
of Persian religion that later philosophers like Eudoxus may
have encountered. This may explain the use of the Semitic name
‘Zaratas’ for Zoroaster as well as the ancient notion of
Zoroaster as a Chaldean astrologer or the many references to
Chaldean Magi. It is difficult, therefore, to segregate what was
purely Zoroastrian from what was Babylonian in the doctrines
incorporated into his thought by Plato65.

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

The myth of Er66 may stand as an example of such a
phenomenon. It contains an imagery that is clearly Babylonian
in origin but includes, at the same time, eschatological
elements that may be traced till the Avesta67. Similarly, the
Phaedrus — a work with strong Babylonian influences as can be
gathered from its many astrological elements — also contains
some elements that can be found in works circulated by the
Maguseans68.
At some point in the Statesman Plato uses a myth involving
the god Chronos to explain why humans are mortals. For this
purpose, Plato goes on to use a rich set of dualistic concepts.
While Bidez does not rule out the possibility of an influence on
Plato from Empedocles, in any case he seems to agree with
Reitzenstein in ascribing a Persian origin to some of the
elements present in the myth: “The idea that generation depends
on the movement of stars; the reference to the earthborn men
with no offspring; the intercalation in between each of the
great periods of Time of moments of catastrophic oscillations
and earthquakes, when stars suffer chaotic perturbations and
collide in a way similar to the fight described in the Bundahishn
(with the zodiac commanded by Ormurzd and the planets
leaded by Ahriman placed face to face); and last but foremost
the hypothesis envisaged at some point by Plato of the
alternative predominance of a god of Good and a god of Evil,
such are the principal elements of the myth that can make the
pan-Iranian thesis plausible.”69
In addition to the Statesman, there are also clear
occurrences of this dualism in Timaeus, Laws and Epinomis:
And therefore, since we now claim that, as the soul is
cause of the whole, and all good things are causes of
like things, while on the other hand evil things are
causes of other things like them, it is no marvel that
soul should be cause of all motion and stirring — that
the motion and stirring towards the good are the
function of the best soul, and those to the opposite are
the opposite — it must be that good things have
conquered and conquer things that are not their like.
(Epinomis, 988d)70
…and since He perceived that all soul that is good
naturally tends always to benefit, but the bad to
injure, — observing all this, He designed a location for
each of the parts, wherein it might secure the victory of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
goodness in the Whole and the defeat of evil most
completely, easily, and well. (Laws, X 904b)71
One soul, is it, or several? I will answer for you —
“several.” Anyhow, let us assume not less than two —
the beneficent soul and that which is capable of
effecting results of the opposite kind. (Laws, X 896e)72
When analysed against the background of Aristotle’s
statement in On Philosophy and in Metaphysics, these texts
become appealing arguments in support of the thesis that the
Platonic thought of the late period, which incorporates into its
system a form of dualism of opposites which is so
characteristic of Plato’s doctrine, may have its intellectual
origins nowhere else than in Persian religion73.
The Greek notion of the human body as a microcosm
presenting in itself the order or parts of the greater cosmos
appears in a particular passage of Plato’s writings74. This is a
concept on which there is a consensus in that it has a Persian
parallel in the Greater Bundahishn75 but opinions differ when
establishing who first incorporated this idea. Duchesne-
Guillemin sees rather an influence into Persian religion from
Greece or from India76 and adduces, among other reasons, the
later date of the Bundahishn. On the other hand, Bidez,
following Göetz, believed in an influence in the opposite
direction and considered the passage in the Bundahishn as likely
having its origin in the Avesta. In this way, the pseudo-
Hippocratic Peri Ebdomádon (On the weeks), where this
notion is also present, and the Platonic Timaeus may have
drunk from the doctrine reproduced later in the Greater
Bundahishn which would have reached Greece through the
Cnidean physicians serving the Persian kings77.
Against the theories linking Plato with the East, other
authors like Koster, Festugière, Spoerri and Dodds78 deny or at
least suspend the possibility that Plato ever incorporated
Persian doctrines into his thought. The arguments put forth
are varied, but a common feature is that they rely mostly, it
should be noted, on distinct interpretations of Platonic
thought rather than on alternative comparisons between
Persian and Platonic texts. In some cases, it has been rightly
noted that some of the Platonic doctrines that Bidez and others
have traced back to Persia have instead immediate precedents
in Greek soil and especially in Pythagoras but have avoided the

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

question of where Pythagoras or others acquired those ideas
from.
Regardless of how indebted Plato was to Zoroaster’s
religion, it is manifest that a considerable interest for the
Persian religion aroused in his Academy. Two of Plato’s
disciples, Hermodorus of Syracuse and Heraclides of Pontus
are said to have written works dealing with the Eastern religion
or at least entitled under the name of its founder. As has
already been noted, two other disciples of Plato, Aristotle and
Eudoxus, proved to have some knowledge of the Zoroastrian
doctrines.
The Alexandrian conquests strengthened Greek and Persian
cultures and a large amount of documentation about the
Zoroastrian
religion
began
to
proliferate.
Books
on
astronomy, astrology, botany and mineralogy79 ascribed to the
Prophet Himself or to the semi-legendary Magi Ostanes,
perhaps parts of the Avesta80 and philosophy treaties
summarizing some of the Zoroastrian doctrines became more
and more available in the Greek world. According to Plyny the
Elder, Hermippus of Smyrna (third century BCE) compiled
over two million lines of Zoroastrian texts81. These apocryphal
books — the work of Maguseans in most cases — had in turn an
impact on the neo-Pythagorean, neo-Platonic and Stoic schools
as well as on Hellenistic Judaism82.
Greek philosophy and the Jewish religion
Today, it is widely recognized that ancient Greek mythology
and theology received a notable input from Semitic ideas and
imagery — particularly from Phoenicia and Babylonia — in the
second and the end of the first millennium BCE83. Traditionally
however, the possibility of a later Jewish influence on Greek
culture has been overlooked or considered by many as simply an
invention by Jewish and Christian apologists.
Just as was the case with Persian religion, ancient Greek and
Latin literature provide a no less relevant catalogue of records
concerning Judaism84. Many of those records are the
manifestations of the antisemitic trends that had started in
Alexandria during the second century BCE and invaded the
Roman Empire. As a consequence, a second type of records
covers the apologetic efforts of Jewish and Christian scholars

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
to lessen the effect of the many defamations circulating at the
time.
There is, however, a third category of ancient records. These
have a rather positive tone, comprise the earliest mentions to
Jewish religion and, therefore, precede and are independent of
any later vituperative or apologetic literature. As Martin
Hengel has noted “…the earliest Greek witnesses, for all their
variety, present a relatively uniform picture: they portray the
Jews as a people of ‘philosophers’. From this it is clear that the
intellectual ‘encounter’ between Greeks and Jews did not take
place only from the Jewish side, and that the Greeks took and
interest in meeting this people with its religion that sounded so
‘philosophical’”.85
To a certain extent these records implicitly assumed that an
exchange of ideas from the Hebraic world into the Greek was a
matter of fact. It is in this context that some classic authors
held a respect for the Jewish religion as an ancient and
influential philosophical system of thought just as it happened,
as has been shown previously, with Persian religion.
One of the earliest Greek accounts on the practices of the
Jews is attributed to one of Aristotle’s disciples, Theophratus
(372-287 BCE)86, who in discussing about sacrifices portrays
the Jews as a philosophical people: “During this whole time,
being philosophers by race, they converse with each other about
the deity, and at night-time they make observations of the
stars, gazing at them and calling on God by prayer. They were
the first to institute sacrifices both of other living beings and
of themselves; yet they did it by compulsion and not from
eagerness for it.”87
Origen tells us about a now lost work by Hecateus of Abdera
(fourth century BCE) dedicated to the Jewish religion: “And
there is extant a work by the historian Hecataeus, treating of
the Jews, in which so high a character is bestowed upon that
nation for its learning, that Herennius Philo, in his treatise on
the Jews, has doubts in the first place, whether it is really the
composition of the historian; and says, in the second place,
that if really his, it is probable that he was carried away by the
plausible nature of the Jewish history, and so yielded his assent
to their system.”88
Megasthenes (c. 300 BCE), who spent some years in India
where he was at the service of Seleucus Nicator I, is quoted
from his book Indica as stating that: “All the opinions

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

expressed by the ancients about nature are found also among
the philosophers outside Greece, some among the Indian
Brahmans and others in Syria among those called Jews”89.
Pythagoras was said to also have had contacts with the Jews.
Some fragments by the Peripatetic historian Hermippus of
Smyrna (third century BCE) and preserved by Josephus and
Origen point in that direction. The reference quoted by
Josephus is from Hermippus’ De Pythagora:
Pythagoras, therefore, of Samos, lived in very ancient
times, and was esteemed a person superior to all
philosophers in wisdom and piety towards God. Now
it is plain that he did not only know our doctrines, but
was in very great measure a follower and admirer of
them. There is not indeed extant any writing that is
owned for his but many there are who have written his
history, of whom Hermippus is the most celebrated,
who was a person very inquisitive into all sorts of
history. Now this Hermippus, in his first book
concerning Pythagoras, speaks thus: “That Pythagoras,
upon the death of one of his associates, whose name
was Calliphon, a Crotonlate by birth, affirmed that
this man’s soul conversed with him both night and day,
and enjoined him not to pass over a place where an ass
had fallen down; as also not to drink of such waters as
caused thirst again; and to abstain from all sorts of
reproaches.” After which he adds thus: “This he did and
said in imitation of the doctrines of the Jews and
Thracians, which he transferred into his own
philosophy.” For it is very truly affirmed of this
Pythagoras, that he took a great many of the laws of the
Jews into his own philosophy.90
The passage alluded by Origenes seems to refer to a different
work of the same author: “It is said that also Hermippus, in his
first book on legislators, related that Pythagoras brought his
own philosophy from the Jews to the Greeks.”91
Later biographers of Pythagoras also described some
connections between him and the Jews. Thus Porphyry,
quoting a certain Antonius Diogenes, says: “He sent de boy
[Pythagoras] to a lyre player, a gymnast and a painter. Later he
sent him to Anaximander at Miletus, to learn geometry and
astronomy. Then Pythagoras visited the Egyptians, the
Arabians, the Chaldeans and the Hebrews from whom he

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
acquired expertise in the interpretation of dreams, and
acquired de use of frankincense in the worship of divinities.”92
Iamblichus offers further information on this contact and
explains that Pythagoras spent some time in solitude on Mount
Carmel:
Enjoying such advantages, therefore, he sailed to
Sidon, both because it was his native country, and
because it was on his way to Egypt. In Phoenicia he
conversed with the prophets who where descendants of
Moschus93 the physiologist, and with many others, as
well as with the local hierophants. He was also initiated
into all the mysteries of Byblos and Tyre, and in the
sacred function performed in many parts of Syria…
After gaining all he could from the Phoenician
mysteries, he found that they had originated from the
sacred rites of Egypt… Therefore following the advice
of his teacher Thales, he left, as soon as possible,
through the agency of some Egyptian sailors, who very
opportunely happened to land on the Phoenician coast
under Mount Carmel where, in the temple of the peak,
Pythagoras for the most part had dwelt in solitude…
They [the sailors] began to reflect that there was
something supernatural in the youth’s modesty, and in
the manner in which he had unexpectedly appeared to
them on their landing, when, from the summit of
Mount Carmel, which they knew to be more sacred
than other mountains, and quite inaccessible to the
vulgar, he had leisurely descended without looking
back…94
Both Porphyry and Iamblichus detail Pythagoras’ visit to
Egypt. Laertius also alludes to this episode95. This was an old
tradition that can be traced as far as Isocrates in the fifth
century BCE96 and that has especial relevance for the
understanding of later views held by Christian and Muslim
historians. Eusebius, for instance, in his Praeparatio
evangelica considers that Pythagoras’ learning from the Jews
could have occurred during his sojourns in Egypt or in
Babylonia97: “Pherecydes also is recorded to have been a Syrian,
and Pythagoras they say was his disciple. He is not, however,
the only teacher with whom, as it is said, Pythagoras was
associated, but he spent some time also with the Persian Magi;
and became a disciple of the Egyptian prophets, at the time

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

when some of the Hebrews appear to have made their settlement
in Egypt, and some in Babylon.”98
Regarding Plato, Numenius of Apamea (second century CE)
is quoted as having made the following striking comments:
Also from the Pythagorean philosopher himself, I mean
Numenius, I will quote as follows from his first book
On the Good: ‘But when one has spoken upon this
point, and sealed it by the testimonies of Plato, it will
be necessary to go back and connect it with the
precepts of Pythagoras, and to appeal to the nations of
good repute, bringing forward their rites and
doctrines, and their institutions which are formed in
agreement with those of Plato, all that the Brahmans,
and Jews, and Magi, and Egyptians arranged.’99
Thus then speaks Numenius, explaining clearly both
Plato’s doctrines and the much earlier doctrines of
Moses. With reason therefore is that saying currently
attributed to him, in which it is recorded that he said,
‘For what else is Plato than Moses speaking Attic
Greek?’100
The peripatetic Clearchus of Soli (c. 300 BCE) is one of the
earliest authors known for having established a sort of link
between the Jewish religion and a particular Greek philosopher.
In a book discussing the phenomenon of dreams, he reproduces
a dialogue between Aristotle and a Jew which has been
preserved in Josephus’ Contra Apionem:
For Clearchus, who was the scholar of Aristotle, and
inferior to no one of the Peripatetics whomsoever, in
his first book concerning sleep, says that “Aristotle his
master related what follows of a Jew,” and sets down
Aristotle’s own discourse with him. The account is
this, as written down by him: “Now, for a great part of
what this Jew said, it would be too long to recite it;
but what includes in it both wonder and philosophy it
may not be amiss to discourse of. Now, that I may be
plain with thee, Hyperochides, I shall herein seem to
thee to relate wonders, and what will resemble dreams
themselves.
Hereupon
Hyperochides
answered
modestly, and said: For that very reason it is that all of
us are very desirous of hearing what thou art going to
say. Then replied Aristotle: For this cause it will be the
best way to imitate that rule of the Rhetoricians, which

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
requires us first to give an account of the man, and of
what nation he was, that so we may not contradict our
master’s directions. Then said Hyperochides: Go on, if
it so pleases thee. This man then, [answered Aristotle,]
was by birth a Jew, and came from Celesyria; these
Jews are derived from the Indian philosophers; they are
named by the Indians Calami, and by the Syrians
Judaei, and took their name from the country they
inhabit, which is called Judea; but for the name of their
city, it is a very awkward one, for they call it
Jerusalem. Now this man, when he was hospitably
treated by a great many, came down from the upper
country to the places near the sea, and became a
Grecian, not only in his language, but in his soul also;
insomuch that when we ourselves happened to be in
Asia about the same places whither he came, he
conversed with us, and with other philosophical
persons, and made a trial of our skill in philosophy;
and as he had lived with many learned men, he
communicated to us more information than he
received from us.” This is Aristotle’s account of the
matter, as given us by Clearchus; which Aristotle
discoursed also particularly of the great and wonderful
fortitude of this Jew in his diet, and continent way of
living, as those that please may learn more about him
from Clearchus’s book itself; for I avoid setting down
any more than is sufficient for my purpose.101
While it is attested that Aristotle spent a part of his life
living in Asia some authors102 consider this encounter with a
Jew as fictitious. This conclusion is reached on the grounds
that placing a hellenized Jew as a contemporary of Aristotle is
an anachronism. Paradoxically, the argument can be applied to
Clearchus himself.103
There is direct evidence of various ancient authors having
incorporated notions of Jewish religion into their works.
Thus, some scholars see traces of a passage from Genesis (I.28)
in the De universi Natura written around the second century
BCE by the Pythagorean Ocellus Lucanus104.
In his Res Divinae, the Latin Varro (116-27 BCE) assimilates
the god Jupiter with Yahweh and extols the way in which the
Jews worship their God. Augustine quotes from him:

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

He [Varro] also says that for more than one hundred
and seventy years the ancient Romans worshipped the
gods without and image. ‘If this usage had continued
to our own day’, he says, our worship of the gods
would be more devout’. And in support of his opinion
he adduces, among other things, the testimony of the
Jewish race. And he ends with the forthright statement
that those who first set up images of the gods for the
people diminished reverence in their cities as they
added to error, for he wisely judged that gods in the
shape of senseless images might easily inspire
contempt.105
Yet Varro — one of themselves — to a more learned man
they cannot point — thought the God of the Jews to be
the same as Jupiter, thinking that it makes no
difference by which name he is called, so long as the
same thing is understood. I believe that he did it being
terrified by his sublimity. Since the Romans habitually
worship nothing superior to Jupiter, a fact attested
well and openly by their Capitol, and they consider him
the king of all the gods, and as he perceived that the
Jews worship the highest God, he could not but
identify him with Jupiter.106
The anonymous pseudo-Longinus author of the De
Sublimitate — written around the first century CE — also
quotes from Genesis and praises Moses: “A similar effect was
achieved by the lawgiver of the Jews — no mean genius, for he
both understood and gave expression to the power of the
divinity as it deserved — when he wrote at the very beginning of
his laws, I quote his words: ‘God said’ -what? ‘Let there be light.
And there was. Let there be earth. And there was’”.107
And Porphyry, who also quoted from the book of Genesis108,
is said by Lydus to have assimilated Yahweh with the Platonic
Demiurge: “But Porphyry in the Commentary on the Oracles
says that the god worshipped by the Jews is the second god, the
creator of all things whom the Chaldaean in his discourse on
the gods counts to be the second from the first god, i.e. the
Good.”109
Of course, modern scholarship has offered different theories
about a possible Hebraic influence on Greek philosophy but a
general consensus as to how and when it happened is still
lacking.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
In recent times, for instance, West has detected some
common features between the biblical giant Og and the Greek
Ogygos. The biblical Leviathan and Rahab also seem to have a
counterpart in Pherecydes’ Ophioneus but the possibility exists
that both the biblical and the Greek mythical beings have a
common origin in the ancient Middle East.110
For Stern, the fact that some Pythagoreans like Ocellus were
aware of some Jewish doctrines may be proof of a Hebraic
influence on neo-Pythagorean circles.111 And Hengel considers
that the personification of “Wisdom” as it appears in Proverbs
(8.22-31) and Job (28) can not be the result of an influence from
Greek culture. Rather, the personification of Sophia in Greek
thought, which is later, seems of Oriental influence.112
Similarly, Hengel points to the possibility that many of the
themes and concepts present in the Estoic school had the same
origins. One wonders if Hengel means Hebraic when he says
Oriental.113
As has been shown earlier, the Platonic myth of Er has been
considered by some as an element with strong Persian roots.
But for others, however, the myth may be Semitic in origin. The
name Er, for instance, is a Semitic name (Lc. 3,28). Gómez de
Liaño points out the striking similarities in the structure and
imagery used by Ezekiel in his vision of the Chariot (1.4-28) and
Plato’s symbols in Er’s myth (Rep. X.617). Common features
appear also between Plato’s description of the ideal city and
Ezekiel’s vision of the Holy City. Gómez admits, however, that
despite the common features of both texts, the possibility
exists that its authors followed a common Babylonian text or
scheme not yet identified.114
The Muslim sources
Juan Cole lists a number of Muslim authors that reproduce
the tradition alluded to by Bahá’u’lláh in the Tablet of
Wisdom. The names and works of some of them are:
Sa’id al-Andalusí (1029-1070 CE): Kitáb Tabaqát al-Umam
Abu’l-Fat˙-i-Sháhristání (1076–1153 CE): Kitáb al-Milal
wa al-Nihal
Jamálu’d-Dín al-Qiftí (1172-1248): Táríkh al-Hukamát

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

Muwaffaqu’d-Dín ibn Abí Usaybiah (1194-1270): Uyun Al-
Anba Fi-Tabakat Al-Attibba
Imádu’d-Dín Abu’l-Fidá (1273–1331 CE): Al-Mukhtasar fi
Akhbar Al-Bashar
Walbridge115 and Terry116 mention an earlier writer, the
Persian Abú’l Hasan al-’Ámirí (d. 992), that also used the
tradition in his Al-Amad ‘Alá al-Abab117. Being the earliest
known Muslim author to treat the issue, it will be worth
reproducing his words as translated by Rowson:
The first one to whom wisdom was attributed was
Luqmán, the Sage, as God says: “And verily we gave
Luqmán wisdom” (Q 31:12). He lived at the time of the
prophet David; they where both residents of the land of
Syria.
It is said that Empedocles the Greek used to keep
company with Luqmán and learn from his wisdom. But
when he returned to the land of Greece, he spoke on his
own authority about the nature of the world, saying
things which, if understood literally, offend against
(the belief) of the Hereafter. The Greeks attributed
wisdom to him because of his former association with
Luqmán; indeed, he was the first Greek to be called a
Sage. A group of the Bátinites claim to be followers of
his wisdom and speak of him with high esteem. They
claim that he wrote in symbols whose hidden meanings
are rarely comprehended.
Another Greek who was described as wise was
Pythagoras. In Egypt he kept company with the
companions of Solomon son of David, after they
moved there from the land of Syria. Having (already)
learned geometry from the Egyptians, he then learned
the physical and divine/metaphysical sciences from the
companions of Solomon. These three sciences — that is,
geometry, physics, and the science of religion — he
transferred to the land of Greece… He claimed that he
had acquired these sciences from the niche of prophecy.
After him, another Greek who was described as wise
was
Socrates.
He
derived
(his)
wisdom
from
Pythagoras, but limited himself to the divine sciences…
Then, after him, another one described as wise was
Plato. He was of noble lineage and pre-eminent among

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
them. He agreed with Socrates in deriving (his) wisdom,
and with Pythagoras…
Another of the Greeks after Plato who was described as
wise was Aristotle… [He] studied with Plato for nearly
twenty years in order to derive wisdom (from him)…118
Accordingly, Rowson sees the origin of the reference to
Empedocles — actually the Muslimized pseudo-Empedocles —
to traditions circulating among the batínís119.
Similarly, he traces the reference to Pythagoras back to
Eusebius (see quotation in the precedent section)120, a
reasoning which is quite convincing. But there is also a passage
from Porphyry, an author widely used and quoted by Muslim
historians, that also fits well as the source for ‘Al-Amirí’s
passage on Pythagoras: “As for his knowledge, it is said that he
learned the mathematical sciences from the Egyptians,
Chaldeans, and Phoenicians; for of old the Egyptians excelled
in geometry… and the Chaldeans in astronomical theorems,
divine rites, and worship of the Gods.”121 Both ‘Al-Amirí’s and
Porphyry’s texts coincide in mentioning the Egyptians as
Pythagoras’ teachers in geometry while Porphyry mentions the
Chaldeans as the instructors of the Samian in divine matters.
Since sometimes the identification of the Chaldeans with the
Jews was, to a certain extent, common in medieval times it
may be assumed that some readers of Porphyry, including ‘Al-
Amirí or his source, may have understood this reference to the
Chaldeans as a reference to the Jews. What is more probable is
that a combination of Christian (be it Eusebius, Augustine or
both) and Pagan texts took place.
Furthermore, it is also worth noting that ‘Al-Amirí’s text
does not portray Empedocles and Pythagoras as meeting with
David and Solomon but rather as meeting their followers. In
the case of Pythagoras, this is consistent with pre-Islamic
texts.
The information as it appears in ‘Al-Amirí was afterwards
used by other historians such as Al-Andalusí and Al-Sijistání (c.
932- c. 1000, Siwán al-Hikma). From Sijistání it passed to
Sháhristání and from him to other writers like Abu’l-Fidá. From
Al-Andalusí the text passed to al-Qiftí and ibn Abí Usaybiah.122
As for Al-Andalusí, it interesting to note, that among the many
books he cites in his work, he does not make any mention of
‘Al-Amirí’s. It should not be discarded, therefore, that both

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat

authors used a common source or that there was an
intermediary between both.
The tradition quoted by Bahá’u’lláh, while widely used in
Muslim scholarship seems therefore, in the absence of further
evidence pointing to a different direction, to be not a
repetition but an evolution of previous traditions. At its core,
it derives in last term from the many Pagan sources referring,
on the one hand, to the stay of Pythagoras in Egypt and, on the
other, to his contact with the Jews. At a second level we find
both traditions linked in a single one by some Christian
authors like Eusebius or Augustine who locate Pythagoras’
contacts with the Jews in Egypt. At a third level, we have ‘Al-
Amirí or one of his sources rescuing this Christian tradition
and adding to it comments about Empedocles — with no
precedent in ancient writers — and data extracted from Pagan
historians like Porphyry. At a fourth level, we find historians
like Sháhristání and Abu’l-Fidá — authors probably quoted by
Bahá’u’lláh — using ‘Al-Amirí’s version and adding to it little
variations like the one describing Pythagoras as living in the
days of Solomon.
Conclusion
Ancient records and modern scholarship offer us an
enormous
amount
of
information
about
a
possible
transmission of ideas from Eastern religions into Greek
thought. This data help us to better understand the
implications of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “the essence and
the fundamentals of philosophy have emanated from the
Prophets”. The arkhé of some of the pre-Socratics or the
dualism of Plato with its notion of a supreme Good, may stand
as just two examples of such phenomenon.
To prove or to discard a chronological synchrony between
Empedocles and King David or between Pythagoras and
Solomon, becomes, therefore, a very secondary matter, just as
for the question of whether the tradition quoted by Bahá’u’lláh
needs to be interpreted literally or not. Of course, it could be
interpreted literally and hopefully future research will uncover
new documents backing this approach. But in any case, what is
important from the passage under study are not the examples
cited by Bahá’u’lláh from some historians but the statement
that the Manifestation Himself is presenting and that underlies
the whole passage.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
When an individual approaches the history of ancient
philosophy from the standpoint marked by Bahá’u’lláh then he
or she is confronted with a whole new picture, one that
questions many of the prevalent paradigms in present-day
Western scholarship. It also transcends the traditions present
in Muslim historiography, for it forces the researcher to take
into account besides Jewish religion, other ancient religions
such as Zoroastrianism or even Hinduism or Buddhism123, and
to consider the cases, not only of the most popular figures of
Greek philosophy, but also of their predecessors and
successors.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Contestación a unas preguntas. Terrassa: Editorial Bahá’í de
España, 1994.
Alon, Ilai. Socrates in Medieval Arabic Literature. Leiden-Jerusalem: E. J.
Brill, 1991.
Al-Andalusí, Said. Historia de la filosofía y de las ciencias o Libro de las
categorías de las naciones — Kitáb Tabaqat al-umam. Madrid: Trotta,
2000.
Astour, Michael C. Hellenosemitica. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1965.
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablas de Bahá’u’lláh. Terrassa: Editorial Bahá’í de España,
2002.
———. Pasajes de los escritos de Bahá’u’lláh. Terrassa: Editorial Bahá’í de
España, 2006.
Baldwin, Edward C., “Ezekiel’s Holy State and Plato’s Republic”, The
Biblical World, Vol. 41, No. 6. (Jun., 1913), pp. 365-373.
Barker, Ernest. “Some Foreign Influences in Greek Thought”. Greece &
Rome, Vol. 5, No. 13. (Oct., 1935), pp. 2-11.
Brumbaugh, Robert S. “Colors of the Hemispheres in Plato’s Myth of Er
(Republic 616 E)”, Classical Philology, Vol. 46, No. 3. (Jul., 1951), pp.
173-176.
Bidez, J. Eos ou Platon et l’Orient. Brussels : Hayez 1945. Repr. New
York : AMS press, 1979.
Bidez, J.-Cumont F., Les Mages Hellénisés. Zoroastre, Ostanés et Hystape
d’après la tradition grecque (Vols. I and II). Paris: 1938. Repr. New
York : Arno Press, 1975.
Centre de recherches d’histoire des religions (ed.). E!
le!
ments orientaux
dans la religion grecque ancienne. Paris : Presses Universitaires de
France, 1960.

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat


Cole, Juan. “Problems of Chronology in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom”.
World Order, Vol. 13, No. 3 (1979), pp. 24-39.
Conger, George P. “Did India Influence Early Greek Philosophies?”.
Philosophy East and West, Vol. 2, No. 2. (Jul., 1952), pp. 102-128.
Cruz Hernández, Miguel. Historia del pensamiento en el mundo islámico.
Madrid: Alianza Editorial, 1996-1999 (3 vols.)
Dodds, E. R. Los Griegos y lo irracional. Madrid: Alianza Editorial, 2006.
———. “New Light on the Chaldaean Oracles”. The Harvard Theological
Review, Vol. 54, No. 4. (Oct., 1961), pp. 263-273.
———. “Plato and the Irrational”. The Journal of Hellenic Studies, Vol. 65
(1945), pp. 16-25.
Droge, Arthur J. “Justin Martyr and the Restoration of Philosophy”.
Church History, Vol. 56, No. 3. (Sep. 1987), pp. 303-319.
Duchesne-Guillemin, J. Heraclitus and Iran, Journal of Religions, Vol. 3,
No. 1 (summer 1963), pp. 34-49.
———. The Western Response to Zoroaster. Oxford: Clarendon Press,
1958. Repr. Westport: Greenwood Press, 1973.
Edwards, M. J. “Atticizing Moses? Numenius, the Fathers and the Jews”,
Vigiliae Christianae, Vol. 44, No. 1 (Mar., 1990), pp. 64-75.
Eliade, Mircea. Historia de las creencias y de las ideas religiosas. Vol. 2:
De Gautama Buda al triunfo del cristianismo. Barcelona: Paidós
Ibérica, 1999.
Evans, Arthur J. “Mycenaean Tree and Pillar Cult and Its Mediterranean
Relations”. The Journal of Hellenic Studies, Vol. 21 (1901), pp. 99-204.
Feldman, Louis H. Jew and Gentile in the Ancient World. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1993.
Feldman, Louis H. “Origen’s Contra Celsum and Josephus’ Contra
Apionem: The Issue of Jewish Origins”. Vigiliae Christianae, Vol. 44,
No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 105-135.
Ferrater Mora, José. Diccionario de Filosofía. 5 vols. Barcelona: RBA
2005.
Gómez de Liaño, Ignacio. Filósofos griegos, videntes judíos. Madrid:
Siruela, 2001.
Grant, Robert M. “Early Alexandrian Christianity”. Church History, Vol.
40, No. 2 (Jun., 1971), pp. 133-144.
———. “Dietary Laws among Pythagoreans, Jews, and Christians”. The
Harvard Theological Review, Vol. 73, No. ½ (Jan.-Apr., 1980), pp. 299-
310.
Guthrie, Kenneth Silvan. The Pythagorean sourcebook and library.
Michigan: Phanes Press, 1987.
Guthrie, William K. C. Historia de la filosofía griega. Vol. 1: Los primeros
presocráticos y los pitagóricos. Madrid: Gredos, 1999.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

———. Historia de la filosofía griega. Vol. 2: La tradición presocrática
desde Parméides a Demócrito. Madrid: Gredos, 1994.
———. Historia de la filosofía griega. Vol. 4: Platón, el hombre y sus
diálogos, primera época. Madrid: Gredos, 1998.
———. Historia de la filosofía griega. Vol. 5: Platón, segunda época y la
academia. Madrid: Gredos, 1998.
Festugière, A. J. “Plato et l’Orient”. Revue de philologie, de littérature et
d’histoire anciennes, 3 Sér. XXI, (1947) pp 5-45.
Hadas, Moses. “Plato in Hellenistic Fusion”. Journal of the History of
Ideas, Vol. 19, No. 1 (Jan., 1958), pp. 3-13.
Hengel, Martin. Judaism and Hellenism. London: SCM Press, 1981.
Jaeger, Werner. Aristotle. Fundamentals of the History of His
Development. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1962 (2nd ed.).
———. “Greeks and Jews: The First Greek Records of Jewish Religion and
Civilization”. The Journal of Religion, Vol. 18, No. 2 (Apr., 1938), pp.
127-143.
———. La teología de los primeros filósofos griegos. México D.F.: Fondo
de Cultura Económica, 2003.
de Jong, Albert. Traditions of the Magi. Zoroastrianism in Greek and
Latin Literature. Leiden: Brill, 1997.
Josefo, Flavio. Autobiografía. Contra Apión. Madrid: Gredos, 2001.
Kingsley, Peter. “From Pythagoras to the Turba philosophorum: Egypt and
Pythagorean Tradition”. Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld
Institutes, Vol. 57 (1994), pp. 1-13.
———. “The Greek Origin of the Sixth-Century Dating of Zoroaster”.
Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of
London, Vol. 53, No. 2 (1990), pp. 245-265.
Klebel, Wolfang. “Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom:
Towards a Progressive Bahá’í Theology”. Lights of Irfán, Vol. 7 (2006),
pp. 119-162.
Koster, W.J.W. Le Mythe de Platon, de Zarathoustra et des Chaldéens.
Étude critique sur les relations intellectuelles entre Platon et l’Orient.
Leiden : E. J. Brill, 1951.
Lewy, Hans. “Aristotle and the Jewish Sage According to Clearchus of
Soli”. The Harvard Theological Review, Vol. 31, No. 3 (Jul., 1938), pp.
205-235.
Marlow, A. N. “Hinduism and Buddhism in Greek Philosophy”. Philosophy
East and West, Vol. 4, No. 1 (Apr., 1954), pp. 35-45.
Meyerhof,
Max.
“‘Ali
al-Bayhaqi’s
Tatimmat
Siwan
al-Hikma:
A
Biographical Work on Learned Men of the Islam”. Osiris, Vol. 8 (1948),
pp. 122-217.
Nyberg, H. S. Questions de cosmogonie et cosmologie mazdéennes.
Journal Asiatique, T. 219 (Jul-sept. 1931), pp. 1-134.

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat


Osley, A. S. “Greek Biography before Plutarch”. Greece & Rome, Vol. 15,
No. 43 (Jan., 1946), pp. 7-20.
Philip, J. A. “Aristotle’s Monograph on the Pythagoreans”. Transactions
and Proceedings of the American Philological Association, Vol. 94
(1963), pp. 185-198.
———.
“The
Biographical
Tradition-Pythagoras”.
Transactions
and
Proceedings of the American Philological Association, Vol. 90. (1959),
pp. 185-194.
Platón. Diálogos. Madrid: Gredos, 1982 (8 vols.)
Polman, G. H. “Chronological Biography and Akme in Plutarch”. Classical
Philology, Vol. 69, No. 3. (Jul., 1974), pp. 169-177.
Rahula, Basnagoda. The untold story about the Greek rational thought:
Buddhist and other Indian rationalistic influences on sophist rhetotic.
Ph.D. diss., Texas Tech University, 2000.
Reinach, Théodore. Textes d’auteurs Grecs et Romains relatifs au
Judaïsme. Paris: E. Leroux, 1895. Repr. Hildesheim: Georg Olms, 1963.
Rowson, Everett K., Al-’Amiri on the Afterlife. A Translation with
Commentary of His al-Amad ‘ala al-Abad. Ph.D. diss., Yale University,
1982.
Terry, Peter. Some Chronological issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of
Bahá’u’lláh. Lights of Irfán, Vol. 1 (2000), pp. 121-1422
Sastri, K. A. Nilakanta. “Ancient Indian Contacts With Western Lands”.
Diógenes 1959.
Spoerri, W. “Encore Platon et l’Orient”. Revue de philologie, de
littérature et d’histoire anciennes, 3 Sér. XXXI, 1957, pp. 209-233.
Stapleton, H. E. “Ancient and Modern Aspects of Pythagoreanism”.
Osiris, Vol. 13 (1958), pp. 12-53.
Stern, Menahem. Greek and Latin Authors on the Jews and Judaism (Vols.
1, 2 and 3). Jerusalem: The Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities,
1976 (2nd edition).
Walbridge, John, “Explaining Away the Greek Gods in Islam”. Journal of
the History of Ideas, Vol. 59, No. 3 (Jul., 1998), pp. 389-403.
West, M. L. Early Greek Philosophy and the Orient. Oxford: Clarendon
Press, 1971.
White, K. D. “The Sacred Grove: A Comparative Study of Some Parallel
Aspects of Religious Ritual in Ancient Crete and the Near East”.
Greece & Rome, 2nd Ser., Vol. 1, No. 3 (Oct., 1954), pp. 112-127.
NOTES
Note: I want to express my gratitude to Leilí Egea and to Somhairle
Watson for proofreading the text.
1 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

2 Cole, Juan. “Problems of Chronology in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Wisdom”, 1979.
3 Terry, Peter. “Some Chronological issues in the Law  -i-Óikmat of
Bahá’u’lláh”, 2000.
4 Bidez, J.- Cumont F., Les Mages Hellénisés. Zoroastre, Ostanés et
Hystape d’après la tradition grecque, 1938.
5 de Jong, Albert. Traditions of the Magi. Zoroastrianism in Greek and
Latin Literature, 1997.
6 Clement of Alexandria, Stromata, III.2.11 (trans. Schaff). This and other
texts of the church fathers available at http://www.ccel.org/.
7 Diógenes Laertius, Lives of eminent philosophers, 1.2 (trans. Yonge). As
will be shown this dating implies a knowledge of the Zoroastrian
conception of cycles.
8 Bidez-Cumont, op. cit. I, 6.
9 K. S. Guthrie, The Pythagorean sourcebook and library, 1987, pp. 38-39.
10 “Zaratas” is a Semitic form for “Zoroaster”. While Xanthus used the
Greek form “Zoroastres” other authors used “Zaratas” a fact that
implies an import of the term from Babylonia. Cf. Bidez-Cumont op.
cit. I, 37-38 for an etymology of the word “Zaratas” including an
identification by Aghatias of both names with the same person. Some
classical authors, however, seem to regard Zaratas as a Magi living in
Babylonia and not as the prophet Zoroaster Himself.
11 Hippolytus, The Refutation of all Heresies (trans. Schaff). Book 6,
chapters 18-19.
12 Cf. Kingsley, “The Greek Origin of the Sixth-Century Dating of
Zoroaster”, 1990.
13 Diogenes Laertius, Lives and opinions of eminent philosophers. VIII, 3
(trans. Yonge, 1853)
14 K. S. Guthrie, op. cit. 125 (Porphyry, Life of Pythagoras, 12)
15 Ibíd. 124 (Porphyry, Life of Pythagoras, 6)
16 Ibíd. 131 (Porphyry, Life of Pythagoras, 12)
17 Ibíd. 61 (Iamblichus, Life of Pythagoras, 4)
18 Ibíd. 95 (Iamblichus, Life of Pythagoras, 21).
19 For a discussion on the biographies of Pythagoras see J.A. Phillip, “The
Biographical Tradition-Pythagoras”, 1959.
20 De finibus bonorum et malorum V, 29.
21 Factorum et dictorum memorabilium liber, VIII, 7.2
22 Life of Apollonius, I.2.
23 The Apologia and Florida of Apuleius of Madaura (transl. H. E. Butler,
1909), p. 184.
24 Stromata op. cit I.15
25 Various History, V. 20 (trans. Thomas Stanley,1665)

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat


26 Stromata op. cit. I. 15
27 Laertius, op. cit. IX.1-2.
28 Vita Apollonii, I.2.1 (trans. F.C. Conybeare 1912)
29 Laertius, op. cit. II.24
30 Bidez, Eos ou Platon et L’Orient, 1945, p. 2.
31 Laertius op. cit. III, 8.
32 Cf. Edwards, “Atticizing Moses? Numenius, the Fathers and the Jews”,
1990.
33 Stromata op. cit. V. 14.
34 Cf. Edwards, op. cit.
35 Stromata, op. cit. I. 15.
36 Divine Institutes, IV. 2 (trans. Fletcher).
37 West, M. L. Early Greek Philosophy and the Orient. 1971.
38 Ibíd. pp. 34-35.
39 Cf. Ibíd. pp. 89-91
40 Fr. A18. (trans. Burnet, 1908).
41 Passages referred to in West op. cit.
42 E. W. West in Sacred Books of the East, Vol. 5. All Zoroastrian
quotations from http://www.avesta.org/.
43 E. W. West in SBE, Vol. 47.
44 L.H. Mills in SBE, Vol. 31.
45 Ibíd.
46 Yasht, 13.57 (trans. James Darmeteter SBE, Vol. 23).
47 Fr. A.9: “Anaximander of Miletos, son of Praxiades, a fellow-citizen and
associate of Thales, said that the material cause and first element of
things was the Infinite, he being the first to introduce this name for the
material cause. He says it is neither water nor any other of the so-
called elements, but a substance different from them, which is infinite,
from which arise all the heavens and the worlds within them. And into
that from which things take their rise they pass away once more, ‘as is
ordained; for they make reparation and satisfaction to one another for
their injustice according to the appointed time’ as he says in these
somewhat poetical terms.”
48 West mentions Burkert (Iranisches bei Anaximandros’, Rheinisches
Museum, 1963) as a proponent of this theory, op. cit.
49 Ibíd. p. 93.
50 Ibíd. p. 97.
51 All Heraclitan fragments following Burnet’s translation (1919)
52 Cf. Duchesne-Guillemin, “Heraclitus and Iran”, 1963.
53 Cf. West, op. cit. 177-200.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

54 Jaeger, Werner. Aristotle. Fundamentals of the History of His
Development, 1962, p. 126.
55 Ibíd. p. 130.
56 Laertius op. cit. I, 6.
57 Pliny, Natural History (30.3) in Ibíd. p. 131. cf. Jaeger op. cit. 135 for
some arguments on the provenance of this fragment from On
philosophy.
58 “This difficulty arises not from ascribing goodness to the first principle
as an attribute, but from treating unity as a principle, and a principle
in the sense of an element, and then deriving number from unity …
those of them who compromise by not describing everything in
mythological language — e.g. Pherecydes and certain others — make the
primary generator the Supreme Good; and so do the Magi, and some of
the later philosophers such as Empedocles and Anaxagoras: the one
making Love an element, and the other making Mind a first principle.
And of those who hold that unchangeable substances exist, some
identify absolute unity with absolute goodness; but they considered
that the essence of goodness was primarily unity”. Aristotle,
Metaphysics, 1091b (trans. Hugh Tredennick)
59 Nyberg, “Questions de cosmogonie et cosmologie mazdéennes”, 1931.
60 J. Bidez, Eos ou Platon et l’Orient, 1945, p. 36.
61 Bidez-Cumont, op. cit.
62 Jaeger, op. cit. 134-135.
63 Cf. Ibíd. 24-37.
64 Jaeger, op. cit. 105 and 132.
65 Cf. Bidez-Cumont op. cit. I, 34-36 and 57-59 for further considerations
on this.
66 The Myth of Er is found at the end tenth book of Plato’s Republic
starting in 614b.
67 Cf. Bidez, op. cit. 43-51 for an analysis of the myth under this light.
68 Ibíd. 62-63.
69 Ibíd. 72-73. Bidez here is following the thesis put forth by R.
Reitzenstein in ‘Plato und Zarathustra’, Bibliothek Warburg, 1927.
70 (trans. W.R.M. Lamb, 1925)
71 (trans. R.G. Bury, 1968)
72 Ibíd.
73Cf. Bidez-Cumont op. cit. I, 34-36 and 57-59 for further considerations
on this. Ibíd. 97-98.
74 Timaeus, 73
75 Chapter 28.
76 Duchesne-Guillemin, The Western Response to Zoroaster, 1973 pp. 73-

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat


77 Bidez op. cit. 126-133.
78 See bibliography.
79 For a catalogue and description of such texts see íbid. I chapters IV to
VII.
80 Cf. ˆbid. I 91ss.
81 ˆbid. I 86.
82 Martin Hengel, Judaism and Hellenism, 1981, 192-193
83 See for instance Michael Astour’s Hellenosemitica and Walter Burket’s
The Orientalizing Revolution.
84 Dr. Iraj Ayman has pointed me to a work by the late Manuchehr
Salmanpour published in Safini-yi Irfán IV in which the author
presents sources for the idea of a Jewish transmission into Greek
philosophy. Unfortunately I have been unable to consult this article to
the risk of repeating some of its thesis.
85 Hengel op. cit. 255.
86 Reinach and Stern consider this fragment as the first Greek text “to deal
expressly with the Jews”. Jaeger, however holds a different opinion.
87 Quoted in Stern, Greek and Latin authors on the Jews and Judaism I,
Jerusalem, 1976, p. 10.
88 Origen, Against Celsus, I.XV
89 Stern op. cit. I 46. This fragment has survived in Clemens’ Stromata I
15.72 and was afterwards reproduced by Eusebius in Praeparatio
Evangelica IX.6
90 Josephus, Contra Apionem I.161 (trans. William Whiston 1895).
91 Stern op. cit. I 96. Fragment in Origenes’ Contra Celsum I 15.
92 K. S. Guthrie, op. cit. 125. (Porphyry, Life of Pythagoras, 11).
93 Identified by Guthrie as Moses. See Danton Sailor’s Moses and atomism
for an opposite view.
94 Ibíd. 61 (Iamblichus, Life of Pythagoras, 60).
95 Cf. Diogenes op. cit. VIII.3
96 “If one were not determined to make haste, one might cite many
admirable instances of the piety of the Egyptians, that piety which I am
neither the first nor the only one to have observed; on the contrary,
many contemporaries and predecessors have remarked it, of whom
Pythagoras of Samos is one. On a visit to Egypt he became a student of
the religion of the people, and was first to bring to the Greeks all
philosophy, and more conspicuously than others he seriously interested
himself in sacrifices and in ceremonial purity, since he believed that
even if he should gain thereby no greater reward from the gods, among
men, at any rate, his reputation would be greatly enhanced.” Isocrates
11.28 (trans. by George Norlin 1980).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

97 Besides the fragments from pagan writers there are also abundant
arguments set forth in Jewish and Christian spheres on the theme of a
Mosaic transmission into Greek philosophy, Aristobulus together with
Artapanus, Eupolemus, Philo of Alexandria or the above mentioned
Flavius Josephus being the Jewish writers known for having defended
this idea. In confronting the attacks made from the pagan ranks Jewish
and also Christian writers endeavoured to prove the antiquity of the
Mosaic religion and to establish bridges between philosophy and
revealed religion with the twofold purpose of proving a dependence of
philosophy on revealed religion and avoiding any notion in the mass of
believers of incompatibility between reason and faith, between
religion and philosophy. For some authors theology and philosophy
were not only compatible but rather the same thing.
Clement says of Aristobulus: “Aristobulus, in his first book addressed to
Philometor, writes in these words: Plato too has followed our
legislation, and has evidently studied carefully the several precepts
contained in it. And others before Demetrius, and prior to the
supremacy of Alexander and of the Persians, have translated both the
narrative of the Exodus of our fellow countrymen the Hebrews from
Egypt, and the fame of all that happened to them, and their conquest
of the land, and the exposition of the whole Law. So it is perfectly
clear that the philosopher before-mentioned has borrowed much, for he
is very learned; as also was Pythagoras, who transferred many of our
precepts into his own system of doctrines” (Stromata I.22). Eusebius
quotes Eupolemus as saying that Moses invented the alphabet that was
afterwards taught to the Phoenicians who in turn transmitted it to the
Greeks (Praep. IX.26).
Christian authors, especially Clement of Alexandria, Eusebius, Origen and
Pseudo-Justin followed also this trend and dedicated whole chapters
showing supposed examples of plagiarism made by Greek philosophers
from the revealed Scriptures. In some cases, like in Pseudo-Justin, this
endeavour reached the point of exaggeration in attempting to detect
references to the cross or the trinity in the works of Plato.
Paradoxically, some authors, as was also the case with Pseudo-Justin,
combined these ideas with harsh antisemitism.
98 Praeperatio X. IV (trans. E.H. Gifford 1903). Interestingly, Alexander
Polyhistor may have identified the prophet Ezekiel with Zoroaster. This
idea may have been the result of a mixture of two traditions, one
representing Pythagoras as a pupil of Zoroaster and the other having
Pythagoras meeting the Jews in Babylonia. The identification of
Zoroaster with Ezekiel is denied by Clement of Alexandria (Stromata,
I.15): “Zoroaster the Magus, Pythagoras showed to be a Persian. Of the
secret books of this man, those who follow the heresy of Prodicus
boast to be in possession. Alexander, in his book On the Pythagorean
Symbols, relates that Pythagoras was a pupil of Nazaratus the Assyrian
(some think that he is Ezekiel; but he is not, as will afterwards be

Further Comments on a Passage of the Law˙-i-Óikmat


shown)…”. See Bidez-Cumont op. cit. 42 and Hegel op. cit. 154 for
further information.
99 Praeparatio IX. VII
100 ˆbid. XI.X, Eusebius is quoting Clement’s Stromata I.22 .
101 Josephus, Contra Apionem I.161 (trans. William Whiston 1895).
102 Cf. Reinach Textes d’auteurs Grecs et Romains relatifs au Judaïsme,
1895, p. 12; Stern op. cit. I 47; H. Lewy, “Aristotle and the Jewish Sage
According to Clearchus of Soli”, 1938.
103 In this regard it would be interesting to note that archaeological
evidence shows some presence of Jews in Athens at least as late as the
third century BCE. Cf. Lewis, “The First Greek Jew”, 1957.
104 Stern, op. cit. I 131
105 Ibíd. I 209
106 Ibíd. I 210
107 Ibíd. I 364
108 Ibíd. II 444
109 Ibíd. II 443
110 Cf. West op. cit. 40-46.
111 Stern, op. cit. I 131
112 Hengel, op. cit. 148-49
113 ˆbid. 153-154.
114 See Gómez de Liaño, Filósofos griegos, videntes judíos, 2001, pp. 215-
252.
115 Walbridge, “Explaining Away the Greek Gods in Islam”, 1998.
116 Terry, op. cit.
117 This work has been translated and published by Everett K. Rowson. The
present author, however, has only had access to the Phd dissertation of
Rowson. I first became aware of the existence of this translation
thanks to a posting to tarikh discussion e-list by William McCants
(2005-09-10).
118 Rowson, Al-’Amiri on the Afterlife. A Translation with Commentary of
His al-Amad ‘ala al-Abad (Ph.D. diss.), 1982, III.1-8.
119 Ibíd. p. 227.
120 Ibíd. p. 232.
121 K. S. Guthrie, op. cit. 124. (Porphyry, Life of Pythagoras, 6)
122 Ibíd. 223. Rowson considers ‘Al-Amirí as the direct source for Andalusí.
123 See Conger, Rahula and Sastri in the bibliography, for some recent
works studying the possibility of an Indian influence in Greek thought.

The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions
“Progressive Revelation”: The Application of
Principles and Insights from the History of Science1
Jena Khadem Khodadad
The intent of this paper is to explore and discuss the Bahá’í
“paradigm” on unity of religions, that is the fundamental
Bahá’í principle of Progressive Revelation, in the context of the
thesis proposed by Thomas Kuhn, in his classical work, The
Structure of Scientific Revolution.2,3,4 This paper is organized
in two parts:
I. Discussion of the process of advancement of scientific
knowledge through stages which according to Kuhn
bring about a change in paradigm; this will employ an
example from the history of science (the Copernican
Revolution) as analyzed by Kuhn.
II. Presentation of certain concepts inherent in the Bahá’í
paradigm on unity of religions through the use of
diagrams; this will be discussed in the context of the
Copernican Revolution and the change in paradigm
from a geocentric to heliocentric universe.
Introduction
Thomas Kuhn, an eminent philosopher of science, was the
first to introduce the term “paradigm”. Paradigm comes from
the Greek word, “paradigmia” which means pattern. Paradigm
signifies our worldview; how we believe knowledge or systems
work. The Oxford English Dictionary defines paradigm as “a
pattern or model, an exemplar”. The word “paradigm” as used
in this paper in respect to the Bahá’í principle of Progressive
Revelation, denotes “the religious worldview” on unity of
religions. The term “paradigm” has over time acquired various
connotations and in some instances its application has become
trivialized. However, the concept of paradigm as used by Kuhn
is replete with significant insights. My intent is to apply the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
concept of “paradigm” in this paper with the depth imparted
to it by Thomas Kuhn.
Kuhn in The Structure of Scientific Revolution discusses the
role of paradigms in advancement of scientific research and
knowledge. This book is considered as one of the most
significant books on the philosophy of science since it was
first published in 1962, and subsequently in 1964 and 1970. The
Structure of Scientific Revolution has been widely read (it has
sold over a million copies) and has influenced scholars from
numerous disciplines. It has generated much discussion and
debate, and won praise as well elicited criticism. Some have
hailed it as “monumental” while others have critiqued and
rejected its central thesis. This book has thus stimulated
extensive discourse leading to numerous other publications.
These have, in turn, contributed to increased understanding in
respective fields. This is indeed the hallmark of any significant
publication. The terms “seminal” and “monumental” rightly
apply to Kuhn’s work regardless of how one may view any of its
possible shortcomings. Kuhn’s contributions, in particular in
respect to the thesis of this paper, warrant in-depth
consideration and reflection. Such reflections are bound to
provide learning and insights heightening one’s understanding
and appreciation of the Bahá’í paradigm of unity of religions.
Kuhn’s central thesis is that advances in scientific
knowledge are essentially revolutionary. He believes that
scientific research consists of long periods of “normal science”
interrupted by a radical shift in paradigm whereby one
paradigm is supplanted by a mutually exclusive one. This is
tantamount to a revolution as it involves the overthrow of an
old paradigm, an old regime, and its replacement with the new.
The thesis of Kuhn has stimulated dialogues and in-depth
discussions on whether advancements in scientific knowledge
follows the revolutionary path or whether it is a process which
is cumulative and hence evolutionary. A revolutionary process
entails a “paradigm shift” whereby the paradigm undergoes a
radical change. An evolutionary process entails “paradigm
expansion” whereby the paradigm undergoes expansion through
gradual
accretion
of
knowledge.
Kuhn’s
enthusiastic
supporters are numerous; among them is Howard Margolis5
who draws a relationship between a Kuhnian paradigm shift
and a shift in well entrenched “habits of the mind”.
Many of those who have critiqued Kuhn’s view hold that
advancement in scientific knowledge is cumulative and hence

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

evolutionary. Stephen Toulmin6 argues against Kuhn’s thesis
that advancement in science is revolutionary and holds that the
process is in fact evolutionary. According to Toumlin’s
understanding of Kuhn, the revolutionary process implies that
there is competition between paradigms which are mutually
exclusive; thus with paradigm shift one paradigm replaces the
other. Whereas the evolutionary process implies a cumulative
process in conceptual change. Kafatos and Nadeau7 also argue
that the process of advancement in science is cumulative and
evolutionary. Hoyningen-Huene8 provides insightful critique
and interpretation of certain points regarding the thesis
presented
by
Kuhn.
In
a
later
publication,
Kuhn9,
acknowledges the cumulative and evolutionary process in the
advance of science. Additionally, Kuhn also acknowledges in
his foreword to the writing of Hoynngen-Huene10 some of this
criticism. Notwithstanding such arguments, the work of Kuhn
in The Structure of Scientific Revolution is significant as it
provides valuable insights in the progression and advancement
of knowledge.
The question of whether the process of advancement of
science is evolutionary or revolutionary will not have a critical
bearing on the discussions presented in this paper. In fact, it is
likely that advances in knowledge have both characteristics;
that is an evolutionary process with features which may exhibit
revolutionary characteristics. Such a process may apply to the
advances in science in certain fields and under certain
conditions as well as to the Bahá’í paradigm of unity of
religions known as the principle of “Progressive Revelation”.
Inherent within the principle of Progressive Revelation is a
cumulative process and hence it is essentially an evolutionary
process; nevertheless, certain factors impart to it also a
revolutionary character. Thus the paradigm of Progressive
Revelation is an evolutionary process with revolutionary
features to which “paradigm shift” as well as “paradigm
expansion” can apply. This matter will be taken up in the
ensuing parts of this paper. The analysis and discussions of
Kuhn are insightful and are in particular applicable to the
thesis of this paper.
I. Advancement of Scientific Knowledge through
Paradigms
Kuhn provides several examples from the history of science
in order to explain and elucidate his thesis on “shift” in a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
scientific paradigm. Among these, the example of “Copernican
Revolution”, is appropriate and applicable to the thesis and
discussions which will be presented in this paper. The
Copernican Revolution was a tumultuous process which
precipitated the overthrow of the geocentric model of universe
and its replacement with a heliocentric model.
The Essential Stages of a Paradigm Shift
Kuhn identifies and describes several stages which, in
general, take place when a paradigm shift, whereby a new
paradigm replaces the established one.
He first emphasizes that paradigms are essential. Paradigms
are created based on the known scientific achievements in a
specific scientific community; they attempt to explain the
findings, on which there is, in general, agreement among the
scientists in a respective field. Paradigms are essential to
scientific inquiry. They play a significant role in helping the
scientists generate and formulate questions thus stimulating
further inquiries and research. These lead to continuing
scientific advancement and expansion in learning. Thus
paradigms set in motion a dynamic process leading to
escalating levels of research and expansion in knowledge.
The established paradigm generates questions and inquiries.
Such inquiries lead to new observations and data. Accumulated
data, in time, can result in what Kuhn calls “anomalies”;
anomalies are puzzles. The emerging data can no longer fit into
the pattern of thinking embodied in the established paradigm;
thus they generate puzzles. Puzzles persist as they can no longer
be explained in the context of the current paradigm. In time,
anomalous observations, mount resulting in what Kuhn calls, a
“crisis situation”. Kuhn emphasizes that the crisis itself must
be of such magnitude as to produce tension in the system
preparing it for a shift in paradigm. Ultimately, further
investigations into new findings, bring about or may even
force a paradigm shift. Thus the process becomes revolutionary
as the new emergent paradigm replaces the old established one.
It is a change in regime, a coup d’état. The new paradigm
necessitates a reconstruction of the original facts and
assumptions.
However, such a paradigm shift is not a smooth transition
as the emergent new paradigm faces opposition and resistance.
The resistance comes from those in the scientific community

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

who are committed to the old paradigm. There are desperate
efforts to hold on to the established paradigm by attempting to
modify and articulate it differently. Additionally, significant
challenges are posed by the new paradigm; as what is now
required is a retooling, a new language, new methodologies and
a whole new mindset. These challenges, when met, can induce
significant advancement in scientific knowledge.
Kuhn goes on to emphasize that the acceptance and
adoption of the new paradigm requires the rejection of the
older established one. When the new paradigm is adopted and
assimilated it is then that in the context of the new paradigm,
the scientists acquire a new way of looking at data, a whole new
worldview. Those observations and findings which seemed
anomalous can now be explained; puzzles are solved. Even the
old data take on their expanded and true meaning.
The Copernican Revolution
The “Copernican Revolution” is, in particular, a suitable
example for the application of the stages described by Kuhn in
process of a paradigm shift. Furthermore, it is also cogent to
the discussion of the Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation
(to be covered in the second part of this paper).
The Copernican Revolution illustrates the implications of
various stages, described by Kuhn, which lead to a shift in the
established geocentric paradigm of universe. The Ptolemic
paradigm of the universe had long ceased to make sense. It was
based on a pattern of thinking which had created dilemmas and
inconsistencies; the literal understanding of certain biblical
verses on Creation and the Christian doctrine of salvation
posed barriers which seemed impenetrable.
The understanding of cosmos has been a quest ever since the
emergence of man on planet earth. There has always been an
urge to explain the mystery of creation, in a comprehensible
manner in accordance with the state of knowledge of the time.
Explanation of the creation of universe was fundamental to
Greeks and Romans as well as to many religions. The Judeo
Christian view is that the universe had a distinct beginning in a
not very distant time in the past. According to the literal
statements in the Old Testament, the creation of the universe
took place in seven days. St. Augustine, accepted the date of
approximately 5000 B.C. as the date of creation of universe;
this he based on his understanding of the verses in the Book of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Genesis. He argued that time is a property of universe that God
created, thus time could not have existed before the beginning
of universe.
The Geocentric Paradigm of the Universe
Aristotle in 340 B.C. argued the sphericity of earth. He
believed that the Earth was stationary and that the sun, the
moon and the stars orbited around it in circles. This idea was
further elaborated by Ptolemy, the Greek astronomer in 140
A.D. into a complete cosmological model. He formulated the
old paradigm of Earth at the center of universe with moon,
sun, and planets revolving around it in circular orbits. This
was based on Plato’s view that the perfect form of motion was
the circular one. Earth was then at the center surrounded by
eight spheres that carried the moon, the sun, the stars and the
five known planets. The outermost sphere carried the fixed
stars. What lay beyond was not made clear as it was not
thought to be part of observable universe.
Ptolemy’s paradigm was conveniently supported, promoted
and adopted by the Christian church as the picture of universe
that was in accordance with the Scriptures. It reinforced and
was in line with the literal understanding of the Bible. Such a
model reinforced religious sentiments and was compatible with
the Christian doctrine of salvation through Jesus Christ for the
significant planet Earth, with its unique position of centrality
in the entire cosmos; for around it revolved all other heavenly
bodies including the Sun itself. The Ptolemic paradigm of
universe also provided a model for the placement of heaven. The
moon at one time had been considered the residence of the
souls of those who had passed away and are there waiting to
return for rebirth. Dante’s Divine Comedy was based on such a
model of universe.
It is of interest and puzzling that even the learned of Islam
seemed to believe in the Ptolemic theory of universe although
certain verses in the Qur’an pointed to the contrary11. One of
these verses12 states, “The sun moves in a fixed place,” This
clearly indicates that the sun is fixed and moves around an
axis.
Another Quranic verse13 states, “And each star moves in its
own heaven.”

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

The Paradigm Shift to Heliocentric Universe
The early Church found the cosmology of Aristotle and
Ptolemy convenient. No conflict arose as long as the language
of science was not in significant variance with their beliefs.
However, conflicts emerged in time. Anomalies surfaced and
accumulated. Increasing new observations and data were
presented by notable scientists such as Giordano Bruno, Tycho
Brahe, Johannes Kepler, Galileo, and others. These posed
puzzles which could not fit into the context of the Ptolemic
model of universe. Data presented by Copernicus in the
sixteenth century showed that the sun is the center of the
universe. In time, such mounting anomalies precipitated what
is known as the “Copernican Revolution”. The story of Genesis
no longer seemed to make sense.
The resistance to the new heliocentric model of universe was
vehement. Even when the model explained the new findings it
was still not accepted by the establishment. When Galileo
gathered evidence in support of the new model of universe with
the invention of telescope, he was denounced by the professors
in the university. He went before the Inquisition and was
forced to “abjure, curse and detest” these absurd ideas.
Giordono Bruno was burnt as a heretic in 1600 A.D., because
among other things, he taught that the earth revolved around
the sun.
The resistance to the new model of universe was such that
desperate attempts were made to retain the geocentric model of
universe. Although observations had shown that movement of
planets were not in smooth circles, they tried to address the
new data by introducing into the established paradigm absurd
accommodations, such as inclusion of epicircles into the
orbits of movement of planets. Such attempts at retaining the
geocentric model of universe persisted for centuries.
Mounting anomalies and inconsistencies finally forced the
paradigm to shift. The Ptolemic paradigm of a geocentric
universe was replaced by the Copernican paradigm of a
heliocentric universe. The process was tumultuous; similar to a
revolution, it resulted in overthrow of the regime of the
established paradigm. The adoption and assimilation of the
paradigm of heliocentric universe imparted an expanded
worldview. The new data now fit into the structure of the new
paradigm. The old data also fit! The old data and facts
remained unchanged; however, they took on their true

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
placement and expanded meaning in the context of the new
paradigm. The new paradigm served to stimulate further
observations and findings.
Learning and Insights from the Copernican Revolution
The Copernican Revolution provides important learning
and insights. An extensive discussion of these insights are
beyond the scope of this paper. However few points warrant
special emphasis.
The process of advancement in the knowledge of universe
through the Copernican Revolution followed an apparent
revolutionary path; this can be attributed, to a large extent, to
the barriers which were posed by religious dogmas. It is
reasonable to think that the paradigm shift which took place with
the Copernican Revolution, would have expanded the mindset to
the true meaning and implication of the scriptures. Are they to
be taken in a literal sense? Galileo, in his letter of 1615, to the
Grand Duchess, Christine, argued that Biblical writers had
neither intended nor wanted to convey scientific information
about the natural universe. Opening up of the mindset to the
inherent meaning of the scriptures must surely have relevance to
the paradigm of unity or religions.
Additionally, the advancement in the knowledge of cosmos,
also had an evolutionary feature as it was the result of
accretion of findings. The revolutionary part of this process
was unusually lengthy. It was not until Sir Isaac Newton in 1687,
published his basic laws of gravity in his book, Principia, that
the new model was accepted and the shift of paradigm was finally
completed. The stages described and analyzed by Kuhn provide
insights on the underlying factors which constituted barriers
to the acceptance of the new paradigm. However, once that
resistance was overcome and the paradigm was adopted and
assimilated, the process took on an evolutionary course. It
paved the way to new areas of research. Consequently, it has
taken us beyond the heliocentric universe to a universe of
superclusters of galaxies in a vast universe among many
universes. It has opened vistas of discoveries, and undreamt of
new possibilities. Opening up of new horizons regarding the
universe must surely have its counterpart in the universe of
religions.

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

II. Advancement of Religious Knowledge through
Paradigm of Unity of Religions (Progressive
Revelation)
The thesis of Kuhn has been widely employed in fields
outside the natural sciences. It is of particular value to apply
his analysis to the field of religion. Science and religion are two
dimensions of reality. The findings of science, whose domain is
the world of matter, are not absolute but relative and
progressive. The revelation of religious truth, whose domain is
the world of spirit, is also relative; it has infinite scope in its
essence but its revelation is progressive. It is important to note
that the process of advancement of scientific knowledge relates
to the physical reality and its manifestation in the phenomenal
world; whereas the process of advancement in the revelation of
divine truth is related to the divine reality and its manifestation
is through the divine educators. The former is investigated by
scientists and the latter is revelation emanating from the
ultimate reality, God. Both science and religion, however, are
facets of reality.
The profound insights derived from the Copernican
revolution, and the essential stages entailed in that process can
be applied to the Bahá’í worldview of unity of religions
(principle of Progressive Revelation). Kuhn’s thesis provides
novel insights regarding the nature of the challenges and the
opposition associated with various stages of a paradigm shift.
Thus the Copernican Revolution serves as an example for
discussion of the Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation.
There are similarities between the two processes in respect to: the
stages involved in paradigm shift or paradigm expansion; the
insights they both hold; and that both are affected by the
implications of religious dogmas.
The Progressive Revelation
The worldview (paradigm) prevalent among the followers of
religions is that their respective religion has exclusive hold on
God’s absolute truth and that all others are bereft of that
knowledge. Furthermore, they hold the conviction that their
religion provides the only path to salvation and that all others
are bereft of it. These beliefs are based on the limited and literal
understandings of the respective scriptures.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Such a limited paradigm of religious truth adopted by a
particular religion may have been more acceptable at a time in
the course of history of humankind when people were
geographically isolated from one another. Under such
conditions this paradigm may have served its adherents as it
induced inspiration, focus, and was relevant to their
particular needs.
Rising Anomalies and Puzzles
However, with the passage of time the world has emerged out
of isolation. Increasing possibilities and opportunities of this
global age have generated anomalies and puzzles; these can no
longer be addressed by any paradigm which is limited and does
not have answers to the challenges of a world on the verge of a
planetary civilization. Increasing interaction among people,
cultures and religions generate their own set of puzzles. These
have accumulated posing conflicts which can not be resolved
by the prevailing paradigm of exclusivity of truth held by one
religion.
Technological
advances
have
resulted
in
rapid
transportation, communication and mass immigrations. As a
consequence, people of diverse ethnicities, cultures and
religious backgrounds have been brought into close proximity.
Significant inter-religious exposures have been possible in this
global age. We have the opportunity to associate with and
establish friendships with those from the Buddhist, Hindu,
Moslem, Jewish, and Zoroastrian backgrounds. Thus we have
become increasingly aware of other religions; of the nobility
and truths inherent in their teachings, of the transformation in
character such truths can induce and generate in their
followers. The awareness of other religions can inspire study of
their respective scriptures. Previously, if one studied religions
other than one’s own, it would have been most likely through an
occasional course on comparative religions. Such studies often
compared religions in reference to, for example, Christianity.
There are questions that now arise. For example, “How does
one reconcile in the context of the paradigm of exclusivity of
salvation, the mystical sentiments of numerous twentieth
century physicists with the beautiful spiritual writings of the
Buddhists? Such were the probing questions which were raised
by the participants of the Second Parliament of World
Religions in Chicago in 1993. Several of the major presenters in
that Conference were struggling with such anomalies and

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

puzzles when placed in the confines of an old paradigm of
exclusivity. It was impossible to participate in those sessions
and not pose and reflect on numerous such questions. The
paradigm of exclusivity of Truth and salvation was workable at
a time and in a world characterized by geographical isolation.
However, no longer. No paradigm which claims to hold
absolute
religious
truth
and
exclusive
salvation
can
accommodate the puzzling observations and needs of our
times. Surely, the followers of other religions must also have a
grasp of the truth. Their sacred texts are uplifting and also
inculcate nobility of character. We can rightly ask, whether
their scriptures also emanate from the divine source? Are they
deprived of salvation? Here, we are faced with major puzzles.
Those of us who have hitherto held the belief that one religion
holds the exclusive truth and the only route to salvation, are
faced with such mounting questions and must consider
whether we can provide a satisfying solution. This poses a
major dilemma. How can we uphold the prevailing paradigm of
religious truth centered around one religion as the exclusive
possessor of Truth and salvation? Is this paradigm of
exclusivity meaningful and workable? Such observations and
questions pose challenges to church instituted doctrines.
On one hand any attempt to fit these anomalies into the
limited paradigm of exclusivity of salvation introduces yet
greater complexity. On the other hand, viewing these in the
context of Bahá’í paradigm of unity of religions provides
viable and refreshing solutions to the puzzles.
Another anomalous observation of our particular times
arises from the expanded knowledge of our universe; a universe
encompassing countless superclusters of galaxies, each
harboring numerous galaxies and each galaxy in turn with
numerous solar systems with their own planets. This raises the
inevitable question: Are there other solar systems with planets
like our planet which are capable of harboring intelligent life?
Are these intelligent beings also engraven with the image of
God? Is salvation also open to them? Such questions can
inevitably take us once again to the doctrine of exclusivity of
salvation. Any limited paradigm which applies only to our
planet has major inconsistencies.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Crisis situation
Such mounting anomalies have reached a point which Kuhn
describes, a “crisis situation”; the crisis confronts and poses
challenge to the prevailing paradigm of exclusivity of truth and
salvation. How can these be accommodated in the context of a
paradigm which may have worked well when cultures and
religions were geographically isolated and the knowledge of
universe was limited? How can we explain these findings and
observations in an increasingly interdependent world? In order
to flourish spiritually as well as materially in a multi-religious
world community we are compelled to expand our paradigm
and with it transform our worldview.
The Bahá’í Paradigm of Unity of Religions
The Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation is a dynamic
and viable substitute paradigm; it provides a major expansion
in one’s worldview of religions. The paradigm of unity of
religions as presented by the Bahá’í Faith, affirms that divine
truth is absolute and that its revelation over time through the
Manifestations of God (divine educators) is relative and
progressive. God’s knowledge has been revealed over time
progressively through Krishna, Zoroaster, Buddha, Moses,
Jesus, Muhammad, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. All of these great
religions are from the same source; they are interrelated and
their missions are interconnected. They all encompass the same
essence, a common core which runs through all of them. These
Divine Educators bring inspiration for the regeneration of the
individual and society; and provide solutions for the urgent
needs of the time. All of the great religions of the world come
together at this point in the course of human history when the
planet has become one interdependent entity; thus the needs
and requirements of all now merge into one. This requires the
new and expanded paradigm of a common Faith which can
acknowledge and accept the validity of all the religions of the
world. The Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation provides
a dynamic worldview. Its specific mission is to inspire the
transformation of humankind and guide it toward the
realization of oneness of the human race and a planetary
civilization.

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

Presentation of Progressive Revelation through the Use of
Diagrams
Here, I would like to explain certain key features of the
Bahá’í principle of Progressive Revelation through the use of
several diagrams (see end of article). It is my hope to convey my
understanding of certain of its important concepts.
Nevertheless, I have an acute awareness that such mode of
presentation has its own inherent limitations and that no
diagrammatic representation can adequately convey a spiritual
principle which is at once mystical, multidimensional,
profound and dynamic. However, the responses to my use of
such diagrams in various settings have been encouraging. Thus,
one can only surmise, based on the level of response and the
ensuing discussions, that this mode of presentation through
use of diagrams can be of value in serving to elucidate, albeit in
a limited way, certain aspects of the Bahá’í paradigm of
Progressive Revelation. More importantly, such diagrams have
served as springboards in stimulating further discussions and
critique leading in turn to expanded understanding of such a
dynamic paradigm. In this process, I have personally reaped the
results and remain its greatest beneficiary.
Figure 1 (at end), is a diagrammatic representation of the
Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation showing continuing
progression in disclosure of divine truth over time. The circles
(seen in this figure as ovals) represent revelation through
successive dispensations brought by the divine educators:
Krishna, Buddha, Zoroaster, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, and
the Twin Manifestations, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. These
religions all include the same core of truth, represented in this
diagram by the symbol of the radiant sun. That core relates to a
divine reality which is infinite. The Bahá’í principle of
Progressive Revelation upholds that the disclosure of divine
truth through the divine educators over time is in proportion
and in response to the requirements of time (as well as place).
Figure 2, is a diagrammatic representation of the Bahá’í
paradigm of Progressive Revelation. This diagram is similar to
the previous figure; however it is a rendition which draws
attention to the essential connection between the divine
dispensations. Thus it underscores the interconnection and
linkages among religions. The revelation of God’s Truth
through divine educators continues on into the future.
Bahá’u’lláh has made it very clear that His revelation is not
final and that it will be continued through future

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
dispensations. The dashed curved line in this diagram
represents this important key point. Thus the Bahá’í paradigm
of Progressive Revelation addresses a major problem which has
caused so much contention and animosity in the past. This has
been a misunderstanding due to the perceived exclusivity of
salvation in the Church instituted doctrine of salvation and
the finality of the revelation to Muhammad in Islam. These
have been major barriers leading to fundamentalism,
fanaticism, persecutions and brutality in the name of religion.
Figure 3, is a diagrammatic representation of the Bahá’í
paradigm of Progressive Revelation. This diagram is similar to
Figure 1. It focuses on the common features of religions. This
diagram attempts to call attention to the need for a different
perspective, a different point of view in looking at religions.
Please note that the rotation of the successive circles
(representing dispensations/religions) at a 450 angle around the
axis of their common core (represented by the sun) gives us the
figure inserted in the upper right corner. This inserted figure
represents a view of religions showing them as concentric
circles, surrounding a common core at their very center; the
core is represented by the sun. This common core is their divine
center. We can obtain the perspective represented by the
inserted figure, only when we refine our point of view; that is if
we look directly on, focused on that inner essence, through the
core (similar to the rotation of 450 degree angle, as indicated
above). This can serve as an effective metaphor for the use of
perspective when viewing religions; that is to look directly with
undeviating focus on the core. It is then that we begin to see
that all of these great religions are in essence, one. They are all
from the same divine source and they surround the same
reality.
Figure 4, is a diagrammatic representation of the Unified
Paradigm of Religions. This figure is an enlargement of the
insert in figure 3, which was obtained by rotation of the figure
at 450 angle around the axis of its central core. This diagram
underscores the common features shared by all religions,
specifically in two respects: a). The concentric circles all
encompass the same radiant common core of the infinite
reality (represented by the sun); this was discussed in the
context of the previous figure b). The common areas (the
overlaps) shared by religions. They share common areas
(overlaps) but also include additional portions. The additional
portions are in response to the needs and challenges of
respective times; the mission of religion is to inspire the

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

regeneration of the individual and the society as well as to
provide solutions to the challenges and urgent needs of the
time. This paradigm emphasizes the cumulative and hence the
evolutionary aspect of this process. The revelation of the divine
truth which is imparted through religions is progressive. The
Bahá’í paradigm of continuing Progressive Revelation provides
a whole new way of looking at the diversity of religions. It
imbues one with a new worldview.
The core inherent in all of the religions of the world is like
that radiant inner reality depicted in figures 1 through 4. The
core includes, such divine truths as belief in God, the soul of
man, the immortality of the soul, the kingdoms of God, as well
as some other beliefs. The core beliefs are also revealed to man
over time progressively in greater and greater measure (see
Figures 1 and 3). For example, Bahá’u’lláh has revealed writings
about realities such as God, the soul, the stages of the journey
of the soul, the immortality of the soul, the spiritual worlds of
God, and other truths in a significantly larger proportion than
that which had been imparted through the past revelations.
Thus the disclosure of divine knowledge regarding the core
truths also increases progressively with each successive
Revelation.
Additionally, this figure calls our attention to the
continuation of Revelation into the future. The outward
directed arrows in figure 4, emphasize that revelation through
the divine educators will continue on into the future, after the
dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh,. Thus according to the worldview
of unity of religions presented by Bahá’u’lláh, there can never
be a claim to finality in revelation. God’s truth is infinite and
cannot be given in totality through any one dispensation.
Further, the needs and challenges of an ever developing and
changing world require continuation of divine guidance.
Figure 5, is a diagrammatic representation of Progressive
Revelation over time and space through the major religions of
the world. The Hindu, and Buddhist religions are shown,
separate in space from Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian,
Moslem, the Bábí and Bahá’í religions.
The Hindu and Buddhist Faiths appeared in a part of the
world which was geographically isolated from that part of the
world from which arose the Zoroastrian, the Jewish, the
Christian, the Moslem, the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths. However,
at this juncture in history of humankind when the planet has

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
become one entity through the advances in science and
technology, all of these religion now come together in one
common Faith. Note the line connecting the Hindu and
Buddhist religions to the Bábí and Bahá’í Faith. The specific
mission of the Bahá’í Faith is to address the urgent needs of
humankind at a time when geographical isolation no longer
poses a hindrance. Our world is on the verge of globalization
with its attendant urgent challenges. These challenges must be
addressed and guided toward the realization of a viable and
sustainable planetary civilization. A viable paradigm of unity
of religions, as presented by the Bahá’í principle of Progressive
Revelation, is an absolute essential. It constitutes the
framework for the Bahá’í convictions, actions and worldview.
The Buddhist, the Hindu, the Zoroastrian, the Jewish, the
Christian, and the Moslem dispensations are under the Adamic
cycle with Muhammad, the Seal of the prophets ending this
cycle (see figure 5). The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh initiated the Bahá’í
Cycle (see figure 5),
In reflecting on Progressive Revelation, it is important to be
cognizant of the implications of the factors of geographical
and cultural milieu to which each divine educator brought His
message. The divine educators came to differing tribes and
cultures who were at differing levels of development and
receptivity. For example, Muhammad came to dissenting tribes
of idol worshipers, whereas Jesus came to the Jewish people
who were monotheistic. We can appreciate the relative
magnitude of advancement (progression) in divine revelation
which took place through Muhammad in isolated Arabia
amidst backward peoples and tribes. They were idolaters and
became monotheistic. The revelation of Muhammad induced in
these people a significant level of advancement which some view
as a quantum leap.
Selections from the Bahá’í authoritative writings on
Progressive Revelation
The Bahá’í paradigm of continuing Progressive Revelation
encompasses salient points and certain key concepts conveyed
through the following selections from Bahá’í authoritative
writings through the following passages.
The fundamental principle enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh …
is that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that
Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

process, that all the great religions of the world are
divine in origin, that their basic principles are in
complete harmony, that their aims and purposes are
one and the same, that their teachings are but facets of
one truth, that their functions are complementary,
that they differ only in the nonessential aspects of their
doctrines, and that their missions represent successive
stages in the spiritual evolution of human society….14
His Cause, they have already demonstrated, stands
identified with, and revolves around, the principle of
the organic unity of mankind as representing the
consummation of the whole process of human
evolution. This final stage in this stupendous
evolution, they assert, is not only necessary but
inevitable, that it is gradually approaching, and that
nothing short of the celestial potency with which a
divinely ordained Message can claim to be endowed
can succeed in establishing it.15
The
Revelation
identified
with
Bahá’u’lláh…
unhesitatingly acknowledges itself to be but one link in
the chain of continually Progressive Revelations,
supplements their teachings with such laws and
ordinances as conform to the imperative needs, and are
dictated by the growing receptivity, of a fast evolving
and constantly changing society, and proclaims its
readiness and ability to fuse and incorporate the
contending sects and factions into which they have
fallen into a universal Fellowship, functioning within
the framework, and in accordance with the precepts, of
a divinely conceived, a world-unifying, a world-
redeeming Order.16
The Resistance to the Paradigm
The Bahá’í Paradigm of continuing Progressive Revelation
was articulated and proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh in 1863. This
paradigm has been met with resistance, opposition and
rejection. The resistance may be compared, albeit, at a
heightened level, to the opposition and resistance which
confronted the shift of the paradigm of universe from the
geocentric to the heliocentric.
Much of this resistance and opposition can be attributed to
attachments and entrenchments in the paradigm of exclusivity

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
of truth as held by one religion. The implications of the process
of paradigm shift from the paradigm of exclusivity to the
Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation are intriguing. Such
a paradigm shift similar to that which took place with the
Copernican Revolution has implications of the element of
religious dogma which was based on literal understanding of
the scriptures. Again in this context, for the Christians, this is
due to the Church instituted doctrine of exclusivity of
salvation through Jesus Christ and for the Moslems it is the
finality of God’s revelation with Muhammad.
Thus there continues to be rejection and opposition to the
Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation. Such rejection and
vehement opposition have been to the extent of persecution,
imprisonments, and exile of Bahá’u’lláh, the prophet Founder
of the Bahá’í Faith, who presented this paradigm in mid
nineteenth century. The intensity of persecutions, burnings,
imprisonments and martyrdom of the proponents of the Bahá’í
paradigm have persisted to this day. Over 20,000 who adopted
and defended this paradigm were put to death. Such rejection
and resistance are reminiscent, to some extent, of the
opposition to the heliocentric universe.
Attempts are made to accommodate solutions to the puzzles
which face us within the context of the structure,
methodologies and restricted mindset of the old paradigm.
This is reminiscent of the attempts which were made to retain
the geocentric model of universe by accommodating the new
data on the length of orbits around the sun through the
introduction of epicircles. It did not work. Likewise attempts
to accommodate the requirements for unity of religions in the
context of the old paradigm of exclusivity of truth does not
work. The established structures, systems and organizations
are defective and incapable of addressing the unification of
religions and the urgent needs of our global age. Attempts to
force fit the needs of our times into the established paradigm
can only create further friction causing the breakage of its
framework. Nothing can work which is short of a total
acceptance and appreciation of the divine origin of all
religions and the continuing progression of religious truth.
Adoption of Paradigm
In order to adopt this expanded paradigm of religions
barriers must be overcome. Howard Margolis17 considers the
well entrenched “habits of the mind”, the barriers to a new

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

paradigm. These well entrenched habits of the mind include the
religious dogmas and the literal understanding of scriptures.
Additionally, there are needs and challenges associated with the
adoption of the Bahá’í worldview. The paradigm of Progressive
Revelation requires adoption of a whole new mindset; a
restructuring, a reeducation, a retooling, and a whole new
language. New methodologies hitherto unknown, must be
developed.
Thoughtful reflection on the Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive
Revelation, is compelling that its adoption can have powerful
implications. It imbues one with a new worldview; all of a
sudden beliefs and doctrines take on their true and expanded
meaning. Furthermore, the accumulating anomalies and puzzles
which have arisen in the context of the prevailing paradigms of
religions can find their resolution.
Assimilation of Paradigm
When the expanded paradigm of Progressive Revelation is
adopted and assimilated one is able to overcome the barrier of
religious dogmas on exclusivity of truth and salvation limited
to one religion. It is then that the anomalies and puzzles find
their solution. Assimilation of this paradigm is tantamount to
opening up of new vistas, vast horizons and new undreamt of
possibilities. The Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive Revelation has
now been assimilated by over some six million inhabitants of
our planet. Its transformative power has been set in motion
radiating out from this relatively small but significant
percentage of humanity. When this paradigm is adopted by a
critical mass of the inhabitant of this planet, it is then that a
fuller measure of its transformative power will be felt.
Discussion
Comparisons between The paradigm of Progressive Revelation
and The Paradigm of the Heliocentric Universe
The paradigm of Progressive Revelation can be compared
and contrasted in certain respects with the paradigm of the
heliocentric universe.
The paradigm of universe is based on scientific discoveries
and the paradigm of Progressive Revelation is based on
revelations whose source is the divine reality. Religion and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
science are in harmony and from the same source of knowledge;
however they differ in their domains, their language and modes
of expression. Scientific advancement is brought about by
scientists reaching out to uncover the mysteries of outer
phenomena. Religious progression and advancement are
brought by the Divine Educators who provide to man guidance
from that ultimate reality, God.
The following quotes from Bahá’í sacred Scriptures warrant
in-depth reflection:
Science may be likened to a mirror wherein the images
of the mysteries of outer phenomena are reflected. It
brings forth and exhibits to us in the arena of
knowledge all the product of the past. It links together
past and present”…. Science is the governor of nature
and its mysteries, the one agency by which man
explores the institutions of material creation. (Abdu’l-
Bahá’ in BWF 242)
Religion is the outer expression of the divine reality.
Therefore, it must be living, vitalized, moving and
progressive. (Abdu’l-Bahá’ in BWF 224)
The stage of acceptance of the Bahá’í paradigm of
Progressive Revelation bears similarities to the stage of
acceptance of the paradigm of heliocentric universe (in
reference to the thesis of Kuhn). Both were confronted with the
barriers of religious dogmas and the literal understanding of
scriptures. The heliocentric model of universe was finally
accepted after centuries. The paradigm of Progressive
Revelation which was presented in 1863 by Bahá’u’lláh
continues to face this barrier. Both paradigms have elicited
vehement oppositions and reactions from those entrenched and
committed to the previously established paradigms.
The adoption of the Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive
Revelation confers to each religion its rightful place; not at the
center, but rather as a planet revolving around that center,
God, the Sun of Truth. The Copernican revolution provides a
powerful metaphor. With the adoption of paradigm of a
heliocentric universe things took on new meaning. Earth was
no longer at the center of universe with the moon, the known
planets as well as the Sun itself, revolving around it; rather
earth was one planet revolving around the sun. The sun was no
longer a planet revolving around the earth; rather it was at the
very center. The meaning and significance of the sun and planet

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

earth changed radically. Such a transition had profound
implications introducing a significantly higher level of
comprehension.
It
changed
and
transformed
Earth
centeredness into Sun centeredness.
Similarly the assimilation of the Bahá’í paradigm of
Progressive
Revelation,
can
bring
about
a
major
transformation in our worldview from exclusivity to
inclusivity of truth. The different religions find their proper
placements as planets revolving around the Sun of Truth, God.
The transition of worldview from dogma centeredness to God
centeredness can bring about a profound transformation. The
divine reality, God, takes on its rightful place at the very center
with religions coursing along their orbits around it!
When paradigms change our world view changes. We begin to
see things in a whole new way. We see them in a different light.
We begin to see what we did not see before. This is tantamount
to a major transformation; it is a gestalt switch. The work of the
Hanover Institute provides an interesting metaphor. In
experiments when the subject wears a goggle with inverting
lenses, initially he becomes disoriented for the world is seen
upside down; however some time after, the visual field inverts
over and the world is seen right side up18. A transformation has
taken place in visual gestalt. When paradigms change our
worldview changes.
It is important to emphasize that with the adoption of the
new paradigm, old data can be explained and confirmed taking
on new meaning. In the context of the new paradigm the
fundamental facts remain unchanged. The fundamental facts
about the universe did not change with the shift in paradigm of
universe. The fundamental truth underlying religions does not
change in the context of the Bahá’í paradigm of unity of
religions. The truth does not change!
The process of advancement in knowledge of universe,
specifically through the Copernican Revolution, demonstrates
features which can be compared to that of the Bahá’í paradigm
of unity of religions (Progressive Revelation). Both have
revolutionary features although they are essentially evolutionary
processes. The knowledge of the universe has advanced through
observations, findings and collection of data; thus these findings
have been cumulative and therefore evolutionary. The Bahá’í
principle of Progressive Revelation upholds that the revelation of
God’s truth to man is progressive; hence in essence, it is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
cumulative and thus evolutionary. However, the implications of
religious dogmas introduce to it a de facto revolutionary
feature. The revolutionary features of both, the heliocentric
model of universe and the Bahá’í principle of Progressive
Revelation can be attributed, to a great extent, to the
implications of religious dogmas. This point was discussed in a
previous section of this paper.
It is important to note that the resistance to the change of
paradigm of universe from geocentric to heliocentric, persisted
over several centuries. However, after that first crucial shift,
that coup d’état, had taken place, research and advancement in
science of universe took on an evolutionary path leading over
time to smooth expansion of paradigms. The rate of
accumulation of data on the knowledge of universe has since
increased by leaps and bounds. Similarly, it is anticipated that
once that initial resistance to the Bahá’í paradigm of Progressive
Revelation is overcome and once the essential tools and
methodologies develop, then the process leading to the adoption
of the paradigm of unity of religions will show significant
acceleration.
It must be borne in mind that the term revolutionary is often
used when the discovery is such that it marks a turning point in
the particular field. There are numerous examples of such
revolutionary processes. In the field of biology, the acceptance
of the structure of DNA as shown through the data of Watson
and Crick as well as those of other scientists, revolutionized the
field. In the domain of religion, the paradigm of unity of
religions as presented by the Bahá’í principle of Progressive
Revelation, has significant implications such that it can
revolutionize mindsets and civilizations. This, in particular, has
profound implications at this critical juncture in history when
humankind is facing the challenges of globalization.
Concluding Comments
In recent times, the urgent need for addressing the rising
religious fanaticism and fundamentalism is deeply felt by
many. There is increase in interfaith activities, groups, and
organizations with the noble mission of improving inter-
religious dialogues and fellowship. This, they see as a solution
in addressing the conflicts which have arisen in our global
society. All these attempts underscore the urgency in
addressing the ever intensifying need for a vital, viable,

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

sustainable and an all encompassing worldview of unity of
religions. There is a dire need for a paradigm which can unify
all religions. The need for such a paradigm has been there for
some time. Leo Tolstoy, the eminent Russian writer and
philosopher of the early twentieth century was among those
who wished to resolve the question of religious differences and
even contemplated to construct a universal religion which
would encompass all religions. However, the enormity of the
task is such that nothing short of a force with the potency to
transmute mindsets and elevate human consciousness, is
capable of bringing about a transformation of such
magnitude. One may ask, what agency has such potency?
The Bahá’í principle of Progressive Revelation is a candidate
paradigm for bringing about the unification of religions,
cultures and nation in this global age. The acceptance and
adoption of the Bahá’í paradigm of unity of religions can
provide solutions to the dilemmas and needs of our time. Yet,
its acceptance continues to follow a long and difficult path
strewn with resistance and barriers. However, once it is
adopted and assimilated it is bound to bring about a major
transformation in our global society.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Legends to Figures 1 through 5

Paradigm of Progressive Revelation showing progression over time
This figure is a diagrammatic representation of the Bahá’í
paradigm of Progressive Revelation showing continuing
progression in divine truth. The circles represent successive
revelation of God’s truth through the divine educators:
Buddha, Krishna, Zoroaster, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad and the
Twin Manifestations, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. (labeled) The
core, that essence of divine truth within each religion, is
represented by the symbol of the sun.

The essential connection between the divine educators

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions

This figure is a diagrammatic representation of the paradigm.
This diagram is similar to Fig. 1, but this rendering emphasizes
the interconnection and the essential linkages between the
religions brought by the divine educators. The dashed curved
line indicates continuity of revelation into the future.

Features shared by religions: A fresh perspective
This figure is similar to Figure 1 but from different angle of
view. The successive circles (representing dispensations/
religions) are rotated 450 around the axis of their common
core. This results in the figure shown in insert at the upper
right hand corner of this figure. The inserted figure shows
those religions (dispensations) as concentric circles containing
a common corner; this is shown by the image of sun at the
center of concentric circles. This concentric circle provides a
fresh perspective on the paradigm of Progressive Revelation.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

Unified Paradigm of Religions
Fig. 4 is an enlargement of the insert from Fig. 3, which was
obtained by rotation of the successive circles (representing
dispensations/religions) at 450 around the axis of their central
common core. This figure represents concentric circles all
encompassing the same common core (represented by the Sun at
the center) of the infinite Divine reality. The circles include
common areas and overlaps which are shared by consecutive
circles.
The
outward
directed
arrows
emphasize
that
continuation of revelation through the divine educators will
continue into the future.

Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions


Paradigm of Progressive Revelation showing progression over time, space
This figure is a diagrammatic representation of the major
religions of the world over time and space of which we have
record. These religions arose in different parts of the world and
have been in the past geographically isolated. The Buddhist and
the Hindu arose from India and the Zoroastrian, the Jewish,
the Christian, the Moslem, the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths arose
in the Middle East and the Arabian peninsula. Please note the
connecting linkage (at this point in time) of the Hindu and
Buddhist religions to the twin manifestations the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. The Buddhist, the Hindu, the Zoroastrian, the
Jewish, the Christian, and the Moslem dispensations are under
the Adamic cycle with Muhammad the seal, the end of that
cycle. The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh initiated the Bahá’í Cycle.

NOTES
Author’s note: I want to express my appreciation to Dr. Feridun
Khodadadeh for his encouragement and interest in the ideas presented
in this paper. Our discussions and discourses on science helped form
my resolve to present the Bahá’í principle of Progressive Revelation in
the context of Kuhnian paradigm shift and expansion, and in particular
to use diagrams in my attempt to explain the central concepts of the
Progressive Revelation, such a mystical, multi dimensional and dynamic
principle. To him I am indebted.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

1 This paper was organized for the 2008 session of Irfán Colloquium to
honor the centennial of the publication of Some Answered Questions.
The essential relationship between the manifestations of God and the
principle of “Progressive Revelation” are major themes in the talks and
writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá including several chapters of Some Answered
Questions (SAQ). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Part I, of SAQ, entitled, “Influence
of the Prophets in the Evolution of Humanity” (chapters 3 to 9), extols
the divine Educators, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammad, the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh and in Part III, entitled, “On the Powers and Conditions of
the Manifestations of God” (chapter 41), He refers to the universal
cycles of divine manifestations.
2 Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolution, (Chicago: The
University of Chicago Press, 1962)
3 Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolution, (Chicago: The
University of Chicago Press, 1964)
4 Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolution, Second Edition
(Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1970)
5 Howard Margolis, Paradigms and Barriers, How Habits of Mind Govern
Scientific Belief, (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1993)
6 Stephen Toulmin, Human Understanding, The collective use and evaluation
of Concepts, (Princeton University press, 1972)
7 Kafatos and Nadeau, see introduction to The Conscious Universe: Parts
and Whole in Physical Reality, (Springer, second Edition, 2001)
8 Paul Hoyningen-Huene, Reconstructing Scientific Revolution, (Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press, 1993)
9 Thomas S. Kühn, “Reflections on my critics” in: Criticism and Growth of
Knowledge, Eds. I. Lakatos and A. Musgrave, 231-238. (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1970).
10 Paul Hoynngen-Huene, Reconstructing Scientific Revolution, (The
University of Chicago Press, 1993)
11 Abdu’l-Baha, see Some Answered Questions, p. 23.
12 Qur’an 36:37
13 Qur’an 36:38
14 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. v
15 Shoghi Effendi, Extracts from the Unites States Bahá’í News
16 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 100
17 Howard Margolis, Paradigms and Barriers, How Habits of Mind Govern
Scientific Belief, (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1993)
18 Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolution, Second Edition,
(Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1970)

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
Introduction
Once, on a pleasant Sunday afternoon in Washington, a
gentle nobleman’s carriage stops at the door of a beautiful
house. He rings the bell. He waits for a while. No one answers.
He is tired but waits a little longer. He rings the bell again and
still no one answers. He turns back and returns to his place of
residence. He has already been to this house a few days earlier.
He knows the owner of the house and her daughter. He is
paying a last visit to say farewell to the hostess who had invited
Him several times during His stay and graciously entertained
Him.
Who is this nobleman? Why is He there? Who are the owners
of the house? When was that?
That was almost 100 years ago. The year is 1912. The house is
Studio House.1 The nobleman is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The owners are
the Barney family of Washington. The author passes in front of
this house regularly and cannot forget the image of the Master
standing in front that house, knocking on its door! How sad a
day it was in 2000 when she learned that the house was being
sold and its contents auctioned off.2
The author was able to visit the house and see the furniture
and objects belonging to the Barney family which were up for
auction. Much of the furniture was original, perhaps used by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá while enjoying a meal or being entertained by His
hosts. This was the last time anyone could see the house with its
original contents.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

Alice Barney-Hemmick’s home in Washington, D.C., c. 1912
‘Abdu’l-Bahá came to this house for dinner and for tea
several times during His three visits to Washington, DC in
April and May of 1912.3 This was the house designed and built
by Laura Barney’s mother in 1903 and called Studio House.
Prominent people, artists, authors, musicians and diplomats
and even the president of the US had frequented these rooms,
known for their opulence, peculiar and artistically exciting
architecture.
Later, Studio House was inherited by Barney daughters.4
Laura donated the House and its contents to Smithsonian
Institution, a research and education center, to be used as a

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
cultural center.5 Several years after Laura’s passing, the
Smithsonian decided to sell the House because of its expensive
upkeep. It was at that time that the author became interested
to learn about the life of Laura Barney and began her research.
Unfortunately very limited published material was found on
her.
Who is Laura Barney?
Why should we know
about her? What are
some
of
her
achievements? How did
she become a Bahá’í?
Where was she from?
We immediately know
of her from her greatest
legacy, the book called
Some
Answered
Questions published in
1908.
Who
was
this
person
who
conjured
such deep and intriguing
questions for ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá? Why did she spend
months in the prison
city of Akka? What else
did she do?
Laura Clifford
Barney
In this paper, the
author attempts to answer some of these questions. But even
this is not easy. Unfortunately Laura’s personal notes and
diaries were stolen during the Nazi occupation of Paris
between 1940 and 1944.6 Hopefully after this research is
completed and a proper biography compiled, more light will be
shed on the life of this distinguished Bahá’í figure. Today we
begin with a glimpse into her life.
The author believes that proper recognition has eluded Laura
Dreyfus Barney both within the Bahá’í community as well as the
world. One reason may be the lack of her diaries or memoirs.
Another factor may be that she still stands in the shadow of her

Laura Barney, c. 1900

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
prominent and accomplished spouse, Hippolyte Dreyfus-
Barney. Yet another might be that she divided her time between
two countries, which was uncommon in those days. Therefore
her heroism has been lost in unexamined history.
The
author
shares
her
story,
compiled
from
original
documents
and
memoirs with a minimum of
interpretation;
revolving
around her life and the
activities of her family.
The three major periods in
the life of Laura Dreyfus-
Barney can be considered:
1. Her family and childhood
(1879-1900);
2. Becoming a Bahá’í, her
Bahá’í
activities
and
accomplishments, meeting
and
marrying
Hippolyte
Dreyfus (1900-1928)
3. Her life after the passing
of her husband (1928-1974).
First Period (1879-1900):
Her Family and
Childhood
Laura Clifford Barney was
born on Nov. 30, 1879 to a
family of industrialists and
artists in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Her mother was Alice Pike,
the daughter of Samuel Pike,
a
multi-millionaire
entre-
preneur with wide-ranging
interests.
He
collected
paintings and rare books,
played
the
flute,
wrote
poetry, and built an opera
house in his city. From childhood Alice was surrounded by the

Alice Pike-Barney, Laura’s mother, in 1913

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
arts. Also at an early age, she was exposed to the robust
creativity of Europe which increased her life-long passion for
the arts.
Alice was an artist, writer, theater director, philanthropist,
and prominent civic and social leader. With her wealth and
social connections, she became a powerful ally for the arts
when her family moved to the capital of the United States in
1889. She was a “willful, eclectic, and ‘eccentric,’ a term used to
explain her lack of conformity to many conventions and
mores.”7 In Washington and Paris, her name was synonymous
with an unwavering commitment to the culture of creativity.
Laura’s
father,
Albert Clifford Barney,
was a wealthy Dayton,
Ohio manufacturer and
financier.
They
were
married in 1876. Their
first child, Natalie, was
born the same year.
Laura was born 3 years
later. They had a rich
and
privileged
child-
hood, enjoying “satin-
lined sheets and flower-
bedecked
baby
carriages.”8 They had
French governesses and
private tutors for the
early
years
of
their
education. They were
accustomed to wealth
and luxury from early
years of their lives.
Their summer residence
was
a
house
with
twenty-six rooms!
Laura’s parents decided to send their daughters to boarding
school in France and sent them to Les Ruches (in France) in
1886 for their studies.9 Their mother approved of this decision
since her marriage to Albert was not a happy one. Her husband
had a difficult personality. She decided to accompany the

Natalie and Laura, c. 1900

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
daughters. By moving to Paris, she could be near her daughters
and pursue her own interests such as taking painting lessons.
As to the characters of the two sister, they were as opposite
in personality as they were in coloring. Natalie was blond and
fearless. Laura was brunette, dark and serious; spending many
days quietly posing for her mother. “While Laura looked upon
her parents with adoring eyes, unable to recognize that they
might be less than perfect, Natalie harbored no illusions.”10
While growing up, Laura never caused any problems for her
parents. She had an over developed sense of duty. Her mother
would
look
at
“her
somber
dark-haired
daughter
in
amazement.”11 Laura was a diligent student and she always
tried to improve. She was thirteen years old when she returned
to America and entered a Catholic convent school in
Washington. A few years earlier, her father had moved the
family to Washington, DC.
Though Laura was younger than her sister, their roles were
reversed in their youth. It was “Natalie who sought out the
practical younger sister to take care of mundane matters.”12
Even in her youth, Laura was quite different. The signs of
her keen intelligence and curious nature had started to emerge
at a very young age. There were only serious thoughts in her
head which was not a family characteristic. She showed a keen
intelligence and inquisitive nature with insightful observations
from an early age.13 Perhaps it was the daily presence of
physical pain from a leg injury which left her with a limp that
had made her “both introspective and practical in equal
doses.”14
When her family returned to Paris in 1898, Laura, then 19,
and her sister often attended their mother’s gatherings in Paris:
Laura often participated in the intellectual discussions among
influential writers and artists.15 She studied dramatic arts and
sculpture in Paris. She was very much intrigued with theater
like her mother, which was surprising given her naturally quiet
and retiring personality.16 She later wrote 25 short stories and
at least two plays.17
In those years, her parents’ differences were becoming
irreconcilable, with her father giving way to rages and excessive
drinking.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Second Period (1900-1928)
Hearing about the Bahá’í Faith, her Family’s Reaction and
Meeting her Future Husband
In 1900, Laura’s family was living in Paris. She heard of the
faith of Bahá’u’lláh through May Ellis Bolles (later Maxwell) in
Paris in that year and accepted it right away.18 An early
supporter of women’s rights and world peace, Laura believed
fully in the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, the founder of the Bahá’í
Faith and accepted it right away. This proved to be, as the
Hand of the Cause of God, Dr. Ugo Giachery later wrote; “the
spark that ignited a fire never to be quenched.” He continued:
“Her ideals and aspirations found fulfillment in her activities
in the service of the Bahá’í Faith.”19 Soon after her acceptance
of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh she made her first pilgrimage to
Akka.
Upon her return to Paris, she became an active participant
in that city’s Bahá’í community and was instrumental in
establishing a significant Bahá’í presence in Washington, DC
later.20 Laura and her mother helped find housing for Mirza
Abul-Fazl, the celebrated Bahá’í scholar and teacher. Her
mother had heard about the Bahá’í Faith from Laura and had
become a Bahá’í.
She joined her daughter on one her visits to Akka. Upon
Alice’s return from Akka to Washington, she became active by
opening her home, Studio House, for meetings of the Bahá’ís.
In contrast to her previous gatherings, these were not the elite
of politics and society: they were people of all walks of life who
attended! Alice painted a portrait of Mirza Abu’l Fazl during
his stay; she also painted Ali Kuli Khan. However, as an artist
and given her social milieu, she may not have fully understood
the Faith.21 She did not view it as a conflict to be both an
Episcopalian and a Bahá’í. Alice’s biographer believes that “of
the two, the Bahai faith with its emphasis upon women’s
equality was appealing to her. Moreover, the faith’s Persian
roots appealed to her sense of the exotic.”22
The media of Washington were not very charitable when
learning of their change of religion. A gossip magazine, the
Washington Mirror wrote an article about Laura’s conversion
to the Bahá’í Faith and making fun of the “Mirza Abul Fazel
Gulapaygan’s”
“own
peculiar
way
of
preaching”
and
considered it the family’s “latest fad.”23

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Laura was not at all amused by this article, and she was
disdainful of the ignorance it revealed.24 But this was what she
had to tolerate. Yet none of this would weaken her devotion
and perseverance. She was a staunch and firm believer in her
faith from the beginning. Laura “with characteristic single-
mindedness” continued her hard work to further the cause of
her faith in Washington whenever she returned.25
Not long after that, Alice was yet again shocked to see an
issue of ‘The Washington Mirror’, making fun of Laura and
the Bahá’í Faith. The article had painted a very “exaggerated
scene of an incense-filled room where the audience was waiting
for the appearance of and contact with Bahá’u’lláh!” 26 It was
filled with incorrect descriptions. At the end it printed the
address of the Bahá’í meeting place. As a result, crowds
gathered to gawk and laugh at those who came to hear the
teachings of Abu’l Fazl.
Albert, Laura’s father, who cared about people’s opinion of
him and what was said about his family, decided to close the
house where the meetings were held. The outrage at his wife and
Laura was limitless and this came as a blow to his pride and to
his poor health. He, who had had a heart attack several years
earlier, suffered another heart attack. His doctors advised him
to go to a spa to rest and recuperate. He traveled to Europe
with his eldest daughter. But unfortunately he died in Monte
Carlo on December 5, 1902. Laura was twenty three years old at
the time. The family was saddened by his death, even though
Alice was perhaps relieved that it was finally over. For the first
time in “twenty-six years, Alice, Natalie, and Laura were
completely free of the man who had tried to rule their lives.”27
He was quite a rich man at the time. His ashes were buried at a
funeral service in his hometown of Dayton.
It was in the middle of the same year that Laura and her
mother moved to Studio House.
Meeting her Future Husband
Laura met Hippolyte Dreyfus in Paris in 1900. Like Laura, he
was introduced to the Bahá’í Faith the same year by May Bolles.
He was a Frenchman six years her senior. He had studied law
and had a doctoral degree and was practicing before the Paris
Court of Appeals.28 He became the first French citizen to
believe in Bahá’u’lláh. He visited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Akka in 1903.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
He gave up his legal career to devote himself to oriental studies,
comparative religion, plus Arabic and Persian, intending to
translate the Bahá’í Writings. His accomplishments are
numerous and well-documented.
Let us hear in Laura’s own words of their encounter:
The first meeting with Hippolyte Dreyfus that I can
recall was in 1900 in Paris on the threshold of May
Bolles’ apartment near l’École des Beaux Arts. He was
leaving; I was arriving to hear more of the Bábí
epilogue. Though I was away from France almost
constantly from 1901 to 1906, I knew that he had
become an outstanding Bahá’í and that his father and
mother, his sister and brother-in-law had all joined the
Cause.29
It was not an ordinary man that Laura had met. Shoghi
Effendi later spoke of him as a man who had “qualities of genial
and enlivening fellowship,” and was of “sound judgment and
distinctive ability.”30 He was an outstanding man.
Laura and Hippolyte collaborated on different projects and
took several trips at the request of the Master before they were
married years later.
Her Visits to the Holy Land and the Middle East in the Early
1900s
As soon as Laura heard about the Bahá’í revelation in Paris,
she began traveling to Akka, and stayed for months at a time
during several of those trips. During her first trip she was
twenty-one years old. In those days, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was confined
to the city of Akka and was permitted to receive only a few
visitors. Imagining a refined young western woman from a
wealthy family in the city of Akka of those years is difficult;
however, she had special attraction to living in those
surroundings.31
She traveled several times to the Holy Land. Her third trip
was in 1904. The next year, she traveled with her future husband
to the native land of Bahá’u’lláh at the request of the Master.
They were the first Western Bahá’ís to do so.32 They visited
Tabriz and Maku and Ishqabad in Russian Turkistan where the
first Bahá’í House of Worship had been built.33 Madame
Lachenay, a Bahá’í from France, was her travel companion.34
Further research may yield details of this trip to Persia. While

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
in Tehran, Laura sent a letter to her mother, stating that the
believers there were “wonderfully sincere and kind” and they
were among “the most important people” of Persia.35 What
inadequate information that I have found is from Fazil
Mazandarani’s recorded it in Zohuru’l-Hagh.36 Laura and
Hippolyte also met with Sadr-u Sodour while in Iran and sent a
report to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In response He revealed a Tablet for
Sadr-u’l Sodour. In that Tablet, He refers to Miss Barney.37
In order to meet the Bahá’ís, Laura also traveled to Egypt
and Turkey.38 In the autumn of the same year she returned to
Akka. This time Laura was accompanied by her mother.39 It
was after her departure from Akka on one of these trips that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá revealed a Tablet for Laura, giving her the tile of
‘Amatu’l-Baha,’ “Handmaiden of Baha.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
I will henceforth address thee the ‘Handmaiden of Bahá’
so that it may indicate that thou hast attained to a new
assignation.40
These visits to Akka became the center of Laura Barney’s life
and sources of stimulation and inspiration. She became
acquainted with the immediate family of the Master and met
Shoghi Effendi when he was a young child. Of her first meetings
she wrote: “Shoghi Effendi! How well I remember the first time
I saw him in the Holy Land. He was then a little boy of five or
six years of age, clothed in a brown Persian garment, chanting
a prayer in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence; his earnest eyes, his firm
mouth looked predestined.”41 Laura learned about ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s interest to find a tutor for His grandson to teach him
English literature. It was Laura who secured the services of a
cultured and refined English lady.42
Some Answered Questions
Details of her visits and travels to Akka, between 1904 and
1906, require further research and are of great significance.
This period described by Shoghi Effendi as “the most troublous
and dramatic of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry. He was still as a
prisoner of the Turkish government.43
As Hassan Balyuzi stated:
It is of particular interest to know the details of Laura
Clifford Barney’s repeated and extended visits to the

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Holy Land, because it was during those months,
stretched over several years, that a book unique in the
entire range of the Writings of the Founders of the
Faith took shape. The book was Some Answered
Questions. Questions came from Laura Barney and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá answered them.44
This being, Laura Barney’s most outstanding achievement
which “immortalized her name the [Bahá’í] world over.”45
A summary of the accounts of those years will be given.
These are based on the memoirs of Dr. Youness Afroukhteh. He
was the secretary and translator to the Master who rendered
Laura Barney’s questions from English into Persian and
converted the Master’s answers from Persian to English.
Dr. Youness Khan recorded:
In the heat and confusion of Akka, she [Laura Barney]
joyfully pursued her solitary task of collecting the
Writings of the Master. And as she meditated and
soared in the realms of spirit, she beheld the light of the
celestial flame in the Sinai of her heart and discovered
many divine realities.46
Youness Khan recalled that the Master would sit at the head
of the dinner table and Laura Barney sat on His left and Ethel
Rosenberg, an early English Bahá’í, who had accompanied
Laura, sat to her left. Often, several pilgrims and friends were
also present. He himself was sitting to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s right.47
In 1904 when Laura began posing her questions, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá was concerned about the approach of turmoil and
upheaval, therefore no permission was granted to anyone to
enter Akka. “Miss Barney hardly ever left the House of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá except on certain occasions to visit the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh, which was undertaken with great care and
caution.” 48
“Like the other Western friends,” Youness Khan wrote, “this
lady received her share of spiritual education at the dinner
table.” He continued: “the Master’s excessive workload only
allowed time allotted for such question and answer sessions at
the dinner table and then only at lunch time, at about 1 pm.”49

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

Hippolyte Dreyfus, Laura Barney and Mme Lachenay in Iran, c. 1906
Dr. Afroukhteh recorded that Laura Barney “was endowed
with an avid enthusiasm for acquiring spiritual qualities and
heavenly attributes” and that is why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá honoured her
with the title of Amatu’l-Baha.50 She had shown a keen
intelligence and inquisitive nature with insightful observations
from an early age. She was a shy woman: the “quintessence of
purity and piety.”51 And her reserved and quiet way had a
powerful impact on the followers of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
In his words she immersed “herself in the ocean of divine
knowledge, where she discovered many a precious pearls.”52 “In
her eagerness to grasp the realities of the teachings, she
considered the Prison City of Akka and the small house of the
Beloved of the world preferable to the most splendid mansions
of Western countries.”53
In the introduction of Some Answers Questions, Laura
Barney writes that one day the Master said ‘I have given to you
my tired moments,’ as He rose from the table after answering
her question. Sometimes weeks [would] pass before she would
get her instructions. She said: “But I could well be patient, for I
had always before me the greater lesson — the lesson of his
personal life.”54 She continues: “In these lessons He is the

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
teacher adapting Himself to his pupil, and not the orator or
poet.”55
She was greatly favored by the Master because of her
spirituality and He was content and happy with the process.
The fact that He had no time to eat or enjoy His meals was not
a problem. On one of these occasions, when the Master was
showing a little tiredness, He rose and happily remarked:
It is encouraging that after all this labour, at least she
understands the concepts. This is refreshing. What
would I have done if after all this effort she still failed
to comprehend the issues?56
As the table talks continued the Holy family realized the
significance of the precious gems coming to light, decided to
have a writer attend the meetings and take down in Persian
what was said.57 Miss Barney arranged for one of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s son-in-laws or for one of the Persians of His secretariat
of that period to make sure that the recording or the replies are
made in an accurate way.58 When Dr. Afroukhteh went on a
trip, one of the daughters of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá took the task of
translation.59
Laura Barney became quite fluent in Persian “from her
continual practice of it, as well as her study of the Holy
Writings. And because of her familiarity with Bahá’í
terminology and Persian expressions, it was easier for her than
some other western believers who visited the Master in those
years. Dr. Afroukhteh states that the discussions “were
concluded in an atmosphere of joy and amity.”60 He also writes
of numerous references and interesting episodes of the
Master’s manner of expression and utterance that enchanted
Miss Barney.61
Then the time of compiling came. In the first months when
she started compiling her book, the situation in Akka had eased
somewhat.62
The task of correcting and rereading by the Master and
translation and comparison were very difficult both for the
Master and Miss Barney, especially when the compilation time
arrived. Laura states that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá decided that they
should be recorded in Persian as well. She describes how the
Master corrected Mirza Munir’s first draft and then the
corrections were reviewed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and then approved
and singed each corrected subject.63 The Master read the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
transcriptions and altered as needed with His red pen, then
signed and stamped each one with His seal. Laura later wrote
that it was the same stamp that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá used for His
revealed Tablets.64 Dr. Afroukhteh explains that: “…the
Amatu’l-Baha, due to her strong faith and intense devotion,
was able to compile her book properly and this received
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s approval. Therefore, each word and line of that
book should be considered as the revealed Word.”65
The original Persian texts are in the Bahá’í archives of Haifa.
Laura Clifford Barney was able to complete the work and
present this great service to the Bahá’í world, a gift that will
cause her to be remembered eternally.”66
The book was first called the ‘table talks.’ She did not intend
to publish them at the time and were simply for her future
reference. She requested permission from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to
publish them in 1907 which was granted. She published them in
English and Persian in 1908.67 A copy of Mufavezat was sent to
Edward G. Browne the British Orientalist after its publication
in 1908.68 She also later collaborated with Hippolyte Dreyfus to
translate An-Nuru’l-Abha-fi-Mufawadat into French.69
This is how this work “unique in all religious literature” came
into existence.70 In that same year, she went yet on another
Pilgrimage to Akka.71 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was also freed that year
after the revolution in the Ottoman Empire and the overthrow
of the Sultan.
Now we examine the developments of her family. In 1909,
Laura’s mother met a popular bachelor, Christian Dominique
Hemmick, thirty years her junior in Washington. He was a few
years younger than her younger daughter, Laura! They became
engaged and planned to get married. Both daughters strongly
opposed it when they heard the news of their upcoming
marriage.
In the same years, Natalie, Laura’s sister had followed a
different path. She was living in Paris and was leading a very
unconventional life style, befriending prominent women
artists of the time. She was also holding salons for prominent
authors, artists, poets. Laura’s mother did not approve of her
life style, but then accepted it since she believed it had brought
happiness to her life.72 The two sisters were living completely
different lives.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
God’s Heroes
In 1909 Laura wrote the script of a play.73 This was Laura’s
defensive reaction to protect the Faith and the Bab.74 Let us see
why. A well-known Great Russian Playwright, Ms. Isabella
Grinveskaya had written a play on the life of the Báb which had
successful runs in St. Petersburg.75 A French playwright
intended to write a play about the Báb also and to have Sarah
Bernhardt play the role of Tahirih. Laura Barney was shocked by
the thought of what they would show on the Paris stage with the
life of the Báb that caused her to write a play called “God’s
Heroes: A Drama in Five Acts.” The protocol among artists
was that if someone was planning and working on a play, other
creative people would not use the same subject. The following
year, it was published in London.
Year 1911: Her Marriage to Hippolyte
Another significant year in her life was the year 1911.
First let us talk about her marriage. She had known
Hippolyte since 1900 and it was through their collaboration on
the translation of Some Answered Questions and their travels
together that they realized how well they could work together.
They discovered their common aspirations. Hippolyte was a
scholar and active member of the Bahá’í community in Paris.
He was an intellectual who tempered his brilliance with humor.
“He was also a gentle and compassionate man possessed of
infinite patience when it came to Laura.”76
Her mother suggested a double wedding ceremony for herself
and for Laura! Laura, in a gesture of harmony agreed. Laura
and Hippolyte had a joint civil ceremony with Laura’s mother
on April 15, 1911. Laura was 32 years old at the time.77 They
adopted the last name of Dreyfus-Barney. Laura and Hippolyte
traveled to his summer house called ‘Daru’l-Salam’ on Mont
Pelerin and Montreau both in Switzerland for their
honeymoon.
Their life, both before and after their marriage, was filled
with partnership and untiring activities and travels. Her Bahá’í
activities intensified after this union. It was after her marriage
that for the first time she seemed almost relaxed and
untroubled.78

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Accompanying the Master in Europe
The other significant event of that year was that of Mr. and
Mrs. Dreyfus-Barney joining ‘Abdu’l-Bahá during His first
visits to Europe. Laura wrote: “…when the Master visited
Europe I again gained admittance to His presence.”79
They were in the presence the Master to London, Paris and
Switzerland. Juliet Thompson has recorded her memories of
those days with several references to Laura and her husband.80
She wrote that Laura and Hippolyte were confidents of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The Dreyfus-Barneys were present with the Master at Hotel
du Parc in Thonon, France and Hotel de la Paix in Geneva.81
Juliet Thompson remembers that in Geneva the Master was
either with Laura and Hippolyte in her room or they were in
His “in the most charming informality.”82
In a story, she writes:
…we did the most amazing thing: the Master, Laura,
Hippolyte, and I went for an automobile ride!
“Did you ever think, Juliet,” said the Master, laughing,
as we got into the car with Him, “that you and Laura
would be riding in an automobile with me in Europe?”
They drove to a country inn. Several children were selling
bunches of violets and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bought all of them. The
Master paid them but they held out their hands for more. Laura
did not want the Master to be bothered. “Don’t let them
impose!” cried Laura. The Master said: “Tell them, that they
have had their share.”83
They walked to a bridge where the Master was very excited
over the beauty of the forest and the bridge. When they
returned to the inn, the children again swarmed around Him
asking for more money. Laura firmly ordered them to leave
since she thought they were imposing. “He would give away
everything He has,” she whispered to Juliet. But the Master had
seen a child much younger than the others, a newcomer with a
very sensitive face, who was looking at Him. “But,” He said:
“to this little one I have not given.” He made sure that He has
given coins to all the children who were there. 84
During their drive, they stopped at a water-fall and the
Master left the car and walked towards it. Juliet said that tears

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
came to Laura’s eyes and mine as we watched that “rapt Face
delighting in some secret way in the beauty of the waterfall.”85
In September of that year, the Dreyfus-Barneys traveled from
Paris to London to assist the Master with translations during
His stay at Cadogan Gardens, the home of Lady Blomfield, an
early Irish believer who had visited the Master in the Holy Land.
They were among the scores of friends who arrived during His
stay.86 Lady Blomfield, wrote that: “Foremost amongst our
visitors were Monsieur and Madame Dreyfus-Barney, the
brilliant French scholar and his no less brilliant American wife,
who spoke Persian with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, translated for Him, and
were altogether helpful, courteous, an charming.”87
The Master’s visit to Paris began on Oct 3. Lady Blomfield
referring to the Dreyfus Barneys as the “Friends of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá” stated that they found an apartment for Him in the
French capital.88 His residence was a delightful and sunny
apartment at 4 Avenue de Camoens. The Dreyfus-Barneys were
again serving as interpreters for Him and for several other
people. The Master’s every word and exhortation was noted by
several people. And it is through their effort that His addresses
were later published in English under the title Talks By ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá Given in Paris, later know as Paris Talks.89 Laura assisted
with the translation from Persian to French and for subsequent
French publication of this book in Geneva.90
During His stay in Paris, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spent a good deal of
time at the Dreyfus-Barney home. On Oct. 25, the Master
recounts: “Yesterday evening when I came home from the house
of Monsieur Dreyfus I was very tired — yet I did not sleep, I lay
awake thinking. I said, O God, Here am I in Paris! What is
Paris and who am I? Never did I dream that from the darkness
of my prison I should ever be able to come to you, though when
they read me my sentence I did not believe in it.”91
These were some brief references to the Master’s visits to
Paris with only those where the Dreyfus-Barneys were present.
It does not report His triumphant trip to that city.
Year 1912: With ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s in the US
It was in 1912 that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá traveled to the United
States. Laura was in New York, New Jersey, and in
Washington, DC, her American home.92 On the Master’s first
visit, the Dreyfuses were not in Washington. But Laura’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
mother, now Mrs. Alice Barney-Hemmick, whom the Master
had met in 1905 in Akka, was living at Studio House with her
second husband. She was actively working for women’s
equality, a new interest of hers.93
Agnes Parsons, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s hostess in Washington, who
has left her diaries of those days, mentions Laura’s mother
several times. She records that in1912, the weekly Bahá’í Sunday
Schools were held at Studio House, and it was at this regular
meeting that ‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke.94 She also records that on
April 21, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá talked at an event, then drove for an
hour after the meeting before going to lunch at Mrs.
Hemmick’s.95 Again after a talk on April 23, the Master went
for a drive with Laura’s mother. The Turkish ambassador was
also in the car and was “much interested in the conversation.”96
Two days later, after a meeting the Master went out motoring
during the afternoon and met with people at Mrs. Hemmick’s
and Mme. Ali-Kuli Khan’s.97
It was on this Sunday of April 28, as noted at the outset,
that the carriage of this gentle noble man, that of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
stopped at Studio House to say goodbye to Laura’s mother,
but she was out! She, thus, did not have the bounty of receiving
the Master on His way to the railway station!98
The second visit of the Master to Washington was in May of
the same year. Laura in a letter wrote that she “had the honour
of attaining His presence” during this visit, as did her
husband.99 They went to the railway station to welcome the
Master. It was Laura’s car that took the guests over to Agnes
Parsons’ home for tea. 100
During this visit, ‘Abdul-Baha spent a large portion of His
time speaking to the believers. He also met with several people
of prominence. One afternoon He addressed a group of
women, and then visited a home for the poor which had been
established through the efforts of Mrs. Alice Barney Hemmick.
Laura was present at both events and had accompanied the
Master in the car afterwards. He had a ten o’clock dinner at her
mother’s home.101
After leaving the United States in December 1912, the Master
stopped in London. Dreyfus-Barneys were again present. It is
recorded that the closing remarks following a speech made by
the Master were made by Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney.102

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Year 1913: With ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris
‘Abdu’l-Bahá visited Paris a second time in January of 1913.
His home in Paris was an apartment in 30 rue St. Didier that
Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney had rented for Him.103
Laura and her husband were again present during this visit
and attended many of the significant gatherings. Dreyfus-
Barneys were among those who hosted meetings in Paris where
seekers and enquirers were welcome. On January 31, they hosted
such a gathering where the Master was present.104 On March 9th,
one of His talks had to be curtailed because Professor and Mrs.
Edward Browne had called. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá talked with Edward
Browne for more than an hour. “He was very tired that evening
and spoke of hastening to the Holy Land.”105 Hippolyte was
present at this meeting but Laura had to be excused and
accompanied Mrs. Browne.106 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá celebrated the
Festival of Naw-Ruz on March 21st. The same evening He
addressed the friends at a gathering at the home of the Dreyfus-
Barneys. The celebrations for the Anniversary of the
Declaration of the Báb were held on May 23rd again at the home
of Laura and Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney.107
A few days later, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá moved yet another time in
Paris. He was taken to a secluded hotel to rest. He was very
tired and needed to relax. The Dreyfus Barneys knew where He
was and knew that the meals at the hotel did not suit Him. They
arranged for food to be cooked at their home and delivered to
Him. But the Master asked them not to do this.108 Gatherings
were again organized after the Master gained some strength.
An important meeting took place at the home of Dreyfus-
Barneys when Consul Schwarz of Germany spoke.109
These were some of the references to the visits of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá where Laura and her husband were present.
The Years from 1913 to 1928
Towards the end of that year (November 1913), Laura and
Hippolyte arrived in Washington on the first leg of a planned a
visit to Indo-China and other regions of eastern Asia.110 They
left Washington in January of 1914.111 They asked Laura’s
mother to join them as far as San Francisco. Laura was hoping
the trip might provide an opportunity to find out if her
mother was still happy in her marriage. Laura continued to be
displeased with her mother’s re-marriage.112

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
By March, Laura and Hippolyte had reached San Francisco
and boarded their ship for Japan. They were going around the
world visiting several countries in response to the wishes of the
Master. They stayed in Japan for a short time.113 They had
planned to travel to Korea, China, India, Persia and France.114
When they arrived in China, rumors of war had followed them
from Japan to Korea. Laura recalled that when they were in
China ready to go on Yangzi River and to visit Yunnan, the
war broke out. They were forced to return to the United States
and then to Paris, arriving in France after two months of
waiting in New York. By the end of December, Hippolyte
assumed his military obligations as a member of the French
Army.115 During the war, Laura served with the American
Ambulance Corps as a night nurse in Paris.116 After the war,
Laura was subsequently made a Chevalier of the French Legion
of Honor, the highest French decoration created by Napoleon,
for her work among the wounded.117
It was after the World War II that Laura Dreyfus Barney
placed a great importance on the League of Nations and as a
result became the representative of the International Council
of Women in that body and played an important role in
cultural exchange.118 Laura was the co-founder of the first
children’s hospital in Avignon and worked in a hospital with
war refugees in several different departments.119 She was also
engaged in re-education of the mentally and physically
handicapped at the Military Hospital in Marseilles.120
The Dreyfus-Barneys’ next visit with the Master was in 1918.
They were the first pilgrims to arrive from the West after the
war.121
Her mother’s sagas continued. In 1919 a rift developed
between Alice’s mother and her second husband. Laura heard of
her mother’s serious marital problems, and with her sister
Natalie, tried to give her advice as to how to dissociate herself
from him. She was divorced in 1920.122
It was in the same year that Shoghi Effendi visited the
Dreyfus-Barneys in Paris. Madame Barney’s affection for
Shoghi Effendi had grown into “an ever-deepening sense of
admiration and respect.”123 It was she who introduced him to
an American Bahá’í artist, Mr. Edwin Scott and his wife, who
were living in Paris and whose studio ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had visited
in1911. Shoghi Effendi met them on one of this stops on the
way to Oxford. This visit triggered a new interest in Shoghi

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Effendi: he became captivated by the art world. His interests in
architecture, sculpture and paintings opened up a vast field of
knowledge under the guided supervision and attention of this
renowned artist.124
Laura and Hippolyte’s last visit to Akka was in 1921 on their
way to the Far East. During this visit, Laura had plenty of time
with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to discuss social issues and she writes that
these matters “have come to pass and revolutionized the present
social order.”125 It was in Rangoon, Burma, that they heard of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing.126 There is no doubt that this was
shocking news to Laura and her husband had devoted their lives
to His Cause.
Not long after the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi
made the decision to call a number of capable and experienced
Bahá’ís to Haifa. He wanted to consult with them on the future
of the Bahá’í Faith. Laura and Hippolyte were among those
honored ones who went to share their grief in the company of
the friends.127 In a letter to her sister, she wrote that the
Master’s family was “filling the great vacancy left in their lives
by continual activity in carrying out His wishes.”128 Shoghi
Effendi discussed with these believers the needs to develop the
foundation of the Universal House of Justice.129
Laura and her husband traveled widely in those years to
spread the Bahá’í teachings. They joined with Martha Root and
George Townshend in giving a series of talks in Europe.130 In
1925, at the request of the Guardian they traveled to the United
States and attended Convention of the Bahá’ís of America at
Green Acre Bahá’í School in the state of Maine.131
Madame Barney spent the next few years in service to
humanity and to her faith. She was a true pioneer in these fields
of activities.132 She formed, under “the aegis of the League of
Nations, the Liaison Committee of Major International
Organizations to promote better understanding between
peoples and classes, and became a permanent member of the
committee as well as its liaison officer.”133 She was the only
woman appointed by the League Council to sit on the Sub-
Committee of Experts on Education, a post which she held for
many years, beginning in 1926.134

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Third Period (1928-1974)
Her life after the passing of her husband
The first event was the passing of her beloved husband.
Hippolyte, Laura’s life partner, whose ‘distinctive and
inestimable services’, according to Shoghi Effendi, achieved
for him ‘a standing which few have as yet to be attained’ died
towards the end of 1928 after a slow and painful illness.135 The
Guardian, who knew them both intimately, sent letters of
condolence to Laura.136 In a letter dated Dec. 21, he wrote: “I
can confidently assert, among the Bahá’ís of the East and the
West, combined to the extent that he did the qualities of genial
and enlivening fellowship, of intimate acquaintance with the
manifold aspects of the Cause, of sound judgment and
distinctive ability, of close familiarity with the problems and
condition of the world — all of which made him such a lovable,
esteemed and useful collaborator and friend.”137
This loss caused her overwhelming sadness and sorrow; Laura
had lost the closest person in her life. They had a rich life
together. She was not yet fifty years old when she became a
widow. After his death, she tried to overcome her loneliness by
intensifying her efforts on behalf of the Faith and the cause of
peace.138 Even though this devotion to promoting human
cooperation and bringing people together had started from the
day she became a Bahá’í, they intensified after the loss of her
husband.139
Three years later, she lost her mother. Her mother passed
away a month after presenting her ballet, ‘The Shepherd of
Shiraz’ at the Hollywood Bowl, a prestigious and important
outdoor amphitheater in Los Angeles!140 Thus Laura lost the last
person to whom she was truly close, the person she had loved
and admired throughout her life.141

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

Laura Dreyfus Barney
After 1928: Her Humanitarian Activities
Despite her deep sorrow, she continued her activities. The
same year, she organized, under the auspices of the
International Institute of Educational Cinematography of the
League of Nations, the first congress for women, held in Rome

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
in 1934.142 She also became a member of the Advisory
Committee of the League of Nations on Teaching; she was also
a
member
of
the
French
Committee
on
Intellectual
Cooperation.143
It was in 1937 that Madame Barney was promoted to Officer
of the French Legion of Honor; she became a Chevalier.144 Later
she became a member of its Board and an officer of the
American Society of the French Legion of Honor. She was also
a trustee of the President James Monroe Foundation in
Fredericksburg, VA.145
As American citizens, Laura and her sister were forced to
leave Paris at the outbreak of the Second World War. Laura
returned to Washington. It was during that time that she
represented the National Council of Women of the United
States on its Coordinating Committee for Better Racial
Understanding, and served on several other boards. She also
established a portraiture prize in her mother’s name for the
Society of Washington Artists’ annual exhibition and arranged
several retrospectives of her mother’s work. The first was held
in 1941 and attended by First lady Eleanor Roosevelt, who had
visited Studio House in 1913.146 During World War II, Laura
Dreyfus-Barney was a delegate of the French National
Committee on Women to the Commission on Racial
Affairs.147
At the request of the Guardian, she attended the celebration
in Wilmette of the centenary of the birth of the Bahá’í Faith in
1944. As a brilliant speaker, she gave a moving address at this
event.148
Upon her return to Paris, at the close of the war, Madame
Barney found that some of her belongings were taken by the
German secret police.149 The most valuable of all: her memoirs
and her notes from her trips!150 She had many priceless notes
which recounted her personal witnessing of the Bahá’í history.
She had wished to compile and send it to Shoghi Effendi before
publication and distribution but that did not prove
possible!151 She remained very active in her Bahá’í life in Paris,
active by guiding and meeting with the prominent people of the
Bahá’í Faith.152 She attended the opening of the first Hazirat’ul
Quds in Paris on rue de la Pompe, in 1955.153
Laura Dreyfus-Barney was a widow for the majority of her
life. She had no children. According to someone who knew her
in those years, her life would have evolved differently had her

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
husband lived longer. It must have been difficult for her in
Paris after the passing of her husband with no one close except
an infamous sister.154 She lived near her sister, but Natalie
proved to be more burden than help. Toward the end of their
lives, communication between them was mainly through letters
and messages carried by common friends.155 The memories of
their mother and discussion of their finances, which was not
easy for them, seemed to be their only emotional links.
In 1960, the sisters donated Barney Studio House to the
Smithsonian Institution in memory of their mother to be used
as an intimate venue for arts and cultural programs. Laura and
Natalie also donated the paintings of their mother to that
Institution’s National Museum of American Art. Natalie died
in Paris in 1972.
During last few years of her life Madame Barney stayed close
to home. Friends visited her occasionally and she lived with the
memories of her rich and fruitful live. Although her body was
handicapped by rheumatism and a childhood physical
handicap, her mind was as alert and brilliant as ever.156 Her
beautiful earthly life came to an end on 18 August 1974. She
was 94 years old. She was buried in the Passy Cemetery of
Paris.157 An appreciative message was sent by the Universal
House of Justice recognizing her outstanding achievement
during the Heroic Age of the Faith. Her death was reported in
the media both in Washington and Paris.158
Ugo Giachery, who knew Madame Laura Barney writes:
“Those who had the rare privilege of knowing her over a period
of many decades can testify that her undaunted zeal for the
objective of the brotherhood of man remained alive and
glowing to the very last day of her life on earth.”159
Closing Remarks
This brings to a close some highlights of this heroine of the
Bahá’í Faith. Her unforgettable services to the Cause and to
humanity were reviewed. Our time today gave us a glimpse of
the life and work of this zealous and devoted Bahá’í — a true
world citizen, lived a Bahá’í life both in her words and in her
deeds.
Laura Dreyfus-Barney moved easily between two worlds: that
of her wealthy and flamboyant family and that of her Bahá’í
life, in particular her spiritual and intellectual partnership with

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
her distinguished husband. When others would have left one
world for the other, she moved gracefully between the two. The
worlds of the rich and the poor, the sojourns at summer resorts
of Europe and America and that of her stays to the old prison
city of Akka!
“With her keen intelligence,” Dr. Giachery wrote, “logical
mind and investigating nature, she devoted her whole life, from
adolescence, to improving human relations, bringing together
people of the different races, classes and nations.”160 Her
services were “rendered joyfully with steadfastness and
perseverance.”161
As her primary service to the Cause, “she left as a memento
for future generations a significant book from the utterances
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”162 It was her greatest accomplishment and
“achieved immortal fame” for her.163 Shoghi Effendi refers to
Laura Barney’s work as an “imperishable service” to be
transmitted to “posterity.”164
Although Laura Dreyfus-Barney is perhaps best known
throughout the Bahá’í world for her compilation of Some
Answered Questions, her other services to the Faith are equally
glorious. Here are a few:
1. Helped with the purchase of the land and plans for a
suitable home for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and His family on 7
Haparsim Street;165
2. Involved in gathering notes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s utterances
in Paris which were later published as Paris Talks;
3. Secured the services of an English tutor who proved to be
a great asset in the education of Shoghi Effendi;
4. Helped fund education of some young Bahá’ís (i.e. Badii
Effendi Bushrui);166
5. Helped ladies of the Holy family with learning of the
English language;167
6. Among the first Western Bahá’ís to visit the cradle of the
Faith;
7. Consulted by Shoghi Effendi after the passing of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá;
8. Abiding devotion to the family of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá;168

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
9. Assisted her husband in many of his translations of the
Writings;169
10. Translations of many of the Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
from Persian into English;170
11. Author
or
co-author
of
books,
articles
and
monographs;171
12. Establishing a scholarship for a Bahá’í student in the
name of her husband.172
Baha’ullah writes: “The names of handmaidens who are
devoted to God are written and set down by the Pen of the
Most high in the Crimson Book.”173 It rests with the historians
of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh to bring to the fore the
accomplishments of those like Laura Dreyfus Barney.
Laura Dreyfus Barney, this Handmaiden of Baha, deserves
honor in the annals of the history. Her services merit increased
study and recognition that of a woman who broke down many
barriers on two continents. The author is aware only of one
event in the United States when she was honored by the Bahá’í
community. That was the centennial celebration of the
International Council of Women; Laura was honored at a
luncheon at Studio House on 26 June 1988.174
Let us close by reading from a Tablet, among the many,
written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, to Laura Barney:
To the honored & attracted [Handmaiden] servant of
God
Miss Barney (Upon her be BehaUllah El-Abha!)
Washington
He is God!
O thou dear Servant of God!
If thou knowest how far thy confirmation, Abdu’l-
Beha asks for help and assistance from the Kingdom of
Abha, thou wilt undoubtedly put forth feathers &
stretch wings by the dint of joy and happiness, & soar
up to the Apex of exultation and felicity! I beg of the
True One that thou mayst at every instant, witness the
ray of a new Favor & be strengthen by a successive
Confirmation. O thou dear servant of Beha! I will

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
henceforth address thee the ‘[Handmaiden] Servant of
Beha’, so that it may indicate that thou hast attained
to a new assignation. This title is a crown of
munificence upon thy head, the gems and pearls of
which crown will scintillate forevermore! Consider the
succeeding ages, & thou wilt know what a gift is this.
O thou [Handmaiden] Servant of Beha! Have joy and
happiness and be in spiritual cheerfulness, & arise in
such manner in the Cause, that thou mayst move the
territory of America! They services are accepted and
approved in the Threshold of the True One. Thou art
indeed devoted (in service)!
Then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá continued in His own handwriting:
O thou [Handmaiden] servant of Beha! The Power of
the Holy Spirit is confirmatory: Be thou assured! At
every moment, I seek heavenly Bounties, in the world of
Spirit, in thy behalf, Turn thy face into the Kingdom
of God at early dawns, & thou wilt find Abdul’Beha thy
companion.175

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Afroukhteh, Youness. Memories of Nine Years in Akka. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2005.
Alice Pike Barney: Pastel Portraits from Studio House. Smithsonian
Institution Press, Washington, DC: 1986.
Balyuzi, Hassan M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: The Center of the Covenant of
Bahá’u’lláh. London: George Ronald, 1971.
Beede, Alice R. “A Glimpse of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris”, in Star of the West,
Vol. II, No. 18, February 7, 1912, pp. 6, 7 and 12.
Blomfield, Lady. The Chosen Highway, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1967.
Cameron, Glen. A Basic Bahá’í Chronology. Oxford: George Ronald, 1996.
Clifford-Barney, Laura. Some Answered Questions. New Delhi: Pabhat
offset Press, 1973.
———. Daliran-i Rabbani (“Those Possessed of Divine Courage”). Trans.
`Azizu’llah Shirazi. Volume 54. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private
Printing: Tehran, c. 1977. Reprinted, H-Bahá’í: Lansing, Mi., 1999. On
Internet. The Translation of the book by her titled “God’s heroes!”
Dreyfus-Barney, Laura C. “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney”, article in The
Bahá’í World, Vol. III, p. 210.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

Effendi, Shoghi. “God Passes By”, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Company, 1950.
———. “Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney. An Appreciation,” in The Bahá’í
World 3, Wilmette, Ill., 1928-30, pp. 210-11, 214.
Fazel Mazandarani. Zurhur-l Hag (in Persian), Vol. 8, p. 78, Iran:
Moasseseye Melli Matbouate Amri, 131 Badii.
Garis, M.R. Martha Root: Linoness at the Threshold, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.
Giachery, U. R. “Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney, 1879-1974,” in the Bahá’í
World, vol. XVI, 1973-1976, pp. 535-538.
Giachery, U. R. La Pensee Bahá’íe, no. 56, June 1976, pp. 20-31.
King, Jean. L. Alice Pike Barney: Her Life and Art. Washington DC: The
Smithsonian Institution, 1994.
Hollinger, Richard, ed. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in America: Agnes Parsons’ Diary.
Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1996.
Mahmoudi, Houshangh. Cited in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (in Persian) Vol. I. March 9,
1913, p. 175 of the SAFAR NAMEH, Vol. II Paris: pp. 370-371.
Translated by Mona Khademi.
Muayyad, Habib. Khaterat-i Habib (in Persian), Germany: Bahá’í-Verlag,
vol. I, 1998.
Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. London: The Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1995, 12th Edition.
Rassekh, Shapour. “Laura Clifford Dreyfus-Barney,” in Encyclopedia
Iranica. Internet site www.iranica.com/articles/v7f5/v7f571.html, 2000.
Sims, Barbara R (compiled by). Japan Will Turn Ablaze Bahá’í Publishing
Trust of Japan, 1997.
Sobhani, Mohi Translated by. Mahmud’s Diary: The Diary of Mirza
Mahmud-i-Zarqani Chronicling ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey to America.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1998.
Thompson, Juliet. The Diary of Juliet Thompson. With an introduction by
Marzieh Gail. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1983.
Weinberg, Robert. “Ethel Rosenberg: The Life and Times of England’s
Outstanding Bahá’í Pioneer Worker.” Oxford: George Ronald, 1995.
Who’s Who in America, 37th edition 1972-1973, Vol. I, No. 548, p. 853.
Alice Pike Barney: Her Life and Arts, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC, 1994
OTHER REFERENCES
Chapman, Anita, Interview by Mona Khademi, May 20, 2008 in
Washington, DC. She lived in Paris in 1950-1955 and 1965-68 and was a
friend and a neighbor of Laura Dreyfus Barney.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

Vekiloglu, Fulya. E-mail dated May 12, 2008, Representative to the United
Nations, Office for the Advancement of Women, Bahá’í International
Community, Report to the United Nations and Public Information
Policy Committee, New York, 21 July 1988 (on celebration of the
centennial of the International Council of women in honor of the
memory of Laura Dreyfus-Barney.)
NOTES
1 Studio House is designated by the city of Washington as a historical site
and thus preserved from destruction.
2 Smithsonian Institution who was the owner of the House auctioned the
contents of the house and sold it in 2000. The current owner of Studio
House is the Embassy of Latvia.
3 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 178, p.189, p. 318.
4 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 299.
5 Smithsonian Institution, research and education center, at Washington,
D.C.; founded 1846 under the terms of the will of James Smithson of
London.
6 Giachery, La Penesee Bahá’íe, no. 56, p. 24 and Anita Chapman,
interview.
7 Ibid., p. 14.
8 Ibid., p. 74.
9 Ibid, p. 86.
10 Ibid, p. 103.
11 Ibid, p. 115.
12 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 116.
13 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 150.
14 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 116.
15 Ibid, p. 132.
16 Ibid, p. 111.
17 Manuscript of a play “From the Peace of the East to the War of the
West” by Laura Clifford Barney, from Smithsonian Archives.
18 Glen Cameron, A Basic Bahá’í Chronology, p. 141.
19 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 535.
20 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 185
21 Chapman, interview.
22 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 169.
23 Ibid, pp. 169-170.
24 Ibid, p. 170.
25 Ibid, p. 170.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

26 Ibid, p. 172.
27 Ibid, p. 135.
28 Rassekh, Encyclopedia Iranica.
29 From http://bahai-library.org/essays/barney.html referring to the Bahá’í
World article by Laura Clifford Dreyfus Barney, vol. III, p. 210.
30 http://bahai-library.org/essays/barney.html
31 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 315.
32 Cameron , A Basic Bahá’í Chronology, p. 162.
33 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, pp. 87-88.
34 Moojan Momen by e-mail. May 2008 and Star of the West (in Persian),
Vol. I, March-1910-1911, p.4.
35 Letter of Laura to Alice Barney, dated July 5, 1905, from the
Smithsonian Archives.
36 Fazel Mazandarani, Zurhur-l Hag (in Persian), Vol. 8, p. 78 Iran:
Moasseseye Melli Matbouate Amri, 131 Badii.
37 MASABIHE HEDAYAT (in Persian), Edited by Azizullah Soleimani, Iran:
Moassesseh Melli Matbouat Amri, 118 Bdii, Vol. V, pp. 32-32..
38 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 202.
39 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 81.
40 Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, from the Archives of the National Assembly
of France, translated by A. K. Khan, Oct. 29, 1903.
41 ‘Only a Word’, The Bahá’í World, vol. V, p. 667. Cited in The Bahá’í
World, vol. XVI, p. 536.
42 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 536.
43 Ibid, p. 536.
44 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 82.
45 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 536.
46 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 315.
47 Ibid, p. 316.
48 Ibid, p. 328.
49 Ibid., p. 315.
50 Ibid., p. 314.
51 Ibid., p. 150.
52 Ibid, pp. 314-5.
53 Ibid, p. 315.
54 Some Answered Questions, p. v.
55 Ibid, p. v.
56 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 316.
57 Ibid, p. 318

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

58 For additional commentary on this work, refer to Shoghi Effendi’s
statements in God Passes By, pp. 107, 260, 268, 305, 383.
59 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 328.
60 Ibid, p. 316.
61 Ibid, pp. 316-18.
62 Ibid. pp. 318-19.
63 Ibid, p. 328.
75 Le lezioni de San Giovanni d’acri, Casa Editrice Bahai, Roma, 1976, pp.
374-5. Closing remarks by Laura Dreyfus-Barney written in 1961,
translated by K. Mazlum.
65 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, pp. 341-344.
66 Ibid., p. 319.
67 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 101.
68 Letter or E.G. Brown handwritten dated, Sept. 2 1908 at the Archives of
Smithsonian.
69 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 536.
70 Ibid., p. 536.
71 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 82.
72 Ibid, p. 220.
73 In her play God’s Heroes, she mentions that received help from Prof.
E.G. Browne in translating some part of the quotes in one her chapters.
Cited in N.B.
74 Chapman, interview.
75 She was a playwright of the time, wrote a play about the Báb which had
two very successful runs in St. Petersburg. Grinevskaya became a
Bahá’í
and
later
met
with
Abdu’l-Baha
and
Shoghi
Effendi.
www.bahaindex.com/documents/tolstoy.pdf .
76 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 223.
77 Ibid, pp. 224-5.
78 Ibid, p. 223.
79 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 344.
80 Thompson, The Diary of Juliet Thompson, pp. 159-160
81 Ibid, 159.
82 Ibid, p. 167.
83 Ibid, p. 174.
84 Ibid, p. 175.
85 Ibid. p. 175.
86 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 130-1.
87 Blomfield, The Chosen Highway, p. 151.
88 Ibid, p. 179.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

89 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 104.
90 Blomfield, The Chosen Highway, pp. 180-181.
91 Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 30.
92 Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’ie, no. 56, pp. 27-28.
93 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, pp. 234-5.
94 Pasrons, Agnes Parsons’ Diary, p. 14.
95 Ibid. p. 16.
96 Agnes Parsons’ Diary, p. 35.
97 Ibid, p. 47.
98 Parsons, Agnes Parsons’ Diary, p. 58.
99 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 344.
100 Parsons, Agnes Parsons’ Diary, p. 61.
101 Ibid. p. 65.
102 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 148.
103 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 373.
104 Ibid., p. 376.
105 Ibid., p. 379.
106 Mahmoudi, Houshangh. Cited in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Vol. I. March 9, 1913:
from page 175 of the Safar Nameh (in Persian), Vol. II Paris: pp. 370-
371, translated by Mona Khademi.
107 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 394.
108 Ibid, p. 394.
109 Ibid, p. 395.
110 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 537.
111 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 236.
112 Chapman, interview.
113 Sims, Japan Will Turn Ablaze , p 5.
114 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 237.
115 Ibid, p. 241.
116 Who’s Who in America 1972-1973.
117 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 264. The Legion of Honor is created by
Napoleon Bonapart and is the highest award given by the French
Republic for outstanding service to France. It has different ranks:
Chevalier, Officer, Commander, Grand Officer, Grand Crosses.
118 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 537.
119 Ibid, p. 537 and Who’s Who in America 1972-1973.
120 Who’s Who in America 1972-1973.
121 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 433.
122 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 277.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

123 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI 16, p. 536.
124 Translated by the author from La Pensee Bahá’íe, no. 56, p. 27.
125 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 344.
126 Ibid, p. 344.
127 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 207.
128 Letter of Laura to Natalie Barney, her sister dated Feb. 27, 1911 from
Haifa; Smithsonian Archives, Washington, DC.
129 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 208-9.
130 Garis, M.R. Martha Root: Lioness of the Threshold, p. 256.
131 Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’íe, p. 27.
132 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI 16, p. 535.
133 Who’s Who in America 1972-1973.
134 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 537.
135 Weinberg, Ethel Rosenberg, Ft. 375 p. 269.
Giachery,
La
Pensee
Bahá’íe,
p.
and
on
bahai-
library.com/essays/barney.html
137 bahai-library.com/essays/barney.html
138 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 537.
139 Ibid, p. 537.
140 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 226.
141 Ibid, p. 229.
142 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 537.
143 Who’s Who in America 1972-1973.
144 Rassekh, Encyclopedia Iranica.
145 Who’s Who in America1972-1973.
146 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 301.
147 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 538.
148 Ibid, p. 537 and p. 535.
149 Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’íe, p. 24.
150 Chapman, interview and Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’íe, p. 24.
151 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 344.
152 Chapman, interview.
153 Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’íe, p. 27.
154 Chapman, interview.
155 Kling, Alice Pike Barney, p. 302.
156 Ibid, p. 302.
157 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 538.

A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney

158 Obituaries in The Washington Post, August 22, 1974; and “Star” dated
August 22, 1974 at Smithsonian Archives and in Le Monde cited in
Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’íe, p. 31.
159 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 535.
160 Ibid, 535.
161 Ibid., p. 535.
162 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 315.
163 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 535, from the Message of the Universal
of House Justice on her passing.
164 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 260.
165 The Bahá’í World, vol. XVI, p. 537.
166 Muayyad, KHATERAT HABIB, p. 60.
167 Afroukhteh, Memories of Nine Years in Akka, p. 315.
168 The Bahá’í World. vol. XVI, p. 537.
169 Giachery, La Pensee Bahá’íe, p.26.
170 Tablets of ‘Abdul-Baha Abbas, p. 19.
171 Who’s Who in America 1972-1973.
172 Letter of Shoghi Effendi to Laura-Dreyfus-Barney, dated march 12, 1929
from bahai-library.com/essays/barney.html
173 Bahá’u’lláh. From a Tablet translated from the Persian, in compilation,
vol. 2, p. 358, cited in Weinberger, Ethel Rosenberg, p. 85.
174 E-mail dated May 12, 2008, from Fulya Vekiloglu, representative to the
United Nations Office for the Advancement of Women, Bahá’í
International Community.
175 Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Miss Barney. Translated by A. K. Khan.
Dated Oct. 29, 1903. Original pdf file from National Spiritual Assembly
of France. [Editor’s note: the alternate spellings in this version of the
tablet come from the original translation and have been preserved here
in their unaltered form.]

In the Heart of All That Is
The “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction
The title of this paper is taken from a prayer of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, which emphasizes the role of the heart as the center of the
universe when He talks about the hidden truths that are written
and embedded in the heart of all that is.1 (CC I 251)2 This
statement about the heart of all that is, is an echo to the Words
of Bahá’u’lláh about the heart of the world:
The Word of God hath set the heart of the world afire;
how regrettable if ye fail to be enkindled with its flame!
(GWB 316)
It needs to be asked what role the heart plays, not only in the
individual human, but also in humanity as a whole and in the
world as a whole.
The topic of this paper is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s answer to a
question of a physician regarding the sympathetic nervous
system (which today is generally called the Autonomic Nervous
System, hereafter referred to as ANS) of the human organism.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
The powers of the sympathetic nerve are neither entirely
physical nor spiritual, but are between the two
(systems). The nerve is connected with both. Its
phenomena shall be perfect when its spiritual and
physical relations are normal.
When the material world and the divine world are well
co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the
aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection
shall take place. Then shall this power produce a perfect
manifestation. Physical and spiritual diseases will then
receive absolute healing.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
The exposition is brief. Ponder and thou shalt
understand the meaning. Although, on account of lack
of time, the answer is short, by close reflection it shall
be made long. (TAB 308)3
The present paper attempts to “ponder” the question of the
sympathetic nervous system as well as the subject matter of the
heart. The heart’s nervous system will be presented, as it has
been developed in the new science of neurocardiology.
In the above referenced text ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the
“physical” and the “spiritual” are “connected by the
sympathetic nervous system” and that this “co-relation”
affects the heart, which becomes “heavenly” and its “aspiration
grows pure and divine.” This “perfect connection” of the
spiritual and the physical in the heart “produces a perfect
manifestation” and will lead to “absolute healing.” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá promises that this short description will “be made long”
by “close reflection.”
In this paper the understanding of the hart as a metaphor is
look at and the difference and correspondence between the
heart as a biological feature in the material sense and heart as a
symbolic feature as is used in poesy, folklore and even theology
will be explored. Furthermore, the close reflection will be based
on another source of knowledge, which is the new findings of
Quantum Mechanics and the philosophical and spiritual
conclusions which have been drawn from this new branch of
physics. The meaning attributed to the heart in the Bahá’í
Writings will be explored to assure that the interpretation of
this text is following the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
In the following paper “In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart,”
another, equally important question is discussed; the
understanding of the physiology of the heart and of its nervous
system, “the little brain of the heart.” Can the recent
discoveries of neurocardiology help us to understand what the
Bahá’í Writings say about the heart? What are the physical
functions of the heart, which could be the corresponding
natural elements for the spiritual aspect of the heart? It is the
knowledge of God that is animating the human heart as
Bahá’u’lláh said: The spirit that animateth the human heart is
the knowledge of God. (GWB 290)
The findings of these papers will be tentative for not all
aspects of this issue can be properly explored at this time. It is
hoped that further studies of the function of the heart will shed

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
new light on this issue and will deepen the understanding, not
only of the human heart, but also of what the Bahá’í Writings
call “the heart of all that is,” and the “heart of the world,” which
is the heart of the universe, also described as “the city of the
heart.” This heart is the goal of human development and
provides the mystical entry in to the attainment of the
Manifestations of God. In the Bible this is the “Word” that
was “in the beginning” with God4. It is furthermore the cosmic
Christ or the point Omega5, towards which the whole evolution
of humanity moves. The Manifestations, Who are described as
the “Alpha and Omega” in the Bible are called the “The First”
and “The Last”, the “True One” and the “Beloved One” of the
worlds in Bahá’í Scripture.
Anticipating later explanations, it could be stated here that
the heart functions as the physical center of unity of the
spiritual and physical aspect of humans and humanity, i.e., the
physical and spiritual center of the individual human being, as
well as the center of humanity and the world as a whole. An
excursion into some philosophical conclusion drawn from
findings of quantum mechanics will round the picture and add
heuristic features to this elaboration, which hopefully will
entice future studies in this area in the field of theology,
philosophy and biophysical sciences.
When God’s “beloved ones” acquire the “knowledge and the
sciences and the arts”, for which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá encourages us to
pray,6 God will “make them to hear the hidden truths that are
written and embedded in the heart of all that is.” This will
introduce them into the “city of the heart,” or as Bahá’u’lláh
writes at the closure of the Seven Valleys: “this station is the
first gate of the heart’s citadel, that is, man’s first entrance to
the city of the heart.” (SVFV 41)
The Heart in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
To study the concept “heart” in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
is not an easy task. It is made difficult mostly because it is not
easy to describe what heart means in the languages of different
cultures and how this concept is used in the Writings.
The Bahá’í Writings are understood in this paper according
to the Báb’s explanation about the “Four Modes of
Revelation.” These modes are described at length in a book
written by Nader Saiedi,7 and will be here summarized:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
1. VERSES (áyát): “The mode of divine verses is the direct
revelation of God, uttered in the voice of God as the
speaker addressing His creation (an affirmation of ‘I am
God’). This mode employs the language of divinity,
ascendance and lordship …” (Saiedi p. 42)
2. PRAYERS AND SUPPLICATIONS (munáját, ad’íyih);
“The mode of prayers and supplications is the reverse of
the mode of divine verses. Here the language of revelation
is uttered in the voice of the Prophet, but now speaking
in the station of the creation, addressing the Creator
with an attitude of servitude and effacement (an
affirmation of ‘Thou art God’). This mode emphasizes
the poverty and powerlessness of the creatures before
their Creator… The discourse of prayer is fundamentally
an expression of servitude and love — the love of the
created being for God…” (Saiedi p. 42)
3. COMMENTARIES AND SERMONS (tafásír, khutáb);
“Commentaries and sermons are uttered in the voice of
the Revelator speaking to human beings about God and
His words (an affirmation of ‘He is God’). The
commentaries are interpretative works that aim to
explain, in expository form, the true meanings of the
divine verses… The sermons praise and describe
transcendental spiritual realities that are the cosmic
manifestations of the Word. Often the Báb begins a
work with a brief or lengthy sermon that endeavors to
connect the reader’s heart and consciousness to the
divine verities….” (Saiedi, p.43)
4. RATIONAL, EDUCATIONAL, AND PHILOSOPHICAL
DISCOURSE
(shu’ún-i-’ilníyyig
va
hikamíyyih)
“…rational, educational, and philosophical discourse — is
again spoken in the voice of the Redeemer addressing
human beings, but this time using rational arguments to
demonstrate the truth of the Word of God and explain
the message expressed in the prayers (an affirmation of
‘He is God Who is’). The fundamental function of this
mode is to analyze the phenomenal world and to link it to
the transcendental realm… The purpose of this mode is to
show the signs of the unseen within the visible realm, and
to prove the world of divinity and dominion through its
manifestations in the earthly world… This mode
frequently employs logical argumentation and analysis…”
(Saiedi p.43-44)

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
It obvious that the majority of the quotes from the Bahá’í
Writings used in this paper are related to the fourth mode, the
rational, educational and philosophical discourse, especially as
this discourse relates to the heart. Certain passages from the
Verses and from Prayers and Supplications will be used also,
especially if they shed light on the issues at hand.
There is one contention — that the concept of Heart is an
analogy, taken from the fact that somehow the heart, described
here as a muscle, seems to be central to the human body, so
everything that is central to a human person is called heart.8
As the muscle which is the original source of these
metaphorical applications brings life to the whole
body, so heart refers to the core-force of personality at
the center of its life. Because we do not want to limit
the self with the name of intellect alone, or will alone,
or feeling alone, nor to see these as separate, we have
invented the sensibly opaque name of heart for the
identifying core of our agency.
In this monograph the centrality of the heart is used as a
metaphor, a figure of speech related to the area of the physical
body as explained in medical science, which concept then is
extended, or transferred into other areas of understanding. All
of this is done with the assumed understanding that the heart is
nothing else than a muscle, a medical machine, pumping blood
throughout the body and that this function of the heart is
regulated by the external nervous system, the autonomous and
the central nervous system.
With this metaphorical understanding the attempt is made
to explain all that is said in poetry, tradition and folklore
about the heart. The religious statements about the heart are
placed into a similar category. When we read the many
statements of the Bible and in the Bahá’í Scripture, which
include the heart, we can do the same, and read them as simple
metaphors. This approach allows us to disregard the physical
heart and its meaning, and develop an idea about the heart as a
metaphorical and spiritual concept, which is not really related
very much to anything in the body.
While this is possible, it appears not to be congruous with
what Bahá’u’lláh means when He speaks in many ways about the
heart, when He speaks about the City or Citadel of the heart
and gives the heart functions that certainly not only surpass
widely any possible relation to the medical blood pump, but

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
also goes far and beyond anything that is said in the tradition
about the heart as a metaphorical concept.
Bahá’u’lláh for example speaks of the “eye of thine heart” (KI
90), or He mentions a person who has “unstopped the ear of his
inmost heart” (SLH 86), implying that the heart has an ability
that can somehow be compared to the senses of hearing and
seeing. He states that hearts can be affected by touch telling us
that “hearts have been sorely shaken” (PM 12). Bahá’u’lláh speaks
of a “wise and understanding heart” (ESW 65). Bahá’u’lláh places
the function of memory into the heart as well, when He lets us
pray: “to make my heart to be a receptacle of Thy love and of
remembrance” (PM 56). He further instructs us to think,
meditate or ponder in our heart, saying “Ponder this in thine
heart” (ESW 74).
The importance of the “Heart” in the Báb’s Writings cannot
be overlooked either, as He stated:
Verily, all the letters of this súrih are but one single
letter. All variations in the words and meanings therein
revert to a single point. That point is, verily, the
station of the heart and the sanctuary of unity.9
To quote Saiedi:
To interpret something is to uncover its true meaning.
The text that is to be interpreted consists of signs,
specifically words, appearing as combinations of
letters of the alphabet. The supreme task of
interpretation, the Báb explains in this passage, is to
elevate these alphabetical signs (which constitute the
text) to the highest level of their own reality, the station
at which they reveal their true essential nature, or
“heart.” The concept of “heart” ({fu’ad}) is one of the
most important principles in the writings of the Báb.
The station of the heart is the highest stage of a created
being’s existential reality. It is the reflection of divine
revelation itself within the inmost reality of things.
(Saiedi, p. 50)
The task of true hermeneutics is to cause a
fundamental transformation in the phenomenal realm:
to elevate the phenomena to the station of the heart is
to uncover the signs of divine revelation that are
enshrined within the reality of those phenomena, and
to connect that which is motionless to its true inner

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
reality
of
vibrant
spiritual
motion.
This
transformation
is
accomplished
within
the
consciousness of the interpreter. (Saiedi, p. 51)
For the Báb the heart is the central place where the belief in
God is centered and the heart encompassed the “expanse of
heaven and earth.” When God cheers the heart of the believer
this cheerfulness will overflow into the spirit, the soul and the
body of the faithful.
Indeed the hearts of them that truly believe in Him
Whom God shall make manifest are vaster than the
expanse of heaven and earth and whatever is between
them. God hath left no hindrance in their hearts, were
it but the size of a mustard seed. He will cheer their
hearts, their spirits, their souls and their bodies and
their days of prosperity or adversity, through the
exaltation of the name of Him Who is the supreme
Testimony of God and the promotion of the Word of
Him Who is the Dayspring of the glory of their
Creator. (SWB 145)
In contrast to these rather specific references to the heart,
the Bible and the Qur’an talk frequently about the heart, but
mainly in the sense of the seat of feelings, or as the place of
contact with God, like in Galatians 4:6 “And because ye are
sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts,
crying, Abba, Father.”
Similar to that Pauline statement, Bahá’u’lláh attributes to
the heart an exceedingly important capacity; it is the Seat of
God’s Revelation in man as He said in many places:
He hath chosen out of the whole world the hearts of His
servants, and made them each a seat for the revelation
of His glory. (GWB 296)
The one true God, exalted be His glory, hath ever
regarded, and will continue to regard, the hearts of
men as His own, His exclusive possession. (GWB 206)
27. O SON OF DUST!
All that is in heaven and earth I have ordained for thee,
except the human heart, which I have made the
habitation of My beauty and glory. (PHW 27)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
The human heart is therefore the special and exceptional
place for the Revelation of God, it is the exclusive possession
of the one true God and it is the habitation of God’s beauty
and glory. One can only wonder what it is about the human
heart that it can function in these exalted ways and become
such an exceptional and unique place for the Revelation of the
Glory of God and the Mystery of God’s approach to man. We
will in the course of this paper find some answers to this
question, which answers need to be developed to a deeper and
improved understanding in the future.
Again, all of this can be understood simply as a metaphor,
but it raises the question if there is more to say about the heart
then it being a medical and mechanical blood pump. The
metaphorical understanding has consequences, especially if the
figure of speech is not related to any real property of the heart,
but only to a tradition and an unscientific concept, from a
time when the body was just not understood in its medical
functioning. Or we could say the human body at previous
times was not seen as a biological machine, which is its only
function, according to the prevalent medical understanding.
This is a question which needs to be raised for any metaphor.
Is there something that allows us to make this comparison and
create a metaphor; is there an intrinsic reason for this figure of
speech or is it purely a convention? Or is it just an accepted
allegory, which has no reality except in the mind and culture of
people using it? We must ask if the material world from which
the metaphor is taken has any real connection to the spiritual
world, which is described in these metaphors. The answer given
in this paper is positive; there is an internal connection
between spirit and matter, between soul and body, between
mind and brain and between the heart as a physical organ and
the heart as the seat of God’s Revelation.
There is one issue that makes us wonder if that is all that can
be said about the heart and how this word is used in different
cultures, in poetry in folklore and even in common
understanding. Since almost all languages use this figure of
speech in a similar way, we have to assume that there is in most
cultures a general human tradition that points to the heart in
explaining all these properties of man. From there the question
arises, is there more to it, than an external and cultural
tradition? In other words, is there a reality underneath and
embedded in the human organism that makes us think so?
Medical science and biology certainly have not given an answer

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
to this question so far. It describes the heart simply as “a
muscular organ responsible for pumping blood through the
blood vessels by repeated, rhythmic contractions.”10
Another question needs to be considered here, and it is
probably an even more difficult question, because there is not
much in that tradition about the heart, which will help us in
this case. I will make a comparison that could help. We have the
same problem with the heart as we have with the brain. We used
many different words which are related to the brain. For
example we use mind, reason, intellect, we use consciousness,
understanding, knowledge and even words like thinking,
judging, willing and many other things that supposedly happen
in the brain. And there are even people, especially scientists,
who would say that all of those words and concepts mean
nothing else than the electromagnetic and chemical processes
that happen in the brain, or, more specifically in the synapses
of the brain.
Nevertheless, the assumption is generally made that there is a
difference between the brain and the mind. Then one might
identify the physiology of the brain and claim that the mind is
using the brain in order to function. If we assume that this
distinction is correct then we have to follow with the
assumption that what is happening in the mind has a reflection
in the brain. In other words, when the mind is functioning
something does happen in the brain, but what’s happening in
the brain does not fully explain what’s happening in the mind.
It seems one can say that the brain is used by the mind as an
instrument, which allows it to become materialized and be
expressed in physical words or actions. That naturally assumes
that the spiritual reality of the mind and the material realities
of the physical world are connected somehow in the brain. And
that is very similar to what Bahá’u’lláh has said, not only about
the mind, but also about the spirit, the soul, and the powers of
the senses:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and
hearing are but one single reality which hath manifold
expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments.
As thou dost observe, man’s power to comprehend,
move, speak, hear, and see all derive from this sign of
his Lord within him. It is single in its essence, yet
manifold through the diversity of its instruments.
This, verily, is a certain truth. (SLH 154)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Following this word we can say that spirit, mind, soul, and
even the power of the senses must be differentiated from the
physical and organic instruments they use. This is an
interesting and rather new idea and it brings us right into the
area of science, especially physical science, where many
instruments are used to improve the understanding of reality.
For example, physics uses the Geiger counter as an instrument
to learn about subatomic particles and making conclusions
about the reality of physical nature that were unexpected and
revolutionary and even developing a new science called
quantum mechanics.
In a letter to a person deprived of physical sight ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá has applied the meaning of the statement of Bahá’u’lláh
that the sense organs are only the instruments of the spirit:
O thou possessor of a seeing heart! Although,
materially speaking, thou art deprived of physical
sight, yet, praise be to God, spiritual insight is thine.
Thy heart seeth and thy spirit heareth. Bodily sight is
subject to a thousand maladies and assuredly will
ultimately be lost. Thus no importance should be
attached to it. But the sight of the heart is illumined. It
discerneth and discovereth the divine Kingdom. It is
everlasting and eternal. Praise God, therefore, that the
sight of thy heart is illumined, and the hearing of thy
mind responsive. (SWA 37)
The blind man’s heart sees, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, and his
spirit hears, it sees and hears, it discovers and discerns the
divine Kingdom. Here the instrument of the spirit, the sight, is
lost, nevertheless the person’s mind, the man’s spirit can see
and hear what is most important, because the sight of the heart
is illumined. The thought that the human spirit can be in
contact with the divine Kingdom, even if the senses are lost, is
certainly a comforting thought, when considering the fate of
children, dying early in life and the fate of all human beings
with limited perceptual and even intellectual capacity.
When considering the concept “heart” in all its different
uses, especially in its metaphorical uses, we have to be aware of
another fallacy of understanding. Ken Wilber11 has described
this Pre/trans fallacy applying it to the development of reason,
by saying: “since both, pre-rational states and trans-rational
states are, in their own ways, non-rational, they appear similar
or even identical to the untutored eye. And once ‘pre’ and

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
‘trans’ are confused, then one of two fallacies occurs.” Before
describing these fallacies, it needs to be noted that this is a
general principle of understanding evolution and it applies,
even if the specific development of the mind, as Wilber
describes it, is modified.
We all can agree with him about pre-rational states of
evolution, such as the magic and mythic stages in the
development of the thinking process of mankind. At the
present time, we can be described as mainly living in the
rational state, when reason and logic is prevalent in the
thinking world. Wilber calls these stages the formal operational
stage in the development of reason. He projects future stages
such as vision logic as the first of several trans-rational stages.
In the Viennese tradition12 of Integral Logic, what Wilber calls
vision logic could as well, and possibly better be described as
integral logic.
This way of thinking will be described below; here the two
possible consequences of the pre/trans fallacy will be described.
One or the other of them follows consistently when the
differentiation between pre-rational and trans-rational is not
seen.
1. “Higher trans-rational states are reduced to lower pre-
rational states. Genuine mystical or contemplative
experiences, for example, a-dualism are seen as a
regression or throwback to infantile states of narcissism,
oceanic, in-dissociation and even primitive autism. This
is, for example, precisely the route taken by Freud in The
Future of an Illusion.”
2. “On the other hand, if one is sympathetic with higher or
mystical states, but one still confuses pre and trans, then
one will elevate all pre-rational states to some sort of
trans-rational glory. … Jung and his followers, of course,
often take this route, and are forced to read a deeply
transpersonal and spiritual status into states that are
merely in-dissociated and undifferentiated and actually
lacking any sort of integration at all.”13
It is important to apply this distinction to all writings,
especially the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith. The expressions
about the heart are not to be fallaciously mistaken for mystic
or magic understanding; they are beyond these more primitive
understanding and are only explicable after the modern
distinction and separation of the human abilities have been

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
taken into account. Then, and only then, will the new insight
presented by Bahá’u’lláh really be understood and its far-
reaching meaning be appreciated.
Many people have mentioned that when they first became a
Bahá’í they understood the Writings in a poetic sense and
admired them on a symbolic level. Later, after thorough reading
and meditating on what they had read, they found deeper
meaning and developed a better sense of what the Writings
convey.
It is this writer’s opinion that we have to develop this
integral thinking in order to understand the Bahá’í Writings.
For example, Shoghi Effendi calls the Watchword of the Faith,
“Unity in Diversity.” This principle is a good an example of an
integral concept that should never be confused with a primitive
pre-logical way of fuzzy thinking, nor should it be assumed
that prior mythical or magic thinking could have had a similar
differentiated understanding of reality. On the other hand, the
magic understanding can function as an introduction and
preparation towards the higher and more differentiated
understanding we have now.
This is, one needs to say, a totally new way of thinking
about reality. Leo Gabriel has expressed this concept of the
Integral Whole (Integrale Ganzheit), when he wrote (translated
by this writer):
Talking about the Whole (Ganzheit) and Gestalt, as I
emphasized before, is a methodological concept, a new
way of thinking, a new way of perceiving reality, which
breaks with a long tradition. It is therefore, an
essential change in thinking and a true revolution,
which started with this century and which anticipates a
new epoch of the spirit. It is a “metanoia,” a change
for a new world vision and a new way of thinking.14
It is noteworthy to remember in this context of the
“Integrale Ganzheit” the statement of the Báb about the
difference between reason and the heart. Only the heart can
understand the Divine Unity and Transcendence, a view that
was not available to Leo Gabriel, who spoke about the new
epoch of the spirit and a new way of thinking, about 100 years
after the death of the Báb. The role of the heart in
understanding Unity and Transcendence of God was described
by Nader Saiedi in his book “Gate of the Heart” when he
translates the Báb’s statements (pp. 211-212):

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of
abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited
phenomena, which fail to guide humans unto the
summit of the delight of their heart.
That which is beyond these two extremes, which is the
Middle Path … can be comprehended by naught save the
heart. God hath created the heart to understand His
unity and transcendence and it is through the heart
that Divine Unity can be witnessed at the level of
action.
It appears to this writer that this new way of thinking,
which the thinking world is slowly recognizing, was expressed
in the Bahá’í Writings a century ago and is only now being
identified by philosophy and psychology. To follow this
process is the topic of these considerations. In order to
summarize what has been said before, it must be stated that the
Bahá’í Writings seem to provide the following understanding
of the function of the heart.
The human spirit is a single reality that expresses itself in the
different perceptual and executive organs of the human body,
such as eye, ear, touch, smell, and movement, speech and touch.
Furthermore, the same applies to the heart; it is as a human
organ the instrument of the spirit, and it has the functions of
the senses as well as of the brain. In other words, while life of
the mind expresses itself through brain and the senses, the heart
has the same function, except that we do not usually consider
this fact and use these function in a metaphorical sense only.
Yet, according to the Báb, mind or reason is confined to mere
limited phenomena, while the heart is created by God to
understand unity and transcendence which explains the new
understanding of reality as Leo Gabriel has pointed out above.
There are some statements of Bahá’u’lláh that can be
interpreted by assuming that there are two realities to the
human existence, the outward and the inmost aspect. When
Bahá’u’lláh talks about the heart of my heart, the spirit of my
spirit and even the tongue of my tongue, should we not assume
that He talks about different and yet connected realities, as
above about the unity of the spiritual aspect of man and the
variety of the instruments that express the human spirit in the
physical reality? The statement below certainly has many
meanings, but this interpretation might be one of them.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
O Lord! The tongue of my tongue and the heart of my
heart and the spirit of my spirit and my outward and
inmost beings bear witness to Thy unity and Thy
oneness, Thy power and Thine omnipotence, Thy
grandeur and Thy sovereignty, and attest Thy glory,
loftiness and authority. I testify that Thou art God
and that there is none other God besides Thee. (TB 114)
The Physical Heart as a Metaphor for the “Spiritual Heart”
Later, when considering the new science of neurocardiology
we will bring more light into this relationship. Additionally, we
will apply Quantum Mechanics to this relationship between the
spiritual and unified aspect of man and its instrumental and
physical aspect.
Following this idea throughout this paper, it will carry us
into different areas of understanding, such as the unity of the
world, the relation between matter and spirit, and into some of
the conclusions of quantum mechanics and neurocardiology.
A caveat has to be expressed here. All the findings of this
paper are speculative and provisional, in other words, they are
not expressed here with the certainty of science but, while
based on scientific findings, they are extrapolations of these

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
findings. Since they are perceived as being in harmony with
statements of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, it is assumed that
they carry a certain validity, which needs to be further
developed. Religious truth is relative as the Guardian of the
Bahá’í Faith claimed, meaning that it is progressively coming
into the light of investigation, which process has been
previously described by this writer as progressive theology.
The Unity of matter and spirit in philosophical and
quantum mechanical considerations
The question of unity of spirit and matter can be solved in
different ways. The simplest solution is to deny that there is a
question and to eliminate one or the other side of it. While
today the elimination of matter as a reality is rather difficult
to claim, to eliminate spirit is easy and has been done in the
name of science quite generously.
In last year’s paper15 the connection of consciousness with
physical action as developed by Walker16 was described at
length. Here only a brief recapitulation will be given.
The astounding fact in this comparison is the new science of
quantum mechanics, which according to Walker gives an
explanation of the possibility of the spiritual affecting the
material in quantum events in the synapses of the nervous
system in the brain. These quantum effects, which are not
deterministically defined by cause and effect, can be influenced
by the observer, i.e., by the consciousness of the human mind.
Therefore, according to Walker, the spiritual mind can
influence matter at the level of the undetermined quantum
processes in the brain’s synapses that are small enough to allow
quantum effects to happen. Walker describes this process in
detail with the physics of quantum mechanics. In the context
of this description he explains a number of functions of the
mind, like sleep, ability to influence matter in rare cases, and
why the power of the mind is usually restricted, as common
sense experience tells us.
Another not yet considered question is the effect of the little
brain of the heart (as described below), which does not have
consciousness. Walker does not consider this, but it needs to
be included in this equation, a rather new and difficult task.
The difficulty is based on the fact that we do not know enough
about this “little brain of the heart,” to make cogent

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
conclusions. In the following we will make some conclusions
from
known
facts
Quantum
Mechanics
and
of
Neurocardiology.
The concepts of Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement,
and Excellence of the Cosmos are used in explaining and
interpreting the conclusions from quantum mechanics for the
heart. What was said in the previous paper will here be applied
to the heart.
Emergence
The Nobel Prize laureate in physics, Robert B. Laughlin,
developed the concept of emergence in his book: A different
Universe, Reinventing physics from the bottom down.17 In
other words, reality is defined by a view that takes the whole
into consideration, and this whole is a whole that integrates its
parts; it is an integrated whole. If this concept is applied to the
human heart, we can see that the heart is the unifying principle
of the body as well as the spiritual principle that unifies reality
and makes unity understood, while reason is concerned about
particulars and parts. This was stated by the Báb in the
following words:
For, verily, reason, even in its utmost level of
abstraction, is confined to understanding mere limited
phenomena, which fail go guide humans unto the
summit of the delight of their heart.18
That which is beyond these two extremes, which is the
Middle Path … can be comprehended by naught save the
heart. God has created the heart to understand His
unity and transcendence, and it is through the heart
that Divine Unity can be witnessed at the level of
action.19
Modern neurocardiology does recognize the intellectual
capacity of the “little brain of the heart” as will be shown
below, but the contribution of the heart to human
understanding and consciousness needs to be explored in the
future and is a matter of psychology, rather than
neurocardiology alone. According to the Bahá’í Scriptures, we
can say that God has created the heart to understand His unity
and transcendence and it is through the heart that Divine Unity
can be witnessed at the level of action, i.e., in reality.

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Enchantment through Spirituality
Ervin Laszlo in his book Science and the Reenchantment of
the Cosmos, the Rise of the Integral Vision of Reality 20
describes the changes quantum mechanics has made to the
understanding of the cosmos:
The current finding of the universe’s wholeness is the
fruit of sustained investigation, based on observation
and tested by experiment. It provides an entirely
different image of the world than the mechanistic,
materialistic and fragmented image we were taught in
school. A cosmos that is connected, coherent, and
whole recalls an ancient notion that was present in the
tradition of every civilization; it is an enchanted
cosmos. (p. 2)
This view of the cosmos brings spirituality and enchantment
into the understanding of reality and it can be directly applied
in the description of the Báb as the summit of the delight of
their heart.
Verily, these are souls who take delight in the
remembrance of God, Who dilates their hearts through
the effulgence of the light of knowledge and wisdom.
(SWB 145)
Or as Bahá’u’lláh has described this enchantment in a Hidden
Word:
O FRIEND!
In the garden of thy heart plant naught but the rose of
love, and from the nightingale of affection and desire
loosen not thy hold. Treasure the companionship of the
righteous and eschew all fellowship with the ungodly.
(PHW 3)
Entanglement in Unity
Erwin Schrödinger, born near Vienna, Austria, (1887-1961)
formulated the importance of this concept:
I consider [Entanglement or “Verschränkung”] not as
one, but as the characteristic trait of Quantum
Mechanics, the one that enforces its entire departure
from classical lines of thought.21

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
In other words all parts of the universe are entangled,
interwoven or intertwined with each other; the universe is a
whole and is organized as mentioned above in emerging units
on all levels of existence.
Consider this: In an experiment contrasting stimuli were
randomly presented on a computer screen to the observer, one
was presented to elicit feelings of love and acceptance, the
other fear and anxiety. The hearts of the candidates responded
accordingly as measured by the heart rate variability. The
surprising fact was that they responded about 7 seconds before
the computer started the random selection process.
In other words, even before the computer started to select
the respective picture, the heart already responded to what the
senses would perceive only seconds later. This reversal of cause
and effect cannot be explained in classical physics. Another
fact of entanglement is the widely observed fact that people are
aware of events that happen in distant areas, sometimes so far
away that any physical connection must be excluded.
Consequently, it has been established scientifically that the
heart is the first to perceive input from the perception through
the senses. As a matter of fact, it could be proven
experimentally that changes in sensual input are detected by the
heart seconds before the random computer program is started
that will select the presentation to the senses.
Of greatest significance here is our major finding,
namely, the electrophysiological evidence that the heart
is directly involved in the processing of information
about a future emotional stimulus seconds before the
body actually experiences the stimulus.” … “The heart
appears to play a direct role in the perception of future
events.22
Only quantum mechanics can explain the findings of
neurocardiology that the heart has intuition, i.e. that it can
perceive physical events before they are presented to the senses,
and the other widely known fact that the heart can know of
events that happen far away.23

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

In the Seven Valleys Bahá’u’lláh describes this shining quality
of the heart manifesting the oneness of the world.
Whensoever the light of Manifestation of the King of
Oneness settleth upon the throne of the heart and soul,
His shining becometh visible in every limb and member.
(SVFV 22)
Excellence of the Cosmos
Evan Harris Walker in his book “The Physics of
Consciousness, The Quantum Mind and the Meaning of
Life”24 describes consciousness and its interaction with the
brain:
Consciousness is the collection of potentialities that
developed as these electrons and these structures of the
brain interact (as quantum elements). (Walker 237)
By creating the possibilities that we experience as
consciousness and by selecting — by willing — which
synapse will fire, mind brings into reality each
moment’s thoughts, experiences and actions (Walker 237)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Walker at a conference at Berkeley “New visions of reality” said
“What we have been doing here is laying the foundations for a
religion of the twenty-first century.” (Walker 328) He concludes
his book:
Some have failed to see any place — any space — where
God could reside, and others have failed to see where
any consciousness could hide within the atoms of
matter. But we have found that reality. We have found
that hidden place. We have seen that the universe
springs from every thought of God and matter from
the very existence of mind. (Walker 337)
What needs to be emphasized is the fact that Walker does
not talk about the nervous system of the heart, yet his thinking
about the central nervous system must be applied, mutatis
mutandum, to the heart as well. The most important change
from the central nervous system to the so called “little brain of
the heart” is the fact that the latter does not have
consciousness, a fact we all know. Decisions of the heart
become conscious only in the mind, and cannot be directly
understood in our consciousness; therefore they often remain
unchecked and not clarified by reason. Nevertheless, they are
frequently followed and executed by the conscious mind in the
life of people, sometimes with questionable results. This issue
will be further pursued below.
The heart as the seat of the Revelation of God has been
described above and needs to be incorporated here,
consequently the place “where God resides” as Walker describes
it, is not consciousness, but the heart, where consciousness is
absent. The physical heart and its “little brain” is the center,
where the spiritual and the material meets and it is in contact
and constant communication with the brain and the mind,
where consciousness is present. All of this is understandable
only when we take the statement of Bahá’u’lláh serious — that
the spiritual in man is one single reality, yet it is differentiated
by its bodily instruments.
Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing
are but one single reality which hath manifold
expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments.
(SLH 154)

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

NOTES
1 This text is based on a compilation entitled “Education”, which is
included
in
a
two-volume
set
entitled
The
Compilation
of
Compilations, Volume I, p. 251, Copyright 1991 Bahá’í Publications
Australia, Maryborough, Victoria, Australia: “O Lord, help Thou Thy
loved ones to acquire knowledge and the sciences and arts, and to
unravel the secrets that are treasured up in the inmost reality of all
created beings. Make them to hear the hidden truths that are written
and embedded in the heart of all that is.”
2 In this paper the two or three letter abbreviations of the Bahá’í Writings
are used compiled by Jonah Winters and Brett Zamir: bahai-
library.com. All texts from Scared Scriptures are in italics.
3 This e-text is based on “Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas” Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, New York, Copyright (c) 1930 by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, All Rights Reserved, p.
308, a provisional translation. As to the authenticity of this tablet the
following information from Roger Dahl, Archivist of the National
Bahá’í Archives was provided:
That Tablet, which is on page 309, was to a Dr. E.H. Pratt of
Chicago. The Archives does not have the original Tablet but we
do have the translation that Dr. Pratt sent to Albert Windust
which was used in publishing the book. From a note by Albert
Windust apparently ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave permission for the
Tablet’s publication, which Dr. Pratt had requested.
There is always the possibility that the World Center Archives has
the original Tablet. The translation was done by Ameen Farid on
October 4, 1905 in Chicago.
4 The Gospel of John could be called the Gospel of the Manifestation in
the sense of the Bahá’í Writings. This becomes apparent when we
consider the eternal “Word” in the beginning (John 1:1) and the long
discussion throughout the Gospel with the Pharisees and Jewish
officials about the station of Jesus and the law of the Sabbath. Jesus
claimed to follow Moses (see John 5:46): “For had ye believed Moses, ye
would have believed me; for he wrote of me,” which was referring to
Deuteronomy 18:15 “The LORD thy God will raise up unto thee a
prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto
him ye shall hearken,” and later in Deuteronomy 18: 20, “But the
prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have
not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other
gods, even that prophet shall die.” Jesus was crucified when the high
priest claimed the same passages to Pontius Pilate (see John
19:7):”When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried
out, saying, crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

him, and crucify him: for I find no fault in him. The Jews answered him,
we have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself
the Son of God.” The law they quote must have been this law of
Deuteronomy quoted above. This connection is typically not followed
up in the Christian literature, and the specific reference is not
provided in the translations of the Bible. The Jerusalem Bible
(Doubleday and Co., New York 1966) for example, a completely
reference edition, only refers to Leviticus 24:16 (where it is stated that
the community has to stone such a man, which they had tried in the
past to do to Jesus) and not to the passage of Deuteronomy. This
connection and understanding of the station of Jesus becomes only
apparent when we consider the Gospels in the light of the Bahá’í
Revelation and the concept of Manifestation.
5 Book of Revelation 1:8, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the
ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come,
the Almighty. but Christ is all, and in all.
6 See footnote 1
7 Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, Understanding the Writings of the Báb,
Wilfried Laurier University Press, (Bahá’í Study Series), Canada 2008,
ISBN 978-1-55458-035-4 in the Chapter “The Modes of Interpretation,
pp. 39-66, especially pp. 42-45
8 Thomas Taaffe, in Cross Currents, Fall 95, Vo. 45, Issue 3, “Education of
the Heart” p. 380-392, It needs to be stressed that Taaffe in his article
contributes very important aspects to the “Heart”, even if this
definition seems to limit him.
9 Saiedi, ibid. p. 113
10 Wikipedia see under “heart”
11 Ken Wilber, Sex, Ecology and Spirituality, The Spirit of Evolution,
Shambhala, Boston & London, 2000, ps. 210-230
12 Leo Gabriel, Logic der Weltanschauung (Logic of the world view).
Verlag Pustet, Graz-Salzburg, Wien (Vienna Austria), 1949,
13 Wilber, ibid p. 211
14 Gabriel ibid. p. 16
15 The Paper was presented at the Irfán Colloquia in Bosch 2007 under the
Title “The emerging Universe, Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement,
and Excellence of the Cosmos.”
16 Walker, Evan Harris, The Physics of Consciousness, The Quantum Mind
and the Meaning of Life, Basic Books, A Member of the Perseus Books
Group, New York, 2000, pp. 165-214
17 Laughlin, Robert B., A Different Universe, Reinventing Physics from the
Bottom Down, Basic Books, A Member of the Perseus Books Group,
New York 2005
18 Saiedi, ibid. p. 211
19 Saiedi, ibid, p. 212

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

20 Laszlo, Ervin, Science and the Reenchantment of the Cosmos, The Rise
of the Integral Vision of Reality, Inner Traditions, Rochester,
Vermont, 2006
21 Quoted in Ghirardi’s, ibid. p. 165
22 Rollin McCraty, Mike Atkinson and Raymond Trevor Bradley:
“Electrophysiological Evidence of Intuition: Part 1. The Surprising
Role of the heart” in The Journal of Alternative and complementary
Medicine, Volume 10, Number 1, 2004, p. 140
23 This writer “knew” of his father’s death while listening to an opera many
miles away from the hospital where he died. It was not a thought; it was
nothing unusual, it was just a sure knowledge, simple and clear that
stood up in the mind and it was verified minutes later when I called my
brother. This is explained as the knowledge of the heart communicated
to the mind. Events like this are reported by many people and can only
be explained by the quantum concept of Entanglement.
24 Basic Books , New York 2000, henceforth pages are indicated as W p.#

“In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart”
The Heart in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction
The title is to this paper is taken from the Hidden Word of
Bahá’u’lláh, talking about the pure soil of the heart, and
indicating that the seeds of divine wisdom and the water of
certitude will make the soil fertile with divine knowledge. This
beautiful metaphor can be understood in many ways; in this
paper we will try to understand how the physical heart in its
new discovered properties can actually be the seat of knowledge
and right decisions.
33. O MY BROTHER!
Hearken to the delightsome words of My honeyed
tongue, and quaff the stream of mystic holiness from
My sugar-shedding lips. Sow the seeds of My divine
wisdom in the pure soil of thy heart, and water them
with the water of certitude, that the hyacinths of My
knowledge and wisdom may spring up fresh and green
in the sacred city of thy heart. (PHW 33)
In the previous paper the connection of the physical heart
with the spiritual aspect of man was described, here a more
close comparison of the scientific findings of the last decades
will be introduces and used for a better understanding of the
concept of heart as is presented in the Bahá’í Writings
The new science of Neurocardiology has reestablished the
importance of the heart for mental, emotional and physical
well-being. It has reaffirmed the deeper meaning of the
statement of Lucretius (circa 55 B.C.):
The dominant force in the whole body is that guiding
principle which we term mind or intellect. This is
firmly lodged in the mid-region of the breast. Here is
the place where fear and alarm pulsate. Here is felt the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
caressing touch of joy. Here, then, is the seat of the
intellect and the mind.1
The findings of this science are new, as described in an
article on Neurocardiology2; and will here presented in some
length, as the information is rather unexpected, even in
scientific circles.
In the last twenty years, evidence has accumulated for
the presence of a functional heart brain — first
described as the “little brain of the heart.” From a
neuroscience perspective, the nervous system within
the heart, that is intrinsic to the heart, is made up of
populations
of
neurons
capable
of
processing
information independent of extra cardiac neurons
(including those of the CNS3).
This collection of neurons can sense alterations in the
mechanical and chemical milieu of various regions
throughout the heart. With every beat of the heart,
changes in heart rate and regional dynamic changes are
detected and transduced into neuronal impulses that
are processed internally. Such information is also sent
to neurons in the base of the brain via afferent axons
in the vagus nerve and to the spinal column neurons via
afferent axons in sympathetic nerves. This information
is returned via efferent neurons controlling the heart.
Furthermore, circulating hormones influence the
behavior of the little brain of the heart.
It must be noted here that this “little brain” of the heart can
function independently from the cortical brain, as is evident in
heart transplants, where the heart continues functioning, even
when it is not yet connected to the brain.
Another aspect to be considered anew is the function of the
ANS, or what ‘Abdul-Bahá called the sympathetic nervous
system. “This nervous system has been assumed to be
independent of reason, beneath consciousness, functioning in
an autonomous fashion.” And further “the fact that our ANS
rarely impinges on our consciousness, however, should not be
interpreted as indicating that it is ‘primitive’ or that we can
exert no conscious influence on it.”4
And further it is stated that the ANS regulates the internal
environment in concert with neurons in the Central Nervous
System (hereafter abbreviated as CNS) that senses the external

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
environment. This paper further describes the function of the
sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system in detail and
reveals its close connection and interaction with the heart.
The paper concludes in stating:
An understanding of the complex anatomy and
function of the heart’s nervous system contributes an
additional dimension to the newly emerging view of the
heart as a sophisticated information processing center,
functioning not only in concert with the brain but also
independent of it. Further exploration of the part that
neurocardiological interactions play in sustaining
healthy functioning may permit a more comprehensive
understanding of the heart’s multidimensional role in
facilitating successful adaptation to the challenges of
daily living.5
These findings directly support ‘Abdu’l-Bahá statement
about the function of the heart in the maintenance of health,
when He states that “Physical and spiritual diseases will then
receive absolute healing.”
From the above findings of the recent research from the
Institute of HeartMath it can be concluded that the
importance of the heart and the sympathetic nervous system
for one’s health proves ‘Abdu’l-Bahá rather brief statement in
the initial quote above.
What about the other statement, indicating that the
sympathetic nervous system is between the physical and
spiritual and is connected to both? Can this statement be
proven by modern research as well?
The Appreciative Heart
The HeartMath Institute published a paper in 2003 with the
title “The Appreciative Heart” and it carries the subtitle: “The
Psychophysiology
of
Positive
Emotions
and
Optimal
Functioning”6. Some of the findings of this paper bring us
closer to the above quoted statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about the
connection of the physical and the spiritual and of the in-
between of these two areas.
In the abstract of this paper the authors explain that they
“review research that has identified new physiological correlates

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
associated with the experience of heartfelt positive emotions
with a specific focus on appreciation.” The question of
positive versus negative emotions and how these concepts can
relate to the nervous system is intriguing, to say the least.
Until recently, medicine and physiological research would
not have admitted the distinction between positive and
negative emotions, and both sciences would have discarded any
value statements in relation to the understanding of the
nervous system. Some emotions like fear, which leads to the
flight or fight response, have been studied extensively, but they
were not contrasted with positive emotions, such as love and
acceptance, in these studies.
Even psychology, trying to posture as hard science in
behaviorism, had no use for such value statements. On the
other side, in psychoanalysis, Freud talked about the mental
freedom allowing change to a higher and better level of
functioning after the dissolution of the neurosis in therapy.
This mental freedom, which is guided by the value system of a
person, allows changes towards health to be made, changes that
will result in positive emotions and a better and less troubled
life. In spite of this finding, Freud was unable to integrate this
idea of freedom into his theoretical understanding of the
psyche and strangely enough the term freedom did not find its
way into the subject index of the standard edition of Freud’s
work7.
Physiology was not good or bad or even correlated to good
and bad, to positive and negative emotions; the best one could
defend was the survival value of emotions in a strictly
Darwinian sense. While it might be possible to connect
positive emotions with survival of the fittest, it would
certainly be hard to prove. For example, while many regard the
Crucifixion of Christ as the highest value in the Christian
religion, it certainly does not follow the Darwinian
understanding of the survival of the fittest. On the other hand,
if good and bad have an intrinsic correlation in the
physiological sphere, we are closer to understanding the value
of sacrifice and of positive emotions like acceptance.
Good and bad, positive and negative emotions are moral
concepts, are concepts that fit possibly into the mind, but how
could they have correlates in the brain, or the heart? This
question will remain open for the time being. After this

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
philosophical excursion let’s follow the research in the quoted
article, where it is stated:
Recent
work
in
the
relatively
new
field
of
Neurocardiology has firmly established that the heart is
a sensory organ and a sophisticated information
encoding and processing center.
Its circuitry enables it to learn, remember, and make
functional decisions independent of the cranial brain.8
The findings of this paper are based on the measurements of
heart rate variability (hereafter abbreviated as HRV), which is a
measure of the naturally occurring beat-to-beat changes in
heart rate. When this HRV or heart rhythm was measured it
was found that there is an important link between emotions
and changes in the patters of both efferent and afferent
autonomic activity. The paper concludes in stating:
In contrast, sustained positive emotions, such as
appreciation, love, or compassion, are associated with
highly ordered or coherent patterns in the heart
rhythms, reflecting greater synchronization between
the two branches of the ANS, and a shift in autonomic
balance toward increased parasympathetic activity.
We have found that during the experience of emotions
such as anger, frustration, or anxiety, heart rhythms
become more erratic and disordered, indicating less
synchronization in the reciprocal action that ensures
between the parasympathetic and sympathetic branches
of the autonomic nervous system (ANS).32
In other words, emotions like love, appreciation and
compassion have a direct influence on the physiological
reaction of the heart, which in turn influences the brain and the
whole body. (See Table 1 below) Research has further shown that
the change between negative and positive emotions can be
produced rather quickly in any person who has learned to use
the biofeedback system of Freeze-Frame, which has been
developed, tested and researched extensively in different
populations by the Institute of HeartMath. These heartfelt
positive emotions, such as love, appreciation, care and
compassion, have long been associated with spiritual
experience. Doc Children and Rolling McCraty, Ph.D. have
explored this connection in the article “Psychophysiological
Correlates of Spiritual Experience,9 where they conclude:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
We believe that heart rhythm coherence training holds
promise as a practical and potent approach to
empower individuals to improve the quality of their
lives. By enabling the intentional self-generation and
reinforcement
of
physiological
states
that
are
correlated with increased love, care, compassion, inner
harmony, vitality and flow, in essence this intervention
helps individuals create an internal environment that is
conducive to fostering spiritual experience. Some
might indeed describe the end result as being able to
live more “from the heart” in alignment with their
deepest core values, or with greater connection to
spirit.
Table 1
The different emotional states of the heart are here depicted,
on the left is the Heart Rate Variability described, in the
middle the corresponding frequency of this variability. It is
rather remarkable that in the emotional situation of Love and
Acceptance a coherence frequency of 700 is achieved, while in
all other states the frequency is about 150. On the right side of
the picture the heart’s reaction to extreme negative emotions is
shown, where a critical statement of a marital conflict was
presented to the patient, throwing him into a fit of anger.21

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology

Table 2
This picture combines a multiple emotional response pattern
of the heart as it is presented by the Heart Rate Variability in
different emotional situations.
This spiritual dimension of positive emotions, and what this
means in terms of religious and spiritual experiences, needs be
followed up elsewhere. What is here called a correlate between
physiological states and emotions was expressed by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá as the correlation between the material and divine world
and He explains the position of the heart and the ANS as
connecting both worlds10.
The question remains: how can an intentional change of a
person in a moral category affect the physiology of that
person? Since Descartes and before, this issue has been a thorn
in philosophical and scientific questioning of the relationship
between the soul and the body, the mind and the brain, or
however the split is conceived. The fact that science was
philosophically based on a prevalent materialistic and
reductionistic foundation was the source of this omission,
and this situation can be best described by the term scientism
as a philosophical rather than scientific approach.11 Certainly a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
new understanding of these issues is required to explain the
findings reported.
At this point this issue of philosophy will not be further
pursued. What is important here is the fact that the experience
of the human mind and body has created a new paradigm and a
new therapeutic activity that has been proven to be very helpful
in many areas. McCraty states in this paper:
During states of psycho-physiological coherence,
bodily systems function with a high degree of
synchronization, efficiency, and harmony and the
body’s natural regenerative processes appear to be
facilitated. Psychologically, this mode is associated
with improved cognitive performance, increased
emotional
stability,
and
enhanced
psychosocial
function and the quality of life. Additionally, many
people report experiencing a notable reduction in inner
mental dialogue along with feelings of increased peace,
self-security, and sustained positive emotions after
practicing maintaining this mode even for short
periods such as a few days or weeks.
As reported, these described effects are staggering and they
match what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated when He talked about
“physical and spiritual diseases will then receive absolute
healing.” Or, as the researchers say, “the body’s natural
regenerative processes appear to be facilitated.”
The Inner and Outer in Bahá’í Theology
In the Bahá’í writings the inner and outer aspects of reality
and of the human condition are a familiar topic. Many terms
are used to express these opposing characteristics, such as:
physical and spiritual, manifest and hidden, seen and unseen,
immanent and evident, internal and external, inner and outer,
inwardness and outwardness. We find these different
translations for the original concepts in the Arabic and Persian
languages.
In the above quoted passage of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá this
understanding is presumed. Here He uses the concepts of
physical and spiritual, or material and divine world. He states
a surprising fact, namely that the relations between these two
have to be normal for perfect appearance. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains this relationship in the next paragraph again; where He

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
states that the two worlds have to be well co-related. This fact
will make the hearts become heavenly and the aspirations pure
and divine so that a perfect connection shall take place. This
situation is called a perfect manifestation and results in
healing of physical and spiritual of diseases. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
clearly states that these two aspects have to be well
coordinated, and He calls this coordination normal.
Everything else seems to be abnormal and the cause of spiritual
and physical abnormalities or diseases.
This fact is expressed in the studies of autonomic function
and balance. Clinical correlates of Autonomic Dysrythmias are
mentioned as being:
Fatigue
Migraine
Depression
Fibromyalgia
Irritable Bowel
Panic Disorder
Nausea
Dizziness
Arrhythmia
Hypertension
Hypoglycemia
Sleep Disorder
Anxiety
Asthma
Premenstrual Syndrome
Mitral Valve Prolapse 12
The conditions in this veritable list of ailments of modern
life are all related to the disturbance of the autonomic nervous
system and of its disharmony. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
these “physical and spiritual diseases” are the consequence of
what He describes as a lack of coordination between the
material and divine world in the “sympathetic nervous system”
of the human person.
The conclusions of this brief description are obvious:
physical and spiritual diseases are caused by an abnormal
relation
between
the
spiritual
and
physical
and
by
disorganization of these two aspects of man. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
further states that this correlation affects the heart and, if it is
co-related normally (according to the norm) it will make the
heart heavenly and grow the heart’s aspirations pure and
divine, making a perfect connection. In a way the argument is
circular; it states that if these two worlds are coordinated well,
then the heart makes a perfect connection between these two
worlds. And as we will see below, this circular relationship is
truly a fact of the relationship between the mind and the heart
of man, as well as between the different aspects of the reality of
the universe.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Here we will consider three texts of Bahá’u’lláh, which are the
key to this question of the inner and outer of the human
person. The first two passages were revealed before the
Announcement of Bahá’u’lláh at the Garden of Ridván (1863).
The third text was written in Adrianople and later in ‘Akká,
where Bahá’u’lláh arrived in 1868.
The first text is from the Seven Valleys, i.e., from the central
valley — the fourth valley — the valley of Unity.13 After giving
several examples of the relative world of attributes, Bahá’u’lláh
presents the following explanation which He introduced with
the words “that the full meaning be manifest.”
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee thou
shouldst comprehend the four divine states, and that
the nightingale of thine heart on all the branches of the
rose tree of existence, whether visible or concealed,
should cry out: “He is the first and the last, the Seen
and the Hidden….” (SVFV 27)
Bahá’u’lláh explains that the human reality, the “truth about
thyself” is expressed in these four states, Inwardness and
Outwardness,
First
and
Last.14
The
inwardness
and
outwardness can be interpreted with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement
of physical and spiritual aspects of man. In the picture of the
nightingale of the heart and of the branches of the rose tree of
existence, the essential nature of this understanding is
presented in poetic and mystic language.
That these four divine states refer to the comprehension of
the Manifestation is clearly expressed by Bahá’u’lláh in the next
quote from His book of Certitude, where He explains what it
means to comprehend and attain to the Manifestation, which
He calls “holy Luminaries:”
By attaining, therefore, to the presence of these holy
Luminaries, the “Presence of God” Himself is attained.
From their knowledge, the knowledge of God is
revealed, and from the light of their countenance, the
splendour of the Face of God is made manifest.
Through the manifold attributes of these Essences of
Detachment, Who are both the first and the last, the
seen and the hidden, it is made evident that He Who is
the Sun of Truth is “the First and the Last, the Seen,
and the Hidden.” (KI 141)

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
The next quote explains the effect of this harmony of the four
states of man,
O people! Fear God, and disbelieve not in Him Whose
grace hath surrounded all things, Whose mercy hath
pervaded the contingent world, and the sovereign
potency of Whose Cause hath encompassed both your
inner and your outer beings, both your beginning and
your end. Stand ye in awe of the Lord, and be of them
that act uprightly. Beware lest ye be accounted among
those who allow the verses of their Lord to pass them by
unheard and unrecognized; these, truly, are of the
wayward. (SLH 40)
Bahá’u’lláh speaks of the Divine potency of His Cause, which
encompasses our inner and outer being, our beginning and
end. To stand in the mercy of the Lord, to act uprightly is
required; otherwise one truly is counted among the wayward.
In other words, the acting uprightly, the leading a life of
compassion, care, love and acceptance is the requirement to be
able to accept the message of Him Whose grace surrounds all
things. Living uprightly and experiencing the inner balance of
the physical and spiritual is a precondition to achieve the unity
of the inner world in the harmony of the heart and the unity of
the outer world, expressed in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá formulation about
“the heart of all that is.”
Consequences of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
These passages of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh give us a
gleaning of what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated in the short passage about
the sympathetic nervous system. The more the science of
medicine explores the human condition the more the words of
the Bahá’í Writings become obvious and understood. What has
been given us in spiritual language can now be found in
scientific research. And this is not by accident. Bahá’u’lláh
explained:
Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is
endowed with such potency as can instill new life into
every human frame, if ye be of them that comprehend
this truth. All the wondrous works ye behold in this
world have been manifested through the operation of
His supreme and most exalted Will, His wondrous and
inflexible Purpose. …

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
All the wondrous achievements ye now witness are the
direct consequences of the Revelation of this Name. In
the days to come, ye will, verily, behold things of which
ye have never heard before. (GWB 14)
What is here described about the effect, which the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh has on the development of the world,
can equally be applied to the “inwardness” and “outwardness”
of man and the unity of all four states of man as expressed in
the human heart. Following the above quoted statement of
Bahá’u’lláh we can say that the energies released by this
Revelation have a century later resulted in the discovery of
what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has already briefly stated.
The sympathetic nervous system is between the spiritual and
physical aspect of man and the harmony and coherence of this
system is a cure for all disharmonies in life, which is expressed
in the pathologies of the dysrythmias of the human organism.
With gratitude and in a spirit of appreciation we can study
and use what human research has made available for the healing
of humanity as ordered by the Divine Physician, Bahá’u’lláh.
Returning to the twofold meaning of the concept “heart”,
what was called the physical or medical heart and the
metaphorical concept of the spiritual heart, the following
conclusions can be made from the findings described in this
paper. One is specific; the other conclusion is more general.
Specifically,
the
finding
of
neurocardiology
have
demonstrated that the heart is much more than a physical or
medical blood pump, so any metaphorical use of this term can
draw on a whole host of abilities and functions of this physical
body organ, called the heart. Consequently, the concept “heart”
as used in the Bahá’í Writings becomes not only more
transparent and meaningful, it furthermore directs the
meaning and understanding of this word towards the
underlying unity and oneness of the world, indicating that
matter and spirit are fundamentally one and not to be seen in
opposition or mutual exclusion.
In general, even the physical heart participates in the newly
developed understanding of the world. The cosmos, which
modern physics and cosmology describes, is not at all a
mechanical machine, totally regulated by cause and effect, but
it is an emerging, enchanted, entangled and excellent world,
where spirit and matter must be seen in their unity, where the

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
parts constitute the whole, and the whole equally constitute the
parts in mutual dependence and support.
The new view of the cosmos and of the heart brings together
what the Bahá’í Writings describe, when they talk so frequently
and eloquently about the heart. The Heart is described not only
as constituting the unity of the individual human person, not
only as the place where man is in contact with God and His
revelation, but the word heart is used as well in a cosmological
sense, describing the unity of the universe in phrases like “the
heart of all that is” and the “heart of the world.” The spiritual
unity of this world will be described in the following chapter
and what the meaning of this unity is in human experience.
The Human Spirit and the Spirit of Faith
The following question has to be raised at this point, how
can the results of a physiological exercise be related to the
spirituality that is expressed by the Bahá’í Faith? Is using the
Freeze-Frame technique the same as praying, or as believing in
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh? Certainly not! We must ask what
the difference is and in what way can a physiological exercise
have value in the expression of religious faith? We must
distinguish between the human spirit and the spirit of faith as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
The human spirit, which distinguishes man from the
animal, is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one
thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the
philosophers is the rational soul, embraces all beings,
and as far as human ability permits discovers the
realities of things and becomes cognizant of their
peculiarities and effects, and of the qualities and
properties of beings. But the human spirit, unless
assisted by the spirit of faith, does not become
acquainted with the divine secrets and the heavenly
realities. It is like a mirror, which, although clear,
polished and brilliant, is still in need of light. Until a
ray of the sun reflects upon it, it cannot discover the
heavenly secrets. (SAQ 208)
Clearly, the human spirit or the rational soul can become
cognizant of the qualities and properties of beings. Applied to
this situation, the human spirit can detect the importance of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
the heart and the variance of the heartbeat, can develop the
science of neurocardiology and can develop a technique to
improve the harmony and health of the human body and spirit.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá summarizes this activity as clearing and polishing
the mirror of the human mind.
He does not underestimate this task; He only puts it in the
right perspective. Only when the human mind is polished and
clear, only if people practice positive emotions and action in
their lives, can the light of the divine Revelation reach the
human soul.
Bahá’u’lláh expresses this in frequent statements, for
example, when He says in the Arabic Hidden Words:
O SON OF SPIRIT!
My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and
radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient,
imperishable and everlasting. (HW Ar1)
and again in the Persian Hidden Words:
O MY BROTHER!
Hearken to the delightsome words of My honeyed
tongue, and quaff the stream of mystic holiness from
My sugar-shedding lips. Sow the seeds of My divine
wisdom in the pure soil of thy heart, and water them
with the water of certitude, that the hyacinths of My
knowledge and wisdom may spring up fresh and green
in the sacred city of thy heart. (HW Pr33)
Here again the heart is the center of the meeting of the divine
and the human, of the revelation and the wisdom presented to
man. And again, the heart has to be pure, has to be prepared to
receive the seeds of the divine wisdom of the Manifestation.
Any means that can assist in this process of preparing the
heart is helpful. Any technique that brings the heart in harmony
with the body and with the world around a person; any process
that can stop the disharmony and dysrythmias that are the
hallmark of modern spiritual and physical pathology, must be
used to prepare a pure, kindly and radiant heart.
Nevertheless, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly states, this is only the
pre-condition, only the preparation of the heart, the human
mirror of the rational soul, which makes it ready to receive the

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
spirit of faith, the spirit of the Manifestation of God. It is not
accidental that feelings of love, appreciation, care and
compassion are the hallmark of this process—they are the
cleansing of the heart. These feelings purify the heart and make
it kind to one’s fellow man. When our hearts are in sync with
our bodies, with humanity and the world, we can, as ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá has stated in His prayer, “hear the hidden truths that are
written and embedded in the heart of all that is.” “The heart of
all that is” is the same as the city of the heart, the acceptance of
the Manifestation, functioning as the Divine Physician who
has come to cure a sick humanity.
Conclusion
We will conclude with a word of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in which the
whole of this paper is summarized:
Man has two powers, and his development two aspects.
One power is connected with the material world and by
it he is capable of material advancement. The other
power is spiritual and through its development his
inner, potential nature is awakened. These powers are
like two wings. Both must be developed, for flight is
impossible with one wing. Praise be to God! Material
advancement has been evident in the world but there is
need of spiritual advancement in like proportion. We
must strive unceasingly and without rest to accomplish
the development of the spiritual nature in man, and
endeavor with tireless energy to advance humanity
toward the nobility of its true and intended station.
For the body of man is accidental; it is of no
importance. The time of its disintegration will
inevitably come. But the spirit of man is essential and
therefore eternal. It is a divine bounty. It is the
effulgence of the Sun of Reality and therefore of
greater importance than the physical body. (BWF 262)
We need to use both wings, the one provided by science and
human progress and the other provided by Revelation,
following the spiritual aspect of man, leading to the “Sun of
Reality.” The harmony does not originate from a biofeedback
technique, but in reverse. The biofeedback technique works
because of this inherent harmony, which is “true of thyself,”
which is given to us, so we can recognize the Divine States.
Love and Care, Acceptance and Compassion are not only tools

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
to promote harmony through the biofeedback technique as has
been discovered by modern science. Obviously, the system
works even without any recognition of higher truth.
Nevertheless, it will only bring fruit if the inner capacity to
recognize true spirituality by the user of this technique is
activated.
What ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts so convincingly, is the need to
develop the spiritual nature of humanity in order to take
advantage of modern scientific findings, such as the
HeartMath procedure. On the other hand, it can be hoped that
the increased focus on positive emotion, given in this
scientific biofeedback technique, will awaken the spiritual
potential in people and direct them away from negative
emotions to positive ones.
This emotional shift increases spirituality in general and
hopefully will lead to the expression of spirituality in moral
action and religious affiliation as well. The mutual
complementation of the two wings is the most effective way to
improve the fate of humankind, and the need to develop both
aspects in harmony is a major focus of the Bahá’í Faith. This
Faith is the first religion in the history of humanity that
combines these two aspects of the human capacity. All
previous major religions have mainly focused on the spiritual
and moral capacities. Science did not exists then and human
scientific and material progress was unknown in their times,
compared with what we have experienced since the Advent of
the Báb.
The Bahá’í faith is the religion for our time, primarily
because this faith responds to the material development of
humanity, giving it a new meaning in the spiritual dimension.
Today this spiritual dimension is in the process of being
discovered, even by the material progress of science. In the
presented practice and research of HeartMath, the value of
positive emotions for physical health and inner peace and
harmony has been demonstrated. The connection is based on
the sympathetic nervous system and the heart, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
noted, and pondering upon this issue results in recognizing the
value and prophetic power of these statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Humanity is at the beginning of this development and its
future should be seen in this improved harmony of scientific
and religious progress. According to the Bahá’í Faith the

“Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Neurocardiology
Manifestation of God brings this Progressive Revelation to the
world.
The Divine Physician, who has been sent to cure the problems
of mankind, is the initiator, the originator, and the sustainer
of this creative process. The universality of this new message,
the catholicity of this new religion, and the spirituality of the
human reality, as promoted by this Faith of Divine origin —
and nothing else — is the future of humanity.
The combination of science and religion, of human research
and divine revelation will allow “the nightingale of thine heart,”
the human soul, to wing its way into the unity of mankind, “on
all the branches of the rose tree of existence.” (SVFV 27) This
unity of man, of humankind, of all of their personal and
scientific abilities, as well as all of their social and cultural
achievements, is the promise made to all of humanity by the
Manifestation of God, by Bahá’u’lláh. He is the return of
Christ and one with all previous Prophets.
This unity is nothing else than the promise of the coming of
the Kingdom of God on earth as predicted in the Lord’s Prayer
for the world’s future. And this future is starting now in the
Bahá’í Faith and in all men of good will.

NOTES
1 Lucretius, On the Nature of things, Book III quoted from
“Neurocardiology, Anatomical and Functional Principles” J. Andrew
Armour, MD., PhD., University of Montreal. Published by the Institute
of HeartMath, 14700 West park Ave, Boulder Creek, California 95006
2 Armour, ibid. page 5, See previous footnote
3 Central Nervous System
4 Armour, ibid., p. 2
5 Armour, ibid., p. 15
6 Rollin McCray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Appreciative Heart, The
Psychophysiology of Positive Emotions and Optimal Functioning,
Published by the Institute of HeartMath, 14700 West Park Ave.,
Boulder Creek, California 95006, 2003 www.heartmath.org
7 Confer this author’s dissertation: Wolfgang Klebel, “Transference and
Culture, towards a New Understanding of this Concept of Depth-
Psychology” (Fuller Graduate School of Psychology, Pasadena, 1976),
where it is stated; “at this point it is sufficient to state that Freud could
not, at least theoretically, combine his scientific determinism with this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

clinical observation of mental freedom. This ability to decide is
increased through analysis and Freud described it as the task of this
procedure. Nevertheless, it cannot be assumed that these statements
about choice, freedom etc., are only a metaphor in Freud’s writing,
since without them he cannot describe what happens in analysis.
Without these concepts, the whole system of psychoanalysis does not
make sense.”
8 Rollin McCray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Psychophysiology of Positive
Emotions and Optimal Functioning, ibid. p. 1
9 This article was found at the www.heartmath.org website and it is a
reprint from AAPB/Biofeedback Magazine, Winter 2001 pp. 13-17
www.aapb.org
10 From personal experience and from others, who have tried it, it should
be mentioned that using prayers instead of “heartfelt emotions” during
this exercise is equally, if not more effective to achieve the inner
harmony.
11 This reductionistic background of the scientific world view was
extensively pointed out by Ken Wilber, among others,
12 Rolling McCraty, Mike Atkinson, Contributors; “Autonomic Assessment
Report,” HeartMath Research Center, Institute of HeartMath, ibid.
Publication No. 96-028, p. 14.
13 This verse of Bahá’u’lláh was the central theme of a paper of this author;
“True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy,” in Lights of Irfán, book Six,
2005, pp. 87-120
14 In a paper printed in Lights of ‘Irfán (Book Six, Bahá’í National Center,
Evanston IL, 2005, pp. 87-120), “True of Thyself. The Mystical Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy” this
writer has presented a comment on this passage in the light of the
philosophical and psychological implications following some of the
description of Ken Wilber.

Some Answered Questions
A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge
Introduction
The purpose of this paper is to identify and explore the
philosophical positions explicitly and implicitly embedded in
Some Answered Questions (SAQ) which celebrates the centenary
of its publication this year. Such a study of SAQ is valuable
for at least five reasons. First, it facilitates a deeper and more
precise understanding and appreciation of the philosophical
foundations of the Bahá’í Writings. Indeed, SAQ itself clearly
invites examination from a philosophic perspective not only by
the way it implicitly incorporates philosophical concepts or
ideas in its explanations but also by its explicit discussions of
such topics as the “reality of the exterior world,”1 the nature of
God, proofs for God’s existence, the difference between
emanation and manifestation and the four-fold analysis of
causality to name only the most obvious. While these examples
all refer to ontological issues, SAQ also deals explicitly with
issues in onto-theology, epistemology, personal and social
ethics as well as in philosophical anthropology and psychology.
Second, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “in this age the peoples
of the world need the arguments of reason”2 also invites a
rational, i.e. philosophical analysis of SAQ (and the Writings)
in order to make our teaching more effective by meeting
people’s need for the “arguments of reason.” Bahá’u’lláh’s
exhortation to “be anxiously concerned with the needs of the
age ye live in”3 reinforces our obligations in this regard.
Third, a philosophic understanding of SAQ is extremely
useful in conducting rational inter-faith dialogue, not only to
discover the foundational similarities we would expect to find
since religions are essentially one, but also to give precise
formulations and analyses of historically developed doctrinal
differences. By putting such dialogue on a rational,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
philosophical footing, we are more likely to generate genuine
understanding than by mere exchanges of competing views.
Fourth, a philosophic understanding of SAQ (and the Writings
as a whole) also facilitates the task of apologetics, of explaining
and defending the teachings against critique or even outright
attack. This is difficult to accomplish without a good
understanding of the philosophic foundations of the Bahá’í
teachings and the issues they involve. Even if opponents are not
convinced, it will at least be possible to demonstrate that the
teachings have a rational foundation and form a coherent
world-vision or Weltanschauung. A philosophically based,
rational apologetics will be an increasingly useful, too, as the
Faith becomes better known and subject to more sophisticated
critiques. Finally, a philosophical understanding of SAQ will
help scholars determine the nature of the ideas that inform the
Bahá’í Faith, and to identify those philosophical schools with
which it shares the greatest affinities. Conversely, it will help us
discover which schools are the most difficult to reconcile with
SAQ (and the Writings in general) and why this is so. Such
understanding also helps us to determine what makes the Bahá’í
teachings philosophically unique and uniquely fitted to meet
“the needs of the age [we] live in.”4
In studying SAQ from a philosophic perspective, we shall
examine not only the explicitly given philosophical statements
but also their wider implications or extensions in order to
show their applicability to a wide variety of areas. For example,
`Abdu’l-Bahá makes use of Aristotle’s theory of four-fold
causality — a concept often misunderstood by modern
philosophers and scientists — and says that this analysis of
causality applies to “the existence of everything.”5 Thus, as we
shall demonstrate, it is possible to extend its application to the
analysis of the family, society in general or even the Bahá’í
community. Moreover, implicit in this causal analysis is an
entire ontology of matter and form, essence, substance,
essential and accidental attributes and teleology. These terms
and categories exemplify a particular way of observing and
analysing reality that differs dramatically from other schools
of thought such as modern empiricism or postmodernism.
Bahá’ís wishing a more complete philosophic understanding of
SAQ (and the Writings) should be familiar with this way of
analysing reality which has clear affinities to the philosophical
tradition begun by Plato, Aristotle and Plotinus — what this
paper calls ‘the Athenian tradition’ — and continues most

Some Answered Questions
actively in our time in the work of Whitehead and in the works
of the various schools of neo-Aristotelians and neo-Thomists. 6
This study will also begin the process of extracting implicit
philosophical principles and implications from SAQ, such as,
for example, a version of intelligent design theory inherent in
the teaching that “Nature is subjected to an absolute
organization, to determined laws, to a complete order and a
finished design.” 7 This statement clearly rules out the more
militant forms of Darwinism promulgated by such writers as
Dawkins8 and Hitchens,9 which claim that the universe, and
life, especially human life, are merely a result of blind
fortuitous accidents. This does not imply that SAQ embraces
the Christian versions of intelligent design, but it does imply
that SAQ accepts some variation of intelligent design theory.
Consequently, in light of the teaching of harmony between
religion and science, Bahá’ís are faced with a new philosophic
challenge of how to reconcile the acceptance of intelligent
design with vehement scientific rejection of any such concept.
The resulting investigations will inevitably lead us to further
explorations of the Writings and the philosophy of science.
1. SAQ’s Ontology: Some Basic Principles
In its simplest terms, ontology concerns our theory of being
i.e. what we mean when we say that something ‘is’ or ‘is real’ as
opposed to being ‘unreal;’ ontology also explores the nature of
real things and how they are related to each other. Doing
ontology is unavoidable since, either explicitly or implicitly,
every statement about the world contains ontological
assumptions that guide our understanding and action. For
example, the simple statement, ‘I shall walk the dog’ assumes (a)
that ‘I’ exists in some way, (b) that ‘I’ have could make such a
decision, (c) the dog exists in some way, (d) that ‘I’ and the dog
are distinct and separate entities, exterior to each other, (e)
that motion is possible and real and that (f) the city street
outside also exists. It is, of course, possible to dig much, much
deeper, but this simple example illustrates that we cannot avoid
doing ontology even in our simplest thought processes and
actions.
This certainly applies to religious texts. For example, if a
religion teaches that there is a transcendent God Who is the
source or ground of the material world, it has made several
ontological claims. The most obvious is that reality contains
two different kinds of entities. On one hand we have a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
contingent, material world that depends on something else for
its existence and on the other, an entity which is non-
contingent, independent and not material. It follows therefore
that ontologically speaking, existence has at least a dualistic,
two part structure involving two radically different kinds of
entities and that the existence of one ‘part’ i.e. God, is a
logically necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of
the other, i.e. creation. This, in turn, has implications for our
relationship to non-contingent, independent source as well as
its contingent and dependent world this Source created. At
this point, ontology reveals practical implications for our lives
because how we conduct our lives is a determined by how we
understand reality. Ontology begins to show its onto-
theological and ethical implications.
We shall begin our exploration of the ontology embedded in
SAQ by asking a fundamental question: is the exterior world
real or is it unreal i.e. a dream, illusion, fiction or
construction created either by Descartes’ demon, Maya or even
by ourselves? The belief that the exterior world is a mere fantasy
may be called ‘maya-ism’ after the veiling or illusion creating
power (sometimes portrayed as a goddess) in the Hindu
religion. In SAQ, `Abdu’l-Bahá flatly rejects the view that
reality is a phantasm.
Certain sophists think that existence is an illusion, that
each being is an absolute illusion which has no
existence — in other words, that the existence of beings
is like a mirage, or like the reflection of an image in
water or in a mirror, which is only an appearance
having in itself no principle, foundation or reality.
This theory is erroneous.10
It is noteworthy that `Abdu’l-Bahá refers to those who
maintain that the world is an “absolute illusion” as “sophists,”
a term traditionally associated with flawed and deceptive
reasoning. Use of this term signals His rejection of maya-ism
which is confirmed by His statement that “[t]his theory is
erroneous.” Consequently, for any Bahá’í-based philosophy, the
unqualified assertion that “existence is an illusion” is not an
option for understanding reality. This limitation is significant
because it helps establish the view that SAQ contributes to
laying out guidelines within which any Bahá’í-based philosophy
must work.

Some Answered Questions
2. Ontological Realism
Three closely related far-reaching consequences follow from
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement. The first and most obvious is that
“each being”11 in the exterior world is real, i.e. possesses some
“principle, foundation, or reality”12 which give it some degree
of existence “in itself.” In other words, “each being” has at least
some degree of innate existence, is individual, is distinct and
possesses some detachment or independence from other beings
and is, in that sense, unique. As `Abdu’l-Bahá’ says in a later
section of this passage, “in their own degree they [things in the
exterior world] exist.”13 Each thing “in the condition of being
[] has a real and certain existence.”14 They are not mere
“appearances” of something else, i.e. epiphenomena, passive
side-effects or by-products that possesses no “principle,
foundation or reality” of their own. This idea is re-enforced by
the following statement:
for though the existence of beings in relation to the
existence of God is an illusion, nevertheless, in the
condition of being it has a real and certain existence.
It is futile to deny this. For example, the existence of
the mineral in comparison with that of man is
nonexistence … but the mineral has existence in the
mineral world … Then it is evident that although beings
in relation to the existence of God have no existence,
but are like the mirage or the reflections in the mirror,
yet in their own degree they exist.15
This statement makes it unequivocably clear that according to
`Abdu’l-Bahá while degrees of reality differ, every being is, in
its own degree, undeniably real. It is worth noting that He
flatly rejects any contradictory viewpoint: “It is futile to deny
this,” He says, thereby foreclosing any argument to the
contrary. He emphasises the reality of creation elsewhere by
stating “Now this world of existence in relation to its maker is
a real phenomenon.”16 In other words, it has its own,
undeniable degree of reality. The reason for this will be
discussed in the section on “Existence and Nonexistence.”
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that each thing has its degree of
existence provides a realist foundation for Bahá’í ontology and
epistemology. If “each being” has its own “principle,
foundation or reality” and reflects one of the names of God in
its own way, it is, therefore, not only genuinely distinct from
all other things but also independent from them, i.e. has its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
own principle or foundation of existence “in itself.”17 Having
this principle or foundation “in itself” establishes a basis for
the ontological independence of “each being” (except, of
course, from God) including independence from human
observers, which is to say, the ontological status of “each
being” is does not depend on being observed by humans or on
human beliefs or linguistic practices. As we shall have occasion
to discover in later discussions, the realist orientation to
reality has enormous implications for epistemology especially
in regards to the concept of ‘essence.’ It also has far-reaching
implications for the relations between Bahá’í philosophy and
contemporary postmodernism.18
3. Ontological Pluralism
The second major consequence is that in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement we find the ontological basis for ontological
pluralism, i.e. the belief that reality is made up of a multiplicity
of individual things each of which “proclaims to us one of the
names of God”19 in its own way and to the limits of its
capacity. In other words, reality is made up of genuinely
distinct beings whose differences are real and fundamental and
not merely an appearance, illusion or matter of perspective.
Their individual existence is not merely a “mirage” or reducible
to something else that is ‘more fundamental’ such as a ground
of being, or God.
Accepting some form of ontological pluralism entails the
rejection of ontological monism according to which there are
no fundamental divisions or distinctions among things —
including the distinction between the independent Creator and
the dependent creations. In other words, the things of created
world can ultimately be reduced to particular modes of being
or appearances of God who is the only real thing or substance
in existence. All distinctions are illusory for those possessing
the enlightenment to see through the unreal distinct surface
phenomena to the one reality underneath. According to SAQ,
however, the distinctions between individual beings are real,
i.e. “each being” has its own “principle, foundation or
reality”20 though, of course, ultimately, this multiplicity of
beings operates “under one law from which they will never
depart.”21
Moreover, as we shall see, in our discussion about the nature
of God, SAQ categorically rejects any suggestion that God, the
independent and non-contingent Creator can in any way be

Some Answered Questions
ontologically one with dependent and contingent creation. The
distinction between the independent and non-contingent and
the dependent and contingent cannot be undone or overcome.
The reason is obvious. For humans to become ontologically one
with the absolutely independent and non-contingent God
would be to lose their particular identity as the kinds of beings
they are, and the same would hold true for God were He to
unite with the contingent. Not only would this deny
ontological pluralism by vitiating real differences, but it would
also imply that there can be change in God insofar as He could
be unified with His creation in some way.
The belief that the existence of the exterior world and its
beings are an illusion vis-à-vis God’s absolute existence is not
an inadvertent re-admission of monism into Bahá’í ontology.
It might be argued that since only God really, i.e. absolutely
exists, then all other things are not real, illusory or mirages.
Consequently, only one being remains — God — as real, and
that, of course, is precisely the monist position, i.e. there is
only one real substance, or being or will and that everything else
is ultimately, unreal, mere epiphenomena. In other words, the
distinctions between things are unreal or illusory, including the
distinction between God and His creation. However, `Abdu’l-
Bahá clearly rejects this position; speaking of the things of this
world, He says, “in their own degree they exist.”22 Elsewhere He
says,
So man exists; the animal, the plant and the mineral
exist also — but the degrees of these four existences
vary. What a difference between the existence of man
and of the animal! Yet both are existences. It is evident
that in existence there are differences of degrees.23
These statements indicate that although the existence of things
is bestowed by God, it nevertheless is real in its own right and
not merely a chimera. Like a gift, it really belongs to the
recipient though it originates from the wealth and bounty of
another. Here again, we see the commitment to ontological
pluralism re-enforced since from this perspective, the reality of
different grades of being are guaranteed by God’s perfections.
The Creator always had a creation; the rays have always
shone and gleamed from the reality of the sun, for
without the rays the sun would be opaque darkness. The
names and attributes of God require the existence of
beings, and the Eternal Bounty does not cease. If it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
were to, it would be contrary to the perfections of
God.24
Pluralism is guaranteed because the “names and attributes of
God require the existence of beings,” i.e. require the existence
of beings genuinely different from God. The fact that God is
the origin of this difference does not make it any less real.
4. Distinctions of Being and Power
According to SAQ, the distinctions between the various
kinds of being are based on differences in powers or ability.
For example, “The vegetable spirit is the power of growth …
[t]he animal spirit is the power of all the senses”25 and “human
spirit which distinguishes man from the animal is the rational
soul”26 which
embraces all beings, and as far as human ability
permits discovers the realities of things and becomes
cognizant of their peculiarities and effects, and of the
qualities and properties of beings.27
In other words, ontological differences in the degrees of
being are reflected in the various capacities and powers with
which each kind of being is gifted. Each station includes the
powers possessed by the preceding station and adds a new
power as illustrated by `Abdu’l-Bahá’s assertion.
As well as having the perfections of the mineral, of the
vegetable and of the animal, he [man] also possesses an
especial excellence which the other beings are without —
that is, the intellectual perfections.28
Also,
there is no doubt that from its effects you prove that
in the animal there is a power which is not in the plant,
and this is the power of the senses — that is to say,
sight, hearing and also other powers; from these you
infer that there is an animal spirit. In the same way,
from the proofs and signs we have mentioned, we argue
that there is a human spirit. Since in the animal there
are signs which are not in the plant, you say this power
of sensation is a property of the animal spirit; you also
see in man signs, powers and perfections which do not
exist in the animal; therefore, you infer that there is a
power in him which the animal is without.29

Some Answered Questions
In other words, the degree of being possessed by an entity
manifests itself in the kind of powers and capacities it has. We
shall have more to say about this in our discussion of the
essences of things. For now, suffice it to note that this image
of successively more inclusive levels of being establishes the
concept of creation as having an underlying order, of being a
hierarchy of successively more expansive capacities which
ultimately ends or finds its origin in God. In this way, the
cosmic order itself becomes evidence for God’s existence.
Finally, it should be noted that this cosmic order reinforces the
pluralist ontology exemplified by SAQ because it shows the
existence of different kinds of being.
It is also worth noting that the terms ‘being’ or ‘existence’
cannot be applied univocally to God and His creation, i.e. they
do not have exactly the same meaning in each case. Indeed, the
‘being’ of God and man are so dissimilar that there is a
difference of kind between them insofar as God is non-
contingent and independent and man is not. Consequently, in
SAQ the concepts of ‘being’ or ‘existence’ are applied in an
equivocal manner to God and man; there is some analogous
similarity insofar as in both Creator and creatures, the word
‘existence’ distinguishes them from ‘non-existence’ but the
manner or mode of this existence is radically different in each
case. This is important to keep in mind because it is one of the
reasons for saying that God is essentially unknowable to
humankind.
5. Ontological Hierarchism
The third consequence that follows from the teaching that all
things have various degrees of being is the establishment of an
ontological hierarchy with God’s absolutely independent, non-
contingent and incomprehensible being at the top and matter
at the bottom. All beings between have existence “in their own
degree,”30 i.e. their own place in this universal hierarchy of
being:
the beings, whether great or small, are connected with
one another by the perfect wisdom of God, and affect
and influence one another. If it were not so, in the
universal system and the general arrangement of
existence, there would be disorder and imperfection.
But as beings are connected one with another with the
greatest strength, they are in order in their places and
perfect.31

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Therefore, in Bahá’í ontology, ‘to be’ or ‘to exist’ means
possessing one’s own degree of reality and having one’s own
unique place in the hierarchy of being based on the degrees of
existence possessed by various kinds of things such as minerals,
plants, animals or humans. Indeed, in discussing the various
kinds of “beings which inhabit the world, whether man, animal,
vegetable, mineral,”32 `Abdu’l-Bahá says the following
all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging
to the properties of things are the causes of the
existence, development and growth of created beings.33
Our main point, of course, is that `Abdu’l-Bahá’s image of a
chain or order made up of different kinds of beings can be
viewed as support for the underlying concept of an ontological
hierarchy in SAQ. Just as a chain needs links in different
positions, so creation requites higher and lower degrees of
being with the inevitable result that “as the degrees of existence
are different and various, some beings are higher in the scale
than others.”34 The mineral, plant and animal are of a lower
degree than man, whom God “selected for the highest degree,”35
though, of course, “material beings are not despised, judged
and held responsible for their own degree and station.”36 This
hierarchy of being is also reflected in the differences among
humankind, among whom there may be a “difference of station
… [which] is not blameworthy.”37 This station, just like the
station of minerals, plants and animals is given and is not
alterable by our action. In contrast, what can be affected by
our actions are the “difference of faith and assurance”38 and
therefore, “the loss of these is blameworthy.”39 SAQ adds,
“man is praiseworthy and acceptable in his station, yet as he is
deprived of the perfections of that degree, he will become a
source of imperfections, for which he is held responsible.”40
Furthermore, no being has the right to complain of the
station or degree of being into which we have been placed.
the mineral, has no right to complain, saying, “O God,
why have You not given me the vegetable perfections?”
In the same way, the plant has no right to complain
that it has been deprived of the perfections of the
animal world …No, all these things are perfect in their
own degree, and they must strive after the perfections
of their own degree. The inferior beings, as we have
said, have neither the right to, nor the fitness for, the

Some Answered Questions
states of the superior perfections. No, their progress
must be in their own state.41
It should be immediately noted that “inferior” here does not
mean inferior in value but less comprehensive in powers, as for
example, the mineral lacks of powers of growth or the plant,
and the plant lacks the powers of movement of the animal.
However, all are “prefect in their own degree.” The idea that
differences in degree do not imply differences in valuation is
evident, for example, in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s discussion of the
various characters of human beings.
Hence it is clear that in the original nature there exists
a difference of degree and varieties of worthiness and
capacity. This difference does not imply good or evil
but is simply a difference of degree. One has the highest
degree, another has the medium degree, and another the
lowest degree.42
No moral evaluation is associated with any degree of being
in and of itself. To assert otherwise would be tantamount to
claiming that creation has inherent imperfections — a claim
which impugn the “Divinity Who has organized this infinite
universe in the most perfect form, and its innumerable
inhabitants with absolute system, strength and perfection.”43
Such imperfection is not conceivable from God.
The concept of ontological hierarchy also appears in the
following:
this limitless universe is like the human body, all the
members of which are connected and linked with one
another with the greatest strength. How much the
organs, the members and the parts of the body of man
are intermingled and connected for mutual aid and
help, and how much they influence one another! In the
same way, the parts of this infinite universe have their
members and elements connected with one another,
and influence one another spiritually and materially.44
Here, too, we observe not just the idea of mutual
connection and inter-action at work, but also the idea of
hierarchy as indicated in the simile associating the universe and
“the human body,” i.e. a hierarchically structured organism in
which everything is interconnected. In this passage, `Abdu’l-
Bahá also alludes to the idea that the universe functions like an
organism and is not merely an unorganised collection or

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
aggregate of isolated individual parts working in isolation.
Instead, they are all parts working with an organised whole for
their own well-being and for the well-being of the whole. This
vision lays the ontological foundation for the Bahá’í social
vision of each person functioning as part of an organic
community for mutual benefit in a balance of interests
between part and whole.
6. Hierarchy After Death
The hierarchical nature of existence is also continues in life
after death. Punishment consists of “falling into the lowest
degrees of existence”45 where “He who is deprived of these
divine favours, although he continues after death, is considered
as dead by the people of truth.”46 The same idea is at work in
the following statement:
In the same way, the souls who are veiled from God,
although they exist in this world and in the world after
death, are, in comparison with the holy existence of the
children of the Kingdom of God, nonexisting and
separated from God.47
Here, too, `Abdu’l-Bahá makes clear that the conduct of our
lives determines our degree of existence in the next life; in
comparison to those who receive God’s favours those who do
not are as “dead” or “nonexisting” — just as, analogously,
creation has no existence compared to the absolute existence of
God. This ontological hierarchy also lays the foundation for
the epistemological principle that “the difference of conditions
in the world of beings is an obstacle to comprehension,”48
which is to say, that the lower degrees of being cannot
comprehend the higher. Humankind, for example, cannot
comprehend the Essence of God because our degree of being is
too low and God is too different from us. We shall explore this
further in our discussion of the epistemology inherent in SAQ.
It is important to emphasise that these statements about a
chain of being refer to the ontological nature of different kinds
of beings — “man, animal, vegetable, mineral”49 — and are not
statements about the value of these kinds of beings; no kind of
being is devalued, as SAQ makes clear by referring to their
“reciprocal help, assistance and interaction.” All beings in all
stations play a necessary part in the cosmic process, though
these parts are very different. In short, the ontological
hierarchy does not of itself imply inherent unimportance of

Some Answered Questions
any station. As noted above, “all beings” take part in the
cosmic process of influencing and being influenced.
7. Kinds and their Perfections
As indicated each link in the chain, each degree or station of
being is necessary:
Know that the order and the perfection of the whole
universe require that existence should appear in
numberless forms. For existing beings could not be
embodied in only one degree, one station, one kind,
one species and one class; undoubtedly, the difference
of degrees and distinction of forms, and the variety of
genus and species, are necessary — that is to say, the
degree of mineral, vegetable, animal substances, and of
man, are inevitable; for the world could not be
arranged, adorned, organized and perfected with man
alone.50
Here we find an unmistakeable proof that all the various kinds
of being are necessary for the perfection of the created
universe. We also find in this statement an indication that
SAQ accepts the principle of plenitude, i.e. the belief that all
possible forms of being will be actualized at some time and in
some way. That is why `Abdu’l-Bahá’ says that “the whole
universe require[s] that existence should appear in numberless
forms.” These forms are numberless because degrees of being
are numberless, though, of course, they may be divided into
groups or kinds. They are all needed for the universe to achieve
its evolutionary perfection.
8. A Dynamic Ontology
The fact that each thing has particular degree of being
suggests that all things must strive for the perfections
appropriate to their kinds, or for “their own degree.” These
perfections differ: the vegetable world finds perfection or
purpose in growth and supporting animal and human life51; the
animal finds perfections in achieving a comfortable physical
existence and in supporting human life; finally, the perfection
of the human world is to attain “the good attributes and
virtues which are the adornments of his reality.”52 Each station
or place in the hierarchy of being has its own characteristics
and its own perfections.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
We should also note that `Abdu’l-Bahá’s concept of this
chain or hierarchical order of being is dynamic insofar as
“reciprocal help, assistance and interaction”53 is concerned.
Indeed, SAQ asserts unequivocably the general principle that
all existence is dynamic:
Know that nothing which exists remains in a state of
repose — that is to say, all things are in motion.
Everything is either growing or declining; all things are
either coming from nonexistence into being, or going
from existence into nonexistence.54
The exact nature of this dynamism is not only motion,
coming into existence, growth, decline and going out if
existence but also either direct and/or indirect involvement in
the existence of other beings. According to SAQ “every being
universally acts upon other beings, either absolutely or through
association.”55 ‘To be,’ therefore, not only means that a thing
has the principle or foundation of its existence “in itself” but
also means that ‘to be’ involves an active relationship with
other beings, i.e. to influence and to be influenced, to be active
and receptive. This on-going interaction among things means
that all beings communicate their existence and the particular
nature of their existence to the world around them; they ‘share’
themselves as part of a cosmic community of such ‘sharing’ or
self-communication. In creation, existence is relational or
social and this fundamental fact, which encompasses all
created reality, provides the ontological foundation for Bahá’í
social philosophy. To keep the relational aspects of human
existence in good order is precisely one of the tasks of the
Manifestations.
9. A Nested Hierarchy
The
foregoing
considerations
strongly
suggest
the
conclusion that according to SAQ, creation is not an
ontological flatland in which all things possess the same degree
and manner of existence. In other words, existence is arranged
in a successively transcendent levels of reality, with successively
higher degrees of being, until we come to God Whose being is
of another kind completely. From the perspective of the degrees
of being, creation is not arranged on egalitarian principles
with each kind of thing possessing the same degree. Of course,
as seen above, from the perspective of valuation all things have
an equally necessary part in the cosmic process although their
function and place in the hierarchy of being differs.

Some Answered Questions
The kind of hierarchy observed in SAQ is a nested hierarchy
i.e. hierarchy in which higher levels contain lower levels. This is
evident in the statement that
the Divine Essence surrounds all things. Verily, that
which surrounds is greater than the surrounded, and
the surrounded cannot contain that by which it is
surrounded, nor comprehend its reality.56
Elsewhere He says, “the Essence of Unity surrounds all and is
not surrounded.”57 The same situation holds true in regards to
the Manifestations: “the Sanctified Realities, the supreme
Manifestations of God surround the essence and qualities of
the creatures, transcend and contain existing realities.”58 This
is also true of humankind:
The most noble being on earth is man. He embraces the
animal, vegetable and mineral kingdoms — that is to
say, these conditions are contained in him.59
To “embrace,” is, of course, to include or surround. The same
situation holds true in the case of the spirit and the human
body: “for the spirit surrounds the body,”60 and idea repeated
in the assertion that “This spirit, which in the terminology of
the philosophers is the rational soul, embraces all beings.”61
As we have observed in our discussion of the degrees of
being, each ontologically higher level includes the powers of the
lower and adds some new power, as humankind includes the
powers of vegetable growth, animal motion and sense and adds
the powers of the rational soul. Thus, it embraces or surrounds
the lower within itself but also transcends it by being more.
Therefore SAQ suggests a nested ontological hierarchy that
starts with the most inclusive and transcendent, i.e. God, and
ends with the least inclusive and least transcendent.
God
The Manifestation(s)
Humankind
Animal
Vegetable
Mineral/matter
Refinements and subdivisions may, of course be added if we
take other Writings into consideration, but SAQ itself
provides warrant for only these.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
10. Panentheism
The nested hierarchy proposed by SAQ has an important
implication for the Bahá’í concept of God. The belief that God
ontologically surrounds, embraces and includes all created
things and at the same time transcends it is one form of a
doctrine known as panentheism.62 This is not to be confused
with pantheism (or monism) according to which God and
creation are identified as one substance and the diversity of
created beings are ultimately no more than “mirages” or
illusions. (We have seen how SAQ categorically rejects this
view.63) Panentheism, however, admits that all created beings
have their own degree of existence, even though they are
contained within God.64 The universe is within God, God is
not within the universe. Thus God’s presence is everywhere in
creation but He transcends this presence and thus remains
unknowable to humankind.65 This transcendence is what
differentiates pantheism and monism from panentheism which
is distinguished from deism by the fact that it does not see God
as completely unconnected from nature or creation.
There is more here than just a change of wording.
Panentheism provides a rational alternative to pantheism and
monism which reduce the plurality of beings to the divine —
and thereby create problems for the concept of free will. How
can we be free if we are only mirages or illusions and God is the
only real source of action? It also provides a rational
alternative to the forms of theism in which God seems
disconnected from His creation and often so distantly
transcendent as to be remote and beyond interest for human
beings. In panentheism, God is both present throughout all
creation, and still personal and transcendent. Later in this
paper we shall demonstrate the effect panentheism has on the
epistemological teachings promulgated in SAQ.
11. Ontology: Causality
Causality is one of the most important issues in ontology,
one that has been controversial since Hume’s reduction of
causality to regular succession. This is most commonly
understood to mean that when we say ‘A caused B’ we really
mean ‘Whenever A occurs, B immediately follows.’ He rejects
the idea that somehow A ‘does something’ to make B happen.
There is no necessary objectively real connection between the
two; any connection is human inference or projection based on

Some Answered Questions
mental habits. Hume’s understanding of causality has gained
acceptance in light of some interpretations of quantum
mechanics, though there has recently been a revival of Bohmian,
i.e. causal interpretations.66
There is no question that SAQ rejects Hume’s analysis of
causality and accepts the traditional concept of causality
being the influence or affect of one thing or event on another.
It is confirmed through evidences and proofs that
every being universally acts upon other beings, either
absolutely
or
through
association.
Finally,
the
perfection of each individual being — that is to say, the
perfection which you now see in man or apart from
him, with regard to their atoms, members or powers —
is due to the composition of the elements, to their
measure, to their balance, to the mode of their
combination, and to mutual influence.67
Here `Abdu’l-Bahá asserts that beings affect or influence one
another and that these affects have certain results, in this case,
the “perfection” of individual beings which is “due to,” i.e.
caused by these influences among other things. Elsewhere He
says,
There is no doubt that this perfection which is in all
beings is caused by the creation of God from the
composing elements, by their appropriate mingling and
proportionate
quantities,
the
mode
of
their
composition, and the influence of other beings. For all
beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging
to the properties of things are the causes of the
existence, development and growth of created beings.68
Not only does `Abdu’l-Bahá state that “reciprocal help,
assistance and interaction” affect all beings but also, in the
image of a chain, he conveys the idea of a necessary order and
connection among these mutually interacting beings. Such
necessary connection is precisely what Hume and his followers
deny.
11.1 Four-Fold Causality
In SAQ, one of the most radical and far-reaching
statements about ontology concerns the subject of causality:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
the existence of everything depends upon four causes —
the efficient cause, the matter, the form and the final
cause. For example, this chair has a maker who is a
carpenter, a substance which is wood, a form which is
that of a chair, and a purpose which is that it is to be
used as a seat. Therefore, this chair is essentially
phenomenal, for it is preceded by a cause, and its
existence depends upon causes. This is called the
essential and really phenomenal.69
This assertion is radical because it is a revival, both in
conception
and
in
terminology,
of
Aristotle’s
much
misunderstood theory of causality as expounded in his
Physics70 and Metaphysics.71 Here, too, Aristotle discusses the
four causes, using precisely the terminology confirmed later by
`Abdu’l-Bahá: the material cause, or matter of which something
is made; the formal cause, or form which makes an entity the
particular thing it is; the efficient cause, i.e. mover or maker
which directly brings the entity into being, i.e. “brings form to
the matter”72; and the final cause, or purpose of the entire
activity of making. Not only does `Abdu’l-Bahá employ
Aristotle’s terms, He uses them exactly as Aristotle used them
in order to analyze causality and, furthermore, He uses them to
draw a general conclusion about the nature of how causality
works in creation. It is interesting to note that SAQ contains
no suggestions of the Muslim philosopher Ibn Sina’s four
subspecies of the efficient cause.73
Before proceeding, it is important to clarify exactly what
Aristotle means by four-fold causality lest we entrap ourselves
in philosophical misunderstandings that have dogged science
and philosophy since the time of Descartes and Galileo. To
produce any kind of real change in something, there must be
matter or what `Abdu’l-Bahá calls “substance”74 because there
must be something in which the change happens. There must
also be a form from which the change begins and to which it
proceeds; in the case of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s example, we have the
substance in the form of wood being changed into a substance
in the form of a chair. There must also be an efficient cause
which initiates the change when a new form emerges from an
old one, as the chair ‘emerges’ from the block of wood by way
of the carpenter’s action. Finally, there is the final cause or
purpose which determines how the efficient cause will act, i.e.
whether it will act one way or another depending on what is
compatible with the goal. All four of these causes must be
present for any change to occur. It should be noted that in

Some Answered Questions
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s illustration, the final cause is in the mind of the
carpenter, i.e. is extrinsic to the material and substantial
causes.
This fact leads to a major complaint about four-fold
causality, namely, that it is anthropomorphic, applies to
conscious and deliberative human actions, but does not apply
to natural processes. Indeed, since the time of Descartes and
Galileo, accepting final causality has been regarded as an
identifying feature of unscientific thinking. Nature, it is said,
does not operate with a purpose towards final goals. Only
higher animals and humans can conceive of objectives to work
for, but the rest of nature certainly does not. Therefore,
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s use of four-fold causality does not harmonize
with the accepted science of the last four centuries.
Unfortunately, as numerous experts on Aristotle have pointed
out, this view is predicated on Descartes’ and others’
misunderstanding of Aristotle.
The
problem
with
Descartes’
and
all
subsequent
misinterpretations of final causality is that they assume that
Aristotle meant the term in the sense of an extrinsic conscious,
deliberative finality even in the case of natural processes.
However, Aristotle never thought that such an extrinsic
deliberative cause was at work in all changes. Such is obviously
not the case in the growth of a plant, or the digestive process,
but because there is no extrinsic and conscious final cause at
work does not logically mean that there is not mean there is no
final cause at all. As Aristotle writes, “It is absurd to suppose
that purpose is not present because we do not observe the
[conscious] agent deliberating.”75 He was clearly aware that in
natural processes, we see no such extrinsic agent guiding the
changes. According to Aristotle, in natural processes “the form
[formal cause], the mover [the efficient cause], ‘that for the
sake of which’ [the final cause] … often coincide.”76 In other
words, the efficient cause or mover, the final cause and the
formal cause may be one, i.e. three principles operating at
once, which is to say, that the final cause may be intrinsic to
the process of change. That is why John Wild, a neo-
Aristotelian, says that “the only final cause in subhuman
processes is the natural form,”77 a view echoed by Aristotle
expert, Abraham Edel: “Thus in nature the final cause and
formal causes are one.”78The form at whatever stage of
development it may be, limits the actions of the efficient cause,
and these successive limitations in turn, effectively close and
open various paths of development, thereby leading to a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
particular result. As Aristotle scholar Henry B. Veatch points
out that in nature,
Aristotelian final causes are no more than this: the
regular and characteristic consequences or results that
are correlated with the characteristic actions of the
various agents and efficient causes that operate in the
natural world.79
Veatch’s example is strikingly simple: we expect sunlight to
warm a window sill, we do not expect sunlight to fragment the
sill into thousands of pieces, turn it blue or to make it float in
the air and fly around like a cloud. Those are not the “regular
and characteristic” affects that the laws of physics allow
sunlight to have on window sills. Indeed, the laws of physics
clearly limit or characterize the action of energy transfer that
we observe and this characterization or limitation is what
Aristotle means by ‘final cause’ in regards to non-human
nature. As W. Norris Clarke, S.J. points out, this means that
the “final causality is necessarily inherent in every exercise of
efficient causality.”80 This final cause must be inherent in every
efficient cause because
[i]f the efficient cause at the moment its productive
action is not interiorly [inherently] determined or
focused towards producing this effect rather than
that, then there is no sufficient reason why it should
produce this one rather than that.81
Efficient causes always lead to particular effects, and if
there is no reason why an efficient cause should produce one or
another effect, then any effect might follow: a window sill
might flight after being touched by sunlight. However, we
know that efficient causes do not produce random results, but
rather particular results on a regular basis according to the
laws of nature as described by physics and chemistry. “This
inner determination of the causal agent [efficient cause]
towards
the
effect-to-be
produced
is
precisely
final
causation.”82 In nature, the efficient cause and the final cause
are unified because the efficient causes obey the laws of nature,
i.e. fall within the limits imposed by these laws and this
conformity to law shapes the outcome. Because the final cause
may be implicit in the formal and efficient causes, we cannot
simply avoid or side-step the issue of final causes.

Some Answered Questions
11.2 Consequences of Four-Fold Causality
What does `Abdu’l-Bahá’s acceptance of Aristotle’s four-
fold causality mean for our understanding of the philosophical
positions inherent in SAQ? The first and most obvious effect
is that if understood correctly, four-fold causality and
particularly final causality do not place religion in conflict
with science which rejects the notion that subhuman processes
are shaped by deliberately formulated goals extrinsic to the
processes themselves. While processes involving human
intervention are guided by such consciously developed goals,
natural processes are not. However, nowhere does Aristotle say
that final goals must be always be conscious and deliberative,
and indeed, as we have seen in Physics, he explicitly denies that
they are.
The concept of final goals only becomes problematical when
it is misunderstood anthropomorphically as a consciously
intentional, extrinsically determined goal. However, as shown
above, this is not what Aristotle promulgated. Therefore,
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s acceptance of final causes does not create
disharmony with science once Aristotle’s teaching is correctly
understood.
After
the
long-term
and
widespread
misrepresentations (originating with Bacon, Descartes and
Spinoza) of Aristotle’s doctrine, it will, unfortunately, be a
difficult
struggle
to
overcome
deeply
entrenched
misinterpretations of Aristotle.
Four-fold causality also provides us with the intellectual
tools by which to analyse and explain all aspects of reality
except God and the Manifestations Who are not subject to
such analysis. In other words, four-fold causality is a
particular way of understanding reality and is, therefore, an
embryonic
ontological
world-view
with
all
kinds
of
implications for various human endeavours.
12. Teleology
The second conclusion we may draw from `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
acceptance of four-fold causality is that in Bahá’í ontology,
reality is teleological, i.e. informed or guided in its processes
by intrinsic and/or extrinsic final causes. The ubiquity of final
causes means that creation is not random or anarchic but
rather law abiding and organised. On this topic, `Abdu’l-Bahá
states regarding nature,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
This composition and arrangement, through the
wisdom of God and His preexistent might, were
produced from one natural organization, which was
composed and combined with the greatest strength,
conformable to wisdom, and according to a universal
law. From this it is evident that it is the creation of
God, and is not a fortuitous composition and
arrangement.83
If a series of events is not fortuitous or accidental, then some
principle of order or lawfulness must be at work in nature
either extrinsically or intrinsically or both to shape events and
their consequences. If there were no ordering principle or
guiding law, then any results might follow an action.
Aristotle’s four-fold causality is simply a philosophical
explanation of why this does not happen, i.e. why results are
regular unless disturbed by other extraneous factors. Hence,
order, pattern i.e. organisation emerge from the action of
intrinsic final causes (and thus establish the very conditions
for the existence of science).
13. Intelligent Design
However, `Abdu’l-Bahá goes much further than the assertion
of order, pattern and organisation. Nature, He says,
is
subjected
to
an
absolute
organization,
to
determined laws, to a complete order and a finished
design, from which it will never depart — to such a
degree, indeed, that if you look carefully and with keen
sight, from the smallest invisible atom up to such large
bodies of the world of existence as the globe of the sun
or the other great stars and luminous spheres, whether
you regard their arrangement, their composition, their
form or their movement, you will find that all are in the
highest degree of organization and are under one law
from which they will never depart.84
In other words, nature as a whole shows “finished design,” i.e.
is not “a fortuitous composition and arrangement”85 — phrases
suggesting not only that existence is organised and lawful, but
more strongly, that existence is characterised by a design. This,
of course, brings up a sensitive question: does SAQ
promulgate a variation of intelligent design theory? From these
statements, and others we shall examine later, it is clear that the
answer is affirmative, though the variation of intelligent design

Some Answered Questions
in SAQ is not that of Biblical literalism. If the natural world is
not “a fortuitous composition and arrangement,” if it is
“conformable to wisdom”86 and if it is “subjected to an
absolute organization, to determined laws, to a complete order
and a finished design,”87 then it is clear that nature is not a
result of undirected accidents and random events but of some
ordering principle however complex its workings may be. This
design requires the existence of an extrinsic consciously
deliberative final cause. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
the least change produced in the form of the smallest
thing proves the existence of a creator: then can this
great universe, which is endless, be self-created and
come into existence from the action of matter and the
elements? How self-evidently wrong is such a
supposition!88
Here, too, the subject of change and by implication,
causality, emerges, since without the guidance of final
causality inherent in the efficient and formal causes of change,
change would be undirected and accidental. However,
according to `Abdu’l-Bahá, this change is so far from being
random that it “proves the existence of a creator,” i.e., an
ultimate source of the laws manifest in the changing process.
The universe cannot have come into existence only “from the
action of matter and the elements” because this matter requires
form in order to be the particular kind of matter it is and act
in the particular way it does — and form, as Aristotle points
out, intrinsically includes final causality in natural processes.
This intrinsic form of final causality of course leads to the
question about the source of order and lawfulness, i.e., to
God. It is worth noting how hylomorphism (see below) is
implicitly assumed in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s argument as well as His
explicit endorsement of the foundational principle of
intelligent design, namely that we can legitimately reason our
way from events in nature to the existence of “a creator.”89 In
other words, we have moved from a final cause intrinsic to
natural processes to an extrinsic, deliberative and conscious
final cause. That `Abdu’l-Bahá regards such a reasoning process
as correct is rhetorically shown by His categorical rejection of
the contrary view: “How self-evidently wrong is such a
supposition!” Even though some Bahá’ís may find this
association with some form of intelligent design theory
uncomfortable, intelligent design, albeit not in its Biblically
literal version, is a fact of Bahá’í ontology in SAQ.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
However, this does not necessarily cause a conflict with
science insofar as science concerns itself with intrinsic final
causality as evident in the operation of empirically verifiable
natural laws, whereas religion’s concern is extrinsic final
causality as known through revelation and rational reflection.
Each explores aspects of final causality appropriate to its
methods. If conflict develops, it is a consequence of choosing
to let this happen.
14. Hylomorphism
The acceptance of four-fold causality is an important
contact point between SAQ and the philosophical tradition
begun by Plato, Aristotle and Plotinus (the Athenian tradition)
and continued in various forms in the modern world. This
would be even more apparent if we were to embark on a
detailed analysis of what is entailed in four-fold causality, for
example the implication that any entity is made up of matter
(as in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s example) and form, the latter being
provided by the carpenter in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s illustration. SAQ
itself makes a passing reference to this view, stating, “The sun
is born from substance and form, which can be compared to
father and mother.”90 SAQ then proceeds to say that darkness,
which, as an absence of light has no existence in itself, i.e. “has
neither substance nor form, neither father nor mother, and it is
absolute imperfection.”91 This suggests that in order for
entities to exist requires substance or matter and form, or to
put it another way, all things existing in nature are made of
substance and form.
Those familiar with the history of western philosophy will,
of course, recognise the doctrine of hylomorphism which
asserts that all sensible things are exemplify a union of matter
and a form that makes it a certain kind of thing.92 The
hylomorphic theme is not explicitly developed in SAQ, but the
statement that “the existence of everything depends upon four
causes”93 strongly suggests its universal applicability in our
understanding of reality and thus creates an unmistakeable
contact point with the Athenian tradition both in its
European and its Muslim branches as seen in the philosophy of
Aquinas and such Muslim philosophers as Ibn Sina and Ibn
Rushd.

Some Answered Questions
15. An Application of Four-Fold Causality
In order to understand the versatility of four-fold causality
as an analytical tool, we shall briefly outline how it may be used
in the analysis of society or any other community. The matter
or material cause of a society are the individuals who make up
the society or group. The final cause (which may or may not be
explicitly conscious in all members) is the common good for
which the individuals work, either deliberatively or though
being enlisted by the rules, customs and trends in that society.
For example, the final cause of Communist society was to
establish the dictatorship of the proletariat as a necessary step
to the abolition of all rulers. The formal cause of a society is
made up of the rules, duties, obligations, rights and offices
required to achieve the common good. These give society its
particular form or shape. The efficient cause is the people’s
willingness to achieve the common good, their willingness to
abide by the rules and fulfill their obligations, i.e. the love of
the common good. For a society or community to be healthy
requires that all of these four causes are working appropriately.
If, for example, a community loses sight of its final cause i.e.
the common good towards which it is dedicated, it will soon
lose its way and dissolve into rampant individualism where the
pursuit of the good of individual persons dominates lives.
16. Platonic Trends in SAQ
Another contact point with the Athenian tradition is the
suggestion scattered throughout SAQ that the world in which
we live is or will be mirror of a superior, spiritual world. Such a
view is usually described as Platonic, i.e. reminiscent of Plato’s
teaching that the world is only a shadow, imitation, reflection
or image of the superior real world of ideas. These shadows or
reflections are embodied in the ever-changing world of matter.
For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “the earth is the mirror of the
Kingdom; the material world corresponds to the spiritual
world.”94 It is “the outward expression of the inward,”95 i.e. the
material expression of the spiritual or the expression of the
“spiritual world” in the material realm. Such views are certainly
Platonic in nature insofar as they posit a material world which
is a counterpart or copy of a spiritual or non-material model.
The Kingdom, according to `Abdu’l-Bahá, “is not a material
place; it is sanctified from time and place. It is a spiritual
world, a divine world … it is freed from body and that which is
corporeal.”96 Unfortunately, this material world is all-to-often

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
a distorted reflection of the spiritual world, a condition that
the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is intended to remedy: “The world
will become the mirror of the Heavenly kingdom.”97 Here, too,
the Platonic theme is evident. Platonism also has applications
for they key doctrine of progressive revelation and ethics.
`Abdu’l-Bahá says, “what is meant by the term Holy of Holies is
that spiritual Law which will never be modified, altered or
abrogated; and the Holy City means the material Law which
may be abrogated.”98 The “material Law” is an earthly image of
the eternally unchanging “spiritual Law” which is reflected in
varying material conditions. In this case, Plato’s Ideas — such
as the Idea of the perfect horse — has been transferred into
ethics; instead of perfect Ideas of things, we have perfect Ideas
of eternal ethical principles which we try to imitate or reflect as
best we can.
If the material world reflects or corresponds to the spiritual
world, one of the consequences is that reality is structured as a
series of correspondences between the spiritual and the
material. This is illustrated by the statement that “The Sun of
Reality”, like the material sun, has numerous rising and
dawning places.”99 As we shall see in the section on
epistemology,
these
correspondences
have
far-reaching
consequences for the epistemology explicitly and implicitly
present in SAQ. It means, for example, that we cannot
understand the phenomena of material reality fully without
taking into account what has been revealed about their
spiritual counterparts. This is most readily illustrated in the
case of human nature which cannot be properly understood
only on the basis of material studies but must also take into
consideration the divine ideal of which actually existing man is
a reflection, image or shadow.
17. The Reality of Universals
The subject of Platonism raises another important
ontological question for SAQ, namely, does SAQ recognise
the reality or existence of at least some universals? Universals
are the
supposed referents of general terms like ‘red’, ‘table,
‘tree, understood as entities distinct from any of the
particular things described by those terms.100
For example, ‘dog’ is a universal but ‘Otto’ is a particular
example or instantiation of this universal. All individual dogs

Some Answered Questions
have certain characteristics in common that make them
members of the universal class ‘dog.’ There are three possible
viewpoints (and variations thereof) about universals. One is
extreme realism espoused by Plato, which holds that universals
i.e. Ideas, are real entities in themselves in “a non-spatio-
temporal existence distinct and separable”101 from all
particular instantiations. The second is moderate realism held
by Aristotle which maintains that universals are real but only
in their individual instantiations. The human mind abstracts
them — but it abstracts from something real in the individuals.
The third view is nominalism, “the view that things
denominated by the same term share nothing in common except
that fact.”102 In other words, there are no such things as
universals and all so-called universal terms are arbitrary
constructions.
The reason this ontological issue is so important well beyond
its technical philosophic aspects and receives considerable
attention is that it has an enormous impact on personal and
social ethics, psychology, philosophical anthropology as well as
positive and natural law. For example, it concerns whether or
not there is such a thing as human nature, what it is and what
role is its role in individual and social ethics. Does human
nature establish norms in behavior and ethics? Postmodernism
and some forms of existentialism, adopt the nominalist view
and deny that any such thing as human nature exists; in their
view, it is nothing short of totalitarian to establish ethics or
laws on the basis of standards based on so-called human
nature. Only individuals are real and any concepts of universal
essences, natures or attributes are constructions of fictions
imposed upon individuals. Perhaps Sartre sums up this
attitude best when he writes, “As we have seen, for human
reality, to be is to choose oneself; nothing comes from the
outside or from within which it can receive or accept.”103 There
is no ‘pre-made’ human nature or any other nature, there are
only individuals making themselves.
SAQ rejects the nominalist position. `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
spirit is universally divided into five categories: the
vegetable spirit, the animal spirit, the human spirit, the
spirit of faith, and the Holy Spirit.
The vegetable spirit is the power of growth which is
brought about in the seed through the influence of
other existences.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
The animal spirit is the power of all the senses, which is
realized from the composition and mingling of
elements …
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the
animal is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one
thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the
philosophers is the rational soul, embraces all beings,
and as far as human ability permits discovers the
realities of things and becomes cognizant of their
peculiarities and effects, and of the qualities and
properties of beings. But the human spirit, unless
assisted by the spirit of faith, does not become
acquainted with the divine secrets and the heavenly
realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear,
polished and brilliant, is still in need of light. Until a
ray of the sun reflects upon it, it cannot discover the
heavenly secrets.104
Here we have a virtually self-evident demonstration of belief
in universal attributes and powers that define different kinds,
species or essential; attributes things. These essential attributes
and powers are present in and identify all members of a kind as
vegetable, animal or human. Germane to our discussion is
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s categorical declaration about the spirit being
“universally divided into five categories,” indicating that this
division is an objective fact of creation or nature and not
merely a product of human intellectual construction. They are
simply given facts we have to work with as we explore the
world. The “five categories”105 are real — manifested in
differences of composition and capacity — and are not merely
arbitrary man-made contrivances. Their essential attributes
always appear in individuals and are known by the human
mind, but they have an objective basis in reality.
The reality of universals is emphasised from another
perspective when `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Know that the order and the perfection of the whole
universe require that existence should appear in
numberless forms. For existing beings could not be
embodied in only one degree, one station, one kind,
one species and one class; undoubtedly, the difference
of degrees and distinction of forms, and the variety of
genus and species, are necessary — that is to say, the

Some Answered Questions
degree of mineral, vegetable, animal substances, and of
man, are inevitable; for the world could not be
arranged, adorned, organized and perfected with man
alone. In the same way, with only animals, only plants
or only minerals, this world could not show forth
beautiful scenery, exact organization and exquisite
adornment. Without doubt it is because of the
varieties of degrees, stations, species and classes that
existence
becomes
resplendent
with
utmost
perfection.106
Here the issue of universals is taken up from the perspective
of the ontological principles of plenitude and perfection. The
principle of plenitude and perfection as given in this quotation
asserts that for creation to be perfect (How could it not be
given its origin in God?) requires diversity, i.e. more than “one
degree, one station, one kind, one species and one class.”
Degrees, stations, kinds, species and classes are all references to
universals, i.e. to terms that refer to types of beings, to
categories or collectives united by common essential
attributes. The fact that kinds are considered necessary for the
perfection of God’s creation demonstrates that they are real
and not mere human constructions of fictions.
A third indicator that Bahá’í ontology exemplifies some
form of realism in regards to universals are `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statements about the evolution of humankind:
But from the beginning of man’s existence he is a
distinct species … But even when in the womb of the
mother and in this strange form, entirely different
from his present form and figure, he is the embryo of
the superior species … For the proof of the originality
of the human species, and of the permanency of the
nature of man, is clear and evident.107
Throughout His discussion of the inalterability of human
nature, He makes clear that humankind represents a different
kind of species from minerals, plants and animals. References
to humankind’s existence as a distinct species with
characteristic capacities are also fund in his discussion of life
after death:
When we consider beings with the seeing eye, we
observe that they are limited to three sorts — that is to
say, as a whole they are either mineral, vegetable or
animal, each of these three classes containing species.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Man is the highest species because he is the possessor of
the perfections of all the classes — that is, he has a body
which grows and which feels. As well as having the
perfections of the mineral, of the vegetable and of the
animal, he also possesses an especial excellence which
the other beings are without — that is, the intellectual
perfections. Therefore, man is the most noble of
beings.108
These statements are quite categorical about the objective
reality of these different “sorts” or “classes” and their various
species. Humankind’s differences from the others and its
position as the peak of this hierarchy are also presented as facts
of creation or nature and not merely as artefacts of human
subjectivity. They do not exist merely as thoughts without any
connection to reality.
Since classes, categories and species are ontologically real, it
remains to determine whether or not SAQ indicates if they
exist in a Platonic or Aristotelian manner. If they exist
Platonically, these universals exist objectively as part of a non-
spatio-temporal realm separate from the ever-changing material
world. If their existence is Aristotelian they exist objectively
but only in particular instantiations from which our ideas of
them are abstracted by the human mind.
This paper contends that on the issue of universals, the
interpretation most consistent with SAQ (and the Writings in
general) is the Platonic interpretation although it is not
developed in any great detail. In this connection, it should be
recalled that “the earth is the mirror of the Kingdom; the
material world corresponds to the spiritual world.”109 In other
words, the kinds, species and classes that exist physically on the
earth are the material reflections of their spiritual, i.e. non-
spatio-temporal counterparts. They key point is that the ideal
spiritual prototypes exist in the “Kingdom” and these are
reflected over time. A similar concept is found in the following
statement:
The Prophets, on the contrary, believe that there is the
world of God, the world of the Kingdom, and the
world of Creation: three things. The first emanation
from God is the bounty of the Kingdom, which
emanates and is reflected in the reality of the
creatures.110

Some Answered Questions
Here, too, `Abdu’l-Bahá shows that the “world of Creation”
reflects of corresponds to the “world of the Kingdom,” which
thereby functions as an ideal Platonic realm to the former. It
is, of course, also possible to argue that these universals, the
kinds, classes or species exist as ideas in the “First Mind”111 and
then gradually actualised in the evolution of the material world.
Both of these alternatives would be in harmony with `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s statements that creation exemplifies design i.e.
something in which there is conscious deliberation and
forethought. That these universals may somehow pre-exist their
appearance in the material realm is suggested by the following
quote:
the terrestrial globe from the beginning was created
with all its elements, substances, minerals, atoms and
organisms; but these only appeared by degrees: first the
mineral, then the plant, afterward the animal, and
finally man. But from the first these kinds and species
existed, but were undeveloped in the terrestrial globe,
and then appeared only gradually. For the supreme
organization of God, and the universal natural system,
surround all beings, and all are subject to this rule.112
In other words, the earth was created “from the beginning”
with all its potential beings and species within it. This implies
forethought and ideas for “these kinds and species” insofar as
specific plans are necessary to make such detailed provisions
for the future. The evidence provided by SAQ suggests that
such ‘Platonic’ ideas or models were present in the Kingdom or
the “First Mind” before the earth was created or any of them
had been turned into materially manifest realities.
18. Reflection and Participation
The ‘Platonic’ affinities in SAQ are also strengthened by the
teaching that all existing beings and kinds reflect one or more
of the names of God. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá,
The world, indeed each existing being, proclaims to us
one of the names of God, but the reality of man is the
collective reality, the general reality, and is the center
where the glory of all the perfections of God shine
forth.113
Elsewhere He states,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Without doubt each being is the center of the shining
forth of the glory of God — that is to say, the
perfections of God appear from it and are resplendent
in it … The world, indeed each existing being,
proclaims to us one of the names of God, but the
reality of man is the collective reality, the general
reality, and is the center where the glory of all the
perfections of God shine forth.114
He also says, “all beings express something and partake of
some ray and portion of this [divine] light.”115 These
quotations assert that every being has within itself a reflection
of one or more of the names of God which is to say that every
being has a direct connection with the ideal or spiritual power
of the names of God. As a species human kind is distinguished
from other species because we reflect or participate in all of the
names of God: it is the “collective reality” which reflects or
participates in “all the perfections of God.” Other kinds,
classes or species of being only reflect one of these names.
In the language of the Athenian tradition in philosophy, the
reflection of one of God’s names in every being means that each
being ‘participates’ in the names of God, it instantiates or
exemplifies these names in its own way. Thus ‘to be’ means to
reflect one of the names of God, just as we have seen before
that ‘to be’ means to have one’s particular degree of being and
one’s appropriate place in the chain of being. In regards to
reflecting the names of God we might also say that beings
imitate the names of God in their instantiations of them, and
thus, collectively make the signs of God’s power present or
establish God’s presence in creation. This helps lay the
ontological foundations for a Bahá’í natural theology, since
such reflection, participation, imitation allows us to argue
from the created world to the Creator because “[a]ll the
creatures are evident signs of God.”116 `Abdu’l-Bahá reasons
from the created to the Creator in His various proofs of God’s
existence in SAQ. Indeed, some of His arguments such as the
argument that the creator must be more perfect than the
created — as the Kingdom is more perfect than the material
world — make no logical sense outside of a Platonic ontology in
which higher levels of being are more perfect than lower levels117
and the lower participate in the higher.
In this Platonic ontological schema, each being is also a
“pointer towards the Infinite.”118 Thus, the study of God’s
creation by the sciences takes on a religious significance

Some Answered Questions
insofar as such study will bring us closer to God — if
understood spiritually and not in strictly positivist, empiricist
and materialist terms. Such spiritual understanding of science
is justified because the material world and the metaphysical or
spiritual world are closed to each other, but inter-act through
reflection, imitation or participation. In this way, the
doctrine of reflection and participation provides an
ontological basis for the Bahá’í emphasis on science. It also lays
the ontological foundations for a Bahá’í philosophy of man or
philosophical anthropology. For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
The reflection of the divine perfections appears in the
reality of man, so he is the representative of God, the
messenger of God. If man did not exist, the universe
would be without result, for the object of existence is
the appearance of the perfections of God.119
In other words, the universe is incomplete without man, who
represents a necessary degree of perfection which gives the
universe a goal and purpose (note the teleological thinking) just
as the fruit is “is the reason”120 for the existence of the tree.
Humankind has a necessary place in the existence of the
universe which is why `Abdu’l-Bahá states, “it cannot be said
there was a time when man was not”121 and adds that the belief
that there was a time when man did not exists in some form in
the universe is “false and meaningless.”122 In short, humankind
has a cosmic role.
19. Existence and Nonexistence
In SAQ, `Abdu’l-Bahá makes a number of extremely
important and far-reaching statements about existence and
nonexistence.
The second proposition is that existence and
nonexistence are both relative. If it be said that such a
thing came into existence from nonexistence, this does
not refer to absolute nonexistence, but means that its
former condition in relation to its actual condition
was nothingness. For absolute nothingness cannot find
existence, as it has not the capacity of existence …
Though the dust — that is to say, the mineral — has
existence in its own condition, in relation to man it is
nothingness. Both exist, but the existence of dust and
mineral, in relation to man, is nonexistence and
nothingness.123

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
We have already discussed one aspect of this teaching in our
consideration of the degrees of being of different kind of
things. Our focus at this point, however, is the categorical
denial that anything can be produced or produce itself from
“absolute nothingness.”
`Abdu’l-Bahá offers two kinds of reasons why the ex nihilo
interpretation of creation is in error. The first is onto-
theological in nature i.e. bases its ontological argument on our
understanding of God’s nature. According to this view,
“absolute nothingness” cannot even theoretically exist as
implied in the doctrine that “the Eternal Bounty does not cease.
If it were to, it would be contrary to the perfections of
God.”124
Since God’s “Bounty” or emanations never stop and have
always been forthcoming, there must always have been a
creation in some form. This is reinforced by the argument that
the names and attributes of the Divinity themselves
require the existence of beings … a creator without a
creature is impossible … for all the divine names and
attributes demand the existence of beings. If we could
imagine a time when no beings existed, this
imagination would be the denial of the Divinity of God
… Therefore, as the Essence of Unity (that is, the
existence of God) is everlasting and eternal — that is to
say, it has neither beginning nor end — it is certain that
this world of existence, this endless universe, has
neither beginning nor end.125
The questions underlying this argument are, ‘How can God be
the Creator if He has no creation?’ and ‘If God has no creation,
how can He claim perfection?’ Thus, the Christian and Muslim
doctrine of creation ex nihilo contradicts the belief that God is
perfect. This issue constitutes a major difference between
Bahá’í, Muslim and Christian onto-theology.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s second reason for rejecting ex nihilo creation
is more philosophical in nature, i.e. is based on the logical
problems inherent in this concept. He says that “it is
impossible that from absolute nonexistence signs should
appear — for the signs are the consequence of an existence.”126
How could nothingness actively give a sign, i.e. take action and
communicate? What could it communicate? How could it
receive action? In order to receive, there must be a receiver,
something to receive. The whole concept dissolves into

Some Answered Questions
nonsense. Nor could “absolute nothingness” become anything
since there would not even be a capacity or potential for
something new to come into existence. Thus, `Abdu’l-Bahá
states, “Moreover, absolute nonexistence cannot become
existence. If the beings were absolutely nonexistent, existence
would not have come into being.127
Therefore, the concept of “absolute nonexistence” must be
rejected and replaced by a concept of relative nonexistence,
which is exactly what he does: “existence and nonexistence are
both relative.”128 The diverse kinds and species that exist
potentially in the earth are only relatively nonexistent, i.e. they
exist “potentially”129 like the various attributes of the plant
hidden in a seed. They exist in a hidden plane, just like the
natural powers before they are brought “out from the plane of
the invisible and the hidden into the realm of the visible”130 by
humankind.
The denial of “absolute nothingness” lays the ontological
foundation for the belief that a creation, a universe of some
kind has always existed: “the world of existence has always
been”131 and can never fall into absolute annihilation although
particular worlds may do so. There is no ontological ground in
SAQ to believe that one day God will choose to bring about the
end of the world as many Christians have interpreted Matthew
24:35-36. On the basis of SAQ, it is also possible to reject
similar interpretations of such Qu’ranic suras as 20:15.132
The denial of “absolute nothingness” also lays the
ontological foundations for the belief that whatever manifests
itself over a period of time was the result of the actualization
of potentials inherent in a being. Furthermore, it becomes the
basis for the teaching that all things have an essence and that
essences are real. Obviously, every being does not have all
potentials — the proverbial sow’s ear cannot become a silk
purse, a ski-boot cannot become an alligator. In other words,
both individual things and kinds of things have a limited array
of potentials available to them — as already seen in `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s explanations about the mineral, plant, animal and
human degrees of spirit. One aspect of essence is precisely this
limited collection of potentials which determine what kind of
thing a particular being is and what it can or cannot become.
Thus, we are led to the conclusion that the rejection of
“absolute nothingness” is the ontological foundation for the
essentialist nature of the philosophy embedded in SAQ.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
20. The Structure of Beings
Every being has a structure of actuality and potentiality, i.e.
what it is at the moment and what it could be in the future. The
actuality is what we encounter first but, nonetheless, as
`Abdu’l-Bahá informs us, every being has its potentials.
Speaking of a seed, He says, “So it is first the shoot which
appears from the seed, then the branches, leaves, blossoms and
fruits; but from the beginning of its existence all these things
are in the seed, potentially, though not apparently.”133 There is
more in the seed than what is manifest to us. The same is true
of the earth as a whole: “the terrestrial globe from the beginning
was created with all its elements, substances, minerals, atoms
and organisms; but these only appeared by degrees.”134 In other
words these beings existed potentially in the earth and gradually
were actualized. In reference to humankind, He says,
In the same way, the embryo possesses from the first all
perfections, such as the spirit, the mind, the sight, the
smell, the taste — in one word, all the powers— but they
are not visible and become so only by degrees.135
Various perfections are potentially present in the embryo.
With this teaching of the reality of potentials, SAQ aligns
itself with the Aristotelian branch of the Athenian tradition in
philosophy in which all beings are a composite of actuality and
potentials, i.e. what is manifested (actuality) and what remains
to be manifested in the future (potentiality). This is why beings
are capable of change, i.e. they still have potentials left to
actualize, and why God is changeless, i.e. He has no potentials
to actualize and is absolute actuality; He needs no additional
completion. Except for God, every being is incomplete and
requires the realization of its potentials to be complete. The
potentials inherent in every being are the reason for the active
and evolutionary nature of each being as it actualizes its innate
potentials. This, in turn, re-emphasises the dynamic and
teleological nature of all beings. Indeed, these potentials or
“perfections”136 which gradually appear show that one aspect of
a being’s development is a self-perfecting process in which it
strives to maximise its being.
Every being is also a composite of substance or essence and
accidents, qualities or attributes as shown in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement

Some Answered Questions
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the
knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge
of its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through
its qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden.137
He expresses the same idea when He says,
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends
upon the substance of the body, although, on the
contrary, the rational soul is the substance, and the
body depends upon it. If the accident — that is to say,
the body — be destroyed, the substance, the spirit,
remains.138
In this statement, the spirit is the substance, i.e. the essence
which is the basis of a thing’s existence as the kind of it is (in
this
case,
human)
and
possesses
certain
“accidental”
qualities.139 In both quotations, a being is composed of an
essence or substance as well as of particular qualities or
attributes. As the second quotation shows, some of the
attributes are “accident[s],” i.e. they are not absolutely
necessary or essential to the existence of the substance or
essence. When applied to humankind, this becomes the
ontological basis for the immortality of the soul which, being a
substance, can exist without its accidents. This leads to the
conclusion that some attributes are “accidental” and not
necessary, while others, such as immortality or rationality in
the case of humankind, are necessary or essential attributes.
They cannot be removed without changing the essence into
some other kind of being. It should be noted that here again,
SAQ analyses reality in the terms established by the Athenian
tradition, particularly by Aristotle.
In SAQ, we observe even God is discussed in these terms:
for the essential names and attributes of God are
identical with His Essence, and His Essence is above all
comprehension. If the attributes are not identical with
the Essence, there must also be a multiplicity of
preexistences, and differences between the attributes
and the Essence must also exist.140
The gist of this statement is a philosophical demonstration of
God’s unity: He is one because His Essence and His “essential
names and attributes” are identical. If they were not, then
God’s unity would be undermined by the difference between

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
God and His attributes. An additional implication of this
statement is that, unlike all other beings, God possesses no
unnecessary or accidental attributes that could be separated
from Him. All of His attributes are essential — but such is not
the case with any other kind of being all of which are made up
of both essential and accidental attributes.
Each being is also a composite of matter and form. Since we
have already touched on this in a foregoing discussion, there is
no need to repeat the relevant evidence here. Suffice it to say
that this acceptance of hylomorphism also places the
philosophy embedded in SAQ in the Athenian tradition.
21. Essence and Existence
SAQ provides reason to claim that each being is a
composite of existence and essence. We cannot imagine a being
which has pure existence but no essence. Even God, according
to SAQ, has an essence.141 The moment we enquire ‘What is it
like?’ we are already asking for its nature, its essence and
attributes. There is no such a thing as simple ‘existence’;
existence is always the existence of some particular thing. On
the other hand, just because we can imagine an essence with all
its attributes e.g. a unicorn, does not mean it actually exists.
Existence and essence are clearly two different things. In every
real being they are joined.
All other beings, as we have seen above, possess varying
degrees of existence in contrast to God’s absolute existence
and independence from all other things. In other words, they
are contingent, i.e. not necessary: it is possible to conceive of
their not existing without tangling ourselves in all kinds of
logical difficulties. As contingent, they exist only by the will of
God Who chooses to bestow existence on them but Who was
obviously under no obligation to do so. They are utterly
dependent on God for their existence and lack any capacity to
bring themselves into being.
The fact that beings are contingent means that existence is a
freely given bestowal from God Who did not have to confer it.
Therefore, it is God’s gift to give existence as a real being to a
particular essence, even though this essence could have
remained either potential or imaginary. This gift is distinct
from the gift of our particular essence. Existence and essence
are two principles that are found at work in every actually
existing being, i.e. they are not things in any material sense but

Some Answered Questions
rather requirements that must necessarily be fulfilled for any
thing to be and which can be observed in any real being.
This composition of essence and existence is worth noting
first, because it provides an ontological foundation for the
Bahá’í teaching of the contingency of all beings except God and
second, because it provides an ontological foundation for our
gratitude to God for the gift of existence. Our obligation for
gratitude is rooted in the ontology of being-in-general. As we
can see from this, our ethical relationship to God also has
ontological roots.
22. God — an Epistemological Preview
Any discussion of God in regards to SAQ (and the Bahá’í
Writings in general) must deal with the limitations on our
knowledge of God. This requires a preview of some
epistemological issues. On the subject of knowing God,
`Abdu’l-Bahá says,
the essence and the attributes of the Lord of Unity are
in the heights of sanctity, and for the minds and
understandings there is no way to approach that
position. ‘The way is closed, and seeking is
forbidden.’142
Later He adds, “the essential names and attributes of God
are identical with His Essence, and His Essence is above all
comprehension.”143
Such
strictures
raise
the
inevitable
question, ‘What, if anything, do SAQ and the Writings allow
us to say about God?’
If we analyse the first statement, it is clear that we cannot
“approach” God, i.e. discover Him directly as He is in Himself
i.e. in His essence. The same applies to His names and
attributes because God is one with these.144 In other words,
there is no direct knowledge of God because such knowledge
requires comprehension or ‘surrounding’ of the object to be
understood. In the case of God, this is impossible because
humankind lacks the capacity to ‘surround’ what is
ontologically higher.
It is evident that the human understanding is a quality
of the existence of man, and that man is a sign of God:
how can the quality of the sign surround the creator of
the sign? — that is to say, how can the understanding,
which is a quality of the existence of man, comprehend

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
God? Therefore, the Reality of the Divinity is hidden
from all comprehension, and concealed from the minds
of all men. It is absolutely impossible to ascend to that
plane. We see that everything which is lower is
powerless to comprehend the reality of that which is
higher.145
However, SAQ (and the Writings) do not fall into the trap
of claiming that God is unknowable in any way whatever; were
that the case, we would have the problems created by a
disappearing God Whose very existence is unknowable and
ultimately irrelevant to humankind. However, SAQ provides
for knowledge of God indirectly, through the Manifestations:
all that the human reality knows, discovers and
understands of the names, the attributes and the
perfections of God refer to these Holy Manifestations.
There is no access to anything else: ‘the way is closed,
and seeking is forbidden.’146
In other words, we can know about God through the
Manifestation and we can reason about this knowledge but we
cannot know God directly without an intermediary. Indeed, all
of this knowledge about God
refer[s] to the Holy Manifestations — that is to say, all
the descriptions, the qualities, the names and the
attributes which we mention return to the Divine
Manifestations; but as no one has attained to the
reality of the Essence of Divinity…147
However, we must not make the mistake of concluding that
this limited knowledge about God, is untrue or merely a fiction
or construct. Limited and indirect knowledge about something
is not necessarily untrue or a man-made fiction, especially
when it comes from a Manifestation. Thus, we may conclude
that while we have knowledge about God via the Manifestation,
we have no direct knowledge of God as He is in Himself.
Furthermore, we may reason about God from the information
provided us by the Manifestation.
It should be noted in passing that humankind’s inability to
know God’s essence decisively negates any claims that man and
God can be ontologically united in mystic states and the
suggestion that God and creation or any part of creation can
be one. Unity with God is forbidden by the extreme ontological

Some Answered Questions
differences between the independent and the dependent and all
claims to having achieved such unity are delusions.
23. The Existence of God: The Argument from Contingency
The ontology of SAQ is premised on the existence of God
Who is the ultimate source of all beings. To support His case,
`Abdu’l-Bahá provides various proofs for the existence of God.
The first of these is a variation of the proof from contingency:
One of the proofs and demonstrations of the existence
of God is the fact that man did not create himself: nay,
his creator and designer is another than himself.148
Humankind is contingent, i.e. humankind cannot be
responsible for its existence and essence; therefore, logically, its
cause must be outside itself in something else. After all, a thing
that does not exist, cannot bring itself into existence, since to
do so would be to imply that it can act before it actually is in
existence. This is logically and physically impossible. For this
reason, human existence necessarily requires an external cause.
At this point it is important to digress briefly to note what
`Abdu’l-Bahá does not say, namely, that God is the immediate
cause for the existence of humankind. The kind of processes
studied by science may well be the immediate or proximate
causes by means of which humankind evolved but these
proximate causes do not necessarily exclude the ultimate cause
which begins and guides the evolutionary process through its
varying vicissitudes. In other words, once we distinguish
proximate from ultimate causes, there is not an inevitable
conflict with science on this issue.
From `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement we also learn that God is our
ultimate efficient cause or “creator” and our ultimate final
cause or “designer.” As the final cause, He would also be our
formal cause, i.e. the source of our form or essence as human
beings. However, He is not our material cause since God is not
the matter or substance from which we are constituted as is
asserted by pantheism and monism according to which God
and creation are ultimately one substance. Finally, it is worth
noting `Abdu’l-Bahá’s use of the term “designer” in regards to
humankind strengthens the argument that SAQ supports some
variation of Intelligent Design theory in regards to human
origins. (See the Introduction.) Humankind, and creation as a
whole, is not merely a “fortuitous composition and
arrangement.”149

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
24. The Ontological Argument
In SAQ `Abdu’l-Bahá combines the argument from
contingency with the argument of perfection when He states,
The contingent world is the source of imperfections:
God is the origin of perfections. The imperfections of
the contingent world are in themselves a proof of the
perfections of God.150
The argument from contingency was discussed above, so let us
turn our attention to the argument from perfection. It is
based on the degrees in which beings possess certain attributes.
For example, qualities like goodness and truth are found in
greater or lesser degrees in various beings. In other words, they
exist on a scale according to which some approach more closely
than others the greatest possible degree of a certain quality, i.e.
some approach perfection more closely than others. To say that
something is imperfect or approaches perfection more than
something else implies the existence of a perfect standard by
which to measure imperfection. Such a perfect standard
ultimately can only refer to God. Since we observe
imperfection around us, the perfect standard i.e. God must
exist. 151 If God, or this perfect standard did not exist, it
would not be perfect since it would lack the perfection of
existence.
`Abdu’l-Bahá makes use of this argument in SAQ, referring
to the attributes of power, knowledge and wealth, which, in
their imperfects become weakness, ignorance and poverty. The
existence of these imperfections proves that a supreme degree
of these qualities must exist, and since qualities cannot exist by
themselves they must exist in someone or something. Since
things
cannot
have
wealth,
knowledge,
goodness
or
truthfulness, these qualities must exist in someone, i.e. God:
Therefore, it becomes evident that there is an Eternal
Almighty One, Who is the possessor of all perfections,
because unless He possessed all perfections He would
be like His creation.152
When this argument is applied to ‘being’ or ‘existence,’ it is
known as the ‘ontological argument,’ first propounded by Ibn
Sina, but also by St. Anselm, Descartes, Leibniz and in our
time, Charles Hartshorne and Alvin Plantinga. This argument,
still hotly debated today, exists in various forms, one of which
is:

Some Answered Questions
1. God possesses all perfections.
2. Existence is a perfection.
3. Therefore God possesses existence, i.e. God exists.
In the terms of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s argument above, all beings are
contingent, i.e. their degree of being is not absolute and
necessary. However, the existence of these lesser degrees means
there must be a perfect standard of existence, something that
exists absolutely and necessarily. This being is God.
The root assumption of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s argument from
perfection grows out of the Platonic position that the material
world is a less perfect, i.e. contingent and subject to all kinds
of vicissitudes. Even among members of a kind or species,
some members exemplify the perfections of that species or kind
better than others, as, for example, a healthy as opposed to a
crippled dog, a well-functioning car versus a ‘beater.’ The
deficient examples lack the perfection of the Kingdom. The
existence of these lesser degrees of perfection requires the
existence of an ultimate degree of perfection — and this is
identified with God. In a Platonic world-view, this line of
reasoning is completely logical, but it does not work in a non-
hierarchical world-view in which all things are understood as
having an equal share of perfection. So-called ‘imperfect’ people
are just ‘perfect’ in their own way, as are ‘imperfect’ plants,
cars and systems of governance. However, SAQ does not
accept this non-hierarchical view: “As the degrees of existence
are different and various, some beings are higher in the scale
than others.”153
25. The Argument from Design
`Abdu’l-Bahá also alludes to a variation of the watch-maker
argument when He says, “the smallest created thing proves that
there is a creator. For instance, this piece of bread proves that
it has a maker.”154 A piece of bread does not bake itself — and,
therefore, implies the presence of a baker, just as Paley’s watch
implies the existence of a watchmaker. `Abdu’l-Bahá applies this
idea to `the natural laws that operate in nature:
It is certain that the whole contingent world is
subjected to a law and rule which it can never disobey;
even man is forced to submit to death, to sleep and to
other conditions — that is to say, man in certain

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
particulars is governed, and necessarily this state of
being governed implies the existence of a governor.155
In short, there can be no law without a law-maker, i.e.
someone or something who imposes limits on beings and their
actions. To appreciate the force of this argument we need to
do a thought-experiment: we must try to imagine a world where
there are no limits on any being or its actions. Indeed, it would
be difficult to imagine any beings at all since every being is
limited, and cannot do simply anything. For there to be beings
and inter-action among beings there must be something which
limits them — and this source of order is God.
26. The Argument from Change
Finally, `Abdu’l-Bahá refers to the argument from motion or
change: “the least change produced in the form of the smallest
thing proves the existence of a creator.”156 According to this
argument, every change requires an external cause and this line
of causes cannot be infinite; if it were, no action or change
would take place because nowhere do we find the necessary pre-
requisites for change, i.e. external causation. Each cause would
still be waiting for its predecessor to come into action and this
would go on ad infinitum. Therefore, a final first cause of all
change must exist and this first cause is God. Because `Abdu’l-
Bahá rejects the view that even the slightest motion can be self-
caused, He also rejects the suggestion that the universe could
have brought itself into being:
can this great universe, which is endless, be self-created
and come into existence from the action of matter and
the elements? How self-evidently wrong is such a
supposition!157
The question, of course, is rhetorical. What is noteworthy here
is the categorical way in which He rejects any contradictory
views by calling them “self-evidently wrong.”
`Abdu’l-Bahá ends the discussion of the proofs for God’s
existence by saying that “These obvious arguments are adduced
for weak souls; but if the inner perception be open, a hundred
thousand clear proofs become visible.”158 This, of course, has
important implications for epistemology insofar as it
recognises “inner perception” as a more powerful source of
knowledge of God’s existence than discursive arguments.

Some Answered Questions
Insight can teach us more than discursive reasoning in some
cases.
27. The Perfection of Creation
The argument from perfection inevitably raises the question
about the perfection of creation. If the imperfection of
creation is proof of God’s existence, is creation flawed?
Assuredly not, according to SAQ:
For all existing beings, terrestrial and celestial, as well
as this limitless space and all that is in it, have been
created and organised, composed, arranged and
perfected as they ought to be; the universe has no
imperfection.159
Elsewhere He emphases this point by saying, “All beings,
whether large or small, were created perfect and complete from
the first, but their perfections appear in them by degrees.”160 In
other words, all were created with their full or “complete”
endowment of potentials that will be actualised over time.
Although no being perfect in relationship to God — which is the
basis of the argument from perfection — each thing is created
perfect in itself, in its own degree, in its essence, but it does
not necessarily give perfect expression or actualization to its
perfect endowment of potentials. The vicissitudes of existence,
and, in the case of humankind, misuse of free will may hinder
the optimum actualisation of the originally perfect essence.
Thus, both from an ontological and existential view, there is no
contradiction between saying that the universe as originally
created by God is perfect but that there are more or less
imperfect actualisations of our perfect essential endowments.
`Abdu’l-Bahá also makes the following remark:
the universe has no imperfection, so that if all beings
became pure intelligence and reflected forever and ever,
it is impossible that they could imagine anything better
than that which exists.161
This is a noteworthy statement because it seems to be another
variation of what has become known as Leibniz’s “best of all
possible worlds” argument, according to which God optimizes
and actualises all genuine possibilities in His creation, thereby
creating a universe that contains the optimal diversity of
beings. (This recalls the principle of plenitude discussed above.)
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s formulation of this argument is especially

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
interesting because it answers the usual criticism of Leibniz’
view, namely, the existence of evil and suffering negates the
alleged inherent perfection of the world. Basically, `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s answer is a challenge: let those who think they can,
design a better world with the same diversity of beings and
including human free will. He answers the challenge by saying
that no one could do so. In other words, the fact that evil and
ill exists is not in itself an argument against the essential
perfection of the world. `Abdu’l-Bahá illustrates this by saying,
a scorpion is evil in relation to man; a serpent is evil in
relation to man; but in relation to themselves they are
not evil, for their poison is their weapon, and by their
sting they defend themselves. But as the elements of
their poison do not agree with our elements — that is to
say, as there is antagonism between these different
elements, therefore, this antagonism is evil; but in
reality as regards themselves they are good.162
28. A Process Ontology
One of the most common criticisms made of the Athenian
tradition is that it is a philosophy of stasis that is based on a
static vision of the universe. There is some debate about
whether or not this is actually the case, but that need not
detain us here. Rather, it is important to note that SAQ makes
it patently obvious that its ontology is an active, evolutionary
process ontology.
Know that nothing which exists remains in a state of
repose — that is to say, all things are in motion.
Everything is either growing or declining; all things are
either coming from nonexistence into being, or going
from existence into nonexistence. So this flower, this
hyacinth, during a certain period of time was coming
from the world of nonexistence into being, and now it
is going from being into nonexistence. This state of
motion is said to be essential — that is, natural; it
cannot be separated from beings because it is their
essential requirement, as it is the essential requirement
of fire to burn.163
Motion or change, and existence are correlatives: change
“cannot be separated from beings because it is their “essential
requirement.” In other words, change is an essential attribute
that is necessary for a thing to exist, a statement that in

Some Answered Questions
passing re-affirms the essence and attribute analysis of reality
in SAQ, and implies the difference between essential and
accidental attributes. This statement also re-affirms the
teleological nature of our existence insofar as we are always
moving towards a goal of some kind, whether it be coming into
existence or going out.
Change is universal — “nothing which exists remains in a
state of repose” — and because it is a correlative of existence,
there is no possibility of avoiding it for individuals or
collectives. Here then, we discover the ontological foundation
of the teaching of progressive revelation which is predicated on
our subjection to endless change. That is why the revelation of
the “eternal verities”164 must be adapted to the ever-changing
condition of humankind and material civilization. Change is
also
why
the
“contingent
world
is
the
source
of
imperfections.”165 The reason is clear: change is only possible if
things have unactualised potentials or capacities to shed
and/or add unrealised attributes which means that by
definition they are incomplete and not fully themselves. That
by definition makes them imperfect.
The fact that change is ineradicably part of existence is also
seen in the statement that “[i]n this material world time has
cycles”166 This applies to spiritual issues as well; as `Abdu’l-
Bahá says, “for souls there are progress, retrogression and
education.”167 This, of course, also includes the development of
the human soul after death which once again draws attention
to the process-nature of all existence. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
“Both before and after putting off this material form, there is
progress in perfection but not in state,”168 as well as “as the
spirit continues to exist after death, it necessarily progresses
or declines.”169 Thus He affirms that change is inevitable both
in the material and the spiritual worlds.
Despite the ubiquity of change, we must not make the
mistake of assuming that all kinds of change are applicable to
all kinds of beings. “Intellectual realities”170 and spiritual
realities do not engage in physical motion:
entrance
and
exit,
descent
and
ascent,
are
characteristics of bodies and not of spirits — that is to
say, sensible realities enter and come forth, but
intellectual subtleties and mental realities, such as
intelligence, love, knowledge, imagination and thought,
do not enter, nor come forth, nor descend, but rather

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
they have direct connection … the intellectual realities
do not enter and descend, and it is absolutely
impossible that the Holy Spirit should ascend and
descend, enter, come out or penetrate, it can only be
that the Holy Spirit appears in splendor, as the sun
appears in the mirror.171
Spirit and “intellectual realities” do not move through time
and space as material things do, but ‘move’ in their own way by
a “direct connection”172 that `Abdu’l-Bahá compares to the
reflection of the sun in a mirror. This has tremendous
implications for His teaching about what happens at death
because it means that the spirit or soul does not enter the body,
or inhabit the body as is so often imagined, and therefore has
no place ‘to go’ at the onset of death. It simply does not exist
in the spatio-temporal realm and is not subject to spatio-
temporal change.
The spirit never entered this body, so in quitting it, it
will not be in need of an abiding-place: no, the spirit is
connected with the body, as this light is with this
mirror. When the mirror is clear and perfect, the light
of the lamp will be apparent in it, and when the mirror
becomes covered with dust or breaks, the light will
disappear.173
The question remains, of course, about the exact meaning of
the metaphor of the light in the mirror. Here is one possibility:
the sun does not enter i.e. descend into the mirror
ontologically but maintains a formal but not substantial
presence in it by means of its power or light. Thus, we observe
the form of the sun but not its substance in the mirror and we
experience its power/light but neither the sun nor its
power/light depend on the body/mirror for their actual
existence. When the mirror breaks or is darkened there is
nowhere for this power/light to manifest itself and therefore it
‘disappears’ not in itself but in relation to us. To continue the
analogy, our soul after death is that ‘segment’ and amount of
light we have reflected in our life-times which will differ just as
each mirror reflects the sun in a slightly different manner.
Part II: Onto-Theology
For our purposes, onto-theology is the study of ontological
principles in relation to theological issues, or, if we wish, it

Some Answered Questions
refers to the theology of being. In other words, it examines
theological issues from an ontological perspective to explore
the nature of reality.
29. The Ontological Attributes of God
Scattered throughout SAQ is a catalogue of God’s
attributes and these may be divided into two broad categories:
God’s ontological attributes and His ethical attributes, i.e.
attributes related to the nature of God’s being as we are
informed of this subject by the Manifestation and `Abdu’l-
Bahá, and the attributes related to God’s ethical relationship to
His creation, as for example, the Merciful, the Educator and
the Compassionate for example. In this portion of the paper,
we shall focus on the ontological attributes because they form
the foundation on which the ethical attributes are built. For
example, if God were subject to time and had to wait for the
future to unfold before He knew what it was, He could not be
the all-knowing, omniscient educator Who could meet
humankind’s evolutionary needs.
According to SAQ, God possess certain attributes that
make Him absolutely unique and distinguish Him from the rest
of His creation. One of these is singleness which has several
possible meanings. First, it means God is an absolute unity:
That Lordly Reality admits of no division; for division
and multiplicity are properties of creatures which are
contingent existences, and not accidents which happen
to the self-existent.174
This complex and far-reaching statement makes two points.
First, unlike all created beings, God is not a composite of
actuality and potential, essence and attribute, essence and
existence and substance and form. He is not a composite of
actuality and potential because if God had any potentials, i.e.
unactualised capacities, He would obviously be incomplete i.e.
imperfect and subject to additional change. This would make
God like all other contingent beings, it would be a demotion:
“[t]he descent of that Lordly Reality into conditions and
degrees would be equivalent to imperfection and contrary to
perfection, and is, therefore, absolutely impossible.”175 God is
not a composite of essence and attribute because “the essential
names and attributes of God are identical with His Essence,
and His Essence is above all comprehension.”176 `Abdu’l-Bahá

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
provides a very precise ontological reason why God’s essence
and attributes must be one:
If the attributes are not identical with the Essence,
there must also be a multiplicity of preexistences, and
differences between the attributes and the Essence
must also exist; and as Preexistence is necessary,
therefore, the sequence of preexistences would become
infinite. This is an evident error.177
In other words, if the essence and attributes are not one, then
both must be “pre-existence[s]” like God because they co-exist
with Him. However, this denies the singleness of God and
makes Him one of a multiplicity of co-existing things.
Moreover, if the attributes are prexistences, then there must be
an infinite number of them since the ontological ‘distance,’ the
degrees, between the essence of God and His attributes is
infinite if God is not one with His attributes. This leads to an
infinite sequence and the possibility of such a sequence is
denied by `Abdu’l-Bahá: “This is an evident error.” (His
rejection of an infinite real sequence is another link to the
philosophy of Aristotle.)
Because God has no potentials to actualise, i.e. is completely
actualized, God undergoes no change. There is nothing further
for God to change to; hence God is immutable:
The Sun of Reality, as we have said, has always been in
one condition; it has no change, no alteration, no
transformation and no vicissitude. It is eternal and
everlasting.178
Change is imperfection because it means that a being is not
yet ‘all it can be.’ Such a statement could only apply to
contingent beings because contingent beings depend on new
circumstances and conditions to initiate change. For them to
change means they also exist in time as they await new
circumstances and conditions. This is impossible in the case of
God because He does not exist in time: “Time has sway over
creatures but not over God.”179 Elsewhere `Abdu’l-Bahá asserts
that “beginning and end in relation to God are one,”180 which is
to say that for God, the future does not exist as something
distinct from the present and the past as they do for all created
and contingent beings: they are the one.
God is also not a composite of substance and form because
form must be imposed on a substance or material from

Some Answered Questions
outside; no material can give itself form, as in the case of the
chair in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s example of four-fold causality.
Furthermore, God cannot be a composite of essence and
existence because He is the only necessary being, i.e. the only
non-contingent being whose nature it is to exist. His essence
and existence are one. He exists necessarily, He is not
contingent or dependent181 on anything else. That is why He
can bestow existence on others but none can bestow existence
on Him. In these four ways, God is different from all other
beings, i.e. is ontologically unique and cannot, logically
speaking, have any partner: “if we say that there is one Sun, and
it is pure singleness, and has no partner and equal, we again
speak truly.”182 This, it may be noted in passing, is the
ontological reason why there can be no Satan, i.e. no actually
existing being capable of challenging God’s absolute position
as Creator and ruler of creation. Such a being, would, in
effect, be a ‘partner’ or co-ruler.
Of course, we must also keep in mind that “the Divine
Reality is sanctified from singleness”183 and not just from
plurality. This statement reminds us that God is even beyond
‘one-ness,’ i.e. is beyond all conceivable categories of being
(‘number’ is one of those categories) — a position which sets the
ontological foundation for the necessity of knowing the Divine
only through the Manifestation. If God were conceivable by the
human mind, either by reason or by means of experience
through ‘mystic states,’ there would be no absolute necessity
for us to turn to the Manifestation to know about God.
It is important to remember that God does have names and
attributes revealed to us by the Manifestation, and, with the
guidance of `Abdu’l-Bahá we may reason about these as long as
we recall our thoughts are only partial and reflect an innate
human bias. (‘Partial’ of course does not mean ‘incorrect.’) For
example, `Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that “the names and attributes of
the Divinity themselves require the existence of beings.”184 He
proceeds to point out that there can be no creator without a
creation or a monarch without subjects. His statement is
challenging not because it implicitly names God as the Creator
but because it says that God’s names “require” a creation. Does
this not effectively deny God’s freedom to create because He is
being required to do so by something? Moreover, does not this
lack of freedom constitute an imperfection in God, a denial of
the principle that ““He doeth whatsoever He willeth”185? There is
at least one solution to this apparent contradiction. As we saw
earlier, God and His attributes are one, i.e. identical. Thus

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
God and the name of ‘Creator’ are one, and therefore, the
necessity to create and the will to create are one and the same.
Such distinctions do not exist in God for if they did, He would
no longer be a unity. Only to us, whose attributes and essences
are not always identical with our essence, is it possible for an
attribute to compel us to do something. Moreover, there is no
external entity imposing itself on God. What contingent and
dependent being could have the capacity to do so?
God’s absolute unity or “singleness” is only one of the ways
in which He is unique. Neither spirits nor God engage in
physical motion in any way and, therefore, really have no
physical or material mode of existence.
This state is neither abiding nor entering, neither
commingling nor descending; for entering, abiding,
descending, issuing forth and commingling are the
necessities and characteristics of bodies, not of
spirits; then how much less do they belong to the
sanctified and pure Reality of God.186
This has important implications for science because it
means that any efforts to find the soul in the body is misguided
insofar as souls, like God, are not subject to the conditions of
place and time (nor of quantity) which are measurements
crucial to scientific endeavour. Their existence can neither be
proven nor disproven by these means, which means, in effect,
we have encountered one of the limitations of science.
Of course, SAQ, draws attention to other attributes of
God, such as the fact that He is omnipotent:
it becomes evident that this Nature, which has neither
perception nor intelligence, is in the grasp of Almighty
God, Who is the Ruler of the world of Nature; whatever
He wishes, He causes Nature to manifest.187
`Abdu’l-Bahá also maintains that God is omniscient or all-
knowing: “He is the Omniscient, the Knower.”188
30. Emanationism
One of the signature doctrines of Bahá’í onto-theology is the
doctrine of emanation, which, historically gets its first
thorough explication in the Enneads of Plotinus in the 3rd
Century AD. The Enneads were a synthesis of Plato and
Aristotle and has great influence both in the Christian and

Some Answered Questions
Muslim traditions of philosophy. Plotinus’ main metaphor for
the emanative process was the sun and its light. `Abdu’l-Bahá
also uses this metaphor.
the light of the sun emanates from the sun; it does not
manifest it. The appearance through emanation is like
the appearance of the rays from the luminary of the
horizons of the world — that is to say, the holy essence
of the Sun of Truth is not divided and does not
descend to the condition of the creatures. In the same
way, the globe of the sun does not become divided and
does not descend to the earth. No, the rays of the sun,
which are its bounty, emanate from it and illumine the
dark bodies.189
Several observations are in order. First, the sun, i.e. God,
retains His unity or “singleness” and does not divide or
distribute itself in its light or among His creations. `Abdu’l-
Bahá calls such division and distribution “proceeding through
manifestation”190 in which the “reality of a thing [appears] in
other forms.”191 His example of such manifestation is the
emergence of a tree or flower from a seed. Under no
circumstances does manifestation apply to God Who never
becomes part of creation and Who “has no change, no
alteration, no transformation, and no vicissitude”192 — a
position
that
effectively
precludes
even
the
slightest
suggestions of pantheism and monism since the teaching of
emanation supports ontological pluralism. It also effectively
precludes incarnationism, i.e. the Christian doctrine that in
the person of Christ, God Himself became part of creation.
The rejection of this doctrine defines a major difference
between virtually all branches of Christianity and the Bahá’í
understanding of the nature of the Manifestations.
To clarify the nature of emanationism, `Abdu’l-Bahá adds
the following statement:
The spirits of men, with reference to God, have
dependence through emanation, just as the discourse
proceeds from the speaker and the writing from the
writer — that is to say, the speaker himself does not
become the discourse, nor does the writer himself
become the writing.193
The distinction between speaker and speech, and writer and
words clearly demonstrates the ontological difference between
God and creation: the difference between them is not one of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
degree but rather, a difference of kind — hence the ontological
pluralism of SAQ. One is not a ‘lesser version’ of the other.
Reality is not the appearance of God “in other forms.”194
Emanationism requires that reality be strictly divided into
successive planes or levels of the emanative process with God as
the only absolutely independent non-contingent being as the
source or fountainhead of all other beings. This, of course, is
exactly what we observe in SAQ as we have already shown with
the hierarchy of mineral, vegetable, animal and human, and as
shall be demonstrated below in the hierarchy of the world of
God, the Kingdom and the material world. Moreover, in
emanationism each successive level of being has less and less
power or capacity and in that sense is proportionally less than
its predecessor which has its powers in addition to new ones.
For that reason, matter is described as “imperfection,”
“darkness” and “night,”195 and humankind is described as “the
end of imperfection [“materiality”]and the beginning of
perfection. He is at the last degree of darkness, and at the
beginning of light.”196
Emanationism stands in sharp contrast to creationism, i.e.
the doctrine that God created only once and that was out of
nothing. This is the commonly accepted doctrine in
Christianity, Judaism and Islam. Emanationism holds that
creation is eternal and on-going although there may be phases
in this process in which particular universes come into or go
out of existence. Emanationism is distinct from monism
insofar as emanationism does not see all of reality as one
without any ontologically fundamental differences between the
Creator and the created. The existence of the strict hierarchy
we have observed in SAQ negates any such undifferentiated
unity. Similarly, emanationism, though sometimes confused
with
pantheism,
is
really
quite
different
insofar
as
emanationism does not identify God with creation or nature
since such an identification would involve God in change and
have Him descend into ordinary, material beings.
The emanationist ontology of SAQ (and the Writings in
general) creates bridges between Bahá’í teachings and teachings
found in other spiritual traditions such as Sufism, Kabbalah,
Advaita Vedanta and the Vijnanavada school of Buddhism.
Moreover, it establishes connections with such philosophers as
Al-Farabi, Ibn Sina, Ibn Rushd in the Muslim tradition, with
Dionysius the Pseudo-Areopagite, John Scotus Erigena and

Some Answered Questions
Nicholas of Cusa in the Christian tradition and with
Maimonides in the Jewish tradition.
31. The Manifestations
Because God and creation are so ontologically different, an
intermediary level of reality is needed to connect them without
impugning God’s ontological absolute inviolability and
without raising the possibility of created beings ascending to
the level of the Creator as some mystics claim to do. The need
for an intermediary is the ontological basis for the three part
structure of reality as variously expressed in SAQ: “Know that
the conditions of existence are limited to the conditions of
servitude, of prophethood and of Deity…”197 The three
conditions mentioned here correspond to the levels of the
creation, the Manifestation and the Creator. `Abdu’l-Bahá also
expresses this three-part structure of existence by stating, “The
Prophets, on the contrary, believe that there is the world of
God, the world of the Kingdom, and the world of Creation:
three things.”198 Again we observe the three part structure with
an intermediary between God and His creation. The Kingdom,
as we have already seen, is the ideal world of which this world is
an image or shadow. The three-part structure is also implicit in
the following statement:
Therefore, all creatures emanate from God — that is to
say, it is by God that all things are realized, and by
Him that all beings have attained to existence. The first
thing which emanated from God is that universal
reality, which the ancient philosophers termed the
“First Mind,” and which the people of Bahá call the
“First Will.”199
In this case, there is God, the first emanation called the “First
Mind” or “First Will” and then the subsequent levels of
emanation. The “First Mind” or “First Will” stands between
them. The tripartite division is referred to implicitly when
`Abdu’l-Bahá, speaking of the impossibility of man devising
adequate concepts of God, says,
But for this Essence of the essences, this Truth of
truths, this Mystery of mysteries, there are reflections,
auroras, appearances and resplendencies in the world
of existence. The dawning-place of these splendors, the
place of these reflections, and the appearance of these
manifestations are the Holy Dawning-places, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Universal Realities and the Divine Beings, Who are the
true mirrors of the sanctified Essence of God.200
Again we observe the tripartite structure of God, the
“reflections, auras, appearances” and the “world of existence.”
We also observe how this ‘middle point’ or “dawning place,” of
“Universal Realit[y]” mediates or transmits the light of God
into the rest of creation. `Abdu’l-Bahá describes the
Manifestation as the “mediator of the Divine Bounty”201 to the
created world:
The splendors of the perfections, bounties and
attributes of God shine forth and radiate from the
reality of the Perfect Man — that is to say, the Unique
One, the supreme Manifestation of God. Other beings
receive only one ray, but the supreme Manifestation is
the mirror for this Sun, which appears and becomes
manifest in it, with all its perfections, attributes, signs
and wonders.202
In the perfect Mirror, “the Sun of Reality becomes visible
and manifest with all its qualities and perfections.”203 This
ontological function comes into sharper focus when we
consider the third of the three stations of the Manifestations.
“The third station is that of the divine appearance and heavenly
splendour: it is the Word of God, the Eternal Bounty, the Holy
Spirit.”204 This connection between the Manifestation in His
third station with the Holy Spirit is significant because the
Holy Spirit is also described as “the mediator between God and
His creatures,”205 which re-emphasises the Manifestation’s role
as intermediary between the highest and lowest ontological
levels.
32. The Manifestation as World-Soul
However, in His third station, the role of the Manifestation
goes even further: it is
the divine appearance, which is the divine perfections,
the cause of the life of existence, of the education of
souls, of the guidance of people, and of the
enlightenment of the contingent world.206
The teaching that the Manifestation is “the cause of the life of
existence” means that He functions like the traditional concept
of the ‘world-soul,’ the immediate source of existence and life
throughout the created universe. (This is another link between

Some Answered Questions
SAQ and the Athenian, particularly neo-Platonic tradition.)
Thus the Manifestation has a ‘cosmic’ function in the
evolution of the universe itself; His ‘work’ is not simply limited
to the human sphere. This third station “has neither beginning
nor end. When beginning is spoken of, it signifies the state of
manifesting.”207 In other words, this third station has always
existed as a part of the three-fold structure of existence.
This ‘world-soul’ function is emphasised vis-à-vis humanity
by the statement that
One Holy Soul gives life to the world of humanity,
changes the aspect of the terrestrial globe, causes
intelligence to progress, vivifies souls, lays the basis of
a new life, establishes new foundations, organizes the
world, brings nations and religions under the shadow
of one standard, delivers man from the world of
imperfections and vices, and inspires him with the
desire and need of natural and acquired perfections.208
Without the Manifestation in His three conditions — the
physical, the human or rational soul and the “divine
appearance”209 i.e. the “the Word of God, the eternal Bounty,
the Holy Spirit”210 — humankind could not exist. He is literally
the source of life to humanity (and by implication all the beings
humanity physically depends on) as well as the mover of
political, socio-economic and cultural progress. In other
words, the Manifestation beyond His specifically human
aspect, also has a cosmic and world-historical function. Thus,
according to SAQ, the Manifestation is more than a teacher of
moral and theological truths which is how Manifestations tend
to be viewed in other religions. Rather, The Manifestation’s
role is wider and more far-reaching than that of the
conventional theological understandings.
In the ontological schema we have examined, it is apparent
that God is ontological prior to all the other levels, i.e. the
existence of God is the condition that allows the other two
levels to exist. The same is true of the Manifestation Whose
existence is the necessary condition that allows creation to
exist. That is why `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “the Reality of Christ,
Who is the Word of God, with regard to essence, attributes
and glory, certainly precedes the creatures.”211 Without this
“Reality,” the rest of creation could not exist, a fact which
indicates the ontological function of the Manifestation.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
33. Three Comments
At this point two general comments are in order. First, SAQ
suggest correspondences from the onto-theological perspective.
The
Manifestations
of
God
occupy
the
station
of
prophethood, which corresponds to the Kingdom and to the
“First Mind” or “First Will”: all of them occupy a middle
position between God and creation. This leads to the
possibility that there may be a deeper order or structure at
work in SAQ (and the other Writings) than what is explicitly
apparent. This suggestion, however, will require more research.
From this possibility, a question arises: ‘Why then, the
different terms for the ‘middle level?’ At this point a definitive
answer is difficult to establish but one possibility is that the
different terms arise due to different perspectives or contexts
and purposes. For example, the term ‘Manifestation’ is used
when the focus of discussion is the human and historical
presence of this first creation, i.e. when the focus of
discussion is onto-theological. The other terms are used when
the focus is more ontological and theoretical.
The second comment is that the conditions or levels of
reality are absolutely fixed insofar as “for every being there is a
point which it cannot overpass.”212 In other words, no being
can escape the condition of “servitude” in which it exists. For
example, “a mineral, however far it may progress in the mineral
kingdom, cannot gain the vegetable power,”213 and a human
being “however far he may progress in gaining limitless
perfections, will never reach the condition of Deity.”214
Obviously SAQ’s ontology inherently subscribes to a law of
limits vis-à-vis progress which effectively rejects any mystic
claims of being ontologically one with God, and any notion
that the creation and God can in any way be one. Moreover, we
might describe this ontological structure as ‘hard’ insofar as
there is no crossing over from one level or condition to
another. This provides additional support to the idea that the
universe has an underlying order and structure which in turn
supports the idea of a Creator. Finally, the ‘hard’ distinctions
between levels of reality provides ontological foundations for
the teaching that human beings cannot attain direct knowledge
of God.
In the foregoing discussion we have observed in passing that
the Manifestations exist on “three planes”215 or “conditions”216
or “stations”217: the physical condition as with all material
beings; the “individual reality”218 of the rational human soul

Some Answered Questions
and the condition of the “divine appearance and heavenly
splendour.”219 A similar idea is found in the following: “but
Their heavenly condition embraces all things, knows all
mysteries, discovers all signs, and rules over all things.”220
However, even in rational condition of the human soul, the
Manifestation is not merely a man ‘like the others:’
But the individual reality of the Manifestations of God
is a holy reality, and for that reason it is sanctified
and, in that which concerns its nature and quality, is
distinguished from all other things.221
In other words, the Manifestation possesses an individual
rational soul, as do all human beings, but it is different from
ours in regards to its nature and quality. This establishes a
difference in kind between the Manifestation and the rest of
creation; He is not merely ‘one of us,’ at least not in His
second and third stations. One of the key differences concerns
Their knowledge of the world:
Since
the
Sanctified
Realities,
the
supreme
Manifestations of God, surround the essence and
qualities of the creatures, transcend and contain
existing realities and understand all things, therefore,
Their knowledge is divine knowledge, and not acquired
— that is to say, it is a holy bounty; it is a divine
revelation.222
Here we see how ontology impacts epistemology insofar as a
higher ontological station enables greater access to knowledge
of beings on a lower station. In this case, just as the human
soul surrounds the body and has intuitive knowledge of its
parts and their condition, the Manifestation ontologically
surrounds all created entities insofar as His powers and
capacities exceed theirs. (See the earlier section on nested
hierarchies.) Unlike us, His immediate knowledge is not limited
to His own body but extends to all creation. Therefore, He can
comprehend all things and know them intuitively just as we are
aware of our own bodies.
34. The Manifestations’ Superior Knowledge
Precisely because He has such superior knowledge of all
beings, He is capable of guiding humankind.
The Manifestation — that is, the Holy Lawgiver —
unless He is aware of the realities of beings, will not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
comprehend the essential connection which proceeds
from the realities of things, and He will certainly not
be able to establish a religion conformable to the facts
and suited to the conditions.223
Without His special insight into the conditions of “the
realities of things,” the Manifestation would not be able to be
the meet the needs of human spiritual and socio-economic
evolution. The ontological basis for this special insight is
found in the Manifestation’s role as a ‘world-soul Who is “the
cause of the life of existence.”224 This position allows Him
privileged insight into the nature of all beings. In this
connection, `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
the universal divine mind, which is beyond nature, is
the bounty of the Preexistent Power. This universal
mind is divine; it embraces existing realities, and it
receives the light of the mysteries of God. It is a
conscious power, not a power investigation and of
research … This divine intellectual power is the special
attribute of the Holy Manifestations and the Dawning-
places of prophethood.225
In other words, the special and privileged insight into the
conditions of creation are a result of possessing the “universal
divine mind” which is supra-natural, i.e. “beyond nature.” This
means that the “universal divine mind” and its powers are
beyond natural explanation, i.e. cannot be explained in purely
natural or scientific terms. The fact that it is a “conscious
power” and not an investigative power means that the universal
mind does not engage in step-by-step discursive reasoning but
rather works by immediate insight.
Part III: Epistemology
Epistemology is the branch of philosophy concerning itself
with questions about what we know, what is possible for us to
know, how we can know, and the reliability of our knowledge
and methods of acquiring it. Although SAQ has a considerable
amount to say on this subject, it does not contain an
epistemological theory worked out in minute detail. Instead,
SAQ sets out general guidelines which all proposed Bahá’í-
based epistemological theories must satisfy to be in harmony
with the Writings. It is, therefore, possible that there may be a

Some Answered Questions
variety of Bahá’í-based epistemologies which are consistent
with the Writings, though not necessarily with each other.
As already discussed above, epistemology is intimately
related with ontology because ontological station or condition
determines what and how we can acquire knowledge. One of the
principles which underlies SAQ’s epistemology is that
“everything which is lower is powerless to comprehend the
reality of that which is higher.”226 This is why humankind
cannot comprehend the “Reality of the Divinity”227 and why the
plant or animal cannot comprehend the human essence;
`Abdu’l-Bahá says, “the difference of conditions in the world of
beings is an obstacle to comprehension”228 and adds,
“[d]ifference of condition is an obstacle to knowledge; the
inferior degree cannot comprehend the superior degree.”229
Consequently, humankind needs the Manifestation to attain
knowledge of God: “if man attains to the knowledge of the
Manifestations of God, he will attain to the knowledge of
God.”230 Furthermore, this principle shapes SAQ’s view of
what philosophy is and can do: “Philosophy consists in
comprehending the reality of things as they exist, according to
the capacity and the power of man.”231
Here we observe not only the realist orientation of SAQ’s
epistemology in knowing “the reality of things as they exist,”
but also a re-affirmation of the principle that the capacity to
know is linked to one’s ontological condition.
35. Realism and the Correspondence Theory of Truth
As indicated in our discussion of ontology, SAQ falls
clearly into the realist camp. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that
each thing has its degree of existence provides a realist
foundation for Bahá’í ontology and epistemology. If “each
being” has its own “principle, foundation or reality”232 and
reflects one of the names of God in its own way, it is,
therefore, not only genuinely distinct from all other things but
also independent from them, i.e. has its own principle or
foundation of existence “in itself.”233 Having this principle or
foundation “in itself” establishes a basis for the ontological
independence of “each being” (except, of course, from God)
including independence from human observers, which is to say,
the ontological status of “each being” is does not depend on
being observed by humans or on human beliefs or linguistic
practices.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
SAQ builds on this realist ontological foundation by
asserting that
All sciences, knowledge, arts, wonders, institutions,
discoveries and enterprises come from the exercised
intelligence of the rational soul. There was a time when
they were unknown, preserved mysteries and hidden
secrets; the rational soul gradually discovered them and
brought them out from the plane of the invisible and
the hidden into the realm of the visible. This is the
greatest power of perception in the world of nature,
which in its highest flight and soaring comprehends the
realities, the properties and the effects of the
contingent beings.234
The realist approach is clearly present in the assertion that the
rational soul discovers the unknown, and “comprehends the
realities, the properties and the effects of contingent beings.”
In other words, the rational soul does not construct them,
which is to say that these “realities” exist independently of the
human perceiver. They once existed in a hidden form and are
now revealed. Elsewhere `Abdu’l-Bahá states,
The mind and the thought of man sometimes discover
truths, and from this thought and discovery signs and
results are produced. This thought has a foundation.
But many things come to the mind of man which are
like the waves of the sea of imaginations; they have no
fruit, and no result comes from them.235
Here `Abdu’l-Bahá goes into more detail. Discoveries lead to
“thought [that] has a foundation,” i.e. a foundation in reality.
This, in effect, asserts a correspondence theory of truth in
which correct thought has a “foundation” or basis in reality,
which is to say, corresponds to reality. `Abdu’l-Bahá also
differentiates such thought from imaginations which He says
lead to no real results. This idea is reinforced by His statement
that “Man is able to resist and to oppose Nature because he
discovers the constitution of things, and through this he
commands the forces of Nature.”236 The result of human
discoveries that have a “foundation” in or correspond to
reality is the ability to control nature. This, too, implies that
discovers the pre-existing “constitution of things” and does
not invent or construct them, i.e. they are independent of
human perception. Here is another example:

Some Answered Questions
the rational soul as far as human ability permits
discovers the realities of things and becomes cognizant
of their peculiarities and effects, and of the qualities
and properties of beings.237
The rational soul becomes “cognizant” of “their peculiarities
and effects,” i.e. perceives them in their nature and ways of
being, not in our constructions. We observe the “properties of
beings,” not the humanly constructed properties that we
ascribe to them.
Of course, humankind is not God or a Manifestation. Its
ability to acquire knowledge has limits; we know “as far as
human ability permits.” We are not omniscient. However, we
must not draw false conclusions from this. The fact that our
knowledge is limited by our human ontological station and to
our human capacities does not mean it is mistaken or a human
construct. A child’s knowledge of arithmetic is limited, but it
is not, thereby, in error, nor is it a construction dependent on
the human perceiver. Our knowledge that the Giants won the
Super Bowl 2008 is a limited knowledge of the actual game, but
nonetheless it is correct and not dependent on an observer.
Indeed, through the course of this study, we could not locate a
single direct or indirect epistemological reference in SAQ
which deviated from the realist position and the consequent
correspondence theory of knowledge.
SAQ reinforces the correspondence theory of knowledge in a
variety of statements. As already noted, `Abdu’l-Bahá states
that “Philosophy consists in comprehending the reality of
things as they exist, according to the capacity and the power of
man.”238 To comprehend “the reality of things as they exist” is
nothing other than to have one’s knowledge correspond to
reality. Naturally, this comprehension is limited by our station
and capacities but this does not mean that what we do in fact
comprehend does not correspond to reality. Imagine a very
dirty window with only one clear patch: what we see through
the clear patch is limited but that does not mean what we see is
not really there. Furthermore, `Abdu’l-Bahá asserts that we can
gain real knowledge by the power of inference: “From known
realities — that is to say, from the things which are known and
visible — he discovers unknown things.”239 His example is
Columbus who “through the power of his reason he discovers
another
hemisphere,”240
whose
inferred
knowledge
corresponded to reality. Another example of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s to
a correspondence theory of knowledge is the following:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Reflect that man’s power of thought consists of two
kinds. One kind is true, when it agrees with a
determined truth. Such conceptions find realization in
the exterior world; such are accurate opinions, correct
theories, scientific discoveries and inventions.241
Here He speaks specifically of a knowledge that “agrees with a
determined truth,” i.e. knowledge that corresponds to reality.
He also provides a test for this knowledge: it leads to “accurate
opinions” and “correct theories” which conform to reality as
well as to discoveries and inventions. In other words, such
knowledge has real results testable with the reality in question.
36. Rejection of Nominalism and Conceptualism
The inherent realism of SAQ places it squarely in opposition
to nominalism and its variant, conceptualism. Nominalism
holds that general or abstract terms i.e. ‘universals’ only exist
as names (hence ‘nominalism’) and do not correspond to any
reality. It is the
view that things denominated by the same term share
nothing in common except that fact: what all chairs
have in common is that they are called ‘chair.’242
According to nominalism, only individuals are real; kinds,
species and classes are not — something which, as we have seen,
SAQ emphatically denies in its assertion of the plant, animal
and human levels of spirit, each with its own particular set of
class, kind or ‘species’ attributes. The same is clear from
SAQ’s references to “degrees, stations, species and classes.”243
Furthermore, for nominalism, even the common qualities of
things such as colours, structure, function and materials are
human constructions and do not actually correspond to any
real qualities in the things perceived. This, too, conflicts with
SAQ which considers the attributes of plants, animals and
humans to be objectively real. Humankind, for example, has the
powers of growth attributable to plants, the powers of sense
and motion of animals as well as the “rational soul” which
distinguishes our species. These are objectively real qualities
inhering in things.
Moreover, as the following statement shows, humankind
“discovers the realities of things and becomes cognizant of
their peculiarities and effects, and of the qualities and
properties of beings.”244 It is noteworthy that we discover the

Some Answered Questions
realities, “peculiarities and effects,” and “the qualities and
properties of beings” — we do not invent or construct them.
Furthermore, the qualities which clearly belong to the things in
which they inhere are a source of knowledge about things: “our
knowledge of things, even of created and limited things, is
knowledge of their qualities.”245 Indeed, `Abdu’l-Bahá identifies
knowledge of qualities or attributes as one of two kinds of
knowledge:
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the
knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge
of its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through
its qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden.246
Obviously, in His view, qualities provide knowledge about
things. Hence SAQ does not agree with the nominalist view
that qualities do not correspond to anything real in objects.
It is important to emphasise this in order to locate the
philosophy of SAQ on the spectrum of available philosophies
and especially those of our time when nominalism in its various
forms is popular, especially in its postmodern guise.247
Locating the Bahá’í philosophy on the spectrum of available
philosophies helps us determine its nature, not to mention its
closest relatives and its opponents. As explained at the
beginning of this paper, this has tremendous implications for
teaching and explicating the Faith as well as for inter-faith
dialogue, especially with religions that have strongly developed
philosophical traditions.
37. Sources of Knowledge
According to SAQ, there are four generally accepted sources
of knowledge. The first of these is knowledge based on the
evidence based on sensory observation or, as it is called today,
empirical knowledge. This kind of knowledge has its stronghold
in science. `Abdu’l-Bahá rejects this kind of knowledge as final
and authoritative because the senses can mislead us and
consequently mislead our thinking. Reason is the second
method of gaining knowledge, but He rejects it as final and
authoritative because it does not necessarily lead to agreement
and certainty: “the method of reason is not perfect.”248 The
third method is tradition, and this method is “not perfect,
because the traditions are understood by the reason …[and] the
reason itself is liable to err.”249 However, there is a fourth

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
method of acquiring knowledge which is able to provide
certainty.
But the bounty of the Holy Spirit gives the true method
of comprehension which is infallible and indubitable.
This is through the help of the Holy Spirit which comes
to man, and this is the condition in which certainty
can alone be attained.250
Let us examine this carefully, for in the contemporary
philosophical climate, much depends on it. The “bounty of the
Holy Spirit” provides the conditions in which we can attain
“certainty,” “infallible” and “indubitable,” knowledge. Hence it
is possible, at least in principle, for humankind to attain
certain knowledge. The location of this passage as the
conclusion of a talk on epistemology is also of interest because
it demonstrates that in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s view, the spiritual
condition of humankind has consequences on what and how
much we are capable of knowing even in other areas. Our
natural abilities, i.e. our abilities unassisted by the Holy Spirit,
have inherent limitations that can only be overcome with divine
support. Our spiritual condition and our capacity for
knowledge are connected, as illustrated in the following
statement:
Now consider, in this great century which is the cycle
of Bahá’u’lláh, what progress science and knowledge
have made, how many secrets of existence have been
discovered, how many great inventions have been
brought to light and are day by day multiplying in
number. Before long, material science and learning, as
well as the knowledge of God, will make such progress
and will show forth such wonders that the beholders
will be amazed.251
The spiritual and the scientific are not opposed to one another
and can work together in harmony. There is a further
association
of
the
Holy
Spirit
with
knowledge
and
understanding when `Abdu’l-Bahá says that the appearance of
the Holy Spirit “dispels the darkness of ignorance.”252 Here,
too, spiritual condition and knowledge, i.e. epistemology, are
linked.
Even the possibility of attaining certain knowledge
distinguishes the epistemology of SAQ from that of
contemporary postmodern philosophies which cannot admit
that sure knowledge is possible even in principle. This is a

Some Answered Questions
‘continental divide’ among modern philosophies with some
philosophies, like those in the Athenian tradition, going one
way and others, such as postmodernism, going another.
Naturally it is necessary to ask ourselves what is meant by
the “bounty of the Holy Spirit.” `Abdu’l-Bahá offers one clue
when discussing the proofs for God’s existence:
if the inner perception be open, a hundred thousand
clear proofs become visible. Thus, when man feels the
indwelling spirit, he is in no need of arguments for its
existence; but for those who are deprived of the bounty
of the spirit, it is necessary to establish external
arguments.253
In other words, when the mind is clear and open, we can
perceive directly that which we otherwise must laboriously
prove by discursive reasoning. We acquire knowledge by
immediate insight because we are enlightened by the “the
luminous rays which emanate from the Manifestations.”254
This is analogous to but not the same as Descartes’ “clear and
distinct ideas,”255 the difference being that `Abdu’l-Bahá
includes our spiritual and not merely our intellectual condition
in His statement about “the bounty of the Holy Spirit.”
However,
in
both
cases,
the
insight
attained,
the
comprehension attained by the “bounty of the Holy Spirit” is
foundational, i.e. it cannot be doubted and is “infallible and
indubitable.” On these certain foundations we can build a
variety of inferences and deductions. Therefore, we may
conclude that the epistemological position of SAQ is
foundational insofar as “infallible and indubitable” knowledge
is at least possible for those who attain the “bounty of the Holy
Spirit.” SAQ is also foundational because the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh are the certain foundations on which all other
certain knowledge claims must be based.
38. A Reflection on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Statements
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements about the four methods of
knowledge do not assert that the senses, reason or tradition
cannot be used at all in the quest for certain knowledge but
rather that by themselves they are not sufficient. They are
“liable to error,”256 i.e. “not perfect”257 which does not mean
‘always wrong’ but rather, being possibly “exposed or subject
to some usually adverse contingency or action.”258 They may be
wrong in various degrees of probability, but this is not to say

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
that they are useless in the quest for knowledge; rather, it
indicates that they must be used with care and in the correct
conditions. They are necessary but are not sufficient.
According to `Abdu’l-Bahá the senses, reason and traditions
must be augmented and assisted by the inspiration or “bounty”
of the Holy Spirit; when this occurs, we meet the necessary and
sufficient condition for attaining certainty in our knowledge.
This assistance provides us with a touchstone, a perspective or
‘Archimedean point’ from which we can judge whether our
views agree with the revelation, are neutral towards it or
disagree. Consequently, we must reject views that patently
disagree with the revelation, assign various degrees of
probability to those that are neutral and accept those which are
endorsed or in harmony with the tenor of the Writings.
In considering the epistemology of SAQ, we must beware of
going to two extremes common in our time. On one hand, we
must not accept the senses, reason and traditions as absolute
sources of truth, the way science accepts empiricism or
religions often accept unexamined tradition. Such knowledge is
necessary but not sufficient for certainty. On the other hand,
we must not fall — as is common in postmodern philosophy —
into the trap of corrosive relativism and scepticism about all
knowledge claims and judge them all as equal because we ‘can’t
really know for sure.’ All truth-claims are judged to have the
same degree of probability or improbability, which is a
viewpoint that brings with it a host of philosophical
difficulties.259 As we have seen, however, throughout SAQ,
`Abdu’l-Bahá has no hesitations in describing various views —
such as pantheism, maya-ism, re-incarnationism or a real
infinite regress — as erroneous.
If `Abdu’l-Bahá did not think that error and truth are real
and that progress involves moving from the former to the
latter, He would not be able to argue that humankind needs an
educator
so that knowledge and science may increase, and the
reality of things, the mysteries of beings and the
properties of existence maybe discovered; that, day by
day, instructions, inventions and institutions may be
improved; and from things perceptible to the senses
conclusions as to intellectual things may be deduced.260
If there were no real knowledge, i.e. no difference between
truth and error, and no progress in knowledge, i.e. no

Some Answered Questions
displacement of error by truth, or if all truth-claims had the
some degree of probability or improbability, `Abdu’l-Bahá
could not speak meaningfully of the “progress science and
knowledge have made”261 since the inauguration of “the cycle of
Bahá’u’lláh.”262 Elsewhere He says, “at the time of the
appearance of each Manifestation of God extraordinary
progress has occurred in the world of minds, thoughts and
spirits.”263 Without improvements in knowledge there would
only be change and not progress; indeed, the whole idea of
progressive revelation is predicated on the progress i.e.
advancement of human kind. It is, therefore, clear that any
variant of scepticism would effectively negate two of the key
principles of progressive revelation, namely, that new
Manifestations appear because humankind has progressed to
the point of needing not just a renewal of the “eternal
verities”264 but also a new, more advanced teachings than
previous generations, and that the advent of the Manifestation
inaugurates a new era of progress and improvement.
SAQ encourages the conclusion that the senses, reason and
tradition may give us accurate knowledge, but that we must be
open to the possibility of error. This, of course, does not mean
we have to be sceptical as a matter of principle even when there
is no reason to be. SAQ does not to foster an all-corrosive
scepticism which would undermine even its own claims and
teachings on the importance of discovering the truth about
things. Furthermore, any wholesale rejection of reason would
undermine the teaching that the distinctively human attribute
is the “rational soul.”265 It would also contradict the praise
bestowed upon science, everything said about discovering
truths as well as the dictum that “in this age the peoples of the
world need the arguments of reason.”266
39. The Question of Certainty: Between Scylla and Charybdis
All this leads to an awkward and delicate question: ‘Can
human beings have certain knowledge?’ According to SAQ, the
answer is that in principle we can have “indubitable” knowledge
if we are open to the “bounty of the Holy Spirit.”
However, aside from this, the issue depends on what
definition we assign to ‘certainty.’ Were we to say that a fact
is certain if there is no reasonable evidence to doubt it — such
as ‘The Giants won Super Bowl 2008,’ ‘1 + 1 = 2’ and ‘People will
starve if they do not eat’ — then we can indeed have certain
knowledge. In other words, truth-claims can be accepted as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
certainly true if they meet four conditions: (a) there is evidence
supporting them; (b) there is no bona-fide evidence against
them; (c) they are not self-contradictory or self-refuting and do
not necessarily lead us to demonstrably false conclusions and
(d) they are not in conflict with the teachings of the
Manifestation. No one would seriously doubt that the Giants
won Super Bowl 2008 or that people who do not eat will starve
to death. The evidence for these truth-claims is overwhelming
and there simply is no evidence against them whatever. The
statements ‘The Giants won Super Bowl 2008’ or ‘People who do
not eat starve to death’ contain no self-contradictions’ neither
do they undermine themselves or necessarily lead us to other
palpably false conclusions. Finally, they are not in conflict with
the Writings. In other words, we can have provisional
certainty, i.e. certainty until bona-fide evidence to the
contrary appears. The arrival of such evidence and the
replacement of one truth-claim by a better, more adequate one
is precisely what happens in scientific, social or spiritual
progress.
The idea of provisional certainty of knowledge suggest that
because of the short-comings of the senses, reason and
tradition as `Abdu’l-Bahá points out, any truth-claim is open
in principle to correction although in practice there is no
reason to doubt to await such correction. Who would
seriously assert that people can live indefinitely without food?
The world is brim full of countless such ‘humble facts’ — fire is
hotter than rice, people cannot eat rocks, alligators are not
ducks, the sun appears to rise at dawn — that may be doubted
only in principle, but not in actual practice. They are
provisionally or practically certain — and even SAQ makes use
of them, as in the following example:
Afterward comes the summer, when the heat increases,
and growth and development attain their greatest
power. The energy of life in the vegetable kingdom
reaches to the degree of perfection, the fruit appears,
and the time of harvest ripens; a seed has become a
sheaf, and the food is stored for winter.267
Here is an example of sense observation that may be doubtable
in principle but is not doubtable in practice. However, rather
than state that this truth is absolute i.e. indubitable, we should
say that there are no reasons to doubt this — a formulation
that reminds us that all truth-claims, like all claims based on the

Some Answered Questions
senses, reason or tradition, are open to correction, at least in
principle.
In our understanding, SAQ essentially steers the middle
course of provisional certainty when the “bounty of the Holy
Spirit” is not involved. On one extreme is the Charybdis of a
rigid and dogmatic belief in our natural abilities to discover
absolute truth, a position that as `Abdu’l-Bahá points out, is
not warranted. On the other extreme is the Scylla of scepticism
and relativism which abandon all attempts to adjudicate
among truth-claims and, thereby, undermine the very concept
of progress — one of the foundation stones of this revelation —
as well as its epistemology of discovering truth and the
importance of education:
Human education signifies civilization and progress —
that is to say, government, administration, charitable
works, trades, arts and handicrafts, sciences, great
inventions and discoveries and elaborate institutions,
which
are
the
activities
essential
to
man
as
distinguished from the animal.268
The middle course between dogmatic certainty and an
equally dogmatic scepticism and relativism is one of the key
strategies for the unity of science and religion, at least on the
methodological level. Science employs this policy, i.e. a
properly established truth-claim is accepted as true until bona
fide contrary evidence appears and then appropriate changes
are made. Some truth-claims, such as the spherical form of the
earth, are so well established and unchallenged by contrary
evidence that for all practical purposes they are certain. They
meet all of the four criteria noted above. However, others, such
as higher level interpretations of complex data in cosmology or
quantum physics are far from certain and still subject to
debate. With some of these, we may never attain even practical
certainty — and it is important not to lump these in with the
‘humble facts’ about which practical certainty is possible.
40. Moderate Rationalism
As we have observed, `Abdu’l-Bahá does not regard reason as
a sufficient criterion of truth — and yet SAQ itself defines the
human soul as the “rational soul,”269 praises reason’s powers of
discovery and invention,270 and tells us that “in this age the
peoples of the world need the arguments of reason.”271 How are
we to reconcile the apparent contradiction in the praise of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
reason’s importance on one hand and the recognition of its
limits on the other?
The clearest solution is that SAQ exemplifies a position
known as moderate rationalism. If we ask the question, ‘How
much can reason know?’ there are basically three answers.
Extreme rationalism, as represented Spinoza, Leibniz and
modern positivists of various stripes, asserts that reason can
tell us everything that is genuine knowledge. Whatever is not
reasonable is not authentic knowledge; furthermore, there is
nothing that reason cannot tell us. This view represents an
absolute trust in the reliability of reason. Scepticism (and its
cousins relativism and nihilism) take the polar opposite view:
reason cannot give us any authentic knowledge since reason
itself is subject to challenge or is merely a prejudiced cultural
product that gives us nothing but viewpoints — but these are
not really knowledge per se. This view has its strongest
proponents
in
the
ancient
Sophists,
Nietzsche
and
contemporary
postmodernism.272
Moderate
rationalism,
however, maintains that reason can tell us some things but not
others, that reason is necessary but is not all-sufficient, that
other ways of knowing are possible. It can, for example,
accommodate belief in divine inspiration and revelation as
part of a rationally based hierarchy of knowing in which
rational knowledge leads us to a point where other forms of
knowing are necessary. Moderate rationalism recognises that
reason must be augmented by other powers — such as by the
“bounties of the Holy Spirit” mentioned in SAQ.
41. Knowledge of Essences
One of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s most significant statements on
epistemology concerns our knowledge of the essences of things.
He says,
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the
knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge
of its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through
its qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden. 273
Aside from the fact that this statement confirms the existence
of essences — thereby clearly making Bahá’í philosophy a type of
essentialism — `Abdu’l-Bahá informs us that essences can be
known. However, He clearly specifies that essences can only be
known by means of their qualities or attributes and cannot be
known immediately through direct insight. Indeed, “our

Some Answered Questions
knowledge of things, even of created and limited things, is
knowledge of their qualities and not of their essence”274 He
announces, and repeats this theme when He says,
For example, the inner essence of the sun is unknown,
but is understood by its qualities, which are heat and
light. The inner essence of man is unknown and not
evident, but by its qualities it is characterized and
known. Thus everything is known by its qualities and
not by its essence. Although the mind encompasses all
things, and the outward beings are comprehended by
it, nevertheless these beings with regard to their essence
are unknown; they are only known with regard to their
qualities.275
In passing, let us note again how this passage confirms the
possibility of genuine knowledge about things, although it
limits the means by which we may attain this knowledge. We
can only know through the outer qualities or attributes, which
can tell us some things about an object, but cannot tell us
about its essence, its en-soi or ‘in-itself,’ from ‘within.’ In
other words, we can only know things from the externalized
signs of their interaction with us, which establishes specific
limits on human knowledge. In the case of humans, we would
say that our subjectivity is unknowable by others; all we can
know are externalized attributes such as EEG graphs and verbal
reports. Here is a limitation of human knowledge, including
science: to paraphrase Schopenhauer, our scientific knowledge
is phenomenal (of external attributes) and not noumenal (of
essences).
It is important to avoid assuming that any and all
knowledge of essences is forbidden by `Abdu’l-Bahá. If this is
what He meant, we would be trapped in a terrible conundrum
because if qualities are not associated with an essence and
cannot give us knowledge about the essence, what are they
giving us knowledge about? Unattached qualities can’t give us
knowledge about anything — which opens the door to radical
scepticism and the impossibility of knowledge which in turn
denies the teachings about progress in science, society and
spirituality. How can we say we know about the sun if its
qualities are not somehow connected with it? Thus, it would
seem clear that `Abdu’l-Bahá is not setting the stage for such
virulent scepticism. Rather, what He says is that our knowledge
about the essence must come from its attributes i.e. by means
of the attributes and not from direct insight or intuition.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Furthermore, this knowledge is limited and cannot tell us
everything about an object for the good ontological reason
that every object always has a vast store of unactualised
potentials. (See the section on the composition of beings.)
Consequently, we conclude that SAQ does not absolutely
disallow knowledge of essences but disallows any direct access
to essences and requires use to gain our knowledge via the
attributes and to recognise that such knowledge has inherent
limits.
42. Objective and Subjective Knowledge
According to `Abdu’l-Bahá in SAQ, knowledge can be
divided into two major categories, both of which differ
essentially in kind and not merely in degree: subjective
knowledge and objective knowledge i.e. “an intuitive knowledge
and a knowledge derived from perception.”276 In objective
knowledge, which is “derived from perception” and belongs
“universally”277 (a essential species attribute) to all human
beings,
by the power of the mind the conception of an object
is formed, or from beholding an object the form is
produced in the mirror of the heart. The circle of this
knowledge is very limited because it depends upon
effort and attainment.278
The reference to the impression of the form of a perceived
object “in the mirror of the heart” agrees with the Athenian
tradition (especially Aristotle and Plotinus) that perception
concerns the form of things impressing themselves on the mind
or heart. However, this knowledge is limited “because it
depends on effort and attainment;” after all, our efforts suffer
not only the perceptive limitations of our species but also our
personal limitations. Such knowledge is external because it does
not originate within the object of perception.
By way of contrast, the Manifestation knows subjectively or
intuitively; this is “the knowledge of being, is intuitive; it is like
the cognizance and consciousness that man has of himself.”279
We, too, have subjective intuitive knowledge because “the
spirit surrounds the body”280 and is aware of the body’s
conditions as well as of all the body parts. However, in human
beings this capacity is limited to our own bodies; we cannot
actually feel another’s pain, despite our best efforts at

Some Answered Questions
empathy. The spirit knows the body from within because it is
in the higher ontological station of surrounding the body. The
Manifestations attain knowledge of the world in the same way
because He is on a higher ontological plane and spiritually
surrounds all lower beings.
Since the Sanctified Realities, the supreme Manifestations
of God, surround the essence and qualities of the creatures,
transcend and contain existing realities and understand all
things, therefore, Their knowledge is divine knowledge, and not
acquired — that is to say, it is a holy bounty; it is a divine
revelation.281
Such immediate and intuitive knowledge of created beings is
necessary because
unless He is aware of the realities of beings, will not
comprehend the essential connection which proceeds
from the realities of things, and He will certainly not
be able to establish a religion conformable to the facts
and suited to the conditions.282
Only
immediate
and
intuitive
knowledge
of
the
Manifestation can understand things from within, can
understand the essences or “realities of beings,” which means
that unlike scientists or any other human beings, the
Manifestation has access to the subjectivity of other beings.
For this reason He is able to understand “the essential
connections” which emanate from the essences or “realities of
things.”
Religion, then, is the necessary connection which
emanates from the reality of things; and as the supreme
Manifestations of God are aware of the mysteries of
beings, therefore, They understand this essential
connection, and by this knowledge establish the Law of
God.283
This means that the religion established by the Manifestation is
based on His immediate and intuitive knowledge of the
essences
or
realities
of
beings
and
their
“necessary
connections.” Because humankind does not and cannot possess
subjective or intuitive knowledge of those realities and the
connections between them, we must accept what the
Manifestation establishes as “the Law of God.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
From this situation it logically follows that humankind
could not reasonably challenge the “Laws of God”: we lack the
knowledge and insight to do so, nor will we ever be able to
acquire such knowledge. Since we cannot possibly ever possess
the necessary knowledge to base a challenge on the foundations
of knowledge, it makes no sense to do so. The necessary and
sufficient basis for any such challenge is missing. Indeed, it
would make more sense for a five year old to challenge the
judgment of an experienced physician (even a blind pig finds
the occasional acorn) than for humankind to challenge the
“Laws of God” established by the Manifestation. Thus, any
prohibition of challenging what the Manifestation establishes
is not evidence of domination, suppression or latent
totalitarianism but simply a rational outcome of the differing
ontological and subsequent epistemological situations of the
Manifestation and humankind.
43. Knowledge of God
One of the foundational principles of Bahá’í epistemology is
that the essence and attributes of God are unknowable to
humankind.
For the essence and the attributes of the Lord of Unity are in
the heights of sanctity, and for the minds and understandings
there is no way to approach that position. ‘The way is closed,
and seeking is forbidden.’284
Previously in this paper, we have already seen the ontological
reason why this is so: “everything which is lower is powerless to
comprehend the reality of that which is higher.”285 Although
humankind is obviously on a lower ontological level than God
and, therefore, barred from directly acquiring knowledge of
Him, this does not mean that such knowledge is impossible to
attain:
But for this Essence of the essences, this Truth of
truths, this Mystery of mysteries, there are reflections,
auroras, appearances and resplendencies in the world
of existence. The dawning-place of these splendors, the
place of these reflections, and the appearance of these
manifestations are the Holy Dawning-places, the
Universal Realities and the Divine Beings, Who are the
true mirrors of the sanctified Essence of God. All the
perfections, the bounties, the splendors which come

Some Answered Questions
from God are visible and evident in the Reality of the
Holy Manifestations.286
For this reason, “all that the human reality knows, discovers
and understands of the names, the attributes and the
perfections of God refer to these Holy Manifestations.”287
Thus, “if man attains to the knowledge of the Manifestations
of God, he will attain to the knowledge of God.288
In light of these statements, it becomes clear that SAQ
steers a middle course between an apophatic theology
according to which all descriptions and conceptualizations of
God and subsequent discussions are false and should be
avoided because God’s essence is unknowable, and, on the
other hand, an extreme natural theology which tries to deduce
knowledge of God’s essence and attributes by humankind’s
natural powers without divine revelation through the
Manifestation. SAQ’s position seems to be that correct
reasoning about God and His attributes is possible — but it
must be based on and checked against what the Manifestation
reveals. Furthermore, we must remember that what the
Manifestation reveals is a limited and adapted not only to our
human capacities but also to what is comprehensible and
practical in our particular cultural-spiritual milieu. We may
know about God but only indirectly, in a mediated manner,
and in a manner consistent with our human, personal and
cultural capacity.
Of course, such limitations do not mean that the knowledge
of God we obtain is incorrect. How could it be if it comes
from the Manifestation? Moreover, as shown before,
‘incomplete’ does not mean ‘incorrect.’ Therefore, it is
apparent that we do indeed have knowledge of God, but it is
knowledge that comes to us via a particular route — the
Manifestation — and not by means of direct personal insight
or by mystical experience of God or His attributes.
The fact that we do, in fact, receive correct knowledge about
God from the Manifestation has an important consequence: it
means that on the basis of what has been revealed about God’s
attributes by the Manifestations, we can legitimately reason
about the implications and meaning of these attributes for us.
In other words, the denial of any direct knowledge of God’s
essence or attributes does not foreclose reasonable dialogue on
this subject though it does undercut dogmatic claims in any
dialogue based on what the Manifestation reveals. It does not,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
of course, prohibit categorical rejection of claims that
contradict what the Manifestation says not to mention any
dismissal of God’s existence.
A final note in regard to the limitation of our knowledge by
our specifically human capacity and our personal and cultural
condition: this accords with one of the key principles of the
Athenian tradition in philosophy, namely, that all knowledge is
known according to the nature/essence and condition of the
knower. Animals, for example, can only know through the
senses whereas humans know through the senses as well as their
rational capacities. This principle is implicitly present in the
statement that “the differences of conditions in the world of
beings is an obstacle to comprehension.”289 Our place on the
ontological scale of being determines what we can and cannot
know. Agreement on this principle is another major
connection between SAQ and the Athenian tradition.
44. God’s Knowledge
In SAQ’s epistemology, God is “omniscient”290 because, as
we have seen, He surrounds all creation and, for that reason,
has immediate access to all that can be known. The
ontologically higher comprehends the lower, and the highest
comprehends all. There can be no obstacles to God’s
comprehension since anything that could be an obstacle would
be something with the power to limit God and this is
impossible: “God is powerful, omnipotent.”291 At this point,
the differences between God’s knowledge and that of other
beings can still be rationally explained in terms of the
ontological schema established in SAQ.
However, SAQ also points to one fundamental difference
between God’s knowledge and the knowledge of His creatures.
For human beings to have knowledge requires that there be an
object of knowledge, a tree, a person, an idea, a feeling —
something which is present to a subject. According to SAQ,
this is not the case with God Who, unlike other beings, does
not need an object of knowledge:
The Prophets say, The Knowledge of God has no need
of the existence of beings, but the knowledge of the
creature needs the existence of things known; if the
Knowledge of God had need of any other thing, then it
would be the knowledge of the creature, and not that of
God … The phenomenal knowledge [the knowledge of

Some Answered Questions
created beings] has need of things known; the
Preexistent
Knowledge
is
independent
of
their
existence.292
To need objects of knowledge would be a sign of
imperfection in God since that would put God in the position
of needing something other than Himself. This would be an
imperfection and would, in effect, make God’s knowledge
contingent or dependent on something else — which is an
impossibility because “sanctification from imperfections [] is
one of His necessary properties.”293 From divine perfection it
follows logically that God’s knowledge cannot be dependent on
anything else. However, if we attempt to understand this from
a purely natural point of view we may appreciate why things
must be this way but not how such knowledge can exist: “these
divine and perfect attributes are not so understood by the
intelligence that we can decide if the Divine Knowledge has need
of things known or not.”294 We are simply incapable of
knowing how knowledge can exist independently of an object
of knowledge present to a subject and, consequently, must
accept what the Manifestation and His authorized and divinely
guided interpreters tell us. Although the details of the belief
itself cannot be explained to us, the foundation of the belief,
namely, that God is necessarily independent of all things, is
rational.
45. Mind
According to SAQ, mind is an essential attribute of the
human spirit, i.e. a quality without which the human spirit
could not be itself. In short, it is an aspect of the essence of the
human spirit.
the mind is the power of the human spirit. Spirit is the
lamp; mind is the light which shines from the lamp.
Spirit is the tree, and the mind is the fruit. Mind is the
perfection of the spirit and is its essential quality, as
the sun’s rays are the essential necessity of the sun.295
`Abdu’l-Bahá also describes the mind as a “power,” or
capacity to interact with the world in a certain way, i.e. to
acquire knowledge and form judgments. In the metaphor of the
mind as the fruit of the tree of the human spirit, as “the
perfection of the spirit,” He indicates that mind is the ultimate
purpose of spirit, its entelechy, that for which spirit exists. The
same idea is conveyed by the metaphor of the mind as light

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
from the lamp of the spirit; a lamp has no other reason to exist
than the production of light. Moreover, light enables us to
distinguish between things, and thereby establishes the basis of
all knowledge.
As we have had occasion to observe, the human mind
because of its high ontological position, “encompasses all
things”296 at least outwardly or phenomenally. However, it
cannot know their essences directly but only learn about them
by way of their qualities. SAQ makes it clear that the mind can
acquire truth and make something of these findings, though, of
course, the mind also can deceive itself.
The mind and the thought of man sometimes discover
truths, and from this thought and discovery signs and
results are produced. This thought has a foundation.
But many things come to the mind of man which are
like the waves of the sea of imaginations; they have no
fruit, and no result comes from them.297
We can distinguish between mere imaginings and realities by
the lack of results. SAQ therefore seems to adopt a pragmatic
test to determine which discoveries are genuine knowledge and
which are fantasies.
46. Mind is Not Brain
Another attribute of the mind is that it is not subject to
time and space: “Place and time surround the body, not the
mind and spirit.”298 Simply put, locality in space and time to
do not apply to the mind; it is, to use a word from physics,
‘non-local.’ This allows “the spirit and mind of man [to] travel
to all countries and regions — even through the limitless space
of the heaven.”299 Such freedom from material conditions is
significant because it means that according to SAQ, mind
cannot be identified with or reduced to brain since the latter is
a purely material entity and mind is not. Unlike material
beings, “mind itself is an intellectual thing which has no
outward existence.”300 The distinction between mind and brain
is reinforced by the following statement:
Thus consider what thousands of vicissitudes can
happen to the body of man, but the spirit is not
affected by them; it may even be that some members of
the body are entirely crippled, but the essence of the
mind remains and is everlasting.301

Some Answered Questions
Like spirit, mind is independent of the body, though not, as
we shall see, unconnected. The body cannot hinder the spirit in
itself but it can hinder the expression of that spirit in the
material world. The fact that the brain and spirit/mind are
distinct and separable (at death) but not unconnected entities
in this life suggests that the brain is only the material organ
through which mind manifests temporarily in the material
world.
Emphasising the difference between the mind and material
objects, `Abdu’l-Bahá points out that the mind is not involved
in physical motion of any kind:
Moreover, entrance and exit, descent and ascent, are
characteristics of bodies and not of spirits — that is to
say, sensible realities enter and come forth, but
intellectual subtleties and mental realities, such as
intelligence, love, knowledge, imagination and thought,
do not enter, nor come forth, nor descend, but rather
they have direct connection.302
In reading this, we must recall that the mind is a power of the
human spirit and shares its essential attributes and, therefore,
does not conform to the laws of material behavior. For this
reason it would be fallacious to attempt to study the mind by
scientific methods which have been specifically developed to
study material entities and their behaviors for to do so would
be confuse and conflate two different kinds of beings. Brain
research cannot tell us about the mind per se; what it can do is
tell us about how the mind acts through the material medium of
the brain i.e. about the material signs of the mind’s action. If
we wish to study the mind itself, other methods of study not
based on material objects must be developed.
If mind and body/brain are not identical, and are essentially
independent, then it is necessary to question how they are
connected. SAQ does not provide a technically detailed answer
to this question but instead supplies a metaphorical model
from which we can develop one or more solutions. Let us begin
by examining the relationship between the body and the human
spirit of which the body is a particular material instantiation.
According to SAQ, “the connection of the spirit with the body
is like that of the sun with the mirror.”303 Elsewhere it says,
This perfected body can be compared to a mirror, and
the human spirit to the sun. Nevertheless, if the mirror
breaks, the bounty of the sun continues; and if the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
mirror is destroyed or ceases to exist, no harm will
happen to the bounty of the sun which is everlasting.304
We should keep in mind that if the body functions like a
mirror, then obviously the brain — also a part of the body —
does too. The image of the sun in the mirror is used elsewhere in
SAQ to explain the connection between spirit and body: “the
spirit is connected with the body, as this light is with this
mirror.”305 `Abdu’l-Bahá also says, “The sun is not within the
mirror, but it has a connection with the mirror.”306 The import
of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement is that the mind — which is an
essential attribute of the human spirit — acts through the brain
the same way the image of the sun acts in the mirror.
47. Brain and Mind — A Formal Connection
Examining the nature of this connection, we find that the
sun is in the mirror not substantially but formally. The actual
sun is not in actually (ontologically) present in the mirror.
Instead, the form of the sun is present in the mirror and it is
there because the emanations of the sun, the light, condition
the mirror in a specific way to reflect the sun’s image. In other
words, the sun is formally but not substantially present and
through this formal presence conditions or determines what the
mirror reflects. (How, i.e. to what degree of brightness or
accuracy the mirror reflects depends on the qualities of the
mirror but that is a another issue.) In the same way, the “the
mind is connected with the acquisition of knowledge, like
images reflected in a mirror.”307 The mind is conditioned by the
formal presence of the images that it receives inasmuch as every
perception and idea or conception has its own specific form to
distinguish it from others. This form is what conditions the
mind so that it acquires information and knowledge:
the knowledge of things which men universally have is
gained by reflection or by evidence — that is to say,
either by the power of the mind the conception of an
object is formed, or from beholding an object the form
is produced in the mirror of the heart.308
Whether it be the form of a perceived object or the
particular form of an idea or conception, the mind seems to
work by means of conditioning by formal causality. Formal
causality — which we have already encountered in `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s explication of four-fold causality acts as a cause
because it shapes or conditions something, which has an effect

Some Answered Questions
on how the conditioned object inter-acts with other things. A
piece of bronze in the form of a statue and the same bronze re-
cast as a suit of armour will inter-act differently with their
surroundings. Substantially they are the same but formally they
are not and this formal difference is decisive. This is an
example of formal causality in action.
The conclusion seems clear: mind and brain/body are
distinct and separate entities but are connected nevertheless:
“the mind has no place, but it is connected with the brain.”309
Thus, SAQ suggests a mind-brain dualism, the two being
different kinds of entities. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “spirit is
different from the body.”310 Indeed, He elaborates further,
adding, “the spirit of man is not in the body because it is freed
and sanctified from entrance and exit.”311 Mind, we must
recall is a power or attribute of the spirit. However, because
mind/spirit and body are connected, SAQ’s teachings about
the mind and body/brain cannot be taken as encouragement to
adopt occasionalism, the belief that mind and brain are so
different that they cannot interact and therefore require God
to coordinate their activities. Leibniz’ variation of this — the
doctrine of pre-established harmony — states that God had
arranged the universe so that all apparent cases of cause-and-
effect arose in a divinely pre-established sequences without any
interaction.312 This, too, violates the formal causality that is
implicit in the image of the sun and the mirror.
This is, in our view, as far as we can go in understanding
how the mind works if we limit ourselves to SAQ. Of course,
SAQ does not go into the technical details of formal causality,
but in the image of the sun and the mirror, it provides us with
a direction in which to seek more detailed answer and to
exclude certain viewpoints such as the identity of brain and
mind. As `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “This explanation, though short, is
complete; therefore, reflect upon it, and if God wills, you may
become acquainted with the details.”313
According to SAQ, the human mind is not the only mind in
existence. There is also the “First Mind”:
the first thing which emanated from God is that
universal reality, which the ancient philosophers termed
the ‘First Mind,’ and which the people of Bahá call the
‘First Will.’ This emanation, in that which concerns its
action in the world of God, is not limited by time or

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
place; it is without beginning or end — beginning and
end in relation to God are one.314
Like the human mind, it is not limited by time and space,
though as the first emanation, it is on a higher ontological
plane than humankind or nature and can, therefore, surround
or comprehend more of reality. Elsewhere `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
But the universal divine mind, which is beyond nature,
is the bounty of the Preexistent Power. This universal
mind is divine; it embraces existing realities, and it
receives the light of the mysteries of God. It is a
conscious power, not a power of investigation and of
research.315
Because this mind, which is a “bounty” or emanation of God,
is not subject to the laws of time and space, it is “beyond
nature” and surrounds all other things. For that reason, too, it
is a “conscious power,” i.e. a power that knows subjectively,
immediately and intuitively and is not dependent on
investigation, research and discursive reasoning. Furthermore,
This divine intellectual power [the “universal divine
mind”]
is
the
special
attribute
of
the
Holy
Manifestations
and
the
Dawning-places
of
prophethood; a ray of this light falls upon the mirrors
of the hearts of the righteous, and a portion and a
share of this power comes to them through the Holy
Manifestations.316
This divine mind, which is an essential attribute of the
Manifestations, helps establish a rational foundation for the
belief that the Manifestation possesses universal knowledge of
all creation and must, therefore be obeyed even though we, who
lack such knowledge, do not always understand.
48. Infallibility
Perhaps one of the most controversial aspects of SAQ’s
epistemology is the concept of infallibility. According to
`Abdu’l-Bahá, there are two kinds of infallibility, “essential
infallibility and acquired infallibility”317 which He compares to
“essential knowledge and acquired knowledge.”318 As we recall
from our examination of ontology and onto-theology, the
Manifestation is on a higher ontological plane than creation
and, therefore, comprehends or surrounds, which is to say, He
can know its conditions subjectively within Himself. His

Some Answered Questions
“knowledge of being, is intuitive; it is like the cognizance and
consciousness that man has of himself.”319 The Manifestation
knows creation the way He knows Himself and, therefore, is
able to reveal perfect laws that meet all of the hidden and overt
needs of creation. Our insight, of course, is only partial which
is why it is inappropriate for us to critique His
commandments. This explanation shows why the “Most Great
Infallibility”320 of the Manifestation is a necessary consequence
of His ontological position.
The second kind of infallibility is “acquired infallibility”321
which is bestowed by God upon some special souls: “Although
these souls have not essential infallibility, still they are under
the protection of God — that is to say, God preserves them
from error.322 These souls cannot be essentially infallible
because, unlike the Manifestations, they do not surround or
comprehend creation. However, the “protection of God …
preserves them from error” because if it did not, “their error
would cause believing souls to fall into error, and thus the
foundation of the Religion of God would be overturned, which
would not be fitting nor worthy of God.”323 This protection
from error extends to the Universal House of Justice as an
institution (not to its individual members) and in this case is
called “conferred infallibility.”324
The doctrine of infallibility has generated considerable
discussion about what it actually means. The ontological
foundations of the concept of the Manifestation show that the
“essential infallibility” of the Manifestation potentially covers
all areas of knowledge; He surrounds all creation not just parts
of it. There is no indication of a limitation to ‘faith and
morals’ or to anything else: “whatever emanates from Them is
identical with the truth, and conformable to reality.”325 The
Manifestation, after all, is not simply another human being like
the rest of us, occupying a higher plane of being.
The case of “acquired” and “conferred” infallibility is
somewhat
different
because
human
beings
lack
the
Manifestation’s superior ontological station. Consequently, it
may be possible to limit the range of infallibility to matters of
faith and morals, i.e. to that which affects our conduct as
Bahá’ís and to what the Writings declare to be true. This
practical limitation is evident in the concern that if holy souls
were not safe-guarded from error, they would mislead others.326
Here we have a more practical concern about why “acquired” or
“conferred” infallibility is necessary. However, in SAQ we find

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
no evidence that “infallibility” is limited to a condition of
‘sinlessness’ as has been suggested. It very clearly refers to
knowledge of various kinds and not to personal states of being.
IV. Philosophical Anthropology
Philosophical anthropology, which originates with Kant’s
Anthropology from a Pragmatic Viewpoint, is a branch of
philosophy that explores the individual and collective nature of
humankind. It may also be called ‘theory of man.’ It examines
such subjects as individual and collective human nature,
humankind’s position and role in the universe and the purpose
of human existence. Philosophical anthropology has enormous
relevance to human existence. For example, all religions, all
systems of ethics are explicitly or implicitly based on a theory
of man. The same is true for all legal systems as well as all
systems of psychology and education. Each of these endeavours
makes assumptions about what people ‘are like,’ their needs and
desires, reasonable obligations as well as innate capacities. A
theory of man is also embedded in all cultures.
49. Human Nature
We shall begin this survey of the philosophical anthropology
in SAQ with an examination of its theory of human nature.
The very possession of such a theory is controversial in today’s
intellectual climate since such influential philosophies as
Sartrean existentialism and postmodernism completely reject
the idea of there being a given, universal human nature. Sartre
first sounded this note in 1943 in Being and Nothingness which
is based on the premise the “existence precedes essence,” that we
are not ‘oppressed’ by a pre-given, ready-made human nature
applicable to all persons but that we must make ourselves
through our own choices and actions. Without exception, all
major postmodernist philosophers follow Sartre on this point,
a position described most succinctly by Lyotard as a rejection
of “metanarratives.”327 A “metanarrative” is a universal
explanatory paradigm which purports to provide true
explanations of phenomena of a certain kind.
Sartrean
existentialism
and
postmodernism
notwith-
standing, SAQ promulgates the concept of a human nature
explicitly and implicitly in various ways and contexts. For
example, in His discussion of human evolution, `Abdu’l-Bahá
says, “For the proof of the originality of the human species,

Some Answered Questions
and of the permanency of the nature of man, is clear and
evident.”328 The nature of humankind exists, is stable and
“permanent” and, above all, “is clear and evident.” By
describing its existence and permanency as “clear and evident,”
`Abdu’l-Bahá, in effect, suggesting that those who disagree are
not seeing the evidence or not evaluating the evidence properly.
In short, He is dismissing their views as fundamentally
ignorant. Vis-à-vis ethics, He says that those who follow the
Manifestation are “delivered from the animal characteristics
and qualities which are the characteristics of human nature.”329
On a similar note, He points out that “brutal qualities exist in
the nature of man.”330 These remarks simply affirm the
existence of human nature as part of a discussing human
morality or lack of it. The same occurs in His discussion of
human evolution in which He refers to the human embryo
developing “until it reaches the degree of reason and
perfection.”331 The concept of human nature is also implicit in
the ontological hierarchy in which humankind is at the summit
because it possesses all the powers of the lower vegetable and
animal levels. Human nature also lifts humankind above the
rest of nature: neither sun nor sea “can never comprehend the
conditions, the state, the qualities, the movements and the
nature of man.”332
However, `Abdu’l-Bahá does not just refer to human nature
in passing; rather He provides a detailed picture of some of its
foundational attributes. These are common to all human
beings at all times and in all cultures — which is, of course,
what we would expect from a religious world-view that teaches
the essential oneness of humankind. Without such a universal
human nature, there would be no basis for the unification of
humankind because there would be no basis on which to
develop global teachings.
In SAQ, the most obvious attribute of human nature is that
we are essentially spiritual beings. This fact is reflected in our
ontological structure: “ the rational soul is the substance, and
the body depends upon it. If the accident — that is to say, the
body — be destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains.”333
Briefly, in the Athenian tradition which this statement
exemplifies, the substance (not to be confused with matter) is
independent in its existence and possess certain qualities called
‘accidents.’ These accidents are not necessary to the existence
of the substance and can be altered without affecting the
identity or existence of the substance. For example, a cat is a
substance, but its color is an accident; if the color is changed,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
the same cat continues to exist. Stating that the rational soul is
the substance, means that soul is what we essentially are and
that our bodily existence is a temporary ‘accident.’ From this it
follows that the soul and the body are not the same kinds of
‘things’ — which, in effect, is a form of soul/body dualism —
and that the soul is immortal because it is capable of existing
without the accidental body. All of these assertions are
universally true of all human beings at all times, in all places
and under all circumstances. In other words, here we find the
basis of anthropological essentialism in SAQ, which does not
agree with Sartre’s claim that “existence precedes essence.”
Not only are we essentially spiritual beings, but share the
same essential attributes:
This spiritual nature, which came into existence
through the bounty of the Divine Reality, is the union
of all perfections and appears through the breath of the
Holy Spirit. It is the divine perfections; it is light,
spirituality, guidance, exaltation, high aspiration,
justice, love, grace, kindness to all, philanthropy, the
essence of life.334
Spirit is the source of our “perfections” with which to
overcome the imperfections of our physical nature which is
subject to “anger, jealousy, dispute, covetousness, avarice,
ignorance, prejudice, hatred, pride and tyranny.”335 According
to `Abdu’l-Bahá, our task and destiny is to perfect our human
existence by strengthening and developing the spiritual aspects
of our nature. This means that human beings share a universal
duty and destiny — a struggle to control our unruly animal
nature and make it work for the good of the soul and our
spiritual development. Both as individuals and collectives we
succeed in varying degrees in this process and sometimes slip
into complete failure.
As shown throughout SAQ, all of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s teachings
about philosophical anthropology is premised on our essential
identity as spiritual beings and the primacy of the soul over the
material body. This brings in its train a host of profound
consequences for the conduct of individual lives and the
management of society. For example, it enlarges our
perspective on what is meant by ‘doing good’ or ‘reducing
harm’ because we must not only consider the good of the body
but also the good of the soul. It will deeply affect education
policy in such areas as curriculum because questions of

Some Answered Questions
spiritual education cannot be circumvented or ignored
outright. Recognising the primacy of the spirit in our
constitution will also have effects on our personal and
collective scale of values which in turn affects decisions at
every level and at every turn. Most obviously this would affect
the operations of a consumer-driven economy or, at least, the
kind of products in demand, especially if large numbers of
people were to believe “[t]he rewards of this life are the virtues
and perfections which adorn the reality of man”336 and not the
acquisition of ‘things’ or material wealth. These rewards are
attainable both in the earthly life and in the next.
50. The Soul and Immortality
As already noted, the fact that the soul is a substance and
the body an accident is the basis for an ontological proof for
the immortality of the soul, which according to SAQ is “the
fundamental basis of the divine religions.”337 `Abdu’l-Bahá
refers not only to traditional religious traditions to establish
the immortality of the spirit — the Gospels and the Qur’án —
but also to logical proofs which we shall briefly examine. One
of these proofs is that, as just demonstrated, that the spirit or
substance is independent of the body or accident. The spirit,
He says, can see and hear without sense organs and even travel
as it does during sleep without any material means338;
furthermore, the spirit is unaffected by the illnesses and
debilities of the body.339 Because “the spirit is different from
the body”340 it continues to exist even when the body
disintegrates.
At this point it is apropos to note that not just the soul but
also the personality is independent of the body as well.
The personality of the rational soul is from its
beginning; it is not due to the instrumentality of the
body, but the state and the personality of the rational
soul may be strengthened in this world; it will make
progress and will attain to the degrees of perfection, or
it will remain in the lowest abyss of ignorance, veiled
and deprived from beholding the signs of God.341
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s wording here shows His awareness of a long-
standing subject of debate in the Athenian tradition, namely,
the origin of the individual personality. Since there exists an
essence shared by all humans, what is it that individualises us?
One answer is that individualization occurs through the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
particular body we possess, i.e. matter is what individualises.
Another is that form, not matter, individualises, i.e. each thing
possesses a “haecceitas” or ‘this-ness’ that makes it the specific
thing it is.342 As the foregoing quotation from SAQ shows,
`Abdu’l-Bahá plainly takes the latter view that the “personality
of the rational soul” exists from the start and does not depend
on the body to be. Experience in the world may strengthen the
personality but it can only actualise what is already potential
in it. This original personality is part of the innate character
that we all possess. The innate character willed discussed in
greater detail below.
Another proof of immortality is based on the premise
that no sign can come from a nonexisting thing — that
is to say, it is impossible that from absolute
nonexistence signs should appear — for the signs are the
consequence of an existence, and the consequence
depends upon the existence of the principle.343
In other words, non-existent entities cannot produce results
i.e. cannot actualise potentials either in themselves or in
something else for the obvious reason that as non-existent they
have no potentials and they certainly cannot act as efficient
causes actualising potentials elsewhere because they do not
exist! However, after the death of the body, the human spirit
“persists and continues to act and to have power.”344 The
evidence offered is the “Kingdom of Christ”345 which continues
to exist and influence the world long after the death of Christ’s
body. For this to occur, the ‘Christ-spirit’ must continue to
exist in some form.
Along with the “logical proofs” `Abdu’l-Bahá also offers
what might be called a direct proof of immediate insight, such
as we have already discussed in the epistemology section of this
paper. If we open our “inner sight,” we shall need no discursive
proofs of immortality because we shall be able to apprehend
this fact immediately for ourselves.
But if the human spirit will rejoice and be attracted to
the Kingdom of God, if the inner sight becomes
opened, and the spiritual hearing strengthened, and the
spiritual feelings predominant, he will see the im-
mortality of the spirit as clearly as he sees the sun…346

Some Answered Questions
If we attain the right spiritual condition, we see truths such
as the immortality of the soul by immediate insight rather than
by discursive argument.
51. The Rational Soul
Another far-reaching attribute of human nature is the
possession of a rational soul:
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the
animal is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one
thing. This spirit, which in the terminology of the phil-
osophers is the rational soul, embraces all beings…347
`Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear that the rational soul
differentiates humanity from animals, and is, therefore, an
essential, i.e. defining characteristic of all human beings.
Individuals and cultures may not always make use of this
rational power to the same extent but it is universal, i.e. always
there whenever and wherever humans exist.
The first condition of perception in the world of
nature is the perception of the rational soul. In this
perception and in this power all men are sharers,
whether they be neglectful or vigilant, believers or
deniers.348
This statement has far-reaching consequences because it means
that at least in principle, we possess a universal standard, an
‘Archimedean standpoint’ by which to evaluate individual and
collective action and beliefs. He himself does not hesitate to
apply it. For example, He dismisses the traditional Christian
account of original sin as “unreasonable and evidently
wrong”349 for various reasons. Similarly, in rejecting the
traditional Christian interpretation of the Trinity He states,
If it were otherwise [than his explanation], the
foundations of the Religion of God would rest upon
an illogical proposition which the mind could never
conceive, and how can the mind be forced to believe a
thing which it cannot conceive? A thing cannot be
grasped by the intelligence except when it is clothed in
an intelligible form; otherwise, it is but an effort of the
imagination.350

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Even religion must have rational foundations because, given
our nature as a “rational soul,” we cannot even “conceive” of
teachings which rest on “an illogical proposition.” If we
cannot “conceive” of an idea, how can we as rational beings,
believe? In other words, a belief must have a sufficient reason
that explains why it (or any other phenomenon) is what it is.
Otherwise the belief becomes problematical. Because of our
“rational souls” neither individuals nor cultures can accept
insufficient explanations which is why they all persons and
cultures develop various explanations for phenomena. The
form and details of these explanations may differ, but all are
attempts to satisfy the principle of sufficient reason.
52. Humankind’s Dual Nature
Unlike the lower level of being, humanity has a dual nature,
i.e. it is a composite of two natures:
Know that there are two natures in man: the physical
nature and the spiritual nature. The physical nature is
inherited from Adam, and the spiritual nature is
inherited from the Reality of the Word of God, which
is the spirituality of Christ. The physical nature is born
of Adam, but the spiritual nature is born from the
bounty of the Holy Spirit. The first is the source of all
imperfection; the second is the source of all
perfection.351
The first noteworthy issue here is that this statement is
about humankind in general, i.e. it is a universal statement
about human nature. The two-part structure constitutes a
fundamental feature of what it means to be human at all times
and places, and in all cultures or stages of collective
development. There is no suggestion in SAQ (or anywhere else
in the Writings) that any exceptions exist or that our two-part
constitutional nature will change during the course of human
evolution on earth. Second, this duality is hierarchical, with the
spiritual part taking precedence over the physical or animal
nature
which
is
associated
with
“imperfection.”
The
Manifestations appear so that “men might be freed from the
imperfections of the physical nature and might become
possessed of the virtues of the spiritual nature.”352 Of course,
this is not to say that our physical aspect is of no value but
only that for it to function for our complete well-being it must
be properly subordinated by our spiritual higher nature. Here

Some Answered Questions
we see yet another confirmation of the hierarchical ontology at
work in SAQ.
53. Inherent Struggle Between Higher and Lower Natures
Third, it follows from `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that humans
are divided between a higher and lower nature and that we are
inherently conflicted beings always engaged in a struggle within
ourselves. Hence, we are often forced to choose between
following these two natures, between “imperfection” and
“perfection,” and since this make dualism constitutes our
nature, there is no way this struggle can be overcome
completely; it constitutes who and what we are. However, the
struggle between these two principles must not be seen as an
imperfection in itself; rather it is a necessary pre-condition for
our ethical existence, i.e. for us to attain increasing perfection
by means of free choice among real alternatives. To help us
make that choice is precisely the reason for the existence of
Manifestations if we choose to accept it. In other words, this
division between our two natures is the condition for
humankind’s ability to rise to greater heights of spiritual
development. Without it, any moral ascent is impossible.
Finally, this dual constitution reflects humankind’s two-fold
ontological position in creation.
Man is in the highest degree of materiality, and at the
beginning of spirituality — that is to say, he is the end
of imperfection and the beginning of perfection. He is
at the last degree of darkness, and at the beginning of
light; that is why it has been said that the condition of
man is the end of the night and the beginning of day,
meaning that he is the sum of all the degrees of
imperfection, and that he possesses the degrees of
perfection. He has the animal side as well as the angelic
side and the aim of an educator is to so train human
souls that their angelic aspect may overcome their
animal side.353
Ontologically speaking, humanity occupies a dual station as
the apex of “materiality” but also as the “beginning of
spirituality” and this dual station reflects itself in our two
natures. We are the transition point from “materiality” to
spirituality and have attributes of both. This helps explain our
ethical ambiguity; because we are the “last degree of darkness”
we are capable of tremendous evil and because we are

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
“beginning of light” we are also capable of great good. No
individual, no collective and no culture have ever been able to
escape this fundamental ambiguity which is, therefore, also a
universal attribute of humankind.
54. The Purpose of Earthly Existence
The existence of this perpetual moral struggle within
humankind inevitably raises the question of what is the purpose
in requiring the human soul to go through the difficult phase of
bodily being. Here is one part of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s answer:
The wisdom of the appearance of the spirit in the body
is this: the human spirit is a Divine Trust, and it must
traverse all conditions, for its passage and movement
through the conditions of existence will be the means
of its acquiring perfections …354
In other words, the purpose of physical existence is to help the
soul acquire “perfections,” i.e. to develop its inherent
capacities, accumulate experience and knowledge and, through
free choice, attain spiritual virtues. Without this passage
through physical being, there could be no real qualitative
growth,
learning
and
maturation;
we
would
remain
unactualised potentials and, therefore, not fully ourselves.
However, there is another, ontological and cosmic reason for
our bodily existence:
Besides this, it is necessary that the signs of the
perfection of the spirit should be apparent in this
world, so that the world of creation may bring forth
endless results, and this body may receive life and
manifest the divine bounties … If the rays and heat of
the sun did not shine upon the earth, the earth would be
uninhabited, without meaning; and its development
would be retarded. In the same way, if the perfections
of the spirit did not appear in this world, this world
would be unenlightened and absolutely brutal. By the
appearance of the spirit in the physical form, this
world is enlightened.355
In other words, humanity is the means by which the
“perfections of the spirit” appear in the material world and,
thereby, render it “enlightened.” Without this spiritual
enlightenment the world would be “absolutely brutal” (“nasty,
brutish and short” to borrow Hobbes’ phrase.) i.e. bereft of

Some Answered Questions
the virtues of knowledge and understanding, as well as
completely subject to the lowest animal impulses such as greed,
violence, lust, sloth or laziness and self-centeredness.
Humankind, therefore, is the agency through which a new,
transcendent spiritual dimension begins to play a role in the
material world by adding a new feature to the one-dimensional
material existence. At this point it is tempting to think of
Teilhard de Chardin’s theory of the noosphere as the
specifically human contribution to the evolution of the
material world. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements certainly are in
harmony with this line of thought. He says that without
humanity, the material universe would have no purpose for its
existence (recall our earlier discussion of teleology): “This world
is also in the condition of a fruit tree, and man is like the fruit;
without fruit the tree would be useless.”356 Like the fruit of a
tree, humankind is the noblest product of the material world,
and, for that reason, its raison d’etre. In other words, the
existence of humankind has a cosmological and evolutionary
function. From this perspective, humankind is not simply an
accidental development on the planet but rather a necessary
occurrence.
Humankind is able to be the spiritual enlightener of the
material world only because it exists both in materiality and
spirituality. We possess the necessary and sufficient material
conditions to attract the influence of the spirit in the same
way that a clear mirror is able to receive and reflect the sun.
these members, these elements, this composition, which
are found in the organism of man, are an attraction
and magnet for the spirit; it is certain that the spirit
will appear in it. So a mirror which is clear will
certainly attract the rays of the sun … when these
existing elements are gathered together according to the
natural order, and with perfect strength, they become a
magnet for the spirit, and the spirit will become
manifest in them with all its perfections.357
In other words, the physical constitution of human beings is
sufficiently complex and sensitive enough to “become a magnet
for the spirit” and allow the spirit to become manifest in the
material world. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá this course of
events is necessary because
the connection which exists between the reality of
things, whether they be spiritual or material, requires

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
that when the mirror is clear and faces the sun, the light
of the sun must become apparent in it. In the same
way, when the elements are arranged and combined in
the most glorious system, organization and manner,
the human spirit will appear and be manifest in them.
This is the decree of the Powerful, the Wise.358
In this passage, `Abdu’l-Bahá draws our attention to a
fundamental cosmic law established by God in His design of
the universe. It is as much a law as the law of gravity or the
Boyle gas laws. This law forms a “connection” which joins all
aspects of reality into a single whole and is, thereby, a universal
connective principle that joins different ontological levels of
reality, in this case, the material and the spiritual.
We
also
observe
a
correspondence
between
the
Manifestation enlightening us spiritually, and we, in turn,
bringing signs of the spirit into the material realm. This is
confirmed when `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
As the spirit of man is the cause of the life of the body,
so the world is in the condition of the body, and man
is in the condition of the spirit. If there were no man,
the perfections of the spirit would not appear, and the
light of the mind would not be resplendent in this
world. This world would be like a body without a
soul.359
By means of its analogy of the “spirit of man” and the human
body, this passage suggests that humankind provides a soul for
the world of matter and, thereby, provides it with “life.” One
assumes that this means spiritual life inasmuch as it is
humankind which brings the “perfections of the spirit” and the
“light of the mind” into the world of matter.
All of the various attributes mentioned in the previous
discussion are universally applicable to human beings and are
not dependent on culture, ethnicity or any other external
factors. Different cultures may reflect the light of the spirit
differently, some more adequately than others and some, such
as Nazi Germany or Stalin’s Russia hardly at all. (Unless we are
willing to accept these examples, we cannot assent to the
unqualified proposition that all cultures reflect the spiritual
light equally.)

Some Answered Questions
55. Innate, Inherited and Acquired Character
Within our specifically human nature, there are three further
divisions: “the innate character, the inherited character and the
acquired character which is gained by education.”360 Of the
innate character, `Abdu’l-Bahá says
With regard to the innate character, although the
divine creation is purely good, yet the varieties of
natural qualities in man come from the difference of
degree; all are excellent, but they are more or less so,
according to the degree. So all mankind possess
intelligence and capacities, but the intelligence, the
capacity and the worthiness of men differ.361
The innate character, which `Abdu’l-Bahá also calls the
“original nature”362 is that foundational essence that identifies
us as human and is made up of such “natural qualities” as
“intelligence” and other capacities. These are good in
themselves but not all people have them in the same degree. It is
worthwhile pointing out this innate character is universal,
possessed by “all mankind” i.e. identifies the human species
and, as `Abdu’l-Bahá says, distinguishes it from the animal. In
other words, this is a general species quality that does not yet
identify us as individuals.
The “inherited character” is the individual constitution
we inherit from our parents: “The variety of inherited
qualities comes from strength and weakness of
constitution — that is to say, when the two parents are
weak, the children will be weak.”363
(Of course, `Abdu’l-Bahá is speaking in ‘bell-curve’ generalities
here, since exceptions always exist; however, as Toynbee points
out, exceptions prove the rule.) This “inherited character” helps
to differentiate us as individuals since we all have one; with the
innate human character it forms “the capital of life”364 which
He also calls the “natural capacity”365 and which “God has given
equally to all mankind.”366 This “natural capacity” is inherently
good. Again we observe the universal nature of the structure of
human nature as presented by `Abdu’l-Bahá.
The “acquired character,” associated with “acquired
capacity,”367 is the third aspect of our specifically human
character. It is the result of education, and the choices we learn
to make as a result of our education. This is where we shape our
characters through the exercise of free will, above all guided by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
the education provided by the Manifestations. Here is where
we acquire praiseworthy or blameworthy attributes: “One does
not criticize vicious people because of their innate capacities
and nature, but rather for their acquired capacities and
nature.”368
56. Free Will
The issue of “acquired character” brings us to one of the
most important topics in philosophical anthropology, namely
free will. This, too, is one of the constitutive aspects of our
human nature. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá,
Some things are subject to the free will of man, such as
justice, equity, tyranny and injustice, in other words,
good and evil actions … in the choice of good and bad
actions he is free, and he commits them according to
his own will.369
In other words, human beings are free in regards to our ethical
choices be they words, actions or attitudes; regardless of what
our circumstances are, we are always free to choose our
response. Ethically speaking, we all possess radical or complete
freedom by virtue of the inescapable fact that we are human.
As Sartre put it in Being and Nothingness, we are “condemned
to be free”370 whether we want to be or not. We can only
‘escape’ our freedom by living in “bad faith,” i.e. by self-
deceptively and/or hypocritically lying to ourselves that ‘we
have no choice.’ Ontologically, this freedom is based on the
fact that the spirit in itself is not subject to any of the
vicissitudes of material existence and thereby cannot use these
hardships.
This theme of radical ethical freedom brings with it the
consequence of radical responsibility for ourselves, for our
decision, words and actions. ‘Radical responsibility’ means
that we embrace our complete ethical freedom and, therefore,
abstain from seeking any excuses or justifications for our bad
actions in the circumstances of the external world nor do we
blame God for making us the kind of person we are, i.e. for our
innate and inherited character. That is the point of `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Bible-based discussion about the mineral not having any
right to complain to God that it was not giving vegetable
perfections. Each state of being is perfect in its own degree
and “must strive after the perfections of [its] own degree.”371
That is all it can be responsible for because perfecting one’s

Some Answered Questions
own degree of being is all that one has the power to do.
However, within that purview human beings are completely
responsible. Obviously, this aspect of Bahá’í philosophical
anthropology has enormous implications for law and the
justice system, education and social policies.
While `Abdu’l-Bahá asserts our radical ethical freedom, He
also frankly and realistically recognises that
there are certain things to which man is forced and
compelled, such as sleep, death, sickness, decline of
power, injuries and misfortunes; these are not subject
to the will of man, and he is not responsible for them,
for he is compelled to endure them.372
There are certain things we must do simply by virtue of
being alive, and there are other things we must do to deal with
various misfortunes and difficulties, over which we have no
control. Free will is not absolute, nor can we always shape
reality as we would like it to be by force of will. SAQ gives no
comfort to the belief that we can literally ‘make our own
reality’ as we choose. However, we incur no culpability for
these uncontrollable events themselves, but rather, we can incur
praise or blame by our response to them; we are, as `Abdu’l-
Bahá says, always free to take “good and bad action.”373
Finally, it should be noted that nothing in SAQ suggests
that free will is limited to one group, ethnicity, class or culture;
rather it is possessed universally by all human beings at all times
because it is a constitutional part of human nature. Nor is
there any insinuation that socio-economic conditions excuse
or justify destructive choices although reflection on these
conditions may help us understand how people came to take
destructive or self-destructive turns. Moreover, SAQ does not
seem to answer the question of whether or not poor material
conditions diminish ethical responsibility and the ability to
make free moral choices. These considerations, which clearly
affect law and justice, education and social policies will
require further study of the Writings.
57. Ethics
Although the ethical teachings of SAQ incorporate some
elements of other approaches to ethics, the foundations of the
ethical teachings promulgated in SAQ have deep affinities with
what is known as ‘virtue ethics.’ In general terms, virtue ethics

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
emphasise the acquisition of certain virtues and the subsequent
development of good character as the best foundation for
making ethical choices. This close relationship to virtue ethics,
is yet another sign of SAQ (and the Writings) belonging to the
Athenian tradition in philosophy especially with Aristotle’s
Nicomachean Ethics. The virtue ethics tradition, was, of
course developed among the Jews, Christians and Muslims who
inherited Greek philosophical thought.
Before examining SAQ’s relationship to virtue ethics more
closely, it is helpful to examine its position in regards to other
approaches to ethics. One of the most famous and influential
is Kant’s deontological ethics according to which acts are right
or wrong independently of their consequences.374 In other
words, consequences are not the only criteria by which to judge
an action; Deontological ethics emphasise knowing what our
duty is and carrying it out. Our personal motivation for doing
the act is essentially irrelevant as long as the right act is
properly carried out. For SAQ, deontological ethics are not so
much wrong as incomplete. We certainly have obligations to
God, for example — “to know [Him] and to worship [Him]” —
but `Abdu’l-Bahá makes it clear that mere outward action,
merely going through the motions, even if correct, is not
sufficient for humans to attain their highest possible moral
development. Speaking of those who do much good in the world
but have no knowledge of the divine teachings, He says,
Know that such actions, such efforts and such words
are praiseworthy and approved, and are the glory of
humanity. But these actions alone are not sufficient;
they are a body of the greatest loveliness, but without
spirit.375
In other words, the motivations driving even right actions are
as important as the actions themselves. It is, after all, possible
to do outwardly good actions with bad intent or from bad
motives; we may tell a truth about someone — with the
intention of causing them harm. The character of the doer and
his spiritual condition are also relevant in judging an action.
Another problem with deontological ethics is that we have is
the question of how we know which acts are wrong or right.
Hence, deontological ethics are not wrong but rather
incomplete; what they tell is necessary but not sufficient for
complete human ethical development.

Some Answered Questions
SAQ also shows points of contact with consequentialism,
another major class of moral theories, which maintains that the
consequences of an action are the only basis for moral
judgment. Moral acts are those which have good consequences.
Sometimes consequentialism is described as ‘utilitarian’ ethics
because it judges actions strictly by outcomes. The obvious
problem with this approach is that it cannot define what we
mean by a ‘good consequence,’ which can vary widely not only
among individuals but also among societies and thus offers
little real guidance as to what constitutes ‘good consequences.’
What should be considered a good consequence? What should
not be — and how do arbitrate among conflicting ‘good’
consequences such as the public’s right to fly safely and the
privacy rights of the individual? Unlike consequentialism, SAQ
cannot agree that the value of an action depends solely on its
good or desirable outcomes. For example, a rigorous
programme of euthanizing the terminally ill and incurable
mentally handicapped may have numerous positive results but
such results alone would be a weak recommendation for action
on this score. There are obviously other factors to consider
such as the effect of an act on the character of those who
perform it. This shows that from SAQ’s point of view,
consequentialism is not wrong — good actions involve good
consequences in some way — but rather, it is incomplete.
SAQ can agree with consequentialism insofar as divinely
given virtues and teachings lead to positive outcomes for
humankind. Bad consequences are, after all, important reasons
to replace beliefs that encourage disunity and conflict with
beliefs that draw human beings together. The Manifestations
appear to give teachings that will lead to good consequences for
humanity. In SAQ, there is one apparent example of
consequentialism to consider. `Abdu’l-Bahá describes lying as
the “foundation of all evil,”376 but He says that a doctor may lie
to a patient to help the patient’s recovery,377 adding
cryptically, “This is not blameworthy.”378 Does He mean the
action is good — or merely that in this special situation, it
should not be condemned, i.e. is permissible? From a
consequentialist viewpoint, He seems to be approving the
action or at least finding it acceptable and justifiable because
of its positive consequences for the patient. But is He giving us
permission to lie for other reasons we judge to be good? That,
of course, would open the door to all kinds of self-justifying
rationalisations and erode the value of the virtue of
truthfulness. `Abdu’l-Bahá words “Notwithstanding all this [the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
evil of lying]”379 shows that He means this case to be seen as an
exception and not as a general guide to action.
(Despite first impressions, this is not an example of moral
relativism in SAQ. The action of lying is justified by reference
to a moral absolute, i.e. saving a life, which in itself is beyond
any relativist questioning at all.)
58. Virtue Ethics
Virtue ethics are based on the belief that good action
requires the development of good character and that in turn
requires the acquisition of certain personal virtues. Only then
can we be prepared to make good ethical decisions and to live
well. Virtue ethics places great emphasis on motivation,
holding that truly good deeds can only come when we have good
motives. The basis of Bahá’í ethics as laid out in SAQ is that
our ethical task is to overcome the impulses of our lower,
animal nature and to acquire virtues by struggling to actualise
our higher, spiritual nature.
He [man] has the animal side as well as the angelic side,
and the aim of an educator is to so train human souls
that their angelic aspect may overcome their animal
side. Then if the divine power in man, which is his
essential perfection, overcomes the satanic power,
which is absolute imperfection, he becomes the most
excellent among the creatures; but if the satanic power
overcomes the divine power, he becomes the lowest of
the creatures.380
The “satanic power” is the uncontrolled demands of our
physical or animal nature and these can lead us into evil. The
purpose of overcoming our animal aspects is that we might
acquire the eternal virtues that have been taught by the
Manifestations. These
foundations of the Religion of God, which are
spiritual and which are the virtues of humanity, cannot
be abrogated; they are irremovable and eternal, and are
renewed in the cycle of every Prophet.381
The reason why these virtues are eternal is because, as we shall
see in the section on philosophical anthropology, our human
nature is so formed by God as to need the fulfillment of certain
needs to achieve optimum growth. In other words, the virtues
reflect the needs of our divinely created, objectively real and

Some Answered Questions
universal human nature and develop our characters in a
positive way. For us to achieve optimum development, we need
faith,
knowledge,
certitude,
justice,
piety,
righteousness,
trustworthiness,
love
of
God,
benevolence, purity, detachment, humility, meekness,
patience and constancy. It shows mercy to the poor,
defends the oppressed, gives to the wretched and
uplifts the fallen … These divine qualities, these eternal
commandments, will never be abolished; nay, they will
last and remain established for ever and ever. These
virtues of humanity will be renewed in each of the
different cycles; for at the end of every cycle the
spiritual Law of God — that is to say, the human
virtues — disappears, and only the form subsists.382
If the soul acquires these virtues, “it is the most noble of the
existing beings; and if it acquires vices, it becomes the most
degraded existence.”383 Virtue ethics do not just focus on the
action alone nor on its consequences, but rather place great
emphasis on the motive for which an action is done. To act
virtuously is not only to act properly from but to act properly
for good motives or “purity of heart.”
But the heavenly water and spirit, which are knowledge
and life, make the human heart good and pure; the heart
which receives a portion of the bounty of the Spirit
becomes sanctified, good and pure — that is to say, the
reality of man becomes purified and sanctified from
the impurities of the world of nature. These natural
impurities are evil qualities: anger, lust, worldliness,
pride, lying, hypocrisy, fraud, self-love, etc.384
Purity of heart is necessary to do genuinely good deeds. As
we have seen, this purity of heart or good will is necessary so
that acts have more than mere good appearance:
The third virtue of humanity is the goodwill which is
the basis of good actions … for the goodwill is absolute
light; it is purified and sanctified from the impurities
of selfishness, of enmity, of deception. Now it may be
that a man performs an action which in appearance is
righteous, but which is dictated by covetousness.385
However, to acquire purity of heart we must have “knowledge
of God”386 which is “the cause of spiritual progress and
attraction, and through it the perception of truth, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
exaltation of humanity, divine civilization, rightness of morals
and illumination are obtained.”387 This is the foundation of the
virtues we are to acquire. “If man has not this knowledge, He
will be separated from God, and when this separation exists,
good actions have not complete effect.”388
We also need the love of God:
The light of which shines in the lamp of the hearts of
those who know God; its brilliant rays illuminate the
horizon and give to man the life of the Kingdom. In
truth, the fruit of human existence is the love of God,
for this love is the spirit of life, and the eternal bounty.
If the love of God did not exist, the contingent world
would be in darkness … the hearts of men would be
dead, and deprived of the sensations of existence …
spiritual union would be lost … the light of unity
would not illuminate humanity …389
Once we have attained knowledge and love of God, then we are
ready to acquire the other virtues that distinguish us from
animals. Because the virtues taught by the Manifestations, they
are in themselves the rewards we attain in this world: “The
rewards of this life are the virtues and perfections which adorn
the reality of man.”390 In other words, we need not wait for the
next life to reap the rewards of virtue, but may have these
rewards immediately in this life:
When they are delivered through the light of faith from
the darkness of these vices, and become illuminated
with the radiance of the sun of reality, and ennobled
with all the virtues, they esteem this the greatest
reward, and they know it to be the true paradise.391
It should be noted that the virtue ethics promulgated in
SAQ are completely incompatible with any version of
relativism or ethical subjectivism. In SAQ, we are not being
invited to a debate on whether or know faith, knowledge,
purity and detachment are virtues worth attaining — the fact
that they are is established implicitly by our universal human
nature and explicitly by the Manifestation Who is not seeking
our in-put on these issues. On the contrary, the Manifestation
proclaims these and other virtues He lists, as the virtues
necessary for each and every member of humankind whether we
know it or not. These values are objective, and a contrary
opinion on the importance of purity, for example is simply a
sign of error. Nor does SAQ accept ethical subjectivism, i.e.

Some Answered Questions
the belief that we make our own individual ethical codes in our
statements and actions and that a person is moral if his
actions match his words. This, of course, allows some very evil
actions to qualify as ‘moral’ if for no other reason than that
they are consistent with a statement of plans. Consistency and
sincerity are not sufficient to make an action moral. The ethics
of SAQ are, on the contrary, objective, not subjective ethics —
an individual’s personal views about these virtues are basically
irrelevant as to their necessity.
59. Progress
The concept of progress is foundational to SAQ’s
philosophical anthropology, ontology and onto-theology. In
fact, without the concept of progress, the very rationale for the
appearance of successive Manifestations, and with it, the
rationale for the Bahá’í revelation would vanish: “at the time of
the appearance of each Manifestation of God extraordinary
progress has occurred in the world of minds, thoughts and
spirits.”392 The whole purpose of consecutive Manifestations is
to ensure that humankind makes progress in “material, human
and spiritual”393 education and to help us achieve this goal, “we
need an educator who will be at the same time a material,
human and spiritual educator.”394 At this point the onto-
theological dimensions of SAQ’s teachings on progress become
clear in respect to the need for an “educator [who] must be
unquestionably and indubitably perfect in all respects and
distinguished above all men.”395 Without these supra-human
perfections He would be subject to all the same weaknesses as
other humans and would lack the ability to carry out His
mission.
According to SAQ, material education:
is concerned with the progress and development of the
body, through gaining its sustenance, its material
comfort and ease. This education is common to
animals and man.396
Human education:
signifies civilization and progress — that is to say,
government, administration, charitable works, trades,
arts and handicrafts, sciences, great inventions and
discoveries and elaborate institutions, which are the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
activities essential to man as distinguished from the
animal.397
Human education includes progress in:
intelligence and thought in such a way that they may
attain complete development, so that knowledge and
science may increase, and the reality of things, the
mysteries of beings and the properties of existence may
be discovered; that, day by day, instructions,
inventions and institutions may be improved; and
from things perceptible to the senses conclusions as to
intellectual things may be deduced.398
Spiritual education “is that of the Kingdom of God: it consists
in acquiring divine perfections, and this is true education; for
in this state man becomes the focus of divine blessings.”399
Spiritual education also exists “so that intelligence and
comprehension may penetrate the metaphysical world, and may
receive benefit from the sanctifying breeze of the Holy
Spirit”400 and so that human beings may become mirrors
reflecting the “attributes and names of God.”401
These passages make clear that `Abdu’l-Bahá sees humankind
making progress in its material, intellectual, social and
governmental aspects, as well as in spiritual existence. With the
arrival of the Manifestation, “universal progress appears in the
world of humanity.”402
Specifically, He praises the progress made with the
appearance of Bahá’u’lláh:
In this great century which is the cycle of Bahá’u’lláh,
what progress science and knowledge have made, how
many secrets of existence have been discovered, how
many great inventions have been brought to light and
are day by day multiplying in number. Before long,
material science and learning, as well as the knowledge
beholders will be amazed.403
In this passage we not only see the role of Bahá’u’lláh in human
progress, but we also have specific indications that ‘progress’
means more and better knowledge vis-à-vis the secrets that have
been “discovered,” more and better “great inventions,” and
new and amazing developments in “material science and
learning.” In other words, progress means improvement i.e. the
replacement of something that is inadequate by something that

Some Answered Questions
is more adequate, be it a procedure, a theory, belief or
understanding, a device and so on. A similar idea is evident in
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s remark that if we educate populations,
day by day knowledge and sciences would increase, the
understanding would be broadened, the sensibilities
developed, customs would become good, and morals
normal; in one word, in all these classes of perfections
there would be progress, and there would be fewer
crimes.404
It is evident here that ‘progress’ does not merely mean ‘change’
or ‘difference’ but rather ‘improvement,’ ‘greater efficiency’,
‘greater adequacy’ of understanding and knowledge, and
enhanced “sensibilities.” This, of course, implies the currently
controversial proposition that if there is genuine progress then
the level of material, human and spiritual civilization attained
by previous civilizations and cultures were not as advanced as
that which will be achieved by civilization and culture in the era
inaugurated by Bahá’u’lláh. In other words, ‘progress’ as used
in SAQ involves the idea of advancement and improvement
beyond a previous stage of development that is incomplete or
less perfect than its successor.
An inescapable consequence of belief in progress is that
some civilizations and cultures are more advanced than others,
i.e. that not all are equal in their development of humankind’s
material, human and intellectual, and spiritual capacities.
`Abdu’l-Bahá certainly accepts this result, as is evident in His
references to “barbarian[]” cultures: “These Arab tribes were in
the lowest depths of savagery and barbarism, and in
comparison with them the savages of Africa and wild Indians
of America were as advanced as a Plato.”405 During the
twentieth century the Nazis, Fascists and Communists showed
how even materially and intellectually advanced individuals and
societies could retrogress into barbarism when spiritual
education is ignored or suppressed. Civilizations and cultures
can remain in or retrogress into lower states.
The doctrine of progress also shapes SAQ’s vision of the
after-life: “man can also make progress in perfections after
leaving this world.”406 This means that we may increase our
specifically human perfections in the next life but that we
cannot advance beyond our essential human nature to become
God or a Manifestation.407 `Abdu’l-Bahá illustrates this in the
following statement:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Look at this mineral. However far it may evolve, it only
evolves in its own condition; you cannot bring the
crystal to a state where it can attain to sight. This is
impossible. So the moon which is in the heavens,
however far it might evolve, could never become a
luminous sun, but in its own condition it has apogee
and perigee … It is true that coal could become a
diamond, but both are in the mineral condition, and
their component elements are the same.408
Thus, progress is limited or bounded by the essential nature of
things, but is not bounded within the limits established by the
essential nature of a being. Here we observe a convergence
between SAQ’s ontological teachings regarding essence and its
teachings regarding spiritual progress after death.
60. Human Evolution
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s teachings on human progress include the
concept of human evolution over the last few million years.
However, there is an important caveat attached to His assent.
`Abdu’l-Bahá unequivocably rejects the notion that the human
species has evolved from an animal although He does not reject
that throughout our long history the human species has
changed accidental i.e. physical attributes and appeared in a
variety of forms. Of the suggestion that humankind was
initially an animal and that through progressive modifications
it became human, He says, “How puerile and unfounded is this
idea and this thought!”409 We may have changed our actualised
outward attributes but we have not changed our substance or
essence.
For man, from the beginning of the embryonic period
till he reaches the degree of maturity, goes through
different forms and appearances. His aspect, his form,
his appearance and color change; he passes from one
form to another, and from one appearance to another.
Nevertheless, from the beginning of the embryonic
period he is of the species of man — that is to say, an
embryo of a man and not of an animal; but this is not
at first apparent, but later it becomes visible and
evident.410
In other words, `Abdu’l-Bahá accepts the notion of humankind
having progressed through a long line of accidental changes in
different forms just like a human embryo in the womb.

Some Answered Questions
However, He disagrees with the interpretation of these
accidental changes as showing that there has been essential or
substantial alteration in the development of the human race. In
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s view, “his [man’s] species and essence undergo
no change”411 which is simply a particular application of His
general dictum that “the essence of things does not change.”412
Things may appear to change their essences over time as they
actualize their previously hidden potentials, but deeper
philosophical reflection shows that the essence and its
potentials remain stable. After all, a thing cannot change into
something for which it has no potential: a gumboot will not
become a live alligator. No matter what we do to and with the
gumboot, and no matter how different it looks and acts, none
of its transformations will involve anything for which it
doesn’t
have
potential
in
the
first
place.
All
its
transformations are potentially present, i.e. essentially present
from the first. Similarly, `Abdu’l-Bahá says
the embryo possesses from the first all perfections,
such as the spirit, the mind, the sight, the smell, the
taste — in one word, all the powers — but they are not
visible and become so only by degrees.413
This is also what transpired in human history on the earth:
there were beings which outwardly resembled animals but they
carried within them the potentials of attaining spirit and
mind, although it took a long time to actualise these potentials.
“In the beginning of his formation the mind and spirit also
existed, but they were hidden; later they were manifested.”414
Because mind and spirit were not manifested and left no
outward signs of their existence does not mean that these
potentials did not exist; indeed, the fact that they are now
actualized proves they must have existed as unactualised
potentials. After all, as explained above, a thing cannot
actualise potentials it does not have. Thus, two seemingly
identical species may in fact be radically different if one
possesses the potentials for spirit and mind, and the other does
not, even though skeletal remains alone may not allow us to
distinguish them. Any attempt to draw conclusions solely on
the basis of outward form alone would obviously be going
beyond the available evidence. Consequently, there are good
ontologically based reasons for `Abdu’l-Bahá to say, “he [man]
is the embryo of the superior species, and not of the animal; his
species and essence undergo no change”415 and “Man was
always a distinct species, a man, not an animal.”416 Only our
actualised attributes and appearance have changed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
As we have seen, `Abdu’l-Bahá frames His interpretation of
evolution on the philosophical analysis of reality in terms of
essence, attribute, accident, potential and actuality. Such
analysis, integral to the Athenian tradition, even applies to the
history of the earth itself.
the terrestrial globe from the beginning was created
with all its elements, substances, minerals, atoms and
organisms; but these only appeared by degrees: first the
mineral, then the plant, afterward the animal, and
finally man. But from the first these kinds and species
existed, but were undeveloped in the terrestrial globe,
and then appeared only gradually.417
In other words, “from the beginning” the earth possessed in
potential “all its elements, substances, minerals, atoms and
organisms.” They were all potentially present and gradually
became actualised. However, each of these kinds of things and
species existed “from the first” and, therefore, did not require
that one kind or essence be transformed into another. Indeed,
that is impossible. Anything that exists on earth can exist only
because the potential for its development was there in the first
place. If there were no potential, how could it develop? How
could a gumboot become a live alligator?
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s argument is an inevitable consequence of the
explanatory framework of the Athenian tradition in philosophy
according to which “the essence of things does not change.”418
Each species — a word He uses to refer to different specific
kinds of plants or animals as well as humans — has its own
unique essence and the inherent hidden potentials which will be
actualized or externalised under different conditions. Hence
differences may arise as several instantiations of an essence
actualise different attributes under different circumstances;
outwardly, some of these differences may be dramatic.
Nonetheless, they are variant actualisations of the same
essence. If, for example, species A gives rise to species B, then
the potential for creating species B was already in species A.
Therefore, from the point of view of essences and potentials,
they are still one kind or essence or species, although they
actualise or manifest vastly different potentials. There has been
no change in the essence per se but there have been changes
insofar as different potentials have been actualized and
externalised.

Some Answered Questions
61. SAQ and Science
There is no question that `Abdu’l-Bahá’s views on human
evolution are in conflict with current scientific thought in
regards to the origins and history of humankind. However, this
does not necessarily undermine Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching that
science and religion should be in harmony unless one adopts the
view that religion must uncritically agree with science on all its
pronouncements at all times. Logically this is untenable for the
simple reason that science itself changes its views — sometime
profoundly — and no text, revealed or not, can adopt all the
successive scientific beliefs on a given subject without falling
into self-contradiction and, thereby, ceasing to be useful as a
guide.419
Nor does SAQ lend itself to the suggestion that religion and
science are non-overlapping magisterial (NOMA) in which each
has its own specific area of competency which cannot conflict
because they deal with different topics.420 `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
critique of scientists’ interpretation of the data of evolution —
he does not challenge the data itself — shows that in His view,
science
and
religion
are
not
separate
compartments
hermetically sealed off from each other. Nor is there a firewall
between science and His ontological statements which are,
after all, statements about the nature of all reality, including
that which is studied by science. This applies particularly to
His proofs for the existence of God which most certainly have
implications for cosmology if for no other reason than that
such proofs suggest that all purely material explanations are
inherently incomplete. Thus, it seems clear that SAQ
exemplifies the dialogical approach to the harmony of religion
and science. In the dialogical approach, both sides are aware of
their own and the other’s inherent strengths and limitations
and engage in careful dialogue in the quest for truth; they feel
free to engage in mutual critique and recognise their
commonalities vis-à-vis methods (the use of reason, models,
paradigms, independent investigation), and presuppositions
about the nature of reality. They also concern themselves with
the “limit-questions”421 that science raises about the origins of
the universe, its intelligibility and order, the origin and nature
of natural law and appearance versus reality. These “limit
questions” are of mutual interest to science and religion. From
the dialogical perspective the harmony of religion and science
does not mean uncritical agreement of one with the other, but
of a mutual quest for a more adequate understanding of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
truth about reality. They work as partners in a process — which
is what both science and religion are — rather than make score-
sheets of agreements and disagreements.
Conclusion
This survey of SAQ has covered major subjects in ontology,
onto-theology, epistemology and philosophical anthropology.
From this survey, we have drawn three general conclusions.
First, SAQ’s ideas on these four foundational subject areas
are founded on and shaped by a consistent set of philosophical
ideas. In other words, SAQ is more than a random collection
of thoughts on various topics; instead it exemplifies a
consistent underlying philosophy vis-à-vis ontology, onto-
theology, epistemology and philosophical anthropology. In
these areas, SAQ lays down basic principles from which a
considerable portions of SAQ (and the other Writings) may be
deduced or to which they can be rationally related. Close
analysis shows the seemingly unconnected parts are joined at
an often implicit level by a coherent underlying philosophy.
Second,
this
underlying
philosophy
has
significant
connections with the philosophy of the Athenian tradition, in
terms of language and terminology, concepts and use of
concepts, and the development of arguments. Of the available
philosophical traditions, SAQ is most consistent with the
Athenian tradition, both in its early and contemporary forms.
Like SAQ, this tradition analyses reality in terms of essences,
substances, accidents, potentials, actualities and four-fold
causality; accepts the existence of God, and emphasises
humankind’s special place in creation, as well as virtue ethics.
To say that the philosophy embedded in SAQ is most
consistent with the Athenian tradition is not to say that SAQ
(or the Writings) are limited by past versions of this tradition.
As shown most decisively in the work of Whitehead and his
followers, but also in the work of Marcel, de Chardin,
MacIntyre and Wild, as well as the developments in neo-
Thomism, the Athenian tradition is not only flexible but
capable of enormous, sometimes even radical, growth in new
directions. Being part of this tradition does not imprison
philosophy in the past but rather provides a philosophically
sound vessel with which to embark on voyages of exploration.

Some Answered Questions
Third, SAQ shows that the philosophy based on the Bahá’í
Writings in general and SAQ in particular, can be a coherent
and systematic basis for a dialogical (including critical)
relationship with other philosophical approaches, with science,
as well as with various intellectual disciplines. In other words,
the philosophy embedded throughout SAQ and the other
Writings represents a solid foundation from which Bahá’ís may
engage other systems of thought both appreciatively and
critically. It is, therefore, a valuable tool for inter-faith
dialogue, for teaching and for apologetics.

NOTES
1 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
2 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 7.
3 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CVI, p. 213.
4 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CVI, p. 213.
5 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.
6 For a detailed study of this view, see Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian
Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings,” Lights of Irfán, Vol. IV, 2003.
Alastair McIntyre is a well-known example of a contemporary neo-
Aristotelian. It must be emphasised that it is not necessary to be a
Catholic to be a neo-Thomist, as illustrated by Mortimer Adler. We
should also recall that many Muslim philosophers such as Ibn Sina, Ibn
Rushd and Suhrawardi worked in the tradition begun by Plato, Aristotle
and Plotinus.
7 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 3.
8 Richard Dawkins, The God Delusion.
9 Christopher Hitchens, God is Not Great.
10 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
11 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
12 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
13 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
14 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
15 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278. Note, too, how
`Abdu’l-Bahá provides another guideline within which a Bahá’í
philosophy must work when he says it is “futile to deny” that the
existence of creation is an illusion compared to God’s absolute, non-
contingent existence.
16 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280; emphasis added.
17 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

18 See Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings,” Lights of Irfán
19 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 196.
20 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
21 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 3.
22 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
23 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 212-213.
24 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
25 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
26 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
27 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
28 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 235.
29 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 189-190.
30 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
31 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 247; emphasis added.
32 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178.
33 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178-179; emphasis added.
34 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 130.
35 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 130.
36 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 130.
37 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 130-131.
38 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 131.
39 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 131.
40 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 131.
41 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 249; emphasis added.
42 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 212.
43 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 123.
44 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 245-246; emphasis added.
45 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p, 225.
46 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p, 225.
47 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p, 243.
48 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
49 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178.
50 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 129; emphasis added.
51 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 78.
52 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 79.
53 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178.
54 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 233.
55 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 179.

Some Answered Questions

56 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 146.
57 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
58 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157-158.
59 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 158; see also SAQ 252.
60 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
61 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
62 “Pantheism and Panentheism” by Charles Hartshorne in The
Encyclopedia of Religion, ed. Mircea Eliade, Vol. 11, p. 165-171. Both
Whitehead and his follower Hartshorne are panentheists.
63 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
64 “Pantheism and Panentheism” by Charles Hartshorne in The
Encyclopedia of Religion, ed. Mircea Eliade, Vol. 11, p. 166.
65 See “No thing have I perceived, except that I perceived God within it,
God before it, or God after it.” in Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, XC, p. 178, for further evidence on this issue.
66 New Scientist
67 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 179; emphasis added. See
also 100, 143, 163, 202, 208,
68 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 178; emphasis added.
69 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.
70 Aristotle, Physics, II, 7, 198 a, b.
71 Aristotle, Metaphysics, V, 1, 1013 a, b.
72 John Wild, Introduction to Realistic Philosophy, p. 300.
73 John Wild, Introduction to Realistic Philosophy, p. 300.
74 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.
75 Aristotle, Physics, II, 7, 200b.
76 Aristotle, Physics, II, 7, 198a.
77 John Wild, Introduction to Realistic Philosophy, p. 302.
78 Abaham Edel, Aristotle and His Philosophy, p. 62. See also W.D. Ross,
Aristotle, p. 77 which supports Norris, Edel and Wild.
79 Henry B. Veatch, Aristotle: A Contemporary Appreciation, p. p. 48.
80 W. Norris Clarke, S.J., The One and the Many, p. 200.
81 W. Norris Clarke, S.J., The One and the Many, p. 201.
82 W. Norris Clarke, S.J., The One and the Many, p. 201.
83 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181; emphasis added.
84 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 3; emphasis added.
85 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181.
86 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181.
87 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 3.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

88 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6; emphasis added.
89 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
90 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 89.
91 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 89.
92 Ted Honderich, ed. The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, 384.
93 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 280.
94 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
95 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
96 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 241.
97 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 39.
98 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 48.
99 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 76.
100 Ted Honderich, ed. The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 887.
101 Ted Honderich, ed. The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 887.
102 Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, p. 264.
103 Jean-Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, 518-519.
104 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208-209; emphasis added.
105 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208-209.
106 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 129.
107 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 184.
108 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 235; emphasis added.
109 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
110 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 295.
111 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
112 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199; emphasis added.
113 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 196.
114 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 195-196.
115 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 222.
116 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 113.
117 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 5.
118 W. Norris Clarke, S.J. The Philosophical Approach to God, p. 59.
119 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 196.
120 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 197.
121 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 196.
122 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 196.
123 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
124 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
125 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 180.

Some Answered Questions

126 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 225.
127 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 180.
128 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281.
129 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.
130 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 217-218.
131 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 151.
132 [20.15] “Surely the hour is coming— I am about to make it manifest— so
that every soul may be rewarded as it strives:”
133 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.
134 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.
135 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.
136 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.
137 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
138 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239.
139 In Aristotle substance and essence are convertible terms. See Edel,
Aristotle and His Philosophy, p. 122. See also Ross, Aristotle, p. 162.
140 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148.
141 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 146, 147, 148,
142 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 146.
143 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148.
144 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148.
145 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 146-147; emphasis added.
146 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148; see also 147.
147 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148; emphasis added.
148 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 5.
149 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 181.
150 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 5.
151 The argument from perfection is the fourth of Aquinas’ five proofs for
God in the Summa Theologica.
152 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
153 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 130.
154 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
155 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
156 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
157 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
158 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
159 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 177.
160 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

161 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 177.
162 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 263-264; emphasis added.
163 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 233.
164 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, p. 108.
165 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 2.
166 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 14.
167 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 14.
168 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 237.
169 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 233.
170 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 108.
171 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 108.
172 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 108.
173 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239-240.
174 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 113.
175 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 113.
176 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148.
177 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 148-149.
178 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 207; emphasis added.
179 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 156.
180 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
181 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 202.
182 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 114.
183 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 113.
184 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 180; emphasis added. See
also SAQ p. 282.
185 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 173.
186 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 207.
187 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 4.
188 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
189 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 202-203.
190 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 205.
191 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 205.
192 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 207.
193 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 205.
194 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 205.
195 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 235.
196 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 235.
197 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 230.

Some Answered Questions

198 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 295.
199 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
200 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
201 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 168.
202 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 222.
203 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 114.
204 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 152.
205 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 145.
206 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154; emphasis added.
207 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 153.
208 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 9-10.
209 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154.
210 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 152.
211 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.116.
212 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 230.
213 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 230.
214 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 230.
215 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154.
216 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 153.
217 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 151.
218 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154.
219 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 152.
220 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 218-219; emphasis added.
221 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154.
222 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157-158.
223 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 158.
224 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 154.
225 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 218.
226 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
227 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
228 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
229 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
230 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 222.
231 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221; emphasis added.
232 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
233 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 278.
234 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 217-218.
235 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 253.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

236 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 3.
237 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
238 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221; emphasis added.
239 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 144.
240 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 144.
241 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 251; see also 3, 9,
242 Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, p. 264.
243 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 129.
244 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208; emphasis added.
245 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
246 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
247 See Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings,” Lights of
Irfán, Vol. Nine, 2008.
248 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 298.
249 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 298.
250 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 299; emphasis added.
251 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 64.
252 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 145; emphasis added.
253 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6; emphasis added.
254 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 108.
Descartes,
Regulae,
Rule
III.
www.mtsu.edu/rbombard/RB/Spinoza/cnd.html. See also Philosophical
Meditations.
256 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 298.
257 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 298.
Meriam-Webster
Dictionary,
www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/liable
259 See Ian Kluge, “Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings.”
260 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 9; emphasis added.
261 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 64.
262 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 64.
263 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 163.
264 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 108.
265 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
266 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 7.
267 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 73.
268 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.8; italics added.
269 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
270 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 217.

Some Answered Questions

271 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 7.
272 See Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings” (Lights of
Irfán Vol. 9, 2008) and “Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings.”
273 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
274 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
275 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220; emphasis added.
276 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
277 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
278 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
279 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
280 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
281 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 158.
282 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 158.
283 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 158.
284 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 146.
285 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
286 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147
287 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
288 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 222.
289 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 221.
290 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 147.
291 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 250.
292 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 293-294; emphasis added.
293 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 293.
294 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 294.
295 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 209; emphasis added.
296 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
297 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 253.
298 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 241.
299 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 241.
300 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 263.
301 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 156; emphasis added.
302 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 108.
303 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 229; see also 287.
304 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 144.
305 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239.
306 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 242.
307 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 108.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

308 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
309 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 242.
310 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 228.
311 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 229.
312 Malebranche and Leibniz are the major western philosophers associated
with this doctrine; among early Muslim proponents were al-Ashari and
al-Ghazali.
313 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 209.
314 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
315 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 218.
316 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 218.
317 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 171.
318 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 171.
319 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
320 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 172.
321 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 172.
322 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 172.
323 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 172.
324 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 173.
325 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 173; emphasis added.
326 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 172.
327 Jean-Francois Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p. xxiv.
328 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 184.
329 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 224; emphasis added.
330 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 119; emphasis added.
331 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 193.
332 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 189.
333 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239.
334 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 118.
335 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 119.
336 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 223.
337 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 223.
338 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 229.
339 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 229.
340 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 229.
341 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 240; emphasis added.
342 In the Western tradition, the second view is most closely identified with
Duns Scotus, and the first with Thomas Aquinas.

Some Answered Questions

343 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 225.
344 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 225.
345 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 225.
346 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 225.
347 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208; emphasis added.
348 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 217; emphasis added.
349 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 120.
350 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 115; emphasis added.
351 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 118.
352 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 118.
353 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 235.
354 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 200.
355 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 200.
356 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 201.
357 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 201.
358 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 201; emphasis added.
359 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 201.
360 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 212.
361 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 212.
362 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 212.
363 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 213.
364 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 215.
365 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 214.
366 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 214.
367 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 214.
368 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 214-215.
369 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 248.
370 Jean-Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, p. 156.
371 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 249.
372 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 248.
373 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 248.
374 Ted Honderich, editor, The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, p. 187.
375 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 300; emphasis added.
376 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 215.
377 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 215-216.
378 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 216.
379 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 215-216.
380 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 235-236; emphasis added.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

381 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 48; emphasis added.
382 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 47.
383 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 144.
384 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 92.
385 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 302.
386 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 300.
387 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 300; emphasis added.
388 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 238. emphasis added.
389 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 300-301; emphasis added.
390 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 223.
391 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 224.
392 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 163.
393 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 8.
394 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 8.
395 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 8; emphasis added.
396 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 8.
397 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 8.
398 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 9; emphasis added.
399 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 8.
400 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 9.
401 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 9.
402 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 74-75.
403 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 64.
404 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 272.
405 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 19. It would be curious to
know how Edward Said would respond to this and similar statements.
406 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 237.
407 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 230.
408 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 233-234.
409 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 184.
410 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 193; see also 194.
411 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 184.
412 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 100.
413 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199.
414 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 198.
415 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 184.
416 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 184.
417 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 199; emphasis added.

Some Answered Questions

418 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 100.
419 For example, in the 1970’s scientific consensus was that the earth was
cooling not warming. Another example would be the reversal of the
view that neutrinos have no mass.
420 Stephen Jay Gould, “Nonoverlapping Magisteria,” Natural History,
March 1997.
421 Ian G Barbour, When Science Meets Religion, p.24.

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
Chapter 31 of Some Answered Questions
Moojan Momen
Some Answered Questions is a book of the answers that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave to questions put to Him by Laura Clifford
Barney in the house of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in ‘Akka in the early 1900s.
The Persian and English texts of these replies were published in
1908. The Persian text was seen, corrected by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
His own hand and approved by Him with the affixing of His
seal. The English text has a number of problems and is currently
being retranslated.
One of the questions put to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked Him for an
explanation of the verse in the Bible (in the ensuing quotations
from the Bible, the Authorised King James Version is given
first with the Revised Standard Version in parentheses
afterwards):
Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and
blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the
blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven
unto men. And whosoever speaketh a word against the
Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever
speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be
forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world
to come. (Matt. 12:31-32: Therefore I tell you, every sin
and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy
against the Spirit will not be forgiven. And whoever
says a word against the Son of man will be forgiven;
but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be
forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.)
Since this is a quotation from Christian scripture it is first
necessary to put it into its Christian context and to see what
Christian theologians and commentators on the Bible have said
about it. The verse comes in the context of a story about a man
‘possessed with a devil, blind, and dumb’ (22: a blind and dumb

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
demoniac) who was brought to Jesus and healed. The people
were amazed, saying ‘Is this not the son of David’ (23: ‘Can this
be the Son of David ?’) — in other words: can this be the
Messiah who was to spring from the loins of David? But the
Pharisees, no doubt fearing for their station and their
following, said: ‘This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by
Beelzebub the prince of the devils’ (24: It is only by Be-el’zebul,
the prince of demons, that this man casts out demons) — and
therefore he is not the son of David. Beelzebub was the
ringleader of the apostasy from God and rebellion against him.
But Jesus refuted the Pharisees through logic, saying ‘Every
kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and
every city or house divided against itself shall not stand’ (25:
Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city
or house divided against itself will stand) so why would Satan
or Beelzebub cast out devils — why would he act against
himself? (26: ‘and if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against
himself; how then will his kingdom stand?’). And if he is to be
accused of casting out demons through Beelzebub, then what
about those from among the Jews who also cast out demons
(and about whom it was said that they did this though the
Spirit of God)? He thus condemns them for making their
judgments not out of justice but out of prejudice. He then
goes on to point out that this is in fact a proof of His mission:
But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the
kingdom of God is come unto you. Or else how can one
enter into a strong man’s house, and spoil his goods,
except he first bind the strong man and then he will
spoil his house? He that is not with me is against me;
and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad.
(28-30: But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out
demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Or how can one enter a strong man’s house and
plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man?
Then indeed he may plunder his house. He who is not
with me is against me, and he who does not gather with
me scatters.)
Then there comes the verses that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was asked to
comment upon and, following these, there are verses that
expand upon this point:
Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else
make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the
tree is known by his fruit. O generation of vipers, how

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. A good
man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth
forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil
treasure bringeth forth evil things. But I say unto you,
That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give
account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy
words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou
shalt be condemned. (33-37: ‘Either make the tree good,
and its fruit good; or make the tree bad, and its fruit
bad; for the tree is known by its fruit. You brood of
vipers! how can you speak good, when you are evil? For
out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
The good man out of his good treasure brings forth
good, and the evil man out of his evil treasure brings
forth evil. I tell you, on the Day of Judgment men will
render account for every careless word they utter; for
by your words you will be justified, and by your words
you will be condemned.’)
The following is an abbreviated version of the commentary
of Matthew Henry (1662-1714), an English non-conformist
clergyman in his Exposition of the Old and New Testaments
(1708-1710) on this verse.1 He states that this verse gives the
‘gracious assurance of the pardon of all sin upon gospel terms’,
that ‘the greatness of sin shall be no bar to our acceptance with
God, if we truly repent and believe the gospel.’ The only
exception to this is ‘the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost,
which is here declared to be the only unpardonable sin.’ In
explaining this, he harks back to a few verses earlier: ‘But Jesus
knew their thoughts, (v. 25). It is not all speaking against the
person or essence of the Holy Ghost, or some of his more
private operations, or merely the resisting of his internal
working in the sinner himself, that is here meant; for who then
should be saved?’ Further on he says: ‘this blasphemy is
excepted, not for any defect of mercy in God or merit in
Christ, but because it inevitably leaves the sinner in infidelity
and impenitency.’ He goes on to say that ‘those who
blasphemed Christ when he was here upon earth, and called him
a Winebibber, a Deceiver, a Blasphemer, and the like, they had
some colour of excuse, because of the meanness of his
appearance, and the prejudices of the nation against him; and
the proof of his divine mission was not perfected till after his
ascension; and therefore, upon their repentance, they shall be
pardoned’.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Matthew Henry then goes on to tie in the ‘blasphemy against
the Holy Ghost’ with the Pentecostal appearance of the Holy
Spirit saying that although during the ministry of Jesus some
may have been confused about His station, all reasonable
doubt was removed with the coming of the Holy Spirit at
Pentecost:
But if, when the Holy Ghost is given, in his inward
gifts of revelation, speaking with tongues, and the like,
such as were the distributions of the Spirit among the
apostles, if they continue to blaspheme the Spirit
likewise, as an evil spirit, there is no hope of them that
they will ever be brought to believe in Christ.
John Wesley gives a much shorter and more direct explanation:
The blasphemy against the Spirit: How much stir has
been made about this? How many sermons, yea,
volumes, have been written concerning it? And yet
there is nothing plainer in all of the Bible. It is neither
more nor less than the ascribing those miracles to the
power of the devil, which Christ wrought by the power
of the Holy Ghost.
Whosoever speaketh against the Son of man: In any
other respects: It shall be forgiven him — Upon his true
repentance: But whosoever speaketh thus against the
Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven, neither in this
world nor in the world to come — This was a proverbial
expression among the Jews, for a thing that would
never be done. It here means farther, He shall not
escape the punishment of it, either in this world, or in
the world to come. The judgment of God shall overtake
him, both here and hereafter.2
The equivalent to Beelzebub (Beelzebul) and Lucifer in the
Apocrypha of the Bible,3 the personification of rebellion
against God, is, in the Qur’an, Iblis, the angel who is ordered
to bow down before Adam and refuses and is therefore cast
out of heaven and becomes Satan. It is thus pride and
disobedience that cause his fall:
It is We who created you and gave you shape; then We
bade the angels bow down to Adam, and they bowed
down; not so Iblis; he refused to be of those who bow
down. (God) said: ‘what prevented thee from bowing
down when I commanded thee?’ He said: ‘I am better

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
than he: thou didst create me from fire and him from
clay.’ (God) said: ‘Get thee down from this: it is not for
thee to be arrogant here: get out, for thou art of the
meanest (of creatures).’4
In Shi’i Islam, a parallel with ‘blasphemy against the Holy
Spirit’ can be seen in the concept of those such as Abu Bakr,
‘Umar and Mu’awiya who opposed the Imams as successors to
the Prophet Muhammad and prevented them from gaining their
rightful place. In one of his orations which have been compiled
in the Nahj al-Balaghah, ‘Ali refers to the fact that Abu Bakr
knowingly and deliberately went against the expressed wish of
Muhammad when he took over the leadership of Islam (the
caliphate) instead of giving this to `Ali whom Muhammad had
named: ‘By God the son of Abu Quhafah [Abu Bakr] dressed
himself with it [the caliphate] and he certainly knew that my
position in relation to it was the same as the position of the
axis in relation to the hand-mill. The flood water flows down
from me and the bird cannot fly up to me.’5
Also related to this theme are ‘Ali’s words in another
oration, when he reminds his followers of events at the Battle of
Siffin and of how his enemy Mu’awiyah, at the battle of Siffin,
had used the outward appearance of piety to advance his inner
designs of enmity and his desire to grasp the leadership:
When they had raised the Qur’an by way of deceit,
craft, artifice and cheat, did you not say: ‘They are our
brothers and our comrades in accepting Islam. They
want us to cease fighting, and ask for protection
through the Book of Allah, the Glorified. Our opinion
is to agree with them and to end their troubles.’ Then I
said to you, ‘In this affair the outward appearance of
it is faith but the inner reality is enmity. Its beginning
is pity and the end is repentance. Consequently you
should stick to your position, and remain steadfast on
your path. You should press your teeth (to put all your
might) in jihad and should not pay heed to the shouts
of the shouter. If he is answered he would mislead, but
if he is left (unanswered) he will be disgraced.’6
Let us now proceed to consider what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says
about this verse from St Matthew’s Gospel. He states that the
Manifestations of God have two aspects — one is the place of
manifestation (i.e. the physical body of the Manifestation)
which can be compared to the globe of the sun, and the other

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
the ‘resplendency’ of the Manifestation (the divine qualities of
the Manifestations), which are like the heat and light coming
from the sun. It is the latter which is the defining characteristic
of the Manifestation; if it were not present then that
individual would not be the Manifestation. This appearance of
divine qualities in the person of the Manifestation is the
appearance of the Holy Spirit in them.7
If a person, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, remains remote from the
Manifestation, this can be corrected. The person did not
recognize the appearance of divine attributes in the
Manifestation but may be awakened from this state. If
however, a person hates the divine attributes themselves, in
other words hates the Holy Spirit, then this is a state that has
no remedy and cannot be forgiven; this person cannot be
awakened from this state because they are already fully aware
that the Manifestation is the possessor of divine attributes but
they hate those attributes and thus must remain far from the
Manifestation. The Manifestations dispense the bounties of
God through the Holy Spirit that appear in them, not through
their personality, therefore if a person hates the Holy Spirit,
that person cannot receive the bounties of God, remains
deprived and thus remains beyond the reach of the grace and
forgiveness of God. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out that many who
were enemies of the Manifestations of God later recognized
their error and were forgiven; they had been enemies of the
light-holder and remained distant but once they realised that
their enemy was in fact the place of the manifestation of light,
they came close, their enmity was transformed into love and
they were forgiven. However, those whose enmity is towards
the light itself must ever remain remote and for this condition
there is no remedy, no reunion and no forgiveness.8
This passage speaks of people who are utterly lost and have
put themselves beyond the reach of God’s grace and
forgiveness, and the Bahá’í scriptures also condemn in the
strongest possible terms those who are named covenant-
breakers. Indeed some of the expressions used in this passage
about blasphemy against the Holy Spirit are very similar to
language used regarding covenant-breakers; for example, in this
Bible passage about blasphemy and the commentary upon it, it
is made clear that some are ignorant of the fact that they are
attacking the Holy Spirit and these are not to be considered as
those who ‘blaspheme against the Holy Spirit’. It is only those
who are aware and knowingly do this that are considered

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
condemned. The same is stated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about
covenant-breakers:
Thus it is seen that no means for dissension hath been
left, but carnal desires are the cause of difference as it
is the case with the violators. These do not doubt the
validity of the Covenant but selfish motives have
dragged them to this condition. It is not that they do
not know what they do — they are perfectly aware and
still they exhibit opposition.9
Thus it is tempting to equate this passage about ‘Blasphemy
against the Holy Spirit’ with these condemnations of the
covenant-breakers. There exist however a number of points that
show that there may some distinction to be made.
1. In this passage it is stated that those who blaspheme
against the Holy Spirit cannot be forgiven. The Kitáb-i Aqdas
states however that the greatest covenant-breaker of the time of
Bahá’u’lláh, Mírzá Yahyá, can be forgiven (v. 184). This
difference can be explained however by pointing out that this
verse of the Kitáb-i Aqdas makes forgiveness conditional upon
the repentance of Mírzá Yahyá: ‘Return unto God, humble,
submissive and lowly.’ Thus it could be said that if Mírzá
Yahyá repented and returned to God, he was no longer in a
state of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit and thus no longer
in that state where God’s grace and forgiveness could not reach
him.
2. The passages about covenant-breaking in the Bahá’í
scriptures assign a number of motives to those who have
broken the Covenant: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that they ‘have an evil
intention and are thinking of leadership and of forming a
party’10 or are ‘deprived of the Spirit of God and are lost in
passion and are seeking leadership.’11 The passage regarding
‘blasphemy against the Holy Spirit’ does not ascribe any
motives to those who are in this position but rather posits a
metaphysical state — an evil tree bringing forth evil fruit is the
description given in the following verse (v. 33). It could
however be argued that the verses preceding those mentioning
‘blasphemy against the Holy Spirit’ state that the crowd were
wondering whether Jesus could be the Messiah as a result of the
miracle they had observed and it was in order to counter this
and to preserve their own leadership that the Pharisees made the
accusation that Jesus had worked the miracle through
Beelzebub and not by Divine power. Thus the Gospel passage

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
can be stated to ascribe motives of ‘seeking leadership’ to this
phenomenon in the same way as the above statements of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá do.
3. In ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s last Tablet to America in which there is
a long discourse on covenant-breaking and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes
a number of verses from the Gospels as referring to this
phenomenon, this passage is not mentioned.12
4. There are certain individuals who are described in
apocalyptic terms as the ‘Anti-Christ’. Since it is used in the
Bahá’í authoritative texts as a generic term applying even to
individuals in relation to the Bábí and Bahá’í religions, its
meaning must be opposition to Holy Spirit which is equally in
Christ, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. It would thus appear to be
synonymous with those who commit ‘blasphemy against the
Holy Spirit’. However, among those given this designation is
Hájí Mírzá Áqásí, the Prime Minister of Muhammad Shah who
is described as the Anti-Christ of the Bábí dispensation.13 He is
not however regarded as a covenant-breaker. Similarly the
passage in St Matthew’s Gospel that refers to ‘blasphemy
against the Holy Spirit’ is written in relation certain Pharisees
and their opposition to Jesus and these would not be
considered covenant-breakers in the Bahá’í usage of that word.
Thus it would seem that the two categories of those who
‘blaspheme against the Holy Spirit’ and covenant-breakers may
not be wholly congruous. Certainly it would appear that there
are some who fit in the first category who do not fit into the
second category — but it does seem likely that all who fit into
the second category are included in the first category — that is
to say, all covenant-breakers fit into the category of those who
‘blaspheme against the Holy Spirit’. It is of some interest to
note that in discussions of covenant-breaking, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
refers to Judas Iscariot14 and to ‘Umar.15
Definition and Classification of Covenant-breakers
The Universal House of Justice has described covenant-
breaker thus:
When a person declares his acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh as
a Manifestation of God he becomes a party to the
Covenant and accepts the totality of His Revelation. If
he then turns round and attacks Bahá’u’lláh or the
Central Institution of the Faith he violates the

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
Covenant. If this happens every effort is made to help
that person to see the illogicality and error of his
actions, but if he persists he must, in accordance with
the instructions of Bahá’u’lláh Himself, be shunned as
a Covenant-breaker.16
This is not however a comprehensive definition since some
who have been declared covenant-breakers do not fall within
this definition. This point may be further developed by
considering who are and are not in this category. Those who
are not Bahá’ís and oppose the Bahá’í Faith or its head (such as
many Muslim and Christian religious leaders) are not usually
considered Covenant-breakers; those who leave the Bahá’í Faith
because they have lost faith are similarly not considered
Covenant-breakers; and those who commit infractions of
Bahá’í law may loose their administrative rights, but are not
considered Covenant-breakers.
In considering those who are considered covenant-breakers,
it is useful to create a classification of these:
1. Leadership claimants: Those who raised a claim to
leadership of the Bahá’í community against the duly appointed
and authorised head of the Faith. These include Mírzá Yahyá
who is considered to have violated the clear instructions in the
writings of the Báb not to oppose anyone who claimed to be
the next Manifestation of God;17 Mírzá Muhammad ‘Alí who
opposed the authority of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and even plotted to have
‘Abdu’l-Bahá imprisoned or killed;18 and Charles Mason Remey
who claimed the Guardianship of the Bahá’í Faith after the
death of Shoghi Effendi.19
2. Dissidence: This group consists of those who accept the
legitimacy of the head of the Bahá’í Faith religion, but oppose
his policies and actions. This group consists mostly of
opponents of the Bahá’í administration such as Ruth White,
who was opposed to the concept of the Bahá’í administration
and tried to prove that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament was
a forgery as a way of discrediting it; and Ahmad Sohrab, who
opposed
the
concept
and
setting
up
of
the
Bahá’í
administration in the United States. He and his associate Julie
Chanler set up the New History Society as a way of spreading
the Bahá’í teachings but refused to allow it to be under the
authority of the National Spiritual Assembly of the United
States or the Local Spiritual Assembly of New York, where it
was based.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
3. Disobedience: Those who disobeyed the authorized head of
the Bahá’í Faith in a direct instruction from him have
sometimes been regarded as covenant-breakers and been
expelled. Of course it could be argued that most Bahá’ís have at
one time or another failed to obey one or other of the laws of
the Bahá’í Faith, which are the instructions of the head of the
religion.
It
has
however
been
disobedience
to
the
administrative injunctions directed by the head of the Bahá’í
Faith towards particular individuals or groups of people that
have caused people to be expelled. Thus for example, Amínu’lláh
Faríd was expelled when he left Haifa for Europe and North
America against the instructions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who wanted
to protect the Western Bahá’ís from him. Similarly in the years
after World War II, Shoghi Effendi felt that the arrival of large
numbers of Iranian students in the United States was
swamping the American Bahá’í community and damaging its
organic growth.
4. Association: Individuals associating with covenant-
breakers can, if they do not cease doing so after being warned,
be declared covenant-breakers. This may be considered part of
the previous category, in that successive heads of the Bahá’í
Faith have always instructed Bahá’ís to avoid contact with
covenant-breakers and thus association with known covenant-
breakers could be considered an act of disobedience to the head
of the Faith The reasoning given by the head of the Faith in this
instance is however different. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá likens covenant-
breaking to a contagious spiritual disease and states that this
is why association with covenant-breakers is forbidden. In his
last tablet to the Bahá’ís of America he wrote:
In short, the point is this: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is extremely
kind, but when the disease is leprosy, what am I to do?
Just
as
in
bodily
diseases
we
must
prevent
intermingling and infection and put into effect
sanitary laws — because the infectious physical diseases
uproot the foundation of humanity; likewise one must
protect and safeguard the blessed souls from the
breaths
and
fatal
spiritual
diseases;
otherwise
violation, like the plague, will become a contagion and
all will perish. In the early days, after the Ascension of
the Blessed Beauty, the centre of violation was alone;
little by little the infection spread; and this was due to
companionship and association.20

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
Similarly Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf,
warns that the Bahá’ís of the West do not sufficiently
appreciate the dangers of contact with covenant-breakers:
… It is a pity that some of the Western friends, with
remarkable naivete, do not grasp the fact that there is
absolutely nothing keeping those who have broken the
Covenant, whether Bahá’u’lláh’s or the Master’s, out of
the Cause of God except their own inner spiritually
sick condition. If they were sound, instead of diseased,
and wanted to enter the service of our Faith, they
would apply direct to the Guardian, and he would be
able to adjudge of their sincerity and, if sincere, would
welcome them into the ranks of the faithful as he did
with Sydney Sprague. Unfortunately a man who is ill is
not made well just by asserting there is nothing wrong
with him! Facts, actual states, are what count.
Probably no group of people in the world have softer
tongues, or proclaim more loudly their innocence, then
those who in their heart of hearts, and by their every
act, are enemies of the Centre of the Covenant. The
Master well knew this, and that is why He said we must
shun their company, but pray for them. If you put a
leper in a room with healthy people, he cannot catch
their health; on the contrary they are very likely to catch
his horrible ailment.21
Many of the members of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s family were declared
covenant-breakers because of their continued association with
other members of the family who had previously been declared
covenant-breakers, for example three of the daughters of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá: Rúhá, Túbá and Munavvar Khánum, as well as
several of their children.
5. Children of Covenant-Breakers. This category may be
considered a sub-section of the above category, but again,
some different considerations apply, in that, although the same
considerations of contagion apply, the association of children
with their parents is not a voluntary one. Despite this, the
children of covenant-breakers are regarded as covenant-
breakers. The reason is given in a letter written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi:
The friends are sometimes surprisingly naive and
superficial in their approach to the subject of
Covenant-breakers. They do not seem to understand

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
that the descendants of Azal, with their mother’s milk,
drank hatred of Bahá’u’lláh, just as the descendants of
Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí and his relatives have imbibed
from babyhood a false concept of the Master. It takes
practically a miracle to overcome this lifelong habit of
wrong thought.22
Thus for example, Parvine Afnan Shahid, the daughter of the
marriage between two grand-children of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
determined by the Universal House of Justice to be a covenant-
breaker in 1996, since by virtue of her continued association
with this lady, another Bahá’í was declared a covenant-
breaker.23
Classification of Those who Blaspheme against the
Holy Spirit
It is then possible to create a classification of those who
may be regarded as having blasphemed against the Holy Spirit:
1. Covenant-Breakers according to the above classification.
2. Apostasy. Although most individuals who leave the Bahá’í
community because of loss of belief are not considered any
differently from those who have never been Bahá’ís, there have
been a small number of persons who left the community and
then began to attack it maliciously and vehemently and who are
referred to in terms identical to those he used of the
Covenant-breakers. Indeed, this goes back to the time of the
Báb, who characterised three of his followers (Mullá Javád
Baraghání, Mullá ‘Abdu’l-‘Alí Hirátí, and Mírzá Ibráhím
Shírází), who out of jealousy towards the station of Mulla
Husayn Bushru’i, left the Bábí community, joined with the
Báb’s enemy, the Shaykhí leader Mírzá Muhammad Karim Khan
Kirmani. According to Nabíl, these three persons were
compared in the Báb’s writing with Sámirí who, according to
Islamic tradition, produced the calf for the Israelites to
worship, and with Jibt and Tághút, two idol worshipped by
Quraysh24 B language very similar to that later used by
Bahá’u’lláh
and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
with
regard
to
the
Covenant-breakers.25
An apostate from the time of Shoghi Effendi was Mírzá
‘Abdu’l-Husayn Taftí, known as Ávárih (1290/1873-1953), who
wrote a book called Kashfu’l-Hiyal (The Uncovering of

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
Trickery) in three volumes attacking the Bahá’í Faith and its
central figures in vitriolic and intemperate language. Shoghi
Effendi urged the Bahá’ís of Iran to avoid all contact with
Ávárih26 and, in one of his letters to the Bahá’ís of Iran, Shoghi
Effendi referred to Ávárih as a dead body which the surging
ocean of the Cause of God had cast upon its shores27, all very
reminiscent of the actions taken and words used against
covenant-breakers by both Shoghi Effendi and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Indeed, in one of his writings, Shoghi Effendi groups together
‘the rejected Ávárih’ with the ‘the jealous covenant-breaker
[Mírzá Muhammad ‘Ali], the thankless Yahyá [Azal], and Karím
the transgressor [Khan Kirmani]’.28 Shoghi Effendi also
describes Ávárih as Satan (Iblis), which is the same term used by
Bahá’u’lláh (‘Satan, in the garb of man’) about covenant-
breakers.29
3. Religious Leaders and others who knowingly oppose the
Bahá’í Faith. It is clear from the Kitáb-i-ˆqán that not all
religious leaders who oppose the Bahá’í Faith are in this
category since some are stated to have opposed out of
ignorance:
Leaders of religion, in every age, have hindered their
people from attaining the shores of eternal salvation,
inasmuch as they held the reins of authority in their
mighty grasp. Some for the lust of leadership, others
through want of knowledge and understanding, have
been the cause of the deprivation of the people. By their
sanction and authority, every Prophet of God hath
drunk from the chalice of sacrifice, and winged His
flight unto the heights of glory.30
Those who recognize the truth of the new religion and still
oppose because of ‘lust of leadership’, are however in this
category. The clearest example of this is Hájí Mírzá Áqásí who
is identified as the Anti-Christ of the Bábí religion. There are
however other clerics who are stigmatized by Bahá’u’lláh with
such labels as Dhi’b (the wolf, Shaykh Muhammad Báqir Najafí
of Isfahan) and Raqshá (the she-serpent, Mír Muhammad
Husayn Imám-Jum’ih of Isfahan), while others are condemned
in his writings, such as Muhammad Karím Khán Kirmání.
Interestingly, Ávárih, who was named in the previous category
is also named Raqshá by Shoghi Effendi.31

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Causes of Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
We may also try to assess the causes of this phenomenon.
Why would anyone knowingly attack what they know to be
good? The following suggested causes are not intended to be
exclusive. Most individual cases contain elements of more than
one. The following are some preliminary ideas on this:
1. Desire for leadership of the Bahá’í community and a
jealousy of the position of power and leadership of the head of
the religion. Such motives are hinted at repeatedly in the
authoritative Bahá’í texts; thus ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
Thus it is seen that the ocean of the Covenant hath
surged and surged until it hath thrown out the dead
bodies — souls that are deprived of the Spirit of God
and are lost in passion and self and are seeking
leadership.32
The importance of this matter is pointed out by the Universal
House of Justice:
The seriousness of Covenant-breaking is that it strikes
at the very centre and foundation of the unity of
mankind. If God were to allow the instrument to be
divided and impaired, how then would His purpose be
achieved?33
This applies mainly of course to those in category 1 of the
classification of Covenant-Breaking given above — those who
contended directly for leadership, such Mírzá Muhammad ‘Alí
and Charles Mason Remey.
2. Rebelliousness and pride. Where there is no attempt to
gain the leadership of the Bahá’í Faith, the actions of rebelling
and opposing the head of the Bahá’í Faith appear to derive
mainly from a refusal to submit to the leadership of the head of
the religion out of pride or stubbornness. Thus for example,
Ahmad Sohrab, although to some extent exhibiting a desire for
leadership, was eventually expelled because of his refusal to
submit to the Bahá’í administration that Shoghi Effendi was
putting in place. Shoghi Effendi writes:
However, since the Master’s Will was read, and the
administrative order, under the Guardianship, began
to be developed, he [Ahmad Sohrab] became cognizant
of the fact that his personal ambition for leadership

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
would have to be subordinated to some degree of
supervision; that he would have to obey the National
and local assemblies — just like every other Bahá’í, and
could not be free to teach wholly independent of any
advice or supervision. This was the beginning of the
defection which in the end took him outside the pale of
the Faith: he refused not to be handled always as an
exception, a privileged exception. In fact, if we keenly
analyse it, it is almost invariably the soaring ambition
and deep self-love of people that has led them to leave
the Faith.34
3. Contempt born of closeness. In many of the members of
the family of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá who were expelled, a
certain degree of contempt for the head of the religion can be
seen. Simply put, the family of Bahá’u’lláh (except Bahiyyih
Khánum), were unable to transfer the respect that they had for
Bahá’u’lláh to the new head of the religion, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Similarly, the family of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was unwilling or unable to
transfer the respect they had for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the new head
of the religion Shoghi Effendi. Thus in the case of Shoghi
Effendi, they had known the head of the religion as a boy and
considered that they knew his foibles and weaknesses; they did
not see why they, who were also members of the “Holy Family”
should be ordered around by this youngster. Indeed they
considered it their duty to give Shoghi Effendi the benefit of
their experience and advice. In the case of Mírzá Muhammad
‘Alí’s family, they thought of the leadership of the Bahá’í Faith
as a family affair in which they had a share and they were
annoyed with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for depriving them of what they
considered their rightful claim to both the leadership and of
income.
This can be most clearly seen in the case of the actions of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s family. While ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was alive, none of
them would have ever considered any major life decision
(marriage, a major journey, or the name of a child) without
seeking ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s advice, approval and blessing. They were
unable to transfer this respect to Shoghi Effendi. Even if we
leave aside the fact that Shoghi Effendi was the head of the
Bahá’í faith, as eldest grandson of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he was the
head of the family and the customs of a traditional Middle
Eastern family would demand that the head of the family be
consulted about major life decisions and his blessing obtained.
So when Shoghi Effendi’s sister Ruhangiz married Nayyir
Afnan while Shoghi Effendi was absent and without informing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
him, and his other sister and cousin married two brothers of
Nayyir Afnan (again without seeking his approval), and his
brother Husayn Rabbani married a German girl without
consulting him and Ruhi Afnan went off on a trip to America
without his approval all of these omissions showed contempt
for his headship and authority both in the family and in the
Bahá’í Faith; they were deliberate and very open snubs to Shoghi
Effendi which would have been evident to all of the members of
the family and even to the people of Haifa and beyond. When
Munib Shahid married the grand-daughter of an avowed enemy
of the Bahá’í Faith, Al-Husayni, the Mufti of Jerusalem, in a
Muslim ceremony, at a time when Shoghi Effendi was striving
to establish the independence of the Bahá’í Faith from Islam,
this was not only a personal snub to Shoghi Effendi who was
not consulted but also to what he was striving to achieve for
the Bahá’í Faith.
4. Desire to maintain leadership. Those clerics who opposed
the Bahá’í Faith did so out of a fear for their position in
society and their wealth. This includes Hájí Mírzá Áqásí, who
as well as being Prime Minister, was the spiritual guide of
Muhammad Shah. It also applies to the other clerics mentioned.
It also brings us back to the quotation from the Gospel of St
Matthew with which we started this paper, because of course
the people to whom these words of Christ about ‘blasphemy
against the Holy Spirit were directed were the Pharisees, the
Jewish religious leaders who feared for their position and
wealth if the people thought that Jesus really was the Messiah,
son of David.
Conclusions
In summary, a number of conclusions can thus be drawn
about this phenomenon of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit:
1. This phenomenon seen in all religions. In this paper, we
have seen that it is present in both Christianity and the Bahá’í
faith. However, from a Bahá’í perspective, the phenomenon of
covenant-breaking has also occurred in Islam with the
usurpation of ‘Ali’s succession to the prophet Muhammad and
the opposition of the Umayyad dynasty to the Imams. And so
it would appear to be a general phenomenon across all religions

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit
2. Consists of knowing opposition to the truth. The
phenomenon consists of knowingly opposing and attacking the
source of divine guidance.
3. Can be external to the religion. Some of the religious
leaders of the previous religious dispensations who, knowing
the new religion to be the truth nevertheless oppose it, are
considered to be in this category.
4. Can be internal to the religion. This is opposition to the
head of the Bahá’í Faith or founder of the religion or
disobedience of direct instructions of that leader.
5. The motives of those engaged in this activity, insofar as
they can be ascertained are those of jealousy and pride
6. Since making a judgement as to who is to be classed as
having blasphemed against the Holy Spirit involves an
assessment of the inner spiritual state of a person, only
divinely inspired leadership can make such a judgement.

NOTES
1 Matthew Henry, A Commentary on the Old and New Testaments,
London:
Cassell’s,
1876.
See
www.ccel.org/ccel/henry/mhc5.i_1.xiii.html (accessed 22 May 2008)
2 www.christnotes.org/commentary.php?com=wes&b=40&c=12 (accessed 22
June 2008)
3 The Testament of Solomon (trans. F. C. Conybeare) verse 26; see
www.esotericarchives.com/solomon/testamen.htm
(accessed
September 2008)
4 Qur’an 7:11-13
5 Imam ‘Ali, Khut@bah ash-Shiqshiqiyyah, Nahj al-Balaghah. The allusion to
flood water is said to denote knowledge, while it is stated that Abu Bakr
had towards the end of his life likened himself to a bird.
6 Imam ‘Ali, Sermon 121, Nahj al-Balaghah
7 Some Answered Questions (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981),
p. 127
8 Some Answered Questions, pp. 127-8
9 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1978 ), p. 215-6
10 The Covenant Of Bahá’u’lláh (Manchester: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1950), p. 154
11 Star of the West, vol. 10, no. 14 (23 Nov. 1919), p. 265

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

12 Bahá’í World Faith (2nd edn., Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1976), pp. 429-38 (see esp. pp. 431-2)
13 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By (rev. edn., Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1974), p. 164; Shoghi Effendi, High Endeavors: Messages to
Alaska ([Anchorage]: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Alaska, 1976), p. 69
14 Bahá’í World Faith, p. 432
15 In particular ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to the words of ‘Umar: ‘the Book of
God is enough for us’ which blocked the desire of the Prophet
Muhammad on his death-bed to write down the appointment of his
successor. See Law˙-i Hizár Baytí, Muntakhabátí az Mak  t  b-i Hadrat-i
‘Abdu’l-Bah  , vol. 4 (Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 2000), pp.
263-5
16 Letter to an individual Bahá’í dated 23 March 1975, quoted in The Power
of the Covenant, Part Two (Thornhill, Ontario: National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1987), pp. 7-8
17 This statement is in the Persian Bayan, Vahid 6, chap. 8
18 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 249, 269-271
19 The most comprehensive and authoritative statement of the Bahá’í
position on Mason Remey is contained in a memorandum ‘Mason
Remey and Those Who Followed Him’ issued with a letter from the
Universal House of Justice to all national assemblies, 31 January 1997.
See also Adib Taherzadeh, Child of the Covenant (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2000), pp. 369-71
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, p. 438. Shoghi Effendi later had to
state that this analogy should not be taken too far: ‘… Covenant
Breaking is truly a Spiritual disease, and the whole view-point and
attitude of a Covenant Breaker is so poisonous that the Master likened
it to leprosy, and warned the friends to breathe the same air was
dangerous. This should not be taken literally; He meant when you are
close enough to breathe the same air you are close enough to contact
their corrupting influence. Your sister should never imagine she, loyal
and devoted, has become a “carrier”.’ (From a letter written on behalf
of the Guardian to an individual believer, 29 July 1946 in Lights of
Guidance, p. 183)
21 From a letter written on behalf of the Guardian to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States, April 11, 1949; in Lights of
Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File (compiled by Helen Hornby, 2nd
edn., New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988), p. 187
22 From a letter dated 18 August 1949 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi
to a National Spiritual Assembly in the compilation from the Universal
House of Justice: ‘Non-Association with Covenant-breakers’, see
bahai-library.com/unpubl.compilations/covenant-breakers.html
(accessed 1 July 2008)

Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit

23 Letter of Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assembly of
New Zealand, 12 December 1996; Letter of National Spiritual Assembly
of the New Zealand to Bahá’ís of New Zealand, 16 December, 1996.
24 The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í
Revelation, Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970), p. 162
25 Star of the West, vol. 13 (1922), pp. 20-22; Bahá’í World Faith, p. 429-38
(esp. p. 431); Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 4
(Oxford: George Ronald, 1987), p. 211
26 Shoghi Effendi, Tawqi’at 1922-1948 (Tehran: Mu’assih Millí Matbú’át
Amrí, 130 B.E./1973), p. 13
27 Adib Taherzadeh, The Child of the Covenant, p. 295
28 Ma’idih Asmani (9 vols., Tehran: Mu’assih Millí Matbú’át Amrí. 121-129
B.E./1964-1972), vol. 6, p. 64; Tawqi’at 1927-1939 (Tehran: Mu’assih
Millí Matbú’át Amrí. 129 B.E./1972), p. 186
29 Shoghi Effendi, Tawqi’at 1927-1939, p. 188; cf. Bahá’u’lláh quoted by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Bahá’í World Faith, p. 430
30 Bahá’u’lláh. The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, the Book of Certitude (trans. Shoghi
Effendi, 2nd edn., Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974), p. 15
31 Tawqi’at 1927-1939, p. 188
32 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 210
33 Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated 23 March 1975, to an
individual; in Developing Distinctive Bahá’í Communities (Wilmette,
IL: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States,
1968), section 5.14; see bahai-library.com/?file=nsa_developing_dis-
tinctive_communities.html&chapter=1#5.1 (accessed 4 September 2008).
34 Shoghi Effendi, The Light of Divine Guidance: The Messages from the
Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of Germany and Austria (2
vols., Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1982), vol. 1, p. 134

Man Is Man
‘Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Overview
The essential harmony of science and religion is an
underpinning belief of the Bahá’í Faith.1 Indeed, few are the
established world religions whose sacred literature and
teachings so vigorously promote unbiased and unfettered
scientific inquiry as does the Bahá’í Faith. For Bahá’ís, the
absence of this foundational principle reduces religion to a
mere set of superstitions, bankrupt beliefs and ruinous rituals.
Bahá’í teachings laud science and reason as indispensable
complements to faith and spirituality, and Bahá’ís believe that
religion must at all times conform to science and reason.2
Intelligence and erudition gained through scientific pursuits
cannot, therefore, be discordant with mystical proclivity and
the pursuit of spirituality. ‘Abdul-Bahá, the eldest son and
appointed successor of Bahá’u’lláh, the prophet-founder of the
Bahá’í religion, elucidated the central importance of the
principle of the harmony of science and religion in talks and
speeches delivered to diverse Western audiences a century ago.3
The premise of the essential harmony of science and religion
gives rise to a plethora of thought-provoking and troubling
uncertainties for many scientists. The notion that science and
religion can somehow be harmonized is not universally
accepted by the scientific community, primarily since abstract
notions such as spirituality do not lend themselves to the
scientific method of inquiry.4 For centuries scientists have
investigated and debated vexing questions such as the manner
and timing of the formation of the cosmos and the origin of
mankind.
The
existence,
or
not,
of
an
omniscient,
transcendent entity called God has always been at the center of
these debates. In fact, throughout history, many a renowned
scientist, philosopher and soothsayer has given life and limb in
these quests but today the same incommodious questions

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
remain the subject of heated arguments among scientists and
religionists of all persuasions, from the occident to the orient.
Most modern scientists leave no room for a divinely-inspired
creative force nor do they see a need for anything but chance or
accident as sufficient rationalization for the universe and all
living beings therein. While the scientific community has
progressively converged around Evolution and the Big Bang
theories to explain the origins of mankind and the formation
of the cosmos, respectively, the Bahá’í teachings (as well as
those of other religions) unequivocally affirm and attribute
these events to divine will. Importantly, Bahá’í teachings
accommodate intra-species evolution as a matter of growth
and refinement, yet the notion that mankind somehow evolved
from some other species, such as the ape life form, is spurned.
Bahá’ís deem humanity as having been inimitably created by
God as “the most noble” of all species. Further, the human
species
has
been
uniquely
endowed
with
spiritual
susceptibilities and intellectual faculties. In the Hidden
Words, Bahá’u’lláh affirms “… I have created thee rich,” or “…
noble have I created thee,” or “… I knew my love for thee;
therefore I created thee,” this notion is referred to throughout
the Writings.5 The Bahá’í viewpoint maintains that the divinely
endowed gifts of spirituality and intellect elevate humankind
above all other creation and equip him to solve complex and
confounding conundrums. Through these gifts alone mankind
is able to discern and discover the world of existence and to
unlock its inscrutable wonders. Advocating creationism—the
belief in a deity as the creator of the earth, imminently involved
and ready to intervene when necessary—is not unique to the
Bahá’í religion.6 This belief has been upheld by many schools of
philosophy, various secular and spiritual movements as well as
the Semitic religious traditions of Judaism, Christianity and
Islam, which hold in common the belief in monotheism, the
reality of a hereafter and the interminable tension between
good and evil in earthly existence. Nonetheless, it cannot escape
our attention that belief in creationism has been seriously
strained by the scientific community’s reliance on the post-
Darwinian concepts of natural selection and inter-species
transmutation as the inexorable explanations for the origin of
the human life form on earth. While Bahá’í teachings roundly
reject the notion that mankind evolved from some other
species, the scientific community assiduously supports and
substantiates Darwinian evolutionary theories in its quest to
unravel this ultimate conundrum.7

Man is Man
What can be made of this seeming dogmatic dichotomy
between science and religion? Were we inimitably created
through “intelligent design” in the image of God or did we
randomly and through chance alone evolve from the ape life
form? Are creatures and species purposeless in their existence
or is there an immutable divine plan at work, lending function
and purpose to life? Such inquiries are yet to be conclusively
assuaged and reconciled despite momentous advances in
scientific knowledge and philosophical wisdom since the mid-
nineteenth century when the British scientist Charles Darwin
(1809-1882) first published his theories and explanations on
human origin and evolution.8 Here, we will review some of the
salient statements of ‘Abdul-Bahá on the necessity of the
agreement between science and religion and examine their
significance as they pertain to the disentanglement of the
mystery surrounding the origin of mankind. Many of the
explanations ‘Abdul-Bahá provided on this and related topics
can be found in the collection of semi-private talks he gave to
Laura Clifford Barney in Akka, Palestine during 1904-1906. The
notes from these eclectic talks were authenticated by ‘Abdul-
Bahá himself and subsequently translated and published by
Barney circa 1908 in London under the title Some Answered
Questions. In the foreword to the 1981 edition of this
collection, the publisher comments on ‘Abdul-Bahá’s style of
discourse as “treading the mystical path with practical feet”
and affirms ‘Abdul-Bahá’s explanations of the origin,
development
and
purpose
for
human
existence
as
substantiation of the Bahá’í principle of the harmony of
science and religion. (SAQ) This paper, whose aim is to induce
more questions than conclusions, is dedicated to the centenary
commemoration of this notable publication, and is offered as
an enticement for further study by interested students and
scholars of the Bahá’í Faith.
Religion, Science and Darwinian Evolutionary Thought
Scientists subject conjectures, hypotheses and theories to
observable, empirical, measurable and persistent proofs. This
is the essence of the scientific method and it brooks no
deviation
from
absolute
objectivity
in
observation,
measurement and analysis. But how are such proofs to be
tendered for faith-based convictions? Can a religious code of
beliefs lend itself to dispassionate scientific inquiry? One of
the intractable realities that inevitably crops up in a discourse

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
on science and religion is the inherently distinct spheres,
respectively, of human cognition and human emotion, to
which they appeal. Religion has a close affinity with the realm
of authority and power, while science is closely aligned with the
realms of logic and reason.9 Can these seemingly incongruent
realms be reconciled or harmonized? Bahá’í teachings endeavor
to bridge the gulf between scientific analysis and religious
belief
by
underscoring
the
complementarity
and
the
interdependence of these distinct realms. For a Bahá’í there is
not a choice between science or religion; rather, they seek a
blend of both. This is a crucial point to bear in mind as we
explore the tension between science and religion over the hotly
debated topic of the origin of mankind. This issue also lies at
the heart of the as-yet unsettled difference of opinion between
scientific and faith-based communities over the reality of an
omniscient, transcendent creator.
For a fuller understanding of Charles Darwin’s theory of
evolution, which itself has evolved over time, it is instructive
to examine the essence of his initial observations and
inferences. In his seminal and ground-breaking work On the
Origin of Species, published in 1859 to great acclaim, he
attempts to document the manner in which living organisms
grow and adapt to their environments through a process called
natural selection.10 This is the process wherein genetic
inheritances vary through successive generations to facilitate
the survival and flourishing of the species in their natural
habitats. The innate competition for survival is at the root of
Darwin’s theory of evolution. Food, climate, habitat and social
forces such as alliances or wars are some of the key
determinants of survival. Each generation survives the
challenges imposed by these forces through adoption of or
adaptation
to
its
new-found
ecosystem.
Furthermore,
environmental conditions can also engender the appearance or
the disappearance of physical behaviors, bodily organs or other
acclimatization necessary for the survival of the species.
Darwin deemed the process of natural selection to be random
and uncoordinated, yet the result appears to be anything but
haphazard, remarkably efficient and in step with the exigencies
of survival. Darwin went to great lengths to explain the origin
and transformations of various living organisms such as
plants, insects and birds. He deduced that continued self-
fertilization was not conducive to survival since organisms
could not retain sufficient genetic variability to survive
sudden or harsh environmental alterations. He posited that the

Man is Man
current forms and conditions of many species had traversed
through the process of natural selection via several stages of
transmutations from only a few common ancestors. Through
observation, meticulous record keeping and field work, Darwin
concluded that beneficial gene variants survived randomly by
means of, and perhaps because of, environmental exigencies.
As a consequence, useful genetic information survived and was
passed down through the generations resulting in inter-
relatedness of various organisms and species, all of which was
dictated by the notion of the survival of the fittest.11 He
concluded that adaptation to changing environmental
conditions result in the variations seen in different species.
One of Darwin’s significant findings, and later confirmed by
functionalist evolutionary biologists such as Dawkins, is that
evolution is a slow and gradual process. It requires the passage
of decades, if not centuries, for an evolved state to take hold,
reach
equilibrium
with
its
environment
and
become
noticeable.12 This important concept will be explored more
fully later in the paper.
While he was not the first scientist to put forward such
claims, the scale and the consequences of Darwin’s inferences,
especially his hypotheses on the evolution of the human species,
published in 1871 in The Descent of Man, reverberated through
the sanctuaries of science and the hallowed halls of established
religions.13 Darwin’s publications sent trembles through the
world of science and his swelling coterie of supporters
shattered age-old conviction in creationism and essentialist
biology that had heretofore held sway over much of human
civilization, philosophy and scientific inquiry. His intimation
that homo sapiens transmuted from the pre-existing ape life
form was particularly controversial in his lifetime and
continues to be so to the present. Why is his theory on the
origin of the human species pregnant with such controversy?
Most people of faith find the acquiescence to Darwinian
evolutionary thought to be untenable precisely because this
theory obviates the need for a divine and transcendent creator.
The role of God, if this abstract concept can be accommodated
in Darwinian thought at all, is relegated to that of a remote,
disinterested, disempowered entity. This is anathema to most
religionists. Darwin left no room for divine intervention in the
world of existence. Neither did he allow for any special purpose
for creation. He famously was “… inclined to looking at
everything as resulting from designed laws, with the details,
whether good or bad, left to the working out of what we may

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
call chance.”14 Being at first bound for the comfortable life of a
priest, Darwin was marginally content with the idea of a
creative God, his later agnosticism notwithstanding. It is the
trust, however tenuous, in “designed laws” that will be explored
further in this paper for potential congruence to Bahá’í beliefs.
Over time, the influence exerted by Darwinian evolutionary
thinking has progressively permeated nearly all branches of
science.
Evolution or Revolution?
A brief chronological review of a select sampling of
scientific
and
philosophical
excogitations
and
accomplishments in the decades leading up to Darwin may
prove instructive in better appreciating the magnitude of his
contributions to the world of science. For brevity, we will
confine our cursory survey to influential Western thinkers.
The 16th-century physicist, philosopher and father of modern
science, Galileo Galilei (1564-1642), audaciously set forth
scientific inquiry to explain the nature of the universe despite
severe oppression and forced recantation imposed on him by
the Catholic Church. His support of the Copernican notion of
the heliocentricity of the universe was abhorrent to the Pope
and the society of his time, which were deeply ingrained in the
Aristotelian
belief
in
geocentricism.
Yet,
Galileo’s
contributions to astronomy, physics and mathematics paved
the way for many important findings and discoveries both
during and after his lifetime.15 Galileo’s scientific findings
were as ground-breaking and world-shattering as those
proposed by Darwin. Following on Galileo’s heels, consider
Gottfried Leibniz (1646-1716), philosopher, mathematician,
inventor of calculus and the binary system, and perhaps one of
the greatest rationalists and a superlative intellect of his time.
It is said that Leibniz wrote a proof for the existence of God
and
shared
it
with
Baruch
Spinoza
(1632-1677),
his
contemporary philosopher and proponent of epistemology.16
Leibniz’ philosophy comprehended a pre-established harmony
which he attributed to a perfect being. Spinoza, widely
acknowledged as having ushered in the dawn of the
Enlightenment in Europe that set off a revolution resulting in
many advancements in the arts and sciences, was largely in
agreement with Leibniz. However, Spinoza was inclined to
equate God with nature and believed that humans were
emanations of that natural essence.17 Although Spinoza was

Man is Man
derided as an atheist and a heretic for his views, yet the power
of his influence survived and grew long after his death. As with
Darwin, the thinking advanced by the likes of Leibniz and
Spinoza were radical departures from conventional wisdom
and stimulated a great deal of intellectual pursuits. Another
contemporary of Leibniz, Sir Isaac Newton (1643-1727), the
physicist,
mathematician
and
theologian,
imparted
to
posterity many scientific contributions such as gravity,
optics, the laws of motion and numerous other important
findings.18 Arguably, Newton can be considered as the most
prolific scientist of all time. Being a deeply religious man, he
was quick to point out that while gravity explained planetary
motion it could not explain how the planets were set in motion
in the first place. Newton believed in the existence of a
supernatural being from whose will the universe had come into
existence. Newton’s revolutionary discoveries created the
bedrock for future scientific pursuits and inventions in the
same manner that Darwin’s theories paved the way for modern-
day advances in biology and genetics research.
Following Newton, the 18th-century philosopher and logician
Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) eloquently argued for the existence
of God, freedom and immortality as the necessities of human
life. Kant proposed that scientific reasoning was limited, and
thus one could not firmly prove or disprove the existence of
God. Such an “intelligible unity” could only be proved with
practical intent, as if there be a God.19 Kant is considered to be
one of the giants in the world of philosophy and is said to have
greatly
influenced
later
philosophers
such
as
Hegel,
Schopenhauer and others. Finally, Kant’s contemporary
astronomer and mathematician, Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749-
1827), rose to become one of the greatest scientists of all time.
Laplace is considered to be the father of probability theory,
statistics and of Scientific Determinism — a set of precise laws
that explain the evolution of the universe.20 While Laplace
could convincingly argue and establish the evolution of the
universe, yet he found himself at a loss to explain its initial
state; reminiscent of Newton, he could not explicate how the
laws that governed the universe were chosen and instead
attributed them to an unknowable God.21 As with Darwin,
Laplace introduced revolutionary thinking within the world of
science but was unable to fully explain all of his findings and
thinking.
The common thread through this survey is clear: most of the
influential scientists and philosophers that pre-dated Darwin,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
while not in full agreement over the details, still promoted or
allowed the notion of a creative force to whose will or action
they attributed earthly existence. It remains unclear to what
extent they directly influenced Darwin’s own beliefs and
thinking. Yet, the upshot of Darwinian theories pertaining to
evolution and the origin of the human species has been nothing
short of a monumental scientific achievement, despite its
radical denial of a creative force. Although largely accepted,
Darwin’s revolutionary contributions to the world of science
remain controversial to the present.
The Limits of Science
The modern practice of science has been reduced to the
formulation of mathematical models and the administration of
empirical experiments. The process of arriving at these models
and experiments is iterative and prone to errors and false
assumptions along the way. Future generations of scientists
routinely prove their preceding peers wrong. Consider for
instance Pythagoras, the Greek philosopher, mystic and
mathematician. According to Russell, no other man “…has been
as influential as he was in the sphere of thought,” yet in recent
times he is found wanting in the “… intimate blending of
religion and reasoning, of moral aspiration with logical
admiration of what is timeless…”22 This is an ironic
observation that we will contend with later in this paper.
Is scientific thinking limiting, as Kant and others have
suggested? The scientific method is dependent on our ability to
precisely measure phenomena in a predictable and repeatable
manner. But we know from Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle
that no scientific experiment or measurement is accurate
owing to the imprecision of measuring techniques and tools. In
like manner, we know from Gödel’s incompleteness theorem
that a consistent set of axioms to prove all of mathematics is
virtually impossible.23 These examples of the limits of science
militate for caution when either scientists or religionists
advance triumphalist and absolutist claims in the effort to
prove their point or to disprove those of their opponents.
Moreover, one might legitimately ask: what animates scientific
models and mathematical equations? Indeed, why should there
be a universe for science to discover or for religion to describe
in the first place? In the words of the pre-eminent
contemporary physicist, Stephen Hawking, “… why does the
universe bother to exist?” 24 The answers to these questions are

Man is Man
anything but clear or conclusive when viewed exclusively
through the lens of science or of religion. Scientific methods
and laws address material existence but do not admit the
existence, or accommodate the analysis, of metaphysical
abstractions. Religion can fulfill a complementary role by
providing an explanation for phenomenon that have yet to be
explained by any branch of science. Ultimately, the Bahá’í
principle of the harmony of science and religion maintains that
scientific truths must be complemented by belief in a
transcendent creator, whose will is the impetus for the
existence of the cosmos, of human life and of all other living
forms in nature.
Earlier we mentioned that evolutionary scientists insist on
randomness and chance as the inexorable explanation for
human evolution. The existence of a creative force or a plan
that could potentially regulate the cosmos and earthly life, if
not rejected outright, is seen as doubtful by many scientists.25
Human existence can be understood as the result of
transmutation from an earlier life form, most likely the ape
species. Further, Darwinism has been embraced as “liberation
from the delusion that its [human] destiny is controlled by a
power higher than itself.”26 Judging by the rigorous
requirements
of
the
scientific
method,
are
there
incontrovertible proofs to these assertions? While science is on
the march to uncover these claims, more recently some
scientists have suggested that the extent of genetic change
through natural selection is too narrow a concept to be
scientifically useful since there has not been a sufficient
passage of time to conclusively establish the evolution of
complex species from single cells.27 Even so, there is a growing
body of evidence that seeks to substantiate the evolution of
multi-cellular organisms by tracking changes in proteins and
enzymes through time, and to map the formation of these
organisms from the fusion of single cells.28 Interestingly,
Collins has compressed 4.5 billion years of evolutionary life
into a 24-hour span of time to drive home the need for
temporal
perspective
in
better
understanding
cellular
evolution. From the diagram below, adapted from Collins, we
can get an appreciation of our collective proximity to the
proverbial trees (and in our inability to clearly see the forest):29

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

In this diagram, the earth was formed at midnight, the first
emanations of life forms appeared sometime around 3:30 past
midnight, and the Cambrian explosion occurred at 9:00 in the
evening, suggesting a relatively long passage of time for the
progression
of
multi-cellular
organisms.
Following
the
appearance and extinction of dinosaurs, mammals began to
diverge into different life forms sometime around 11:58 at
night. Modern man appeared a minute before midnight. Notice
that in relative terms only a minute has transpired from the
inception of human life to today. Recall also that most
scientists are agreed that the Darwinian concept of natural
selection is a gradual phenomenon and can be subject to many
divergent outcomes through time. Given that in relative terms
we have not yet witnessed a sufficient passage of time to draw
definitive conclusions about the evolution of the species,
especially the human life form, is it plausible to only rely on
scientific explanation for the origin of mankind or the manner
of the formation of the cosmos? Can theology provide
complementary, not contradictory, clarifications? It is
precisely in this context that the Bahá’í belief in the harmony of
science and religion seeks to unify scientific truth with
religious certainty to arrive at a more nuanced and
sophisticated resolution to some of these as-yet unsolved
mysteries. Let us consider ‘Abdul-Bahá’s elucidations.
‘Abdul-Bahá on Human Evolution
‘Abdul-Bahá endorsed the concept of human evolution. He,
of course, spoke of intra-species refinement and growth, not
inter-species transmutation. (SAQ)30 Human evolution is not
only accepted but seen as necessary. The earth presents a
dynamic habitat, constantly prone to gradual or sudden

Man is Man
changes. To survive in frequently changing environments,
species must adapt and evolve. Moreover, for any species to
reach its full potential, it must go through various stages of
development and growth. At each stage, organisms evolve by
maturing physically, mentally, emotionally, socially, and so on.
To establish this point, ‘Abdul-Bahá cited the example of the
acorn. Its potential is to one day be an oak tree. It cannot take
on any other form of life. To reach its destiny, it must sprout,
be nourished and survive the hazards of growth to one day
reach its full form: an oak tree. In like manner, a human zygote
necessarily evolves to an embryo and later into a fetus until it
is born as a human child. Even after birth, humans evolve as
they pass through various phases of physical, mental and
spiritual growth. Consider the following passage which speaks
to the uniqueness of the human life form:
But from the beginning of man’s existence he is a
distinct species. In the same way, the embryo of man in
the womb of the mother was at first in a strange form;
then this body passes from shape to shape, from state
to state, from form to form, until it appears in utmost
beauty and perfection. But even when in the womb of
the mother and in this strange form, entirely different
from his present form and figure, he is the embryo of
the superior species, and not of the animal; his species
and essence undergo no change. (SAQ)
According to ‘Abdul-Bahá, nothing in this world attains
perfection at once; evolution is a necessary condition for any
species to reach its pre-ordained destiny. He explained that
humanity and human civilization continually evolve. Culture,
industry and technology are ready testaments to human
evolution, refinement and growth. Yet, ‘Abdul-Bahá insisted
that man is a unique species and that the human essence is
unshared by any other life form. He affirmed that God’s
greatest gift to man is the intellect through which he can
understand and conquer nature, all other creatures being bereft
of this gift and thus captives of nature. He found the
suggestion that many life forms roamed the planet before
humans, the so-called pre-existence contention, as a weak and
unsustainable
argument
to
rationalize
or
prove
the
transmutation of the human life form from another species.
Consider the following passage that speaks to this point:
…the animal having preceded man is not a proof of the
evolution, change and alteration of the species, nor

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
that man was raised from the animal world to the
human world. For while the individual appearance of
these different beings is certain, it is possible that man
came into existence after the animal. So when we
examine the vegetable kingdom, we see that the fruits of
the different trees do not arrive at maturity at one
time; on the contrary, some come first and others
afterward. This priority does not prove that the later
fruit of one tree was produced from the earlier fruit of
another tree. (SAQ)
In recent times, scientists have shown that certain animals
posses the rudiments of intelligence such as the acquisition and
use of language or equivalent modes of communication, the
development and application of tools, the establishment of
social order and so on. Nonetheless the human intellect is, by
orders of magnitude, greater than all other animals. Dividing
the world of creation into the realms of the human, the animal,
the vegetable and the mineral, ‘Abdul-Bahá stated that humans
embody the combined attributes of animals, vegetables and
minerals. Still, while all created beings may be endowed with
spirit only humans possess the rational spirit, or soul. Human
intellect is an emanation of the soul and scientific
accomplishments are outcomes of the human intellect. Praising
science as “most noble and praiseworthy,” ‘Abdul-Bahá
affirmed that of all creation only humans could master nature
through science. Consider the following passage which
illuminates man’s primacy over nature:
All creation, preceding Man, is bound by the stern law
of Nature. The great sun, the multitudes of stars, the
oceans and seas, the mountains, the rivers, the trees,
and all animals, great or small — none is able to evade
obedience to nature’s law. (SAQ)
He asserted that man was the sum of all perfections and that
“… in him there is an ideal power surpassing nature.” (SAQ)
Thus, humankind is elevated above all other creation. To
further differentiate between humans and other living
organisms, ‘Abdul-Bahá envisioned two distinct pathways for
existence: material and spiritual. The former He termed as the
realm of the animal, devoid of intelligence and incapable of
knowing God, while the latter He deemed as destined for
mankind, a source of ethics and enlightenment and capable of
bestowing the knowledge of God. (SAQ) In treading the
spiritual path and perfecting his nature, mankind can

Man is Man
approach God by exhibiting divine attributes such as justice,
mercy, love, truthfulness and kindness. But when the
development
of
his
spiritual
nature
is
neglected
or
subordinated to the pursuit of material progress, he is apt to
plunge into waywardness. ‘Abdul-Bahá cautioned against the
prevailing impulse in society of denying the inner spiritual
powers innate in human beings. This tendency, He lamented,
would lead mankind to dismiss his destiny and to consent to
the realm of the animal, thereby becoming a captive of nature.
Consider the following passage:
One of the strangest things witnessed is that the mater-
ialists of today are proud of their natural instincts and
bondage. They state that nothing is entitled to belief
and acceptance except that which is sensible or tangible.
By their own statements they are captives of nature …
If this be a virtue, the animal has attained it to a
superlative degree, for the animal is absolutely ignorant
of the realm of spirit and out of touch with the inner
world of conscious realization. The animal would agree
with the materialist in denying the existence of that
which transcends the senses. If we admit that being
limited to the plane of the senses is a virtue, the animal
is indeed more virtuous than man, for it is entirely
bereft of that which lies beyond, absolutely oblivious
of the Kingdom of God and its traces, whereas God has
deposited within the human creature an illimitable
power by which he can rule the world of nature. (PUP)
For Bahá’ís, therefore, the development of mankind’s
material temperament must transpire in tandem with the
development of its spiritual disposition. This balance is crucial
as it alone can facilitate the realization of man’s true potential
and the fulfillment of his purpose for being created.
Addressing the inevitable question that arises from a
consideration of creationism, ‘Abdul-Bahá deduced that a
creator without a creation was impossible. He argued that
since the universe was created, there therefore had to be a
creator. He further argued that the order inherent in the
universe was neither accidental nor necessary. Rather, it was
voluntary and willful. He explains:
The first thing to emanate from God is that universal
reality which the philosophers of the past termed the
First Intellect, and which the people of Bahá call the
Primal Will. (SAQ)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
‘Abdul-Bahá unambiguously held that a transcendent creator
willed the universe and all of creation into being. He explained
that the universe was, and will ever be, governed by eternal laws
bequeathed by God. In sharp contrast to Darwinian
evolutionary thought, ‘Abdul-Bahá taught that the human life
form was original and unique, that it had a pre-ordained
purpose and that it was not a mere outcome of accident or
chance. Since the universe was created by a perfect creator,
creation itself had to be perfect and complete. As mentioned
earlier,
‘Abdul-Bahá
upheld
intra-species
evolution
as
incontrovertible and necessary for the human species to achieve
its pre-ordained destiny. This passage sums up his vision on the
origin and form of human beings:
To recapitulate: as man in the womb of the mother
passes from form to form, from shape to shape,
changes and develops, and is still the human species
from the beginning of the embryonic period—in the
same way man, from the beginning of his existence in
the matrix of the world, is also a distinct species—that
is, man—and has gradually evolved from one form to
another. Therefore, this change of appearance, this
evolution of members, this development and growth,
even though we admit the reality of growth and
progress, does not prevent the species from being
original. Man from the beginning was in this perfect
form and composition, and possessed capacity and
aptitude
for
acquiring
material
and
spiritual
perfections, … He has only become more pleasing, more
beautiful and more graceful. Civilization has brought
him out of his wild state, just as the wild fruits which
are cultivated by a gardener become finer, sweeter and
acquire more freshness and delicacy. (SAQ)
Conclusion
The Bahá’í principle of the harmony of science and religion
intends to find common ground between the domains of
science and religion. Bahá’í teachings hold that human beings
belong to a pre-ordained, unique life form that trumps all
others and which interacts with an organic universe in
accordance with a divine plan. Evolution is not only accepted
but seen as a necessity for humans and other species to reach
their full and destined potential. Human evolution is within
the species, however, and does not derive from or span to other

Man is Man
forms of life. ‘Abdul-Bahá maintained that the notions of
creation and evolution were complementary, not mutually
exclusive. This belief lies at the root of the Bahá’í principle of
the harmony of science and religion.
It should be noted that ‘Abdul-Bahá’s teachings were
tendered as philosophical viewpoints and not as scientific
verities.31 Thus, they cannot be evaluated with the prevailing
standards of science. His teachings and explanations, perhaps,
can be best understood and internalized as articles of faith.
Since faith requires the suspension of disbelief and the
unquestioned
acceptance
of
scientifically
improvable
metaphysical abstractions such as a transcendent divinity or
the human soul, these concepts will continue to remain chasms
to bridge for most scientifically trained minds. The religious
teaching that man is more than a mere physical being, that he is
essentially spiritual in nature, does not permit the unequivocal
acceptance of Darwinian evolutionary hypotheses as they are
understood today. The implications of an ad-hoc universe
without a creator and a divine plan that animates and gives
purpose to life are untenable to most people of faith, Bahá’ís
included. So, how can science and spirituality truly be
reconciled? Is it possible in the absence of faith and reason?
Many such questions are yet to be assuaged and although we
may not have satisfactory answers to these queries, one thing
we do know: human evolution and the transmutation of species
will likely remain a hotly debated topic for some time to come.

NOTES
1 Smith, P. (2000), A Concise Encyclopedia of the Bahá’í Faith, Oxford,
Oneworld.
2 Hatcher, W. S. (1990), “Science and the Bahá’í Faith,” Logic and Logos,
Oxford, George Ronald.
3 For a cogent history of the Bahá’í religion and its leadership succession
see Smith, P. (1987), The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, Cambridge,
University Press.
4 For a recent essay on this topic, see Cohen, E. (2006), “The Ends of
Science,” First Things: A Monthly Journal of Religion & Public Life,
167:27-33. See also Dawkins, R. (2006), The God Delusion, New York,
Houghton Mifflin.
5 Bahá’u’lláh (1994), The Hidden Words, Victoria, Century Press. For an
annotated scholarly treatment in Persian, see Nafahát-i-Fadl, Number
4, Institute for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, Dundas, 1994.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten

6 National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine (2008), Science,
Evolution and Creationism, National Academies Press. For more on the
philosophy of creationism, see plato.stanford.edu/entries/creationism.
7 Angier, N. (2007), The Canon: A Whirligig Tour of the Beautiful Basics of
Science, New York, Houghton Mifflin.
8 Appleman, P., ed. (1979), Darwin, New York, W. W. Norton & Company.
9 Russell, B. (2007), A History of Western Philosophy, NY, Simon & Schuster.
10 Appleman, Darwin, op. cit.
11 See evolution.berkeley.edu/ for a scholarly collection of essays and
explanations on Darwinian evolutionary theories. I am indebted to Dr.
David Zamora for providing this reference.
12 Dawkins, R. (2006), The Selfish Gene, Oxford, University Press.
13 Appleman, Darwin, op. cit.
14 ibid.
15 Hawking, S. (1998), A Brief History of Time, New York, Bantam Books.
16 Russell, History, op. cit.
17 ibid.
18 Hawking, Brief History, op. cit.
19 Russell, History, op. cit.
20 ibid.
21 Hawking, Brief History, op. cit.
22 ibid.
23 ibid.
24 ibid.
25 Dawkins, God Delusion, op. cit.
26 ibid.
27 Collins, F. (2006), The Language of God, New York, Free Press.
28 For protein evolution, see www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/departments/1-
protein-evolution/protein-evolution. I am indebted to Dr. David
Zamora for providing this reference.
29 Collins, Language, op. cit.
30 For a scholarly treatment of ‘Abdul-Bahá explanations on this topic, see
Brown, K., ed. (2001), Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, Los Angeles,
Kalimát Press. For a shorter essay on the mutation of species and
Bahá’í beliefs see Nadimi, B. (n.d.), “Do the Bahá’í Writings on
evolution allow for mutation of species within kingdoms but not
across
kingdoms?”
available
at
bahai-
library.com/?file=nadimi_evolution_within_kingdoms
31 Brown, K. ed., Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, op. cit.

Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in
Some Answered Questions in the light of Bahá’í
Scriptures
Julio Savi
In Some Answered Questions, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá illustrates a
number of criteria and qualities of the seekers of Reality. He
mentions the senses, the method of reason or intellect, the text
of the Holy Writings and the bounty of the Holy Spirit. He
emphasizes the fallacy of the first three criteria and the
foremost importance of the last one. A combined and balanced
use of the senses, the method of reason and the text of the Holy
Writings undoubtedly brings the seeker closer to Reality, but
only the bounty of the Holy Spirit bestows enlightenment and
certitude upon her. If the seeker wants to obtain the bounty of
the Holy Spirit, she should realize a number of indispensable
qualities and conditions. The enlightenment and certitude
bestowed by the Holy Spirit are necessary so that any good
action performed by the seeker may be conducive to her true
salvation and prosperity.
Such is the importance ascribed to search after and
knowledge of Reality in the Bahá’í teachings that they are
described as the purpose of human life in the short Obligatory
Prayer. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says in Some Answered Questions (76-7,
ch.14, para.9):
the people of knowledge are lovers of the sun … The
people of perception are the seekers of the truth … man
must be the seeker after the Reality… He must be
fascinated and enraptured, and attracted to the divine
bounty; he must be like the butterfly who is the lover of
the light … and like the nightingale who is the lover of
the rose …
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes in the same book ‘four accepted
methods of comprehension (mízán-i-idrák)’: ‘[1] the senses
(˙iss) … [2] the method of reason (‘aql)… of the understanding
(idrák) … [3] tradition (naql) — that is, … the text of the Holy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Scriptures (nußúß-i-kitáb-i-muqaddasih) … [4] the bounty of the
Holy Spirit (fay∂-i-Rúhu’l-Quds)’ (297-9, ch.83, paras.2, 3, 4
and 5, M207-8). He also explains these four methods in other
circumstances. In His Tablet to Dr. Forel He mentions the
‘reasoning
power
(qavá’id-i-’aqlíyyih)’,
‘observation
(naΩaríyyih)’, (man†iqíyyih, dialectic, not translated) the
‘intuitive faculties (†ulú’át-i-fikríyyih, lit. revelations of the
thought) and the revealing power of … faith (iktisháfát-i-
vijdáníyyih, lit. the discoveries of the soul)’ (Bahá’í World
15:37-43, Makátíb 1:259). In His talk delivered at Hotel Ansonia
in New York on 17 April 1912,1 He mentions ‘first, sense
perception;
second,
reason;
third,
traditions;
fourth,
inspiration’. In another talk delivered at the Eireinion in Green
Acre Eliot (Maine) in 16 August 1912,2 He says: ‘Proofs are of
four kinds: first, through sense perception; second, through the
reasoning faculty; third, from traditional or scriptural
authority; fourth, through the medium of inspiration. That is
to say, there are four criteria or standards of judgment by
which the human mind reaches its conclusions’ (253). Also
Isabel Fraser Chamberlain records a talk where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
mentions ‘four means of knowledge’ (ADP 88): ‘the senses,
principally through observation … logic … the text …
inspiration’ (ibid.). Finally, in a talk delivered at Open Forum,
or Materialists Club, in San Francisco (California) on 10
October 1912,3 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions only ‘the senses (˙iss)’
and ‘the intellect (‘aql)’ (356, K601).
If one reflects on these various sources, one may obtain a
quite coherent concept. Human knowledge depends on four
instruments: sense perception, intellect or reason, the Holy
Writings and insight or inspiration. Each of these four
instruments is fallible in itself. Each of them may be refined
and supported through another one. The mistakes of the senses
may be rectified through intellect; the mistakes of intellect may
be rectified through one’s study of the Holy Writings, ‘the
Unerring Balance established amongst men’ (Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-
i-Aqdas 13, para.99), ‘the science of the love of God’
(Bahá’u’lláh, Four Valleys 52); human mistakes in one’s
interpretation of the Holy Writings may be rectified through a
proper use of insight or the ‘inner eye’ (Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-
Iqan 197, para.217); the mistakes of the ‘inner eye’ and any
other one may be corrected through ‘the spirit of faith’
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 144, sec.36, para.4).
A balanced and co-ordinated use of all the four instruments
draws the seeker closer to reality. However, what enables her to

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 
certitude is only the bounty of the Holy Spirit, that draws her
closer and closer to Reality, and finally to enlightenment and
certitude.
Sense Perception
The senses are fallacious, but the intellect may rectify their
mistakes. Sight tells us that the earth is flat, but a rational
observation of the universe has enabled scientists to discover
that the earth is round. The senses enable us to perceive only
material or outer reality, but our insight, properly refined
through our study of the Holy Writings, prayer, meditation
and the practice of good deeds, enables our senses to ‘discover
in whatever hath been created by Thee in the kingdoms of earth
and heaven nothing but Thy wondrous Beauty and the
revelation of the splendors of Thy face’ (Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers
and Meditations 337, sec. CLXXXIV, para.19). In this vein
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Every time I lift up mine eyes unto Thy heaven, I call to
mind Thy highness and Thy loftiness, and Thine
incomparable glory and greatness; and every time I
turn my gaze to Thine earth, I am made to recognize
the evidences of Thy power and the tokens of Thy
bounty. And when I behold the sea, I find that it
speaketh to me of Thy majesty, and of the potency of
Thy might, and of Thy sovereignty and Thy grandeur.
And at whatever time I contemplate the mountains, I
am led to discover the ensigns of Thy victory and the
standards of Thine omnipotence.
I swear by Thy might, O Thou in Whose grasp are the
reins of all mankind, and the destinies of the nations! I
am so inflamed by my love for Thee, and so inebriated
with the wine of Thy oneness, that I can hear from the
whisper of the winds the sound of Thy glorification
and praise, and can recognize in the murmur of the
waters the voice that proclaimeth Thy virtues and
Thine attributes, and can apprehend from the rustling
of the leaves the mysteries that have been irrevocably
ordained by Thee in Thy realm. (Prayers and Meditations
272, sec. CLXXVI, para.16)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Intellect and Logic
The modern Western world has full confidence in its
intellect and thinks that intellect is, together with the senses,
the supreme guarantor of human knowledge. A number of
statements in Some Answered Questions seemingly show that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had not the same confidence in human intellect as
modern Westerners. He recognizes that human intelligence and
thought, when properly trained,
may attain complete development, so that knowledge
and science may increase, and the reality of things, the
mysteries of beings and the properties of existence may
be discovered; that, day by day, instructions,
inventions and institutions may be improved; and
from things perceptible to the senses conclusions as to
intellectual things may be deduced. (SAQ 9, ch.3, para.9)
However, seemingly interpreting Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that
‘the highest thought of men, however deep their contemplation,
can never hope to outsoar the limitations imposed upon Thy
creation, nor ascend beyond the state of the contingent world’
(Prayers and Meditations 327, sec. CLXXXIV, para.6),
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that intellect by itself cannot understand
metaphysical verities. He says that intellect ‘must depend on
the help of the spiritual and divine power to be able to
undertake this mission’ (SAQ 9, ch.3, para.11), ‘so that
intelligence and comprehension may penetrate the metaphysical
world, and may receive benefit from the sanctifying breeze of
the Holy Spirit, and may enter into relationship with the
Supreme Concourse. (SAQ 9, ch.3, para.10)’. In the same vein
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also states that
This spirit, which in the terminology of the
philosophers is the rational soul (nafs-i-ná†iqih),
embraces all beings, and as far as human ability
permits discovers the realities of things and becomes
cognizant of their peculiarities and effects, and of the
qualities and properties of beings. But the human
spirit, unless assisted by the spirit of faith (rú˙-i-
ímání), does not become acquainted with the divine
secrets and the heavenly realities. It is like a mirror
which, although clear, polished and brilliant, is still in
need of light. Until a ray of the sun reflects upon it, it
cannot discover the heavenly secrets. (SAQ 208-9, ch.55,
para.5, M148)

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 
Only in this condition our intellect can reach its highest
expression, which Bahá’u’lláh describes as follows:
Having recognized thy powerlessness to attain to an
adequate understanding of that Reality which abideth
within thee, thou wilt readily admit the futility of such
efforts as may be attempted by thee, or by any of the
created things, to fathom the mystery of the Living
God, the Day Star of unfading glory, the Ancient of
everlasting days. This confession of helplessness which
mature contemplation must eventually impel every
mind to make is in itself the acme of human
understanding, and marketh the culmination of man’s
development. (GWB 165-6, sec.83, para.4)
In summary, concerning spiritual knowledge, our intellect is
inferior to the inner perception acquired through the bounty of
the Spirit of Faith and of the Holy Spirit. In this vein ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says:
These obvious arguments (adillah) are adduced for weak
(∂á’ífih) souls; but if the inner perception (dídiy-i-
baßírat) be open, a hundred thousand clear proofs
become visible. Thus, when man feels the indwelling
spirit (i˙sás-i-rú˙-i-dashtih bashad), he is in no need of
arguments for its existence; but for those who are
deprived of the bounty of the spirit (fay∂-i-rú˙), it is
necessary to establish external arguments (dalá’il-i-
khárjih) (SAQ 6, ch.2, para.11, M5)
The Holy Writings
Infallible in themselves, the Holy Writings become fallible
whenever they are analyzed by a weak human intellect, which
may introduce every kind of mistakes in them. Also in this case
human intellect may be assisted through the inspiration of the
spiritual powers. Bahá’u’lláh explains:
Know thou that the passages that We have called
‘ambiguous (mutishábihát)’ appear as such only in the
eyes of them that have failed to soar above the horizon
of guidance and to reach the heights of knowledge in
the retreats of grace. For otherwise, unto them that
have recognized the Repositories of divine Revelation
and beheld through His inspiration (fí má ilqá alláh ‘ala
anfusahum, lit. in that which God hath handed down

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
unto them) the mysteries of divine authority, all the
verses of God are perspicuous and all His allusions are
clear. Such men discern the inner mysteries that have
been clothed in the garment of words as clearly as ye
perceive the heat of the sun or the wetness of water, nay
even more distinctly. Immeasurably exalted is God
above our praise of His loved ones, and beyond their
praise of Him! (GDM 26-7, para.34)
Insight or Inspiration
A master in its use of intellect, Western man is suspicious
of insight. And in many ways he is not wrong. Inspiration has
been described as: ‘A special immediate action or influence of
the Spirit of God … upon the human mind or soul’ (Oxford
7:1036). It also has been defined (Battaglia 8:593) as:
A sudden enlightenment of the spirit, which appears as
a guidance for one’s behavior emerging from unknown
depths of one’s personality and coordinating past and
future experience through intuitive ways … Influence
exerted by God upon a person, who is enlightened in his
mind, spurred in his will, directed and sustained in his
action, for the attainment of a supernatural goal … an
impulsion (considered of divine origin or arising from
a mysterious force or an inner wealth) which … leads a
person, in a sort of enrapture or creative ecstasy, to
translate circumstances, impressions, feelings, etc.
into works of art.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said to Mrs Parson on 28 April 1912:4
‘This material world has an outer appearance. It has
also a hidden aspect. All created things are interlinked
in a chain leading to spirituality ‘[the unseen’, in Star
of the West] and ultimately ending in abstract
[‘spiritual’ in Star of the West] realities. I hope that
these spiritual links will become stronger day by day
and that this communication of hearts, which is
termed
inspiration,
will
continue.
When
this
connection exists, bodily separation is not important;
this condition is beyond the world of words and above
all description’. (qtd. in Mahmud’s Diary 66)
He explains elsewhere that ‘inspiration’ is the ‘influx’
(Promulgation 22) or ‘the promptings or susceptibilities of the

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 
human heart’ (ibid. 254). He adds that the human heart may be
influenced both by ‘satanic’ and ‘divine promptings.’ The
former, which He also calls ‘imagination’ (ibid. 251), come
from our lower self. The latter ones are a ‘prompting of the
heart through the merciful assistance’ (Promulgation 254).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also says that imagination ‘can only picture that
which it is able to create’ (Paris Talks 11, ch.5, para.6), that it
is ‘accidental (or non-essential)’ (Tablets 3:562), limited and
often at odds with reality. Therefore He seemingly uses the term
‘imagination’ as ‘a creative power of the mind that conceives
dreams, illusions, abstractions, fictitious and bizarre forms,
activities of idle thinking, of conjecturing’ (Battaglia 7:342).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that we can differentiate between
‘inspiration’ and ‘imagination’, because ‘inspiration is in
conformity with the Divine Texts, but imaginations do not
conform therewith’ (Tablets 1:195). Another difference is that
the ideas
which owe their source to the Light of Truth will be
realized in the outward world; while others of a
different origin vanish, come and go like waves on the
sea of imagination and find no realization in the world
of existence. (Tablets 2:301)
As to the difference between inspiration and
imagination … A real, spiritual connection between the
True One and the servant is a luminous bounty which
causeth an ecstatic (or divine) flame, passion and
attraction. When this connection is secured (or
realized) such an ecstasy and happiness become
manifest in the heart that man doth fly away (with joy)
and uttereth melody and song. Just as the soul bringeth
the body in motion, so that spiritual bounty and real
connection likewise moveth (or cheereth) the human
soul. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets 1:195)
In other words, ‘The spirit has great perception without the
intermediary of any of the five senses, such as the eyes or ears’
(SAQ 252, ch.71, para.7). However,
The mind and the thought of man sometimes discover
truths, and from this thought and discovery signs and
results are produced. This thought has a foundation.
But many things come to the mind of man which are
like the waves of the sea of imaginations; they have no

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
fruit, and no result comes from them. (SAQ 253, ch.71,
para.9)
In this context, we could say that ideas conceived under the
impulse of imagination do not give fruits, that is, they do not
produce fruits of unity, harmony and peace.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that inspiration may be received through
‘Obligatory Prayer’ (in The Importance of Obligatory Prayer
and Fasting, no. XXI) and ‘during meditation’ (Paris Talks 187,
ch.54, para.11). He writes in this regard:
I ask God that He may open the gate of the knowledge
of this station to thine heart so that thou mayest
apprehend whatever is necessary and proper, garner
spiritual bounties from the heaven of the All-Merciful,
obtain the effulgences of knowledge from the Sun of
Reality, and become a manifestation of inspiration
from the Unseen and a source of glad-tidings from the
All-Merciful. (in The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and
Fasting, no. XXI)
He also writes: ‘when the heart becometh confident, the
imagination of Satan and evil vanisheth away. If the heart
becometh absolutely tranquil, suspicion and imagination will
entirely pass away’ (Tablets 1:104). He explains this concept in
details (Tablets 3:706):
if thy mind become empty and pure from every
mention and thought and thy heart attracted wholly to
the Kingdom of God, forget all else besides God and
come in communion with the Spirit of God, then the
Holy Spirit will assist thee with a power which will
enable thee to penetrate all things, and a Dazzling Spark
which enlightens all sides, a Brilliant Flame in the zenith
of the heavens, will teach thee that which thou dost not
know of the facts of the universe and of the divine
doctrine.
He also says in an address He delivered to the Paris
Theosophical Society, at the Theosophical Headquarters, 59
Avenue de la Bourdonnois, on 13 February 1913:
… the spirit of life is omnipotent, especially when it
establishes a communication with God and becomes
the recipient of the eternal light—then it transforms
itself into a ray of the effulgence of the eternal sun.

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 
This station is the greatest of all stations, for this
connection of the spirit of man with God is like unto a
mirror and the sun of reality is reflected in it. Thus it
becomes the collective centre of all the virtues; its
emanation is the bestowal of the king of bestowers; its
radiations are the manifold splendours of the infinite
luminary; its sanctity is from the highest summit of
divine essence. This station is the station of heavenly
inspiration and is called the station of the divine grace.
It signifies that the rays of the sun of reality are
resplendent in the mirror and the attributes of the sun
of reality are reflected therein. This is the ultimate
degree of human perfection, for the attainment of
which the thinkers and philosophers of all time have
longed and poets have dreamed; it is the mystery of
mysteries and the light of lights wherein the spirit
become eternal, self-subsistent, age-abiding. (ADP 161-2)
And finally He describes (Tablets 1:195) the condition of a
person who receives inspiration from the Holy Spirit:
A real, spiritual connection between the True One and
the servant is a luminous bounty which causeth an
ecstatic … flame, passion and attraction. When this
connection is secured … such an ecstasy and happiness
become manifest in the heart that man doth fly away
(with joy) and uttereth melody and song. Just as the
soul bringeth the body in motion, so that spiritual
bounty and real connection likewise moveth (or
cheereth) the human soul.
Shoghi Effendi explains, in a letter written on his behalf on
25 January 1943, that inspiration ‘can be received through
meditation’ and that ‘God can inspire into our minds things
that we had no previous knowledge of, if He desires to do so’
(in Compilation 2:241, no.1771). He also makes clear, in a letter
written on his behalf on 19 November 1945, that ‘we cannot say
that any inspiration which a person, not knowing Bahá’u’lláh,
or not believing in God, receives is merely from his own ego’ (in
Compilation 2: 241, no.1774).
A key to a better understanding of the guidance given by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá as to inspiration may be found in the following
Tablet (Tablets 3:669):
Know, that the pure hearts upon which the mysteries of
the Kingdom of God are printed and pictured, are

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
reflections one upon another and thus the one can
discover the secrets of the other, because such hearts
are only mirrors confronting each other on which the
secrets of unity, affinity and concord are printed and
reflected. Accordingly, it would be possible that a
certain servant of the servants of the Merciful might
discover a treasured mystery or a preserved sign,
whatever his shortcomings or defects might be; yet we
do indeed rely upon God the Forgiver. I supplicate Him
to deliver us from the pangs of lust and its dangers and
from the destructive conditions of passion.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses in this Tablet the versatile metaphor of
light and mirrors. He describes human hearts as mirrors
capable of reflecting ‘the mysteries of the Kingdom of God’
(ibid.) and light may be reflected from a heart to another one.
Although, ‘it would be possible that a certain servant of the
servants of the Merciful might discover a treasured mystery or
a preserved sign, whatever his shortcomings or defects might
be’ (ibid.), however, the light’s ‘appearance in every mirror is
conditioned by the colour of that mirror’ (CC 3:19, no. 22). And
thus it is better for a seeker trying to be delivered ‘from the
pangs of lust and its dangers and from the destructive
conditions of passion’ (TAB 3:669). Then his heart will be ‘moved
by the fragrance of the love of God’, and his ‘memory’ will be ‘a
fountain overflowing with the water of the knowledge of God’,
and he will be able to express ideas whereby ‘the breast of the
believers may be refreshed and dilated with joy’ (ibid.). In other
words, the seeker’s struggle toward spiritual perfection is the
soundest guarantee that his words and actions may be inspired
and thus capable of inspiring her fellow-beings with noble ideas
and feelings. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote in a Tablet to Y. Dawud:
‘O God quicken me with the breaths of the Holy Spirit.’
For that which contains the fulfilment of all human
inspiration, for that which we supplicate in words is
the breath of the Holy Spirit. Verily, it changeth the
earthly man into a heavenly one, the materialist into a
spiritual being, the unenlightened into a reflection of
the divine, and the satanic man into a godly person. It
maketh the blind to see and quickeneth the dead. (quoted
in Rabb 100)
A seeker is inspired mainly whenever she relies on the
guidance vouchsafed by the Manifestation of God:

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 
Man is said to be the greatest representative of God,
and he is the Book of Creation because all the mysteries
of beings exist in him. If he comes under the shadow of
the True Educator and is rightly trained, he becomes
the essence of essences, the light of lights, the spirit of
spirits;
he
becomes
the
center
of
the
divine
appearances, the source of spiritual qualities, the
rising-place of heavenly lights, and the receptacle of
divine inspirations (ilhámát). If he is deprived of this
education, he becomes the manifestation of satanic
qualities, the sum of animal vices, and the source of all
dark conditions. (SAQ 236, ch.64, para.4)
Attaining the Bounty of the Holy Spirit
Since the only way to attain certitude is through the bounty
of the Holy Spirit, it is very important for a seeker to know
how to attain it. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions in Some Answered
Questions ‘the state in which one should be to seriously search
for the truth … the condition of seeking’ (38, ch.10, paras.11,
12).
… the seeker must be endowed with certain qualities.
First of all, he must be just and severed from all else
save God; his heart must be entirely turned to the
supreme horizon; he must be free from the bondage of
self and passion, for all these are obstacles.
Furthermore, he must be able to endure all hardships.
He must be absolutely pure and sanctified, and free
from the love or the hatred of the inhabitants of the
world. Why? because the fact of his love for any person
or thing might prevent him from recognizing the truth
in another, and, in the same way, hatred for anything
might be a hindrance in discerning truth.
His words are quite concise, however they are supported by
many explanations of this issue given in the Bahá’í Writings.
This literature include in the first place the five paragraphs in
the Kitáb-i-ˆqán improperly known as ‘Tablet of the True
Seeker’ (KI 192-8, paras.213-18; KMI 148-53), in the second
place the Valley of Search in the Seven Valleys, in the third place
the passages in Gems of Divine Mysteries where the Garden of
Search is described, and also the Law˙-i-A˙mad bih Fársí, a
Tablet written in Adrianople describing ‘the path of faith and
belief’ (Taherzadeh, Revelation 2:137-8). This Tablet is almost

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
completely translated into English by Shoghi Effendi in
Gleanings (322-9, nos. CLII and CLIII; see Muntakhabátí 207-
11). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá dwelt on the same subject in His talk
delivered on 26 May 1912 at Mount Morris Baptist Church,
Fifth Avenue and 126th Street, New York, published in English
in Promulgation 147-50 on notes taken by Esther Foster and in
Persian in Khá†ábát 394-400:
Behold how the sun shines upon all creation, but only
surfaces that are pure and polished can reflect its glory
and light. The darkened soul has no portion of the
revelation of the glorious effulgence of reality; and the
soil of self, unable to take advantage of that light, does
not produce growth … Therefore, man must seek
capacity (isti’dád) and develop readiness (qábilíyyat).
As long as he lacks susceptibility (isti’dád va qábilíyyat)
to divine influences, he is incapable of reflecting the
light and assimilating its benefits … We must make the
soil of our hearts receptive and fertile by tilling in
order that the rain of divine mercy may refresh them
and bring forth roses and hyacinths of heavenly
planting. We must have perceiving eyes (chasm-i-bíná)
in order to see the light of the sun … (PUP 148-9, Khá†ábát
397-8)
This ‘capacity’ or ‘readiness’ can be attained in several ways.
Some individuals derive ‘infinite significance and wisdom
from the Book of Divine Revelation (kitáb-i-va˙íyy-i-iláhí), and
… draw inspiration (ilhám) from the unseen world of God
(ghaybí-i-rabbání)’, (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret 58, Risálih 68). Other
make ‘mention of the name of … [their] Lord’ and ‘the hosts of
Divine inspiration …descend upon … [them] from the heaven of
… [His] name, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise’ (Bahá’u’lláh,
Gleanings 280 sec.129, para.3). Still others ‘for the sake of God,
arise to serve His Cause’ and thus become ‘the recipients of
divine inspiration from the unseen Kingdom’ (Bahá’u’lláh,
‘Bishárát’ 27, ‘Ishráqát’ 129).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes such a ‘ready’ soul as follows:
This is what is meant by the Qur’ánic verse: ‘… whose
oil would well nigh shine out, even though fire touched
it not! It is light upon light’. That is, this oil is so fully
prepared, so ready to be lit, that it almost catches fire
of itself, though no flame be at hand; which means that
the capacity for faith, and the deserving it, can be so

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 
great, that without the communication of a single
word the light shines forth. (MF 77)
The result of this kind of search and effort made according to
this guidance and blessed by the bounty of the Holy Spirit is
described as
gain[ing] a true knowledge of your own selves — a
knowledge which is the same as the comprehension of
Mine own Being. Ye would find yourselves independent
of all else but Me, and would perceive, with your inner
and outer eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My
effulgent Name, the seas of My loving-kindness and
bounty moving within you. (GWB 326, CLIII, para.6)
Enlightenment and Certitude
Having obtained the bounty of the Holy Spirit, a seeker will
be able to attain enlightenment and certitude. Certitude is a
kind of knowledge quite different from the ‘assured’
knowledge, pursued by the Western man, relying on his senses,
his intellect, sometimes his insight, without striving to attain
the bounty of the Holy Spirit. This kind of knowledge,
described enlightenment and certitude, is the discovery of the
image of God in oneself, a discovery that becomes manifest as
the capacity of expressing the Names of God, in the form of
thoughts, feelings, words and actions.
Enlightenment and Certitude and Fulfilling the
Purpose of One’s Life
Attaining enlightenment and certitude is a fundamental
prerequisite in view of fulfilling the purpose of one’s life and of
becoming an efficient servant of the Cause of God. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains the first verse of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas as follows:
good actions alone, without the knowledge of God,
cannot be the cause of eternal salvation, everlasting
success, and prosperity, and entrance into the
Kingdom of God. (SAQ 238, ch.65, para.4)
He also says:
if to the knowledge of God is joined the love of God,
and attraction, ecstasy and goodwill, a righteous
action is then perfect and complete. Otherwise, though

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
a good action is praiseworthy, yet if it is not sustained
by the knowledge of God, the love of God, and a sincere
intention, it is imperfect. (SAQ 302, ch.84, para.7)
We may conclude that the entire course of our life should be
an unrelenting search after such conditions as will make us
ready to receive, through a correct use of the four instruments
of knowledge as well as of our willpower, the bounties of the
Holy Spirit so that we may fulfill the purpose of our lives.

REFERENCES
As to the Bibliography, many quotations are from books mentioned in
Lights of Irfán 8:413-4. Books mentioned, but not in that volume, are
listed below.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
———. Majmú’iy-i-Kha†ábát-i-  a∂rat-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá. Langenhain: Bahá’í-
Verlag, 1984.
———. An-Núru’l-Abhá fí Mufáva∂át-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá. New Delhi: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.
———. Memorials of the Faithful. Translated by Marzieh Gail. Wilmette,
Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
———. Risáliy-i-Madaníyyih. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Hofheim:
Bahá’í Verlag, 1984 / 141.
Bahá’u’lláh
———. ‘Bishárát (Glad-Tidings)’, in Tablets, pp.21-9.
———. Gems of Divine Mysteries. Javáhiru’l-Asrár. Haifa: Haifa Bahá’í
World Centre, 2002.
———. ‘Ishráqát (Splendours)’, in Tablets, pp.101-35.
———. Kitáb-i-Musta†áb-i-ˆqán. Reprinted from the original edition,
Egypt, 1934. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
———.
Muntakhabátí
az
Áthár-i-H&ad&rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh.
Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1984.
Battaglia, Salvatore. Grande Dizionario della Lingua Italiana. 20 vols.
Turin: UTET, 1961-2004.
The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting. Selection of Extracts
and Prayers from the Bahá’í Writings Compiled by the Research
Department
of
the
Universal
House
of
Justice.
At
bahai-
library.com/compilations/obligatory.prayer.html.
Mahmud’s Diary: The Diary of Mírzá Mahmúd-i-Zarqání. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1998.

Methods and Qualities of the Seekers of Reality 

The Oxford English Dictionary, ed. John A. Simpson e Edmund S.C.
Weiner, 2d ed. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989.
Rabb, Mary M. “The Divine Art of Living. A Compilation,” Star of the
West 7:16 (December. 31, 1916) — 8:13 (November 4, 1917).
Star of the West. The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world,
published from 1910 to April 1924. Reprint. Oxford: George Ronald,
1978.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1974-1987.
NOTES
1 This talk was first published in Star of the West 3.10 (September 1912):10-
1 and later, with a few changes, in Promulgation 20-2, on notes taken
by Howard MacNutt.
2 This talk was first published in Star of the West 3.16 (December
1912):5-9 and later in Promulgation 253-61, on notes taken by Edna
McKinney from Amin Farid’s translation.
3 This talk was published in English in Promulgation 355-61, on notes
taken by Bijou Straun, and in Persian in Khatábát 600-10. See also Star
of the West 5.3 (April 1914):42.
4 These words are also quoted in ‘Communication and Divine Inspiration’,
in Star of the West 14.7 (October 1923):209.

Elucidations
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice*
The Universal House of Justice
7 December 1969
To an individual Bahá’í
Dear Bahá’í friend,
Your recent letter, in which you share with us the questions
that have occurred to some of the youth in studying “The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh,” has been carefully considered,
and we feel that we should comment both on the particular
passage you mention and on a related passage in the same work,
because
both
bear
on
the
relationship
between
the
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice.
The first passage concerns the Guardian’s duty to insist
upon a reconsideration by his fellow members in the Universal
House of Justice of any enactment which he believes conflicts
with the meaning and departs from the spirit of the Sacred
Writings. The second passage concerns the infallibility of the
Universal House of Justice without the Guardian, namely
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that “Without such an institution
[the Guardianship] … the necessary guidance to define the
sphere of the legislative action of its elected representatives
would be totally withdrawn.” (WOB, p. 148)
Some of the youth, you indicate, were puzzled as to how to
reconcile the former of these two passages with such statements
as that in the Will of ‘Abdu’l-Baha which affirms that the

* Published in Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963 to 1986.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Universal House of Justice is “freed from all error.” (WT, p. 14)
Seeking the Writings’ unity of meaning.
Just as the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Baha does not in
any way contradict the Kitáb-i-Aqdas but, in the Guardian’s
words, “confirms, supplements, and correlates the provisions
of the Aqdas,” so the writings of the Guardian contradict
neither the revealed Word nor the interpretations of the
Master. (WOB, p. 19) In attempting to understand the Writings,
therefore, one must first realize that there is and can be no real
contradiction in them, and in the light of this we can
confidently seek the unity of meaning which they contain.
The Guardian and the Universal House of Justice have
certain duties and functions in common; each also operates
within a separate and distinct sphere. As Shoghi Effendi
explained, “… it is made indubitably clear and evident that the
Guardian of the Faith has been made the Interpreter of the
Word and that the Universal House of Justice has been
invested with the function of legislating on matters not
expressly revealed in the teachings. The interpretation of the
Guardian, functioning within his own sphere, is as
authoritative and binding as the enactments of the
International House of Justice, whose exclusive right and
prerogative is to pronounce upon and deliver the final
judgement on such laws and ordinances as Bahá’u’lláh has not
expressly revealed.” He goes on to affirm, “Neither can, nor will
ever, infringe upon the sacred and prescribed domain of the
other. Neither will seek to curtail the specific and undoubted
authority with which both have been divinely invested.” It is
impossible to conceive that two centres of authority, which the
Master has stated “are both under the care and protection of
the Abha Beauty, under the shelter and unerring guidance of
His Holiness, the Exalted One, could conflict with one
another, because both are vehicles of the same Divine Guidance.
(WOB, pp. 149-50; WT, p. 11)
The Universal House of Justice, beyond its function as the
enactor of legislation, has been invested with the more general
functions of protecting and administering the Cause, solving
obscure questions and deciding upon matters that have caused
difference. Nowhere is it stated that the infallibility of the
Universal House of Justice is by virtue of the Guardian’s
membership or presence on that body. Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Baha in
His Will and Shoghi Effendi in his “Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh” have both explicitly stated that the elected

Elucidations
members of the Universal House of Justice in consultation are
recipients of unfailing Divine Guidance. Furthermore the
Guardian himself in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh asserted
that “It must be also clearly understood by every believer that
the institution of Guardianship does not under any
circumstances abrogate, or even in the slightest degree detract
from, the powers granted to the Universal House of Justice by
Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, and repeatedly and solemnly
confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Baha in His Will. It does not constitute
in any manner a contradiction to the Will and Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, nor does it nullify any of His revealed
instructions.” (WOB, p. 8)
While the specific responsibility of the Guardian is the
interpretation of the Word, he is also invested with all the
powers and prerogatives necessary to discharge his function as
Guardian of the Cause, its Head and supreme protector. He is,
furthermore, made the irremovable head and member for life of
the supreme legislative body of the Faith. It is as the head of the
Universal House of Justice, and as a member of that body, that
the Guardian takes part in the process of legislation. If the
following passage, which gave rise to your query, is considered
as referring to this last relationship, you will see that there is no
contradiction between it and the other texts: “Though the
Guardian of the Faith has been made the permanent head of so
august a body he can never, even temporarily, assume the right
of exclusive legislation. He cannot override the decision of the
majority of his fellow members, but is bound to insist upon a
reconsideration by them of any enactment he conscientiously
believes to conflict with the meaning and to depart from the
spirit of Bahá’u’lláh revealed utterances.” (WOB, p. 150)
Although the Guardian, in relation to his fellow members
within the Universal House of Justice, cannot override the
decision of the majority, it is inconceivable that the other
members would ignore any objection he raised in the course of
consultation or pass legislation contrary to what he expressed
as being in harmony with the spirit of the Cause. It is, after all,
the final act of judgement delivered by the Universal House of
Justice that is vouchsafed infallibility, not any views expressed
in the course of the process of enactment.
It can be seen, therefore, that there is no conflict between
the Master’s statements concerning the unfailing divine
guidance conferred upon the Universal House of Justice and
the above passage from “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
The Process of Legislation
It may help the friends to understand this relationship if
they are aware of some of the processes that the Universal
House of Justice follows when legislating. First, of course, it
observes the greatest care in studying the Sacred Texts and the
interpretations of the Guardian as well as considering the views
of all the members. After long consultation the process of
drafting a pronouncement is put into effect. During this
process the whole matter may well be reconsidered. As a result
of such reconsideration the final judgement may be
significantly different from the conclusion earlier favoured, or
possibly it may be decided not to legislate at all on that subject
at that time. One can understand how great would be the
attention paid to the views of the Guardian during the above
process were he alive.
The Universal House of Justice in the Absence of the
Guardian
In considering the second passage we must once more hold
fast to the principle that the teachings do not contradict
themselves.
Future Guardians are clearly envisaged and referred to in the
Writings, but there is nowhere any promise or guarantee that
the line of Guardians would endure forever; on the contrary
there are clear indications that the line could be broken. Yet, in
spite of this, there is a repeated insistence in the Writings on
the indestructibility of the Covenant and the immutability of
God’s Purpose for this Day.
One of the most striking passages which envisage the
possibility of such a break in the line of Guardians is in the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas itself: The endowments dedicated to charity
revert to God, the Revealer of Signs. No one has the right to lay
hold on them without leave from the Dawning-Place of
Revelation.* After Him the decision rests with the Aghsan
[Branches],† and after them with the House of Justice — should
it be established in the world by then — so that they may use

* “The Dawning-Place of Revelation’ is a reference to the Manifestation
of God; here, a specific reference to Bahá’u’lláh.
† Aghsan (Branches) denotes the sons and male descendants of Bahá’u’lláh.

Elucidations
these endowments for the benefit of the Sites exalted in this
Cause, and for that which they have been commanded by God,
the Almighty, the All-Powerful. Otherwise the endowments
should be referred to the people of Baha, who speak not without
His leave and who pass no judgement but in accordance with
that which God has ordained in this Tablet, they who are the
champions of victory betwixt heaven and earth, so that they
may spend them on that which has been decreed in the Holy
Book by God, the Mighty, the Bountiful. (See KA P42)
The passing of Shoghi Effendi in 1957 precipitated the very
situation provided for in this passage, in that the line of
Aghsan ended before the House of Justice had been elected.
Although, as is seen, the ending of the line of Aghsan at some
stage was provided for, we must never underestimate the
grievous loss that the Faith has suffered. God’s purpose for
mankind remains unchanged, however, and the mighty
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh remains impregnable. Has not
Bahá’u’lláh stated categorically, “The Hand of Omnipotence
hath established His Revelation upon an unassailable, an
enduring foundation.” (WOB, p. 109) While ‘Abdu’l-Baha
confirms: “Verily, God effecteth that which He pleaseth; naught
can annul His Covenant; naught can obstruct His favour nor
oppose His Cause!” “Everything is subject to corruption; but
the Covenant of thy Lord shall continue to pervade all regions.”
“The tests of every dispensation are in direct proportion to the
greatness of the Cause, and as heretofore such a manifest
Covenant, written by the Supreme Pen, hath not been entered
upon, the tests are proportionately severe. … These agitations
of the violators are no more than the foam of the ocean, … This
foam of the ocean shall not endure and shall soon disperse and
vanish, while the ocean of the Covenant shall eternally surge and
roar.” (TABA 2:598; Star of the West, IV:10, p. 170; SWAB, pp. 210-11)
And Shoghi Effendi has clearly stated: “The bedrock on which
this Administrative Order is founded is God’s immutable
Purpose for mankind in this day.” “… this priceless gem of
Divine Revelation, now still in its embryonic state, shall evolve
within the shell of His law, and shall forge ahead, undivided and
unimpaired, till it embraces the whole of mankind.” (WOB, p.
156, 23)
Two Authoritative Centres
In the Bahá’í Faith there are two authoritative centres
appointed to which the believers must turn, for in reality the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Interpreter of the Word is an extension of that centre which is
the Word itself. The Book is the record of the utterance of
Bahá’u’lláh, while the divinely inspired Interpreter is the living
Mouth of that Book — it is he and he alone who can
authoritatively state what the Book means. Thus one centre is
the Book with its Interpreter, and the other is the Universal
House of Justice guided by God to decide on whatever is not
explicitly revealed in the Book. This pattern of centres and their
relationships is apparent at every stage in the unfoldment of
the Cause. In the Kitáb-i- Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh tells the believers to
refer after His passing to the Book, and to “Him Whom God
hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root.”
(KA P121) In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (the Book of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant), He makes it clear that this reference is to ‘Abdu’l-
Baha. (TB, pp. 217-23) In the Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh also ordains the
institution of the Universal House of Justice, and confers
upon it the powers necessary for it to discharge its ordained
functions. The Master in His Will and Testament explicitly
institutes the Guardianship, which Shoghi Effendi states was
clearly anticipated in the verses of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, reaffirms
and elucidates the authority of the Universal House of Justice,
and refers the believers once again to the Book: “Unto the Most
Holy Book everyone must turn, and all that is not expressly
recorded therein must be referred to the Universal House of
Justice,” and at the very end of the Will He says: “All must seek
guidance and turn unto the Centre of the Cause and the House
of Justice. And he that turneth unto whatsoever else is indeed
in grievous error.” (WT, pp. 19, 26)
As the sphere of jurisdiction of the Universal House of
Justice in matters of legislation extends to whatever is not
explicitly revealed in the Sacred Text, it is clear that the Book
itself is the highest authority and delimits the sphere of action
of the House of Justice. Likewise, the Interpreter of the Book
must also have the authority to define the sphere of the
legislative action of the elected representatives of the Cause.
The writings of the Guardian and the advice given by him over
the thirty-six years of his Guardianship show the way in which
he exercised this function in relation to the Universal House of
Justice as well as to National and Local Spiritual Assemblies.
The fact that the Guardian has the authority to define the
sphere of the legislative action of the Universal House of
Justice does not carry with it the corollary that without such
guidance the Universal House of Justice might stray beyond the
limits of its proper authority; such a deduction would conflict

Elucidations
with all the other texts referring to its infallibility, and
specifically with the Guardian’s own clear assertion that the
Universal House of Justice never can or will infringe on the
sacred and prescribed domain of the Guardianship. It should
be remembered, however, that although National and Local
Spiritual Assemblies can receive divine guidance if they consult
in the manner and spirit described by ‘Abdu’l-Baha, they do
not share in the explicit guarantees of infallibility conferred
upon the Universal House of Justice. Any careful student of
the Cause can see with what care the Guardian, after the
passing of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, guided these elected representatives of
the believers in the painstaking erection of the Administrative
Order and in the formulation of Local and National Bahá’í
Constitutions.
We hope that these elucidations will assist the friends in
understanding these relationships more clearly, but we must all
remember, that we stand too close to the beginnings of the
System ordained by Bahá’u’lláh to be able fully to understand
its potentialities or the interrelationships of its component
parts. As Shoghi Effendi’s secretary wrote on his behalf to an
individual believer on 25 March 1930, “The contents of the Will
of the Master are far too much for the present generation to
comprehend. It needs at least a century of actual working
before the treasures of wisdom hidden in it can be revealed.”
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
The Universal House of Justice

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House
of Justice
‘Alí Nakhjávání
Preamble
When the beloved Guardian passed away on November 4,
1957, the news of his passing convulsed the entire Bahá’í World.
A second distress soon followed when the announcement was
made by the Hands of the Cause that Shoghi Effendi had left no
Will and Testament, had appointed no successor as Guardian
of the Faith, and that the Aghsán one and all had broken the
Covenant. The “first effect” of this realization, as indicated in
the message of the Hands of the Cause to the Bahá’í world, “was
to plunge” them “into the very abyss of despair” (MC 36). A
similar sense of dismay seized the entire Bahá’í World.
Soon after the Universal House of Justice was established it
sent a message (dated 6 October 1963) to the Bahá’í World. This
message states that the House of Justice “finds that there is no
way to appoint or to legislate to make it possible to appoint a
second Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi” (MUHJ 14).
Reflecting on this message, the friends everywhere soon realized
that they had not properly understood the contents of the Will
and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Shoghi Effendi had already stated that the World Order as
delineated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will “undoubtedly”
contained “manifold mysteries” (BA 8), and that we “must trust
to time, and the guidance of God’s Universal House of Justice,
to obtain a clearer and fuller understanding of its provisions
and implications” (BA 62).
The obligation of the friends was now well-defined. They had
to wait for the “guidance” of the Universal House of Justice,
to elucidate what certainly appeared to be “obscure questions”
(WT 20). The expectations of the believers were fulfilled when, in
response to questions asked, the Universal House of Justice

Elucidations
wrote on 9 March 1965, on 27 May 1966, and on 7 December
1969, three letters (See MUHJ items # 23, 35 & 75 respectively) and
explained for the friends the basic truths underlying the
evolution of the Administrative Order of our Faith, and left
them free to conclude that the passing of the beloved Guardian,
without having appointed a Successor as Guardian and
Authorized Interpreter, was a clear possibility and an
understandable event.
When the English translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas was
published in 1992, the Universal House of Justice had yet
another opportunity to explain the implications of Paragraph
42 of the Most Holy Book. In relation to the Law of Succession
in the Faith, this paragraph stands out as a most significant
and decisive statement. In this paragraph, Bahá’u’lláh clearly
envisages a time when there would be no institution to embody
the functions incumbent upon the Appointed and Authorized
Aghsán (that is to say, a Guardianship). Further, the Universal
House of Justice would not exist at that time and it would not
be propitious to elect that Body. These points are fully covered
in Notes 66 and 67, (pages 196 and 197) of the English text of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Regarding the timing of the election of the Universal House
of Justice we see in its letter mentioned above, dated 9 March
1965, the manner in which Shoghi Effendi foreshadowed the
election of the Universal House of Justice: “The Guardian had
given the Bahá’í World explicit and detailed plans covering the
period until Ridván 1963, the end of the Ten Year Crusade.
From that point onward, unless the Faith were to be
endangered, further divine guidance was essential”. The
rightness of the time was further confirmed by references in
Shoghi Effendi’s letters to the Ten Year Crusade being followed
by other plans under the direction of the Universal House of
Justice. One such reference is the following passage from a
letter addressed to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
British Isles on 25th February 1951, concerning its Two Year
Plan which immediately preceded the Ten Year Crusade:
On the success of this enterprise, unprecedented in its
scope, unique in its character and immense in its
spiritual potentialities, must depend the initiation, at
a later period in the Formative Age of the Faith of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
undertakings embracing within their range all National
Assemblies functioning throughout the Bahá’í World….
undertakings constituting in themselves a prelude to
the launching of worldwide enterprises destined to be
embarked upon, in future epochs of that same Age, by
the Universal House of Justice, that will symbolize the
unity and coordinate and unify the activities of these
National Assemblies. (UD 261)
There can be no doubt that the “undertakings embracing
within their range all National Assemblies functioning
throughout the Bahá’í World” mentioned in the above passage
of the Guardian, certainly refer to the plans that Shoghi
Effendi gave to each of the twelve National Assemblies which he
described as the Generals of the Ten Year Plan.
With the stipulation made in Paragraph 42 of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, as well as with such statements, as quoted above, it
would be, in my opinion, totally untenable to maintain that
Shoghi Effendi was not aware that his passing would occur
some time during the Ten Year Crusade. If, therefore he did not
appoint a second Guardian as his Successor, and if he did not
write a Will and Testament in the traditional way, would it not
be entirely logical to conclude that lack of action in these
matters was a conscious act on his part?
In his personal conversations with pilgrims Shoghi Effendi
was reported to have repeatedly said that his ‘Dispensation’
was like his Will and Testament. The closest statement made by
him in writing, however, hinting at such a conclusion, is a
letter, written on his behalf, dated 10 January 1935 to Dr.
Mühlschlegel, in which he states that his ‘Dispensation’
constitutes “an invaluable supplement” to the Will and
Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as well as to the Book of the
Covenant, which is Bahá’u’lláh’s Will and Testament. (LDG Vol.
1, 65)
Regarding the prophecy of Daniel as it relates to 1963, we
read the following in one of the Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Now concerning the verse in Daniel, the interpretation
whereof thou didst ask, namely “Blessed is he who
cometh unto the thousand three hundred and thirty
five days. …according to this calculation a century will
have elapsed from the dawn of the Sun of Truth, then
will the teachings of God be firmly established upon the
earth, and the Divine Light shall flood the world from

Elucidations
the East even unto the West. Then, on this day, will the
faithful rejoice. (PA 49-50)
Indeed it was in 1963 that the Bahá’í World Community,
under the galvanizing and sustaining motivation of Shoghi
Effendi’s Ten Year Crusade, was enabled to diffuse the Light of
the Faith worldwide, and celebrate not only this victory, but
also the emergence of the Universal House of Justice at the
Bahá’í World Congress in London.
Furthermore, the following two paragraphs might well bear
upon this very theme. They contain an early hint by Shoghi
Effendi on the importance of this very date of 1963, which he
says would witness the “final erection” of the “Edifice” of
God’s Holy Cause:
Ours, dearly-beloved co-workers, is the paramount
duty to continue, with undimmed vision and unabated
zeal, to assist in the final erection of that Edifice the
foundations of which Bahá’u’lláh has laid in our hearts,
to derive added hope and strength from the general
trend of recent events, however dark their immediate
effects, and to pray with unremitting fervor that He
may hasten the approach of the realization of that
Wondrous Vision which constitutes the brightest
emanation of His Mind and the fairest fruit of the
fairest civilization the world has yet seen.
Might
not
the
hundredth
anniversary
of
the
Declaration of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh mark the
inauguration of so vast an era in human history? (WOB
48)
Compatibility of Texts
From the above summary three points clearly emerge:
1. It had been contemplated in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas that there
would be no co-existence between the Guardianship and
the Universal House of Justice.
2. The date for the election of the Universal House of
Justice had to be in 1963, at the end of the Ten Year Plan.
3. It would certainly be reasonable to assume that Shoghi
Effendi was conscious of his impending passing.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
It would be helpful at this point to consider the method
adopted by Bahá’u’lláh in His Kitáb-i-’Ahd regarding the line
of succession. In it He stipulates that Mírzá Muhammad-’Alí is
to succeed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Now, compare that with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s method in the first part of His Will and Testament. In
it He stipulates that Shoghi Effendi is to be succeeded,
generation after generation, by Appointed Aghsán serving as
Guardians. To me there is a similarity of method here, one that
provided a sense of continuity and concealed for a time the
tests that were inevitably to fall on the friends as future events
unfolded. Shoghi Effendi’s mention of “future Guardians” in
his writings could well be, in my opinion, equally understood
as a further application of this same method. All would be
tested in due course as to their faithful adherence to the
Covenant.
Does this similarity of method not remind us of the golden
key that Shoghi Effendi placed in our hands with which to
unlock one of the mysteries of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and
Testament? He pointed out to us that a study of the
authenticated texts of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and those of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá “will reveal the close relationship that exists
between them, as well as the identity of purpose and method
which they inculcate” (WOB 4).
Is this not also a reminder of the warning given by
Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán: “from time immemorial even
unto eternity the Almighty hath tried, and will continue to try,
His servants, so that light may be distinguished from darkness”
(KI 8) and furthermore we read in the same Book: “the divine
Purpose hath decreed that the true should be known from the
false….He hath, therefore, in every season sent down upon
mankind the showers of tests from His realm of glory” (KI 53).
Who Limits the Spheres of Jurisdiction?
In the ‘Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh’ Shoghi Effendi points
out that one of his duties was to provide “the necessary
guidance to define the sphere of the legislative action of its [the
Faith’s] elected representatives” (WOB 148). It is obvious that
the reference here is to the elected members of Local Spiritual
Assemblies,
National
Conventions,
National
Spiritual
Assemblies, as well as of the Universal House of Justice.
This function of the Guardianship was partly discharged
when, under his guidance and direction, the Constitutions of

Elucidations
Local and National Spiritual Assemblies were formulated and
put into effect during his own ministry. What remained was to
determine the boundaries of the work of the Universal House of
Justice. The terms of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
were superlative. He wrote: “Whatsoever they [the Guardian
and the Universal House of Justice] decide is of God” (WT 11).
He further added: “That which this body, [the elected members
of the Universal House of Justice (WT 20)] whether unanimously
or by a majority, doth carry, that is verily the Truth and the
Purpose of God Himself” (WT 19).
To complete his duty as Interpreter of these words in
relation to the work of the Universal House of Justice, Shoghi
Effendi wrote in his ‘Dispensation’ the following:
The interpretation of the Guardian, functioning
within his own sphere, is as authoritative and binding
as the enactments of the International House of
Justice, whose exclusive right and prerogative is to
pronounce upon and deliver the final judgment on such
laws and ordinances as Bahá’u’lláh has not expressly
revealed. Neither can, nor will ever, infringe upon the
sacred and prescribed domain of the other. Neither will
seek to curtail the specific and undoubted authority
with which both have been invested. (WOB 150)
It is highly significant that Shoghi Effendi, while defining
his duty as Guardian to interpret what had been revealed, goes
on to give the assurance to the Community, as well as to the
world, that the Universal House of Justice, when elected, will
never “infringe upon the sacred and prescribed domain” of
interpretation,
which
is
the
exclusive
right
of
the
Guardianship.
This
assurance
was
fully
realized
and
permanently set in place when the Universal House of Justice,
in its Constitution wrote:
The provenance, the authority, the duties, the sphere of
action of the Universal House of Justice all derive from
the Revealed Word of Bahá’u’lláh which, together with
the interpretations and expositions of the Centre of
the Covenant and the Guardian of the Cause… who,
after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is the sole authority in the
interpretation of Bahá’í Scripture…constitute the
binding terms of reference of the Universal House of
Justice and are its bedrock foundation. (CUHJ 4)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
It must be remembered that apart from its vital function as
the Supreme Bahá’í Legislative Body, the Universal House of
Justice is named by Bahá’u’lláh Himself in Paragraph 42 of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as the Central Institution to which the Bahá’í
Community must turn after the termination of the line of the
Aghsán. This is confirmed by the statement made by the
Guardian that the two institutions of the Guardianship and
the Universal House of Justice are the “chosen Successors” of
Bahá’u’lláh and of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (WOB 20). On the basis of these
texts, the Universal House of Justice in its Constitution
describes its own “fundamental object” as the responsibility
“to ensure the continuity of that divinely-appointed authority
which flows from the Source of the Faith” (CUHJ 4), and then
adds the following statement: “There being no successor to
Shoghi Effendi as Guardian of the Cause of God, the Universal
House of Justice is the Head of the Faith and its supreme
institution, to which all must turn” (CUHJ 4). The position of
the Universal House of Justice as Head of the Faith will be
maintained, “until such time” in the words of this
Constitution, “as Almighty God shall reveal His new
Manifestation to Whom will belong all authority and power”
(CUHJ 4).
In light of the above quotations, it becomes clear that in
addition to its legislative authority, the Universal House of
Justice, while it is assured of divine guidance in not infringing
upon the domain of interpretation, is invested with
responsibilities which do and must include such powers and
duties that are incumbent upon the Head of the Faith.
Furthermore it is obvious that the two broad areas of
responsibility of the Universal House of Justice — namely
legislation and headship of the Faith, are as inseparable and
indispensable as were, in the case of Shoghi Effendi, his
responsibilities as Interpreter and Head of the Faith. Thus, if
anyone may venture to state that the sphere of jurisdiction of
the Universal House of Justice is confined to legislation, such
an assumption would clearly be baseless and entirely
unwarranted and unjustified.
It follows therefore that no institution or individual can
correctly determine whether the Guardian or the Universal
House of Justice are, at any given time, within or without their
own respective limits of jurisdiction. This point is confirmed
by the Guardian in one of his letters where this truth is clearly
set forth:

Elucidations
It is not for the individual believers to limit the sphere
of the Guardian’s authority, or to judge when they have
to obey the Guardian and when they are free to reject
his judgment. Such an attitude would evidently lead to
confusion and to schism. The Guardian being
appointed interpreter of the Teachings, it is his
responsibility to state what matters which, affecting
the interests of the Faith, demand on the part of the
believers complete and unqualified obedience to his
instructions. (LG 312)
The principle clearly outlined above by the Guardian applies
equally to the Universal House of Justice, inasmuch as matters
affecting the interests of the Faith on a world-scale are best
judged and determined by the House itself. As indicated above,
Shoghi Effendi’s formal and confident assurance in his
‘Dispensation’ to the Bahá’í s everywhere and to the world at
large, to the effect that the Universal House of Justice will
never transgress its own limits of jurisdiction, should provide
the ultimate safeguard and guarantee, to one and all, that the
foundations on which the structure of the Administrative
Order is resting are firmly set and stable.
Is the Universal House of Justice the Head of a Complete
and Unmutilated World Order?
Let us now consider the contents and implications of a
crucial paragraph in ‘The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh’:
Divorced from the institution of the Guardianship the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh would be mutilated and
permanently deprived of that hereditary principle
which, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written, has been invariably
upheld by the Law of God. ‘In all the Divine
Dispensations,’ He states, in a Tablet addressed to a
follower of the Faith in Persia, ‘the eldest son hath been
given extraordinary distinctions. Even the station of
prophethood hath been his birthright’. Without such
an institution the integrity of the Faith would be
imperiled, and the stability of the entire fabric would
be gravely endangered. Its prestige would suffer, the
means required to enable it to take a long, and
uninterrupted view over a series of generations would
be completely lacking, and the necessary guidance to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
define the sphere of the legislative action of its elected
representatives would be totally withdrawn. (WOB 148)
So the question is, did the ending of the Guardianship in
November 1957 have the negative effects described above, or
did the Cause survive this event complete and undamaged?
Shoghi Effendi definitely knew that the line of the Aghsán
would at some time come to an end. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas openly
contemplates this eventuality in the very paragraph (42) that
anticipates the Institution of the Guardianship. Further,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes no provision in His Will and Testament
for the continuation into the future of the Guardianship in the
event that the line of the Aghsán is extinguished. So it is very
clear that this passage in ‘Dispensation’ cannot be saying that
the Cause will be wounded or damaged unless there is an
unbroken line of living Guardians during the entirety of the
Dispensation. So, how are we to understand the paragraph?
When one looks at the paragraph that immediately follows
it, that is, the one that refers to the paralysis that would ensue
if the World Order were ‘severed’ from the House of Justice, it
is clear that Shoghi Effendi is simply describing, in dramatic
language, the centrality and vital importance of these two
institutions. Each, in turn, is anticipated to perform
indispensable and essential functions.
We therefore need to consider and analyze the various
points Shoghi Effendi has made and relate them to the period
of his ministry, considering what his absence would have
entailed. We set forth the points in brief, followed by
comments:
1. Without the Guardianship, the World Order would be
deprived of the hereditary principle.
COMMENT: The 36 years of the Guardianship
certainly endowed the World Order with this
eminent grace.
2. Without the Guardianship, the World Order would have
been beset by peril and danger.
COMMENT: If ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and
Testament had not installed the Office of the
Guardianship as His immediate Successor, Mírzá
Muhammad-’Alí would have played havoc with the

Elucidations
community, using the Book of the Covenant to
advance his case.
3. Without the Guardianship the prestige of the World
Order would have suffered.
COMMENT: By making the Guardian the “sacred
head” (WT 14) of the House of Justice, and because of
the provision that the Guardian “cannot override the
decisions” of the Universal House of Justice (WOB
150), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá enhanced the prestige of the
Supreme Body (WOB 8).
4. Without the Guardianship the World Order would not
have benefited from Shoghi Effendi’s breadth of vision.
COMMENT: The Guardian’s book ‘God Passes By’
provides an historical panorama covering the first
one hundred years of Bahá’í history. Shoghi Effendi
gives us an invaluable interpretation of this history
and correlates it with the major events of the
century. Thanks also to the Guardian’s World Order
letters, his entrancing vision of the future, and the
steps which would lead to its realization, have been
fully laid out for us.
5. Without the Guardianship the elected institutions of the
Faith, locally, nationally and internationally, would have
been deprived of the Guardian’s guidance.
COMMENT: As already indicated above, Shoghi
Effendi gave his guidance for the formulation of
National and Local Bahá’í Constitutions. As to the
Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, in
view of the provision that he “is debarred from laying
down independently the constitution that must
govern the organized activities of his fellow-
members” (WOB 150), Shoghi Effendi made it clear in
his ‘Dispensation’ that the two areas of authorized
interpretation and binding legislation had been
exclusively reserved to each of the two successive
Successors of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, namely
the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
respectively.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
How Can the Universal House of Justice Determine That
its Enactments do Not Depart from the Spirit of the
Teachings?
The statement in the ‘Dispensation’ which gives rise to this
issue is the following:
the Guardian…cannot override the decision of the
majority of his fellow-members, but is bound to insist
upon a reconsideration by them [members of the
Universal House of Justice] of any enactment he
conscientiously believes to conflict with the meaning
or to depart from the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh’s revealed
utterances. (WOB 150)
To understand adequately the implications of this
statement, we must first consider the meaning or meanings of
the word “enactment” or the word of which it is a derivative,
namely “enact”. According to the Webster dictionary the verb
“enact” is used when a “legal and authoritative act” is
performed. It also implies the act of passing a “bill” or a legal
draft into a law. It is obvious that in the sentence from the
“Dispensation” quoted above, the first meaning is meant,
because of the categorical statement, also in the same sentence,
clearly affirming that when a final decision is taken, the
Guardian “cannot override” or veto such a decision. Thus the
issue of reconsideration is a step to be taken in the process of
arriving at the final decision.
This issue has been dealt with in the Constitution of the
Universal House of Justice. In the absence of the Guardian, the
Universal House of Justice has formally stated that among its
“binding terms of reference” and the elements which constitute
“its bedrock foundation”, are the “interpretations and
expositions” of the Guardian. (CUHJ 4)
Furthermore in a letter dated 27 May 1966 the Universal
House of Justice assures us that “a careful study of the
Writings and interpretations on any subject on which the
House of Justice proposes to legislate always precedes its act
of legislation.” In the same letter the Universal House of
Justice makes this further clear affirmation: “the Universal
House of Justice, itself assured of divine guidance, is well
aware of the absence of the Guardian and will approach all
matters of legislation only when certain of its sphere of

Elucidations
jurisdiction, a sphere which the Guardian confidently
described as ‘clearly defined’”. (MUHJ 85)
In the light of the above quotations, in my view, it should
not be difficult to arrive at the conclusion that Shoghi
Effendi’s statement in the ‘Dispensation’ could well be
understood as a reminder of, and indeed an emphasis on, the
imperative obligation to refer to his interpretations and
expositions prior to any act of legislation. This assurance has
been explicitly given to the Bahá’í World in the statements
quoted above from the writings of the Universal House of
Justice.
Wide Range of Responsibilities of the Office of Head-
ship, as Invested in the Universal House of Justice
Based on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s and Shoghi Effendi’s writings these
responsibilities include the following duties and powers:
1. to safeguard the unity of the community (WOB 148)
2. to resolve all problems which have caused differences (WT
20)
3. to maintain the integrity of the Bahá’í teachings (WOB 148)
4. to elucidate questions that are obscure (WT 20)
5. to maintain the flexibility of the teachings of the Faith
(WOB 148)
6. to promulgate and apply its laws (WOB 20 & 145)
7. to protect its institutions (WOB 20)
8. to adapt it loyally and intelligently to the requirements of
progressive society (WOB 20)
9. to conduct all Bahá’í administrative affairs (WOB 153)
10. to resolve difficult problems and all important and
fundamental questions (WT 14 & BA 47)
11. to create new institutions (CC Vol. 1, 329)
12. to make deductions from the sacred and authorized
writings (CC Vol. 1, 323)
13. to launch and direct teaching plans (CC Vol. 1, 340)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
14. to be the last refuge of a tottering civilization (WOB 89)
15. to consummate the incorruptible inheritance which the
Founders of the Faith have bequeathed to the world (WOB
20)
As the Universal House of Justice is, after the Guardian, the
Central Authority in the Cause, the body unto which “all things
must be referred” (WT 14), it was able to create institutions to
ensure the “discharge of the functions of protection and
propagation” and to provide “for the receipt and disbursement
of the Huqúqu’lláh” (CUHJ 4).
The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice outlines
in five paragraphs what it considers to be “among the powers
and duties with which the Universal House of Justice has been
invested” (CUHJ 5). The contents of these paragraphs, without
any exception, are based on, and have their roots in, Tablets
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as well as letters of
Shoghi Effendi. They deal with the responsibilities of the
Supreme Institution in such matters as preserving the sacred
Texts, defending and protecting the Cause, proclaiming and
propagating its Message, advancing its interests, promoting
universal peace, ushering in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
safeguarding the personal rights, freedom and initiative of
individuals, and promoting the advancement and betterment
of the world. The last three paragraphs also enumerate the
legislative, executive and judicial powers vested in the
institution of the House of Justice.
What does unconditional obedience imply?
Bahá’u’lláh in the thirteenth Glad-Tidings (Bishárát) wrote:
The men of God’s House of Justice have been charged
with the affairs of the people….Inasmuch as for each
day there is a new problem and for every problem an
expedient solution, such affairs should be referred to
the Ministers of the House of Justice that they may act
according to the needs and requirements of the time.
They that, for the sake of God, arise to serve His
Cause, are the recipients of divine inspiration from the
unseen Kingdom. It is incumbent upon all to be
obedient unto them. (TAB 26-27) (This self-same passage is
repeated in the Eighth Ishráq.)

Elucidations
Furthermore in the Eighth Leaf of Paradise we read: “It is
incumbent upon the Trustees of the House of Justice to take
counsel together….God will verily inspire them with whatsoever
He willeth, and He, verily is the Provider, the Omniscient.” (TAB
68)
We note in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament His insistent
call to the friends to turn to the Universal House of Justice,
and obey its directives. We read the following: “the Universal
House of Justice, to be universally elected and established, [is]
under the care and protection of the Abhá Beauty, under the
shelter and unerring guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One
[the Báb]….Whoso rebelleth …against them hath rebelled against
God…., whoso contendeth with them hath contended with
God” (WT 11). “That which this body….doth carry, that is verily
the Truth and the Purpose of God Himself. Whoso doth deviate
therefrom is verily of them that love discord, hath shown forth
malice and turned away from the Lord of the Covenant.” (WT
19-20)
In one of His Tablets ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has furthermore written
the following:
The Supreme House of Justice will take decisions and
establish
laws
through
the
inspiration
and
confirmation of the Holy Spirit, because it is in the
safekeeping and under the shelter and protection of the
Ancient Beauty, and obedience to its decisions is a
bounden
and
essential
duty
and
an
absolute
obligation, and there is no escape for anyone. (MUHJ 85)
To confirm the sense of the above passages we read in Shoghi
Effendi’s ‘Dispensation’, the following affirmation which
corroborates Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements on
the inspiration and divine guidance which surround and
overshadow the decisions of the Universal House of Justice. He
writes: “the members of the Universal House of Justice, …and
not the body of those who either directly or indirectly elect
them, have thus been made the recipients of the divine guidance
which is at once the life-blood and ultimate safeguard of this
Revelation.” (WOB 153)
From these explicit and authoritative statements we should
know of a certainty that when divine inspiration is well-
assured, obedience becomes a spiritual obligation. This theme
is fully discussed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Some Answered
Questions:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Know that infallibility is of two kinds: essential
infallibility and acquired infallibility…. Essential
infallibility is peculiar to the supreme Manifestation,
for it is His essential requirement…. But acquired
infallibility is not a natural necessity; on the contrary,
it is a ray of the bounty of infallibility which shines
from the Sun of Reality….Thus many of the holy
beings….were the mediators of grace between God and
men. If God did not protect them from error, their
error would cause believing souls to fall into error, and
thus the foundations of the Religion of God would be
overturned, which would not be fitting nor worthy of
God…
… For instance, the Universal House of Justice …. will
be under the protection and the unerring guidance of
God….Now the members of the House of Justice have
not, individually, essential infallibility, but the body
of the House of Justice is under the protection and
unerring guidance of God; this is called conferred
infallibility. (SAQ 173)
This statement made by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explicitly and certainly
gives us the assurance that when an individual or institution,
authorized in revealed sacred texts as freed from error, renders
a decision or issues a directive requiring the friends to obey,
the community of the faithful should be confident that such a
decision or directive has been prompted and motivated by
divine inspiration. Should this be otherwise, it would not only
be unbecoming and unbefitting of a just God, but the result
would certainly be the subversion of the very foundations of
God’s Holy Faith.
The friends of course realize that the objectives specified in
the plans and messages of the Universal House of Justice are
designed to help us in our direct teaching work. To the extent
that we adhere to the wishes of the Supreme Body will we be the
recipients of added confirmations and blessings.

Elucidations
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts*
The Universal House of Justice
Your email letter dated 18 June 2001, requesting statistical
information relating to the collection and classification of the
Sacred Texts, which are housed in the Bahá’í World Centre
Archival collection, was received, and we are to reply as
follows:
The Bahá’í International Archives holds significantly more
Tablets and Bahá’í Holy Writings in its collection now than it
did in 1983. For your ease of reference, we provide the
following information as an explanation to the data presented
in this document. The Archival collection held at the World
Centre is divided into three categories, and between these three
groups there are varying degrees of overlap. They are as
follows:
Authenticated items: Originals or reproductions of Tablets
and letters as dispatched to or received by their addressees.
Transcribed items: Secondary copies of Tablets or letters,
copied by scribes of varying degrees of reliability, sometimes
copied from an authenticated item, sometimes copied from
another transcribed item.
Draft copies or Working copies: These include copies
prepared by a scribe/secretary for checking prior to preparing
the final copy, copies kept by the scribe/secretary or by Shoghi
Effendi for later reference.
In light of the information provided above, we are able to
inform you that there are some 7,169 original and photocopies
of original Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 15,815 by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and
17,118 letters of Shoghi Effendi. In addition, there are some
98,000 copies of other such Tablets and letters, many of which
have not as yet been authenticated.

* Response from the Universal House of Justice to an individual.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
With regard to the Writings of the Báb, the Archival
collection holds approximately 135 original Tablets, and 55
photocopies. We are unable to provide you with any figures
for transcribed copies of His Writings since there is not yet a
computer inventory of them.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat

Elucidations
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
The Universal House of Justice
24 April 2008
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
Your email letter dated … has been received by the Universal
House of Justice, which has asked us to respond as follows.
The House of Justice is fully committed to fostering the
development of Bahá’í scholarly activity in all parts of the
Bahá’í world. Through their scholarly endeavours believers are
able to enrich the intellectual life of the Bahá’í community, to
explore new insights into the Bahá’í teachings and their
relevance to the needs of society, and to attract the
investigation of the Faith by thoughtful people from all
backgrounds. Far from being a diversion from the worldwide
effort to advance the process of entry by troops, Bahá’í
scholarship can be a powerful reinforcement to that endeavour
and a valuable source of new enquirers.
The hope of the House of Justice is that, as the Bahá’í
community develops in each country, the concerned National
Spiritual Assembly will encourage those so inclined to embark
on Bahá’í scholarly activities. When the number of believers
involved reaches a sufficient size, an Association for Bahá’í
Studies may well come into being and act as a focus for
support and encouragement; in due course, such an
association may be moved to launch, under the aegis of its
National Spiritual Assembly, a journal by which the findings of
those engaged in this pursuit can be shared with others. Such
associations are generally formed at a national level, although
the situation in Europe is such that transnational associations
have, at this time, been permitted within that continent. In
time the House of Justice will give consideration to whether or
not the objectives of the Faith would best be served by the
formation of some international organization to coordinate

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
the work of the associations and to stimulate the creation of
new ones in other countries and whether an international
journal should be brought into being.
When there are relatively few believers engaged in Bahá’í
scholarly activity in a country, the formation of an
association there is not viable. However, believers from any
part of the world are free to submit papers to Bahá’í journals
being published in other countries or to seek to make
presentations at meetings arranged by the existing associations
elsewhere.
…The individuals having an interest in Bahá’í scholarship are,
of course, free to pursue their own scholarly endeavours and to
submit their conclusions to existing journals in Europe, North
America or elsewhere. They should also be advised to consider
means by which they can participate in the work of existing
associations.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice
ADP
Abdu’l-Bahá. Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy
BA
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages 1922-1932
BP
Compilation. Bahá’í Prayers
BW
World Centre Publications. Bahá’í World, The, volumes I (1925) through
XX (1986-92); new series 1993-2007
BWF
Compilation. Bahá’í World Faith
CUHJ
The Constitution of The Universal House of Justice
CC
Compilation of Compilations volumes I-3. World Centre Publications /
Bahá’í Publications Australia. Vol. 1-2: 1991; Vol. 3: 1993
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947-1957
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh. Gems of Divine Mysteries

GWB
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words
KA
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-ˆqán
KJV
King James Version, The Bible
LDG
Shoghi Effendi. Lights of Divine Guidance
LG
compilation. Lights of Guidance. India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
MBW
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World: 1950-1957
MC
Universal House of Justice and Ruhiyyih Rabbani. Ministry of the Custodians:
An Account of the Stewardship of the Hands of the Cause 1957-63
MF
Abdu’l-Bahá. Memorials of the Faithful
MSEI
Shoghi Effendi. Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent
MUHJ63
Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Universal House of Justice
1963-86: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age
OCF
Bahá’u’lláh. One Common Faith
PA
Shoghi Effendi and Lady Blomfield. The Passing of ‘Abdu’l-Baha
PB
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PM
Bahá’u’lláh. Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace
Q
Qur’án
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, comp. and trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Some Answered
Questions

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SV
Bahá’u’lláh. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TDH
Shoghi Effendi. This Decisive Hour, Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the
North American Bahá’ís 1932-1946
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Traveller’s Narrative, A
UD
Shoghi Effendi. Unfolding Destiny
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Appendices
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Nine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-
baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation and
Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy

Appendices
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí ˆá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-
i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with the
Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden

Appendices
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on
the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan

Appendices
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
English-Language Publications
•
Scripture and Revelation, Moojan Momen (ed.), Oxford,
UK: George Ronald, 1997
•
The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions, Moojan Momen
(ed.), Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 2005.
•
The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia, Iraj Ayman (general ed.), Book One to
Book Ten, 2000-2009.
•
Occasional Papers volume 1: “Images of Christ in the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” by Maryam Afshar. 2004.
•
Occasional Papers volume 2: “Revelation of Unity, Unity of
Revelation,” by Wolfgang A. Klebel. 2009.
Persian-Language Publications

•
Safini-yi ‘Irfán, Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán
Colloquia in Persian, Book One to Book Eleven. 1998-2008.
German-Language Publications
•
Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums: ‘Irfán-Studien zum Bahá’í-
Schrifttum (Collections of the papers presented at the ‘Irfán
Colloquia in German). Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í-Verlag.
Vol. I to Vol. V, 2003-2007.
Irfán publications may be ordered from:
Bahá’í Distribution Service
Bosch Bahá’í School
Bahá’í Verlag
415 Linden Avenue
500 Comstock Lane
Eppsteiner Strasse 89
D-65719
Wilmette, IL 60091-2886
Santa Cruz, CA 95060
Hofheim, Germany
Tel: 847-425-7950
Tel: 831-423-3387
Tel: 49-6192-22921
Fax: 847-425-7951
Fax: 831-423-7564
Fax: 49-6192-22936
bds@usbnc.org
bosch@usbnc.org
office@bahai-verlag.de
www.bahaibookstore.com
www.bosch.org
www.bahai-verlag.de